CHAPTER I

GREEN HILL, June

A new doctor has arrived in Green Hill! Sarah told me so this morning when she
brought in my breakfast. She set the tray down with an agitated thump, and after
her strong arms had raised me a little higher among the pillows, she stepped
back, folded her hands beneath her apron, and fixed me with a portentous eye.
"Now do try and relish your breakfast, Miss Mavis," she coaxed, "there's a good
girl!" An undercurrent of excitement colored her tone. I looked upon her with
suspicion. But I know my Sarah. Like Fate, and the village fire-company, she is
not to be hurried. Very casually, I reached for my glass of milk. Years of lying
comparatively flat on a useless back tend to the development of patience as a
necessity. "What time is it?" I inquired conversationally. "Past nine." I set
the glass aside, and bit reflectively into a crisp triangle of toast. Since I've
become so clever at eating and drinking, there's a sense of adventure about
these commonplace functions which no whole person could ever comprehend. Sarah,
busying herself with details of window-shades and counterpanes, watching me
meanwhile from the corner of her eye, waited until I had turned indifferently to
my pillows again, before making the following terse but thrilling remark. "Your
pink rose-bush's come into blossom, Miss Mavis." Here was news indeed! My
unconcern took unto itself wings and flew away. "Not really!" I cried, "Oh,
Sarah, how perfectly darling of her to waken so early!" Sarah, accustomed to my
extravagant fashion of endowing all growing things with distinct personalities,
nodded gravely. And then, with all the majesty of Jove--if one may picture that
deity as female, fifty, and New England incarnate--she launched her thunderbolt
of Green Hill gossip. "That young doctor--him that was to come from the city to
help Doctor McAllister with his patien's--he's here!" There was more truth than
enunciation in Sarah's neglect of that final "t" in patients. Our village doctor
is long on wisdom, but short of temper. I reached out for the morning paper,
lying on my bedside table, and rustled it in dismissal. "How interesting!" I
murmured, successfully concealing any concern at all. Sarah swooped down upon my
tray and bore it to the door, in a manner which carried conviction. But we can
deceive each other so little, Sarah and I. "Come last night," she volunteered,
"from New York. And every girl in Green Hill is furbishing up her Sunday
clothes, so Sammy said." Sammy, surnamed Simpson, the freckled-faced Mercury who
delivers the milk, and is in close touch with all the divers heart-throbs of
Green Hill, holds a sentimental, if unacknowledged appeal for Sarah. A century
or two ago, Sammy's father, in those days a gay and unencumbered spark, courted
my Sarah, so runs the story, in the public manner of Green Hill. And Sarah,
difficult to believe though it be, showed him no disfavor. There was, however,
an obstacle to eventual union, in the person of Sarah's invalid mother, a
querulous, ninety-pound tyrant. Upon this rock the frail bark of the Simpson
affections shattered. This is of history, the most ancient, but had the far-
reaching result that Sarah, whose lot seems ever cast among the stricken, now
waits on me heart, hand, and foot, while over the Simpson hearthstone another
goddess presides, and rigidly too, if one can judge from the harrassed
expressions of Sammy, Sr., Sammy, Jr., and all the other innumerable Simpson
olive branches. But to return to our muttons--the palpitating girlhood of Green
Hill. "Silly geese!" I commented unkindly. Sarah from the doorway looked as
cryptic as is consistent with the features Nature had given her. "Oh, I don't
know!" she answered with spirit, and an unconscious effect of argot, "In Green
Hill, Miss Mavis, men is scarce!" Here was truth! Mentally I echoed, "They is!"
and Sarah, reading ratification in my silence, achieved a disappearance of my
tray, and returned to the attack. "Sammy says--he was down to the station last
night when the ten-six come in--seems like," she digressed, "he's always hanging
around the station since Rosie Allan's been telegraph operator there--"

"Rosie is a very pretty girl, Sarah," I chided gently. "Pretty is as pretty
does!" said Sarah, in irrefutable self-defense. "Limb, I call her--bold as
brass! But then," she added in her most pleasant tone, "Sammy was never raised
to know better." And she looked at me with that unique light in her eyes which
never fails them of the mention of any Simpson delinquency, however slight.
"Sammy says," she continued, bound to pursue the subject to the bitter end,
"that the new doctor is a likely-looking young fellow, and seems well off." At
this juncture, I opened my paper with an air of finality. "If this stranger in
our midst is, as you infer, young, handsome, and wealthy," I remarked, "why
then, in Heaven's name, has he descended upon Green Hill, Sarah?" I hate
handsome men. They are always so much vainer than women. Sarah, accustomed as
she is to my intemperate habits of speech, regarded me with a somewhat shocked
air. "Sammy says," she quoted--and here the conversational cat leaped from the
bag--"that he come down here because he is suffering from nerves!" The door
closed after her, but her contempt lingered, almost tangibly, in the room; and I
smothered my laughter in the lavender-scented pillows. But Sarah had given me
something to think about. I have known so few men, young ones, that perhaps I am
given to speculating about them even more than the average girl. They're such an
unknown quality. And certainly the one or two who have been escorted to my
presence have not shown to good advantage. The healthy man reacts unfavorably to
invalid feminism. They are bored, or too sympathetic; they speak in whispers, or
in too cheery tones; they shuffle their great feet; and escape, eventually, with
a sigh of relief. And I am impatient of them, of their bulk and their strength,
and the arrogance which is part and parcel of their sex. Perhaps it is because I
am handicapped, circumstantially out of the running, so as to speak, that an
"eligible" male always arouses in me a feeling of antagonism. And yet with not
unremarkable inconsistency, I always wish, wistfully, deep down, that I might
make, sometime, a man friend of my own generation. But I can't. Something in me
shuts doors and bolts them in any strange, masculine face. A breeze stole
delicately through my open window and ruffled my hair, luring my eyes to the
out-of-door world where young Summer goes walking today, clad in blue and green.
Not far off, the hills which give our town its pretty name, rise mistily, like
altars. Just beyond that tall tangle of oak trees, a little river comes singing
from its source. In winter I miss its friendly voice, yet I am more in sympathy
with it then, for ice-bound, its bright limbs fettered, its dancing stilled, it
seems kin to such as I. But for me there will never dawn a springtide, with the
prison keys in her green girdle and rosy hands outstretched to unlock the door.
Year in, year out, my bed is always close to the windows. All of out-doors that
I may see and hear, I must have for my own. I love every glimpse and scent and
sound of it. Only the aggressive shriek of the train at the distant crossing
makes me shrink and shudder. That was the last thing I heard--a whistle at a
crossing--before the day coach which was carrying me home from a happy visit
plunged over the embankment. Eleven years ago! It seems like many centuries. Yet
I remember it as I remember yesterday--that crash before oblivion. I can
remember even the thrill of twelve-year old pride in the dignity of that fifty-
mile journey, made quite alone. It was the beginning of a longer journey, where
the milestones are the years; a journey painful and rebellious, marked with many
stations of weariness, and black tunnels of agony; a journey which, despite all
the loving care that surrounds me, I must make in isolation of body and spirit.
Oh, little blue diary, it is well that I may shut away my moods and my mutiny
between your covers! No one in all this house must be made sadder because of me.
Not father, unfailing playmate, and tender; not Sarah, whose silent affection is
like protecting arms about me. There's a great shaft of sunlight quivering
across what I've just written. Incongruous, somehow. And I'm out of tune with
the June weather and the birds just beyond my windows. I must ask Sarah to bring
me my first rose from my Sleeping Beauty bush. First roses are always the
sweetest--like the kiss of Prince Charming. I wonder what the nervous doctor's
name is--poor Sarah! June paid me a visit this afternoon while I slept. She was
reluctant to waken me, but left me her prettiest card. The first roses from my
bush! They have been happily translated to a vase beside me, as I write. Father
brought them upstairs with him when he came in for tea. "Did you kiss her hands
and tell her how sorry I would be to miss her?" I asked him soberly. Father
looked alarmed. "Whose hands?" he began. "Who has called on us today?" "Mrs.
Withers!" he answered, suppressing a groan. Rudely I laughed. "Surely, Mavis,"
father continued plaintively, "you could never demand that I kiss--"

I laughed again. Mrs. Withers--ugly name, isn't it!--is the wife of our pastor.
She is a good woman, but she possesses little charm. I just touched my roses,
with a cautious finger-tip. "June has been here, you prosaic person," I said.
"Witness these, and then deny it if you can." Father, relieved, leaned back in
my comfortable armchair. At least, I know it _looks_ comfortable. "I did not see
her," he said. "That is, not until I entered this room, and found her wearing my
daughter's most becoming face." Father is so satisfactory! I'm sure I bridled.
"Bring me a mirror, immediately!" I demanded. Father rose obediently to his lean
height, and fumbled among the things on my dresser for the fat silver mirror,
adorned with its charmingly ugly cupids, which had been my mother's. "There,
Miss Vanity!" he said. And while I studied my reflection, he studied me from
under his bushy brows. Finally, in silence, I gave him back the glass. "Well?"
asked father. "Well?" I responded, which was not courteous. "Do you find
yourself prettier than yesterday?" "Oh! Much!" I answered, with conviction.
After all, there are compensations in the possession of a pointed face,
decorated with big dark eyes, and a delightful mouth. My nose has never pleased
me; but always, when I am gloomiest, my hair affords me consolation. Sarah makes
a household pet of it, and cares for it devotedly. There's heaps of it. So much,
that it makes my head ache to wear it piled high. So it generally lies in two
long braids across the sheets. "Father," I asked, "what color is my hair?" He
leaned forward and lifted one of the braids. "Exactly the color of cloudy
amber," he answered. I pondered on this for a time, and then: "That," I said,
"sounds very nice--but improbable." We smiled at one another, but suddenly the
laughter left his eyes, and he bent to kiss my forehead, perhaps to hide his
face. "You grow more lovely every day, Mavis," he said, gravely. Could anything
be sweeter than a father who says all those little, lover things to one? I think
not. I laid my cheek against his hand. He has nice hands, quick to soothe and
caress. Nothing is quite unendurable with father near. "You should be a poet," I
told him. "Sometimes I think you are, instead of a historian. Nothing in the
world can ever make me believe that you write deadly-dull books for deadly-dull
people to read. Do they read them?" I inquired as an afterthought. "Mavis!" he
shook his finger at me, in mock indignation. "Well," I answered truthfully,
"mediaeval history must be dull. I'm sure I can't remember any of it!" Here our
argument, but half commenced, ceased. For father, with an exclamation, plunged
his hands deep into his pockets, and after a time produced a slim, sober volume.
"Here it is!" he cried in triumph. "Here is what?" I asked in some astonishment.
"How you do dash about, father. Your mind turns all sorts of corners. What is it
--mediaeval history?" "Certainly not, minx! Poetry!" "Poetry!" He laid the book
on the bed, and my hands pounced upon it like two white cats on a small brown
mouse. "I've been starving for some!" I announced, and turned the book over to
read the title, _The Lyric Hour by Richard Warren_. "Where," I asked, tucking my
treasure under my pillow, "did you get it?" "It came in the morning mail," he
answered. I looked at him searchingly. "There is," I ventured, "some mystery
about this _Lyric Hour_." Father laughed, and fished once more in his pockets.
"Here is the letter which came with it," he said. I opened the envelope, which
bore the name of father's publisher and good friend, and read:

NEW YORK CITY      June 18th

Dear Carroll:

I'm sending you your delayed proofs, and by way of apology and    distraction,
the volume of verse which has created such a    sensation in literary and
critical circles--those two kingdoms    which occasionally overlap--but are not
always completely allied. I feel certain that you and Mavis will enjoy Richard
Warren. Old    and sedate as I have grown with the years, I must confess that he
has made my pulses quicken and my heart take on something of its    youth again.
With warmest remembrances to you both,

Faithfully yours,      JOHN DENTON

I gave the letter back to father. "It must be some book!" I remarked with awe,
if slangily. Father raised an eyebrow. "Why?" "Mr. Denton--and 'quickened
pulses'?" I quoted with a rising inflection. "Why not?" interrogated my parent.
"A contemporary of mine, and, Mavis, you must admit, an admirer of yours--"

I was flattered into silence, and turned my attention to my roses once more.
Father chewed his pipe stem--a reprehensible habit--and made an announcement.
"We've had another caller today," he said. "You're as bad as Sarah for
concealing things until the eleventh hour," I reproached him. "Who was it?"
"Denton's nephew." This, in Green Hill phraseology, really fetched me. Round-
eyed, I stared. "Didn't know he had one!" I said, somewhat aggrieved. "Who is
he, and what is he doing here?" Father stretched out his long legs, preparatory
to explanation. "It's a long story," he said. "Briefly, this is a prodigal
nephew. There has been some family feud in the Denton clan, but recently done
away with. When the hatchet was buried, Denton got into touch with his late
brother's family, which consists of a wife, and an only son, who is a doctor. He
has just recovered from a slight break-down--overwork, I believe. And Denton
through me arranged to have him come here to recuperate and at the same time to
assist our good friend, McAllister in some of his surgical research." By this
time my mind was putting two and two together and making eight or nine. "Not
Doctor Denton," I asked, "_the_ Doctor Denton?" Father nodded. "Perhaps--" he
began wistfully. But I shook my head. "Please not!" I said. And he left me with
his sentence unspoken. But I knew! We had both read so much of the young surgeon
who had effected wonderful cures in cases similar to mine. It had never occurred
to either of us, at the time, that he might be of John Denton's family. But I
knew that father often wished, out loud, that he might consult with him about
me, deploring the fact that he was in Europe. But for a number of years I have
begged so hard that no more doctors be let loose to probe and pound me--a
process of infinite torture with no results save deeper hopelessness and white
nights, that father promised. So I have been left in peace. Lazily, I wondered
why father had not told me sooner of his discovery and subsequent arrangement
with Doctor Mac. But I had a bad siege of it, a while back, and probably during
that very period the matter had come up. Doubtless, when I had finally struggled
up again from my depths, father, once more lost to the world among his books,
had forgotten. I lay silent, watching a bird seesaw on the vine which clambers
over my window-ledge in friendly fashion. "Long past your bed-time!" I remarked
severely. But it cheeped at me impudently. I wonder what Doctor Denton looks
like. Thin, I fancy, professional, and probably very jumpy. But I cannot condemn
his nerves quite as harshly as I know Sarah does. I have had a speaking
acquaintance with nerves, myself. I meant to indulge in _The Lyric Hour_
tonight. But my little blue friend has claimed all of my time. I will save Mr.
Warren, therefore, for another day. Like icing on a cake. The book lies under my
pillow still, barely peeped at. Perhaps I shall sleep better with that Ship of
Song beneath my cheek. Diary, good night! Twenty-four hours later. Oh, Diary, I
have found him! And I don't know, and care less, whether he is twenty or ninety,
fat or thin, married or single! The only thing in all the world which I am sure
of at present is that he is mine! For I have him locked up between two vellum
doors, from which he shall never escape. He's here--and never in all my life has
anyone so thoroughly belonged to me. I've the heart and brains and beautiful
spirit of him, and all day long his name makes a happy spot in my conscience.
_Richard Warren! Richard Warren!_ I hold the book that he has given to the world
between my hands, in reverence. For all that I have hoped, and dreamed, and
lived, in my shut-in life; all that I have ever wanted to be; all, that in my
secret soul-shrine I have worshipped in God and Nature and Love of Love, is
written down here for me to read and make doubly my own. I don't know who or
what he is, Diary, in the outside world. And it doesn't matter. Nothing matters
but this one little book to which he has set his name. For everything worth
while is here; dust of stars and wine of dreams; essence of youth and joy of
living, given word-form. And yet, these are not words so much as they are music,
and color, and fragrance. I've just been reading and reading, and now I've laid
the book aside, and have been lying here idly, letting broken snatches of purest
beauty drift through my mind. And, for the first time I find myself regretting
the shade of my eyes, for my new companion sings of "grey eyes as pure as God's
first dream of stars." But perhaps it's just that grey lends itself more easily
to poetry than common or garden brown. Diary, I wonder if I have fallen in love
with a book! But what a satisfactory state of heart to be in after all! I can
banish my lover with so little effort, if ever I am not in the mood for him! I
can even cast him into the fire, if he ever bores me! And I am sure that the
most lovelorn maiden on earth must have moments when she would envy that
faculty! And when I finally relent, as all true lovers must, how simple it has
been made for me to buy a new copy of the Beloved! Good night, "sweet gossip,"
as the ladies of Shakespeare's time were wont to say. You're such a comfort! And
you'll not tell, will you, that Richard Warren and all his words lie once again
beneath my pillow? June 21

It's raining. Silver fingers are tapping at my window pane, and father's morning
offering of roses came to me with their darling faces all wet and gleaming. I
hated the weather _hard_ when I woke up, but in my _Lyric Hour_, which holds so
many, many lyric hours for me, there's a little verse about the rain, which
patters through my mind as soothingly as the drops outside. So I've become
almost reconciled to a dull day, devoid of visitors, and with Sarah complaining
of "rheumatics." I shall begin to grumble about them myself soon, for I'm aware
of warnings in my spine which bode no good. I'm too tired to write more, Diary.
July 1

Since last I set pen to your paper, Blue One, I have descended into Sloughs of
Despair. Now, emerged again, I take up my story where I left it. A day or so
after the last time I talked with you, I had an attack, of the sort which has
mercifully been spared me for over a year. It had been coming on, steadily, but
I wasn't going to give in to it--oh, no! So, the first intimation which father
and Sarah had of its arrival was late one night, when a moan that I had been
biting back for an hour tore its way to freedom past my closed lips, and
revealed its presence, surprisingly, in the shape of a scream. Sarah came flying
to my bed, and hard on her heels, father. They gave me such remedies as are
always at hand, and which generally prove friendly. But this time they failed.
My Demon had been in abeyance too long, and was reluctant to loosen his
clutches. Once made free of my flesh, he would listen to no reason. Presently
there came a period of half-consciousness, through which I dimly heard father at
the telephone, calling Dr. McAllister's number. I almost smiled, through the
creeping faintness, to think how annoyed he would profess himself to be, "called
out of bed at this ungodly hour!" and how once arrived, he would toil to help
me. When I opened my eyes again after what seemed years, it was with a vague
sense of amazement that Doctor Mac had grown so young since last I had seen him.
For he was slim, where once he had been inclined to rotundity, and ruddy-brown
where once he had been sparse and grey. Upon my pulse was an unfamiliar hand,
and a strange voice, close to me, was saying quietly. "She's coming round, Mr.
Carroll." Somehow, this calm disposition of me was annoying. "I'm not," I heard
myself contradict weakly. Two steel-blue eyes, set in a lean face, met mine. It
was not a friendly encounter. "Please don't talk," ordered this new Doctor Mac
briefly. Father laid his hand upon my forehead. "Is the pain better, dear?" he
asked, with that break in his voice which always comes when he knows that I am
suffering. I tried to flash triumph into the blue eyes, and responded, "Yes."
Then, as My Demon's jaws took a fresh hold on my spinal column, "Oh--no--!"
There was a low-voiced consultation, and then father said, reassuringly,

"Don't talk, Mavis dear, and lie quiet. Doctor Denton is going to give you
something to relieve you." I felt six years old again, and resentful to find
father going over to the enemy. But I was grateful, that, after all, our own
dear Doctor Mac had not been metamorphosed into an ogre with icicle eyes. As the
tiny, merciful piston went home, I said feebly, with malice aforethought. "Hello
--_Doctor Jumpy_!" And the last thing I saw before I fell asleep was his
startled face. And in my first half-dreams, I found myself repeating,
childishly, "He did jump! He _did_. And I made him!" And that, Dear Diary, was
my informal introduction to the nervous nephew of Mr. John Denton. CHAPTER II

Doctor Denton came in this morning. He has been in every day since that horror-
night, and we preserve an armed neutrality with one another. I had even grown
rather to like him, not for himself so much as for the engaging way his hair
grows, and for the sensitive, spatulate fingers of the born surgeon. But after
his visit of this morning, my little liking has retreated, as those crocuses
which leave warm earth prematurely are sent shuddering into nothingness by the
breath of an inimical frost. Here's what happened. The roses started, and
finished it. My room is quite full of them today; everywhere I look is just a
blur of color. I think that Earth is particularly lavish this season. When
father brought Doctor Denton in, and left us to what he fondly termed a "nice
chat," the following conversation ensued. "Good morning, Miss Carroll!" "Good
morning, Doctor Denton!" After a few professional inquiries as to the state of
health in which the morning had found me, and my satisfactory answers,--silence!
I watched him stride restlessly about my room, until I could stand it no longer.
Then I said briefly,

"Lovely day, isn't it?" Came a growl, which translated I took to signify, "Hot!"
I know now just how water feels, trying to wear away the proverbial stone.
Exhausted by my efforts, I leaned back among my pillows and closed my eyes.
Presently Doctor Denton came, and drew a chair close to the bed. "Your roses are
wonderful," he remarked conversationally. Here was a subject on which I cannot
fail to become eloquent. I opened my eyes. This was a mistake, for in so doing I
met that steel-blue glance which always disconcerts me. "They are," I said, and
let the opening pass. "I'd like to see some there," he continued, very rudely
pointing his finger at my face. I put my hands hastily to my cheeks. "Now," he
announced with satisfaction, "that's more like!" Diary, it _was_ stupid of me to
blush! "You do not admire pallor?" I asked politely. "Certainly not the pallor
of ill-health," was the professional answer. "It may be poetic, but it is hardly
--practical." "You do not admire poetry?" Doctor Denton ceased twirling one of
my loveliest roses between his fingers, and leaned forward to lay it carefully
across my nearest braid. Gravely considering the effect, he replied,

"Not as a steady diet." I slipped my hand under my pillow and closed it down
hard over a certain volume. "I do not suppose that surgery and poetry are
particularly compatible," I volunteered, with indifference. He lifted the rose
from my braid and regarded it _silently_. When he looked up, I was astonished to
see a light in the Alaskan eyes which I never dreamed could live in so cold a
climate. "You're all wrong," he answered; "there's a tremendous amount of poetry
in surgery,--beauty, too, and limitless romance." I didn't know those words were
in his vocabulary. A trifle stirred by his tone, I made a little _moue_ of
scepticism. "Instruments--and white coats--and ether," I was beginning, when he
interrupted me. "And beyond them all," he finished, on a deeper note, "the
poetry of healing!" I fell silent. Somehow that view of things had never
occurred to me. Where one might see poetry, I saw only pain. Perhaps my face
showed something of what I was remembering, for suddenly he rose and leaned over
me. "Let me make you more comfortable," he suggested. And slipping a steady arm
beneath my shoulders--there's more strength concealed in the slim length of him
than one would imagine--he held me closely, while with the other hand he pounded
my pillows and settled them firmly again. Something slid to the floor and lay
there. "Oh!" I said, as he stooped to recover it. I put out my hands, but he was
turning the book over. "Poetry?" he said pleasantly, and raised an eyebrow. I
didn't care much for his tone. "Have you read it?" I asked belligerently. "_The
Lyric Hour_? No. Do you care, then, so much for rhymesters?" "For this one," I
answered, annoyed to confession. "That explains it!" "Explains what?" "The night
you were ill," Doctor Denton went on calmly to reveal, "you called me
'Richard.'" I felt the hot color rise to my cheeks again. "Well?" "Nothing. Only
--my name happens to be Bill." "It would be," I remarked. "Just what do you mean
by that, Miss Carroll?" But I only smiled angelically, and asked, "When do you
expect Doctor McAllister back again, Doctor Denton?" I do not know that my tone
implied all that I felt, but I saw the steel-blue eyes grow very dark, and,

"Thank you!" said Doctor Denton stiffly. I felt somewhat ashamed, and tried to
make amends. "Please read _The Lyric Hour_, Doctor," I urged, in my prettiest
party voice. "You will find it really worth while." The creature is, after all,
occasionally understanding. He smiled forgivingly at me and held out his hand
for the book. But I hadn't meant that. "Oh!" I said, hastily. "Not my copy!" "As
precious as all that?" he asked, putting his rejected hand in his pocket. This I
ignored. "Tell Mr. John Denton to send you out a copy," I suggested. "He sent us
this one." "The devil he did!" I looked my surprise, and my visitor laughed. He
has a very nice laugh, considering. "I beg your pardon, Miss Carroll. I am apt
to be a trifle--," he paused, and considered me narrowly, "eh--jumpy. And I
didn't know my Uncle John went in for ethereal chaps." Ethereal! The word, on
those lips, was an insult! I glared at him, rather conscious that I must look
like a sick kitten. Father came in, providentially. "How is she, Doctor?" he
asked. Which was absurd, as I had reassured him concerning my welfare not two
hours earlier. "Rather scrappy--lots of fight left," answered our guest, rising.
I was speechless. "I think," said Doctor Denton, "we shall have to get her out
of doors." Father and I stared at him. "Why not?" he continued, looking from one
of us to the other. "We'll commence by building her up a bit, and trying massage
for those unused muscles. Then a little later it should be quite easy to carry
her comfortably downstairs and settle her on a cot under the trees for a little
while each day." "McAllister--" began father, doubtfully. "Oh, I'll talk with
him," cut in Doctor Denton cheerfully. "He will be back next week," he added,
turning deliberately to me. I looked grateful. "How perfectly splendid!" I said,
with a ring of real enthusiasm in my voice. "I've missed him so much!" Father
looked mildly surprised at so much fervor, and I am sure the creature concealed
a smile. As he departed with father to "talk things over," Doctor Denton turned
at the door. "Less poetry, Miss Carroll," he admonished, parentally. "That's
what I tell her," said father, surrendering to the foe. "The child reads too
much. It makes her fanciful and--"

"Doesn't take her mind off herself," suggested the doctor, nastily. I wonder,
Diary, what he meant? "We'll take away her books," he went on, "and give her
sunshine and fresh air and green trees, in their place." Against my will I
admitted it would be glorious--the outdoors part of the program. "You see," he
turned to father, "doctors are rather like gardeners. I, for one, am interested
in roses." "Roses?" echoed my parent, who seemed to pass from one stage of
astonishment to the other as the morning progressed. "Roses!" repeated Doctor
Denton, firmly. "There's a particularly pretty white one that I am anxious to
cultivate. I believe with care and sunlight it could be urged to bloom quite
deep pink--permanently." He looked at me as he said this last. Then, with a
polite "Good morning, Miss Carroll!" he left the room. I hate him! But Diary,
wouldn't it be altogether wonderful if we could be taken out-of-doors together?
I wonder what that doctor person did with the flower he stole from my vase?
GREEN HILL      July 3

Diary, I dreamed a horrid dream last night. I dreamed that I stood with Richard
Warren on some high wooded place--in my dreams, Diary, I can always stand--with
my hands close in his. I couldn't see his face, but I knew him, somehow, and his
voice was in my ears, just saying my name, over and over. "_Mavis! Mavis!_" But
as the mist cleared before my eyes, someone said far off, "Ethereal!" and
laughed. And as I looked, I saw, not Richard Warren, Poet and Dreamer of Dreams,
but William Denton, Surgeon and Scoffer. It all sounds so foolish, Diary,
written down, but it was really quite dreadful. Sarah, who must have heard me
call out, for in my dream I wrenched my hands away and screamed, appeared at my
bedside, like a familiar ghost. How I welcomed her, innumerable tightly plaited
braids, and all! Breathe it not in Gath, but in this unpleasant fashion does
Sarah achieve her crinkled morning coiffure! She tucked me in, secured a
flapping shade, forced a potion of hot milk down my unwilling throat, and left
me. So, finally, I slept again, to dream no more. This morning a note came to me
from Mr. Denton. So nice a man to have so wretched a relation! NEW YORK CITY
July 2d

My dear little Mavis:

Your good father is so poor a correspondent that I have struck    his name from
my letter-list. But you are always considerate of a    lonely old man. Therefore
I write to inform him, through you,    that I am leaving this asphalt wilderness
presently, for the    White Mountains. Perhaps when my vacation there draws to a
close,    I may drop down to see you before returning to the 'demnition'
grind. I shall look forward to a pleasant visit with you, and a    quarrelsome
time with your father, to whom, despite his neglect    of me, I beg to be
remembered. I am sending you some books and some exotic fruit, hoping to
tempt your literary and physical palates, respectively. My nephew writes me that
he has seen you. I envy him! But I am    more than sorry, my dear, that your
first encounter should have    taken place under such unfortunate circumstances.
I shall be    grateful to you for any kindness you care to show him, for he
has not had a very happy, albeit successful, career, and he is    far from his
Western home and his people. Remember me to your elderly and amiable handmaiden,
whose beaten    biscuit I recall with such felicity. Write me now and then,
Mavis, and if I can in any way be of    service to you, you have but to command
me. Faithfully and affectionately your friend,      JOHN DENTON

P.S. How did you like _The Lyric Hour_? This afternoon the fruit and books
arrived. Quantities of both. Sammy Simpson, Jr., who adds the arduous duties of
expressman to those of milk purveyor, staggered upstairs under the burden of
them. Into this very room, with his own hands, ably chaperoned by Sarah, he
brought them. We had a little conversation. It ran something like this. Mavis:
"Good afternoon, Sammy!" Sammy: "Afternoon, Miss Mavis!" M----: "How is everyone
at home, Sammy?" S----: "Pretty fair, thank you." M----: "Anything exciting
happen in Green Hill lately, Sammy?" S----: "Nothin' in perticular, Miss Mavis."
Here Sarah made a remark. "Why, Sammy, you told me yourself, not ten minutes
back, that your folks found old man Thomas hanging to the rafters of his own
barn this morning!" Sammy, in deep disgust, "Oh, him!" Sarah, sharply, "Suppose
you think a hanging aint nothing worth mentioning, Sammy!" To which the youth,
defensively,

"Well, it kinder slipped my mind." "Why, Sammy," I here ejaculated, with real
horror, "that's dreadful!" Sammy shifted to his other foot for a change.
"Yes'm," he remarked. "Paw found him. That's the third man," he continued with
satisfaction, "that Paw's cut down. He never did have much luck." Sarah looked
triumphant. I, making a miraculous recovery, inquired,

"I wonder why he did such a thing--Mr. Thomas, I mean?" "Wife druv him,"
volunteered Sammy cheerfully. I tried to appear shocked, but Sarah answered with
bitterness,

"Couldn't stand living with himself any longer, like as not." But Sammy,
ignoring her, turned to me and said with conviction,

"Wimmen, Miss Mavis, is the dickens!" Here the conversation ended. Sammy
departed with a tug of his tow forelock, doubtless a legacy from ancestors who
now sleep quietly across the ocean. Sarah bustled him out of the room, as one
shoos chickens, and I lay back on my pillows and laughed. There is more to
Sammy's melancholy than meets the eye. I seem to see Rosie Allan's fine Yankee
hand in this. However, sooner or later I shall solve the mystery, for all Green
Hill comes, now and again, to this peaceful room. I've peeped into my new books,
and nibbled at something which starts out by acting like a peach and ends up by
becoming an apricot. And now I will write to my Fairy Godfather. For I have a
Great Idea, Diary, which I will not confide to you until it has taken shape.
GREEN HILL      July 4

We've been celebrating today! Even unto firecrackers under my window--I am only
grateful that they were not under my bed! Doctor Denton, who arrived this
morning with Doctor Mac in tow, unbent sufficiently to present me with a small
silk flag. I was coldly sweet to him, but warmly so to his companion. It's nice
to have Doctor Mac at home--language, beetle-brows, and all! He was led into the
room by his younger colleague, and brought to my bedside, with an air of
"Eureka! Behold my handiwork!" Doctor Mac is very much pleased with my
appearance--from a medical standpoint--and before the two of them departed, it
was practically settled that I should begin the massage so that the out-of-doors
campaign might be started. I informed Doctor Denton that I had a letter from his
uncle, to which he remarked. "Didn't know you corresponded!" Curiously enough,
the news appeared to annoy him. Diary, here is the letter which went to the
White Mountains today. May your covers turn red if ever you divulge it! GREEN
HILL      July 4th

Dear Mr. Denton:

First of all, a thousand thanks for your letter, the books, and    the fruit.
But how can you prate of 'fruit' in so commonplace a    fashion, and then shower
me with works of art, full of delicious    mystery? Sarah says she fears I shall
never be satisfied with    Green Hill fare again. I believe she has grounds. The
books are    most welcome. I've been peering at Wells, and peeking at
Bennett, and holding my breath over the Barrie plays. I shall    gorge myself on
the printed page during the next few weeks. The    dearest of all is an old
friend who comes to me in a new dress. How in the world did you remember my
passion for _Alice_, and her    unchanging _Wonderland_? My own copy is worn and
dog-eared. But    this _Alice_ is fresh and smiling--the illustrations are too
quaint--and I love her already. Thanks, and again, thanks! Yes, Doctor Denton
has become a frequent visitor at the Carroll    Cottage. Father likes him very
much and they have lengthy    arguments in the study, evenings. Sometimes a
detached word or    the scent of a pipe drifts up to me through the open door,
and,    occasionally, the two come and sit with me awhile. It was a great
surprise to me to discover your nephew in our new doctor. One    would never
dream that you belonged together. I am sure that father is glad to have some one
to play with. There is no question of being 'kind.' At all events, Doctor
Denton does not appear to me a lonely person. On the contrary. _The Lyric Hour_
and I are intimates. I have never had a book    mean so much to me, not even
_Alice_, who keeps me alive. I    wonder if you know the author of these
exquisite verses? Please,    if you do, do not tell me anything about him, but--
do you think I    might write to him? I should like to tell him of the pleasure
he    has given me, and I should like to tell him through you. I'd    rather he
did not know my name. This may sound very foolish, as I    know that writers
have many letters from the public, but we    shut-in people have moods. I would
love to get to know him a    little, on paper. Do you think he would mind?
Somehow, from his    book, I feel he might understand. Father wouldn't care, I
am sure. The Queen can do no wrong! So if    you have no objection to playing
postman, nothing remains for me    save to select a new pen and commence my
letter. But I will not    do that until I hear from you. All in this house send
love, except Sarah, who, I am sure, would    not think it quite proper. But she
would tender her respectful    regards to you, did she know I was writing.
Gratefully and affectionately,      MAVIS CARROLL

And now, Diary, I have set the wheels revolving and what the next White Mountain
post will bring forth, I know not. GREEN HILL      July 5

Diary, I am afflicted with the morning-after sensation. I wish I had not written
to Mr. Denton. What will he think of me? And yet, it seems almost justifiable,
after all. For surely I am quite bed-ridden enough not to have my impulses
questioned or to be accused of a sentimental, ulterior motive. And it is
certainly patent to the most out-and-out sceptic that I shall have to get all my
Romance vicariously. It's a nice day. Peter-who-lives-next-door came in this
morning to display an infinitesimal, bandaged thumb. He "sat on a firecracker,"
he said, which seems to have had an odd reaction. Peter has been so busy growing
up of late that every time he hurtles into my quiet room I am convinced that I
can see him sprout. He has a cupboard love for Sarah, but I think that his
affection for me is simon-pure. Little boys are awfully dear. I have a
proprietary interest in Peter. The night he was born I watched the lights of the
house next door until my eyes closed of themselves. And ever since he was a
round, big-eyed baby, he has had the freedom of this house. Today, he sat upon
my bed and informed me that he was "goin' visitin'." I gather that his mother,
Mrs. Goodrich, has a school friend who is spending the summer some forty miles
away, at a small hotel. I asked Peter if he were eager to go. "And leave me?" I
asked plaintively. "I'll be home soon," answered Peter, evasively. "An' Aunt
Lily's awful nice--but awful old--as old as Mother," added the ungallant child.
Peter is seven. His pretty mother is twenty-eight! I envy Mrs. Goodrich very
much. I envy her Peter with a passion almost pain; and now I find myself envying
her a school friend! Girls, young women, are almost as strange to me as men.
Those I know in Green Hill are charming creatures and very sweet to me. They
come to me with their knitting, their sewing, their love affairs. But a
community of interests is not ours. As they chatter on, I can only wonder
wistfully what it must be like to golf and swim, ride and play tennis, picnic
and dance; to do all the "every day" things which they take so much for granted.
Dr. Denton came in today to see how I had recovered from "the Fourth," and, his
call coinciding with the tail-end of Peter's visit, the two, who had hitherto
had but a "bowing acquaintance," as the doctor put it, became instantly the best
of friends. I wish I liked John Denton's nephew better. I am forced to agree
with father that he has many splendid qualities. But only my mind agrees. Once
or twice, when father has been particularly expansive on the subject, I have
caught him looking at me in a puzzled fashion, and have realized that my tone
has been about as enthusiastic as a Yale adherent when Harvard is making a goal.
(Yes, Diary, I read the papers and ask quite intelligent questions!) When Dr.
Denton is the subject in question between my father and me I am polite, very
just, but unemotional. He arouses in me a feeling of rebellion and plain
"cussedness." Perhaps it is a case of "Dr. Fell." I do not know, for until
recently Dr. Fell has always seemed a rather maligned and misunderstood
character to me. But not now. And yet, digging further in the soil of
spontaneous antagonism, I am forced to confess that my dislike is deeper and
even more illogically rooted. It is not pleasant to meet a strange young man,
when one is flat on one's ridiculous back, with no personality other than the
ugly, ignominious one of pain. Let us be frank, Diary. I am irritated to be
looked upon as an "interesting case." It hurts my pride, it wounds my vanity, it
affronts me. This is not a pretty confession, but, after all, was I not intended
for other uses than that one? It is small comfort to consider that my "history"
is tabulated and filed in many an imposing medical office, and that one
misguided wretch once wrote an article about me for the _Medical World_. Other
girls have pleasanter publicity to look back upon; thrilling scrap-books of
clippings from local papers, little prosaic bits of paper that despite the bored
phraseology of a reporter are just so many shining feathers from the wings of
Romance. They run something like this: "Miss Ella Smith has returned to
college." "Miss Ella Smith was the hostess at a very charming dinner dance last
evening in her residence on Elm Avenue. This affair, which marked the debut of
one of Green Hill's most popular members of the younger set, was etc., etc."
"The announcement of the engagement of Miss Ella Smith to Howard Anderson, son
of the president of the Washington Park Bank, was made yesterday at a luncheon
given for Miss Ella Smith by Mrs. Arthur Jones." And then, Diary, after half a
column for the wedding and the "Voice that Breathed o'er Eden" accompaniment,
perhaps some day, this: "Born, to Mr. and Mrs. Howard Anderson (nee Ella Smith),
a son, Howard Anderson, Junior." And after that, of course, the white-bound
_Baby Book_. My mother kept one of me. Absurd pictures are in it, a lock of
yellow hair, and all sorts of dear, foolish comments. Even my first word is
written there, with, I know, a vainglorious pen. The word is not startling. It
is "birdie." Father has often told me that mother declared this initial effort
of speech a direct sign of abnormal brilliancy on my part, as the dictionary
meaning of my christian name is "European song thrush or throstle." I wonder if
even a throstle would not get out of tune were it sentenced to life-long
captivity? I am terribly restless of late. I think that both father and Sarah
have noticed it. But they have said nothing. In winter, I lie almost dormant,
but Spring breeds a fever in my blood, and Summer sets me frantic with the
longing to be up and out and away. But of all the hours, I love the one, toward
twilight, before sunset, when the light is long and level, and a mellow golden.
A breeze springs up and whispers gently in the trees, and I come nearest of all
then to a sense of peace and quietude. This hour is, I think, of all summer
hours the one most significant of her. In winter, one does not find the day
entering imperceptibly into that period of lovely transition; in winter, one has
daylight and then darkness. Bedtime, Diary. The stars are thick tonight, and I
can see the fireflies on the grass below my window, in pretty competition with
the high, still light in the sky. Good-night! If I have been cross and
rebellious in this writing, forgive me. It's only in books that a shut-in is
angelic all the time! And even if I do write down my revolts and teacup
revolutions in a book, I am still very far from being a heroine! I wonder--will
Mr. Denton consent to the alien role of go-between and accomplice? CHAPTER III

SOME LETTERS

WOODLAND HOUSE      SUMMIT, N. H.

Dear little Mavis:

Of course I know Richard Warren. He is a very nice person to    know! And he
will be more than glad to hear from you, I am sure. By all means write to him. I
wish I were twenty-odd and a Poet,    instead of fifty-even and a Publisher!
However, I shall take the    second best, and play go-between. Whenever you
wish, I will further your schemes and preserve your    incognito, you Designing
Person! Affectionately      JOHN DENTON

July 6th

FROM A ROSE-GREY      BOWER      July 7th

To you--    A Maker of Songs:

With your _Lyric Hour_ close beside me, and a picture of you in    my
imagination, I can feel little hesitancy in writing to tell    you, as best I
can, all that your poems have meant to me. I am,    briefly, a "shut-in," in
whose whole limited life books must    necessarily play a greater part than in
the active world of the    well person. Not long since, through Mr. John Denton,
your verses came to me. Straight into my hands they came, and from there into my
heart. They are singing there now. And for this, my little note carries    you
real gratitude. It must go to you, however, without name or    sign. I'd rather
that you stayed a little "unreal." For when    names and addresses begin to play
their part, then convention    steps in to lay forbidding hands on the lips of
friendly    impulse,--even here in my castle, from which the outside world is
almost banished, and which I shall never leave. Thank you more than I can say
for the loveliness of your songs. Very sincerely yours,      ONE DISTANT READER

NEW YORK CITY      July 12th

Dear Stranger-Lady:

I have your letter, and have asked our mutual friend to forward    my reply to
you. I am so glad that you did not allow Mrs. Grundy    to enter that rose-grey
bower of yours, which sounds so    attractive. I am sure she would find the
color scheme most    unbecoming! I am so glad that you care for my book. It is
my first, and I    have a weakness for it. I am afraid I do not sing for the
many,    but for the few. Time was, when I had hoped to be minstrel for    all
the world, but that is past now. And I am content with what I    do, if it can
call forth letters like yours. Will you not write me again, and tell me as much
of yourself as    you care to? Or am I asking too much? I hope not, for your
letter    has given me such pleasure. It has made a little happy spot for    me
along the way, an oasis in that Desert of Loneliness which all    of us know so
well. It is hard to think of you as really "shut-in." Somehow, I make a
different mental picture of you. If you will let me write to you, you will have
to bear with    _hearing_ me tell of my dreams. But I am sure you could not
treat them other than gently. And perhaps we can make for each    other a little
rendezvous of pen and ink, where we may meet and    talk awhile. Yours very
gratefully,      RICHARD WARREN

FROM A SECLUDED SPOT      July 14th

Dear and Friendly Unknown:

Thank you for your letter. I shall be glad to share my quiet days    with you.
You ask me about myself. Well, first of all, there's Father; and second, there
is Sarah. In order to rightly visualize Father, you must imagine all the
strength and gentleness in the world, made man. And to be truly    aware of
Sarah, you must picture an aging fairy, who brings you    just what you want on
trays and things, before you know you want    them; who creeps in to tuck you up
before you realize you are    about to grow chilly. Father is big and grey and
brown; Sarah is    like New England, just before spring; very reticent, and most
tender beneath a wintry exterior. She has been nurse and servant,    mother and
friend to me, since that day when, after the doctors    had agreed that there
was no open door through which I might    escape into health again, they brought
me back here to live out    the rest of my life. And of course no category would
be complete    without a mention of Peter, who is quite the most delightful
lover that ever a girl could have. Then there's our cottage, a small red
edifice, rather    weather-beaten. It is close to the hills; I think that they
care    for it, in so friendly a manner do they regard its very windows. In
spring it is very intimate with the apple blossoms, which toss    rosy sprays
into the crystal air to break about its feet. In    summer, as now, the roses
pour white and red and golden wine on    the doorstep. In autumn, the gayest
leaves come drifting by to    settle on the verandah, and even the snow seems to
like it, so    high and white does it heap itself about the doors. Inside, the
very best of the house is in my room. Father calls it    the "Heart of the
Home." If it is that, it beats in grey and    rose, and lovely old blue. Grey in
the walls and floor, and rose    and blue in the cretonnes of curtains and
mahogany furniture. All    day long I lie in a four-poster bed, which belonged
to a great,    great, grandmamma, and is stationed in a big bay-window. I can
look out over the hills, which in fancy I am always climbing. Many people come
to see me here. They bring me their troubles and    their joys, and I suffer and
am glad with them, vicariously. One    by one you shall meet them as our
correspondence continues. For    indeed, I hope it will. But with just one
condition. Never by    hook or crook or dark wiles, must you procure my name
from our    "postman." For then the spell will break, and I will vanish like
the apparitions in the fairy stories. That blot is where I stopped to look at an
absurd cow which    wandered slowly across my line of vision, over the road and
into    the orchard. Such an amusing and defiant tail! So melancholy an    eye!
It has been raining this morning, and now there is palest    sunlight through
veils of mist. Somewhere, a bird is being very    happy about something. Through
an open window comes the fragrance    of growing, rain-wet things. Surely you,
city-bound, miss half of    life. I hear Sarah approaching. That means luncheon.
So I must leave    you, Poet. This is such a charming game, solitaire with an
unseen    partner, that I am loath to lay aside the cards. Poet, good afternoon!
Yours loquaciously,      ME

NEW YORK CITY      July 19th

Enchanted Princess:

Your letters travel so long a route to reach me that I tremble    lest sometime
they should grow weary and stop off permanently, on    the way. Will you not
send them direct to the Yale Club? I am in    and out of town all week, and will
always go there for my mail. I, of course, shall have to stick to the White
Mountain    itinerary. But your word is law. I was very glad to hear about the
King and the Lady-in-Waiting    and the Castle. Yet it is yourself I want a pen-
sketch of. On    second thoughts, perhaps, unconsciously, you are making it for
me. I live--but no, it would never do to tell you! I shall have to    move in
order to provide a poet with a less prosaic setting. I am    desolate in having
no Sarah to anticipate my wants; and--no    Father. However, tucked away, where
no one can steal her from me,    I possess a Mother! A mother with tiny hands
and feet, and the    prettiest red hair in the world. This is too bewildering a
shade    for a Mother's hair to flaunt! She has added charm to beauty by
acquiring somewhere merry blue eyes, with an Irish twinkle in    them. And a
kindly angel has set these jewels deftly in the    sweetest face. You would love
her, I know, and I am generously    willing to share her with you if in return I
may claim a bit of    your Father. Between us we could manage to own a perfectly
good    pair of parents, couldn't we? But for the sake of my peace of mind, will
you translate,    interpret, or explain "Peter" to me? Do tell me about your
visitors! Do they come to see you--I beg    your pardon! I mean, do gallant
knights ever gallop up to the    drawbridge on coal-black chargers, and blow
lustily on a silver    trumpet, at the postern gate--whatever that is!--for
admission? And does a certain lady ever graciously bid her varlets give    them
entrance? Tell me this, and what you read, and what you    think. And if you
will whisper to me, just how many years have    left you lovelier than the year
before, I will confess to you    that I am Way-Past-Thirty! Yours,      RICHARD
WARREN

THE CASTLE      July 26th

Dear Merlin:

He was an aged wizard, you know. Your letter has been here for several days, but
I have not been    very well. Now I'm all-better, and the answer goes to you.
First of all, you may indeed have a small interest in Father. This is how much
you tempt me with your description of your    Mother. Will you give her my love?
Mother must be a very precious    person. Mine I can hardly remember. But I know
she was sweet and    good and beautiful. It doesn't seem possible that anyone's
mother    could be anything else. My Mother was very young when she died,    and
although the lack of her is sometimes very hard to bear, I am    grateful always
that her eyes closed on the sight of me, sturdy,    laughing, sound! Not as I am
now, a bit of human wreckage. I    wonder if she knows? There are moments before
dawn when I seem to    feel her lean over me, and her tears are on my face. But
I know    that God is merciful, and because of this I think the Dear Dead    may
not see us. Else, how were it Heaven? Is it very hard to be Way-Past-Thirty? I
am twenty-three--a great    old age, if one stops to consider it. Of course I
have "Gentlemen Guests"! I am not too old for that! There's Father, every day;
and occasionally Sammy Simpson. Then    there is Peter, who lives next door. He
would be flattered at    your interest. Peter is seven, and the proud possessor
of a    place where teeth once were. I regret to state that he employs    this
aperture for an immortal, if not conventional purpose. "It    is quite easy," he
once earnestly confided to me, "once you get    the nick of it!" Peter, his
mother, and his baby sister, are away    on a visit, and I miss my little
friend. I suppose my doctor comes under the category of Male Visitor. He    is
sixty, very crusty, but human and dear. There's another    Medical Person, too.
But he doesn't count. Good-by for a little, Merlin,      Yours,      THE
PRINCESS

NEW YORK CITY      July 29th

Your Royal Delightfulness:

I am so sorry you've not been well. I can't bear to think that    you should
suffer pain. What plucky creatures women are! I wonder    that they are created
from the same clay as great, blundering,    hulks of masculinity! When my letter
remained so long unanswered, I began to fear that    it had never experienced
the joy of coming to you. I began to    worry lest I had offended and alienated
you. Indeed, Princess, I    began to think all manner of dreadful things! This
must never    happen again, for I am sure I have a brand-new crop of grey hair!
Mind now! Your visiting list is interesting. Sammy Simpson I approve, if    only
for the euphony of his name. Peter, and your grouchy    physician, have charm.
But who is the doctor who 'does not    count'? I am always suspicious of a man
when a girl says so    venomous a thing about him! Do tell me! Doctors are all
very    well, in their way, and sometimes I think we songsters try to    doctor,
too, just a bit. It is of course not healing of broken    bones, of wounds and
fevers, that we try to bring the world, but    of broken hearts, and the wounds
of every day, of fevers of too    much earth and restlessness. I do not suppose
we can hope to    cure, but perhaps we can provide, occasionally, a draught
which    drugs for a little into Forgetfulness. No, Princess, I do not think
that the Dead can see us. At least,    not with the eyes of earth. But they
watch over us, perhaps, with    a clearer sight than we may know, and see beyond
today and beyond    the flesh, and are content, knowing with God that all things
work    toward eventual Good. Now that we have brought the family into it,
please remember me    admiringly to your father. Yours,      RICHARD WARREN

THE CASTLE      July 31st

Dear Minstrel Man:

Please, do you love _Alice_? I have been spending such a pleasant    hour with
her. Peter, returned from his travels, arrived this    morning with my breakfast
tray, and your letter. After we had    exhausted the raptures of welcome, and
Peter, his enunciation    somewhat impaired by toast, had told me all there is
to know    about 'Auntie Perkins,' 'Uncle Perkins,' and the 'Fat Boarder,'    he
demanded a 'story.' So, as my own inventive faculties seem a    little out of
repair,--I took him with me, a willing captive, to    the Rabbit Hole, and
beyond. Yes, I am sure you love _Alice_,    Poet. No Poet could be entirely
grown-up. I wish you could see my    new edition of the House where she lives.
It is charming, and    came to me from our Fairy-Godfather-Postman. Last night I
saw a shooting star. I suppose it was heralding    August, the month of these
flying flames. As a child I always    thought that the Angels were shoeing the
horses which drew the    chariot of the sun, and that these were stray sparks
from the    Heavenly Anvil. I do not know that I was so very wrong, after
all! Everything beautiful must be a spark of the Plan which is    being forged
in that Divine Smithy. Do you wish on shooting stars? I do! Always the same
wish. All my    life, I've played at just such silly games. Perhaps we all of us
do in different ways. A thousand years ago, when a certain great    poet was a
child, did ever he refrain from stepping on cracks, as    he went whistling to
school? If one is careful, you know, and    reaches one's destination in
triumph, it may mean much. A new    hair-ribbon, absolution for a tiny sin, rice
pudding for supper. But perhaps you were never naughty. I am sure you didn't
wear    hair-ribbons, and--but this is hard to believe--possibly you    don't
like rice pudding! You couldn't resist Sarah's, I am sure! I--I wish on hay
wagons. I adore odd numbers. Particularly do I    revel in thirteen. At the same
time, my defiance ends there. I    cannot spill salt without a shudder, and
first stars and baby    moons are burdened with my desires. I am sure that every
wish    would come true, and the veriest pebble turn an infallible    talisman
in my hand, if only I believed enough. There's a sunset behaving riotously
outside. I am sure that it    appears much more sedate in New York! Whimsically
yours,      H.R.H. ME

P.S. I forgot to answer your questions about the Other Doctor. He    is thirty-
two, rather tall, and most particularly exasperating. M.

NEW YORK CITY      August 4th

Dear Princess:

If Denton may send you books, so may I. In this mail three    friends of mine go
to you: _A Romance of the Nursery_, _Paul and    Fiametta_, and Grahame's
_Golden Age_. Please be kind to them. I    rather think you must be like
Fiametta,--a slim, brown child,    with oval face, and curious, parti-colored
hair dark as the    oak-settle in the hall--that the sunshine burnished into
brightness. I dreamed of you last night, an adventurous dream. Some day I
will write you about it. Not now! With the books I am sending you a talisman. I
hope it will bring    you all you wish. Of course, I do not know, but I have
told it to    try. There is a secret hidden at its heart. But I do not believe
that you can find it out all by yourself. That would take a Poet! Now write me,
and tell me how egotistical I am! But remember,    after all, I am nothing more
or less than Mere Man. I hope you will care for your added charm, for the books,
and a    little for

Your friend,      RICHARD WARREN

NEW YORK CITY      August 7th

Dear Lady:

Have I in any way offended you? I have had no word from you since    the 31st. I
am praying that you are not angry because I allowed    myself the selfish
pleasure of adding to your library. Or is it    the talisman? I hope not! You
see, it was not just a purchased    thing. It belonged to my father. But I would
far rather than you were vexed with me than too ill    to write. Anxiously,
RICHARD WARREN

THE CASTLE      August 7th

How very rude you must think me, dear friend! For several days    have passed,
and I have not yet thanked you for the books, and    for the curiously carven
piece of jade, which you assure me will    bring me my heart's desire. It lies
close in my left hand as I    write. I like the cool touch of it. And what a
beautiful color it    is, like the very heart of Summer! But you should not have
robbed    yourself of anything so precious. The books are delightful. I wonder
if one reads one's self into    every book! Your choice of friends is faultless.
I have fallen    desperately in love with "Paul," already. But "Fiametta" and I
are not alike. For where she is brown, I am white, and where her    face is
oval, mine is pointed, and where her hair is    oak-and-gold, mine is just
yellow-and-brown! And you know    perfectly well that I am no longer ten. Except
perhaps when Peter    urges me to be. And now I have a Something-Lovely to share
with you! Also, it is    the main reason why I have not let you hear from me
before. In a    few days I'm to be carried downstairs--and out under the trees,
where an ingenious cot awaits my occupancy. For several days I    have been
preparing. The Disagreeable Doctor insists, and Father    and our own Medicine
Man aid and abet him. There's been a large    Scandinavian Lady here every day.
She possesses strong hands and    a cloudy accent. And I am informed that she is
to be the Witch    who will remove certain fetters from my circulation. I have
wished on my talisman that she may be successful. You see, I    can't be very
sanguine about it, for they tried all manner of    things of this sort long ago,
and to no avail. But, O Poet, if    ever I get out under the trees again! Once
there, how my spirit    will strain at the leash of my body, to be off and away,
over the    hills! I've not told you before of our breath-taking plan, lest it
not    come true! What did you dream, Poet, and will you not tell me the Secret?
Gratefully yours,      AN IMPATIENT INVALID

P.S. Paul, Fiametta, Alice, and other of your intimates, wish to    be
affectionately remembered. And Peter wants to know if you are    by chance a
Scout. It is the ambition of his life to attain the    age of twelve and his
modern knighthood. NEW YORK CITY      August 9th

Kind Princess:

Your letter of the seventh has reached me. It must have crossed    mine. I began
to feel happier directly I had written. So I must    have known that you were
writing too! Thank you for absolving me! Your news is good news indeed! But I
must know who is to have the    joy of carrying you out into the sunshine, which
is your    birthright. The Old Unpleasant Doctor? The Young and even More
Unpleasant Doctor? I think perhaps you had better arrange to have your father
play    magician! I have had a letter from my mother. There's a message for you
in    it. Obediently, I quote:

"Please tell the Unknown Lady that I have received her love, and      am taking
care of it. I wish I could run in to visit with her in      that rose-grey room.
But it wouldn't do at all! Not with my hair! Tell her she must have it done over
in blues and browns before I      can put in an appearance. The years, thank
God, whatever else      they take, still leave me my vanity! Give the Princess
my love,      and ask her if rose-and-grey bedsocks would become her feet. Size,
too, please." There's more to it, only if I should quote further you'd grow
aware    how much I have written her about you, and just what I have said. And
that would never do. But you can see for yourself how well brought up    I am.
Confiding in my maternal parent! Did you know the verses were    dedicated to
her? No! I will not tell you my dream, nor what the Talisman is hiding from
you. If I did, you would lose all interest, for I should no longer be    a Man
of Mystery! Will you tell an egotistical male just which verse most pleases you?
And of course you will let me hear directly you leave the Castle? Yours
RICHARD WARREN

Please congratulate Peter for me on his aspirations. Tell him that    although
hoary beyond belief, I too have always yearned to be a    Scout--a good one! R.
W.

THE CASTLE      August 15th

Monster! How dare you have secrets? Is that not Woman's prerogative? I    will
not answer any of your questions today, nor, indeed, write    to you at all.
Instead, I will write to your Mother:

Yours indifferently,      HER ROYAL HAUGHTINESS

(Enclosure)

Dear Mother of the Poet:

Your son has written me your message. It is lovely of you to    understand. And
you _do_ understand, do you not, just how much    this pleasant pen-and-ink
friendship means to me in my restricted    world, bound as it is by walls, north
and south, east and west. The bedsocks sound beautiful. I have some severe gray
ones which    always make me feel very plain. But Sarah, who fashioned them,
has little imagination. It is dear of you to want to knit for    me, and when
the cold nights come, I shall welcome your gift! About size three, I should say.
Mr. Warren writes me that _The Lyric Hour_ is dedicated to you. I    have turned
to the page and read it with new eyes. "To the    Dearest of All." And I am sure
that the poem which is my favorite    is your own. It is the one which begins

For this, the patience of your Love,        The pride which gives me wings.
Dearest, my gratitude.... If only I could say it in verse, what a thankful
little poem    would go to you now! But I can only sign myself,

VERY MUCH YOUR DEBTOR

NEW YORK CITY      August 16th

Cruel Princess! My head is in the dust! Such an uncomfortable place for it, too!
Reluctantly, I have forwarded to my mother the letter which    should have been
mine. I have read it, every word! Surely that    snippy little note, in which
you call me--me, a perfect    stranger--names! cannot be considered a real
letter! On second    thoughts, the wildest flight of fancy could never claim
that your    enclosure was intended for me. However, if I cannot knit, I can
write poems for you. There are some on my desk now. But I will    not send them
to you yet. They are very shy. How is Peter? Yours despondently,      RICHARD
WARREN

P.S. What little feet you have! UNDER-THE-TREES      August 22d

Do I not write you from an incredible address, my friend? Yesterday, the Event
took place. It was my Red Letter Day,    illuminated with gold. Early in the
afternoon, I was carried out    of the house, with comparatively little
discomfort, on a most    ingenious stretcher, by Father and the Very Young
Doctor. My dear    old Medicine Man was erect in the vanguard, sternly
repressing    his excitement; while Sarah, visibly jarred out of her usual
self, brought up the rear in a flutter of apron strings and    ejaculated
warnings. We must have made an imposing procession. As    long as I live--and I
am beginning to hope that it will be for    half a century or more--I shall
never forget my first sense,    after eleven years, of being out in the open.
Oh, I've had my    windows wide to the four winds, of course, and sunlight
across my    counterpane and pillows. But how could that be the same? I would
have written you, but only one hour of Freedom was granted me. The Family and
the Medical Profession had rigged and ready for    me, between the two biggest,
most friendly trees on the lawn, a    comfy and substantial hammock, cushion-
flanked. And so, for that    hour, I lay and looked and looked, over the hills
and across the    valleys, and right into our own garden, which riots in bloom
these August days. I must confess that the disagreeable and    youthful doctor
is an understanding person. After the first    fifteen minutes had passed in
handshaking and congratulations and    solicitude, he marshalled my companions
and led them away,    leaving me alone, in that heavenly air, with the green
trees    singing all about me. I shall always feel more kindly toward him    for
that strategic move. But however did the Creature know that    even dear Father
was a little superfluous? Will you tell your little Mother of my good fortune? I
know you    both will be glad for me, but I can't believe anyone can quite
grasp my happiness, and my gratitude. Except perhaps, a life    prisoner who
goes, unexpectedly, free....

By the way, I had hardly been reluctantly settled in the house    again, before
Father rushed out and wired that amiable    go-between, our mutual friend John
Denton. He is back in New York    again, as no doubt you know, and a return
message came from him    today, announcing that he will be with us in person on
Friday, in    order to "celebrate and to see the miracle with his own eyes."
Isn't that nice? And won't your ears burn, distant Poet! This is Monday. Sky-
blue Monday. By Friday, perhaps, I may be    allowed to spend the whole
afternoon in my Green Playground. Your friend, and so happily,

THE PRINCESS

NEW YORK      August 24th

Princess! Your letter is here, and so elated me that I put a black cover    over
my chattering typewriter--it's _just_ like a parrot, you    know,--and I must
occasionally convince it, by artificial means,    that it is night--and left my
cave dwelling for the day, in order    to fully share your holiday sense. And
when I returned, it was    not alone. For what do you think? Right in the wilds
of Manhattan    I found Somebody who fairly begged to be sent to you! He goes to
you by Mr. John Denton, and by the time this reaches you I hope    he will feel
himself very much at home. And I hope, too, that you    will care for his
companionship. His name is, appropriately,    Wigglesworth. Please report to me
on his arrival and subsequent    behavior. Lucky dog! Yours,      RICHARD WARREN

CHAPTER IV

MIRACLES AND MISCHIEF

August 21

DIARY, I'M OUT OF DOORS! August 28

Diary, you're not to scold. I know I've not honored you with so much as an
exclamation point since my very first out-of-doors entry. But Mr. John Denton
has been and gone--and Wigglesworth is here to stay! Let me see how it all
happened. Friday last, at exactly three, Sarah arrayed me as a lily of the field
in a glorified turquoise and mauve negligee. There were even mauve-and-gold
pompomed slippers on my worthless feet, and my newly washed hair was piled high
and transfixed with my Mother's tortoise-shell Spanish comb. It was thus
festively garbed that Father and Doctor Bill--by which name he shall henceforth
be known, as some slight concession to his wizardry--settled me happily under my
particular trees, there to await Mr. Denton's arrival. Sarah, at my insistence,
smuggled a mirror into my hand and sleeve, and when I heard the smooth purr of
the Denton motor, far up the road, I took one little peek. For if I am not
allowed to be just an atom vain, what virtue is there in charming color schemes
and frothing chiffons? Certainly, the negligee is distractingly pretty, and I am
proud of Father's dress instinct. And something or other had brought the
faintest tinge of color to my cheeks, the shadow of a sparkle to my eyes. I was
hoping that no one would detect me as I lay and admired myself. But the Doctor
Bill person did, of course. He has eyes all over his head, that man! And
promptly, he settled a lovely rainbow cushion behind my head, remarking very
quietly,

"Perhaps this will heighten the effect, Miss Carroll! Poor Uncle John!" I could
have killed him! As it was, Diary, although I almost blush to confess it, I--
Well, as his disgustingly capable hand slid past my cheek, I turned my head,
ever so little, and, quite delicately, I _bit_! Not hard, but in an extremely
ladylike manner. There was no occasion for his rude exclamation, and the
alarming brick-red which he proceeded to turn. Happily for us both, for I was
torn between insincere apology and laughter, Mr. Denton arrived, engrossing his
nephew's attention and my own. As usual he was accompanied by half a dozen
baskets of fruit and half a library shelf of the latest, lightest books. Best of
all, he brought his own rotund self--and Wigglesworth! I was prepared for
something by Richard Warren's letter, which had come to me Friday morning. But
not for this delicious bunch of black-satin, French bull puppy. For Wigglesworth
is the acme, the ultimate perfection of dogdom. When, accompanied by gasps from
all assembled, he leaped at me out of the chauffeur's restraining arms, I gave a
perfectly healthy shriek, and clutched him, chiffons notwithstanding. "Where did
you get him, Denton?" asked Father, vainly endeavoring to part us. "I didn't get
him," answered Mr. Denton, smiling. "He was wished on me by an unknown admirer
of Mavis." Father extricated Wigglesworth, and holding him firmly--he has been
well named--read aloud, from the silver and leather collar which adorned his
fascinating neck, "Wigglesworth." Then, looking closer, added, "What's this?
'Property of H.R.H.'?" I am afraid I looked guilty. Dr. Denton whistled, and
stepped nearer the initials in question, or, shall I say, the questionable
initials? I was annoyed to see in how friendly a spirit Wigglesworth received
the condescending medical hand upon his quivering ears. Father is anything but
slow. And I have long since let him into the secret of my romantic
correspondence. "So that's it," he began. And heaven alone knows what he might
have added had I not held up an imploring hand. Father, well-trained, subsided.
But I didn't quite like the little crease between his brows. It was Mr. Denton,
bless him, who saved the situation. "Take me up to the house, Carroll," he said.
"I have half an acre of Connecticut soil on my person." And off they went, arm
in arm, with Mr. Denton casting a reassuring look at me over his shoulder. Alone
with Dr. Bill and the frantic Wigglesworth, "Well," I said, "isn't he
wonderful?" "Who?" asked the obtuse creature. I pointed to the puppy, chasing
his tail with verve. "Very," he answered drily. "Do you realize, Miss Carroll,
that you almost sat up?" "When?" I shouted, very rudely, and quite disbelieving.
"About five minutes ago, when the dog jumped into your hammock." "But," I
insisted childishly, "I haven't been able to sit up all by myself since...."

"I know," he interrupted, "It's what you _have_ done, not what you haven't, that
is the point. Try again." Half crying from excitement, I tried. But it was no
use, and I sank back, helpless and hysterical. "You see," I said sorrowfully.
"Yes." He was looking at me out of those steel-blue eyes. "We're not going to
give up," he said. "But now you must be taken back into the house again. You're
tired." And no amount of pleading or denial could bend his inflexible will.
Wigglesworth came prancing into my room, just as the Doctor was leaving. "You
haven't said how adorable he is," I said, coaxing my new toy to the bed.
"Adorable!" he repeated, emphatically. But, Diary-dear, the Doctor wasn't
looking at the _dog_! QUITE AT HOME      August 30th

Dear Poet:

By now Mr. Denton has brought you my incoherent note of thanks    for the
benison of Wigglesworth. Every day I thank you more. He    is the dearest little
friend one could imagine or wish for. I    have taught him to bark loudly when I
say your name, and I hope    to bring him to an appreciation of poetry, by
selected readings! Next week, sometime, I am to have my promised lawn fete to
introduce the countryside to the new member of our household. Even Sarah has
succumbed. I heard her talking something    suspiciously like baby-talk to him
this morning, when she came in    with my tray and observed Wiggles regarding
her brightly and    wagging all over, from his basket at the foot of my bed. And
Father is a willing captive of his charms, even luring him from    me on long,
companionable walks. But I believe that he is jealous    of you because he has
never thought of getting me a dog. I have    had birds and goldfish and even an
Angora kitten which lived but    to run away. But never since childhood a real
live dog of my own. Mr. Denton must have worked some magic with Father that he
has so    inexplicably allowed me to accept so valuable a gift from--a
stranger? But no, I cannot call you that! I regret to report that Wigglesworth
has conceived an adoration    for the doctor. The one of no consequence, I mean.
I cannot    understand it, but there seems to be a natural affinity between
the two. Later, I must write you all the things, or, anyway, almost all,
which Mr. Denton said about you. For of course we had a little    session behind
closed doors, and I asked the poor man questions    until his grey head rang.
Aren't you curious? But before I repeat    to you what was, of course, told to
me in strictest confidence, I    must ask you _if those things are true_.
Wigglesworth sends his love. He is beside my bed, this minute, on    the floor,
holding up one paw in greeting. Very gratefully yours,      WIGGLESWORTH'S SLAVE

GREEN HILL      September 5

Dear Diary, I'm sorry that I neglect you so. But you see, with friends calling
every day to behold me, royally at home out of doors, and with a week's
preparation for my "Come one, come all" tea, which took place yesterday
afternoon, and with almost daily letters from Richard Warren to answer--I've so
many now that they make far too bulky a book of you and so I have them tied up
with ribbon, under my pillow--and with Peter's recent heroic attempt to drink
gasoline, and Wigglesworth's brilliant development as a bloodhound--well, I have
had but little time for you, Blue Book. Today, Father is out and Sarah busy
below stairs. It is five o'clock of a golden September afternoon, and I am
alone, and ready to record the events of the past week. Suppose we begin with
Peter, who lives next door, as you very well know, and who is an active and
ambitious and altogether charming seven-year old. It seems, Diary, that Peter
has, during the summer, become hopelessly enamored of Jimmy Simpson, the ten-
year old brother of Sammy, a feckless towhead, tanned as a saddle and twice as
tough! From my windows, and more recently also from the nearer vantage point of
my hammock, I have observed the progress of their friendship, dating from the
early days of summer when Jimmy condescended to aid his older brother in the
morning delivery of the Simpson milk. Lately, Jimmy has been seen displaying his
ragged blue overalls about the lawn adjoining ours. I have heard, too, blood-
curdling shrieks and dire groans which I take to portend that Peter has more
than once inveigled Jimmy into his own favorite and histrionic pastime of
"Injuns and Tigers." Once, Jimmy in his role of scalper became slightly too
realistic, and Peter, bursting through the hedge which separates the Goodrich
property from ours, fled to me for protection. With his curly head on my breast,
I turned against the aggressor. "Jimmy Simpson," I cried indignantly, "aren't
you ashamed to frighten a boy younger than yourself? Don't you know that isn't
manly?" Jimmy, engaging, brazen, and blue-eyed, stubbed one bare toe against the
grass. "Honest, Miss Mavis," he defended himself firmly, "I didn't hurt him
none. He's a _baby_, he is!" he concluded, with a positively vicious glance at
the back of Peter's head. "I'm not!" shouted the accused, rising up in honest
wrath. "Y'are," repeated Jimmy. "Baby an' telltale." Here Peter, to my infinite
delight, squared two small brown fists, and disengaging himself from my
restraining hands, advanced belligerently upon his idol. "You Jimmy," said
Peter. "You take that back--quick!" I swear I saw a gleam of admiration in the
Simpson eye. "Yes," I begged hastily, "do take it back, Jimmy." Jimmy shifted
uneasily upon his capacious feet. "Well," he began uncertainly. And then a
wholly friendly smile irradiated his freckled face. "I was only funning, Peter,"
he said generously. I breathed again. Peter dropped his hands to his sides and
said happily, "Got any cookies for us, Mavis?" I rang my silver bell for Sarah,
and presently she appeared from the kitchen, greeted Jimmy in none too friendly
accents, and disappearing into her domain returned again with a heaped plate of
crisp tan cookies and three glasses of lemonade. "There," said Sarah,
grudgingly, "you young limbs!" She looked at my two small friends as she spoke,
but I am afraid she included me in her remark. This incident served to show
Jimmy the mettle of my seven year old neighbor. It was by way of a delicate
tribute to Peter that he was asked, on the following day, to be one of six
competitors in a foot race which, starting from his own gate, was to end at the
cross roads some five hundred yards distant. Just before the start he came over
and exhibited himself to me, clad in vest and drawers, with sneakers on his
little feet and a huge red 5 decorating his visibly inflated chest. Solemnly, I
shook his hand and wished him well. Then I lay back in my hammock to await the
result of the race. Half an hour later, Peter, very red in the face, very hot,
and manfully trying to suppress his tears, appeared through the gap in the
hedge, with Jimmy in close attendance. "He won!" said Peter, disconsolately,
pointing a dusty forefinger at his companion. "But Pete came in second," hastily
put in the victor, standing at the foot of my swinging couch. "I--I wanted to
win," announced Peter, the uncomforted. Then, seeing my eyes fixed in affection
and condolence on him, he gave one loud frantic gulp and came into my arms.
"But, Peter darling," I, said to the one small red ear I could see, "you must
remember that you are only seven if you _are_ big for your age, and all the
other boys are much older, aren't they, Jimmy?" I asked this with my most
appealing look over Peter's bowed head toward the Simpson scion. "Yes, Miss
Mavis, ma'am," corroborated Jimmie loudly. "An' Pete, he done awful good to come
in second. Why, Josh Watkins was in the race too, and he's eleven an' a terrible
swift runner." "You see?" I said to the Ear. Peter raised his head and thrust
his grimy fists into his eyes. "It's all right," he said bravely, "only...."

"Never mind, dear," I begged, "next time you'll come in first, won't he, Jimmy?"
"Sure!" agreed Jimmy heartily. And Peter, content with the confidence of his
vanquisher, presently made off with him, saying earnestly, "But Jimmy, what
makes you go so fast?" Two days later, swinging lazily between my trees and
reading _The Lyric Hour_ to Wiggles, who listened attentively and with cocked,
inquiring ears, I was horrified to see Mrs. Goodrich hurtle herself through the
hedge, followed by Loretta, her black cook, both of them wringing their hands--
Loretta, I swear, almost as white as her mistress--and both demanding,

"_Have_ you seen Peter?" "Why, no," I answered, "not today. Why?" Sarah, her
sixth sense telling her that something was wrong, appeared simultaneously at the
foot of my hammock. "Oh, Mavis," said Peter's pretty mother, "he's lost! He's
been gone two hours, and we've been everywhere!" Loretta, her apron over her
kinky head, rocked to and fro. I looked at Sarah. "Have you seen him?" I asked,
my heart standing very still. "No, Miss Mavis." Except for the sound of
Loretta's noisy weeping, we were quite quiet. "_The Black Pond!_" said Mrs.
Goodrich, in a whisper. "Don't!" said Sarah and I together. For the Black Pond,
Diary, up the road, is a wicked sheet of water, depthless and sinister. I have
never cursed my helplessness as I did then. "Perhaps Jimmy Simpson ..." I began.
But Mrs. Goodrich interrupted me. "Loretta has been to the Simpsons', Mavis.
Jimmy is off with Sammy somewhere. No one has seen or heard of Peter since this
morning. And we have not seen him since luncheon." "Where's Father?" I asked,
looking at Sarah. "Somewhere's with Doctor Denton," she answered. And as she did
so, a gay whistle reached me from the direction of our gate. "Perhaps that's
Father now." I said hopefully. But it was only Doctor Bill, hatless, coatless,
swinging up the path and cutting across to us. "Miss Carroll," he said smiling,
"your father asked me to tell you ..." and then, "Why, what's the matter?" He
looked from one to the other, and it was Sarah who answered. "It's Peter,
Doctor. He's lost." "Lost! Nonsense. He couldn't get lost here. Every one in
Green Hill knows the little chap. Where have you looked?" he asked Mrs.
Goodrich. "Everywhere. And telephoned every house for miles. His father is in
town, you know. Oh...." she broke off incoherently, "I can never forgive myself
--my baby--"

The doctor's hand was on her, quieting, soothing. "Mustn't break down, Mrs.
Goodrich. Suppose you sit here for a bit with Miss Carroll and get your breath.
We'll find the boy, won't we, Wiggles?" The dog jumped at the sound of his name
in the beloved voice, and began chasing his tail in an ecstasy of showing off.
Dr. Denton beckoned Sarah, spoke to her in a low voice, and I heard her answer,
"Yes sir," before she left the group and went toward the house, taking Loretta
with her. "Who saw him last?" asked the doctor cheerfully, sitting down with
Wiggles on his knee. "Michel, our chauffeur. Peter was with him in the barn
right after lunch." "And where is Michel now?" "He went with several of the men
on the place to search," said Mrs. Goodrich. "I think--they didn't tell me, but
I think they mean to drag the pond--" She went to pieces there. But it was only
for a moment, for Sarah appeared again, with a glass of something. Dr. Benton
took it from her. "Drink this," he said quietly, his hand on Mrs. Goodrich's
shoulder. Watching him, I suddenly knew that it would be all right; that Peter
was not really lost, but only mislaid; that we would all be spared a cruel and
terrible sorrow. He seemed to read my mind, for he nodded at me and said,
smiling, "That's better, Miss Carroll." Sometimes I think that the man is really
a magician. It was perhaps ten minutes later that Michel appeared through the
hedge. Mrs. Goodrich, rather dangerously calm, I thought, got to her feet.
"Well?" she breathed. The chauffeur shook his head. "No trace, ma'am. The boys
are still looking...."

"The Black Pond...?" she asked, in a whisper, one hand at her throat. "They're
down there now." "Ah!" She was at Dr. Denton's side now, her hands on his arm.
"Please help us." Her eyes sought his. "I'm going to do my best," he answered.
"Michel, did Peter say anything to you in the barn about going out to play?" The
Irishman's face corrugated in an effort to remember. "No, doctor, sor. Not that
I mind. He came out, the lad, to ask me what makes cars go fast." "What?" It was
I who spoke. The foot race of two days before flashed suddenly into my mind, and
the last thing I had heard Peter say, "But Jimmy, what makes you go so fast?"
"What did you tell him?" I asked eagerly. "Well," Michel scratched his red head,
"I told him the gasoline, Miss Mavis, just to keep him quiet." In a word I told
the others about the race and Peter's disappointment. "You don't suppose," I
finished, hesitating, "that he tried to...."

"Drink gasoline?" concluded Dr. Benton thoughtfully. We all looked at Michel.
"Well," he said slowly, "seems to me that I did see him foolin' around the tank.
But I was busy, and when I looked up again, he was gone." "I seen him runnin',"
interposed Loretta suddenly. "Runnin' down toward the gate. I remember now!"
"Gasoline!" said Peter's mother pitifully, "Would ... would it _kill_ him,
Doctor?" The doctor laughed outright. "Not by a long shot," he answered
cheerfully. "And if he did take a drink of it, I'll wager it wasn't a very long
drink. Now, Mrs. Goodrich, you and Loretta go home, and get some water heated,
and fetch out a pot of mustard. I'm off with Wiggles to find the young athlete."
And that's all, Diary, except that they did find him. It was Wiggles, really,
who discovered him in a deserted barn half a mile up the road, sleeping
peacefully and smelling to high heaven of the gas. Home they brought him, and it
must go on record that though mustard and warm water had no effect whatsoever
upon that cast iron little stomach, every time Peter coughed Dr. Denton swears
that the gasoline fumes nearly knocked him over! "Did you really drink it,
sweetheart?" asked his mother just before she tucked him in bed. "Course,"
answered Peter, wide-eyed. "Mike said it made the cars go fast, so I tried it. I
didn't like it much," he confessed, "but golly, how I ran! I wish Jimmy could
have seen me!" And on that, Peter fell asleep. Diary, I am nearly asleep too.
Won't Sarah scold if she catches me! So I will postpone till tomorrow my account
of the Lawn Tea--and--the Utterly New Man imminent in our midst! Now, aren't you
curious? CHAPTER V

The Very Next Day

I was so tired last night, Diary, that I couldn't sleep, and Sarah blames you!
She has just said, sternly, "No more writing, Miss Mavis," and vanished from the
room. Out you come, from under my pillow, in lawless defiance of the mandate.
For it's raining and dull, and I can't go out of doors, and so I must have
something to occupy me, must I not? But isn't it perfectly wonderful that the
rain should deprive me of something? For, it was only a very short time ago that
rain or sunshine meant very little to me, aside from aesthetic pleasure, and
shut or open windows as the case might be! Now for a description of the Lawn
Fete! It was an early affair; three o'clock, to be exact. And very young
September put on her very gayest appearance for me. Father and Sarah, Dr. Bill
and Dr. Mac, constituted themselves a Committee on Decoration and Refreshments,
and as a consequence we had a lawn gay with wicker chairs, hammocks, cushions,
tables, flags, and flowers; and a very important table loaded with sandwiches,
tiny cakes, bonbons, and all manner of cool drinkables. And--then came the
crowds! I do believe everyone in Green Hill turned out, from Sammy and his
Rosie-of-the-Telegraph (I wonder what happened to the messages during that
afternoon? Never mind! No one would have been home to receive them! ), to Peter
and his small friends and old Granny Wallace, who drove up in a dilapidated
buggy, and wore a new black bonnet for the occasion. I wore--and this will
interest you--the mauve and turquoise negligee, with various additions. One was
a bunch of the loveliest, glowingest orchids you have ever seen, which was
brought to me by Mr. John Denton, who made a flying half-hour's return trip for
the express purpose, he said, of kissing my hands and delivering the flowers,
which he assured me came from the donor of Wiggles. A card with the orchids
read, "To match a delightful costume." So Mr. Denton, the villain, has been
talking! Under my laces, I wore Richard Warren's jade lucky-piece, and in honor
of the occasion I decorated Wiggles, much to his disgust, with a huge purple
bow. It was very becoming to his lively and brunette beauty, as all who saw him
will attest. It was a dear afternoon. Everyone was so happy for me. They fairly
overwhelmed me with good wishes and affectionate, optimistic prophecies. My two
medicos kept a very stern guard over me. It seemed as if I couldn't get rid of
one or the other for more than a moment at a time. But I had Dr. Mac in a
perfectly beautiful rage by accusing him of trying to steal the Scandinavian
heart of Hildeborg, my massive masseuse. Oh yes, she was there too, marvellously
gotten up, her yellow head very much in the foreground and her big voice booming
out at the most inopportune moments in more than the most inopportune remarks,
thereby greatly endangering the preservation of gravity in those present. Her
public advice to Dr. Mac, along lines of reduction, was extremely exhilarating!
We had music, rendered slightly off key, but with all the good will in the
world, by the Green Hill Musical Four, consisting of a Simpson, a Watkins, and
the Jones twins, who performed respectively upon a cornet, a violin, a banjo,
and a mouth-organ. It was, Diary, the very last word in successful parties. Only
one thing occurred to cast any shadow over a wonderful day. And, of all people
selected by an unkind Fate to sully my happiness, it was Peter who, to mix
metaphors somewhat, cast the first stone. In the presence of at least six
villagers, including Granny Wallace, the town gossip, he regarded my frivolity
of a lace and ribbon cap, and asked, as solemnly as a mouth full to capacity
with cake would permit, "Mavis, _how_ do you set your cap?" "How do I what?" I
asked in all innocence, one hand to my headgear. "Set it," he repeated. "Sally
says that Adeline says that you are setting your cap for Doctor Denton!"
Adeline, Diary, is Sally's sister, and Dr. Denton's cook. Several in the group
about me laughed, and Granny Wallace's ears grew visibly in length. "I can't
imagine what you mean, Peterkins," I answered with well-assumed carelessness,
and turned to talk volubly with Mrs. Goodrich, who was adding to the gaiety by
saying audibly, "Hush, Peter!" But Peter was not to be silenced. "Sally says,"
he protested, in his clear little voice, "that Adeline says she told doctor
Denton about it, your cap, you know, and that he laughed out loud and said you
could for all of him!" "What's that about Doctor Denton?" asked that individual,
suddenly coming up quietly behind the group. Talk about bombshells! Despite Mrs.
Goodrich's frantic attempt to hush her young hopeful, Peter, his hand in Doctor
Denton's, obligingly repeated his story. "An'," he concluded, turning to me
wistfully, "please, Mavis, won't you set it for me? I'd like to see how you do
it!" Amid an awestruck silence, Doctor Denton swung Peter, who squealed with
delight, up and up to his broad shoulder, and said, laughing but a little red,

"Nonsense, old chap, Miss Carroll won't set her cap for you for--well, about
twenty years, more or less. But isn't it a pretty cap?" With a wicked laugh he
turned and strode off, Peter clinging to his shock of dark hair and asking very
loudly, "But does she do it like hens do, Doctor Uncle?" I haven't the remotest
idea what happened after that. I vaguely remember Granny Wallace hurrying and
cackling off, and the other members of the group trying to compose their
features and to re-order their conversation. That Mrs. Goodrich, before she
left, bent over me and whispered, "Mavis dear, I'm _so_ sorry!" helped matters,
as far as I was concerned, not one whit. By the same evening, I am certain that
the story was all over Green Hill. Even Sarah said something to me, before I
went to bed.... Somehow, I should have thought my helplessness would have
protected me a little....

After my guests had gone, Doctor Denton appeared on the scene. "MacAllister and
I will carry you up to your room now, Miss Carroll," he said cheerily. I felt
very tired, very cross, and behaved, I'm afraid, like a schoolgirl. "If you'll
get Doctor Mac and Father...."

He went quite white. "Very well," he said stiffly, and turned away. I did not
see him again that day, or for several days thereafter. I wonder if he really
said that I "could for all of him?" NEW YORK CITY      September 11th

Contrary Princess! Do you think it kind of Your Royal Benevolence to write me
the    most charming note in the world to thank me for my flowers, and    then
to almost ruin it by a postscript, a scolding--dare I say,    nagging--
postscript, in which you sternly forbid me to give    myself pleasure and send
you "anything more, ever"! You are    an--an Indian _Receiver_, that's what you
are! And I refuse to    have any dealings with your postscript! I will separate
it    carefully from the rest of the letter, and consign it to candle    flame.
I am glad you enjoyed your lawn party. Sorry, though, that    anything should
have happened during your At Home day to disturb    you. Although you do not
tell me what it was, I have put two and    two together, made a hundred and six,
and deducted that some    member of my blundering and heavy-footed sex stepped
upon your    sensibilities. But I am sure you have forgiven him by    now--
although far be it from me to hold any brief for an unknown    and hated rival!
Please, may I come to your next party? I am sure my mother would    be willing
to chaperone me. I forwarded her your last note; it    was addressed to her and
I did not dare keep it. But I read it    (yes, I did) and I do not notice that
you scolded her about those    rose-grey bed socks! Indeed, you seemed very glad
to have them. She has been fretting, I know, that they were not finished
sooner, but she was called away, as no doubt she told you in her    letter, by
an illness in the family. My respects to Wiggles. I wonder if he is entirely
cognizant of    his good fortune? I have told you once that everything John
Denton says of me is    false, unless it is particularly pleasant. And then it
hardly    does me justice. Now, after my repeated demands, will you tell me
what he said? Yours very truly,      RICHARD WARREN

P.S. I have found more in the business form of signature than I    had dreamed
existed. Let me repeat it another way,

Very truly--yours,      R. W.

UNDER-THE-TREES      September 14th

Dear and Caviling Poet:

You deserved to be scolded. But we will say no more about it. And    I have
decided to relent and tell you what Mr. John Denton said. He said

That you were shy

That you were very blonde

That you were very impractical

That you were very generous

That you were an incorrigible dreamer

And that he thought you were in love! What have you to reply to these six counts
of his indictment? Curiously yours,      THE PRINCESS

NEW YORK CITY      September 17th

Dear Portia:

Lies! All counts of the indictment to be immediately    quashed--save the very
last! RICHARD WARREN

GREEN HILL      September 19

Diary, I have a two-line letter from Richard Warren which I am afraid to answer.
And it's all my fault! CHAPTER VI

Revelations and Results

GREEN HILL      September 20

The New Young Man has arrived in our village. An embarrassment of riches! He is
a college friend of that Doctor Person, a painter and a poet as well! I have
graciously given my consent that he be brought to call. I wonder what he looks
like? Not like his name, I hope, which is Penny! Father just came upstairs, and
asked me if I would be ready to see Dr. Denton in fifteen minutes. He looked
quite funny when he said it, and seemed so ill at ease. I can't imagine....
Well, Diary, although the Doctor doesn't deserve it, I fancy I shall call Sarah
and tell her to get me the rose-and-grey bed jacket which is so becoming--to my
room! Three Hours Later

Diary, it's not possible! I can't believe it! I've been here half an hour alone,
trying to realize all that it will mean to me, and trying to collect my
thoughts. Fifteen minutes to the second after Father spoke to me about this
impending and oddly formal visit of the Doctor's, he ushered that gentleman into
the room, placed a low chair for him by the bed, and then, taking my hands, said
very gravely, "Mavis, Dr. Denton wants to talk to you for a little while. He has
something which he is very anxious to persuade you to do. I have told him that,
without your consent, it is impossible. You know that I will never force you to
anything. But will you listen to him, dear, and for all our sakes try to say
'Yes'?" As if he had to plead with me, my father, for whom I would do anything
in the world! Since the day I was brought home, broken, I have never seen my
Father so moved. More out of nervousness than anything else, I said, "Daddy, it
sounds like a proposal!" The minute I said it I was sorry--and glad. For
although Father laughed, Dr. Denton looked perfectly furious! It must be painful
to turn the color he does--like a--a chameleon. Then Father kissed me. Under his
breath I heard him say, "God bless my Mavis!" and in a moment I was alone with
the enemy. The steel-blue eyes regarded me for a full moment, and then, almost
sternly, he spoke. "Miss Carroll," he said, "with your permission, and with your
help, without which we can do nothing, we are going to ask you to make a series
of efforts: first, to sit erect unaided; then, to stand; and, by slow degrees,
to walk." There was something so confident in his tone! Perhaps he might have
gone on, but I flung out both hands to him, and he waited. "Doctor!" I cried,
"Doctor--it isn't possible! I have tried! They made me try at first, and it
nearly killed me. Don't make me," I begged childishly; "don't make me go through
all that horror again!" "There will be no horror," he said deliberately. "There
will be pain--yes--but comparatively slight. All through the summer I have
watched your case. Little by little we have stimulated the unused muscles, as
you have gained in vitality. At the time following your accident, it was
naturally torture to you to be forced to submit to the hands of doctors and
nurses. But eleven years have gone by, and I am convinced, and have convinced
both our good friend MacAllister and your father, that the injury to your back
has long since healed, and that nothing remains but the inflexibility of the
muscles and, if I may term it such, a type of mental paralysis." "You mean ..."
I began, not yet believing. "I mean," he interrupted, "that your mind has
persuaded your body that it will never walk again. Now, _I_ know better. Yours
is not the first case of this sort which has been brought to my attention. I
have seen six cures out of eight such cases during my studies abroad. They
interested me very much. It was primarily your case that brought me to Green
Hill. And the cure--please believe me--rests entirely with you." "I don't
believe it!" I said flatly, staring at him. "It simply isn't possible that half
a hundred doctors have been mistaken." And my eyes, although my tongue did not,
said very plainly, "And who are you?" For the first time, he smiled. "I am
sorry," he said, "if I have been unable to inspire you with so little
confidence. The 'half a hundred' doctors were probably quite correct--at the
time they had your case. How long has it been since you have had a specialist?"
"Six--no, seven years," I answered, and shuddered. "I thought so," he said. And
then, very suddenly, "Miss Carroll, do you _want_ to walk again? Do you want to
be a normal, active girl, instead of a semi-invalid?" I hated his tone. "Of
course I do," I fairly shouted, "do--do you think I'm a fool?" "Sometimes,"
answered the amazing creature, calmly. I was too angry to speak. "Look here,
Miss Carroll," he said quietly, "let's get down to brass tacks. For eleven years
you have lain on your back, allowing yourself to be waited on, coddled, wrapped
in cotton wool. You have had the companionship of your father, who is the finest
man in the world, but whose whole life is wrapped up in you, and who has
sacrificed that life to your whims and your desires. Your father was never meant
to be buried down here; not with that personality and fine brain. Think of the
doors which should be open to him and which your illness has closed,--travel,
society, the exploration of places and people, instead of a rather pretty, very
narrow, Connecticut _rut_! You have had Sarah--sentimental to a degree under a
rocky exterior, ready and anxious to work her fingers to the bone to please you.
You have had an entire village at your beck and call; have dispensed justice and
advice from your bed like Royalty; and you have thrived on it, my dear lady,
thrived on the adoration and the sacrifice, and on your own martyrdom. Now, I am
here solely to give you a chance to repay your father and all the others for
their love and care and coddling. Do you realize that your father is a
comparatively young man? That, by tying him to your bedside you have narrowed
his life down until it consists of this room, this house, this tiny village?
It's up to you to give something to your father. It may cost you pain. But I
wonder if you have any idea of what you have cost him in heartache? Are you
willing to make the effort, if only for his sake?" No one in all my life had
ever spoken to me like that! I was so hurt, so outraged, so bewildered, it
seemed as if I just couldn't live a minute longer, with that cool, cutting voice
in my ears. "You--you--brute!" I said, choking, "It's not fair! Do you mean to
tell me that I am selfish and unkind? That I don't love my father? That I am a
useless, worthless hypochondriac?" He smiled. "Perhaps I wouldn't put it quite
so strongly," he suggested courteously. I shut my hands hard under the
bedclothes and held my head very high. "Very well," I told him, rather
viciously, "I will do all you say, if Father and Doctor MacAllister are agreed."
I could feel the red spots burning on my cheeks. And in my mind I was saying,
over and over, like a child, "I'll show you! _I'll show you!_" I think I almost
hoped I should die--just to make him sorry. And it was so hard to keep the tears
back. I wouldn't cry. I _wouldn't_. I cried. Suddenly, his arm was around me,
and his voice, so changed, so immeasurably gentle, was saying, very close,

"You poor little kid!" "I hate you!" I said, at that. The arm tightened; then
dropped. Dr. Denton rose. "Good!" he said, heartily, towering above me. "That's
something to work on! Well, I have your promise, and for love of your father and
hate of me you'll walk yet, before the winter. And now, I will send Sarah to you
with something to quiet those--outraged feelings. Tomorrow we'll begin the
treatment." Then he left the room. And that's all Diary. I had a talk with
Father. I can't set it down here. It was too beautiful and too intimate. But now
that I realize all that it has meant, this long illness of mine, and all that my
recovery might mean to him, I am willing to undergo any torture, any agony;
willing even to endure the Cruel Magician and his Black Magic. How I hate him,
Diary! It makes me feel quite strong to hate anyone so,--I, who have always
cared for people, and lived on their love. What have I just written ... "lived
on their love"...? I wonder if he is right, if I have taken everything, and
given nothing in return? Tonight, with my mind and soul in chaos, I wish more
than ever that my Mother had lived. Dear Diary, silent and loyal confidant, wish
me well for tomorrow! GREEN HILL      September 22

Yesterday, Diary, was the most exhausting day I have ever survived! An alternate
succession of massage and naps, and naps and massage! And two efforts to sit up!
The first was quite unsuccessful. I was trembling all over with excitement, and
perhaps fear. And at the very first attempt, fear of pain and the immediate
succeeding pain itself, absolutely unnerved me. Dr. Mac, standing close beside
the bed, looked across at his colleague. He didn't shake his head, but the
expression in his keen old eyes was equivalent. Dr. Denton frowned. "Will you
try again, in a few minutes, Miss Carroll?" he asked, ignoring Dr. Mac, and the
little hurt, despairing sound which I couldn't help making. "I can't!" I said
flatly. He spread out his hands in an entirely foreign gesture of defeat. "Of
course, if you prefer not...." he suggested sketchily. There was something so
positively scornful in the look he bent on me that I writhed. I made my two eyes
as much like swords as possible--I hope, Diary, that they were not crossed!--and
snapped, "Do you mean to imply...?" Suddenly I stopped. I was looking straight
into the steel-blue eyes, and it was not until I saw their frosty expression
change to something distinctly like triumph that I discovered that--_I was
sitting up!_

Actually! But only for the fraction of a minute. It was the discovery itself, I
think, that laid me flat again, with Dr. Mac's arm around me, and his disengaged
hand stretched across the bed, frantically shaking Dr. Denton's. "Laddie, 'tis
mar-r-vellous!" he was saying, with a remarkable rolling of his r's. But Dr.
Denton was looking at me. "You see," he said quietly, "that after all you _can_
do it. It is only a matter of patience, and the will to conquer. And perhaps a
certain amount of--impetus." He was smiling, quite flushed, his eyes more
brilliant than I had ever seen them. "And now," he said, "suppose I go down and
tell your father. He has been walking the floor ever since we came up, I know.
We won't bother you again today, Miss Carroll. But tomorrow you're going to be
perfectly amazed to see how easy it will be to repeat the performance." After he
had gone, Dr. Mac walked around my little room, loquacious for once in his life.
"Isn't he a wonder?" he kept asking me. "Lassie, it's worth living for just to
meet a man like that. The born healer," he kept saying over and over, "the born
healer!" "I've no doubt," I said politely, "that Dr. Denton is a very able
physician." Dr. Mac stopped in his tracks, so suddenly that he nearly fell over.
"What's this? What's this?" he said, his bushy eyebrows drawn down over his
eyes, so closely that I could not see their expression. I repeated my remark.
One piercing glance, the suspicion of a twinkle, a deep, disconcerting chuckle.
And then my old friend said cryptically,

"So that's the way the land lies, little Mavis!" "What do you mean?" I began,
irritably. I seem to be in a continual state of annoyance these days, Diary. But
he had gone, and all the way downstairs I could hear him chuckling. Even my
succeeding little thanksgiving talk with Father failed to put me in a good humor
again. I think Doctor Mac is horrid! But if I am cured, Diary, won't I make them
_all_ "sit up!" New York City      September 22d

Dear Lady:

Have I offended you in any way? Yours-willing-to-be-penitent-if-necessary
RICHARD WARREN

THE CASTLE      September 25th

Dear Poet:

Certainly not! But when one is slowly and forcibly being    resurrected, one has
little time for letter writing. Shall I tell    you the program which has been
laid out for me? But first of all,    I must tell you that I am actually able to
sit up for a few    moments each day. And after I grow stronger and more daring,
a    chair is to be substituted for my bed, and then a wheel chair;    and maybe
after that a real live automobile! And finally, so I    have been promised, I am
to learn to walk! Fancy being such a    baby! But this very morning, the
Biggest, most Expensive, Busiest    Specialist in the country--who knew me
eleven years ago when he    was not quite so big or expensive or busy--came to
our little    house, and after a prolonged Examination told us that there was
no reason on earth why I should not recover wholly and    absolutely. It will
take time, he said, but it is certain. And I    need undergo no knife, or
painful treatment. I am only to mind,    and not be in too great a hurry. I feel
as if, link by link, the fetters were falling. I hardly    dare think ahead--to
the day when the great round world shall be    mine again. To the day when I
shall go to all the places I only    know from books and pictures. I want to go
to the theatre. I want    to see a horse race! I want to sail in a boat! And I
want to walk    and walk and walk! And, Poet, I want to fly! I must never be
very athletic, they say. Probably I shall never    ride or skate, or even drive
a car! I don't know--it doesn't    matter, of course. But I do hope that I may
dance! I've dreamed    of dancing. You know, in my dreams, I am always strong
and well. You are happy with me and for me, I am sure. And sometimes I    think
that your letters and your friendship have given me courage    and faith which
otherwise I should not have had. It must be a    beautiful world, and life must
be a wonderful thing, if poets can    live and make us see beauty through their
clear eyes. I am very grateful to you. And all through the perils and
adventures of being reborn, I shall be glad to feel that you are    thinking of
me, and holding your thumbs. Will you, please? Do you know a painter-poet named
Penny? At least, that is his    real name. He writes under a slightly more
suitable cognomen, but    I have been unable, in our brief acquaintance, to drag
it from    him. He seems a very nice person indeed, and made a long call on
me this morning. Wiggles wags. Yours, in at least the fifth heaven,      ME

GREEN HILL      September 25

Diary, Dr. Denton brought the Penny-man to see me today. Perhaps as a flesh-and-
blood flag of truce. At all events, it was more than an amusing experience. I
was out-of-doors, propped up in my now very ambitious position, feeding Wiggles
tea biscuits, and reading _The Lyric Hour_ for the millionth time. When the two
men appeared, I was declaiming aloud, slightly drunk by the most marvellously
blue-hazy day, and feeling tremendously strong and happy. After the
introductions,

"I've brought you good medicine, Miss Carroll," said Dr. Denton, indicating his
embarrassed friend. "A real live poet! The only one in captivity! Eats out of
the hand. But--I warn you he is modest. The proverbial violet is brazen compared
to Wright. And he won't lionize worth a nickel, and I am sworn to silence
concerning his prowess with the pen, and even his nom-de-guerre." Mr. Penny--
isn't it a dreadful name!--and combined with Wright, too!--sat down limply in
the chair beside me. "Please," he said, pleasantly and plaintively, "don't pay
any attention to him." "I never do," I said in my sugariest tones. Dr. Denton
lowered his inches to the ground, and there, sprawled like a starfish, regarded
me brightly. "She's truthful," he assured his friend. "She never does. And
you've no idea how she dislikes me. That handicaps you at the start, Wright, old
fellow. Doesn't it, Miss Carroll?" I considered Mr. Penny's amiable, blonde
countenance judicially. "It might," I agreed. "You see?" This from the Creature
in a piercing stage whisper. "But it doesn't!" I finished, smiling brilliantly
at Mr. Penny, who appeared slightly confused. Catching at a straw, which
happened to be the beloved _Lyric Hour_, the Unknown--I simply can't call him
Penny all the time--it's too ridiculous!--picked up the book, which was lying
beside me, and immediately gave the most theatrical start I have ever seen. I've
never seen plays, of course, but I have read them, and know stage directions
when I see them in the flesh. This was a particularly good example of
"confronted with the tell-tale revolver, Sebastian starts violently...."

"Richard Warren," read the Stranger aloud, with a very poor affectation of
indifference. "Yes," I said, "do you know him?" The Penny turned a beautiful
crimson. "I've read the book," he faltered. My back may be weak, but my eyes are
good. And the glance that passed between Dr. Denton and his friend did not
escape me. "It's nothing to be ashamed of, old man," said the former soothingly,
"particularly as it appears to be Miss Carroll's chief literary diet." "Is it?"
asked my guest, rather excitedly, I thought. "I adore it!" I answered, with all
the schoolgirl fervor I could muster. And it rang true, Diary, for it is! Dr.
Denton looked at me keenly. "Lucky book!" he said lightly, while Mr. Penny added
almost under his breath,

"Lucky author!" He has nice, doggie, brown eyes, and very fair hair. I smiled
into the former and longed to stroke the latter; it was so very smooth and
shining. "Won't you tell me about your own work?" I asked, beguilingly. "Yes,
do," urged Dr. Denton politely. The Unknown blushed some more. "I--I--" he began
somewhat wildly, "please, let's not. I'm very new at the game, and...."

His voice trailed off, and he sat hunched up in his chair, looking at me most
pitifully. I was honestly sorry for him, although not a little intrigued; and
most inexplicably suspicious. "Here's Wiggles," I said, "let's talk about him.
Isn't he a duck?" Wiggles, very sleek and beautiful, jumped gaily into my
visitor's lap and they became firm friends at once. "Why," I said, watching
them, "he acts as if he knew you!" Mr. Penny looked up quickly. "I've one much
like him, at home," he said. "Perhaps your puppy recognizes that. All my clothes
are very doggy," he added, with a perfectly charming smile. "Wiggles," I said,
"has excellent judgment--generally!" It was impossible not to cast the smallest,
swiftest glance possible at my enemy, as I said it. I had the advantage; but Dr.
Denton, from the ground, deliberately grinned at me. "She means," he explained
carefully, "that Wiggles is quite partial to me. And, of course, she cannot
understand it." He reached up a long, lazy arm and removed the dog from his
friend's lap; then, lying flat on his back and holding Wiggles quite close to
his face, he very calmly winked at him! And believe it or not, Diary, with my
own eyes I saw Wiggles solemnly and unmistakably _wink back_! If that isn't
Black Magic, what is it? After that, we three chatted comfortably for the better
part of an hour. Mr. Penny, gradually coming forth from his shell, proved a
wholly delightful companion. And I flirted! I've read about it in books, of
course, but haven't been able to practise very much. Still, I think I did very
well for a beginner. I am sure Dr. Denton thought so too, for once I heard him
say "Minx!" to Wiggles, quite fretfully. Anyway, he didn't seem to like it. When
they got up to go, I begged Mr. Penny to come again. His response was very
flattering. "Indeed I will," he began. But Dr. Denton interrupted him. "I
thought you had a pressing engagement in town," he said, significantly. Mr.
Penny made a really magnificent gesture of carelessness. "I have forgotten it!"
he said. "I'm reminding you," said his "old college chum" nastily. I put down my
hand to Wiggles, who kissed it obligingly. "Were you ever in a manger, Wiggles
darling?" I asked with interest. Wiggles barked. And Mr. Penny, who had just
discovered that Dr. Denton had been lying on his hat, turned to me with an
expression of bewilderment. "I beg your pardon," he said, with his ruined
headgear in his hand. "I was just speaking to Wiggles," I assured him. "Oh!" I
have no doubt that he thought me mad. Still, he must like a certain form of
insanity, for his farewell was almost tragic. As he left, he bent near me and
said, quite low, "I'm awfully glad you like Richard Warren, Miss Carroll."
"Why?" I asked innocently. But, if he answered at all, his reply was swallowed
up in Dr. Denton's laugh, an insulting cachinnation, to say the least. And as
_he_ left, the Creature bent near me and said, quite loudly, "You don't fight
fair, Adversary!" I suppose, Diary, if I repeat how much I dislike him, you will
finally cease to believe me. But I think you may safely take it for granted.
Isn't it odd that Mr. Penny should be very blond and shy? It isn't possible
that...? Of course not, and yet.... Well, foolish of me or not, it will be
difficult to write Richard Warren now, as long as I half suspect. There was a
stiltedness about my letter to him today even. And yet.... I can't quite believe
it. Probably Mr. John Denton was only drawing on his imagination, after all!
Still...? New York City      September 28th

Dear Lady! I have been out of town for a few days, and when I returned was
greeted by your letter. Even the envelope looked happy! And I am    so supremely
glad for you. The keys of my typewriter would sing    like a piano, if they
could. Isn't that the most absurd sentence? But I feel absurdly gay, myself. For
now, perhaps, I can persuade    you to let me come to your next lawn party. You
never answered my    question, by the way. So, being a persistent devil, I
repeat it. May I? Honestly, I eat with a fork, and my hair is cut in accordance
with the usual--rather hideous--fashion set for members of my    sex. I don't
seem to remember your friend with the interesting name. Perhaps, if you could
discover his pen name...? But I really know    very few people of writing bent.
I've been out of town, and was delightfully entertained by a    very old friend
of mine. And have come back with tons of    inspiration for the new book, which,
by the way, is rapidly    growing. Mr. Denton is anxious for an early
publication, but I do    not feel that I can complete the volume until Spring.
Would you care for it as a coming-out present? I should be very    proud....

Dear little Lady, I am certain that these must be very trying    days for you.
And I am holding my thumbs hard! Our pen and ink    friendship has been so dear
to me, all these summer months. It    has been both letter and spirit, has it
not? Can you forgive the    atrocious punning? And I am hoping that very soon
you will make    yourself known to me, and let me come where you are and tell
you.... But, until you do, I cannot tell you _what_! Yours always,      Richard
Warren

October 1st

Dear Mr. Warren:

Please, please, don't ask me to let you come! I am so afraid--of    so many
things! And I am certain that you would be very    disillusioned. Really, I'm a
most disagreeable person in the    flesh! I can refer you to at least one person
who sees me every    day and who thinks so! Won't you be content to allow me to
remain just a small, and, I    hope, sympathetic Voice out of an Unknown
Darkness? Very sincerely,      YOUR FRIEND

GREEN HILL      October 1, In-the-evening,

Diary dear, I have written Richard Warren that our acquaintance must remain a
pen-and-paper one. It is so much wiser to leave things that way. Once, I would
have been tempted.... But somehow, now, I am not. Adeline, Dr. Denton's cook,
arrived this morning armed with one of her inimitable chocolate cakes, and a
note from her wretched employer. I received her rather coldly, I am afraid; but
I have not yet recovered from the cap-setting incident. However, she is a
disarming creature, and the cake, which in part graced my luncheon tray, was
delicious. I can't offer you any, but I can set down for your amusement the
accompanying script. GREEN HILL      October 1st

My dear Miss Carroll:

As I have a number of messages to deliver to you from our mutual    friend,
Penny, and also a matter which I wish to personally    discuss with you, may I
invite myself to tea this afternoon? I    have ascertained, you see, that your
father will be in the city! In a professional capacity, I am able to go and come
as I please. But as this call is quite unprofessional in character, and
partakes somewhat of the nature of an armed truce, I do not feel    that I can
come without your consent. Adeline will wait for your answer. I am, meantime,
scouring the    town for a white flag. Yours very sincerely,      WILLIAM DENTON

I must confess, Diary, to a seizure of acute curiosity. Weakly, I bade Adeline
tell her master to wait on me at four, and sending for Sarah ordered extra tea
with which to placate the savage appetite of my self-bidden guest. We had tea
out-of-doors, for October has come in like a spring day, warm and clear and
beautiful. I was in my hammock, whither Sarah and Father had conveyed me at
three, just before Father's train left Green Hill, and had therefore an hour of
speculation. And it was not without a certain thrill of excitement that I saw a
tall, lean figure swing across the lawn towards me, and appropriate the low
chair beside me and the tea table. "Good afternoon," I said politely. "Good
afternoon," he answered, "it was nice of you to let me come." Wiggles, a sixth
doggie sense telling him I had a caller, came racing across to us from the
kitchen garden, where I have no doubt he had been destructively employed, and
greeted the Doctor with an exaggerated display of cordiality. When he was
disposed of finally, under my visitor's chair, "Lovely day," I proffered, one
hand concealing a tiny yawn. "Lovely!" agreed Dr. Denton, enthusiastically.
Conversation languished. Died. Finally, the silence becoming quite unbearable, I
stole a look at the enemy. His lips were pursed in a noiseless whistle, his
hands were informally in his pocket, and his eyes were dancing. It is
disconcerting that I should have to acknowledge his extreme good looks. I never
did care much for good-looking men, anyway. They're so disgustingly conceited.
And Dr. Denton possesses an almost spectacular combination of features,
coloring, and build. "Did you speak?" he asked gently. "I did not!" said I, with
emphasis. "Don't shoot," begged the Unwelcome One. "I'll come down. Or," he
asked anxiously, "can you see the whites of my eyes?" I laughed. I couldn't help
it. The situation was so perfectly ridiculous. And so, we laughed together.
Sarah, beaming, appeared with tea and cookies and cake. "Please pour," I said to
Dr. Denton, "and please have some of your own cake. Thank you," I added
carefully, "for sending it to us." "Oh, I didn't send it," he answered
cheerfully, manipulating china and silver with dexterity. "It was Adeline's
thought. Merely, she asked my permission." "Oh!" I said, in a small voice, and
accepted a cup of tea. Dr. Denton fed Wiggles cake, and engaged him in loud
conversation. I scalded my throat on tea, and promptly dropped the cup. This, at
least, created some diversion. Dr. Denton sprang up, scattering Wiggles, cups,
napkins, and spoons with equal indifference, and mopped up the deluge. "Did you
hurt yourself?" he asked, in quite an agonized tone. "No," I replied, dripping,
"but I have burned my throat most awfully. I'm afraid I shan't be able to talk
for quite a while." "May I see?" spoke the physician, with solicitude. I put out
my tongue very soberly. Dr. Denton returned hastily to his chair. "You spoke," I
suggested, "in your note, of messages." "Did I?" he returned, in a puzzled tone.
"It must be my handwriting. No doctor writes intelligibly." This was really too
much. I beat with my fist upon the unoffending hammock, and asked, "Has your
friend...?" "Gone? Yes, very unfortunately. He had, as I reminded him, a
pressing engagement in town. I, myself, took him to the train," concluded the
aggravating creature proudly. "How nice of you," I said heartily, "but you must
miss him." "Intolerably." The duologue showed symptoms of declining again.
Finally,

"Did you want to see me?" I asked courteously. "Not particularly," he replied,
"but under the white flag, as I suggested, I wanted to make a partial treaty
with you, with, of course, your consent." "I am listening," I said cautiously.
Suddenly he moved his chair nearer, crossed his legs, and lay back, hands locked
across his knees. "Look here," he said, "isn't it time that we declared
ourselves in open battle? This guerilla warfare ..." he paused, suggestively,
and I waited. "You have made it very plain," he went on, "that you do not like
me. Perhaps I am putting it mildly. At all events, as your medical adviser, I am
forced to inflict my presence frequently upon you. Your father likes me. Sarah
likes me; Wiggles likes me. Couldn't you," he asked earnestly, "try to overcome
your aversion, for the sake of the majority?" I considered. "I think not," I
said finally. "Very well. Having appealed to your filial respect, your better
self, there is nothing to do but ask you to sign a temporary armistice. For I am
beginning to find your concentrated attack rather ... wearing." I smiled. "I
wish," said Dr. Denton carefully, "to give you every opportunity to humiliate
and infuriate me. I have always believed a little aversion to be an excellent
beginning to matrimony. I don't suppose," he continued hopefully, "that by way
of simplifying things you would care to marry me?" He bit into a large sugar
cookie reflectively. "Marry!" I shouted, sitting bolt upright. I can do it now,
Diary, if the occasion demands. "Marry," said he, with the utmost calmness, but
with twinkling eyes. I collapsed. "I think you are perfectly insane," I began.
And then ceased, for want of words. Dr. Denton sighed. "I was afraid I couldn't
persuade you," he said. "Let us pass to the next point." I was still gasping,
like a fish. "You find your throat better with your mouth open?" he asked, with
interest. I closed it with a snap. And kept it closed. "As my wife," he
remarked, "you would have ample opportunities for delicate and refined torture.
However.... You have called me, perhaps rightly, a 'brute'. Am I to infer that
you still continue to regard me in that unflattering light?" I nodded. Speech,
by now, was wholly beyond me. "And I," he went on, "have intimated what I, as an
honest man, think of you. It is quite plain that I do not like you any better
than you like me. You have, I think, the makings of a rather nice girl. But I
have never cared for ... kittens. Now that we are agreed to disagree, Miss
Carroll, will you shake hands with me, and for the sake of our enforced
relationship, pledge yourself neither to stab me in the back or bite me, when I
am not looking? When you are quite well again, I am at your mercy. But until
then, I must entreat you not to hamper your recovery, and blast my medical
reputation, by consistently opposing me at every turn. Are you willing to play
friends with me until such time when I can set you on your feet?" He held out
his hand and smiled. The whole thing was ridiculous, and he had been
unnecessarily insulting. And yet ... it was a nice smile, Diary. I have even
seen my Peterkins smile just like that, hopefully, ingratiatingly. And after
all, I do owe him so much. Silently I laid my hand in his. "Good!" said he,
gripping it. "And tomorrow you are going to sit up, in a real, substantial
chair. After that, you'll be walking before you know it." The silly tears came
to my eyes. "I am grateful...." I faltered. "Don't be," he said cheerfully, "if
you dislike the sensation. It's all in the interest of science, you know." He
snapped his fingers at Wiggles, and got up to go. "I'm going for Sarah," he
said, "you must be taken back to your room now. It's getting chilly." Once
having established me in my room, Dr. Denton bent over me. "And," he said, very
much under his breath, "won't you consider my proposal? I meant it, you know!"
And then he had gone. I'd like to accept him, out of spite, Diary. And, never
having expected a proposal, I find even this one somehow exciting. Diary, if
only you could talk! CHAPTER VII

GREEN HILL      October 14

Diary, it is quite two weeks since I have made an entry, but the thrills of
actually sitting up, in a big chair, downstairs in front of a seasonable log
fire, and the even more exciting adventure of short wheel-chair rides in the
sheltered paths of a chrysanthemum garden, have for the moment entirely occupied
my time and thoughts. Even to the exclusion of you! And now, Father is talking
of taking me South for the winter. Just as soon as I am able to walk a little,
he wants to take me--and Sarah--and Wiggles--to Florida, so that I need not
undergo the trials of a Northern winter. I am worried about Father. He does not
look, and is not, at all well. The old trouble, which dates back to his Spanish-
American War days, has returned, and with it, disquieting heart symptoms. I got
Dr. Mac off in a corner, lately, and asked him to tell me truly what he thought
of Father's condition. "He seems so _tired_ all the time," I said. And Dr. Mac
looked very grave. "Lassie," he told me, "Your father's a sick man. And a
careless one. He's not minded his own aches and pains all these years, nor
spared himself. And he's not as young as he was." When I said something to
Father, he laughed at me. "MacAllister is an old woman," he said, "fussing and
fretting. I'll be all right presently, my little girl. Don't worry. The main
thing is to get you on your feet, and then we'll be off to Florida for a long,
long holiday. Bless that boy!" he added, and I knew that he meant Dr. Denton.
Well, I bless him too, when Sarah wheels me down the garden paths and I reach
out to touch the big friendly flowers. I feel so strong, so strong! They have to
watch me now, for I am like to do all manner of foolish things, with the old
languor gone, and the new red blood singing through my veins. But when Doctor
Denton comes and looks at me out of those cool eyes, and asks, "Well, how are
the tantrums lately, Miss Carroll?" I'm in no mood for blessing him then! GREEN
HILL      October 20

Oh! Oh! Diary, if you ever go automobiling, you'll never be content to sit in my
desk drawer again. It's too wonderful! This morning, bundled up to my eyes, I
was taken from my chair, lifted into Mr. John Denton's great, grey, purring
beast, and with Dr. William Denton at the wheel, and Father and Mr. Denton
beside me, I was taken, quietly and smoothly, over the hill road, down the
valley, and through the wide Meadow Road, on my first tour of exploration.
Eleven years! Eleven years! Back through the village we came, after an all too
short half-hour. Somehow the news had spread, and from every gate and window,
hands waved and friendly faces peered. They were glad to see me, the Green Hill
people. "Is she crying?" asked Dr. Denton at the wheel, with interest. I wanted
to. I wanted to cry and laugh and shout all at once. Instead I folded my hands
more tightly in Father's and said demurely, "Sorry, but she isn't." Dr. Denton
nodded, slouched down in his seat, his strong brown hands doing marvellous
things to the wheel. "Please," I asked Mr. Denton, "next time you take me
riding, will you drive, and may I sit in the front seat and watch you steer?"
Everyone laughed. "Ask Bill," answered my old friend, "I've just sold him the
car." "You may ride in the front seat--with me," announced Dr. Denton
graciously, before I had time to withdraw my request, "always providing that you
do not clutch my arm at inopportune moments, or scream as you did six minutes
back," he added, "when that mongrel pup appeared on the horizon, a good mile
away." "I don't think," I said, "that, after all, I'd care for the front seat."
"Very well," said the chauffeur obligingly, as, with a turn and twist we rolled
up smoothly before my own front door, where Sarah, apron flying in the wind,
stood, the tears shining on her dear old face. Front seat or back, I am to ride
every day, as long as the good weather holds, for it has been prescribed for me
by no less than two physicians in reputable professional standing; no matter
what their respective dispositions. And, Diary, I love it so that, for the sake
of the swift silent motion, I would cheerfully ride in any seat whatsoever,
regardless of the driver. So low have I sunk in my new passion. "Nervous?" asked
Dr. Denton, as he helped carry me to my room. I am conveyed now as children are,
on crossed hands with supporting arms about my back. "Not at all!" I answered
indignantly. "That's good," said he, "for I am a fearsome driver. I have," he
said, sinking his voice to an awe-inspiring whisper, "been known to kill my men
in my day. And any amount of dogs. Strong men as I pass have turned pale, and
women fainted on the streets!" He and Mr. Denton laid me on my bed, and I could
only look at him with scorn, from that ignominious position. Oh, when I can
stand on my two feet, won't I--well, won't I _just_!!!! GREEN HILL      November
1

Diary, this day I have stood upright, and taken my first faltering step forward.
Dr. Mac was there, and Dr. Denton, one on each side. And a step away, with his
arms wide, my Father. Sarah, her hand on Dr. Mac's arm, took the step with me.
She was quite white. I was terribly weak, and all bendy in the middle. But I
walked, Diary, I _walked_. I am in bed now, after having been fussed over and
made much of. I am sure Father is out sending wires! And Sarah pops in every two
minutes to see if I am still alive. I am very much alive, and my whole soul is
on its knees in gratitude. Now, almost for the first time, I believe that I am
to be a cog in the Great Machinery again; and no longer a little broken thing,
thrown out forever on the scrap heap. I want to tell Richard Warren. But no word
has come from him since my last letter. So I must wait. GREEN HILL      December
8

It seems a year since I last opened you, little Blue Friend. For so much has
happened. I walk, as if I had always walked, and it no longer seems wonderful or
blessed. For my Father is very ill. He is up and dressed and around, but I know
and he knows that it may not be for very long. He has been to town, to see other
doctors. And when he came back, he set his house in order. After he had told me
his exact condition, "Mavis," he said, "you are the bravest person, except your
Mother, I have ever known. It may be that I shall live for years; it may be that
it is only a matter of weeks or months. I don't know. The doctors hold out very
little hope of my recovery. You are better fitted to help me now than ever you
were. And," he said smiling, "it seems as if I had nothing more to live for, now
that you are well again, and growing stronger every day." I was on his lap, in
the big still living room. "Father, father," I said, and held his dear head
close against my breast. They can't take him from me! They can't! "Hush!" he
said. "We have had many years of the most beautiful, close companionship
together, my daughter. You have given me more than you know. And for a long time
I have known...."

He stopped. "Why didn't you tell me?" I asked, fighting back the tears. "I
talked it over," he said, "with Dr. Denton, and we decided that it was not wise
--as your condition stood then." Always Dr. Denton! Ordering my life....

"If only," said Father, very low, "if only I could leave you guarded, protected.
You know so little of life.... I am," he whispered to himself, "responsible to
her mother...."

We were quiet a long time. Presently he put me from him. "There, there," he
said, "I hear Peter calling you outside. Run along, dearest. And let me see you
smile before you go. It may be that we will have a long time yet together. Kiss
me, Mavis, and smile." Diary, I am so terribly frightened. So alone. GREEN HILL
December 21

We are getting ready for Christmas. The Green Hill people have sent me, with
their love, a beautiful, courageous tree. And everyone has offered to come and
trim it. But we must be very quiet on this, my first real Christmas for many
years. For Father is failing steadily. He does not complain, but he spends a
great deal of the day in bed; and he is so white, so worn, that my heart stands
still to look at him. If only I could have stayed all my life in my little rose-
grey room, helpless and cared for, if by some strange twist of Fate my Father
could have been spared this wasting illness. I hate my feet; so eager to run; I
hate my new sense of well-being and vitality. I hate the faint pink in my
cheeks, and all my untired strength. It is snowing today. White and soft and
thick snow lies over my garden. Like a.... No, I can't write it....

GREEN HILL      December 28

Christmas is over and done with. I had so many lovely gifts, more than ever this
year, it seems. I have put them away--the books from Mr. Denton, the little gold
watch from Father, even Peter's funny little hand-painted card. And all the
others. I can't seem to be grateful for anything. Wonderful roses reached me
from the city, Christmas morning. There is no card. But I know who sent them.
Why doesn't he write? He would help, a little, I think. But I can't write to
him. Not now. GREEN HILL      January 1

The new year. I ran over to see Mrs. Goodrich this morning. She is terribly
distressed because Mr. Goodrich's firm is sending him abroad, and he wants her
to go with him. They will be travelling too much to take Peter and have decided
against it. Of course I asked for him. And she will let me know. Father, when I
told him, shook his head. He said nothing, but I knew what he was thinking.
GREEN HILL      January 2

Father asked me today if I liked Dr. Denton. He asked me so wistfully and so
strangely that I couldn't tell him the truth. They are great friends, I know. So
I lied. "Why, yes," I said, "I like him very much." I felt myself grow red.
Father patted my hand. "He's a good man," he said. "I want you to trust him,
Mavis. I have made John Denton your guardian--you know so little about money and
the dull things of life," he added, half sighing, half smiling. "You are, after
all, only a child." I tried to change the subject, as I always do, when directly
or indirectly Father speaks of leaving me. He seemed happier, when I left him,
than I have seen him in many days. I am glad, Diary, that I lied to him about
the Enemy. GREEN HILL      January 10

This morning Father was worse. I rushed to the 'phone and tried to get Dr. Mac,
but he was out, making his calls. So Dr. Denton came. He sent me from the room,
and was with Father a long, long time. When he came out, he called me. "Your
father wishes to see you, Miss Carroll," he said. "Dr. Denton--" I couldn't say
any more. Suddenly he took my two ice-cold hands in his firm, warm grasp.
"Remember," he said, almost sternly, "that I am at your service, always, and at
his." He dropped my hands and turned away. "I shall be back," he told me, "in
the afternoon." Shaking all over, I laid my hand on the doorknob and prayed,
over and over, just "Please, God, help him," and went in. Father, very white,
held out his hands. "Come here," he said. And when I was beside him,

"Mavis," he said, "the thought of leaving you alone--now that I feel certain
that I must leave you, is unbearable. I have been talking today with Dr. Denton.
He wants to marry you, my dear, and take care of you always, for me. He has been
like my own son to me, that boy. He is straight and true and clean. And I think
that I could go on my long journey with very few regrets, my Mavis, if I knew
that you were in as safe hands as his." Cruel! Cruel! My heart almost stopped,
and then raced on again. I couldn't speak. Father, his hand on mine, looked at
me wistfully, entreatingly. I couldn't bear to have him look like that. Like a
beggar. And yet, for a moment, I had absolutely no impulse of love toward him.
He was a stranger to me, my own Father. It was impossible that it was his voice
asking me to do this unthinkable thing. "Mavis?" "I can't," I said, in a
whisper. His hand loosened from mine. Dropped wearily to the bed,

"Very well, dearest," he said, "of course you shall do nothing against your
will. I only thought...." he stopped, and then, "It seemed a solution," he
finished. He looked very tired. All my love for him came rushing back. I kissed
him, and he held me close for an instant. "Will you--think it over?" he asked
slowly. "Yes, Father," I said, and was rewarded by his old brilliant smile. Once
out of the room, I brushed past Sarah, hovering near the door, and went to my
own room. There, lying on my bed, I "thought it over." What was it Dr. Denton
said to me,--"you owe your father something." I have cried until I have no tears
left, rebellious, sick at heart. I can't. And yet ... if it would make him any
happier.... The bell is ringing. If that is Dr. Denton, I will see him before he
goes to Father. Late at night. I have said that I will marry William Denton.
GREEN HILL      January 12

It is only a matter of days with Father now. Dr. Denton told me that, when we
had our talk two days ago. He listened to what I had to say, very quietly,
standing in front of the fire, his arms crossed, and looking down at the great
chair in which I was half buried. After he had told me about Father, "If you
will marry me, Miss Carroll," he said, "I will do my best to carry out your
father's wishes. I cannot make you happy--that I know--but I can make you--safe.
Until such time as you do not need my protection." "What do you mean?" I asked
him. "I mean," he answered gravely, "that you are very young and that the
abnormal life which your accident forced you to lead has peculiarly unfitted you
for any solitary encounter with the world. If you would trust yourself to me, I
promise faithfully to care for you, to watch over you, and to help you through
the first bewildering time. After that--you may dispose of me as you see fit."
"You mean?" I whispered again. He smiled, sombrely. "I am not trying to bind you
to me," he said. "I am asking you for your Father's sake, to let me take care of
you for a time. When you are quite strong, and quite able to look out for
yourself, it will remain for me to step aside, and you will be free to do and go
as you please." Something of hope stirred faintly in me. "You will let me go
then?" "Certainly." I laid my face against the soft cushions of the chair.
"Marriage," I said, under my breath, "I--I--"

I couldn't go on. "It will not be," he said very gently, "a marriage, Miss
Carroll. It will be a business arrangement. You may have my sacred word of honor
that I will not trouble you in any way. And that as soon as possible I will take
the steps to make you quite free again." I stood up and faced him. "You think
that Father really wishes this?" I asked. "It is, I know, his heart's desire,"
said Dr. Denton, "and I am tremendously honored by his faith in me." "Very
well," I said, and held out my hand. Silently, he took it. "Thank you, Mavis,"
he said quietly. I was conscious of a longing to escape; it was as if a fine
silken cord were tightening about me. "Shall we go to Father?" I asked him.
Without another word we two walked from the room. "Remember," he said to me at
the door, "this is for your father. We must make believe for him, you and I." I
nodded. The door closed behind us. GREEN HILL      January 20

I am to be married tomorrow. It is Father's wish. He is weaker, but suffers no
pain, and he recognizes us all. Twenty-four hours to my wedding. Please God that
Father will never know how I dread it. Mr. John Denton is to give me away. And
we are to be married from this house, with no one but the Goodriches and Mr.
Denton present at the ceremony. Ceremony! The mockery of it! Dr. Denton has
given me a ring. It was his Mother's, he said. I have never asked him about his
Mother. I do not even know if he has told her. Nothing seems to matter very
much. Father.... _Father_....

January 21

William--he has asked me to call him that--came to me this morning, and for the
first time in days we talked together for more than a moment. "You are
frightened," he said to me, "and nervous. You need not be." "Why--why are you
marrying me?" I asked him suddenly. "Why are you marrying me?" he countered.
"Father," I said, and stopped. He nodded. "I, too," he said simply. All at once
I realized what a tremendous sacrifice he was making. I tried, very poorly, to
tell him. "Not at all," he assured me, "I am perfectly clear as to what I am
doing. And my own motives. I shall be, after all," he added, "perfectly free--
except perhaps outwardly." There was something in his voice.... I got to my
feet. "Very well," I said, "it is understood that we are both free? Except
perhaps outwardly?" I do not think he liked it. January 21

This afternoon, at four, I was married to Dr. William Denton, in the room next
door to Father's. They let me see him right afterwards; and he put his dear thin
white hand on my forehead and smiled. William has moved over to the house to be
near Father, and after the grave congratulations of our few friends, we were
alone together in the quiet house. Married. And as far apart as Pole from Pole.
Diary, you who have guarded my girlhood so jealously, it is Good-by now. I have
come to the end of the chapter. And there will be nothing in my future life that
I shall want to record. There is only this:

Uncle John brought me today a letter. From Richard Warren. I opened it ten
minutes ago, alone in my room. It was a short letter. It asked if he might come
to me; it said that he had loved me all these months; it was signed, "Your
Lover, Richard Warren." It came too late, dear Diary. I will lay it among your
pages, with my dreams and my hopes and my sorrow. Good-by. With a very steady
hand, I, by some mysterious alchemy of the Law and the Church, Mrs. William
Denton, write this last word on your pages. _Finis_

CHAPTER VIII

The last word had been written in my Diary. Wearily, I stood erect and brushed
the loosened hair from my eyes. The house was very still; in all my life I had
never been so utterly alone. I turned from my desk, and, as I did so, caught a
glimpse of my face in the wall-mirror. That was not I--that white-faced girl,
with the frightened eyes and shaken mouth. "Mavis...."

I saw the mirrored eyes grow dark, the tremulous mouth straighten into lines of
control before I left my curiously impersonal scrutiny of myself and opened the
door for my husband. "Well?" "Your father is awake," said Bill, very tall and
broad-shouldered on the threshold. "I have been trying to persuade him to have a
nurse, but he won't listen to me." "Sarah is better than any hospital graduate,"
I answered, "and I am quite strong enough to be with him now." "As you wish," he
answered gently. "But I think you over-estimate your strength, my dear." I
walked past him into the hall. "Sarah has prepared the guest room for you," I
said. "It is next door to father." "Thank you." He walked with me to the door of
the sick-room, stood aside and let me enter alone. Father was still conscious,
he knew me, tried to raise his hand. I put mine over it and sat for the rest of
the afternoon by his bed. Sometimes he seemed to sleep, and I watched him with a
passion of sorrow and love unlike anything I had ever known. All his defences
were down, all his barriers of reserve. He was like a child, and, I thought,
quietly happy and at peace. It is difficult to set down on paper how I yearned
over him as the slow hours dragged by. But when Sarah came to relieve me and I
rose, stiff and cramped from long sitting, I was conscious that, somehow, I had
come to grips with myself, had seen for the first time what I owed to my father,
had realized fully his sacrifice and his unfailing thought of me. It was as if
we had talked together, we two, a long intimate hour. And I knew then, as never
before, that I owed him not duty nor obedience, for those are unloving words,
but tenderness and endless gratitude. If before he left me forever, my marriage
was the one thing to bring him peace, then no matter how mistaken his love for
me had been in that instance, I had been more than right to do for him as he
wished. The fact that in so doing I had probably ruined two lives, was of minor
consideration. Two days went by. On the evening of the second, the doctors held
out very little hope that my father would live through the night. I watched with
them until morning. I had no tears left. I had come to a place where no tears
were, a place too deep to be stirred by emotion or even grief. As the dawn came
in, pale and cold, Dr. McAllister turned from the bed and took his hand from
father's wrist. He looked old and grey--dear Doctor Mac, but his eyes were
radiant. "He'll pull through!" he said simply. All about me was a singing
darkness. Through it I heard a voice say sharply, "Look to the lassie, Bill!"
and felt strong arms around me. Before I lost complete consciousness I remember
putting up my hand to brush something wet from my face. Tears? Not _my_ tears.
"Don't cry," I said childishly. "It hurts father to see people cry." When I woke
again it was bright daylight. I was in my own room on my own bed. My husband was
sitting, his hands between his knees, beside me. For a moment I stared at him.
Then, as knowledge flashed through me like a terrifying tide,

"Father?" I questioned, very low. "He's all right, Mavis," said Dr. Denton
quietly. "The danger is past--thank God!" I put out my hand, gropingly, and he
took it firmly into his. "Cry now," he said gently. "It will help." Then, in a
rush, came the healing, peace-giving tears. *       *       *       *       *

It was not until ten days later, when father, marvellously recuperating, sat up
for the first time and demanded his "children" about him that I faced the fact
that what was done could not be undone, and that I was confronted by the
finality of marriage. "Well, you two," said father weakly, but with a tiny
glimmer of mischief in his eyes, "it looks as if I had hurried you before the
altar under false pretences. What are you going to do about it--now that I've
fooled you by living?" Beneath his half-laughter, I heard a note of anxiety, of
doubt. And the resolution rose up strong and compelling within me that never, as
long as I lived, should father know what he had done. It was the only way in
which I could pay my debt. "Play the game, Mavis," I said to myself, and smiled
straight into father's eyes. Bill, sitting beside me, drew a long breath. Was it
relief? I glanced at him quickly and knew that for one moment we agreed. "You
old matchmaker," I said, "were you so afraid that I would never find a husband?
Was it quite necessary to frighten us all to pieces in order that I should wear
a wedding ring?" Father laughed. "Then," he asked, "It's all right--with you
two?" I turned to Bill and saw him nod once before I spoke. "It's all right," I
said, "and we're all happy." "Thank God!" said father under his breath. I could
not bear the look on his face, and slipped blindly, without excuse, from the
room. It was the following week that John Denton came down to be with us, and
hatched his plans with father. They called us in, Bill and me, and laid their
schemes before us. "We have decided," said father, very thin and pale in his
armchair, "that children are best left alone, without old people to disturb
them. I'm quite all right. In two weeks I shall be younger and better than I
have been in twenty years. And I want you and Bill to go away, Mavis. It's time
you had your honeymoon, cloudless and solitary, as all honeymoons should be. Old
John here has been talking his camp in Canada to me, for an hour steady. And I'm
persuaded. I'll get you infants out of the house, and then John and I and that
marvelous man-servant of his who is cook and nurse and valet in one person will
travel by easy stages and spend a month rusticating in the big woods. "Can't we
go too?" I begged, in a sudden panic. "You can _not_!" said Uncle John and
father in one breath. I turned a little helplessly to my husband. "They don't
want us!" I said. "And we don't want them!" he answered smiling. "You and I are
going to Cuba. Just as soon as you can get ready. I've been talking to your
father and he agrees with me that the absolute change will do you all the good
in the world." "Cuba!" "Exactly. There is a perfectly good plantation there just
waiting for us." "But...." I said, sparring for time, "I couldn't leave Sarah."
Father laughed outright. "You baby!" he said, caressingly. "You won't have to,"
said Bill. "She needs a rest as much as you do. She's coming along--and so is
your friend Peter. We can't leave him behind, and Mr. Goodrich has to sail for
Spain sooner than he expected. I saw him this morning." I was too amazed for
words. And over my defenceless head the affair was settled. Canada for father
and Uncle John; Cuba for Sarah, Peter, Bill, and me. A thousand protests, the
old rebellious anger at having my life settled and ordered for me, rushed over
me again. But father's eyes were on me and I choked back my resentment. "Cuba it
is!" I said, forcing a smile. And so, after the maze of packing, of sending
Sarah to New York for summer clothes--in the dead of winter!--after the
farewells and the blessings and the thought-deadening hurry and bustle--Cuba it
was. CHAPTER IX

It was decided that my husband and I should go to New York by motor, spending
the night with his uncle, Peter and Sarah to join us the following day, so that
the last packing could be leisurely attended to before we sailed. I had my
farewells with father alone. Dr. Denton went in first and came out looking more
moved than I believed possible. If I could have liked him at all, it would have
been for his devotion to my father. I can't write about how dear father was when
he told me good-by. John Denton went up to town with us. I begged him to, and he
very naturally attributed my nervousness and pallor to the long strain of my
father's illness. He was very good to me. Leaving my house, in a sense for the
first time, and knowing it would be months before I saw it again, I experienced
a sinking of the heart that was terrible. Not till then had I realized how much
my home meant to me, how much freedom had been mine beneath it's little roof,
how lovingly the friendly walls had safeguarded and sheltered me. At the door, I
clung first to Mrs. Goodrich and then, for a long, close moment, to Sarah. She
seemed a rock of strength, the last familiar landmark. But strong hands drew me
away from her, and presently I was in the closed car, and we were off for New
York. I had very little sensation: only a feeling of great numbness and a
consciousness that if I could know any emotion it would be that of an infinite
despair. I was dimly grateful that I need not go by train. In this, at least,
they had humored me. All through the long ride, I sat huddled in the new furs
which were Uncle John's wedding gift to me, my eyes closed, and my hand in John
Denton's warm clasp. I did not hear what the two men said to one another.
Possibly, when they spoke to me, I answered. I do not know. Something of the
terrifying maelstrom of the city traffic penetrated my stupor as we came
smoothly into town. It was all so new ... the noise and rush and bewilderment of
it. The lights were beginning to flare up all about me: faces seen in the crowds
struck at me like a blow. Such hungry, restless, seeking faces.... But here and
there, the happy eyes of a girl clinging to a man's arm, or walking alone with
her dreams, stood out for me, and brought the tears to my eyes. Wearily I
thought, if I could only cry again--for it seemed so long since I had known the
release of tears. I must have fainted when we reached the house, for the next
thing I remember is waking up in a great, wide bed, in a huge, high-ceilinged
room, with a kindly, round old woman fussing over me. "You're to lie still,
dearie," she said, as I tried to sit up, "and have a bite of supper on a tray.
'Tis the Doctor's orders, ma'am," and she smiled at me with a certain shy
sweetness, and tucked a billowy eiderdown quilt more closely about my feet. I
discovered then that I was undressed and surrounded by hot-water bottles. I
tried to thank her, but words were difficult. I was so very tired. Someone
knocked. "It's himself, surely," said the old woman, as she hastened to open,
and then stood aside, her hands beneath her apron, to let my husband come in. He
thanked her, dismissed her, and came straight to my bedside, where he stood
looking down at me. I drew the clothes tight about my throat and looked at him
mutely. "How do you feel?" he asked, retrieving one of my submerged hands and
placing a steady finger on the pulse. "Tired," I answered, and then, "Oh, Doctor
Denton, when will Sarah be here?" I knew quite well: but something unreasonable
in me hoped that I had slept a whole twenty-four hours away and that I would
very soon hear her comforting step outside my door. "Tomorrow," he answered, and
added with a suspicion of a smile, "but I thought we were agreed that Doctor
Denton, as a form of address, is taboo, under the circumstances." "William,
then," I said, with a great weariness in my heart. "Could you manage Bill?" he
asked. "I have unpleasant associations with my full name: it always reminds me
of the woodshed, and my father's strong right hand." Absurdly enough, I heard my
own voice saying solemnly:

"Father called me William, Mother called me Will, Sister called me Willie, but
the fellers called me Bill." I stopped suddenly, wondering if I were going quite
mad. But there was reassuring laughter in the eyes bent upon me. "Exactly," he
said, gravely. I attempted to laugh. It was a very poor effort, and ended in
tears. Dr. Denton sat down on the bed and took me into his arms, pressing my
head against his shoulder. I didn't care. I cried there very comfortably, for a
long time. "It's all right," I heard his voice saying, coming, so it seemed,
from a great distance. "It's all right. You'll feel lots better for it, Mavis."
After a while, I dried my eyes and lay back against the pillows again. The
intolerable burden about my heart had eased a little, in some miraculous manner.
"And now," announced my husband, "Mrs. Cardigan is going to bring you some
supper. After that, she will make you comfortable for the night, and you are to
drink what I send you. Uncle John sends his love and the demand that you pour
his coffee for him in the morning, or, if you do not feel strong enough, you are
to stay in bed, he says, and he will come up and pour yours! And I shall be next
door to you, if you want anything in the night. But I am sure that you are going
to sleep soundly." He rose and looked down on me once more. "Good night," he
said. "Sleep well." "Good night," I answered, "Dr.--B-B-Bill!" His eyes
twinkled, just for a moment. "Good night," he responded, "Miss--M-M-Mavis!" He
opened the door for Mrs. Cardigan and her tray, stood aside, waved to me once,
and was gone. All the way down the hall I heard him singing: "You are old,
Father William" in a pleasant, gay baritone. Suddenly I realized I was hungry. I
awoke the following morning feeling almost happy. There was a wonderful sense of
adventure in looking out of my windows over the grey city streets, in hearing
the hurrying footsteps go past me. So many people! So many sorrows and joys
passing beneath my window, so many eager feet going out to meet the day! I felt
very small, almost insignificant, very unimportant. "It's like an angel you're
looking today, Mrs. Denton!" said Mrs. Cardigan amiably, as she brought me my
breakfast, with Uncle John following hard on her heels. "And it's blushing she
is!" added the honest creature in amazement. Uncle John laid his hand on the
shoulder of the old woman who had been nurse and housekeeper and almost-mother
to him for thirty years. "Run off with you, Mary," he said, laughing. "Mrs.
Denton isn't used to blarney!" "And her with the fine young husband!" said Mrs.
Cardigan in obvious astonishment as she backed to the door. Uncle John looked at
me with laughing eyes: but I could not meet his glance. The rest of the day is
more or less of a blur to me now. Sarah came, with Peter and Wiggles. It was a
matter for debate, which of the two last mentioned was the more excited. But it
is certain that Peter talked more. His ideas of Cuba were wonderful and strange,
and it was only by dint of dire threats of being left on the dock that we
finally persuaded him to go to bed. The following morning, February tenth, with
the thermometer flirting with zero, we sailed for Cuba. Sarah and I had
connecting cabins: and I bribed a blonde, friendly steward to let me conceal
Wiggles behind locked doors and thus keep him with us. On the other side of me,
Dr. Denton was housed with Peter. All the cabins were full of flowers and fruit
and books, and I am sure that, although I may have concealed it better, I was
quite as excited as Peter and the pup. It was, they tell me, a rough passage.
Somehow, I didn't seem to mind. To lie in a deck-chair, muffled to the eyes, and
to watch the ocean seemed all that I wanted in life. I never tired of it. Grey
and green and blue, as the fog or the sun caught it, there was never anything as
wonderful as my first sight of the sea. I was even glad of the storms that
delayed us longer than usual. For, even beyond Cape Hatteras, we had wind, and
snow and cold. And then came a day when, little by little, people began to crawl
greenly up from their cabins, shed their sweaters, and take an interest in life.
Sarah among them. Poor dear, she had succumbed almost before we left the dock!
Every dip of the boat, every rising and falling swell was met by her with the
gloomy announcement that she wanted to die. Once, when I peered in at her, I
found my husband sitting by her berth and answering quite gravely, her
innumerable questions as to how they conducted burials at sea. Were they
conducted "with decent Christian rites?" she was demanding weakly. As I walked
the deck with him, braced against the salt wind, my hair flying under my fur
cap,

"You shouldn't tease Sarah!" I said indignantly. "Shouldn't I?" he asked,
forcibly restraining Peter from going over the rail--shouting, "I see a mermaid,
Aunt Mavis!" "Perhaps not. But to the good sailor, seasickness is always a
matter, inexplicable and humorous." "By the way, I'm glad," he continued, "that
you've stood the trip so well. It would be a pity," said he pensively, "to have
injected into the romance of a honeymoon the very mundane element of mal-de-
mer...."

I turned on my heel to leave him, but reckoned without the tremendous wave which
swung lazily up to the boat, smote it, held it suspended a breathless moment,
and then let it down again with unparalleled suddenness. My husband's arm
intervened between me and the rail, checking my mad career in mid-air. "Steady
on," he said. "We've not reached tropical waters yet." There was nothing to do
but take his proffered arm and walk on, in haughty silence. We sat at the
Captain's table, and for the greater part of the trip we and the Captain sat
there alone. No, not quite alone, for at the Captain's right sat the prettiest
girl I have ever seen. We met her the first day out, and it was not long before
she had attached herself to our party. Peter, always susceptible to beauty,
caused me not a few pangs of jealousy before the trip was over. And Miss
Mercedes Howell, for such was her mismated name, seemed to find much in common
with my husband. She had thought at first, she confided to me naively, that the
Doctor and I must be brother and sister despite the passenger list, and at all
events, we must have been married a long, long time--was it not so, dear Mrs.
Denton? On my stately assurance that I had been married less than a week, her
enormous black eyes flew open to their widest. I changed the subject. Miss
Howell, so her vivacious chatter informed us, was returning to Havana after a
period of college. I gathered that by the edict of the faculty she had gone
through Vassar in two years instead of the prescribed four. "Oh, but it was
dull," she told us at the table, with melting, melancholy eyes. "No young men!
Nothing! Just stupid books and rules--rules--rules!! It was like prison!
Imagine!" And she looked brightly about the board for sympathy. If I had a
momentary sense of sympathy, it was for the faculty, but evidently my husband
and the Captain felt otherwise. Mercedes, as she insisted I should call her,
extending the courtesy to the entire family, and, as a matter of course,
addressing me as Mavis and the remainder of the party as Peter and Bill, was the
daughter of a wealthy American, settled in Cuba with a Spanish wife. She was
twenty, and on returning to Cuba, was to make her debut. I was tremendously
interested by her vivid account of Cuban Society, and went to bed each night
with my head a whirl of horse races, and parties and country clubs and motor
trips. Her chaperone being confined to her cabin, Mercedes found that, after I
had retired it was quite providential that she should keep "Billy" pleasantly
occupied on deck until such time as she should elect to go to bed. I must say
that my husband advanced no serious objections. And when we parted on the docks
at Havana, Mercedes escaped from her wan and weary attendant long enough to
assure us all of her undying affection and to impart to us the pleasing
information that Guayabal, whither we were bound, was quite near Havana, and
that we could expect to see her often. I am afraid I was not very cordial. She
was rather a dear, and superlatively, almost superfluously, pretty, but she made
my head ache, and beside her youth and effervescence I felt curiously old.
Entering the harbor was something I shall never forget. The blue water and the
sun on the white and mauve and pink houses, and the shining fortress of Morro
castle rising up from the bay. Bill told me something of its history, as we
leaned over the rail and watched the approach. And a sense of horror took hold
of me, in the warmth and sunlight, as I thought of the torture chamber and the
silenced screams of the prisoners....

And that is why, I suppose, my first impression of Cuba was one of beauty and
cruelty, warmth and color and the dark, swift treachery of by-gone ages. The
landing, the inspection, the docks, passed in a blur. Sarah, pale and miserable,
sat on a trunk with Peter and watched her alien surroundings with unfriendly
eyes. But it was not long before we were hustled away and into a long, luxurious
open car, driven by a lean, hawk-eyed person who greeted us in an unmistakable
Yankee twang, bless him, and seemed unfeignedly glad to see us. "This is Silas,
Mavis," my husband informed me, "chauffeur extraordinary, Jack-of-all-trades,
and overseer-in-particular to my friend, Harry Reynolds. And this, Silas," he
said, quite impressively, "is Mrs. Denton!" I shook hands and presented Sarah,
who brightened visibly at the home-touch, and after we were settled, with Peter
and Wiggles and innumerable bags stowed in the front seat with Silas, I drew a
deep breath and watched Havana slide by, gay with color, its narrow streets
crowded, under a heavenly blue sky. We ran along the low sea-wall, and passing
parks and wonderful stone edifices which seemed too fairy-like to be called
houses, we were soon leaving the outskirts far behind us. Before us stretched a
long, wide, white road, thick with fine, sharp dust. "We're climbing," said my
husband, "you'll notice the change of air soon, for Guayabal is in a mountain
district." I hardly heard him. I was too busy watching the various family groups
as we went through the villages. It was all so incongruous: here, a marvellous
house that might have belonged to some foreign Prince--there, huddled at its
very gate, a cluster of huts, thatched, and sun-baked; and brown babies all over
the landscape, very naked, very dirty and, from a distance at least, wholly
enchanting. And then the trees! The tall, royal palms, with the afternoon wind
in them! "Oh-h!" I said, as we passed a clump of wonderful scarlet blossoms,
"what is it?" Sarah was exclaiming too, sitting perfectly upright and rigid
beside me. "Hibiscus," answered our companion. "You'll find lots of it where we
are going." The villages went by. A crimson sun was glowing over the palms, and
almost before I had seen it, it was gone, and a violet after-glow was coloring
distant hilltops. I clasped my hands in my lap and wondered if ever there had
been anything as lovely and remote. And it was with a sense of absolute shock
that I heard and saw Silas snap on the lights of the car and realized that now
the after-glow had gone and that the heavy Southern night had closed in around
us. "Why, there isn't any twilight," I said, in childish disappointment. "Not
here," answered my husband, "Nature strikes suddenly and swiftly in the tropics.
She has no halftones, no compromise...."

Even in the dark I could feel his glance at me. I said nothing. When we entered
the village of Guayabal and drove up the winding roadway through the gates and
into the drive, the stars were shining. Very close they seemed, and
tremendous--"as big as dinner plates," as Sarah put it to me afterwards, with
obvious disapproval. And they were warm, almost fragrant, I fancied, unlike our
cold, high, impersonal stars of the North. They frightened me.... The lights
shone out from a low, long house as the car stopped under a portico. Two smiling
Chinese housemen were standing, ready to take our bags, and my heart sank as I
thought of what Sarah--who contributes so religiously to foreign missions--must
be thinking. It was with relief, therefore, that I saw the unmistakable
Hibernian face of the cook at the door. The domestic staff consisted then, of
Wing and Fong and Norah; and I blessed the Reynolds, that, in assembling their
household Lares and Penates, they had included something white and clean and
very cordial to preside over the kitchen, for I feared for Sarah's peace of
mind....

Peter, tired and perhaps somewhat frightened by the strangeness and by the
yellow hands raised to lift him down from the car, whimpered a little, and my
husband, jumping out, took the child in his arms and turned to me,

"Welcome," he said, with a certain dignity, "to the Palms." It was the loveliest
house. Even Sarah was moved to favorable comment, and Wiggles went quite mad. We
entered through a screened, tile-floored verandah, lamp-lighted, and bright with
wicker-ware, to an enormous room. The walls were panelled in dark wood, the
floor red-tiled, the ceiling raftered, and it was wide and high and long beyond
my wildest dreams of any room. There were tables and books and myriad
comfortable chairs all about, and at the far end, a huge fireplace, wherein a
little red fire burned comfortably. For as the night came, so came the sudden
amazing chill after the day's heat, and I found the warmth and sight of the fire
very gratifying. The room was living and dining room in one, Norah explained to
me, and showed me hard by the pantry door, the table laid for two. And after my
first curiosity had subsided, she took me to my room. It was many-windowed, and
all the windows were barred. Three red steps led up to the alcove where a great
bed was set, under an age-old crucifix. And it was gay with chintz and dimities,
while against my windows a bourginvilla vine whispered in the wind. Peter and
Sarah were next door, with a bath between, and across the way, my stranger-
husband had his own room and bath, as big and odd and delightful as mine. I
could hardly sit down or let Sarah brush my hair or even wash the dust of the
journey from me for excitement. Peter, soon undressed and sitting up in bed with
a big bowl of bread and milk, was trying heroically to keep his eyes open. I
heard his prayer, answered half a thousand questions as best I could, left him
sleeping quietly, and went in search of my--host. I found him, in a dinner
jacket, at the piano, playing something very softly, and with his eyes half-
closed. When he heard my step on the tiles, he jumped up. "I didn't know you
played," I said politely, glad that Sarah had persuaded me to change, and
conscious of how very becoming the new mauve voile must be. "I have a number of
accomplishments," he answered irritatingly. I stood for a moment, by the
fireplace, the mantel high above my head. "This is a wonderful house," I said,
trying to make conversation. "Tell me something about it." Dr. Denton drew two
big chairs close to the fire and for half an hour told me of his friend, Harry
Reynolds, and his delicate little wife, of how they had come to Cuba and built
this place of dreams and sent for Silas from Vermont to come and take care of
it. "It is only about a hundred acres," said my companion, "mostly in sugar
cane. But Reynolds has plenty of money and they were very happy here. When the
youngest boy died of fever, Mrs. Reynolds couldn't stand it any longer. The
place had too many associations. So they left, last summer, keeping the servants
on, for Harry had to make several flying trips back and forth. And he was glad
to let us have the house for a time, until he decided what to do with it. His
wife swears she will never come here again: and yet, they are reluctant to sell
it. I have spent a number of happy holidays here and so ... well, it was all
most opportune and providential ... and I am convinced that the climate will be
admirable for you." He was speaking in his professional tone, and I, nervous and
ill-at-ease, was glad to talk of my returning health and of other prosaic
matters. "When you are rested," he said, "in a day or two, we must go into
Havana--you will want an account opened there at one of the banks." That
reminded me of something that had been troubling me. "But it is not my money," I
began rather abruptly, and stopped. "It is," he assured me, "Your father has
been very generous with you and you need feel under no obligations to me--unless
you object to having me play the host a little until--later." I didn't know what
to answer, and blessed Fong's sleek black head, as slippered and silent, he slid
in to announce dinner. Norah had outdone herself for the "new Missis." And it
was pleasant in the softly lighted room, with the candles burning on the table,
shining across delicate old china and worn silver. My husband exerted himself to
be amusing. Our talk was all give and take, and there were even laughter awaking
echoes in the room. Dinner over, after I had made a face over the strong Cuban,
and Bill--it was still so difficult to call him that--had sent out word to Norah
that hereafter we would drink the sort of beverage I had been accustomed to, he
went to the piano again, and with a little snub-nosed pipe between his teeth,
sang ridiculous Bab ballads and played enchanting snatches of melody while, with
Wiggles on my lap, I dreamed before the fire. Father would have loved it.... I
missed him terribly. The music stopped. "Mavis...." he was beside me, something
in his hand. I turned, startled. "I didn't give you a wedding present," he said,
half-smiling, "but before we left I had just time to have this made for you." I
took the small, black leather case from his hand and opened it. My father's face
looked back at me, wonderfully living. Almost it seemed as if the gentle, strong
mouth would smile and speak. "I had it painted before--before the tide turned,"
said Bill, "from the picture he gave me." I closed my hands upon the miniature
and my eyes against the tears. "You are very good," I said falteringly. "I--you
couldn't have given me anything I could have cared for more." He stood, his
broad shoulders squared against the mantel, and looked at me gravely. "I hope,"
he said and stopped. Then, very evenly, he went on, "I hope you will try to be
happy here, Mavis." Happy! A sudden revulsion of feeling came over me. What use
had I for happiness? I had been almost stupefied, like an animal in the sun,
dreaming vaguely before the fire. But now....

"I will try to be--content," I told him. His eyes hardened, grew keen and cold
again. "Thank you," he said, not quite sincerely. We were silent a moment, until
Silas came in to get the orders for the following day. I hardly heard the
voices, talking so near me. It mattered so little what they, or anyone, said. I
thought of Green Hill, of Peter asleep near me.... I thought of father, in his
big woods, his old strength coming back to him ... and I thought of the letter
that had reached me on my wedding day ... my first love letter. I had not
answered it. For me, no "lyric hour" could exist. No, nor not even the dream of
one. Uncle John, I thought, would have told Richard Warren by now that I was
married. Mrs. William Denton....

My thoughts blurred into a half-dream. I was on a ship. Somewhere Mercedes
Howell was standing. I heard her calling from far off, "Billy, Billy!" I awoke
suddenly. Silas had gone and my husband was standing near me,

"You called me, Mavis," he was saying. I looked at him, at the great, strange
room, confused and half asleep. "I was dreaming," I said, and then, "a
nightmare." "Oh, I see!" he laughed a little. "You look like a child," he said
slowly, "with the firelight on your yellow hair and that flush in your cheeks."
I rose, tumbling Wiggles unceremoniously to the floor. "Good-night," I said.
"Good-night," he answered, his hands deep in his pockets, and then, as I turned,
"Sleep well, my little Make-Believe-Wife!" CHAPTER X

I had been asleep for several hours, I fancy, that first night in Cuba, when I
awoke to see the moonlight, like a living presence in my room. Across the floor
it lay in long, level bars of light. Not the iron barriers at my window could
keep it out. Silver it was, and never still, but quivering as if a heart shook
it. The scent of flowers came to me, and far off in what was probably the native
quarter, I heard a throbbing instrument touched very softly, and the sound of
singing. It was all so strange, I could scarcely believe myself awake. And
presently, in nightgown and bare feet, I went across the cool tiles to the
windows and looked out. The earth was silver under my eyes and the tall palms
delicately feathered with light. The singing died away to half a sob. The smell
of growing things was heavy and sweet on the air. It was all sheer beauty. A
little song began to weave itself in my brain. I had made songs before: almost
too shy to set down on paper they were. But here, in Cuba, where everything
seemed softness and release, I wondered if perhaps I could not sing with a
stronger voice, and shape my songs with pen and ink. What was it Richard Warren
had said about poets? And then, suddenly I knew that it was the thought of him
which had taken me out of sleep and sent me trembling to the window, with my
breast bare to the wonderful night. I knew that, once and for all, all beauty
must be inextricably woven with the thought of him who had signed himself my
"lover." It was then that I became aware that something was hurting me cruelly--
something cold and hard and forbidding. I crept back to bed with the marks of
the bars across my breast. In the morning I woke to find Peter sitting
crosslegged on my bed saying solemnly,

"They're blue! They're grey! No, they're open and they're brown!" Wide awake
now, I caught him to me, cuddled him close and then asked wildly,

"Oh-h, Peter!--what's that?" Not far from my window a raucous voice was saying,
"Bring me my coffee! Coffee! Norah! Hurry up!" "Perhaps it's Uncle Bill!" said
Peter, open-mouthed. "Of course it isn't, Peter," I said quite crossly, and
climbed out of bed. From my window, in the full, dazzling sunlight, I could see
where the kitchen made an L, and the screened kitchen porch from which that
terrifying voice emanated. "Hurry!" it was saying. "Gol dern! Coffee! Coffee!"
"Why, Peter," I cried, "it's a macaw! A beauty! I've never seen one before--only
pictures! Hurry and get dressed and let's go out and say good-morning to him!"
Sarah, apparently at home, and certainly composed, but rather too communicative
as to the habits of "heathen," appeared, to help me dress and to hustle Peter
into his own room. But before I was ready, a knock came at the door, and on its
heels, Norah, bearing fragrant coffee and hot, brown rolls. "Good morning, and
it's never _up_ ye are!" she said in astonishment, setting the tray down on a
little table which she spread with a white cloth. "Doesn't one get up in Cuba?"
I asked, laughing, as, in a negligee, I sat down to my breakfast. "Not yet," she
answered, "it's coffee ye have in bed, and then at eleven-thirty a real, big
breakfast-lunch. Tea's at four, and dinner's at eight--unless ye'd rather it was
different, ma'am," she added hastily. "Not at all," I assured her, "I think it's
a delightful arrangement. When in Cuba...." I began gaily. "Smoke Cubebs!"
finished another voice, and my husband's dark head appeared in the open doorway.
"Good morning, Mavis. How did you sleep?" "Beautifully," I told him, just a
little bit embarrassed as his tall, bathrobed figure wandered unconcernedly in.
"Another cup," he said to Norah, with a side-glance at me and a careless, "with
your permission." I nodded--I couldn't very well do anything else, with Sarah
there, and Norah beaming, and Peter dashing in to shriek loudly for milk. In the
general tumult, the macaw had started again,

"Norah!" it squawked. "Coffee! Coffee!" "For heaven's sake," I said, "what
sophisticated sort of a bird is that?" "That's Arthur," said Norah proudly, and
disappeared. Later, I left Bill and Peter exchanging pleasantries over the
breakfast table and went to the kitchen porch to watch Arthur being fed bread,
lavishly sopped in coffee, from a spoon. He was an utterly gorgeous bird, yellow
and blue, and "a great talker," as Norah informed me. Me, however, he regarded
for some time with a glassy eye, and merely reiterated his desire for strong
drink. Returning, I found my room empty and closing the door, proceeded, with
mixed emotions, to dress. Last night ... the moonlight and the surge of regret
and longing which had threatened to drown me, seemed very far away. And it was
mentally on tip-toe that I joined a white flannelled Bill for my first stroll
about my temporary domain. We were alone, Peter having long since appropriated
the services of Silas and gone forth with him to view the country. The sun was
very hot, and I tilted my parasol low over my face. Through avenues of palms we
walked to the big, red-roofed garage, and on to the little orange grove behind
the out-buildings. Beyond, the cane fields stretched, green and tall and waving.
Figures, stunted, wiry, moved in the fields ... far off I saw a patient donkey
stand, his back loaded with long lengths of cane tips. It was all hot and still,
clear-cut and unreal to look at. Silas, Peter and one of the natives came toward
us, Peter rapt at the tremendous flow of Cuban-Spanish which surged above his
small blonde head. They stopped to speak to us, Bill growing suddenly foreign
and gesticulating as he answered the bent brown man's greetings. "That's Juan,"
he told me, as we moved off. "Great old character. He has a daughter whom he
adores, a girl who must be sixteen now, I should judge. He used to beat her
unmercifully...."

"Horrible creature!" I said, with a shudder, my mind flashing back to that
beautiful, sinister fortress rising, towered, from the sea, a symbol and a
reminder....

Bill pushed his panama back from his broad forehead and whistled. "I don't
know," he said thoughtfully.... "After all, he beat her to keep her good." A
peacock, tail unfurled, minced colorfully toward us, down the white pathway. "To
keep her good!" I repeated scornfully, "with whipping?" "I'm not advocating it,"
he answered quickly, "but his motives are unquestionably admirable. And there's
a Spanish proverb, you may recall--it runs, tersely, 'A woman, a dog, and a
chestnut-tree, the more you beat them, the better they be!'" Wiggles, his eyes
on the stately departing peacock, pranced down the path toward us, and,
deflected by my whistle from his original, doubtless destructive purpose, leaped
gaily at my ruffles. "Did you hear that, Wiggles?" I asked him. "This is
decidedly no place for you!" But Wiggles, rolling happily in the grass, merely
snorted. A gong sounded from the house, and we went in to lunch. About two
o'clock, I was attacked by an overpowering languor. Twice, no less, I yawned in
Peter's face, in the midst of his thrilling description of "babies an' ladies
an' gentlemen, all brown, Aunt Mavis!" "Siesta, now!" remarked my husband
briskly. "Both of you! Off to bed!" "Bed!" I said, "in the middle of the day!"
Peter, but recently released from the burden of an afternoon nap, protested.
"Custom of the country," said Bill. "No getting around it. Couldn't if you
wanted to. Even Arthur is asleep." I listened. We were on the verandah, and all
about us was a stillness which was almost audible. On the white road beyond our
gates I saw a pair of oxen, toiling patiently up the hill. Even the birds were
quiet, only now and then a sleepy chirping drifted down the hot air. It seemed
as if a veil had been drawn over the land. My eyelids felt freighted, and I was
very tired. "Bed!" said Bill firmly. I left Peter to his tender mercies and went
indoors. My room was cool, and sweet with flower perfume. Sarah, yawning, came
when I rang, and unhooked my frock. As I lay down on the bed, I heard her say
something, bitterly, about "an unhealthy climate," but if she said more, I do
not know what it was, for I was fast and dreamlessly asleep. It was Arthur who
woke me, making the day hideous with his laughter. "Mother's darling!" he
announced, unctuously. "Pretty Arthur! Arthur! Arthur!" I turned over and felt
for my watch. Four o'clock! It was incredible. And equally beyond belief, the
fact that I was hungry again! I bathed and dressed, and then, wonderfully
rested, went out on the verandah. Fong and Wing appeared as if by magic and laid
the tea-table with iced tea, tiny round tomato sandwiches, and delectable
frosted cakes. And also, as if answering some compelling summons, Peter, bright-
eyed and red-cheeked, strolled out from the direction of Bill's room. It was
quite apparent that both of them had been asleep. "Tea?" I asked my husband, as
his tall figure loomed up behind Peter. "Certainly!" he said. "It's a necessity
in Cuba, not a mere excuse for sociability." All about us the birds were singing
again, and the palms looked new washed. "It looks as if it had rained," I said
in amazement. "Probably has," said Bill lazily, "Often does afternoons." What a
country! That night, I made my first little song. There was a thought somewhere,
back in my brain, a thought of moonlight and bars and a far-off singing. But it
was not clear yet. So, instead, I set to paper the first eight lines that Cuba
had made for me. _Fantasie_

The palms are listening to Pan        Across the Terrace of the Night,        A
Peacock-Moon, aloof and white,      Spreads wide a silver fan. The gilded stars
with laughter pass,        For I have caught an eerie sound,        The Peacock
droops ... just now, I found      A silver feather in the grass! And so the days
passed in blur of color and scent: of sun and sleep. Peter grew tanned, and so
did I. It was life in a fairy tale, and would have seemed quite perfect--if--.
But I had grown to believe that nothing was ever perfect. Perhaps it were wise
so, else we should all be loath even more to leave life. And the rift in the
lute could not wholly ruin the music. We had been there a week, I imagine,
before Mercedes Howell descended upon us. She came apparelled marvellously, in a
highly horse-powered chariot, and brought with her, as was eminently proper, her
parents. Mrs. Howell, nee Dolores Maria Cortez, was that pathetic thing, a woman
who had once been very beautiful. It was not hard to trace that beauty now, in
the high, clean-cut nose, the great languid eyes, the tiny, full, red mouth. But
her beauty was clouded with flesh, and her face a mask of powder. She sat on the
verandah drinking "pina fria," with her tiny, arched feet on a footstool, and
murmured polite accented thanks for the care we had taken of her dear child. I
glanced at Bill, over a tray of cakes, but he was looking at Mercedes. So I
turned, with a quickened heartbeat, to Mr. Howell. I found him charming, a tall,
silent man, brown from the sun, and very lined. He listened eagerly, I fancied,
to my chatter of home and snow and the quiet ebb and flow of life in a New
England village. But Cuba had marked him for her own. One saw that. And one saw,
too, his restless eyes moving from wife to daughter, questioning and troubled.
Mrs. Howell, before she left, asked us to some day attend the races with her. I
told her I was not well, not yet up to the excitement of crowds.... But Bill,
looking up quickly from his low-voiced conversation with Mercedes, said,

"Perhaps I can persuade Mrs. Denton, dear lady. It is something she surely
should not miss." Our glances met--crossed blades and stayed. Mine was hurt, I
know. It was cruel of him, in that insufferably self-assured tone, to brush
aside my wishes. When our guests had gone, I told him so. "But," he said, at the
doorway, "what you need more than anything, is contact with people, and to be
taken out of yourself. You have never seen anything of the sort before, and you
will not have the opportunity again. And the Howells are very good people to tie
up to. They have lived here many years and have not wholly discarded the
picturesque viewpoints and customs of the country, while at the same time,
entering into the life of the American set." "I didn't come here for society," I
said, "and I don't want to be bothered ... by anyone. Go alone to the races, if
you will, but I shall not." He shrugged. "Very well," he said. Two days later,
Bill drove the car into Havana, where he joined the Howells in a luncheon party
and went afterwards to the races with them. I wondered if they would not think
it very strange ... under the circumstances. And then I reflected that an extra
man, married or bachelor, is welcome almost anywhere. And during my brief
betrothal Bill had declared himself "quite free." I didn't care, of course,
where he went or with whom. It was none of my business. And it was the
loneliness and the longing for things that could never be mine, which oppressed
me and made me spend my sleepless afternoon siesta on a tear-damp pillow. When
Bill came home that night, I harkened politely to his account of his outing, and
then went early to my room. The poem which had made itself mine during my first
night in Cuba was clamoring to be written. And so I wrote it, at my table under
the window, conscious that no words in so unskilled a hand could set down my
feeling of imprisonment and regret. Finished, I laid it in the drawer where my
diary and the letters from Richard Warren were. It was a childish thing, but I
had made it, and it belonged to me ... and to one other. _Nocturne_

The moonlight slips in silence through the bars,          The iron bars which
lend a strange romance      To my wide windows, open to the stars,
Which, like gold fire-flies, imprisoned, dance      Caught in the dark mantilla
of the Night;          That flowing veil of jewelled, enchanting lace      From
careless, faery finger-tips flung light          To veil the tropic Moon's pale,
ardent face. My windows give on gardens dim, a-gleam          And freshly
fragrant with night-growing things,      On gardens where the sleeping flowers
dream          Till, cradled on the errant wind's cool wings      Their little
souls are wafted to far lands,          While all their dreams like incense,
float and rise      To where some garden goddess with white hands,          Gems
with bright dew her nurslings' sleep-kissed eyes. In shadowed groves, with
brilliant moon, blood-stained,          A bird is sobbing for a distant star,
In golden longing for the Unattained.... While at some window, pleading, a
guitar      Touched by brown fingers, throbs in serenade. And still the
moonbeams fling a silvern dart,      Straight through my window's iron
barricade.... Thus Love steals, silent, to the prisoned heart,      And,
smiling, with a mockery divine          Slips softly to some unguessed, secret
shrine,      To set the Altar Fires flaming high! *       *       *       *
*

I closed the drawer--spent, unsatisfied. The thing was halting and superficial.
It did not seem possible that there were people who could find release in words,
or peace in beauty. I had not reread Richard Warren's letters since my marriage.
And this was a night I dared not read them, for all that my resolve weakened.
For, in some inexplicable way, he had become very real to me--in Cuba. And I
knew that he could not be anyone save himself, could not be anything save strong
and fine and understanding. I took my trouble into Peter's room and sat with it
for a long time, by his bedside. But it was Dawn, before, in my cool, deep
alcove, I had ceased tossing and slept. CHAPTER XI

A week slipped by before we returned the Howells' call. Then, one brilliant
morning, I drove with Bill into Havana and together we transacted some
embarrassing monetary business at the bank. After which I expressed a desire to
go shopping. The sidewalks were quite impassable: so narrow that, for the most
part, the pedestrians, unhurried, strolled in the hardly wider streets. The
shops held me, fascinated. And I was not a little annoyed at the manner in which
Bill conducted my purchases--here a gorgeous feather fan, there a piece of lace:
and in another spot a deadly and lovely bit of Toledo workmanship, executed with
rare finesse on the hilt of a stiletto. Yet, I too, was determined not to return
to Green Hill without a trunk laden with gifts for my dear people there. Once, I
slipped away from my husband, who was deep in conversation ... of a political
nature, judging from the volubility of the shop-keeper who engaged his attention
... and, entering a store some five or six houses away, I tried out my absurd
and garbled knowledge of Spanish, with terrifying results. For the little lady
who guarded the delicate linens flooded me with such an impressive flow of
wholly unintelligible syllables, that, baffled, I beat an ignominious retreat,
followed by her to the very door. On the street I met Bill, hatless and
disturbed out of all proportion. "Please never do that again, Mavis," he
commanded, taking my arm. "I am not willing to have you roam the streets of
Havana alone." I drew my arm away. "I am quite capable of taking care of
myself," I said with frigidity, "especially in broad daylight." "This is not
Green Hill," he answered enigmatically, "nor yet New York." I started to reply,
but a glance from a passing dark-eyed individual, immaculately attired in white,
quelled me. I had never before encountered anything quite so sweeping, so
totally inventorying, so insolent. I had the immediate sensation that I was in
one of those nightmare dreams, in which one walks upon a public highway, quite
unclothed. Unconsciously, I cast a reassuring glance at my lavender linen, and
breathed again. I must have gasped, for Bill looked from my blazing cheeks to
the wayfaring gentleman. Something belligerent came into his eyes, and then he
looked into mine, lifting his brows. "You see?" he remarked. It was plain that I
had seen. I said nothing, but hastened my steps. "Where did you leave your hat?"
I asked sweetly. We retrieved the object and went to where we had left the car,
driving to a restaurant, high over the harbor, where, on the second floor, we
lunched deliciously, on palatable creatures sinisterly named Morro crabs, and
other delicacies. A gun boat lay, far off, at rest on the blue waters, and here
and there the black funnels of steamers lifted darkly against a burning sky.
People at neighboring tables bowed to my companion. Several came over to us and
were presented to me: a ruddy-faced Englishman, of military bearing, and with an
ineffable air of detachment from his surroundings: a member of the American
Legation, a lean, bearded man, with an unamerican name and a dark face,
reminding me of an ancient Spanish nobleman whose picture I had once seen: a
fair-haired, attractive boy, and others whom I have forgotten. And the meal
could hardly have been termed a tete-a-tete. I was heartily glad of it. Until
the calling hour came, we amused ourselves with a survey of the crowded
districts of the city. An appalling number of tourists passed and repassed us,
obviously bent on the same idle occupation. Pretty girls in bright sweaters and
tennis-shoes: fat mothers, similarly clad: and patient, bored men, silent or
loquacious, chewing black Cuban cigars, following their women folk in and out
the shops. And on the broader thoroughfares, I saw the Cuban women driving in
open victorias, powdered and wonderfully dressed, regarding the "touristen" with
slightly cynical, always beautiful, eyes. The Howells' great house, a stone
structure on the Vadado, was a revelation of formal and chilling luxury. As we
waited for Mrs. Howell to come to us in the drawing-room, Bill murmured under
his breath,

"'I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls!' Isn't it amazing?" Before I could answer,
our hostess swept in, accompanied, almost preceded, by an overpowering wave of
perfume. I had no time to reply, but found myself nodding at him in sympathetic
appreciation. All through the somewhat stilted conversation which followed, the
stately tea, and the meteoric appearance of Mercedes, as chatty and brilliant as
some tropical bird, I seemed to cling to the solidity and confident familiarity
of my husband as the one real thing in an unreal room. But, leaving, I was
forced to confess to myself the real friendliness and cordiality of these alien
people towards me, a stranger at their imposing gates. It was Mercedes who
explained to me that the feminine quality of Havana did not go a-shopping in
sport clothes. "You would not do it," she said, "on your Fifth Avenue. We do not
do it here. It is not the custom. We wear our smartest gowns and our highest-
heeled shoes." She made an entrancing little moue at the thought of sweaters and
rubber soles. And, with a feeling of commiseration toward my comfortably sport-
clad compatriots, dashing through Havana streets, lavish of exclamation and of
purse I was foolishly glad that something had prompted me to look my coolest and
prettiest before setting forth on the expedition. I remember that day well, for
it was on the same evening, back once more in the palm-enclosed gardens of my
new home, that Juan, the native workman appeared, shortly after dinner, a broad-
brimmed hat clutched to his sunken chest, his face working oddly, demanding to
speak to the doctor. I heard scattered words--"fiebre" and "agonia," and the
name "Annunciata" repeated again and again. And, finally, when Bill rose with a
quiet, brief sentence, I caught a long-drawn "ah-h" and "Dios! muchisimas
gracias, Senor!" from the old man. "Juan's daughter is ill," Bill told me
quickly. "I'm going with him. Shan't be long. Go to bed, Mavis, you look done
up. It's been a long day." Stopping only to get his hat and an emergency case,
he was gone with the excited, anxious old man, and I was alone in the big room.
Something he had said to me, far back in what now seemed the past ages, came to
me vaguely, something about the "poetry of healing." And I pondered upon it for
a long time, till a falling log roused me, and I went to bed. But not until I
heard a familiar step on the path did I consider sleeping. I slipped on a
negligee and went to my door. He was coming toward me, tired, I thought, and
troubled. "Bill!" I called softly. He stopped a moment, peering into the dim
light which streamed through the half-open door into the narrow, long hall which
separated our rooms. "Mavis!" and then, reproachfully. "Why aren't you in bed?"
"You've been gone hours," I said, conscious of a childish petulance. "How is
she?" With a hand on the latch of his own door, he considered me. I must have
looked a sight, half-asleep, my hair in braids down my thinly-clad back. But if
he thought so, he did not say it. "All right now," he answered. "But she was a
pretty sick girl. And, of course, they had applied home-made remedies, liberally
sprinkled with superstition! It looked like a case of ptomaine to me. Anyway,
she'll be on the road to recovery--and more beatings--tomorrow. It was," he
concluded with a smile, "a rather disconcerting evening. Half a dozen people
praying all over the place, and, when I left, kissing my hands! Lucky I've had
some experience in dealing with the natives before this." "I'm glad," I said.
"Poor old Juan!" "It was nice of you to wait up," said Bill suddenly. "Thanks!"
I became acutely conscious of the hour and of my appearance. "I--I was
interested," I said lamely. "Yes, that's it," he answered, a smile lighting up
his worn face, "it's not often that you--honor me." It was on the tip of my
tongue to reply, "my interest is solely in old Juan and his daughter." But I
didn't. It didn't seem quite fair, and wasn't strictly true. "Good-night," I
said, withdrawing, "I'm glad she's all right." From his closing door his words
floated back to me,

"_Buenas noches, cara mia!_"

Annunciata recovered, and to Sarah's outspoken disapproval I had her come often
to the house. She sewed excellently, and embroidered even better, and I was glad
to be able to give her small odds and ends of work to do. She was a lovely
thing: rounded, and supple, with a clear, creamy-brown skin. But chancing one
day to observe her mother on the road below the house I was smitten with a
prophetic horror for Annunciata's future. For the woman, who could not have been
more than thirty-five was as bent and gnarled as a Northerner of sixty, wrinkled
like a monkey and with something of that creature's patient, if malicious wisdom
in her eyes. I began to realize that Juan, too was according to our standards a
man still in his early prime. I was confused by such an ordering of Nature. I
said something of this to Bill but he only answered, knocking the ashes from his
pipe. "Southern fruit ripens quickly." "It doesn't seem fair," I said,
rebelliously, thinking of Annunciata and her slow, indolent grace. At sixteen I
--but perhaps I was not a good example. "Our girls are children at sixteen," I
told him. "You are a child at--what is it--twenty-two," he answered. I did not
pursue the personal application further. But it was not right that this young
thing should be a woman so soon, and so shortly destined to be old. Youth--and
Age. There are no timid blossomings, no gracious gradations in the South. We
were, very quietly, rather gay those days. I had been several times to luncheon
at the Country Club and had met a number of delightful Americans there. It was
all very new and exciting. And so invariably beautiful! And I was absurdly glad
that Bill ranked very high in the estimation of the other men, as a golfer.
Watching remnants of the game from the long, wide Club-porch, I was astounded by
the seriousness with which grown men pursued an innocuous white ball for miles
and miles of green turf. Once, in the late afternoon, together with a party of
several women including Mercedes Howell, I followed a match game for a time. The
exotic view, the stunted palms, the small lizards that ran almost from under our
feet, animate emeralds, the glimpse of blue water from a hill, enthralled me.
But I think that the small, black or tan boys who carried the clubs and who bet
their prospective fees with whole-hearted enthusiasm on the respective merits of
their employers amused me more than anything I had ever seen. And it was of
course solely from sympathy with my husband's ebony attendant that I knew a
certain triumph, when, long after we women had tired and returned to the club-
house, the men came in, hot and shrieking for cool drinks, proclaiming Bill as
victor. He had "saved the game by supernatural putting" his partner, the fair
haired boy I had met in the Havana restaurant, announced enviously. "You should
be proud of him," he added, sitting down beside me. "I am," I said dutifully.
Bill, en route to a mysterious thing called a locker, paused to cast a mirthful
look at me, and quite against my will I laughed. I am certain that the blond
one, who answered to the name of Bobby Willard, thought me demented. A number of
people called upon us almost every day, motoring out for luncheon or tea. Our
little household ran smoothly, and happily. Sarah and Nora gradually became
excellent friends, and, evenings, I would often hear Silas's low voice in the
kitchen, and going in to consult Nora, would surprise his lean form, sprawled in
a kitchen chair, two legs of it off the floor, smoking his inevitable cigar, a
coffee-cup at his elbow. To Wing and Fong, Sarah, to my astonishment,
perceptibly unbent. It was apparent that the two silent little Asiatics regarded
her with admiration and awe. Bill suggested that she was doubtless trying to
convert them. But I could not believe that! Peter was perhaps, the most whole-
heartedly happy of any of us. Never very far from Silas's side, he assumed a
lordly dictatorship over the natives, and picked up an amazing amount of
Spanish, in his excursions about the plantation. Silas taught him to ride, too,
on a lean little Cuban horse, and would ride out with him, in the early
mornings, tremendously amused at the grave manner in which Peter would return
the white-toothed salutations of the passersby. In those days, also, I elected
to oversee Peter's neglected education, and, with more ambition than efficiency,
would devote the half hour before his supper time to teaching him to read. Bill,
with his pipe and his newspaper, would attend these sessions, from a far corner
of the room. And I could not refrain from reflecting how, to an unenlightened
observer, very domestic we would appear. That the thought had not escaped Bill,
too, was apparent by a remark he made one evening. Coming to the mantel-piece,
he looked at the two of us for some time, and said,

"You make a charming picture, you two children. Exemplary," he added with a
smile. I made no comment, but bent lower over the page on which the pregnant
legend, "This is a cat," appeared in large letters, flanking an appropriate
illustration. Those were days, even, and uneventful in the larger sense. There
were varying episodes, incidents, which however did not break into the
continuity of a life that seemed a half-waking dream. Once, I went fishing with
Bill and Bobby Willard. It was pleasant, drifting over the peacock-blue waters,
and of our not inconsiderable catch nothing remains in my memory save the almost
unnatural beauty of certain gorgeous fish, colored red and blue and purple, with
little sail-like fins. I had my first swimming lesson in many years, at that
time too. And the picture of the beach, the feel of the velvet-soft, brilliantly
blue water, the laughing people and the many children, stayed with me for a long
time. At my second dip, I actually swam three strokes, not, however, without
Bill's solidly protective arm. He swam magnificently himself. Mercedes Howells,
transformed into a most seductive mermaid by a bright green bathing suit, was
most outspoken in her admiration. "What a wonderful figure," she said, in a
wholly audible aside to me. I was forced to agree, but swallowed a good deal
more water than was comfortable in the process. Bill, in spite of his vigorous
exploits in the water, seemed content to spend most of his swimming hour with
Peter and me. But after he had sent us to the bathing pavilion to dress, he swam
far out to join Mercedes, and when I came from my cubicle again, they were just
coming out of the water together, a splendidly matched pair, laughing, vital. A
curious languor came over me as I watched them walking across the beach. "You're
tired," said Bill, dripping before me. "A little," I admitted. So after that, I
swam rarely. The ride in from Guayabal was long and tiring. And once or twice a
week, I stayed at home, while Bill went forth in the motor, to golf and swim,
coming back in time for dinner. I was never bored. There were letters from
Father to answer: a difficult diplomatic task; letters too, from the Goodriches,
who were dashing about the Continent at a breath-taking speed. Peter had half an
album filled with postcards before his parents had been on the other side two
weeks! And of course I had to take innumerable snapshots with the little kodak
Bill bought me in Havana, in order to pictorially report Peter's progress. Uncle
John wrote often, sometimes to Bill, sometimes to me, and now and then to us
both jointly. The advent of the mail was a real joy. No one seemed to forget us,
everyone demanded an immediate reply. And it was difficult not to put off letter
writing until the morrow. For I had not been in Cuba more than twenty-eight
hours before the "manana philosophy" had laid hold of me. In my secret drawer a
little pile of poems grew. I was amazed at the way the songs came to me, sang in
my brain and would not be still until I had put them on paper. In my heart, I
harbor a timid ambition of one day showing them to Uncle John. If he would
publish them, privately, I could send a copy to Richard Warren. After all--they
were his: his and Cuba's and mine own. Between tea and dinner, the days when
Bill was not at home, I would walk. Sometimes with little Peter, or with
Annunciata, sometimes alone, save for little Wiggles. Little by little I grew to
know the natives by name and station: went, even into their one-roomed houses,
dark and smoky, thatched with palm leaves, and odorous with charcoal stoves. One
amusing acquaintance I made was that of old Manuel, who lived not for from our
gates. Annunciata took me there, affirming that of all the Guayablan sights,
this was one I must not miss. Bill was horrified to hear of my call at Manuel's
pitifully poor dwelling. But he went there himself later, to see if in any way,
he could alleviate the very obvious poverty and probable suffering of the
ancient creature. For the tradition had it that Manuel was one hundred and
twenty years old. Certain it was that he remembered Havana when it was little
more than a cow-pasture. Age had shrunken him to the stature of a child, but his
eye were still bright, his features cleancut, his grey hair and beard still
curling and vigorous. The village people took a certain pride in their ancient,
and he did not lack for visitors. Propped up on a make-shift bed, wrapped in
rags, from which his bare thin legs protruded, he received me with great
dignity. And we talked for fully half an hour: that is to say, Annunciata
talked, and Manuel talked, and now and then the former would translate a phrase
or two into her scanty English. It was from Bill, however, that I heard most of
the old man's story. It was on one of my solitary excursions that the sudden
night surprised me, a quarter of a mile from home. The smoke-blue rim of
mountains grew black and menacing, and the song of the light winds in the palms
turned to a sinister whispering. With Wiggles at my hurrying heels, I fairly
fled through the night, ashamed of my unreasoning terror. A group of Rurales,
the native soldiers, passed me with a clatter of hoofs. Later, a bare-footed
native, riding saddleless, singing in a curious, eerie monotone, to ward off the
evil spirits, rode slowly by. There was a heavy perfume in the air, and a young
moon swung delicately into view. But I had no heart for beauty, and almost
stumbling into the hedge of Spanish Bayonets which fringed our property, I came
through the open gates into the light from the house, with a half-sob of relief,
and an exceedingly youthful fear of justifiable chastisement. But it was some
ten minutes after I had come home, that I heard the car, with Bill at the wheel,
swing up to the portico. That evening, discussing the past day, I refrained from
mentioning my little adventure. For it was an adventure, mysterious, strange,
and somehow terrifying. The evenings were pleasant. We read a great deal, aloud,
and I was surprised to find my husband no mean critic, widely read, and with
keen appreciation. We sat, always before the fire, and much of the time I would
forget to listen to the sense of the words, hearing only the sound of the
attractive, flexible voice, and watching the flames on the big hearth. I never
wearied of that. There was a wonderful poem in the logs, flowering blue and
rose, gold and scarlet: charring to white and red, which seemed like some
extraordinary fungus-growth: singing and flickering, intensely alive in
disintegration. And so the days drew into March, and still we lingered. Bill,
persuaded by neighbors that even May was bearable in Cuba, spoke of staying at
least until the middle of April. I did not care. Father was still in Canada, and
Green Hill would have been empty without him. It was a Lotus-eater's life and I
was content. The sight of the great, purple orchids, fragile and almost
unbelievably beautiful, clinging to the palm-trees, was enough to keep me happy
for a whole day. To look from the windows through the luxuriance of the
bourginvilla vines to the golden-freighted orange-trees was a rare delight. To
see the cane-fields in the wind, the hibiscus under a noon sun, the peacocks
pacing the white walks before sunset, was to live a poem. If, now and then, on
still nights, a restlessness and nostalgia for something keener, sharper,
something unnamable and unknown, would seize me, it would vanish again before
the breathless, expectant dawn. And, if one grew melancholy, there was always
Arthur to turn to--a bird, philosophic and unexpected, who had developed a feud
with Wiggles. To watch the two of them, Arthur resplendent and mocking on his
perch, Wiggles, a black lump of outrage dashing up and down before the door of
the wire cage, which was as big as a small room, was a sight to dispel dull
care. And from someone, Arthur had learned endearing names. "Pretty darling!" he
would articulate, his head flirtatiously to one side, his beady eyes fixed on
mine, his claw extended with quite the grand manner. And, when, nettled by his
tone, I would advance to the cage, he would slide off to the other end of his
perch and demand bleakly, "Coffee! Gol dern! Bow wow wow!" a climax that never
failed to arouse Wiggles to frenzy. And so, between beauty and laughter,
firelight and sunshine, we trod, all unknowing, perilously close to tragedy.
CHAPTER XII

CACTUS

Twisted, deformed, and stretching thorny hands      To mock the golden beauty of
the South,      Embodied Evil, set in glowing lands      Like some black curse
within a lovely mouth,      The sullen cactus, lone and brooding, stands. Yet
Earth, All-Just, All-Wise, All-Tender, deems      Her crippled offspring worthy
still to bear      The crown of perfect blossoms: as beseems,      Some dark
misshapen souls, in secret wear      The splendid Flower of their silent Dreams!
It was, of course, the tall cactus, to the left of the house, which set me to
singing. For a long time it had affronted me. Pallid, sickly, abnormal,
flowering suddenly into crimson blossom, it was for me, an actual blot on the
lovely landscape gardening of the Palms. But one day I said something of this to
Bill, and he said,

"It may start out in ugliness, but it's rooted in strength and ends in beauty,
doesn't it?" This gave me "furiously to think." In an early letter to me,
Richard Warren had said something very much the same, not, however, apropos of
cactus plants. And here was my matter-of-fact, mocking husband preaching the
same doctrine of "beauty everywhere." After that, I tried to make friends with
the uncouth cactus, and, as so often happens, grew quite attached to it. Nights,
it stood like a sentinel ghost, its deformities softened, and its flowers
courageous and gay in the moonlight. My growing sense of comradeship with Bill
was materially increased at that half-minute remark of his. We were really quite
friendly, by that time, playing together like two children, not much older than
Peterkins, and the rather ironic attitude toward me which I had so resented,
seemed to lessen, or at least to be less noticeable. If it hadn't been for Peter
--or, if it hadn't been for me--and if Bill hadn't said--

Anyway, our even, sunny life and relationship came to an abrupt end. On a day
when Bill elected to golf with Mr. Howells--Mercedes had developed wonderfully
as a gallery of one!--I chose to stay at home and attend to a number of small
neglected duties. The day before we had spent near Mariano, with one of the
secretaries at the American Legation and his wife. We had had a delightful day,
in a most fascinating house, all cool, wide patios, and flat roofs, over which
the palms waved. It seemed to me as if I were not in Cuba or even Spain, but
somewhere in the Far East. At tea-time, the wife of the Chinese Minister called,
a tiny lady, exquisite and low-voiced, looking far too young to be the mother of
seven sturdy children, as she proudly assured me she was. To hear her talk of
"my boy in Yale" seemed positively absurd. It was, as I have said, a delightful
day, but tiring, and I was content to stay at home when the next day dawned,
very hot and still. Peter rode in the morning and chased, hatless, about the
grounds in the afternoon. He had made many friends among the _muchachos_. I saw
him at luncheon and then, not until after tea. Something, perhaps the very
oppressive atmosphere, made me restless and out of sorts. I started about half-
past four, to walk aimlessly toward the gates and encountering Peter and Wiggles
invited them to accompany me. Afterwards, it occurred to me that Peter seemed
very quiet. He walked along beside me, his hands in the pockets of his sailor-
suit, with none of his usual flow of general misinformation. But I was
preoccupied more so than I had been in weeks. Father had been in my thoughts all
day, and back in my brain there were other thoughts--vague and unformed, but
curiously disturbing. I was beset with a desire, a longing for something--I knew
not what. It was, perhaps, a species of Spring-fever, of wanderlust, which
seized upon me and set me to walking now over-fast, now languidly. We had gone
perhaps a half a mile when a strange little sound escaped from Peter's lips. For
the first time I looked at his little mouth, a white line stood out against the
dark red color. "It's the heat," I said to myself, and asked him anxiously,

"Do you feel very warm, Peterkins?" His answer was almost inaudible, and he
drooped wearily against my side, as we stood there in the white road, with the
distant fringe of mountains almost dancing under quivering waves of heat.
Wiggles, panting, looked at us anxiously, his scrap of a tongue between his
crooked teeth. "We'll go right home," said I, feigning an unconcern I did not
feel. I took his hand and was terrified at the burning touch of it, realizing
that the child was ill, perhaps seriously so, and that we were half a mile from
home. Something like despair came over me. It was out of the question that I
could carry Peter--he was a tall boy for his age and very heavy. It only
remained to put my arm about him and to coax him along, a slow and painful task.
We had covered the first half of the distance when I heard a car behind us, and
turned hopefully to hail it. And when the long green body shot clearly into
sight, I was suddenly faint with relief. Bill, coming back early from the club!
Bill, at the wheel, his hat off, and the wind blowing his dark hair. The car
stopped. "Mavis! It's too hot for you and Peter to be out. I didn't play--what's
the matter?" I lifted Peter in my arms. "It's Peter, Bill," I said. "He's--ill."

In two minutes I was in the back seat with the half-delirious boy in my arms,
and Bill was urging the car to her utmost speed, and we were suddenly home.
Between them, Bill and Sarah got Peter into bed. I was too frightened to be of
any use. I kept thinking of the little Reynolds boy who had died of fever in
that very house ... and of Peter's mother. But I didn't dare think of her long,
because I could see her eyes so plainly as they looked when she said,

"You'll take good care of Peter for me, won't you, Mavis?" Good care of Peter!
For a week I had hardly thought of him. I kissed him mornings and nights, gave
him his lessons, listened to his chatter, not really heeding. And I had been
away so much, drunken with my new freedom, my strength, blooming like a plant in
the climate that tried so many other people sorely: utterly wrapped up in my own
sensations and impressions. I went softly into the room Peter shared with Sarah.
It was a different boy tossing on the bed, with that curious flush, the groping
hands, talking incessantly, incoherently. Bill, bending over him, looked up as I
came in. His face was strange to me too. No, not quite. I had seen that intense,
almost grim, look on that face once before--as I came out of a dark hour of
agony and looked, for the first time, into two steel-blue eyes. "Oh, what is
it?" I asked very low. "Is he dangerously ill?" "A touch of sun," he answered.
"Yes, he's pretty sick." There was nothing I could do. All that night I went in
and out of the room, glad if they would let me bring them little things: water,
a glass, a spoon. It made matters worse to find Nora praying loudly in the
kitchen, and Silas, his lean face all broken up into soft lines of anxiety and
sorrow, watching up with her. The news spread, in some indeterminable fashion.
During the night, a number of the men on the plantation came to the door to ask
for news. Peter had endeared himself to half Guayabal--

About three o'clock in the morning, worn out, I went into the bathroom for
something for Bill. As I did not reappear with it he came to look for me
presently, and found me, huddled against the wall, my hands at my throat, an
abject picture of cowardice and fright. I was not alone in the room. A few yards
away from me, on the tiled floor, a spider was sprawling, regarding me with
almost human, terribly malicious eyes. The creature was as large as a tea-cup,
black, horribly spotted with red, it's many legs twitching with vicious life.
"Are you ill?" Bill asked as I pointed with a shaking hand to the spider, which
at the sound of another step had taken itself quickly to another corner of the
room. My husband put his arm about me, and conducted me safely to my own room,

"You poor child!" was all he said, and closed the door into the bathroom. A few
minutes later I heard him occupied in there, with what seemed, or sounded, like
a golf-club. There was a scuffle. Once I heard Bill curse, and then finally
silence. Presently, my door opened and Bill came in. "I've disposed of your
visitor," he said, quite cheerfully. "Nasty mess. And Peter is better. He'll be
all right, I'm sure, only we shall have to be very careful of him after this.
And now, I want you to go to bed or I shall have another patient on my hands." I
went to bed; but not until the rain came, about five, and Peter's room became
quiet, did I fall into a troubled sleep. It was past noon before I woke. Sarah
looking very tired came in with some coffee and the assurance that Peter was out
of all danger and was sleeping quietly with the fever broken. "Oh, Sarah," I
said, "you haven't had any sleep." "Dr. Denton sent me to bed at five," she
answered, "but he never took his own clothes off until about eight. I slept in
the guest room, the other side of Peter's, and when I woke, about seven, again,
I got some coffee for him from Norah. And he left me with Peter then, and went
into his own room." "Is he asleep now?" I asked getting out of bed. "No, for I
heard the water running in his bath, half an hour ago." While I was dressing I
heard Bill in Peter's room. Heard too, with what gratitude, Peter's own normal
voice, weak but sane again. I slipped on a frock hastily and went in to them. Of
the two, I thought that Bill looked the worst, very white and drawn. After
luncheon when Wing had disappeared in the pantry, Bill told me that Peter had
had a very close call. "I don't like to blame anyone, of course," he said, with
knitted brows, "but if Sarah didn't have sense enough--well, Silas has lived in
Cuba long enough to have known that the heat yesterday was sufficient to knock
out a strong man, much less a little boy, if he became over-tired." "I'm afraid
it was my fault," I answered, slowly, "Peter was riding all morning and romping
all afternoon. And then I took him for a walk--"

"Did you know then that he had been playing hard all day?" Bill asked me. "Why,
yes," I said honestly, "but I was thinking about something else, and--"

Bill's hand went out in an impatient gesture. "Didn't _you_ feel the heat?" he
asked. "I suppose so," I answered, "but I had been in the house all day--"

"And Peter hadn't!" he finished for me, somewhat irrelevantly, I thought. I was
silent. "It's incredible," said my husband, with extreme irritation, "that you
shouldn't have noticed." "But--" I began, and stopped. It was true. I hadn't
noticed; and it was equally true that the fact was incredible. Conscious of my
guilt, I was still able to be resentful of my husband's tone. "Do you think for
a minute--" I began indignantly, with no clear idea of how I was going to
finish: so perhaps it was just as well that I was interrupted. "I don't think
anything at all," he said, "but I _know_ that I shouldn't have gone away. Had I
known the day was going to turn out such a scorcher, I would have stayed." His
tone implied that what he should have known was that I was not fit to be trusted
alone. I didn't like the implication, and I said so. After which, at the end of
ten minutes, I had positively flounced from the room, after the manner of our
grandmothers, and left him sitting there. I didn't see him again until dinner.
It was not a particularly joyful meal. During the rather silent progress of
dinner, I had the grace to be rather ashamed of some of the things I had said.
In the cooler light of reason, I looked on a number of the statements I had made
and found them unconvincing. Our sporadic conversation was of trivial things.
Not until Wing had departed kitchenward, and Bill lighted his after-luncheon
cigarette, was our late unpleasantness alluded to. "Mavis," said my husband,
with a hint of the old, ironic smile I had not seen in many weeks, and which
immediately alienated me from him, "I'm afraid that we were both a little tired
and over-wrought this morning. And for anything I said which may have offended
you, I am quite ready to ask your pardon. However, it is, perhaps, just as well
that I understand the way you feel about me. I am, admittedly then, a 'brute':
and I have 'presumed' to criticize you, unfairly and without cause--or so you
have said. Let that pass. The most important thing is that you are becoming
bored with this solitary confinement, and it so happens that it is within my
power to offer you more congenial companionship. I had a letter this morning
from Wright Penny--you recall him, do you not? He is in Santiago, and proposes
to come to Havana and run out to see us. If it is agreeable to you, I shall wire
him to come on prepared to stay, and to return North with us when we go. Would
you like that?" Seven times seven little devils entered into me then, and I
clasped my hands on the table and made my eyes round with pleasure. "I would be
delighted," I said, sincerely enough. "I liked Mr. Penny--what little I saw of
him. And I am sure that he would be a congenial house-guest." "Our first,"
remarked Bill, with a wholly wicked grin. And I felt as if we had slipped back
several months, to a time when enmity was the only possible thing between us,
and our weeks of pleasant comradeship were the shadow of a dream. There must be,
I thought, a very real antagonism for one another in our natures: for otherwise,
so deep and unspoken a breach could not have been made in ten minutes of foolish
anger. "Wright says," Bill continued, "that he hesitates to intrude upon our
'happy honeymoon hours.' A pretty alliteration. It is not necessary, I hope, to
inform him of his mistake." "He may have eyes--" I suggested. "Being a poet," he
objected, "he is probably myopic." I ignored this. "I must find him some pretty
girls to play with," I said idly. "Mercedes," said Bill, "might fit the case." I
was conscious of a sudden flare of anger. "Bobby Willard's little sister," I
said, "seems more Mr. Penny's type. She is very gentle and lovely." "Meow?" said
my husband, with a rising inflection. The bright color came to my cheeks. "Not
at all," I said indignantly. "I like Mercedes Howell very much. But--"

Bill raised an eyebrow, smiled at the glowing end of the cigarette in his hand
and said nothing. He got up from the table and went toward the door. "Have Miss
Willard out here by all means," he said, "but she's milk and water. For my own
amusement, in my own humble opinion, Mercedes is more stimulating to the Tired
Business Man." He stopped to light another cigarette. "Of course," he said,
through the first breath of smoke, "Wright will naturally suspect you of match-
making. All young, happily married women have that benign tendency." I was
stricken dumb with sudden hatred, and before my lips could open again, Bill,
with Wiggles at his heels, went out into the sunshine, whistling the challenging
song from the first act of "Carmen." I went to my room and wrote a letter,
which, however, I was destined never to send, to Richard Warren. Peter's
convalescence kept me occupied for several days. He had a number of sympathetic
callers, from Annunciata to the Howells. I told Mercedes that I would expect her
out often to amuse our impending poet, and she preened her bright plumage a
little and vowed that a new man would be a "God-send," looking at Bill the
while. At which, with that long-drawn "Me-ow!" still ringing in my ears, I asked
her and her parents to join us at dinner the night following Mr. Penny's
expected arrival. On the morning of that arrival Bill tossed over to me a letter
from Uncle John Denton. "There are messages in it for you," he said, and opened
his long-stale New York _Times_. I read the letter, and, as I returned it to the
envelope, saw a second sheet which I had not noticed. Uncle John often sent me
little enclosures in Bill's letters. Innocently I drew it out, unfolded it, and
started to read. "Damn!" said my husband without apology, reaching my side in
two long steps, "I thought I had taken that out. Give it to me, Mavis!" But I
had already read enough. "Have you unmasked 'Richard Warren' for Mavis yet?"
wrote Uncle John, "and how does she like being the wife of her favorite poet?
When are we to have the manuscript of the new volume? You're long overdue now,
you miserable creature!" "Give it to me!" said Bill. I handed the note to him
without a word. I couldn't have spoken, had my life depended on it. He followed
me to the door of my room. "Mavis!" he said once or twice. I put my hand on the
latch. "Don't speak to me!" I said. In my room, I sat down by the window and
tried to think what it all meant. For a time, I was incapable of directed
thought. My dream came to me, the dream I had had so long ago, that nightmare in
which my unknown poet had changed to the semblance of the man I had met and
disliked on meeting, William Denton. So it was true then! After a little, I
thought of my letters, my silly, fragile girl-dreams, written for the One,
mercilessly exposed to the eyes of the Other. In my desk drawer lay yet another
letter, unmailed, thank God! A letter in which I had said I wanted him back,
wanted the comfort and the understanding his letters had brought me once again.
Fool--fool and blind! And all the time, this talented trickster had known and
laughed: had written me the friendly, lovely letters with his tongue in his
cheek: had even spoken to me of love! I went over to the drawer and took out my
Diary. All lies! Some day I must burn it. But not yet. It was like a living
thing to me. The little blue book fell open and certain words leaped out at me:
"Diary, I have found him.... I've the heart and brain and beautiful spirit of
him, and all day long his name makes a happy spot in my consciousness. Richard
Warren! Richard Warren!..." I closed the book and laid it back with the letters.
A great sheaf of thin, typewritten pages ... all lies....

Uncle John had been in the plot then: and Wright Penny. It was very clear to me
now. I took from my neck the jade lucky-charm which "Richard Warren" had sent me
and flung it out of the window. Wiggles, prowling beneath, barked happily and
set out to retrieve it. Even Wiggles was not mine! Nothing I had had was mine! I
laid my head on the desk and cried bitterly. It's hard to see the dreams go: to
watch the castle you have builded on the shifting sands crumble and fall. These
things had meant so much to me, ill and prisoned, and had continued to make a
little, inner life for me, after the physical prison doors had opened. If only
by a miracle I could have been back in Green Hill, in my rose-grey room, never
to walk again, and with Richard Warren's letters coming to me, out of the
Unknown. Then I remembered ... there was no Richard Warren. CHAPTER XIII

After a long time, I heard a knock at my door. "May I speak with you, Mavis,
just for a moment?" said my husband. I steadied my voice with an effort. "I
can't imagine that you have anything of interest to tell me," I answered, "Isn't
it time you went to Havana to meet Mr. Penny?" There was an exclamation, and
suddenly the door was flung open and Bill came in. "Look here," he said, "we've
got to have this thing out once and for all." I was standing, my wet
handkerchief in a tight, hard wad in my hand. "Please leave my room," I said
coldly. "Not till I've said what I want to. I'm sorry you found out--about the
book. I was going to tell you--later. But now that you have, we can't ignore it.
It was the merest coincidence that I met you before your first letter came. And
I was deep in it, before I realized that you were bound to dislike me, as I
really am,--and then I couldn't tell you. Things you said in your letters made
it absolutely impossible for me. And for reasons of my own, I had preserved my
incognito very carefully. Only Uncle John knew, and Wright and my Mother--and--
your Father--"

Father! And his mother! The little "red-haired, blue-eyed" lady who had written
to me: to whom I had confided my admiration for her son! Minute by minute, shame
was flooding me: shame and a terribly tired feeling. "Does your mother know--?"
I asked. "That we are married? No," he answered, "I had reasons for not telling
her just yet. She knows I am in Cuba, of course. You have never asked me about
my people so I hardly thought it worth while to mention her to you--under the
circumstances." "I'm sorry it has turned out as it has," he said, after a pause.
"You don't understand--"

I could agree with him there. "I'm afraid not," I said. He lifted his shoulders
ever so slightly, a gesture of defeat. "Please--" he said, but something in my
eyes stopped him. His face grew very hard. "I think," he said, "that you are
making a mountain out of a molehill. A range of mountains. Because I wrote a few
verses that struck your fancy: because you did not like the actual, flesh-and-
blood author: because I preferred to hide behind my nom-de-plume, and because
you choose to honor Richard Warren with your friendly regard--" he shrugged
again, "and because, perhaps foolishly, I want to be liked for what I am, and
not for what I set down on paper--I preferred to play what I fancied was a very
charming little game--and now you accuse me of having cheated." "I have nothing
of the sort," I answered. "But did it not occur to you, during your 'little
game' that you were playing with an opponent wholly innocent of the fact that
she was playing blindfolded, and that the cards were--stacked?" We both heard
the car drive up to the front door. "Well," he said, "my cards are on the table
now, Mavis." "The car is waiting," I said. "You had best go. As far as I am
concerned, the game is over. Richard Warren, as I knew him, never existed,--only
a very clever young doctor who amused himself at my expense. Here," I said,
turning to the open drawer, "are your letters. Take them, please. They would
make good reading of the type which is called 'light fiction.'" "Careful," said
Bill, under his breath, and his hand shot out and caught my arm, "careful,
Mavis! You are going just a little too far." I twisted my arm away. "And you--?"
I asked furiously, "and--_you_?" "I beg your pardon," he said, and the clear
flame of anger leaped into the steel-blue eyes. The door closed behind him. I
stood for a moment, quite still, rubbing the bruised place on my arm which his
fingers had made. Richard Warren's letters lay on the floor. I caught them up,
hurried to the living room. There was a burning log on the hearth, and under
Bill's hostile eyes, as he gathered up his hat and gloves, I put the sheets in
the fire. They writhed, shot high in flame, and blackening, fell to ashes.
Something in me cried out at that--they had been so dear, so dear. "Have you my
letters?" I asked him, rising and dusting off my hands. "No," he replied, "I
never keep letters." It was the one redeeming fact that had come to my knowledge
that day. I mentioned this, and went past him, into my own room again. It seemed
to me that, in an hour's space, I had lived many years and grown very old. When
I heard the car drive off, I went out on the verandah with Peter and played with
him for a time before I dressed. I wanted to look my prettiest for Mr. Penny.
And I blessed a kindly Providence that he was to interrupt my wholly impossible
_menage-a-deux_. And one determination I made: as soon as I returned to Green
Hill, I would take steps to be free again. Father would soon get used to the
idea: it would hurt him, of course, but someone is always being hurt. Travel--
perhaps Father would take me to the Continent. But never again to the tropics. I
had had enough of their soft, friendly ways and their treachery. When it was
necessary that Uncle John Denton be told of the predestined fiasco of my
marriage, I for one, would not shirk it. Bill was his nephew, but I was the
daughter of his dearest friend, and he had cared for me since I was a baby.
Sometimes, quite recently, I had fancied that he had cared, too, for my mother.
But at all events, he would not be angry with me when he knew. Of that much I
was certain. It was a very cordial and sparkling hostess who met her guest and
her husband at the door. I had put on the little white voile which, of all my
daytime frocks, I thought the most becoming. I had dressed my hair high and
thrust a wonderful orchid through my mauve belt. My cheeks were burning and I
had a moment of stage-fright as I heard the wheels of the car on the drive. It
would not be easy to carry it off, to hide my hurt and my shame--but pride helps
wonderfully, always, in any situation, and I was quite satisfied with the girl
who looked back at me from the long mirror in the living-room, as I passed it on
my way to the verandah. But although all the stains of crying had gone from my
eyes and left them bright, they were different eyes than the ones which had read
the first lines of Uncle John's letter. Brown eyes, and big--but with all the
dreams washed from them. Perhaps it was better so. "A very hearty welcome, Mr.
Penny," I said, smiling, as our slight, blonde guest untangled himself from his
bags and jumped to the step, "it's good to see you again." "For heaven's sake,
Mrs. Denton," he expostulated, not heeding my greeting, but taking both my hands
in his, "don't ruin my first impression of this ripping place and of this
miraculous You by pinning that awful label on me. Do you think," he begged,
"that you could manage 'Wright'?" "In fair exchange for 'Mavis,'" I answered,
smiling. "You're on!" he said, dropping my hands after a vigorous clasp, "that
is to say, if Bill has no objection." Bill turned from a colloquy with Wing and
Silas and waved benevolently in our direction. "Not an objection," he answered
gaily. "Mavis has me trained. Her word is, naturally, my law." If that was the
tone he wished to adopt, I was convinced that here, at least, was a game which
two could play. "Bill is a very satisfactory husband," I confided to Wright,
pleasantly. "He and I have discovered the best basis possible for matrimony."
"What's that?" asked Wright, as we went into the living-room. "Lord, you lucky
people, what a wonderful house!" "Isn't it?" I said, and then, answering the
question, "A mutual platform of Liberty, Independence and--"

"Love!" said Wright, triumphantly. "How did you guess it?" asked Bill, following
his guest. I laughed, a little hysterically, and bade Bill show Wright to his
room. After which, with a sense of having scored, I waited for the men near the
dining-table, luncheon having been announced. "We're late today," I said, as we
all sat down. "I postponed the sacred meal a little to allow you to arrive."
"It's only one-thirty," objected Wright, looking at his watch. "I know, but one
does things differently in Guayabal," I said, explaining our usual routine.
"Some life!" said the newly initiated. "Suits me. Let's stay on here forever. I
imagine," he went on, turning to include us both in his remark, "that nothing
could have been more perfect for the _lune de miel_." Bill was silent, but I
agreed hastily. "And now tell us about Santiago," I said. The recital occupied
most of the conversational part of the meal pleasantly enough. "See my pretty
senoritas?" asked Bill, passing the cigarettes. "Cuban?" inquired Wright, taking
one. "That's good--I've developed a passion for them. No, not a senorita. All I
saw were at least ninety and weighed a ton." "I've got just the girl for you!"
said Bill and I, simultaneously. Wright laughed. "The same one?" he asked, with
interest. "No, our tastes differ," I answered, "the one I have in mind is little
and round and brown-haired. She's delightful." "And mine," said Bill, "is just
the right height, just the right shape, and as dark-haired and creamy-skinned as
a Spanish princess. She is half Spanish, too, which means--temperament." "Very
interesting," said Wright. "Bring 'em both on. But I like amber-colored hair and
brown eyes myself. Did you corner the market on the combination, Bill?" "Of
course," answered Bill gravely, "there aren't two like Mavis. That mould was
broken." "Lucky for me," agreed Wright, sighing. "I want to stay a carefree
bachelor. I'm susceptible enough, Lord knows,--and very guileless. But my
appearance protects me, as well as a certain modesty, not to say timidity, of
manner. I've not your looks, nor your way with the wimmin, you handsome
bridegroom," he concluded affectionately, smiling at Bill. "Do tell me," I
asked, leaning back in my great, carved chair, quite conscious that it served as
an effective background for my hair, "about Bill's past. I can't get a word out
of him on the subject." There was a spark of admiration in the glance Bill shot
me--an involuntary tribute. "Wait till we're alone," whispered Wright,
mysteriously. "I could a tale unfold--! Enough to turn your hair grey. Broken
hearts all over the place--he just stepped on 'em. Anonymous letters, begging
for a lock of hair or an old glove! There have been times when your husband,
Madame, has been forced to assume a disguise!" "You colossal idiot," said Bill
amiably. "Don't listen to him, Mavis," urged Bill's best friend. "Listen to me
instead!" "I'm willing to be convinced," I answered. "And now that you're both
on your second cigarette, shall we walk about the place a little? Bill," I went
on, turning to him, very sweetly, "would you mind running to my room and getting
my big, lavender shade hat--? It's right on the bureau." For a moment I thought
that he would shake me. I knew he wanted to. But, instead, he swung obediently
away and took his revenge in a careless "All right, dear!" as he went off.
"Isn't he a peach!" mused Wright aloud, watching admiringly the broad-shouldered
figure across the room. "You've known him long?" I asked, in order to avoid
answering. "Roommates at Princeton," he replied. "Those were the good old days!
There never was a more popular man in college than old Bill! I basked in
reflected glory all the time. He was always the King Pin among us, whether it
was football, or writing skits, or drumming the piano." "You must have a lot in
common," I suggested, "especially your poetry--"

Wright's round, blue eyes grew rounder than ever. "He's told you!" he gasped.
"Certainly," I said, smiling to cover the pain in my heart, "did you think he
could keep it from me? Besides, I half-guessed it all the time." "I told Bill
that," said my guest, triumphantly, and then, as Bill emerged from my room,
gingerly carrying the hat, as if it were a species of lavender lydite, "Well
Richard Warren, I suppose by now your wife is your severest critic!" The hat
fluttered from Bill's grasp. I shrieked. But he caught it again deftly. "Here
you are," he said, handing it to me, and went on, "My kindest critic, you mean,
but--my critic always." "What do you think of the new book?" asked Wright of me,
as stopping only to collect Peterkins, we went from the house, down the long
avenue of palms. "I've only seen a bit, but I tell him it's better than the
first--surer, more mature, bigger in every way." "She hasn't seen it," answered
Bill, hastily. "I don't want her to for a while yet." "Oh," Wright nodded
understandingly, "I see." Just what he saw was beyond me, but I said, with a
little sigh,

"I'm so impatient--"

"You couldn't be that," said my husband, "not even when it comes to my new
book." "Very pretty," observed Wright, regarding us both, impartially. "Isn't
she?" This was too much. I turned the conversation in the direction of our
coming dinner party and to a discussion of hibiscus-bloom. But all through that
afternoon through the banter, the sparkling surface talk, of dinner that night,
through the hours before I fell asleep, I was trying to adjust myself to the
fact that it was, after all, Bill who had written _The Lyric Hour_; who had so
beautifully said so many true and lovely things: who was a very high-hearted
poet. No matter how little of his real self he had shown me in his letters,
regardless of the obvious misfit of his poems and his living personality, he had
written those poems: they were his. And they must have sprung from some eternal
and true fount of beauty in his nature, or else all books lied and all the poets
who ever lived to gladden the world with their songs were tricksters and
jesters, with a command of rythmical English and no more. I could not believe
that. And so, I must believe that my husband had written truly and sung
faithfully, from his heart. And that is what I could not understand, could not
reconcile with him, himself. He had hurt me, had wounded my pride beyond
endurance: I hated him, I wished myself free of his mere presence: but I was, in
the last analysis, forced to admit his genius, and forced to acknowledge his
power. Richard Warren had never existed, not the Richard Warren I had built up
from a slender volume of verse and a drawer-full of letters. But William Denton
did exist, very solidly, and for me, distastefully. And William Denton had
written _The Lyric Hour_. It may not be difficult, given certain conditions, to
hate a poet, but it seemed too bad. *       *       *       *       *

The following night our very informal dinner took place. We had asked some other
people, to make up a party of ten, and so we had quite a formidable array of
"valor and beauty" around the long, refectory table. Mr. and Mrs. Howells and
their daughter, the Chinese Minister and his wife, Bobby Willard and his sister
Ruth, Wright, Bill and myself, all rather diplomatically placed, made up the
group. It was a rather amusing, and incidentally, an excellent meal. Over the
massed orchids on the table, I could see Wright almost feverishly attentive
alternately, to Ruth Willard in pale-blue on his left, and to Mercedes, in an
amazing frock of black lace, a cluster of orange flowers at her girdle, seated
between him and my husband. At my end of the table I had Mr. Howells and the
courteous gentleman from the Orient. And Mrs. Howells, at Bill's right, watched
indolently her daughter's radiant progress and applied herself, mutely, to the
business of eating. In consequence, Mercedes, during the greater part of the
meal, drove tandem; and it was really pretty to watch--only, by the salad
course, it had grown monotonous. After dinner we had two tables of bridge.
Fortunately, I played rather a good game, Father having taught me patiently, in
order to provide one more time-killer, during my shut-inism. As we were ten, two
were left to play the piano, to sit out on the verandah, to stroll about the
grounds. I had cleverly manoeuvered that Wright and Ruth be left, but something
went wrong, and Bill, announcing that he did not care to play, was joined by
Mercedes, who insisted that the only rule she knew was "not to trump her
partner's ace." I fancied, however, that she was well equipped with the finesse
instinct. "And even that I often forget," she said, laughing. "Me, I have so
little use for rules!" So it eventually and naturally came about that Bill and
Mercedes stayed out of the game, joined now and then by whoever was dummy. For a
while they remained at the far end of the room, at the piano--Bill, black and
white in his dinner clothes, dreaming over the keys, Mercedes, leaning on the
piano, her huge orange feather fan at her lips, singing snatches of Spanish
songs from behind its shelter, her dark eyes glowing. It was, I was forced to
admit to Mrs. Howells, playing at my table, a pretty picture, softened and
romantic in the flicker of fire light which shone over the two and danced on the
mahogany case of the Steinway. Later, they went out: Wright followed them
presently, in his momentary freedom as dummy, for "a breath of air and a
cigarette." I made a Grand Slam. Wright, returning, to take his place, paused to
regard the score over my shoulder, and to whisper,

"Is that the girl Bill picked out for me? What does he take me for, a lion-
tamer?" "Hush!" I said, conscious of Mrs. Howells' proximity. But she was
criticizing her husband's last play and did not hear us. It was twelve o'clock
before our guests left. Mercedes, in a gorgeous black and orange cloak, seemed
reluctant to depart. "I've had _such_ a wonderful evening!" she told me, "and
Billy was _so_ entertaining!" I had always disliked the schoolgirl manner of
talking in exclamations and italics. Wright, bidding me good-night, remarked,
with mock gravity,

"I'm going to buy a whip and a gun tomorrow, Mavis! That Howells girl needs a
dressing down." "Dressing down?" I asked, not a little maliciously, recalling
with inner amusement, Mercedes' somewhat revealing gown. But if Wright did not
understand me, as I hoped he would not, my husband did, and his inevitable
"Meow!" followed me into my room and lingered there for some time. War to the
knife--! CHAPTER XIV

GUAYABAL, CUBA--      and Heaven knows what date. Father, dearest--

We have enjoyed your letters so much, and I am glad that you have    Uncle John
to bear you out in your statements that you are almost    well and strong again,
otherwise it would seem too good to be    true. What a fright you gave us all,
you dear Daddy. It is perfect here: if only you were with us I would be the
happiest girl in the world. Peter is all better again. I hope I    shall never
live through another night like the one when we    nearly lost him. Bill is
wonderful with children--I never saw    such patience and tenderness and sanity.
We see quite a lot of Mercedes. I am sure she would enchant you,    she is so
pretty. But I should be jealous, you know, if she ever    adopted you as a
second father, as she threatened to do when I    showed her your picture. Your
picture, by the way, is the next    thing to the flesh and blood you! I talk to
it by the hour. Bill has confessed the Richard Warren hoax! Quite involuntarily.
I must admit surprise, but of course I am terrifically proud of    him. And you
knew all along, you wretch, and never told me! It was amusing of you to scold me
for not going to the races. But    crowds--the bare idea of them confused me so.
However, Bill    insisted upon reading that part of your letter and carried me
off, on your authority, if you please, to sit for hours in a    funny little box
and watch the people and the horses and smell    the track and disgrace myself
by rising suddenly and shouting as    my horse came in! I won twelve dollars and
am very haughty about it! I think if I had ever seen a horse-race while I was
ill, could    such a thing have happened, I would have died. Such sheer,
wonderful poetry of motion! Bill laughed at me and promises me    more thrills
when the racing season is on in New York. He says    the Cuban race horses are a
"lot of junk"--but he doesn't realize    what it meant to me. No one can realize
what it means to me, to    be unfettered, to walk, to feel well, to be hostess
in my own    (borrowed) home, _to be like other girls_! It is no longer a
miracle, of course. Nothing is, for very long, except    perhaps--life. And I
look back on all my invalid years with    amazement: it seems a dream, a
fantasy, remote and impossible. It    is as though I had always lived--as now,--
really _lived_, Daddy    dearest! My letters are terribly long! And I write you
much oftener than    you me. We all send our love. Peter and I go further--we
send    kisses. Stay safe. Stay well, and write to your happy

MAVIS. SUNSET LAKE,      SOMEWHERE IN CANADA

We have no calendar here, my small, enchanting daughter, and so    there are no
such things as dates, only nights and days and    splendid undivided hours. I
was happy to have your letter. And you must not worry about    me--I feel twenty
years younger and, so John says, look it. You    will not know your old Dad when
you see him. I miss you, my dear. This is our first separation. I could not
stand another. I hope that you have persuaded Bill that my home    must still be
your home, when we are all together again. At first    it seemed unwise, two
young things starting out in life, saddled    with the presence of a third
person. For I am a third person    now--it is right that I should be. But I am
very selfish. I want    to enjoy my girl, this new, wonderful manifestation of
her. And    there is room in the old house for us all: you may tinker with    it
as you please, add where you will, and I will keep from under    your feet. I am
certain that Bill will have all the practice he    needs to keep him from
getting rusty--even in Green Hill. And    good old Mac is quite ready to
abdicate in his favor. How    splendidly it has all worked out! Never a day
passes that I do    not thank God for your health, for your happiness, and for
my own    reprieve. Give my love to my son-in-law. I will answer his letter
shortly. Tell Peter I've a present for him--we've a guide up here who is a
genius with a pen-knife and a scrap of wood. And inform Sarah that the last
snap-shot of her you sent me is a    marvel! She's entirely too rejuvenated for
Green Hill. To you, my child, the tenderest affection of your devoted

FATHER. I think, perhaps, that the hardest task I had, during the lazy days in
Cuba, was writing to Father. There were times when the irony of the situation
moved me to something very like laughter. A bitter form of mirth, and one I
never thought to know. As carefully as any novelist, I built up my little
fictionary happiness, evolved my plot, drew my characters, retaining enough of
truth, and committing seven times seven sins of omission. It seemed to me, at
times, that it was not I who wrote, but another Mavis, a happy Mavis, living in
a tropical dream, companioned and at peace,--the Mavis I might have been--if--

What tears my guardian angel must have shed! What blotted pages must have soiled
the ledger! I wondered very often, if lies we tell to spare others are counted
lies in the heavenly books. After all, surely we are not judged by earthly
standards, there must be a larger vision and a more tolerant viewpoint. And
sometimes, where the truth ended and where falsehood began, seemed hidden from
me: times when the dream seemed real and reality a dream--

CHAPTER XV

Sometimes I think it would be sweet,      To go out, as a candle in the wind,
Whose little flame flares up, in brilliance fleet,      To light the secret
corners of the mind,      And calls to being for a heart-beat's space,
Long-buried loves and dreams illuminate;      The household furniture of that
small place      Where Life has dwelt; old, half-forgotten hate,      Young,
brave belief: dim-colored hopes, and fears,      The driftwood memories: grey
ghosts of pain,      Which haunt us down the long, relentless years,      All
salient, living, vivid, once again,      In that last, eager, leaping ray of
light,      Which snuffs out in the passing of a breath      From windows open
to the healing Night,      Swift-blown from the quiet Wind of Death....      A
throbbing moment, wherein all things cease;      A sudden plunging into kindly
gloom;      A blessed darkness and a perfect peace;      And utter silence in an
empty Room. I had gone, with my writing things, to heap pillows on the lawn
beneath that curious tropical "Sabre" tree, which is entirely covered with
thick, wicked spikes, magnified and dangerous thorns. This tree wears smooth
with age, they say--like a number of human beings, perhaps!--and the natives
hold it in superstitious awe, believing it to be the tree which formed the
Cross. They will not cut one down or in any way deface it. Lying prone, elbows
propped on my gay cushion, my chin in my hands, I contemplated the last verse I
had made, considered a title, decided on "Ultimus," and then, weighting the
sheet with a round, yellow orange, I rolled over on my back, and crossing my
arms beneath my head looked up at the sky. It was a wonderful morning,
cloudless, perfect, not too oppressively warm. And it was the first breathing
spell I had had in several days. The business of having as a house guest an
eligible young bachelor, of charm and astonishing vitality, was a little
wearing. And I was glad when the day came on which Wright concluded that an hour
or so in the saddle, with Bill as escort would be both beneficial to his
constitution and instructive mentally. Quite aside from the arduous task of
exhibiting Havana and environs to a tireless young man, the effort of "keeping
up appearances" had really begun to tell on me. Wright was particularly keen-
sighted, and I more than once fancied that he had caught a glimpse of the black
waters under the thin verbal ice upon which Bill and I so carelessly skated. My
husband and I had not been alone together since the arrival of his friend. I had
seen to that. When we were not in Havana, or at the country club, there were
people at the "Palms." And to insure perfect satisfaction for everyone
concerned, I had asked Mercedes Howells to bring a bag, and spend a few days in
the country. She had accepted with alacrity, and there remained to me but a few
hours of comparative peace before she descended upon the household. I looked
across at the mountains: purple blue they were, clear-cut against a marvelous
sky. The air was very still. I could hear Arthur shrieking from the house. He
had learned a number of fine, full-bodied Cuban-Spanish oaths lately, and was
employing them in his most wheedling manner on Nora. The ox-carts went by on the
road below. A bird swayed on the bourganvilla vine and sang. Down in the palm-
grove I saw the flick of a peacock tail, and the orchids, themselves like
lavender birds, in the distance, flowering from the smooth palm trunks. My eyes
closed and I slept. When I awoke, someone was sitting cross-legged beside me,
whistling "Sally in our Alley." I saw puttees and riding breeches, a hand
holding a cigarette, and finally a blonde countenance which was turned upward to
the sky. "Hello," I said. "How long have you been here?" "Hours," he answered.
"Mavis Denton, you talk in your sleep, you do, somethin' awful!" I sat up
abruptly. "What did I say?" I demanded. "First you snored some--"

"I don't snore!" "You do,--Bill told me so. 'Wright,' he says to me, 'don't you
never marry a girl who snores.'" There was no use arguing with Wright in a silly
mood. "Go on," I said, resigned to heaven alone knew what eccentricities of
speech and disclosure. "I'm going. First you snores a bit, as I remarked before
I was so rudely interrupted. Who raised you, anyway, Mavis? Don't you know
little girls must never contradict, interrupt, or otherwise distract old
gentlemen? Well, after the snore--musical, it was--'Bill!' you says, entreating-
like--'Bill,' you says, right out loud. And then, just like a movie heroine,
'Never!' you shouts, 'Never! ', and you clinched your hands and ground your
teeth as no lady had oughter!" "I never heard of anything so silly," I said,
"You're making it all up!" Wright laughed. "I'm not, truly," he said, "although
perhaps I have rendered it in a slightly more lurid manner than you did. But
it's true, and I'm going to ask Bill what it's all about, so there!" "Don't you
dare!" I said. "All right, I won't, if you will promise me never to blush again
like you have been doing for the last three minutes. It is very disturbing, to a
struggling poet who has long sought fresher similes for Dawn and all that sort
of thing. You provided the simile, all right, but who in time could rhyme with
Mavis?" At the mention of poetry, my hand unconsciously went toward the sheet of
paper beside me. The orange rolled away and the wind provokingly caught the
paper and fluttered it. "What's this?" said the audacious youth beside me. "Ha!
I see Bill's fine Italian hand in this--"

He picked up the paper, regardless of my pleas, and scanned it with a practised
eye. "Your writing. Amanuensis now, eh? Hm--that doesn't sound like Bill. Wait a
moment, I never saw such illegible calligraphy. At least one member of a
doctor's family ought to write so a fellow can read it--"

He laid the paper down. "Bill didn't write that," he said, suddenly serious,
"who did? You, Mavis?" I nodded. "Why, you little wretch," he cried out,
delightedly. "Bill never told me a word--"

"He doesn't know," I said. "No-one knows. Please don't tell him. I had thought
of some day showing what I had done to Uncle John Denton. But I've decided not
to, now. I didn't mean anyone to know--"

Wright picked up the paper and read the verse again. I watched him, in a curious
mental state. Part of me resented bitterly that even so good a friend should
have dragged out to the revealing light of day, my wistful secret of song: and
yet, another part of me, back in my brain, said dully, "It really doesn't matter
--now." "I'm a better critic than I am a poet," said Wright, after a time. "I
think you have a gift, Mavis. This," he flicked the paper with a thumb and
finger, "has grace and delicacy. It's not good, of course,--not according to--
well, say, Bill's standards,--but it has promise. I won't tell Bill, if you'd
rather not, although I think he would help you a great deal--and I'm sure he'd
go quite out of his head with excitement. May I see, sometime, anything else you
have? Only, for the love of Mike, what's the idea of being so morbid? Haven't
you happier things to write about, child?" I put my hand over his,

"Sure you won't tell?" I begged. "I swear, by all the Muses," he replied, "Bill
shall never know, from me." "Know what?" asked Bill, appearing disconcertingly
around the tree. I snatched my hand from Wright's and felt myself grow scarlet.
We must both have looked guilty, for Wright's guileless blonde face reflected my
embarrassment. "Secret!" said Wright, firmly. "Oh, I see." Bill glanced from one
to the other of us, to the paper in Wright's hand, and then considerately walked
off. "Lunch is ready," he remarked, over his shoulder. "Been calling you for
about ten minutes." Wright helped me to my feet. "Close call," he said. "Hush!"
I said, for my husband was still within ear-shot. "Is he always like that?"
asked Wright, anxiously, as we went toward the house. "Like what?" I asked, in
all innocence. "Positively green-eyed with rage if you are alone for half a
minute with another man--even so harmless a specimen as myself?" "Don't be
silly," said I, with finality. "I'm not, and if he is going to be jealous as all
that, why don't you get to him first before he can accuse you, and demand that
he cease baying at the moon with that human leopardess who vamps around these
diggings?" "She'll be here this afternoon, on a visit," I announced, laughing.
"Why don't you monopolize her yourself?" "I never went in for that kind," said
Wright with firmness. "I might get scratched. Gentle and soft-spoken, that's my
type. Besides, Miss Howells is going to look just like her mother, and that's a
warning to any man!" That afternoon Mercedes arrived. Her bag proved to be a
trunk, and within an hour of her arrival, she had charmed the kitchen, made eyes
at Silas, called Wright by his first name, hurt her finger--with resultant
medical attention, and confided to me that she "hated men!" After which, she
departed in the direction of the palm-grove with "Billy" and "Wright." I went to
her room and viewed her gowns, hanging, like flowers, in her innovation steamer-
trunk. After which, I went to my own room and took stock of my chiffon and satin
armor. Bill came back at tea time. "Wright is reciting poetry to Mercedes on the
stone bench under the orchids, and sketching her between verses," he announced,
"but I crave more material food." "You might have stayed on," I suggested,
passing him the sandwiches, "and made the recitation competitive."
"Competitive," he remarked, choosing a ripe, red disk of tomato, flanked with
thin circles of bread, and biting into it reflectively, "calls for numbers. I
don't enjoy being part of a mob-scene, or a mass-meeting." "Here comes the
Meistersaenger," I said, as Wright came up the steps, with Mercedes
unnecessarily on his arm. Selecting chairs, cups, plates and food, our guests
joined us around the wicker tea-wagon. "He is not a nice young man at all," said
Mercedes frankly, exhibiting a rather clever little pastel of herself, "this
Wright. He says to me the most beautiful poetry, so sad and so lovely, all about
unrequited love and dead girls floating in moonlit pools, and when, touched to
the heart, I weep a little, he laughs and says it is wonderful how much tragedy
one can turn out at fifty cents a line!" She opened ocular fire on her host as
she spoke, and Bill responded nicely. "I'm sure," he said gravely, "that Wright
will have plenty of happier inspiration now." And said Wright to me, under his
breath,

"In all justice, one must concede her a certain amount of beauty. I don't think
she's going to look like her mother after all." "Whispering's rude," said
Mercedes severely, "isn't it, Billy?" So the conversation became general again.
At six, Bill drove over to the neighboring plantation to fetch Peterkins, who
had spent the day there with the Crowell children, back to supper. When he
returned, he looked rather serious. "What's up?" asked Wright idly, from the
canvas verandah swing. "Nothing much," he answered, "that is, not yet. Run along
to Sarah, Peter,--there's a good fellow." But I knew that something was wrong,
and after the child had left us, I asked quietly,

"Tell us, Bill, please!" "Crowell's been having some trouble with the natives,"
he answered, frowning. "It may blow over--and it may spread. They're like a lot
of sheep. But I feel responsible to Reynolds, even if Silas is in charge. The
people have a healthy respect for Silas, and they trust him,--but--"

"What sort of trouble?" asked Wright, practically. "Oh, threats--and little
gatherings--and demonstrations. They are always restless, and the slightest
thing sets them off. Crowell discharged one of his surliest men the other day.
Unfortunately, the chap is related to half Guayabal. We've some of his cousins
and brothers and uncles on this place, I suppose! Anyway, this Miguel person has
been going about trying to incite the people to open enmity against the resident
Americans. Of course, it probably won't amount to a hill of beans, but you never
know where you stand." "Haven't they just finished a comic-opera revolution
here?" asked Wright. "Seems to me I read something about it." "There are always
uprisings," answered Mercedes, covering a yawn, "generally in the eastern
districts--nearer Santiago. They are like children, these people." She turned,
with a shrug which dismissed the subject, to Bill. "Come," she urged prettily,
"play my accompaniment for me. I want to sing you some of the old songs my
little, Spanish grandmother taught her grandchildren." We had a little while
before we need dress for dinner, and so Bill followed her obediently into the
living-room, and presently, her light, sweet voice floated out to Wright and me
on the verandah. "Sings well, doesn't she?" said Wright. But I was not
attending. "Doesn't Bill seem worried to you?" I asked, more casually than my
mental state warranted. "Who? Bill? Why no, I don't think so," he answered,
absently. "He's probably put all this native business out of his head by now.
Bill's not an alarmist. Wonder what that song is--quaint, isn't it?" But I was
not satisfied, and after dinner, I deliberately found an opportunity, contrary
to custom, to speak with my husband alone. "About the Crowell plantation," I
said, "is there any danger to them from the natives--to us?" "There is always
more or less danger," he answered, with the formal courtesy which had recently
characterized all of our infrequent, unattended encounters, "but I do not think
we need worry. Still, I shall forbid Peter to go out in the fields, or beyond
the house alone, and I must ask you also to be careful. I'm sorry to curtail
your freedom--but, if you don't mind--?" Perversely, I suddenly "minded" very
much. "I won't run any risks," I answered, with mental reservations. "There you
two are again! Sneaking off, whispering, heads together! Aren't you just a
little tired of twosing by now?" It was Wright, coming up behind us. I thought I
detected a little, cynical gleam in Mercedes' eyes, and laid my hand defiantly
on Bill's arm. "Are _you_ tired?" I asked him gaily. He laid his free hand over
mine. "Do men tire of life?" he counter questioned, gallantly, and I knew a
swift admiration for his histrionic powers. For his voice went a little deep,
quite suddenly, and the hand over mine shook. "Nice answer," said Wright
critically, "quite emotional, but open to argument. Of course men tire of life.
Some of them commit suicide, some of them drink, others get married! The remedy
is entirely according to temperament." "Horrid man!" said Mercedes, pouting. And
answering amiably, "Am I not?" Wright guided her to the bridge table, having
persuaded her at dinner that, with him as partner, she could trump his ace to
her heart's content. As we followed them, Bill said, very low,

"Remember--not to go out alone, Mavis." "I'll remember," I answered, non-
committally, and we sat down to the cards. It was interesting to observe that
Mercedes, her previous assertions to the contrary, played a much better game
than any of us, excepting, perhaps, Bill. So, after all, it had been from choice
and not lack of knowledge, that she had not joined the game the night of the
dinner. Which looked as if someone else had been manoeuvering besides myself.
But I forgave her. She was so pretty that one could not expect her to always
play quite "according to Hoyle." CHAPTER XVI

I arrived in the kitchen the following morning, to discuss luncheon with Norah,
and found the entire kitchen-force massed at the screened-door, watching
Mercedes coquetting with Arthur. There was a temptation to draw an analogy
between the brilliantly-plumaged, addle-pated bird and the decorative girl who
stood at the cage-door, poking her white fingers perilously through the wiring
and cooing to him in softest Spanish. It must be admitted, that weeks of
painstaking effort on my part to win Arthur to a display of friendliness toward
me, had resulted in nothing. But ten minutes with Mercedes had proved his
undoing: the bird was positively maudlin. I came out to the cage, and at once
the half-closed orbs of Arthur underwent an unflattering change. He opened them
to their widest and bleakest and said, hoarsely sarcastic, "Pretty darling!
Darling! Bow-wow-wow! Carramba!" at which Mercedes exclaimed delightedly,

"Oh, isn't he clever! Who taught him that?" "The swearing, or the pet names?" I
answered, stooping to say goodmorning to Wiggles, "I haven't the remotest idea."
"Billy?" suggested my guest, touching her perfectly dressed hair with highly
manicured finger-tips. "Possibly," I answered. "He invariably barks and then
swears at me, before luncheon." "Billy or Arthur?" inquired Mercedes with
interest. I laughed. "Have you seen either of the men this morning?" I asked. "I
heard them go out early." "They went to Crowell's," she answered. "I saw them
off. They will not be back before tea, Billy told me." I tried to look as if I
had heard these plans before, and merely forgotten them for a moment. "How
nice!" I said, insincerely, "We will have a nice, long day together--with no
disturbing male element," I added maliciously. "I will like that too," said
Mercedes, with great unexpectedness. "You never let me talk to you alone, Mavis,
and" she finished with a funny little undercurrent of wistfulness in her pretty
voice, "I have no friends my own age--women friends, I mean." I had grown to be
a little annoyed at my guest, but somehow, her simple statement opened up a
vista before me which I had not dreamed existed. The child seemed, after all,
hungry for companionship. It was out of the question that she should find it
with her own indolent mother, who treated her as if she were half plaything and
half infant; or with her father, whose attitude toward her was a curious
commingling of affectionate despotism and anxiety: and the basis on which she
met all her many men-satellites was not one guaranteed to produce comradeship. I
put my arm through hers and took her into the kitchen with me. After my
inconsiderable domestic task was completed, we went out on the verandah
together, armed with sewing. Mercedes sewed beautifully, an art which her early
convent education had taught her, and I took a real aesthetic pleasure in
watching the smooth, dark head, bent over the fine linen in her lap. "What are
you making?" I asked her, idly. She exhibited the very feminine garment:
exquisitely embroidered and sewn with the most exact and even of tiny stitches.
"I wish I could sew like that," I said, enviously, "but I should think you would
ruin your eyes." She raised to mine the tremendous pools of liquid darkness in
question. "But no," she said. "All Spanish girls are clever with the needle. The
Sisters taught me when I was very young." I had been, with the Howells, to one
of the convents near Havana, and I recalled now the sweet, patient faces of the
nuns, and the marvelous work they showed us. Some of it lay in one of my trunks
now, a present to Mrs. Goodrich from Bill and me. The thought of Mercedes behind
the austere cloister walls was incongruous. "Were you long with the nuns?" I
asked her. "Seven years," she answered, and then, amazingly, "I was very happy
there--for a long time I wanted to take the veil, but Father was simply
horrified at the idea." I was somewhat horrified myself. "I can't imagine it," I
said flatly. "Why?" I didn't answer for a moment, and she went on,

"But I know why--you think me very light and frivolous, do you not, Mavis?" "It
would be difficult," I answered cautiously, "to imagine you as a nun!" "They are
good women," she said, and was silent. Suddenly I realized that I knew very
little more about this girl than I had known on the boat coming down to Havana,
and yet, I had been with her almost constantly ever since. "Didn't you care for
college?" I inquired, rather diffidently. Her great eyes lighted up. "It was
wonderful--in some ways--" she said slowly, "so many girls, of all classes,
gathered together. At first I could not understand. At home, you know, one is
very careful whom one knows. It is changing a little now. I remember I was
scandalized, my first months at college, to find that the President of the
Senior class was a waitress in one of the campus houses--actually waiting on the
table! It was too incredible! I wrote home, and Mother begged Father to send for
me at once. She was even more shocked than I! But Father laughed, she said, and
told her it would do me good. He said it was high time that a little of my
American blood came to the fore. Later I learned that this girl, the Senior
President, had practically worked her way through the four years of college. She
was the daughter of a very poor man--a peasant, we would call him. And yet there
was hardly a girl in that great college who would not have given everything she
had for the respect and admiration and love which that quiet, plain-featured
girl had won and held from students and faculty alike." "You too?" I asked. "I,
too," said Mercedes simply. She bent her head a little lower over the white
fabric in her lap and went on, not quite clearly. "I was not very popular. Some
liked me, yes. They even asked me to their homes for the shorter vacations. But
they liked me because I was 'different': because it was 'smart' to say that they
had a Spanish-American girl as a friend: or because I was pretty and bright and
did not care much to study. But I made no real friendships." I was, by now, very
interested. Here was a cross-section of life that I had no knowledge of. A
feeling of sympathy stirred in me: this gay, alien little creature, with the
blood of two widely dissimilar nations warring in her, coming fresh from her
convent to the democratic freedom of an American college. I said,

"Tell me a little about it all, Mercedes. I only know college-life second hand,
for, as perhaps Bill has told you, I was a helpless invalid for eleven years.
But I was fortunate in my friends, although I had few of my own age, and in a
Father who was my greatest playfellow and my most understanding comrade." The
quick, facile tears rose to the big eyes. She pulled her chair a little closer
and laid her warm, vibrant hand on mine. "I didn't know," she said. "I'm so
sorry. Billy told me that you had been ill--but I didn't dream.--You're
wonderful, Mavis," she said, "delicate and lovely as an orchid. I always feel
clumsy and too highly-colored beside you. And you have been so kind and sweet--"

I grew very remorseful: my feelings toward Mercedes Howells had been anything
but "kind and sweet." They had been distinctly critical and almost unfriendly.
For the first time, I did not resent her easy use of my husband's given name:
for the first time I realized the old truth that to know people is to like them.
I gave the narrow, high-bred hand a little squeeze. "Don't be silly, child," I
said lightly. "And tell me more about your American impressions." "You sound
just like the reporter who came on the boat, my first trip North," said
Mercedes, with a little giggle. "Such a nice young man! But the things he put in
the paper about me! 'Beautiful Spanish-American heiress screams with delight at
the first glimpse of her father's country.' I didn't really scream," she
explained conscientiously, "but I talked more than I should have. Father wrote
me quite an angry letter about it. He is very well known," she added, without
pride, "and it annoyed him. He says no woman can hold her tongue, anyway! But
how was I to know that the nice young man was a reporter?" I had a vision of
Mercedes, hands flying, eyes everywhere, babbling and bubbling for the _New York
Press_. It was too amusing. No wonder Mr. Howells had been 'annoyed.' "Go on," I
said encouragingly. "The girls I went home with," she said, after a while, "they
lived in wonderful houses and had such beautiful clothes. But I didn't like
them, somehow. You see, at home we are very strictly brought up. After a girl is
out, she has some freedom, of course, and, after she marries, it is quite
different--she can do as she likes. And until Father had insisted upon my being
educated in the States, my Mother had had all the care of me. And I was brought
up as the Spanish girls are, as my Mother was in her own Madrid. These American
girls I visited thought of nothing but good times. They spoke no language but
their own--"

"How many do you speak, Mercedes?" I interrupted, curiously. "English, Spanish,
French, of course," she answered, "and a little smattering of Italian and
German. I had governesses until I was ten, and then I went to the convent. And
much emphasis was laid on languages." I suppressed a gasp, and she went on. "It
was from them--my college friends--that I learned that it is easy to deceive
one's parents. And that it is quite right and proper to have as many cavaliers
as one can. 'Scalp-hunting' they called it--"

I thought of Mercedes' not inadept efforts along the line of scalps, and
thinking, asked,

"But haven't Spanish girls--and girls all over the world--very much the same
ambitions along that line?" Mercedes knitted her brows, and as she looked at me,
I was startled, for, for the first time, I saw in her a very definite
resemblance to her father. There was a strength of jaw there, to which the
rounded, soft chin had blinded me: a certain Northern keenness in the Southern
eyes. "Why yes," she answered, "but it is--to marry that they--shall I say--
hunt? But it was not that with my New York friends. They had no desire to marry:
many of them told me that they would hate being tied down, that they disliked
children. No, it was not to marry--but merely to play and to be amused--"

I laughed. "It's the motive then," I said, "that makes the difference in your
eyes?" "Of course," she said frankly. "To marry, to have a family, to be
mistress in one's own home, that is--"

"The legitimate ambition of every woman," I concluded for her. "Si, Senora," she
answered, laughing in spite of herself. "But," I argued, "you must have met
other American girls whose interest was not solely centered in the fine art of
flirtation." "I understood them--those you speak of, even less!" said Mercedes
guilelessly. "My roommate was such a one. She wanted to be an engineer just
fancy! And she was so pretty too!" "An engineer!" I ejaculated, for even to my
American mind this was an unusual ambition for my sex to harbor. "And she had no
use for men, too?" I asked. "That was just it," said Mercedes, in obvious
wonderment. "She had any number of men friends: corresponded with them, saw them
at dances: they even called upon her at college. But a flirt she was not. They
were her friends, she said. And she was like another boy with them. I went to
her home once, a little town in Massachusetts, and I could not understand her at
all. She was like a sister to her mother, a son to her father, and a comrade to
her dance-partners. It was too amazing!" There was the whole thing in a
nutshell, I thought. She could understand but not condone the promiscuous
flirtations of her American sisters: but the girl who was comrade to a man, and
friend, and who looked on him as such, and not as an extra "scalp" or a possible
husband, was beyond her comprehension. "But," I argued, "returning to the
butterflies, surely, Mercedes, you have quite as much freedom now as any
American girl. And, forgive me, my dear, but you employ it in much the same
manner." Her glance was mischievous and rather child-like. "That has only been
since my return home," she said. "Mother is not pleased, but Father says, 'let
her go ahead.' And--as to what you say, I am trying very hard to be American
now." "Not the comrade sort, such as your mechanical roommate?" I suggested. She
regarded me in amazement. "But most of the men I meet are Cubans," she stated.
"Do you think _they_ would understand it--if I could be like that little Mary
Adams?" I considered, shook my head. "Of course not," she said, answering her
own question. "They would laugh and shrug--and be, perhaps, disagreeable. They
can accept such a manner in an American girl. They do not like it, or comprehend
it, but some of them have learned their lesson. And they must respect it. But--
in a Spanish girl--it would be unthinkable. Besides," she added frankly, "I
couldn't--"

She was right. Temperamentally unfit, emotionally too highly developed. "And--as
to the flirting," she said shyly, "I--I like to attract people. I like to make
them laugh and say nice things. And perhaps my American friends have taught me
something of their methods." "And your motive--?" I asked. She stretched her
graceful arms wide. Her hair had a blue sheen in the shaded light of the
verandah and her skin was magnolia-white. "I haven't any!" said Mercedes
frankly. "Not even a small gold band in the perspective?" I said. She looked
down at her ringless hands: at the heap of fragrant linen lying in her lap.
"This is to be part of my trousseau," she answered, indirectly, "part of what
you call a 'Hope Chest.' All girls of my class sew a great deal and lay it all
away until they marry. And, after all, I am not like my New York cousins, for
where they say 'perhaps--when I get tired of playing,' I say, 'someday, when I
meet the right man.' And so, you see, I am not like my Mother's people either--
not quite. For they say, 'someday when my parents are satisfied--and let us hope
it will be soon!'" I didn't wonder that Bill--that the men found her charming.
The mixture of innocence and sophistication, the innate and the acquired
worldliness was really delicious. "Do you talk to many people like this?" I
asked curiously. "Of course not," she answered, wide-eyed. "I know of no one who
would understand. There are times," she admitted, with a little sigh, "When I
really do not understand myself." At the luncheon table I found myself looking
at Mercedes, half as if she were a stranger, half as if she were an old friend.
"I envy you and Bill, Mavis," she said, once, when Fong had left the room, "you
have so much to make you happy. He's a very lucky man." I smiled. It was not a
subject on which I wished to be interrogated. "And you," she went on, "are a
lucky girl. He's awfully fine, that husband of yours." She played for a moment
with her tea-spoon, and looked at me, rather pathetically. "I like the way
American men are with their wives," she said, "I wish I could have met a
Billy--"

I might have responded that, in a few months' time, my husband would be legally
free to take an interest in such remarks, but I refrained. "You must have met a
number of men, in two years," I said. "Not Billies," she answered firmly,
"awfully young they were, and--" she paused. Fong came in just then, and the
conversation took a more discreet turn. After luncheon, siesta-ing in the two
big swings down among the palms, I brought up the subject again. "So, after
all," I said, "the 'right man' must be an American, Mercedes?" I had not
calculated on the effect of my idle words. A vivid scarlet spread to the roots
of the black hair. "On the boat," she answered, "we talked, your Bill and I--and
since then, also. And I have learned a little of the reverence for women that
your fine men have: a little of the way they guard and protect them--not by bars
and bolts and commands, but by love and chivalry and thoughtfulness. I have seen
that too, in my Father, a little. But, after all, my Father married Mother, and
so, it is different with him. And he has never talked to me as he would to the
daughter, perhaps, of an American wife--"

I thought of my own Father and knew a swift pang of pity, for this rather
rudderless little craft. "It was through Billy that I got to know you," Mercedes
went on--"he was always talking about you. And you--you always held me off--"

Something very warm and sweet crept into my heart, and I put my hand out, across
the space between. "I'm sorry," I said, "awfully sorry, Mercedes,--you see,
perhaps I wasn't quite used to girls." "You'll really be my friend now?" she
asked, naively: and I was conscious that I spoke the whole truth as I answered,

"I am your friend, Mercedes,--never doubt it." Our hands clasped on that, and
within ten minutes, her quiet breathing told me that she slept. I lay awake a
little longer, thinking very hard. So Bill had really seen the best of her after
all. He had not told me, for I had never tried to know, even second hand. He
would have let me go on believing the girl to be heartless and silly, and
admiration-loving, nothing else. It was not fair! And then I stopped to realize
that I had not _wanted_ to believe her anything else. Before I fell asleep, I
had absolved Mercedes Howells from deliberately trying to flirt with my husband.
She would have been my friend more than his, had I wished her to be. Failing
that, she had turned to the person, who, oddly enough, had apparently
comprehended her little complexities. I looked over at the serene face, the
heavy, white lids, with their weight of dark lashes, folded over the big eyes. A
little smile curved the lovely, full mouth, and she slept, as a child sleeps,
one hand under her soft cheek. It was very still. The palm leaves rustled
faintly over my head, and the sunlight fell hot and golden through the trees. My
eyes closed in spite of myself, and with a very tender impulse toward my new
friend, I turned on my side and slept. CHAPTER XVII

"What are you two girls whispering about?" asked Wright, coming up behind us on
the glassed-in porch of the Country Club. "It is none of your affairs,"
responded Mercedes with dignity, "but as you are so rude as to ask, I will tell
you that the last affair of the season is to be held at the home of Consuelo
Mendez--a ball--next week. And I have asked Mavis if she will let me steal you
for the evening--provided you have no objection. It will be amusing, I think,
and you will meet many pretty girls." "As to that, I would not have to leave
Guayabal," said Wright politely, "but I am honored that you implore my escort--"

"Implore!" said Mercedes with scorn. "Be careful," I warned. "She'll withdraw
her invitation. And I'm sure you'd have a wonderful time. I shan't go, of
course, although Senora Mendez has been gracious enough to include me in the
invitation. And Bill declares he is too old for such festivities. But I have
told Mercedes she may have you--"

"And welcome?" suggested Wright, tragically. "I shall stop on at 'The Palms'
till then," said Mercedes--"Mavis has asked me. And if you will come into Havana
with me the day of the dance, my Mother will be very glad to have you stay with
us over that night. For it will be a late party, of course--too late for you to
return to Guayabal." "Bully," said Wright with enthusiasm, "I'd love it. What
does one wear?" he asked anxiously. "Low neck and short sleeves," answered Bill,
appearing from the locker rooms. "Wright thinks," said Mercedes pensively, "that
at an affair almost entirely within the Spanish-Cuban set, the gentlemen appear
attired as _toreodores_." Wright looked aggrieved. "Not at all," he
contradicted, "only the Anglo-Saxon fashions for men are utterly devoid of
beauty. I wish I had lived some time back--in the satin knee-breeches and lace
cuff period." "But you're bow-legged!" objected Bill insultingly. "I am not,"
said Wright indignantly. "Observe!" He thrust out a far from unshapely calf, in
tweed knickers. "If my extremities show a slight tendency to bow, it is merely a
sign of physical strength, and many years spent in the saddle and on the base-
ball diamond." Said Mercedes to me, in an aside. "Now, you know, my Mother would
never have listened to such a discussion--in Madrid!" "She would never have had
the opportunity," I whispered back. "To return to the Mendez ball," said Wright,
raising his voice, with intent. "I thought a simple flower in my hair or thrust
into my waistcoat...."

"You _are_ an ass!" remarked Bill, yawning. "Perhaps," conceded Wright
pleasantly, "but it is a quality which keeps me much in demand." "You will
never," said Bill deliberately, "get very far in your work, old man. For one
thing--you have too much money: for another, you take nothing seriously." "How
about yourself?" asked Wright, a little stirred. Bill glanced at Mercedes, but
she smiled at him and nodded. "I have found out about you, Billy," she said, "So
go ahead and talk." "Who told you?" demanded my husband, not very angrily.
"Partly Wright--I wormed it out of him, after he had let something slip--and,
more recently, Mavis." "Mavis!" said Bill in astonishment. I did not meet his
eyes. "Why not?" asked Mercedes. "She is bursting with pride in you, naturally.
_Cela va sans dire!_ So, after I had probed and begged a little, she let me see
the book. It is very wonderful," she ended, with that utter lack of self-
consciousness in expressing her emotions and opinions, which, after one was used
to it, was rather endearing. "Well, then, as you're among friends, Billy, I
repeat, what about yourself?" "I have my profession," Bill answered quietly. "I
am a doctor--and I love it. It is, perhaps, my vocation--to heal and to mend,
and to help. And equally, perhaps, poetry is my avocation." "Dictionary
definition of avocation is 'diversion,'" said Wright, triumphantly. "And the
definition of diversion is 'recreation'!" I put in. "Exactly," said Bill, "re-
creation. To create anew--to refresh. That is, perhaps, the mission of poetry,
and applies to the poet as well as to his audience. Poetry is, for me, the
language of dreams: the ceaseless search for beauty: something common to all
men. For the peasant dreams as well as the inventor: the man of science, as well
as the financier and the college professor who thinks of education as something
bigger than is contained between the covers of a text-book. And from the soil,
the shop, the laboratory, the office and the school-room great songs have been
sung,--not all of them in words!" "The financier dreams?" said Wright,
incredulously. "Not much!" "If he didn't, he wouldn't be where he is," answered
Bill. "If the engineer didn't dream, the bridges would not be swung over the
boiling rivers of strange countries, or the railroad tracks laid through the
virgin jungle and the ageless desert--"

I had a curious sensation, listening to that even, low voice. It was as if, for
the first time, I had heard Richard Warren speak. "I guess you're right," said
the other man, after a moment of silence. "Of course I am," answered Bill. "And
so, the poets dream dreams too, and try to interpret other men's dreams: those
which are built in brick and stone: materialized into steel: founded in a huge
office building. The grim reality of war stands for dreams sometimes. Many
inarticulate poets have gone singing to the bayonet thrust. Once, a handful of
people dreamed of Liberty; and the United States was their expression of that
dream." Someone drew a deep breath. It was I, perhaps. Bill looked over at me,
shaking the ash from his cigarette. And for a moment I forgot the feud between
us: forgot that we were very soon to go our separate ways: forgot a number of
things that I had known and I remembered only the songs that Richard Warren had
sung for the world. "It was a dream, too," said Mercedes, "which made Cuba
free!" We were grave, as, together, we four had never been through the sunny,
idle days. I had the oddest feeling that between us all lay something unspoken,
unnamed, intangible, as if, too, for the moment, we were closely knit together,
completely _en rapport_. "Well," said Wright easily, swinging the conversation
back to its starting place, "It's all very well to talk. And perhaps you are
more serious than I, Bill. Mind, I don't altogether admit it--but you tune your
lyre to a deeper key than I do mine. I can't claim to be a poet: a versifier,
yes...."

"You do yourself an injustice," I said warmly, for Wright's somewhat exotic pen-
name had long since come into my knowledge and I had seen some of his magazine
verse. "You've a gift," said my husband, "not lightly to be disregarded. But
you're too versatile--you paint better than you write, and there's a lot in the
old parable of the talents. And, by George, you've no honest right to your
talent if, in some way, you do not use it for the good of your fellow-men."
"That's what I tell him," broke in Mercedes, in a little earnest note, and
blushed a rosy red. The links were almost deserted, and the tea-hour long past.
Realizing that it would be late before we reached home, I rose, reluctantly. For
there had been a spirit around the table which could not easily be recaptured--
and I regretted its passing. "The tourists have practically all left," said
Mercedes, on the way to the car. "Very few are here still. And the residents
have already begun to go North." "You'll practise again this year?" asked Wright
of Bill, as the car drove off, and I heard my husband answer,

"That depends very much on Mavis." "Is he to poetize or administer pills?" asked
Wright, turning to me. "Both, I hope," I answered casually. "Good doctors may
not be as rare as good poets, but the combination is remarkable." "I should
think," said Mercedes, with candour, "that you would be awfully jealous...."

"Grateful lady patients?" asked Wright. She nodded. "I've not had the
opportunity yet," I answered. "Since I've known him Bill hasn't had many
patients except me--"

"Quite a serious case," remarked Wright solemnly, "one that demands incessant
medical attention." Bill laughed. "If Mavis can stand for irregular hours and
cold meals," he said, "I'll start in again when our vacation is over." "You
needn't rub it into me that I don't have to work for a living," said Wright.
"Look at you, taking a year off, careless-like. 'Tisn't decent--for a doctor. I
can't help it that my late lamented uncle made tin-pans successfully--and that I
was his only living relative. He didn't approve of me at all," he concluded
modestly, "and he thought my verses immoral, but he couldn't leave it all to
charity, you know--"

"I've never lacked having more money than I needed," said Bill, as we drove
through the hot, quiet night, "but I've been glad of it. If it didn't provide me
with an added incentive to work, it at least allowed me to do a good deal that I
otherwise could not have done." "The Denton Free Clinic, for instance," said
Wright. But Bill did not answer. For just a second I was hurt that he hadn't
told me. And then I remembered how little I knew about the man who was my
husband. Mercedes, in the front seat with Bill, asked him a question. Under the
cover of their voices Wright said to me,

"I shouldn't chaff Bill like that. I don't suppose that there is another medico
of his age in New York who has done so much charity-doctoring. There are
districts where the people have absolutely canonized him." "He never tells me
about that side of it," I said. "I don't suppose he would," answered Wright.
"You get to know these things by chance. But he had a streak in him--even at
Princeton--that made him different from the rest of us. And men who were with
him at Johns Hopkins could tell you tales--"

"Bridge tonight?" said Mercedes. I jumped. My thoughts had been very far away,
filling in gaps. "You'll have to play with me," said Wright. "I understand all
your signals, Mercedes!" "But you don't profit by them," she answered, as we
came within sight of the house. I played a wretched game that evening. I
couldn't keep my mind on the cards. It was off--back at the Country Club again,
listening to a poet talk of poets: it was wondering a little about the "Denton
Free Clinic": and, in consequence, I revoked twice, to the extreme amusement of
our opponents. "Haven't come to the point where you swear at your wife at the
bridge-table, have you Bill?" asked Wright, as he carefully took the penalty.
"No," replied my husband, "that's a form of indoor sport I could never quite
understand. It doesn't seem fair--for she couldn't swear back." "Oh, couldn't
I?" said I with ardour. "I shan't give you the opportunity," he answered. "And
now, if you please, one no trump." The game broke up rather early. I was tired
and wanted to go to bed. Wright and Mercedes, with the excuse that they were
keenly interested in astronomy, walked out on the verandah. I told them good-
night. "You'll stay to chaperone the Irresponsibles?" I asked my husband.
"Gladly," he said, "and discreetly--from a distance." There was something so
comfortable and lovable about him that night that I suddenly wanted to tell him
I was sorry that we had quarrelled, sorry that the barrier had arisen between
us. But I couldn't. In one way, however, I might make amends. I said,

"I've grown awfully fond of Mercedes. I hope she will come North sometime--for
the summer, perhaps. I think I misjudged her cruelly for a while." The steel-
blue eyes grew warm. "She's a very nice child," said Bill, "and I knew you'd
find it out before long. You didn't give her a chance at first. But I'm glad you
like her, Mavis, for you can do her a lot of good." "How?" I asked curiously.
"Well, for one thing, you're pretty well balanced--most of the time. And for
another, you have had the advantage of a unique and splendid upbringing. And for
another, you are--unless given certain circumstances--most uncommonly sweet." He
said it in a very matter-of-fact tone: and looked at his watch as he spoke--not
at me. I was absurdly embarrassed. "Are--are you a 'certain circumstance'?" I
asked daringly, and escaped to my room before he could answer. I heard him start
to follow me, but apparently he thought better of it. But long after I was in
bed, I heard a foot-fall under my windows, the smell of a pipe drifted in
through the flower-scent, and the sound of a baritone voice singing softly,

"Who is Sylvia--who is she--?" "Is she kind as she is fair--?" I lay for some
time, listening, and finally, as the footsteps turned away and the song grew
fainter, I laid my hot cheek to the pillow and slept, dreamlessly, until
morning. But when morning came, it all seemed very far away--that talk at the
Country Club--and the steps below my window. Wright was in his silliest mood,
and Mercedes and he kept up a running fire of foolishness. Bill was preoccupied,
almost abrupt. He left us directly after lunch, on one of his now daily visits
to the Crowell plantation. And Mercedes disappeared with Wright at the same
time. Where they were, I do not know to this day. I had tea alone: Peter was
with Sarah, and after tea I went out restlessly and walked, stopping at old
Manuel's and at Annunciata's. It was growing dark before I turned homewards
again, and there was a strange lingering light in the sky which drew my
attention. A great, sulphur-colored cloud, murky and ominous, not like any cloud
I had ever seen. I hurried on and had reached the gates before the wind came. A
rush, a tearing at trees and bushes, a tremendous sweep of hot, choking dust and
air. I could hardly keep my feet, and struggled, step by step, head down, almost
defenceless in the face of the storm. The wind had risen, apparently, without
warning. And yet, looking back on it afterwards, I realized that, had I been a
little more familiar with the vagaries of Cuban climate, I would have noticed
the curious hush, the absolute stillness, expectant and breathless, which lay
over Guayabal just before the storm broke. Nearing the house, I heard a
tremendous crash, voices, and the sound of hurrying foot-steps. The wind was
increasing in volume, and I fairly stumbled up the steps, almost falling. When
my hand was finally on the door, it was wrenched open with violence, and I saw
Bill on the threshold, very white, with burning blue eyes. He caught me by the
arm and pulled me into the room. "Where have you been?" he said, furiously.
"Walking," said I, the ruins of my hat in my hand. He made a sound in his
throat, half-anger, half-impotence. "The roof of the garage has blown off," he
said. "It's a nice little storm. I have been looking for you all over the
plantation. No one had any idea where you were. I found Wright and sent Mercedes
in the house--she's had rather a narrow escape--from a falling tree. She's all
right, but hysterical--"

"I must go to her at once," I said, starting off. The long arm shot out and I
was pulled close to the tall, lean figure. "Just a minute," said Bill. "Mercedes
is all right, as I said. Sarah is with her. But I want to ask you this ... quite
aside from the danger you ran, in a wind like this, why did you disobey my
express wishes and go out--alone--away from the house?" Then I remembered. "I--"
said I, and was silent. Bill dropped my arm. "I suppose," he said with
bitterness, "it was because I asked you not to. Very well, I've learned my
lesson. You knew that Guayabal is in a very unsettled state: you knew that
Crowell had had trouble on his plantation: I told you there had been threats--
demonstrations. I asked you not to run any risks. That is why, I suppose, when
the opportunity arose, you deliberately ignored my wishes." "You are very
unjust," I said, fighting back the tears. "I hope so," said Bill quietly, "but
I'm afraid not. It seems as if we couldn't have a whole day of peace and
friendliness under the same roof. I've tried my best, Mavis, to be as little in
your way as possible--to make the best of a trying situation. But at every turn
you manage to antagonize me and to rebel against me. I might have known--"

He turned away and lighted a cigarette with fingers which shook. "I'm sorry," I
said, steadying my voice with an effort, "if I have annoyed you. I did not go
out this afternoon with such intention." I would have stopped there, but the
lift of his shoulders angered me until I finally lost all control of myself.
"I'll not be a burden to you long," I said. "As soon as we are home again I will
release you from your responsibilities. I have wanted to spare Father, but I see
that I can't--you go too far. I don't know how such things are done, but it
shouldn't be very difficult to obtain an annulment of our marriage. The whole
thing has been a ghastly mistake ... an impulse I have regretted ever since. But
it's not too late," I said, with my head held very high, "to rectify that
mistake." I walked past him into my own room. Somehow the pride that had always
come to my rescue was missing now. I was just hurt--hurt, and unhappy and very
lonely. To speak to me so! To look at me so, out of those steel-blue eyes! It
was not just; it was not anything but deliberate cruelty! Once having said that
I would make myself free, the thing crystalized for me as it had never done
before. Of course, I had meant all along to separate from my temporary husband.
That was understood at the outset. But it had seemed a long way off,
indefinitely vague. And now that my decision was spoken, it loomed very near.
Irrevocable. I shrank, in anticipation, from the publicity of it, the questions,
the prying eyes. Wright would wonder and grieve--and Mercedes--and I? I hardly
knew. On Father's sorrow and self-reproach I dared not dwell. Now I had nothing
left. I rose and bathed my eyes. They were swollen from crying and my throat
ached abominably. And then, with a tremendous effort, I opened my door and went
out to find Mercedes. She was in her room, shaken but quite recovered, and full
of gratitude to Wright for seeing her danger and pulling her away just in time.
"Where were you?" she asked anxiously. "You weren't hurt, were you? You look
dreadfully, Mavis!" Hurt? Yes, I was hurt beyond healing. But Mercedes must not
know. "I was in no danger," I said, evasively. "I came in just as the storm was
beginning." "You heard the roof go then?" she asked. "Wasn't it awful? It is a
wonder Bill wasn't killed--he was just driving the car in...."

"Bill?" I said, stupidly. "What's the matter? Didn't he tell you? You're white
as a sheet!" She jumped up from the bed and put her arms about me. "Mavis, are
you faint? Let me call Bill!" "Please don't," I said. "I'm all right now." The
dreadful dizziness had passed: my ears stopped singing and the room assumed its
normal aspect again. "If you don't mind," I said, "I'll lie down beside you for
a bit. Please don't tell anyone. I'm nervous, I suppose, and upset." And so, it
was in Mercedes Howells' arms that I finally cried myself into calmness. And
Mercedes, suddenly tender and very gentle, never asked why, and, bless her
heart, never told. CHAPTER XVIII

A day or so went by, devoid of any particular incident. If Bill and I spoke to
each other at all, it was to discuss our plans for leaving Cuba. The Goodriches
were returning shortly from Europe: Father sent a homesick-for-me cable from
Green Hill: the weather was beginning to grow very warm: in short, a hundred and
one things warned us that the Spring were better spent in the North. We fixed
our departure for a day not two weeks distant, and Bill went into Havana to book
our passage. Even in public we had dropped the pretence of marital banter. But
Wright and Mercedes, apparently absorbed in each other, did not notice: or, if
they did, kept each his and her own counsel, as far as I knew. The lazy, sun-
steeped days seemed interminable. I had, luckily, a number of things to arrange
--another trunk to buy and some sewing to accomplish, with Annunciata's help.
And Bill's obvious preoccupation could easily have been laid to the growing
unrest in Guayabal. Mr. Crowell, an anxious, nervous, but charming person, had
been more than once at "The Palms" to discuss the situation. If it had not been
for my husband's sense of responsibility towards the Reynolds, I think that we
should have packed up and left Cuba in short order. But he was anxious to stay
on for a time longer and see Silas, and what men were loyal to their American
employer, through what he hoped would prove a passing phase of revolt--or so he
said. As for me, I went through the days, weighted under a burden of uncertainty
and a sorrow without name. Father's miniature, lying open on my night-table,
seemed to reproach me: seemed, too, at times, to reproach himself, which was
even harder to bear. "I have done my human best for you," the gentle-strong
mouth seemed to say. "I have never wanted anything but your happiness, my little
Mavis." And the kind, humorous eyes added, "Is it my fault that I must hear you
sobbing through these long, unhappy nights?" No, not his fault. Whose, then? I
dared not ask the picture in the little leather case, for I was afraid it might
answer. "It is _his_ fault, Father," I would defend myself mutely. "We might
have been content, even happy, in a friendly way, if it had not been for him."
"It was not for Friendship alone that I gave you to him, Daughter," the answer
would come, "but for something dearer, bigger, deeper. You were so young and so
alien from the world. I had thought that the man to whom we both owe everything
would be the one to help you through all that first difficult time: to teach
you, finally, Life's loveliest lesson. And I had hoped, prayed even, that you
would one day come to be to him what your Mother was to me.... There was not
much time," the beloved voice went on, very sadly, "for me to make a decision.
It was hard to feel I might have to leave you ... alone ... unsheltered.... How
hard, you will never know ... unless some day you are called upon to leave a
child of your own...."

"Father!" I begged--"Please--"

"If the mistake was mine," said the voice which still seemed to come from that
unsmiling miniature, "I can only ask your forgiveness, Mavis. Even your Father,
who loves you beyond all earthly things, was wrong to try and shape your
destiny." "No--no--" I sobbed. I laid the minature on the table again. The voice
in my heart had ceased to speak: There were only the pictured eyes, looking into
mine from a little leather case. But for a long time, Father had talked to me
so. I read between the lines of his letters and prayed that he should not read
between the lying phrases of mine. Was it all lies? "I am happy," I told him
again and again: and he, who knew me so well, was convinced, perhaps because, in
a certain, curious sense, that much was true. Underneath bewilderment,
misunderstanding, the pinpricks of pride, and the smart of old resentments, I
_had_ been happy. It was as if I walked on a strange, new road, toward some
unknown goal, some unguessed shelter. There were turnings in the path: dark
places: uneven stretches: but always a bird sang, sweetly, in the distance,--the
sun cleared the clouds and Adventure waited for me just around the corner. But
lately, the ground had fallen away from under my very feet, and left me standing
at the edge of an abyss, looking across a chasm of despair, to the far country I
would never reach....

Mercedes knocked at my door, and came in. "You've been away so long," she said,
reproachfully. "Wright is going to mass with me, in the Church at Ceube. Won't
you come too, Mavis?" It's Sunday then, I thought, wondering how the days had
passed, nameless and unheeded by me--every one bringing me nearer--

"Sure you want me?" I asked, and at her assurance, I got my hat and set out with
her and Wright in the car. Bill drove us down: he didn't come in, but went about
other business after he had left us at the little church, solidly built of time
and weather stained adobe, red-roofed, and squatly towered. The small room was
filled with people. We squeezed into an already overcrowded pew, and kneeling, I
was almost drugged with the clouds of incense, and the hot, close air. At the
altar, the red-robed priest, very old and frail, intoned the ceremonial service.
A full-grown altar-"boy," black as his robes, and slippered, swung the heavy
censer, and looked over the audience for possible disturbances. They occurred
more than once. The brown babies cooed or cried, according to their several
temperaments; a mongrel dog ran in and out of the pews, at a late-comer's heels;
and here and there, a black-eyed girl looked over her shoulder at some
responsive cavalier who stood or knelt with the many worshippers lining the
walls. There was an amazing, almost tangible spirit in the place: a mingling of
childlike devotion and equally childlike theatricalism. The people came to the
service, like children to a parent, wholly natural, wholly simple, and yet not
wholly devoid of a certain dramatic instinct and, above all, keenly sensitive to
the sweet-scented vapor, the well-worn lace and vestments of the priest, the
solemn intonation of the Mass. Bright-winged birds flew astonishingly in and out
of the open-shuttered windows: the consumptive organ wheezed and muttered: the
voices of the people rose with a grave eagerness upon the heavy air. And here
and there an adventurous ray of sunshine fell alike on old and young heads,
lingered on the gay colors of the girls' dresses, slid like a finger of gold
over the red-robed priest at the little altar, and danced across the heavy,
smoky rafters of the ceiling. Mercedes, her lovely face hidden, told her silver
and pearl rosary. Wright, after his first moment of embarrassment and
instinctive recoil from so much massed humanity, was engrossed in her, in his
surroundings. I imagined I saw a picture shaping--a little more tender, a little
more serious than anything he had done yet. And I, kneeling in the stuffy chapel
with an alien people of a different expression of Faith, felt for the first time
in many, many hours, a sense of release, of peace, a cooling touch on my hot and
aching heart. Mass over, the people poured, laughing, talking, gesticulating out
into the thick, yellow sunshine. The half-flirtations which had deflected the
thoughts of some of the younger worshippers, were renewed and pursued. A young
mother sat on the steps of the church and bared her brown breast to her baby's
fumbling lips. She looked a deep-eyed Madonna, as she sat there, unconscious of
the people around her, a white mantilla framing her face. Her husband, a clean-
featured man, taller than the average Cuban, stood behind her, smoking, his
coarse white trousers dazzling in the sunshine, his bright purple "American"
shirt worn like a smock, after the "dress" regulations of Guayabal on Sunday.
Bill drove up presently, and as usual, the straggling children clustered around
the car. He was always dear with children--white or black, brown or yellow. They
were instantly his friends. Wiggles, riding proudly in the front seat, created
quite a sensation, and Mercedes, climbing in to hold him in her pretty,
primrose-dimity lap, had great difficulty in restraining him. "Where is his
collar, Mavis?" she asked, clutching the frantic dog to her demure, white
frills. "He was uncomfortable with it, in the heat," I answered. "Weren't you,
Wigglesworth? So I took it off--"

The car gave a sudden leap--and I knew that Bill had been listening for my
answer; knew that he knew that I could not throw innocent Wiggles away, but
that, when the mask had fallen from Richard Warren, I had, in a fit of anger,
taken away the too-significant collar. It was in my trunk--but sometimes I
wondered what had happened to my lucky charm of cool, green jade--flung from my
window in a moment of pure rage. Once, I had looked for it--the day after
Mercedes and I had siesta-ed in the palm-grove--not since. When we had arrived
home, Wright drew me mysteriously aside. "Let me see those last two poems of
yours again, will you, Mavis?" he said. "One of the men I was at college with
wants me to go in with him on a book-shop and publishing venture--you know, odd
books, quaintly bound, and all that sort of thing. He has his eye on a place in
Greenwich Village, and just the right, short-haired, but delusively shrewd girl
to run it--the shop end, I mean." "What do you want the verses for?" I asked
suspiciously. Wright grinned. "If I am to be the Angel in this affair," he said,
"how could I employ celestial qualities better than to boost my friends--and
incidentally, myself? We can collect your poems, publish them in a sufficiently
bizarre edition to attract attention--and, without letting Mr. John Denton's
solid and conservative firm into the secret--you can astonish your husband, by
Christmas, say, with a book of your own." "But," I argued, "they're not good
enough--"

"They're good enough for me," said Wright magnificently, "and it will be rather
fun, having a business of this sort to play with. It's one way of revenging
myself on those beastly tin-pans." I grew just a little excited, picturing
Bill's astonishment. And I would not be there to hear his criticism. I had a
dozen verses or more which Wright had not yet seen: the best, I thought, of all.
And, of the poems I had styled "Cuban Pastels," the two he had just spoken of
headed the group. 1          HAVANA HARBOR

Hued as a peacock's plumage, wide unfurled,      The sea dreams, smiling. Far
off, toylike, frail      A boat drifts to the blue edge of the world,      The
brilliant sunlight glinting from it's sail. An idle cruiser, sinister and grey,
Drifts, out of tune with sunlight and with dreams,      While, on the city-wall,
the rainbow-spray      Scatters to crystal, shot with opal gleams. The shore
curves tender as a clasping arm--      Like cardboard structures from a clever
hand,      Bright in the sun, and touched with old-world charm,      Unreal, the
ragged lines of houses stand. Dim with the Past, a fortress close-guards yet
A city whose once-fettered feet are free,      To wear, serene as some white-
limbed coquette,      The gold-and-sapphire anklet of the Sea. 2          MORRO
CASTLE

An old fortress, wrapped in magic sleep,      The city's crouching watchdog,
fronts the sea,      And locks stone lips on tales of dungeon-keep;      On
legends of dead terrors, buried deep;      And gives no hint of once-screamed,
strangled plea,      Choked to swift silence in the torture cell,      In ages
dark with bloody sweat of pain....      Ah! if the Morro ghosts could walk
again,      What whispered horror could those bruised throats tell,      Wrung
by the cruel, long hands of Ancient Spain! I gave the verses to Wright, after
luncheon,--all of them. He could do with them as he liked, I said. Revise,
correct, re-group. I was tired of singing songs, but I did not tell him that. In
my heart I thought I would be glad to have my verses, bound and shut in a little
book. They would remind me of Cuba, and of other things, when I was too old, too
armoured by time, to feel the hurt of remembering. I would keep my Diary, too,
against that distant day. Time, I had read, heals all. It was pleasant to think
that sometime the ache in my breast would be stilled. But I thought perhaps I
would miss it, it would grow to be part of me after a while--

Mercedes, looking in on me from the flowers screening the verandah where I sat,
asked coaxingly,

"Coming walking with us, Mavis!" "Us?" I inquired. "Wright, and Billy, and me."
I shook my hand. "I think not," I answered. "I have some letters to write."
"Billy said you wouldn't come," said she, pouting. "Did he?" For a moment I was
inclined to reconsider, but the delight of proving my husband wrong would not
have atoned for an hour of his society. And well I knew that Wright and Mercedes
would, eventually, wander off or get surprisingly lost, or accomplish one of the
fifty odd things which they managed so ingenuously, and which would rid them of
even the most friendly chaperonage. Mercedes waited. "Bill is right," I said,
"as always. I think I'll not go, Mercedes, if you and Wright don't mind." "Not
at all," she said generously, "only," and here her voice grew wistful, "only the
time is getting so short, Mavis. In two days I'll be going to Havana for the
Mendez dance--and to stay. And then, before we know it, you will be going home
again." "But you're following shortly," I reminded her. "With my family!" she
added. "Won't your Mother consider lending you to me for a while this summer?" I
asked. "I shall be--" and almost I had said "so very lonely" before I thought. I
stopped. "Shall be what?" asked Mercedes, coming up the steps and dropping to my
feet, on a crimson cushion. "So very glad to see you," I answered, and truly. "I
wonder," said Mercedes. "That's not very nice of you," I accused her. "I didn't
mean--what you said," she hastened to explain. "I only meant--I wonder if Wright
would wait over and go up with us? It is so dull," she went on, "just travelling
with the family, and Father likes him so much. What do you think, Mavis?" Mavis
thought that without Wright's pleasant, obtuse presence, that homeward voyage
would be a nightmare. But she did not say so. "I'm sure he'd love to," I
answered, smiling into the pretty, eager face, "especially if you ask him--very
nicely." Mercedes laid her flushed cheek for a minute against my knees. Through
the thin fabric of my gown I could feel the warmth of it. "You like Wright,
don't you?" she asked, a little anxiously. "And he's Billy's best friend--?" I
put my hand on her smooth, heavy hair. A scent, as of youth and flowers and
sunshine came to me from the polished coils of it. Wright was a very fortunate
young person. "I'm very fond of him, Silly," said I, "and Bill adores him.
There, is that recommendation enough?" She jumped up, in a whirl of skirts, and
kissed me impetuously: held me a moment in the clasp of her strong, young arms,
and then, her high heels clicking on the tiles, ran into the house. "More than
enough," she called over her shoulder. But when, charmingly hatted, dragging the
point of a butterfly sunshade after her, she went down the path between Bill and
Wright, there was no sign of her recent agitation on that smooth, creamy cheek.
Left alone, I sighed a little, and looked ahead. They had fallen in love so
wholeheartedly, so gaily, those two. I pictured them, if all went well, going
through life like the Princess and Prince in the fairy-tale, living "happily
forever after." She could love, I knew, that feather-brained, big-hearted little
friend of mine. She was young, too, younger than her years, an astonishing thing
in Southern women. She would be easily assimilated, would adapt herself
gracefully. And it was patent that she thought Wright head and shoulders above
the average cut of men. She had told me so, without knowing it, over and over
again. And Wright, diffident, sensitive Wright, under his absurdities and his
worldly airs? He would cherish her, I knew, and be good to her all his life:
invest her with a never-failing glamour, make her his model and his sovereign
lady: write madrigals about her: worship at her tiny feet. It was a very pretty
little Romance.... They would never have pain in their love, I thought: never
know undreamed of depths of agony and self-knowledge: never know secret shrines
despoiled, the altars overthrown, desecrated.... I heard Peter's voice in the
living room, and Sarah's asking where I was. I called to them and went in. It
was strange, I thought, as I discussed with Sarah the preliminaries of packing,
how much I seemed to know about Love. I, who had never known, nor felt any save
my Father's and that of my few, placid friends ... and perhaps that Love that is
all dream-stuff. And in my heart was a voice which questioned and which I dared
not answer. "How do you _know_?" it said to me. "_How do you know?_"

I closed my ears to it and drew Peter into my lap. "Will you be glad to go
home?" I asked him. "Well," said Peter, considering, "there's--Silas." "So there
is," I assented. "Couldn't he come with us?" asked Peter, coaxingly. "He could
sleep in my room--"

I looked at Sarah, for appreciation of this. Lean, long Silas lodging in Peter's
small nest. And I looked twice. Sarah, her head bent over an armful of my gowns,
was--_blushing_! I couldn't believe my eyes. I might have fancied the Rock of
Gibraltar moved to such soft symptoms of complexion, before Sarah. "Why, Sarah!"
I said, in amazement. The difficult red crept up to her honest eyes. She raised
them and met mine, and what I saw there was very beautiful. I put Peter off my
lap. "Run out and play for a while, dear," I said, "before tea." And then,

"Sarah?" "He's a good man, Miss Mavis," she answered, clutching the gowns to
her, ruinously--my careful Sarah! "And we're neither of us so young, nor so
flighty that we wouldn't know our own minds. Mr. Reynolds has written him that
he has a buyer for the place, and we thought that when things was settled down
here, Silas could come up North to Green Hill--and--"

"But, Sarah," I cried out, in childish dismay, "I can't lose you--I can't--"

She put the gowns on a nearby chair and touched my hair with her faithful old
hand. "Indeed, Miss Mavis," she said earnestly, "not for a hundred Silases would
I leave you: But Silas spoke to the Doctor about a place--and the Doctor said he
needed a man to drive for him, and so, if you want us, we could both stay on. No
one could take care of you," she said, jealously, "except me." "Does the Doctor
know--about you?" I asked. "Silas didn't tell him--and I was going to wait until
we got home. It come all at once," she explained, "but Silas thinks maybe he's
guessed--"

And I had been so blind--so blind to the times when Sarah walked out with Silas,
for "a breath of air": so blind to the long silences in the kitchen of an
evening, under Norah's cordial, Irish eyes. "It's wonderful!" I said, at last.
"Silas is a lucky man. I'm awfully happy for you, Sarah." "You ain't angry?" she
asked timidly. "You don't think it's foolishness--at my age?" "I think it's
beautiful," I said, and as she turned to go, I put out a hand to draw her near,
to kiss her. The only mother I had ever known, faithful, self-sacrificing,
tender--I was glad that her old age would be sheltered and made happy for her.
After she had gone, I sat for a long time in silence. The voices of the others,
their steps on the path, aroused me. And, as I went out obediently to Wright's
hail, I thought of Mercedes--and now Sarah--each with her love-story and her
pride: the enchanting, spoiled young daughter of America and Spain with her
poet, and the elderly woman, austere as her own New England, her shoulders bent
in my service, with a good man of her own kind--. Well, Father was left to me,
thank God--but--

I felt terribly lonely. CHAPTER XIX

The morning the Howells' car came to take Mercedes and Wright to Havana and the
Mendez dance, Mrs. Howells came with it. She would not wait for luncheon, but
had a little talk with me while Mercedes, in a flutter, was collecting her
things. It was a very little talk, and consisted mostly in shruggings of the
maternal shoulders, lifting of the placid, maternal brows, and half-finished
phrases, unspoken questions. And she left, indolently satisfied. The tin-pans
had won her. I foresaw a cloudless sky of courtship for Wright, as far as his
Mercedes' mother was concerned. Mercedes, promising to "return" Wright on the
morrow, was reluctant to go. "I've been so happy here," she whispered, as she
kissed me good-by. "You'll never know how happy. And I'm so grateful, Mavis!"
She kissed Bill, too, when her mother's back was turned, the merest ghost of a
caress, brushing his cheek, accompanied by a little giggle of pure mischief. And
he patted her slim shoulders with a tolerant hand, as he bade her "run along and
enjoy her party." "My aunt!" said Wright to me, tragically, "couldn't you
persuade the old lady to sit in the front seat with that brigand in a general's
uniform who is driving the car?" I waved them farewell with a sinking at my
heart. It was as if Youth and Gaiety were leaving me, hand in hand, with never a
backward glance. I did not see Bill again until luncheon an hour later. It was
one of our old-time silent meals, although we talked in a desultory manner,
while the slippered servitors were in the room. Bill passed me salt after the
manner of an ancient monarch handing poison--with deadly courtesy. I responded
with pepper. And after Wing and Fong had left us, at the end of the meal, I
tried desperately to make small talk. "I miss Mercedes so much," I said, "and
Wright too." No answer. "It looks like a match," said I presently. "It does,"
said Bill, gloomily. I waited. "Wright's crazy about her," proffered my husband,
after a time, leaning back in his chair. "Did he tell you so?" I asked
curiously. "Kept me up one whole night, expatiating on her charms and his
extreme unworthiness," he replied. I laughed. "When I think of the things he
said about her at first: 'female leopardess,' and 'did you take him for a lion
tamer?'" I said, "it really is funny." "A little antagonism at the outset," said
Bill, blowing neat rings, "is very good for the course of true love--sometimes."
I was silent. "Of course," said Bill, positively growling, "it's a lottery
anyway--"

He was so absurd, so little-boyish, so ill-tempered, that I wanted to mother
him. I had seen Peterkins just like that when things went wrong.--After all, I
thought, it must be trying to be even temporarily bound to a woman you dislike
so much. "Speaking of lotteries," I said lightly, "you haven't heard the results
of the last drawing, have you?" "No," he answered, "but Silas is counting the
hours until the afternoon when the papers come up--he bought half a dozen
tickets from that chap who rode up here the other day--"

He rose from his chair and called the garage on the phone. By a miracle, Silas
was there, and I heard Bill ask him the number of his tickets. Then, jotting
them down, he called Havana and some mysterious person and asked for the winning
numbers. As he spoke in rapid Spanish, I was forced to wait until he turned from
the phone to say, "By George, Silas has made a killing!" I jumped up and was at
his elbow when he put the receiver down. "Oh what is it?" I asked, fairly
dancing with excitement. "Not the big prize," he answered, "but $1500 for all of
that--"

"Sarah will die of joy," I began. "So it's true then," said Bill, interrupting.
"True as true," I answered, "and I think it's splendid." "I thought there was
something afoot," said Bill, "when Silas asked for a job with me. I was glad to
give him one. He can be useful to me in a hundred ways. He's a corker--"

"They could build a little house at the back of the garden. Father would be so
pleased--" I said, eagerly. "Sarah wouldn't leave me, you know--"

I stopped. Bill, with his hat in his hands, turned. "It will be difficult to
arrange that," he said, "as you have made other plans. And I shall leave Green
Hill--so I am afraid," he concluded evenly, "that a 'little house in the garden'
--unless _you_ wish to keep Silas on--wouldn't be quite feasible." He went out
with that, and it was some time before I had pulled myself together and gone in
to tell Sarah the news. I saw her later, flying in a most indecorous manner
toward the garage, and knew that she and Silas would presently be sitting on the
step of the car building air-castles in Green Hill with their new fortune. Well
I knew that one of them would be reared in the back of my little garden, just as
I thoughtless enough, had one. It wouldn't be fair to hurt Sarah now, I told
myself. I would wait till we were home. Sarah would be sorry--she liked Bill--
but Father would keep both Sarah and Silas on--the place needed a permanent man-
of-all-work.... But there were breakers ahead--bitter waters. I was to be spared
nothing--nothing--to the final humiliation. There was a letter from Father when
the mail came in. It isn't necessary to set it down here. Suffice it to say that
something I had said in my last letter about his never-failing generosity to me,
had called forth a denial that "the bit of pin-money--to make you feel
independent, dear!" amounted to anything. And then a word about the income Bill
had settled on me: "I think you should know, Mavis," he concluded, "although I
am breaking word with Bill. He told me he didn't want your small, unworldly head
to be bothered with money matters. But it is time that you learned to be
practical--"

He mentioned the little allowance he had insisted on making me: it would hardly
have paid for my shoes. And eventually it was clear to me that the money in the
bank ... my clothes ... my lovingly purchased gifts for my friends ... Sarah's
wages ... my many extravagances since coming to Cuba ... everything, everything
had come from the one source ... Bill. And I, more ignorant than any child about
the value of money, had not even asked, except once. And then he had lied to me,
had told me it was my money, my Father's money, and all the time I had been
living on charity. How well he knew me, that he took the chance that I would not
ask Father for a definite statement of what allowance he was making me! I was
overwhelmed with shame and dismay. It seemed as if this were the proverbial last
straw. "They make gold out of straws, don't they?" my sick brain inquired
childishly. It was hard to think coherently. I went to the telephone and called
the garage. Silas answered. I managed, somehow, to congratulate him on the
lottery drawing before I asked him to find Dr. Denton, please, and ask him to
come up to the house, if he were not too busy. I wished to speak to him. Ten
full, wretched minutes I endured before he came. "Is anything the matter?" he
asked, bursting in precipitately. Mutely, I gave him the letter. He read it, and
crumpled the sheets in his hand. Instantly on the defensive,

"Well?" he said. "Was there any reason to lie to me?" I counter-questioned,
quietly. "You must have known that, sooner or later, I would know ... if not
now, then when I saw Father again." I think my eyes warned him that this was a
time for very plain speaking. "I had hoped," he answered, after a little pause,
"to persuade your Father to bear me out in what I believed a harmless enough
conspiracy.--After all," he added, breaking my persistent silence, "it would be
difficult to explain to your Father that you refused to let me support you." "I
am sorry," I said, rather more gently than I felt, "to have been more of a
burden on you than I knew. Had I known, had I for one instant dreamed that I
would be dependent on you, I would never have consented to this arrangement.
This may sound very foolish, I know, and I see now how impossible it all would
have been,--but this is how I felt, and you, I think, knew." He nodded, eyes on
mine. "Yes," said he. "You have had a very pretty revenge," I told him, each
word dropping like a cold, little stone into the hush of the big room. "You must
have laughed, often, to yourself. No doubt it has been very amusing, waiting for
the bubble to break. If you will make me out a statement, as nearly as you can,
of just how much I am indebted to you, I will try to repay you little by
little." I felt the absurdity of the situation, the utter arrogance and futility
of my words as I spoke them. But I had to speak. "Please--" he flung out a
protesting hand, "why do you fret yourself with trifles? Are you not willing to
make some further sacrifice for your Father? When the time comes for us to
separate, I had hoped--after all, it would be only the usual thing to do--to
make you an allowance." "Did you intend to consult me about it?" I asked,
furiously. He hesitated. "Please answer," I said. At my tone, he raised his
eyebrows ever so slightly. "I am waiting," I announced, with dangerous patience.
"Well--I admit the situation seemed difficult, but it was in the future," he
answered finally, "and I thought, perhaps--"

"Never mind. You would have gone out of my life with the amusing knowledge that
you had a hold on me, to a certain extent? It was well planned," I said, growing
colder and colder minute by minute, until in the sunny warmth of the windows I
shivered uncontrollably. "But you must have thought me even more of an imbecile
than I am. I owe you," I ended, "a large sum of money. When we are separated,
when Father gets used to that fact, and when he realizes how well I am, how
strong, there will be some sort of work for me somewhere, I am sure, that will
both occupy my time, and enable me to repay you." "Work?" said Bill, and then,
under his breath, "My God!" He was angry, I knew--hurt, I felt. And I was glad.
"I am not a--charity patient, Dr. Denton!" I said, and left the room. The rest
of that day is a blank to me now. If I had suffered before, I suffered a
thousand-fold now. I could not look at the miniature. I was even angry with
Father--dearest Father, who had done his "human best" for me. I hated myself, I
hated life, I wanted to die. To be laughed at; to have had my little defiances
and independences met with the secret thought "the very clothes on her back were
bought with my money"; to have been fooled and fooled again, to his heart's
content; to have lived on the bounty of a man who despised me, hurt and wounded
me at every turn--it was unbearable. When I was home again, when the tangle
finally became unraveled, I would go to Uncle John. I would ask him frankly what
to do; tell him the whole, bitter little story; ask him to find work for me--
reading proof, correcting manuscript, scrubbing floors--I didn't care. There
were business schools, I thought vaguely--and cursed the years of invalidism
which had kept from me so much knowledge of the world, so unfitted me to cope
with it, once I was on my material feet. Father need never know. He would think
it a whim, would be, I imagined, even a little proud, would believe, even, that
I sought to distract myself after the wreck of my married life. Other women had
done the same thing. I thought of the city as I had seen it: the crowds and the
loneliness and the bleakness of the streets: the hurrying, uncaring people--I
had read of girls in the city; the indignities of the boarding house; the strain
and the demand and the difficult way that lies before the untrained wage-
earner--

Mavis of Green Hill in a New York office! I laughed aloud at the thought, and
the sound of my own voice frightened me. I couldn't cry. Somehow, I hadn't a
tear left. I could only clench and unclench my hands on the lap of the little
mauve gown which William Denton had bought for me--I wondered if Mrs. Goodrich
knew. It had been she who had attended to all my purchases before I left Green
Hill, who had gone into town with my measurements and returned with two trunks
full of everything I needed, and assured me that the "bill was taken care of."
What a fool I had been! I did not go out to tea. Sarah brought me something in
my room. I told her I had a headache. It was the truth. And through my closed
door I could hear Bill's voice asking for me. Mr. Crowell was there; he had
ridden over some time before. I sent my regrets and stayed in my room. At dinner
I hardly spoke. I was too conscious of the clothes I wore, the food I ate. The
one burdened me, the other choked me. Bill, which was unusual, talked nervously
all through the meal, about everything and nothing. Even through the dull sense
of impotence and anger that possessed me, I could see that he was ill-at-ease,
excited, waiting for something--waiting, perhaps, for me to reopen the last
painful chapter. He could wait, I thought. We had just been served with salad,
when Fong came in, brushed Wing aside, and bent over Bill, saying something very
low. A little gleam of some inner excitement came into the steel-blue eyes. He
flung down his napkin. "Tell Juan to wait," he said, and rose. "I beg your
pardon," he said formally to me, "but I am afraid that you must eat your dinner
alone. Someone has come up from the village to see me." "Juan?" I asked. "Is
Annunciata ill again?" "No, no," he was clearly impatient and started from the
room. "Shall I have Norah save some dinner for you?" I asked, mechanically.
"Don't bother," he said, hesitated, and then, suddenly crossing the room in four
strides, he was beside me. I felt his hand on my hair and stiffened under the
unaccustomed touch. The hand dropped to his side. "Don't think so badly of me,
Mavis," he said, "even if you have been a 'charity patient'--do you know the
Bible meaning of Charity?" Before I could speak, he was gone. He had not changed
for dinner, a real innovation, and was in riding things. I heard the ring of the
little spurs he wore on the tiles, and the sound of a closing door. "The Bible
meaning of Charity?" But that was--that was--Love. What did he mean--a love-
patient? I sat, my hands under my chin, while Wing came and went with the
untasted food. A love-patient? Something terribly sweet and keen pierced my
heart. It couldn't be. Love wasn't like that--cruel and wounding and hurting.
Love "suffereth long and is kind." That was in the Bible too. "Love suffereth
long and is kind--seeketh not its own--beareth all things, believeth all things,
hopeth all things, endureth all things. Love never faileth." The big tears ran
down my cheeks. "_Love never faileth._"

If it was true then--"Oh, God, let it be true!" I prayed, mutely. If it were
true then, how blind I had been! Sacrifice--patience--hope--. Would he have done
so much for someone he despised--even for revenge? I began to remember--

There were voices outside--loud, excited, almost hysterical--Was Bill there? I
waited for him in my chair. I had not moved. He would find me as he had left me.
Perhaps he had come back to tell me what he had meant. Charity--Love. The door
flew open and Sarah burst in. She was crying. I saw that at once, and wanted to
say to her,

"So you have heard? It isn't true, Sarah, it wasn't charity, after all, it was
love--"

But she came straight to me and caught desperately at my hands,

"Miss Mavis,--the cane--it's been set afire--Silas is down there, and Dr.
Denton--"

Then I awoke. "Dr. Denton!" I had her by the shoulders, I was shaking her--"Not
Dr. Denton!" "Yes, Miss Mavis. Juan crept up here to warn him. But those devils
fired the cane while he was in this very house. Fields of it in flame, and Silas
there--"

She was in a chair now, her apron twisted between her work-worn fingers, the
sobs taking her by the throat. Funny that she could cry like that, I thought,
watching her. I must give her something to make her stop--if Bill were here--

_Bill! Bill!_

I must have screamed. Sarah, her arms around me, was herself in a minute, had
herself in hand. "There, there," she said soothingly. "They'll be all right, I
am sure. You're to be calm, Miss Mavis, and not take on so." Calm! With the Far
Country just within reach--and the fire sweeping across the cane-fields. I put
her away from me. "Go to the kitchen, Sarah dear," I said very quietly, "and
wait for news. Have Wing and Fong gone too?" She nodded. "I'll wait here," I
said. "I had better get out the Doctor's kit and all the first-aid things.
Someone may be burned--"

She sobbed at that, but turned and went to the kitchen. I went into Bill's room.
For a minute I did nothing--only touched the things on his bureau--his brush,
his comb--

A little snap-shot of me stood there. Of me, in a wheel-chair--I had forgotten
that--

I opened a leather case which stood on the bureau, it had his initials on it,
and a small key lay beside it. Opened it and saw my letters to Richard Warren.
They were tossed together, as if he had been reading them. He had told me that
he never kept letters. Somehow, I found the first-aid things and the little
emergency case. They were on the table by his bed. And then, taking them into
the living-room, I called out to Sarah to find some linen and tear it into
sheets--we had very little gauze in the house. My hands on the first-aid kit, I
sat down to think. It was too bad Wright was not here. He would not lose his
head. But Mercedes would. I was glad she was in Havana. Suddenly I laughed to
think of them, dancing at the Mendez ball--

Sarah came in, her hands full of an old sheet. "Any news?" I asked, steadily.
"It's going fast," she said dully. "You can see it--"

I went to the window. The whole sky was crimson. I saw the smoke wreathing up
through the flame, fancied that I heard shouts--strained my eyes for the sight
of a tall, lean figure. He would come soon, I knew, and tell me that it had been
a nightmare, that he was safe, that he had been in no danger--

I looked around. Sarah had gone out, quietly. No one was there. Softly I went
across the room, opened the door, and slipped like a ghost into the menacing
night. I walked at first. Then ran. The plants and trees caught at my dress.
They wanted to hold me back. I shook myself free and went on. Nearer and nearer.
How much smoke there was! The whole last crop gone. Thousands of arrobas of
sugar, gone in a breath! Good, loyal Juan, I thought, as I went on, stumbling,
falling once to my knees. My dress was ruined. Bill will buy me another, I said
aloud. Not Charity--Love. Suddenly I was in the midst of it. The flame and the
smoke, the hurrying figures, black with soot and sweat, digging the trenches
that might save the cane. "Bill!" My own voice pierced through the smoke and
crackle. I was going on. I would not stop until I had found him. Was that Bill,
blackened, a figure in a dream, his shirt burned away from one bare shoulder.
There were red marks on his shoulder--

He didn't hear me? Didn't he want to? Was he angry? I was sorry I had been so
foolish, but I hadn't known that he cared. Why hadn't he told me? Or had he
tried to, and I wouldn't listen? "Bill!" A spark on my dress--a glare and a
flame. I was part of the roaring and the smoke and the crimson glare about me,
beating at the little, licking, red tongues with ineffectual hands. Death then?
But I wanted to live! It wasn't fair! Bill! His arms about me, his bare hands
crushing out the flames, his agonized voice in my ears--

"Mavis! My darling!--"

I was safe. I tried to put my arms around his neck, but they fell weakly to my
side. He took my hands in his and clasped them where they belonged. I was
lifted, borne swiftly through the night. Crimson flame and smoke--a roaring--a
voice pleading with me to raise my head, to answer, only to speak--.
Darkness....

CHAPTER XX

Once, in the night, I awoke--fully. Before that, there had been periods of half-
stupor, and then, a deep, restful sleep. But just for a minute, I was wide-
awake, abnormally conscious. "Bill?" He was sitting beside the bed. The light
was very dim. His hand was on my bandaged hand which was lying over the sheet.
"Dearest?" "You're all right?" "I'm well," he said, "and you will be much better
in the morning. Close the dear eyes now, and sleep." "You won't go away?"
"Never. Go to sleep, Mavis." In the morning he was still there, sleeping,
wrapped in his funny, fuzzy bathrobe, in a big chair close to the bed. His hand
was still on mine. I looked for a long minute at his tired face. One eyebrow was
burned almost all off. There were marks of burns on his face. And he was smiling
in his sleep. I felt so rested, so very well, except for a languor and a
weakness. My hands pained me. Both, I was amused to discover, were bandaged.
There was a little burn on my arm. Through water and fire--

"Good morning!" said Bill, smiling at me. I closed my eyes against the look in
his. It was beautiful to have him look at me so, but I could not bear it.
"G-Good morning," said I, and felt the hot color flood my face. From the tips of
my toes to the roots of my hair I was blushing. It was very early. The sudden
tropical dawn was only a few minutes old. There was a riot of bird-song outside
the window, and a wonderful, dew-washed breeze blowing through the room.
"Mavis?" said Bill. He was on his knees beside the bed. I put out one bandaged
hand and clumsily touched his hair. "Do you know what you've done?" he asked.
"Been a fool, as usual," I suggested, looking ruefully at the bandages. "Sweet
little fool," he said, in that new, deep voice. "Mavis, how could you, you
frightened me almost to death--?" I thought of those leaping flames, the angry,
crimson sky, and shuddered. "I'm sorry," I said meekly. He gave a little low
laugh under his quickened breath. "You love me!" announced my husband
arrogantly, beginning, as usual, at the wrong end. "Why so I do!" I admitted in
a small voice. His arms went around me, gently, closely, and I shut my eyes
under the touch of his lips on their lids. The dawn-birds were singing--in the
room: in my heart. "I love you," said Bill, and kissed my mouth. I lay quite
still then, between tears and laughter. "It has taken you," I said, "a very long
time to find it out!" "It took me," he contradicted pleasantly, "about three
minutes. From the very first--darling." "Me, too!" said I, in utter
astonishment. It was true. From the very first. I had fought a good fight, I
thought, as I lay there in my utter content, against this heavenly surrender. I
pity men who never know this wonderful release of self. Followed a half-hour of
the most ridiculous cross-examination:

"When did you first--?" "Do you remember--?" "How could you say--?" "Whose girl
are you, Mavis? Tell me!" And all the rest of the eternal litany of lovers.
Sarah, peeped in to see how I was. Silas, I discovered from her beaming
countenance, was all right. I had forgotten to ask. It was with assumed
enthusiasm that I heard that a portion of the cane had been saved. It really
didn't matter--not to me. Nothing mattered. Only Bill, and my sense of Harbor in
the Far Country of my dreams--

"Such a nice fire!" I said, happily, my face on Bill's one unscarred shoulder.
"You little wretch!" He kissed me again. Norah arrived with a very early
breakfast. I twisted in Bill's hold. To no avail. Bar, again, such strong bars,
so tender, so utterly protective. "What's the matter?" "Norah--"

"But," said Bill in triumph, after the door had been shut behind the smiling
woman, "after all, Mavis, we're married!" "Why, so we are!" I sat up in bed and
stared at him. "It's not fair!" said I, hotly. "What?" "We've not even been
engaged," I said, "or anything. I don't like it!" "Don't you, honestly?" I shook
my head, and then nodded, violently. "You darling!" said my new Bill. "You
lovely little thing. I adore you--"

"Why didn't you tell me so before?" I asked, in what was a deplorably peevish
tone. "Tell you! And get my face slapped! You were the prickliest small
porcupine, for all your soft ways--rather not! But Gosh," said Bill, "it was
hard--"

"You might have saved us a lot of trouble," said I reproachfully. He got to his
feet and sat on the edge of the bed. "Might I? I didn't know, you see. I had had
your repeated assurance that you regarded me as dirt under your little feet. How
could I tell you?" "You were awfully stupid!" said I, with keen satisfaction.
But he was kissing my finger-tips, protruding stiffly through the neat
bandaging. "Dear little hands!" he said. "Oh, Mavis--if anything had happened to
you--"

"If anything had happened to _you_--!" said I, and for a moment we looked at
each other in a sort of blind horror. Presently he smiled. "But we're as right
as rain!" said he. "We're young, all life before us--and we love each other--
Thank God!" he ended, on a deep, grave note. "Thank God!" said I, and put my
arms up to him. When he raised his head, his eyes were shining. "My beloved
wife!" said Bill. I put him from me for a moment--looked into his eyes.
"Please," I said, very low, "it's all so new--and a little terrifying. I--I
didn't know I could feel like this. Will you let us go on just as we are--for a
little while--? Perhaps I'm silly--but--I can't help it. Please," I begged,
"won't you let me get a little used to you--?" His eyes were very tender now.
"Of course," he said. "You know that." "A real engagement!" said I happily.
"That's the best thing, after all," said Bill, laughing, "married first, and
then engaged for the rest of one's life!" He held me very closely. "I'll cherish
you always," he said, "all my life long. I've wanted you so--Mavis. You'll never
know. God bless you, my dearest!" "Father," I said in my heart, "you were right:
you knew. I'm so happy--"

And my heart answered me. "Where are you going?" said I, sternly, to my husband,
as he laid me back on my pillows and turned away. "Outside," said he, with the
old, impish grin, "to dance a fandango on the lawn! And, incidentally, to put on
some clothes and pretend an intelligent interest--which I don't in the least
experience--in Harry Reynolds destroyed sugar-crop. Bless those incendiary
natives!" he added, piously. "Back soon?" I asked. "Don't look at me like that!"
said Bill severely, "or I won't be able to go! As your physician I forbid you to
endanger my pulse. It is hardly normal now. Try and rest, dear, and when I come
back I want to see more steady color in your cheeks. You've had a pretty bad
shock, Mavis--"

"I should say I have!" I said, in tones I vainly tried to infuse with self-pity.
"How about yourself?" He blew me a kiss--just a mean, tiny one--and vanished
without answering, but poked his head in at the door immediately after, to ask,
seriously,

"Shall I bring you a statement of your indebtedness to me when I return, Mrs.
Denton?" "I wish I'd cost you more," said I, crossly. "You just wait--I'm going
to buy a trousseau when I get to New York that will put you in the poor-house.
I'm afraid," said I primly, "that I must ask you to wait for your settlement,
Doctor." "I'll keep you so in debt," he declared, "that you will never be able
to struggle out, and you'll pay me in love, young person, for every sleepless
night I've spent, and every swear I've sworn behind closed doors, and for every
time I've wanted to take you in my arms and kiss you till you cried for mercy--"

"I think--I shouldn't have cried," I said, reflectively. He was back in the room
again. "For heaven's sake," said I, extricating myself with some difficulty,
"what will people think--door open and everything?" But it was fully ten minutes
before he really went. I closed my eyes, and with Father's miniature under my
pillow, tried to sleep. So happy--so happy! It was hard to lie still and think.
So I didn't think. I kissed the ring on my finger, under the bandages, half a
dozen times, and slept, at last, drifting from dream into dream. Life was very
wonderful. And the Love that had suffered and strayed was the most perfect, at
the last. For all the times I had hurt him, how I would repay my husband, with
depth on depth of devotion. I would make it up to him--

Through water and fire....

CHAPTER XXI

The boat pulled slowly away from the docks. Standing at the rail, I could
plainly see the brilliant feather on Mercedes' little French hat, nodding in the
breeze. A fleck of white was in her hand, now fluttering frantically, now at her
eyes. Wright, beside her, was gesticulating like a semaphore, and not far away,
Silas was straining his keen eyes to catch the last glimpse of his Sarah.
Presently the docks faded into a vari-colored blur, and Bill pulled me away from
the rail. "Good-by, Cuba!" I said, waving my hand for the last time, as I
turned. "You're not crying?" he asked, teasingly. "No," I dried my eyes a little
defiantly, "but I have loved it so. Color and warmth and sunshine," I said,
watching the soft pastel shades of the shore line, where Morro Castle stood,
dazzling in the light, its stone feet set in blue waters, "and I hated to leave,
somehow--"

"We'll go back," said he. "No, don't go below. Sarah will unpack and settle for
you. I bribed the steward to give us these chairs. Sit down, darling, and let me
tuck you up." Obediently, I sat, and he sprawled his long length beside me,
cupping his pipe in his hands, to shield the match flare from the wind. "But," I
argued, "it won't be like going back to 'The Palms.' I'll hate the nasty people
who are going to buy it--do you suppose they'll buy Arthur, too?" "Do you want
him?" asked Bill. I turned my hand so that the light fell on the big, new
diamond on my finger. Bill had bought it in Havana, two days after the fire. It
was my engagement ring, he said, and I had gotten up more than once in the last
few nights to admire it by candle or moonlight. It was like a drop of dew. I
told him that when he gave it to me, and he had added "on a white flower," and
had kissed the finger he slipped it on. "Want Arthur? I think not. He'd be the
scandal of Green Hill, and perhaps he'd not thrive away from Guayabal--"

"Shall I buy 'The Palms'?" asked Bill, pushing his cap back from his forehead,
so that the sun fell across his face. "Are you crazy?" I demanded. "Possibly."
He slipped his hand under the rug across my knees and took mine. "What do you
think?" he asked, gravely. "I think you are," said I. "Such extravagance!
Delusions of grandeur. But, anyway, I'd rather we built our own house--"

"So would I," said Bill, with satisfaction. "Couldn't we add to the Green Hill
house?" I asked, "an office for you--and more rooms? Do you mind?" I said. "So
much of me is in that house. I don't want to forget those years--. And I was
born there. My Mother came there as a bride--and I think Father will want us to
live there always--unless," I added careful, "you have other plans, Doctor
Denton?" Bill laughed. "No. When we get home, if your Father is willing, I'll
turn you loose with painters and carpenters and decorators--as long as I may
always smoke, even in the 'best parlour' and as long as you don't banish me and
my bottles to the garage--for we'll have to have a garage, you know, and I've
spoken to Silas about that little house in the garden. There's lots of room."
"Chintz," I said dreamily, "creton,--lots of it--and another fireplace--and
oodles of bookshelves. Bill, may I dig in the garden next summer?" "I shouldn't
wonder," he answered cheerfully. "You're really remarkably strong--beyond my
wildest hopes. I was amazed to see how soon you recovered from the effects of
the fire--"

I looked at the little scars on my hands. They would go, eventually, I knew.
Bill had said so. I was a little sorry. "Were you?" I asked. "But I had a very
good doctor, and wonderful medicine--"

He kissed me, to the horror of a passing elderly couple. "Then," said I,
straightening my cap, "you'll practise in Green Hill, after all? People will say
you'll be burying yourself there--"

"Let 'em," said Bill. "I shall have time, at last, for all the things I want to
do. Time, ambition and encouragement. We'll have a laboratory--away from the
house, so your little nose won't be offended and turn up even more--"

"It doesn't," said I, one hand to the insulted feature. "It does. Don't
contradict. I love it!--A laboratory," he went on, "and I can work again on that
cancer-cure--"

"Oh, Bill," I said, "isn't it wonderful? To think that perhaps you can bring a
blessing to all the world, and I may help--a little--"

We were silent for a while--such a comfortable, understanding silence. "Aunt
Mavis," said Peter, appearing suddenly on deck, "Sarah has gone to bed!" "Is she
ill?" I asked, viewing the water, which was like blue glass. "Not yet," said
Peter gravely, "but she says she's taking no chances!" "Poor Sarah!" I said, as
Bill laughed. "Stay here with your uncle, Peterkins, and I'll go and see if I
can do anything for her." When I returned, I found my young charge and my
husband hanging perilously over the rail, watching the antics of the flying-
fish. "Aren't they pretty?" I asked, joining them, "like tiny, colored
aeroplanes." We watched for some time in silence, and then Peter growing sleepy,
for we had gotten up very early that morning, Bill tucked him into a rug in a
chair, and we left him asleep almost instantly, to walk the deck until luncheon.
"I've got a scheme," said Bill. "Want to hear?" "Uh-huh!" said I. "New York
first. Uncle John's, or, if you'd rather, a hotel. Your Dad will meet us. We'll
ship Sarah on to Green Hill with Peter, to get the house in order and to look
after the boy until the Goodriches return. When is it--ten days? And after
you've gone on that shopping orgy you threatened me with, I'll have one of the
men bring my car down from Green Hill and we'll motor. Would you like that?"
"Oh, Bill, where?" I asked, skipping a little, and collapsing up against his
side as the boat rolled. "Cape Cod, I thought, if you'd care about it. There's a
dear old inn at Provincetown--I know you'd love it. We could go there, for a
week or so--it's so early yet we'd have the place to ourselves. And then, early
in May, back to Green Hill and settle for the summer. What do you think?" "I
think you're a darling!" I answered, brazenly, and with just the effect I had
calculated. And after we had told each other several times that no one in the
world could be as happy and as much in love as we were--and firmly believed it,
too I--Bill said suddenly,

"I cabled Mother from Cuba--and wrote her. She will meet us in New York." "For
heaven's sake," said I, "do you think she'll like me?" "Can't tell," said Bill,
solemnly, "she's odd. But, after all, it isn't as if you were a stranger. You've
corresponded with her, you know, and she made you some bed-socks. That's a
bond." "But that was Richard Warren's mother," I said, not quite convinced.
"She's mine too. Funny, isn't it? I think you've committed bigamy." "Is she
really little and blue-eyed and red-haired?" I asked, "or was that poetic
license?" "Honest truth. She's the prettiest thing in the world--except you. And
I've written her all about it." "Did she know that I didn't know you were you?"
I asked somewhat incoherently. But he understood. That was one of the nice
things about Bill--recently, anyway. He was the Person Who Understood. He
nodded. "Yes, but she didn't know everything--not that we were married." "Why?"
I asked, curiously. He smiled down at me, very big, very protective. "Why, you
see," said Bill gently, "she knew that I loved you. And she'd got to love you
too. After all, she has a weakness for me, and an unbounded faith in my choice.
And so--well, I didn't want to disappoint her--didn't want her to know how
matters stood--that we weren't quite happy. So I waited. After a while, I grew
afraid that she would have to be told after all--"

"Please, don't," I said hastily. "What did you write her?" "Cabled first:
'Married Mavis. Meet us in New York at Uncle John's as soon as you can.' And
then, I wrote and sent it by someone who was sailing sooner. She will break the
trip from California in Chicago, she has cousins there. I hope the letter will
catch her." "I've never had a mother," I said, the least bit wistfully. "You
have one now," said Bill. Cuba had long since disappeared. I closed my eyes for
a second to keep the memory of all we had left clear and vivid. The Palms--the
cane, as it had looked before the fire, emerald-green and graceful--the red soil
of Guayabal and the long, white roads--the mountains in the distance--the palm-
trees, straight as arrows, with their rustling tops--my own orchids, little
lavender balloons--peacocks and ox-carts--naked brown babies creeping in the sun
--sunlight on adobe and thatch--and Arthur, screaming raucously for his morning
coffee. No, I would never forget. The trip passed like a dream. Peter found some
American children to play with on the boat, and romped with them under the
watchful eyes of a correct English nurse. Sarah, with Wiggles, kept to her
cabin. And Bill and I, exchanging polite platitudes with the people at our
table, were left very much to ourselves. And the voyage was calm, totally unlike
the one we had taken so many months before. It was on the boat that I read some
of Richard Warren's new poems, part of the new volume. And, sitting in a
sheltered corner of the deck, I watched my husband write the dedication across a
white sheet of paper:

"To my wife." "I'm very proud," said I, a little tremulously. "They are
beautiful. Wright knew. He said they were bigger and finer than the others.
But," I added, "after all, I fell in love with _The Lyric Hour_, Bill." "But
these," said Bill, "are your own." And so they were. "Now," he said, "suppose
you show me what you were so careful to hide from me in Cuba?" "Did Wright--?" I
began indignantly, "What do you mean?" "No, Wright didn't. But I guessed. Have I
written for nothing all these years? I'm a sleuth when it comes to a fellow-
craftsman. Besides, there's this--"

He drew a crumpled sheet from his inner pocket. I snatched at it. "That old
thing!" said I, with scorn. "Where did you find it?" "I couldn't account for
your inky little hands and your fits of abstraction," he answered, "solely by an
explanation of your love for letter-writing and your dislike of me." "Where did
you find it, Creature?" I demanded again. "In Wright's pocket. Old coat, on a
chair--I was looking for a match." "Doesn't sound plausible," said I, spreading
out the blotted paper. Bill read with me, over my shoulder. AFTER SUNSET

Carved in dull ebony, one somber row      Of straight palms, etched in sudden,
sharp relief,      Against a molten-copper afterglow....      Oh, Hour of
Enchantment, past belief,      When down the garden paths the peacocks go,
In plumed splendor and with stately tread. Across the shadowed valleys cool
winds blow,      From where the smoke-blue mountain rears its head. Beyond the
world's rim, slips the ghost-wan Day,      To draw Night's curtain close about
her bed      And set a star to light her to her rest,      While Evening,
shaking free her dusky hair,      Lures every weary bird to seek its nest,
And, kissing shut the tired eyes of care,      Lulls Earth to peace upon her
gentle breast. "I didn't mean you to know," I said, as he took the verse away
from me again and put it back in his pocket. "But you told Wright," said he.
"That was different," I answered, firmly. "Mad?" "N-No!" He slipped his arm
around me. "Mavis," he said very softly, "Mavis with the amber hair and the deep
brown eyes. Mavis, child and poet and--all mine." "You're not laughing?" I asked
anxiously. "I mean, about the verses?" "Laughing?" he raised his head from my
hair. My cap had fallen off, and it blew in wildest confusion about my face and
his. "I'm very far from laughing. I'm proud and happy. But," said he, with a
change of tone, "to steal my thunder! You'll be dabbling in my pill-boxes yet! I
suppose I may as well reconcile myself to being known as 'the husband of Mavis
Denton.' Appalling outlook!" "Is it?" I asked impishly. "Well--in that sense at
least. 'Husband of The Poetess.' It wounds my masculine pride." "It shouldn't,"
said I, triumphantly, "if it ever happened--which, of course, it won't. But I
will be quite content to be known as Richard Warren's wife--"

"You dear! But, of course, you have a better disposition than I have--"

"I haven't! I'm a petulant, snappish, mean--"

"You're the loveliest thing God ever made!" And so on, ad infinitum. The lazy,
happy trip over, we sailed importantly into New York once more. Father and Uncle
John were on the dock, two bronzed, happy men, and it was late that night before
I got to sleep, in that same, old-fashioned room, my head in a perfect whirl.
How we had talked and laughed, questioned and answered! From the twinkle in
Uncle John's eyes, the tenderest, most quizzical twinkle, I half-suspected that
he knew more than I had thought. He didn't say so, but if he didn't know--well,
he had developed perfectly miraculous powers of teasing since I had left. But he
was a dear. And it was so amazing to sit there and listen to him and Bill
discuss the new volume, and to put my little, critical oar in now and then,
while Father sat by, my hand in his, a look of the most wonderful content on his
face. They had great difficulty to persuade me to go to bed. It was fascinating
to linger in the smoky old room, with its rows and rows of books and its untidy,
comfortable, masculine atmosphere. After I had three times refused to leave
them, Bill unceremoniously picked me up and carried me up the stairs, kicking,
and losing my slippers on the way. Did I say that a wire was waiting for me when
I reached Uncle John's? "LOVE TO YOU BOTH," it read. "WILL BE WITH YOU WEDNESDAY
AT THE LATEST," and it was addressed to me, and signed, "MOTHER." Wednesday was
two days off. I spent the intervening time in the outrageous shops, Bill
stalking uneasily behind me, deferred to by the lithe, wonderfully coiffured,
purring Goddesses who paraded mannequin after pretty mannequin before my
startled eyes. I think, however, that Bill was a little more embarrassed than I.
"How they live," he said to me, seriously, on one occasion, "I don't see. I
should think they'd spend most of their time in a pneumonia ward!" We drove in
the Park one afternoon. It was gay with Spring flowers and pretty girls. We had
a hansom, because I had read about them in books. Coming back, through the
falling dusk, with the lights of the city twinkling out, yellow and beckoning,
and the great, massive bulk of the Plaza, illuminated like a birthday cake, just
ahead, I suddenly conceived an affection for New York. But I didn't want to live
there. "Next time we come," said Bill, "in the Fall, perhaps, I want to take you
to the theatres and to the gayest restaurants, and concerts. Why, you funny
child, your eyes are as big as saucers!" Our lean horse stumbled just then, and
the hansom gave a seasick lurch. I felt as people mounting camels must feel.
When the horse and I had somewhat recovered, I answered,

"I'd love it! And you'll teach me to dance--sometime?--May I?" "Well," said Bill
gravely, "I'm not much of a dancer--too big and all that. I always step on the
dear things' feet. But you may, I think, and we'll take lessons together, if you
like--"

"I'd adore it!" I said. My husband drew me close--,

"You baby," he said. "Sometimes I think I have been selfish, tying you down to a
cross old husband before you've had your good times--"

"Don't want any good times without you!" I said, obstinately. "All right," said
he. "We'll have them together. I'll renew my youth!" "Don't be absurd! You're a
mere infant!" "Second childhood," he said, "you've been an elixir of youth to
me; of life itself." "You do say such nice things," I sighed. "That comes of
being a poet!" "Poet be hanged!" said Bill. "It comes of being in love--with--
you--with you--"

That was a very nice drive. After all, the hansom has advantages. One can sit
awfully close, and hold hands under the shiny, wooden apron. Wednesday Mother
came. I called her that right off. She was the dearest thing, with such curly
red hair and eyes the color of Bill's, only a different shape. She was littler
than I even, with hands and feet that were wholly ridiculous. Father was
immediately enchanted with her. The four of us had a long talk, all one soft
Spring day, interrupted by Uncle John, and by getting Peter and Sarah safely off
to Green Hill. And then, while I was resting, she had her talk with her son, and
came to me later, after I had gone to bed. She curled up beside me in a
wonderful blue negligee which made her look like a girl. And we talked--and
talked. "You're the nicest thing that Bill has given me," I said, happily,
before she left, "and Bill's the nicest thing you could give me. You don't
feel," I begged, "that I am taking him away from you--?" "I love you," she
answered, the laughter gone from her eyes, and her face very sweet to see, "for
yourself--for Bill too, but most of all for yourself. I have wanted this since
he first wrote me about you. I have prayed for it every night. You were so
exactly the sort of a girl I wanted my boy to marry--"

"But," I said, "I was just a little, bed-ridden, useless creature then--"

"I knew that Bill would cure you," said Mother. "He always gets what he wants--"

"Doesn't he though?" I interrupted, proudly. "And he wanted you!" "I love him
so," I whispered against the soft lace at her breast. She put her arms very
closely around me. I don't know why I cried. And then, she talked to me. Just as
my own Mother would have done--very gravely and tenderly for a long half-hour.
When she left my room, I lay awake a long time, thinking about her and Bill,
wondering if I could ever be to him all that she had said I would be. I was
happy, a little frightened, and so grateful--so grateful. CHAPTER XXII

The entire household saw us off on our motor trip. Uncle John beaming, Mrs.
Cardigan and the maids waving hands and aprons, Mother smiling at us through a
mist. She was coming to Green Hill as soon as we were settled, and help me with
my first housekeeping. She had demurred at first when I begged her to: had said
that "young people were better off alone." But I, and then Bill, when he found
how much I really wanted her and finally Father had overridden all her
objections. I didn't tell my menfolk that it was delightful to have someone to
whom you could talk "Bill" by the hour, and who never grew tired of listening
and encouraging and interrupting with paeans of praise of her own. "What will
she think of Mercedes?" I asked, as we rolled through the city, out toward the
sunshine and open spaces. "She'll like her," said Bill. "Mother's a judge, and
she adopted Wright long ago." "Those two wild children," I said, tolerantly. The
maddest cablegram had come to us just before we left. I was still convulsed by
it:

Mercedes willing wedding in fall out of my head with happiness    everything
wonderful thank you a thousand times will see you very    soon most marvelous
girl in the world sends her love so do _I_. "WRIGHT"

"I suppose they expect us to be surprised," I said. "Ostriches!" "I always knew
you were a matchmaker," said Bill, "you certainly staged the whole thing well."
"I had her out to amuse you, not Wright," said I, with partial truth. "Oh, you
did, did you? 'The best laid plans'--. Didn't you know that I haven't had eyes
or ears for another woman since that first night you insulted me--"

"'Doctor Jumpy!'" said I, in delighted recollection. "If it weren't that I have
to drive the car--" said Bill. "Perhaps, later, you could stop--" I suggested.
He stopped in the midst of the still considerable traffic. And then we sped on
again, leaving a breathless, open-mouthed policeman struck into stone, behind
us. "Boston," said I to Bill, after we had been there for two hours, "is the
darnedest place!" "What's the matter with it? Cradle of American culture and
everythin'." "Reminds me of Havana," I said. "Havana! You're insane!" Bill laid
his fork down and gazed at me in amazement over the table in the Copley Plaza.
"Because it's so different," I said, "but the streets aren't much wider, so
there. And after all, I think I could fall in love with the Common, and even
Back Bay. There's something very solid about it all." As we left the city and
went on through the lovely Massachusetts country, I became more and more
enamoured of my own unknown New England. And Bill, delightful companion, grew
positively instructive. I learned a little history by the way, and we poked
around and explored, in a very leisurely manner. Wellesley, dignified and
gracious, fascinated me. We went up to the college and spent a happy half-day
there with one of the professors who had been a school friend of Bill's, no, our
Mother's. But I couldn't help thinking of Mercedes! My bright, tropical bird,
caged in a classroom, filing to chapel with hundreds of other girls, part of a
crowd. I determined to go some day to Vassar and see her Waterloo for myself.
Pride's Crossing filled me with envy. I liked the beautifully kept lawns and the
wonderful, garden-encircled houses. But I fell so deeply in love with
Gloucester, even the fish, that Bill despaired of ever getting me away. "Wait
till you see Salem!" he said, "I'll probably have to tuck a door in the back-
seat. You'll want one, I know. Jolliest doors in the world." Magnolia, Salem,
Plymouth, they went by like dreams. The big hotels where we stayed, the water,
the Spring skies, the first reticent flowers, and finally, the funny little Cape
towns: Hyannis Port, with its beaches and docks, its high Sunset Hill, where we
watched the sun go down red and purple over the quiet bay, and where we saw the
white sails of the fishing-crafts lift like wings against the morning sky--it
was all so lovely, so new, so untarnished for me. I even loved the grey fog that
swept in at night, like soft veils. And everywhere, serious or gay, always the
perfect comrade, was Bill. I would lie awake in the mornings listening to him
splash in the shower or whistling to himself in his room, not calling out good
morning to him for five whole minutes, just happy at having him so near. But
Provincetown! We came into it on a wonderful, clear morning, into that sleepy,
little town, girdled with sand, on the edge of the wide, blue bay. Some of the
cottages were open, even as early as it was in the season, and the little
streets were bright with people. Our Inn was close down on the beach, a dark-
red, rambling building, built half a century before, and beautifully remodelled
for modern purposes. There were ships' lanterns and clocks within, a wide,
glassed verandah on which one consumed quantities of delicious food and salt
air, a ship's rope for the banister of the stairway which led, steeply, up to
the second floor. Beyond the landing was my room, with three great windows
fronting the bay. One could almost have flung a stone into the water from them.
The room was in rose-color, like my own room at home, and cool, dull green.
Counter-pane, chair cushions, curtains, and dressing-table rioted with
delightfully impossible roses, and the whole room smelled of salt and sun and
the little lavender and rose-leaf bags I found in bureau-drawers and on closet-
shelves. And my bath was big and white, a tiled, immaculate room, with cross-
stitched towels and washrags, sweet-scented soaps and a dazzling array of
bottles and toothbrush-mugs. "How can I clean my razor on this?" demanded Bill,
appearing in my room with a little towel held at arm's length. He surveyed the
silken baskets of flowers designed upon it, with an air of deep concern. "Oh,
but you mustn't!" I said, snatching it from him in dismay. "Oh, but I must!" he
contradicted. "Look at this beard! We left Chatham so early this morning that I
didn't get a moment to shave." I rubbed my cheek against the square, firm chin.
"Ouch!" "I told you so!" "Come with me," I said, with dignity, and led him into
his own bathroom, where I produced for him certain small towels, hanging under a
legend "For your razor," and left him chuckling. Bill's room was blue and
yellow, and he complained that it was far too pretty for a man. We were still
arguing about it when we went forth to survey the town. I popped in and out of
shops like "an agitated rabbit," according to Bill, and bought armsful of
bayberry candles, little delicate water-colors, and about six old, brass
knockers; the last named purchases moving Bill to say that he supposed we would
have to put one on the garage and another on the hen-coop. The little inn was
deserted save for us, the maids, an amiable and remarkable colored cook, and the
adorable little lady who was our hostess. She had a tenderness for brides and
grooms! Bill recalled her as having said so on the one occasion he had lunched
with her, in Provincetown, in the "dark ages before I met you, Mavis," and I
think she was happy to have us there. At all events, she never said so if she
was not, and we stayed for two, wonderful weeks. It was too early for swimming,
of course, even for Bill's iron constitution, but we spent hours on the yellow
sands, watching the boats, and the sunlight shifting over the water. Once a
battleship steamed in and anchored not far away, and that evening there were
Navy men in the porch-dining-room, quite beautiful in their uniforms, very
splendid to look at, under the soft lights of the ships' lanterns, lingering
over their coffee and cigars. Bill scraped acquaintance with them, of course,
with the consequence that we had tea one afternoon aboard the ship, with the
most cordial and charming hosts in the world. I had not been there half an hour,
palpitant with excitement, before every unmarried officer present had gotten me
aside on one pretext or another and shown me the picture of "the prettiest girl
in the world, Mrs. Denton!" And I will say for the Benedicts too, that their
tiny cabins were filled with pictures of wives and babies. It was a very
pleasant tea-hour, but Bill hurried me home long before I was tired of deck and
guns, mascot--a frisky goat named "Narcissus," and the crowds of amusing sailor-
boys in their infantile garb. "Haven't had you to myself for a dog's age," he
growled. "What did those men mean, carrying you off like that, with their 'Mrs.
Denton, please come with me,' or 'Oh, Mrs. Denton, I've got something to show
you.' Jackasses!" "I thought them very nice," said I demurely, "especially that
tall one with all the gold braid and the fascinating eyes." "Fascinating eyes!
Ye Gods! Never again, young woman!" and he hustled me out of the ship's boat,
across the sand and into the house, lest, as he said, "The eyes-fellow should be
standing with field glasses on the deck waiting to wave to you again!" When we
were in our rooms again, and I had called him to hook me up--we were dressing
for dinner--he came in and, fumbling with those clever surgeon's fingers at the
hooks of my frock, swept me and the frock suddenly and breathlessly into his
arms. "Don't keep me waiting too long, Mavis," he said, very low. I put my arms
around his neck and said something in his ear. And after a moment he kissed me,
very gently, and let me go. It was ten minutes before I realized that he had
gone without completing his task of lady's maid. That night a full moon rose,
golden and glamorous, over the bay. Bill and I walked out on the sands, quite
late. I had on a wooly, white coat over my thin dress, and had changed to more
sensible shoes. After all, I thought, it was worth a dozen Cubas, the keen, salt
air, and the dear home country, just stirring under the breath of Spring.
"Happy?" asked Bill, as we sat down on some driftwood logs and watched the ever-
widening golden wake of the moon-boat. I leaned my head against his shoulder and
nodded. "You've never looked so beautiful," he said, "as tonight." I drew his
tall head down to mine,

"Do you think so?" I whispered, and then, very softly, "I love you, my
husband--"

Together, in the full glory of the moonlight, we walked in silence back to the
house. The lights gleamed above in my rose and green bedroom, and the door was
open between--

CHAPTER XXIII

GREEN HILL      June. Has it seemed long to you, little Diary? Yet it is just a
year since my first entry was made. I'm writing now in my room with the windows
wide. Bill has just called up to me that my pink rose-bush is in flower. I must
go down and see. I can hear Mother on the lawn talking to Mrs. Goodrich and
Father and Peter. Or is it Wiggles? She employs almost the same tone toward both
of them. And Sarah, a good ten years younger than last year, is out where the
new cottage is soon to be. She has the builder with her, and I know that they
are disagreeing. It will be a boon to Sarah to have the Simpson tribe--as much
of it as are carpenters--working on her house for her. A pretty revenge! "A new
Doctor has come to Green Hill!" Just a year ago--Diary--and since then so much
has happened. So much sorrow and happiness, loss and gain. It is hard to believe
that it is I who write, Mavis of Green Hill. The people have been so good since
I came home: so glad for me. They tell me I look a different person--and why
not, pray? For I am strong and well and most divinely happy, Diary, and it is
pleasant to be able to write that down for you--after all the despondencies I
did not spare your pages. There's the new house to build--and this one to
remodel in the Fall--and the garage already under way. It will be ready for
Silas to putter about in by the time he comes North. And in August we are to
expect Mercedes, which means Wright, of course. I have been able to persuade the
Howells that Cuba is all very well, but Mercedes must be married from my house--
and they have consented. I think that Mr. Howells is glad that it will be so.
The reviewers have been kind to Bill's new book. It was rushed through and
appeared early this month. The secret has been let out, of course, and the poor
villagers of Green Hill are mightily embarrassed at having harbored a famous
poet for so long without knowing it. And they get the name quite confused. It's
"Doctor Warren" half the time! My dear old Dr. Mac has been to see us more than
once. We've had wonderful evenings, in the late June dusk, a happy family,
lacking nothing, content with just living and loving--

Mother and Dr. Mac are such friends. She actually flirts with him, in her
Dresden China way, and he growls. But he likes it. I am sure he is half in love
with her already--he couldn't very well help being. Bill's here--his hand on my
shoulder, smelling nicely of damp, new earth! "Go away!" "Why?" "I'm writing!"
"So I see--but what, little wife?" "The end of a story." And under his eyes,
Diary, I have turned back your pages and drawn a thick, black line through that
pitiful entry made on my wedding day--drawn a thicker, blacker line through that
sombre little word "Finis." "Kiss me, William Denton!" And now, with his kiss on
my lips, I have turned back to what I have just written and am writing, letter
by letter, with a steady hand and a high heart, between laughter and tears, two
firm, exultant words:

THE BEGINNING