CHAPTER I

"I never should have brought you here," murmured Cousin Susan Wentworth, as she
looked across the table at young Cousin Rebecca Mary Wyman, who sat on the other
side of the white cloth like a small gray mouse with bright expectant eyes, a
pretty pink flush on her cheeks and her head with its crown of soft yellow brown
hair held high. "I should have saved my money for new kitchen curtains. The
curtains in my kitchen are a disgrace to any housekeeper. But life wouldn't be
worth much if we didn't occasionally do something we shouldn't, would it?" And
she smiled at pink-cheeked Rebecca Mary. "The memory of this pretty room with
the gay crowds of people, the music, the good things to eat will last longer
than any curtains. And I can cut down the old bedroom curtains for the kitchen.
Rebecca Mary, did you ever think that is what life really is, cutting down our
desires to fit our necessities?" Rebecca Mary sniffed. She had known that for
twenty-two years. She did not have to be thirty-nine like Cousin Susan to learn
that necessities always crowd out desires. And anyway she did not wish to talk
of necessities, they were stupid and uninteresting, when for once in her life
she was a part of what no one in the wide world could ever consider a necessity.
She let Cousin Susan study the card the attentive waiter handed to her, and
while Cousin Susan tried to keep her mind from prices and on names, Rebecca
Mary's bright eyes roved over the big brilliant room. She had never expected to
enter it. She had scarcely believed her two pink ears when they told her that
Cousin Susan had said, quite casually, "Rebecca Mary, suppose we go to the Waloo
for tea?" Rebecca Mary had given a startled gasp, but here she was at the Waloo
trying to forget that her old blue serge suit was wide where it should be narrow
and narrow where it should be wide, and that her hat had only been given a good
brushing to make it ready for another season. Afternoon tea was served at the
Waloo in the Viking room, a beautiful place with its scenes from the old Norse
sagas on the walls above a wainscoting of dark wood and with lights like old
ship lanterns hanging from the beamed ceiling. The chairs and tables were
suggestive of long ago days, also, but the linen, the silver, the dainty china,
the music and the guests were very much of to-day. Rebecca Mary watched the
young people almost enviously as Cousin Susan hesitated over _foie gras_
sandwiches, which were expensive and therefore suitable for an occasion which
was to cost her kitchen its new curtains, and lettuce sandwiches which were
cheap and which she made herself every time the Mifflin Fortnightly Club met
with her. Rebecca Mary could easily imagine what joy it would be to come to the
Viking room in smart new clothes and with a young man like--like that tall young
fellow who was with the girl in the wistaria taffeta. It made the pink in
Rebecca Mary's cheeks turn to rose just to think of what joy that would be.
There were any number of girls in the Viking room with whom Rebecca Mary would
have changed places in the twinkling of an eye. It hurt almost as much as an
ulcerated tooth to watch those radiant young people. And when you have an
ulcerated tooth you don't, unless you are strong-minded or philosophical or
stoical, laugh and chatter gayly; you know you don't. Rebecca Mary wasn't
strong-minded nor philosophical nor stoical, she was just a girl who had never
had anything and, oh, how she did want something, and she wanted it right away.
That was why her eyebrows frowned yellow-brownly, and the corners of her mouth
drooped a bit. "Oh, Cousin Susan!" she groaned, "why did we ever come here? Why
didn't you take me to Childs'?" "Eh?" murmured Cousin Susan, still hovering
between expense and curiosity. But before she could say another word a little
girl ran up to them, an elflike little thing, who held a huge bunch of violets
in her hand. She had been following a man from the room when she had seen
Rebecca Mary and dashed around the tables, just missing a disastrous collision
with a fat waiter, to arrive breathless beside her. "Oh, Miss Wyman!" she
whispered, her small face aglow with importance. "I'm so glad I saw you. This is
my birthday, and my daddy brought me here for tea just as if I were all grown
up. He bought me these violets, too, and I've had them all afternoon so I'd like
to give them to you now because," her face grew crimson, and her voice rang out
above the hum of voices, "I love you!" She thrust the violets into Rebecca
Mary's hand and ran away without giving Rebecca Mary a chance to say one word.
Rebecca Mary just saw a portion of her father's back as he disappeared through
the door, and she looked down at the violets with an odd flash in her gray eyes.
No one ever had given her violets before. She had always picked them herself on
the sunny slope of the bluff at Mifflin. "What a dear child," smiled Cousin
Susan. "Who is she?" "One of my pupils, Joan Befort. Yes, she is a dear."
Rebecca Mary buried her hot cheeks in the cool fragrance of the violets for a
moment. When she lifted her head she met the amused glance of an elderly woman
at the next table. She must be a grandmother woman, Rebecca Mary thought
swiftly, although she did not look like any grandmother Rebecca Mary knew with
her smart and expensive hat and blue gown, on the front of which was pinned a
bunch of violets and an orchid encircled with foliage. The smile which lurked
around the lips of this most ungrandmotherly looking grandmother made Rebecca
Mary remember little Joan Befort's fervent declaration of affection, and she
smiled, too. How funny it must have sounded in the crowded tea room. "I love
you!" Rebecca Mary giggled, she couldn't help it, even if she was most
dreadfully embarrassed. At the table beside the ungrandmotherly looking
grandmother was a young man the very sight of whom sent Rebecca Mary into a
quiver of delight. She had seen his picture in the Gazette too many times not to
recognize him. He was young Peter Simmons, who had left college in his sophomore
year to drive an ambulance in France during the second year of the great war. He
had been awarded a _croix de guerre_ for "unusual bravery under fire," and later
had gone into the French flying service until he could fight under his own flag.
He had been with the American Army of Occupation in Germany and had only
recently returned to Waloo. No wonder Rebecca Mary thrilled all down her back
bone as she realized that she was looking at a hero. She stared and stared for
she might never see one again, and the hero raised his eyes and saw awed
admiration written in huge letters all over her flushed face. Evidently young
Peter Simmons did not care for awed admiration, perhaps he had had too much of
it, perhaps it made him unpleasantly self-conscious, for he scowled blackly and
murmured an impatient something to the grandmother which made her look at
Rebecca Mary again. Rebecca Mary turned a deep crimson and was horribly
uncomfortable. She knew very well what they were saying, that such a shabby girl
had no business among the fine birds in the Viking room, and she scowled, too.
She could give scowl for scowl as well as any one. Peter's black frown made you
laugh, but there was something rather pathetic about Rebecca Mary's bent yellow-
brown brows, perhaps it was because her lower lip quivered as she hastily
averted her shamed eyes. On the other side of young Peter was a girl no older
than Rebecca Mary, and she was so prettily and smartly clothed that she made
Rebecca Mary feel like Cousin Susan's kitchen curtains, old and ragged. But
every one in the room made her feel like that, she thought miserably, and she
tossed her head higher to show how little she cared as her glance roamed on to
the man on the other side of the grandmother. Of course the grandmother must be
old Mrs. Peter Simmons, and old Mrs. Peter Simmons was one of the most important
women in Waloo, so important that a poor little school teacher like Rebecca Mary
could never hope to know her. Rebecca Mary rather liked the face of the man on
the other side of Mrs. Peter Simmons. He was older than young Peter, and the
most doting friend could not have called him handsome, but he had something much
better than perfect features. He was the type of man who would do things, she
decided, and then she saw Mrs. Simmons turn to speak to him and with a little
shrinking feeling of horror Rebecca Mary knew that they were talking of her, for
the man who could do things raised his head and looked directly at her. For a
moment their eyes met. Rebecca Mary was furious to feel her cheeks burn and her
heart thump. She scowled before she turned her head quickly. She wouldn't look
at that table again. I should say not! There were other tables and other family
parties, and, oh, dear! other couples. Old Samuel Johnson knew exactly what he
was talking about when he said that "envy is almost the only vice which is
practicable at all times and in every place." Rebecca Mary did find it so very
very easy to be envious. About the only person she did not envy that afternoon
was a short, stout, middle-aged man with a red face, who sat at a table by
himself and consumed vast quantities of hot buttered toast. Rebecca Mary had
never imagined there were so many gay, light-hearted people in the world as
there were in the Viking room that May afternoon and more would have entered if
it had not been for the silken barrier which was held in front of the door by
two very haughty waiters. Rebecca Mary felt blue and depressed to the very toes
of her common-sense little shoes. She felt so hopelessly out of the gay and
brilliant picture. She almost wished that Cousin Susan had not asked her to the
Waloo for tea. "Which shall we have, Rebecca Mary?" Cousin Susan found herself
quite incapable of making such a momentous decision without assistance. "Lettuce
or _foie gras_." Rebecca Mary did not hesitate a second. She knew. "_Foie
gras_," she said promptly. "I've never tasted them, and I've made hundreds of
lettuce sandwiches, just thousands of them. What is the use of going to new
places if you don't try new things?" There was just a trace of impatience in her
low voice as if she thought that Cousin Susan should have known that without
being told. "H-m," murmured Cousin Susan. "The _foie gras_, then. They certainly
sound mysterious and adventurous." And having given her order, Cousin Susan
looked about her. "Isn't this an attractive place? I've read in the Gazette
about the afternoon teas in the Viking room and how popular they were. I suppose
all these people are very rich and important. None of them will pay for tea with
kitchen curtains." And Cousin Susan's eyes twinkled. Rebecca Mary's eyes
twinkled, too, although really there was nothing very amusing to her in paying
for tea with ten yards of any kind of material. It was rather sordid to her and
poor and generally horrid, like her very existence. Cousin Susan looked at her
frowning little face and fingered the silver in front of her with hands which
although well cared for showed that they were more for use than ornament. Cousin
Susan's hands exactly illustrated Cousin Susan's heart, which was so big and
generous and helpful that the hands were often overworked. As she looked at
Rebecca Mary Cousin Susan took a sudden determination and followed an impulse,
which was nothing new for her, and which sometimes brought her great
satisfaction and sometimes nothing but dissatisfaction. "Don't frown like that,
Rebecca Mary," she commanded like a general speaking to a very small private.
"It is a lot easier to put a wrinkle in your forehead than it is to get one out
as you'll learn some day. And while we are on the subject of your looks I'm
going to take an old cousin's privilege and tell you what I think of you. It's a
shame to do it here," she acknowledged ruefully, "but if I take the six-twenty
train I shan't have another chance. You know," she went on in a firm low voice,
"I don't like the way you live, and your mother wouldn't like it if she knew.
Why, you don't get a thing out of your life, Rebecca Mary, not a thing!" "I
don't see what I can do," murmured Rebecca Mary with a twist of her shoulders
and a rebellious flash in her gray eyes. "You needn't think I like my life,
Cousin Susan. It isn't one I should ever choose. I should say not! But I try to
make the best of it." "But you don't make the best of it. That is just the
point. You make such a horrid worst of it. Yes, you do!" as Rebecca Mary
indignantly declared that she didn't. "Listen. I've watched you and I never
imagined a girl could detach herself from life, real life, as you have done. You
haven't any friends, you don't go anywhere but to school, you don't do anything
but teach the third grade in the Lincoln school." At that Rebecca Mary did
interrupt and there was a bright red spot on each of her cheeks, like a poppy in
a bed of lilies. "It costs money to have a share in real life," she said in a
suppressed voice which made you think how very thin the crust of earth around a
volcano must be. "And I haven't any money. You know how awfully little we have
and how much it costs to live now. I have to send something home every month and
there are always taxes and insurance. And I have to provide for my old age! You
have no idea what a nightmare that is," tragically. "I wake up in the night
thinking what will happen when I'm too old to teach. It's--it's ghastly!" It was
so ghastly that she shivered, and the poppies left her face so that it was just
a field of white lilies. "You are thinking entirely too much of your old age.
You are robbing your youth for it. It is perfectly ridiculous for you to make
such a nightmare of the future. I know it isn't entirely your fault. Your mother
is rabid on the subject. She has brought you and Grace up to think of old age as
a blood-thirsty old beast who has to be fed with youth. Yes, I know all about
your Aunt Agnes and your second Cousin Lucy. But, my dear, they could have saved
and saved and their money might have been lost just when they needed it. You
can't be sure of keeping money no matter how you save it. That's why I spend
mine." She looked at the dainty expensive sandwiches the waiter placed before
her and laughed. "It's gospel truth, my dear," she went on soberly, "that the
only thing you can be sure of taking into the future is what you can remember,
the memory of the good times you have had, the people you have met, the places
you have seen, the books you have read, the music you have heard. Don't you know
that youth should enjoy things for old age to remember? And take it from me,
Rebecca Mary, that the old find their greatest pleasure in recalling their
youth. Will you have cream or lemon in your tea? Lemon always seems more like a
party to me." Rebecca Mary took the lemon while a puzzled frown appeared between
her two eyebrows. "It isn't that I don't like my work, Cousin Susan," she said
slowly, "for I do. I love children, and I love to teach. If I had a million I
should want to teach somewhere, in a settlement or a mission, you know. But I'll
admit that the future does scare me blue. Suppose I should be ill, suppose----"

"Suppose fiddlesticks!" Cousin Susan broke in impatiently. "It's all very well
for you to talk. You have some one to take care of you, a husband, and----"

"My dear, you can't guarantee a husband any more than you can a savings account.
Women are left penniless widows every day. Don't misunderstand me, Rebecca Mary.
I believe in a certain amount of saving, but I don't believe in sacrificing
everything in the present to a future you may never have. How do you know you
will live to grow old? How do you know that a grateful pupil won't leave you an
income?--that has happened if you can believe the newspapers. How do you know
that you won't make your own fortune in some marvelous way? That's the loveliest
part of life, Rebecca Mary. You don't know what is waiting for you around the
corner so you might as well expect riches as poverty; better in my opinion. I'd
always rather look forward to a fried chicken than a soup bone hashed." Rebecca
Mary had to giggle when Cousin Susan suggested that a grateful pupil might leave
her an income. That was even more improbable than that she would make a fortune
for herself. "Cousin Susan," she giggled scornfully, "You are a perfect silly!"
"That may be," admitted Cousin Susan, "but I'm telling you good solid sense. A
proper amount of pleasure is as necessary to the real development of human
beings as bread or boots. Every one admits that now. And you're not getting a
proper amount, my dear. You aren't getting any! Why, you aren't living, you only
breathe, and life is more than breathing. You are naturally impulsive. Can't you
let yourself enjoy life instead of fear it? Yes, you are afraid of it. I've
watched you. And from what you say I imagine that your room-mate was just
another like you. I'm glad she has gone home. And your clothes are a scandal.
How many years have you worn that suit?" Rebecca Mary's face turned a bright
crimson to match the red-hot indignation inside of her. How dared Cousin Susan
talk to her like that? She was doing the best she could. She shouldn't tell
Cousin Susan how old her blue serge was. It was none of Cousin Susan's business.
"You wouldn't feel so shut out of the world if you looked like other people and
went where other people go. I don't suppose you speak an unprofessional word all
day," went on Cousin Susan with growing indignation at what she considered the
waste of a perfectly good girl. "It's a crime, Rebecca Mary Wyman! A crime! And
you needn't boast about your old age provision when you haven't the brains to
make a sensible one. I'm as poor as a church mouse myself. Your Cousin Howard
will never make more than a decent living, and we have two children to feed and
clothe and educate. I hadn't any more business to come here for tea than I would
have to go to the Zoo and buy a baboon for a parlor ornament. But if I don't do
something occasionally to make a day stand out, something that it is a pleasure
to remember, I never should be able to keep on patching Elsie's petticoats, and
darning Kittie's stockings. I know,--I know!--Rebecca Mary, that when you are
young you live in the future, and when you are old you live in the past. Some
one has said that memories are the only real fountain of youth. And that's true.
A girl is young such a short time that she has to cram the days full if she
wants to be sure of a happy old age. I can't imagine anything more awful than to
have no good times to remember. And all pleasures aren't like the tea here. Such
a lot of them can be had for nothing. You can get such fun just out of
companionship, and the world is full of people with whom we were meant to be
friends. Why, life now means helping other people to have a good time instead of
moping off by yourself. You should know that, Rebecca Mary. I know I sound like
a sermon, but it is all so true. You must not turn your back to people and hide
in a corner. You must face the world and take what you can and give what you
can. I wish you would promise me something?" she asked eagerly. Rebecca Mary
didn't look as if she would promise any one anything, but she asked politely:
"What would you like me to promise, Cousin Susan?" "Just to say 'Yes, thank you'
instead of 'No, I can't possibly,' when you are asked to do something or go
somewhere," begged Cousin Susan, refusing to be discouraged by the scornful toss
of Rebecca Mary's head. "Please, Rebecca Mary! You talk so much about insurance
and that sort of thing that I'm going to ask you to take out some,"--she
hesitated and then laughed,--"memory insurance. We can't all hope to be money
rich when we are old, but we can all plan to be memory rich. Please promise?"
Rebecca Mary put her violets on the table and stared at her. "Your tea is
getting cold, Cousin Susan," she said stiffly. She shouldn't promise anything so
foolish. Cousin Susan was the most irresponsible old silly, but Rebecca Mary
couldn't be irresponsible. There was too much dependent upon her. She drank her
own tea and ate her sandwiches and even had a bit of French pastry when Cousin
Susan said she was going to try some even if it did mean going without the new
magazine she had planned to buy to read on the way home. "I can make the evening
paper last longer," she said as she hesitated between a strawberry tart and a
cream-filled cornet. "I've read about French pastry for years, but we don't have
it in Mifflin, and I never had a chance to taste it before. Isn't it good?"
Rebecca Mary said it was good, but inwardly she sniffed again and tried to think
that it was ridiculous for a woman of Cousin Susan's age to become hysterical
over a piece of pie. She could not understand Cousin Susan's enjoyment of little
things. She never would have dared to spend her kitchen curtains and new
magazine for tea and French pastry. It would have been too foolishly
extravagant. But she had enjoyed her tea. And it was exhilarating to be a part,
even a shabby part, of a world she had never penetrated before and never would
again, she thought mournfully. That was the trouble with pleasant experiences,
they came all too seldom and were over far too soon. But Cousin Susan had said
when you had had a pleasant experience once you had it for ever. Perhaps there
was something in that thought. Rebecca Mary evidently thought there was for her
eyes were like stars as, with the violets pinned to her shabby coat, she
followed Cousin Susan from the room. She found herself in a crush at the door.
Beside her was young Peter Simmons. Rebecca Mary thrilled as he brushed against
her arm. "Beg your pardon," he murmured absently, but he never looked at her. It
made Rebecca Mary so furious to be so coolly ignored that she did not see that
Joan Befort and her father pushed by her and that close on their heels were Mrs.
Simmons and the man who looked as if he would do things. The chattering laughing
throng pressed closer. A hand even touched Rebecca Mary's fingers. She drew them
away with a shrug of her shoulders. She did hate to be jostled. "My dear, I must
fly!" exclaimed Cousin Susan when they had emerged a trifle breathless from the
crowd. "But first give me that promise? Please, Rebecca Mary! What is that in
your hand?" she broke off to ask suddenly, for something green hung from Rebecca
Mary's worn brown glove. "Why--why----" stammered Rebecca Mary as she opened her
hand and found, of all things, a four-leaf clover. She stared from it to Cousin
Susan. "Where did you get that?" Like Rebecca Mary, Cousin Susan scanned the
faces hurrying by. Not one of them looked as if it belonged to a person who
would thrust a four-leaf clover into the fingers of a girl in a shabby blue
serge. Four-leaf clovers had been no part of the table decorations. They never
are. They belong in meadows and are only found by patient seekers. Even Rebecca
Mary had to admit that it was odd and that it gave her a strange shivery sort of
a feeling. "My, but I'm glad I didn't buy curtains!" Cousin Susan was enchanted
with the mystery. "You simply will have to give me that promise now, Rebecca
Mary. You are sure to have adventures if you do. There's the sign." She pointed
to the crumpled clover leaf. "There's magic in it!" she whispered. Really,
Cousin Susan was a silly. "I wonder!" Rebecca Mary looked at the talisman. Where
could it have come from? Perhaps there was magic in it. There must have been,
for suddenly Rebecca Mary laughed softly. She straightened her shoulders and
looked into Cousin Susan's kind blue eyes. "Yes, Cousin Susan," she said
swiftly, as if the spell of the clover leaf might be broken if she didn't speak
in a hurry, "I promise to say 'Yes, thank you' instead of 'No, I can't
possibly.'" And then before Cousin Susan could say how glad she was, right there
on the crowded avenue, Rebecca Mary put her arm around Cousin Susan and hugged
her. "I haven't been a bit nice this afternoon," she confessed frankly and with
considerable regret. "I've been horrid, but it was because I did feel so out of
place. But I do love you and--and I shall try and be more decent to people. And
if you really want me to take one of your old memory insurance policies," she
giggled as she thought of Cousin Susan as an insurance agent, "why, of course I
shall. Perhaps--" she looked down at the mysterious clover leaf, and her eyes
crinkled--"perhaps this might make a first payment." CHAPTER II

Rebecca Mary walked home on air. If she didn't hippity-hop outside, she did
inside. She held her head high, and her gray eyes were almost black with
excitement. A delightful mystery tingled through her. Usually when Rebecca Mary
walked home from down town she had to wonder whether she might have bought her
gloves cheaper if she had gone to the Big Store or if the shoes at Ballok's were
better for the money. But as she walked swiftly home from the Waloo that May
afternoon she never once remembered what might have been saved. She had
pleasanter things than saving to think of. I doubt very much if Rebecca Mary
would have kept her promise to Cousin Susan if it had not been for that
mysterious four-leaf clover. Not that Rebecca Mary was the sort of girl to
regard a promise as a new laid egg, easily broken, for she wasn't. When Rebecca
Mary made a promise it was generally as solid and unbreakable as a block of
concrete. But she did think that Cousin Susan was such a sentimental old silly,
and anyway her old age could never be Cousin Susan's old age and consequently it
didn't really matter a copper cent to Cousin Susan how poor and dependent
Rebecca Mary was when she was fifty. Rebecca Mary shuddered at the mere thought
of being fifty. Looking back, she saw a long stretch of yesterdays, an awful
gray and uninteresting distance, and if she didn't wish to have it fifty years
long, fifty times three hundred and sixty-five stupid gray days, why, really it
was time to do something, as Cousin Susan had said, to introduce another color.
The four-leaf clover presented quite a touch of another color, and the bright
green was as puzzling as it was brightening for it never hinted in any curve or
crumple where it came from. But some one must have deliberately thrust it into
her hand. It never could have reached her fingers by any kind of an accident.
And who was the thruster? How Rebecca Mary would like to have that question
answered in the way she imagined it might be answered! She wanted to be told in
short convincing words that young Peter Simmons had given her the talisman, but
Common Sense jumped to her shoulder and whispered in her ear that that was not
only ridiculous, it was impossible. Impossible may be, as Mirabeau insisted, a
stupid word, and yet it is a word which quite frequently stands like a stone
wall in front of people. Rebecca Mary did not need Common Sense to tell her that
young aviator heroes do not carry four-leaf clovers carelessly in their pockets.
But then who does in a town like Waloo where patches of four-leaf clovers are as
scarce as paving stones are plenty? It was curious and irritating and altogether
amazingly delightful. Rebecca Mary scarcely thought of the third grade of the
Lincoln school that evening, and she most certainly did not dream of the third
grade of the Lincoln school that night. You can easily imagine how disappointed
Rebecca Mary was when she received the first invitation to which she was to say
"Yes, thank you," instead of the "I can't possibly" which had always slipped so
automatically over her lips. By all the rules of romance she had every right to
expect that it would be to some gathering which would bring her at least in
sight of young Peter Simmons, and so when Olga Klavachek begged her to come and
see their new baby she did have to make an effort to keep the old negative
phrase from popping out of her mouth, for what on earth would she get for her
old age meditation, what memory insurance, Cousin Susan had called it, at
Klavachek's? But she had promised Cousin Susan so she let Olga take her hand and
went to see the new baby. Mrs. Klavachek was as round-faced and as plump as
Olga, and although she spoke no English, and Rebecca Mary spoke no Slavic, they
managed to understand each other very well. A baby is a baby and even a baby
tied in a big feather pillow cannot be mistaken for a new hat or a new arm
chair. The Klavachek baby was as round as a butter ball and had eyes like bright
brown beads. Rebecca Mary could honestly admire him, and Mrs. Klavachek beamed
on "Olga's teacher lady." Besides the new baby Olga showed Rebecca Mary her
mother's new shoes and her father's new boots and the wonderful earrings her
mother had brought from Serbia and the new broom she had bought up on Poplar
Avenue and the flag her papa had got off the place where he worked, the Peter
Simmons Factory, and the calendar which the butcher had given her and the
picture of George Washington which she had begged from the grocer because George
Washington was her father now that she was an American and George Washington was
the father of America. At last Olga had nothing more to show, and while she
tried to think of some other way to entertain and surprise "teacher" Rebecca
Mary told Mrs. Klavachek again what a dear roly-poly baby she had, and Mrs.
Klavachek caught Rebecca Mary's hand and said in her best Slavic that she would
never forget her from-heavenly-goodness to Olga, and she kissed Rebecca Mary's
fingers with warm grateful lips. No one had ever kissed Rebecca Mary's hand
before, and the caress gave her an odd sensation quite as if she were a feudal
lady with castles and steel uniformed retainers. She straightened her shoulders
and lifted her chin and looked like a feudal lady as she said good-by to the
Klavacheks and went up the street, a smile on her lips, a laugh in her eyes. She
never would forget how funny the Klavachek baby had looked tied up in the big
feather pillow. She turned down Poplar Avenue where the broom had lived before
it moved to the Klavachek kitchen and waited for her street car, thanking
goodness that she was not Mrs. Klavachek. She would rather be a shabby worked-
to-death teacher with a threatening old age which shows that she had already
benefited from social intercourse. It so often makes one more satisfied with
one's own lot to take a look at the lot of some one else. Rebecca Mary was still
thanking goodness when a limousine drew up beside her. She stepped back as if
she thought it intended to run right over her. "I beg your pardon," called a
soft voice through the open window. "But can you tell me where River Street is?"
The owner of the soft voice must have thought that Rebecca Mary was a settlement
worker or an Associated Charities visitor and so would know where any street
was. "I am looking for a family by the name of Klavachek." "Why, I've just come
from Klavacheks'!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary. She could scarcely believe that it
was the ungrandmotherly grandmother of the Waloo tea room who was leaning
forward to speak to her. Involuntarily she looked for young Peter Simmons, but
unless he had been transformed into a card board box he was not in that
limousine. "Then you can tell me exactly how to find them. I understand there is
a new baby, and I am taking Mrs. Klavachek a few things. Mr. Klavachek works for
my husband at the Peter Simmons Factory," she explained as if she could read the
question which darted into Rebecca Mary's mind. "I am interested in all the new
babies that come to our men." Rebecca Mary looked at the few things. They filled
the seat, and Mrs. Simmons had the grace to blush. "I hope you are not a
settlement worker who will scold me for indiscriminate giving? Perhaps it is
dreadful, but it is good for me, and really I don't believe that it could be bad
for Mrs. Klavachek. It can't be bad for a woman in a strange country to know
that another woman is interested in her, can it?" "Indeed, it can't!" exclaimed
Rebecca Mary, as if she knew anything about it. "It would be splendid for any
woman to think that you were interested in her!" she added impulsively as she
looked into the sweet old face of Mrs. Peter Simmons. And she explained that if
the limousine would turn the corner and go two blocks and stop at the little
purple house it would surely find Mrs. Klavachek and her new baby. "The new baby
is a love!" Rebecca Mary's eyes crinkled as she told how dear the new baby had
looked tied in a big feather pillow. "Thank you so much." Mrs. Simmons seemed
very grateful for the careful direction. "Didn't I see you at the Waloo the
other afternoon?" she asked suddenly. "Didn't you love that new fox trot?" She
smiled as she drove away before Rebecca Mary could say whether she did or didn't
love the new fox trot. Rebecca Mary had time to gaze after her before a long
yellow street car came and picked her up, and she thought again how very
ungrandmotherly Mrs. Peter Simmons was with her twinkling face and her love of
new fox trots. The grandmothers Rebecca Mary knew were staid, sedate women with
aprons and knitting. The second invitation to which Rebecca Mary had an
opportunity to say "Yes, thank you" came the very next evening when one of the
teachers in the Lincoln school offered her a ticket to a travel talk in an
auditorium not three blocks from Rebecca Mary's "one room, kitchenette and
bath." There must have been seven or eight hundred people there so that Rebecca
Mary might be excused for looking for--old Mrs. Simmons, she told herself. But
Mrs. Simmons was not there so far as Rebecca Mary could see, neither was her
grandson. They were not at the school social, which was Rebecca Mary's next
festal affair, nor at the concert to which she went with a woman who lived in
the next apartment, and who was scared to death to go out after dark alone.
Rebecca Mary began to lose faith in the crumpled clover leaf which she had put
in an old locket and carried in her pocket, and no wonder. A talisman which was
worth its salt should have brought better luck. It was not as easy for Rebecca
Mary to change the point of view which she had carefully cultivated for so many
years as it would have been for her to change a blouse. There were many times
when it seemed as if she just couldn't say "Yes, thank you." It would have been
so much easier if she could have wrapped her old point of view in brown paper
and carried it to a clerk at Bullok's or the Big Store and explained that it
didn't fit at all, that it was far too narrow and too tight, and she should like
to exchange it for one that was much larger and broader and which had some
mystery in its frills. It seemed such bad management on the part of some one
that there wasn't an exchange department for points of view at one of the big
stores. But as there wasn't she did her best, and she had to see that the second
time was easier than the first and the third time was easier than the second.
"If I live to be a hundred," she told herself a little impatiently one day, "I
shall probably say 'Yes, thank you' mechanically. But by that time I won't care
what I say, and no one else will care. Oh, dear, I almost wish Cousin Susan
hadn't taken me to the Waloo for tea that day and stirred me all up. What's the
use of thinking about things I can't ever have?" And then because Cousin Susan
had stirred her all up she threw out her little chin and clicked her white teeth
together and murmured that she would have the things she thought about, yes, she
would! She wouldn't be all stirred up for nothing. She just would have some good
times to remember when she was an old woman and had nothing to do but remember
the past. In her eagerness to find the good times she forgot to frown and to
scowl. Even the walk to school became interesting when she thought that romance
might lurk around the corner, and as Rebecca Mary bravely struggled to forget
her cares and see only her opportunities she began to look more like a real live
girl, a girl who might have adventures. The sullen frown left her face, indeed,
a little smile often tilted the corners of her lips as she let her imagination
run riot. There was a new spring in her step because there was a new hope in her
heart. Perhaps the four-leaf clover would bring something into her life besides
taxes and insurance premiums. At the Lincoln school where Rebecca Mary taught
the third grade the principal believed firmly in a close relation between the
home and the school, and to bring about this closer relation each teacher was
expected to visit the family of each pupil at least once a term. Rebecca Mary
was appalled when she discovered that it was the next to the last week of the
term and she remembered how many calls she owed. While she was making out a list
to be paid that very afternoon the principal came in to tell her that an urgent
telephone message had just asked Joan Befort's teacher to come to Beforts' as
soon as she possibly could. "I said you would be down at once," went on Miss
Weir. "Was Joan at school to-day?" No, Rebecca Mary remembered that Joan hadn't
been at school either that morning or that afternoon. "Probably measles or
mumps," prophesied Miss Weir, who had been made wise by years of experience.
"Foreigners are so helpless at times. You will have to explain that the
quarantine laws must be obeyed. What do you know about the Beforts?" Rebecca
Mary blushed, for when Miss Weir asked her she discovered that she knew very
very little about the Beforts. "Joan's mother is dead, and she and her father
live with an old woman who keeps house for them." Rebecca Mary tried her best to
make a complete garment out of her very small pattern. "Joan is devoted to her
father. He took her to the Waloo for tea the other afternoon. It was Joan's
birthday, and she gave me the violets her father had given her." Rebecca Mary's
chin tilted a bit as she told her principal that she, too, had been at the
popular Waloo for tea. "Joan is an odd child, different from the others. It
isn't only that she is a foreigner, you know she has only been in this country a
short time, and she has picked up a very American way of expressing herself, but
underneath--underneath--" she floundered helplessly. "Yes?" Miss Weir waited for
her to explain that "underneath," and when Rebecca Mary just stammered on she
said gently, but, oh, so firmly: "That is why I ask you to visit the homes, so
that you can understand the 'underneath.'" "Yes," murmured Rebecca Mary meekly,
but when Miss Weir had gone with Disapproval shouting, "Fie, fie, Rebecca Mary
Wyman," from her unbending back Rebecca Mary was anything but meek. She stamped
her foot and threw a book on the floor and murmured rebelliously that the days
would have to be three times as long as they were if she were to get
"underneath" the forty children in her room. She found the house, a modest frame
cottage, in a block which held only one other house. Joan was sitting on the
steps, and she looked very small and very forlorn until she saw Rebecca Mary.
She jumped to her feet and stood waiting, her arms full of what Rebecca Mary
naturally thought were playthings. She wore her hat and had a suit case on the
steps beside her. "Oh dear Miss Wyman!" she called joyously. "I thought you'd
never come. Mrs. Lee, over there," she nodded toward the next house, "said you
couldn't be here a minute before half-past three." She looked at the small
silver clock which was one of the things she held and shook it for the clock
said plainly that in its opinion it was a quarter to four. "This must be an
ignorant clock," she decided with a frown, "for I know you wouldn't wait a
minute when you knew I wanted you. It doesn't matter now, and I'm to tell you
that I'm to be your little girl!" She was quite enchanted by the prospect, and
she expected Rebecca Mary to be enchanted, too. "My goodness gracious!" And
Rebecca Mary frowned. Old habits are hard to break. "What do you mean, Joan?"
Joan was only too ready to explain. "You see my father has gone away for a long
long time, we don't know how long, and Mrs. Muldoon, who keeps our house for us,
has gone, too. She said I was to stay with you until she came back because at
Mrs. Lee's they have scarlet fever upstairs and the mumps downstairs." Rebecca
Mary could see for herself that Mrs. Lee had scarlet fever. A card on the house
was actually red in the face with its efforts to tell her that Mrs. Lee had
scarlet fever. "Mrs. Muldoon said she guessed my teacher was an all right person
to leave me with, and so she's loaned me to you. Yes, she has!" as Rebecca Mary
seemed unable to believe it. "I'm loaned to you until my father or Mrs. Muldoon
comes home again. Aren't you glad?" Her lip quivered for Rebecca Mary looked
anything but glad. Rebecca Mary couldn't say she was glad, either. She seemed to
have lost her tongue for she just stood there and looked down at black-haired,
black-eyed Joan and wondered what in the world she would do if Joan's absurd
story was true. "Are you Joan's teacher?" called Mrs. Lee from next door. "Mrs.
Muldoon was sure that you would look after Joan while she was away. Her son in
Kansas City is sick. She went as soon as she got the telegram, and she said she
didn't know a living soul who would look after Joan until she thought of you.
I'd be glad to take her in here if the health officer would let me. If you can't
look after her I suppose the Associated Charities could find some one," she
suggested. "Oh, no!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary. Joan did not seem at all like an
Associated Charities case. Bewildered as Rebecca Mary was she could see that.
"That's what I thought, and Mrs. Muldoon thought so, too. Mr. Befort is away on
business she said. They're nice people, used to much better days, I'd say. You
won't have a mite of trouble with Joan." "Not a mite!" promised Joan, winking
fast to keep the tears in her black eyes. It wasn't pleasant to be loaned to a
teacher who didn't want to borrow. "I'll be so good you'll never know I'm
there!" "Shan't I?" Rebecca Mary visualized the tiny apartment she had shared
with a fellow teacher until Miss Stimson had been called home by the illness of
her mother. At first Rebecca Mary had liked to be alone, but even before Cousin
Susan talked to her as only a relative can talk to one, she had wished for a
companion, not an eight-year-old companion she thought quickly as she looked at
Joan. Goodness knows, she had enough of children during school hours. But what
could she do? Plainly Mrs. Lee and Joan expected her to take Joan home and keep
her indefinitely. It was absurd. But if she didn't take her there was only the
Associated Charities. A little hand clutched her arm. "You aren't h-happy
because I-I'm loaned to you," faltered a trembling little voice. Rebecca Mary
was almost unkind enough to say she wasn't and to ask how she could be, but the
sob in Joan's voice made her ashamed of herself and her frown. She dropped down
on the top step and put her arms around Joan and her clock and a framed picture
and a potato masher which she discovered made the odd collection in Joan's arms.
The potato masher hit her nose and she frowned again. Joan leaned against her
with a tired sigh. "It's--it's very hard when no one wants you," she hiccoughed.
Rebecca Mary knew just how hard it was, but she didn't say so. Her back was
toward the street so that she did not see a limousine coming toward them. It
stopped in front of the cottage, and if it hadn't been for the four-leaf clover
in her pocket Rebecca Mary would have been very much surprised to hear Mrs.
Peter Simmons' voice. "Does Mr. Frederick Befort live here? Upon my word!" as
Rebecca Mary jumped up and faced her. "I wondered if we should meet again. Mr.
Befort is one of the men at the factory so I have come to get acquainted with
his family," she explained with a friendly smile. "That's me!" Joan was on her
toes with importance. "I'm all the family Mr. Frederick Befort has, but I'm
loaned to Miss Wyman!" CHAPTER III

Fifteen minutes later Rebecca Mary and Joan with Joan's suit case and the
picture and the clock and the potato masher were driving away with Mrs. Simmons,
while Mrs. Lee waved her apron and promised to let them know the very first
minute that Mr. Befort or Mrs. Muldoon returned. "This is the picture of my very
own father and my very own mother," Joan explained as she showed Mrs. Simmons
and Rebecca Mary the photograph of a man in a very gorgeous uniform and with an
order on his breast standing beside a beautiful young woman in a smart evening
gown, a long string of pearls about her neck. There was a coat of arms
emblazoned on the silver frame, and Mrs. Simmons touched it with her fingers to
call Rebecca Mary's attention to the splendor of it. "This clock was my
mother's, too," Joan chattered on. "And I've wound it myself every night since
she went away so I had to bring it with me, and this," she looked at the potato
masher doubtfully. "I don't know why I like it, but I do." "Then I'm glad you
brought it with you." Mrs. Simmons patted the small fingers which clutched the
wooden potato masher and wondered if the pictured father was dressed for a
costume ball or if his every-day clothes were so gorgeous. "Did you ever see her
father?" she asked Rebecca Mary. Rebecca Mary quite forgot the brief glimpse she
had had of Mr. Befort's back as he was leaving the Viking room with Joan.
"Never!" she exclaimed with an emphasis which made Mrs. Simmons laugh. It
sounded so fierce, as though if Rebecca Mary ever had seen Mr. Befort she would
have told him a thing or two. "He has only been at the factory for a few
months," Mrs. Simmons explained. "We'll stop at my house and telephone to the
office. It will be interesting to hear where he has gone and why he has gone."
But when they stopped at Mrs. Simmons' house, a big sprawling mansion of brick
and plaster and brown timbers, and telephoned to the office all they learned was
that Frederick Befort had gone away on special business and could not be reached
by any one--not by any one at all. "Well, upon my word!" Mrs. Simmons was quite
taken aback by the decisive answer from the office. "I've half a mind to show
that man that I can reach Frederick Befort if I want to. It's ridiculous,
perfectly ridiculous, to think that any business is more important than his
child. What will you do?" she asked Rebecca Mary. "I suppose I shall have to
keep her until her father comes back," sighed Rebecca Mary. "I really can't turn
her over to the Associated Charities, but it seems to me that a good deal is
expected of a teacher." "She might stay here," suggested Mrs. Simmons. "One of
my maids could look after her. How would you like that?" she asked Joan, who
stood beside her. "It would be like home." Joan looked about the big spacious
rooms with their rich rugs and hangings, the attractive furnishings and
beautiful pictures. "Our old home, I mean. But I wasn't loaned to you. I was--I
was loaned to Miss Wyman." Her lips quivered and tears hung perilously near the
edge of each black eye. "So you were, honey." Suddenly Rebecca Mary realized
that a great deal was being expected of Joan, too, and she hugged her. She felt
almost as sorry for Joan as she did for herself. It couldn't be pleasant to be
left on the door step with a picture and a clock and a potato masher. "It's ever
so kind of you, Mrs. Simmons, but we'll manage some way." "I'm sure she wouldn't
bother me as much as she will you, and I have an obligation toward her as long
as her father works for my husband. Don't go yet," as Rebecca Mary rose and took
Joan's hand. "We'll have a cup of tea, and then I'll take you home in the car."
"I like to ride in cars," dimpled Joan, all smiles again. "I always used to."
Over her head Mrs. Simmons looked at Rebecca Mary and raised her eyebrows
questioningly, but Rebecca Mary could only shake her head. Rebecca Mary began to
see that there might be something in her principal's wish to have her teachers
know more of their pupils than their ability to read and cipher. There was such
a lot more about Joan that Rebecca Mary would like to have known that very
minute. "Where was your old home, my dear?" Mrs. Simmons did not hesitate to ask
for any information she wished to have. "Over the sea--at Echternach." Joan
turned an eager face toward her, quite willing to talk of that old home where
she had lived with her daddy and her mother until she had come to the United
States with her mother. Her mother had died suddenly, leaving Joan with a
grandmother who had lived only long enough to give the little girl back to her
father when he came a year later. And as she chattered Mrs. Simmons and Rebecca
Mary looked at the coat of arms on the silver frame and at the photograph of the
gorgeously uniformed man and the beautiful woman. "Tell me about your father?"
Mrs. Simmons asked as soon as she could slip a word in edgeways. Joan looked up,
a trifle puzzled by the question. "Daddy?" she repeated. "Why, he's just--daddy.
He's like--well, his eyes always look at me so lovingly and his mouth talks to
me so sweetly and his ears hear everything I say and his hands work for me and
his feet bring him to me." She kept her eyes on the photograph to make sure she
left nothing out. "That's my daddy!" she finished triumphantly, and she looked
up as if she dared them to find fault with such a daddy. Mrs. Simmons patted her
shoulder, and Rebecca Mary hugged her. "That's a very good working description
of a daddy," smiled Mrs. Simmons. "And here is Sako with the tea." When the
Japanese butler had placed the tray on the low table beside Mrs. Simmons, Joan
handed cups and passed sandwiches quite as if she were accustomed to that
pleasant task. "I'm consumed with curiosity," Mrs. Simmons whispered to Rebecca
Mary. "She is a most unusual child. You must tell me anything you learn about
her. Echternach sounds German, doesn't it? And although the war is over and
we're told we are to forgive our enemies, I can't quite forgive the Germans for
all the dreadful things they did. Nor the Turks. Of course the children aren't
to be blamed, but--That's my grandson," she told Joan, who was looking at a
large framed photograph on the table. "Young Peter Simmons, and I'm sinfully
proud of him. He was my first grandchild, and even when he was a fat bald-headed
baby I knew that some day he would do wonderful things. I suppose all
grandmothers think that, just as all mothers do. But I really didn't think Peter
would do as wonderful things as he has," she went on more to Rebecca Mary than
to Joan. "You know he has a _croix de guerre_?" She drew a quick breath and
looked at Rebecca Mary with a smile which was not at all a laughing smile. "I'm
apt to be a bit foolish when I talk of young Peter Simmons," she admitted as she
wiped her eyes. "I don't wonder!" Rebecca Mary drew a quick breath, too. "I
should think you would be proud!" She knew she should be proud if young Peter
Simmons belonged to her. She didn't care if he had scowled at her. "My daddy has
one of those." Joan's pink finger pointed to the cross on young Peter Simmons'
tunic. "Only his is an eagle." She showed it to them on her pictured father. "He
doesn't wear it every day." "Neither does my Peter," complained Peter's
grandmother. "Listen! Doesn't that sound like Peter now?" For a car had stopped
before the house, and there was a rush of young feet and a chatter of young
tongues. "Don't you hope it is?" Rebecca Mary must have hoped it was for she
turned a deep crimson, and when young Peter Simmons did actually come in she
gazed at him as if he were the most wonderful, the most amazing, man in the
world. Rebecca Mary had never met a hero before and although Peter looked like
any young man of twenty-three, big and brave and jolly, she knew that he was a
hero and that the French government had given him a cross to prove that he was a
hero. No wonder she drew a quick breath and that her eyes were full of awe as
she looked at him. She quite forgot that once he had scowled at her, and she had
scowled at him. Peter was not alone, and Rebecca Mary and Joan were introduced
to Doris Kilbourne and Martha Farnsworth and Stanley Cabot. The girls rushed
across the room to kiss Granny Simmons and tell her about their golf at the
Country Club and to ask her if Peter wasn't a perfect brute to beat them. And
Peter chuckled. "You must expect to be beaten," he told them in a lordly manner.
"Golf is no game for a girl, is it, Miss Wyman?" Rebecca Mary colored to have
him appeal to her, and she stammered a bit as she answered. "I thought it was a
game for men, fat bald-headed old men." The girls shrieked at that. "There,
Peter Simmons! I reckon that will hold you for a while!" "May we have some tea,
Granny?" drawled Doris in her soft rich voice. "Or is it all gone?" She would
have peeped into the tea pot to see but Granny kept her brown fingers in her
soft white hands. "Is it, Miss Wyman? Do you think you can find any tea for
these thirsty children?" Rebecca Mary was glad to pour tea. It gave her
something to do while the others laughed and chattered of golf and tennis and
the Country Club dances and a hundred other things about which she knew nothing.
Doris and Martha wore smartly cut skirts of heavy white piqué. Doris had a green
sweater and a soft green hat and green stockings while Martha wore purple.
Rebecca Mary could scarcely decide which she liked the best as she sat back in
her low chair, her hands loosely clasped on her knee. She wore a white skirt
herself and a white blouse but they were a little rumpled from spending the day
in school. But in her white hat and clothes and with a red rose in each cheek
she had only a faint family resemblance to the girl in the shabby blue serge who
had scowled at Peter that day in the Viking room. Peter looked at her curiously.
There was something familiar about the rosy little face, but he could not
remember where he had seen it as he refused tea and lounged back in a chair to
smoke a cigarette. "Hello, who's the chap in the Prussian uniform?" he asked
suddenly, and he lifted the photograph of Joan's father and mother from the
table where it lay beside the clock and the potato masher. "That's my father!"
Joan ran across to look at the picture with him. "And he has a medal, too." She
pointed to it as she nodded at Peter. "So he has, a real German eagle." Peter
was as astonished as she could wish, and he lifted his eyebrows inquiringly at
Granny as if he would ask where the German eagle came from. "He showed it to
me," Joan hinted delicately, and when Peter only grinned, she went on not quite
so delicately; "I love to see medals." "Joan!" Rebecca Mary was mortified to
death. What would Peter think? "You'd like to see it, too. You told the
grandmother you would," insisted Joan. "Would you?" teased Peter, who had
already discovered how easy it was to make Rebecca Mary blush, and what fun it
was, also. She blushed then, all the way from the brim of her hat to the V of
her blouse, but she had to say, "Yes, thank you." Goodness, if she had imagined
half the embarrassment her promise to Cousin Susan would cause her she never
would have made it. "All right, I'll show it to you, but it will be no treat to
you, young woman," he pinched Joan's cheek, "if you have a German eagle in your
family. Where is your father now?" "He's gone." Her eyes filled with tears, and
Peter imagined that he knew what she meant, that her father was dead, and he
patted her shoulder sympathetically. "And I'm loaned to Miss Wyman!" The tears
disappeared as she jubilantly announced what had happened. "I hope Miss Wyman is
as pleased as you are." Peter grinned at Rebecca Mary. Rebecca Mary laughed
softly and said that Miss Wyman was, and she only told the truth, for if it had
not been for Joan she knew very well that she never would be in Mrs. Peter
Simmons' lovely room with young Peter Simmons laughing at her. Joan had to ask
him again before young Peter pulled a small box from his pocket and showed her
and Rebecca Mary the _croix de guerre_. Rebecca Mary had never seen anything
which brought such a lump into her throat as that bronze cross on the red and
green ribbon. She could not keep her voice steady as she said:

"How proud you must be of it!" "Huh," grunted young Peter, closing the box with
a snap and thrusting it back into his pocket. "It makes me feel like a sweep.
Why, every man in the section deserved a cross more than I did!" "The French
general didn't think so!" Granny was indignant. "It's true!" insisted Peter, red
and embarrassed. "Oh!" breathed Rebecca Mary. She liked to see Peter red and
embarrassed. She hadn't supposed that heroes ever were that way, but she knew
that school teachers were. Stanley Cabot watched her face brighten. Stanley had
been an artist before the war and now that the war was over he was an artist
again, and the vivid expression of her face held his attention. "She looks as if
she had just wakened up," he said to himself. But suddenly the bright color
faded from Rebecca Mary's cheeks. "We must go home," she said quickly. "Come,
Joan." "Not yet," begged Granny. "You can't stay? Peter, will you see if Karl is
waiting? He will drive them home. Yes, my dear," as Rebecca Mary protested that
it was not necessary, they could go home in the street car. "You have too much
luggage," she laughed as Joan gathered her photograph and her clock and her
potato masher. "The suit case is in the car, isn't it? I hope you will come very
soon again," she said cordially, as she went into the hall with them. "I want to
see more of you and of Joan. I love young people, and I love to have them with
me. It makes me feel young. I hate to be old, but I am old, and the only way I
can cheat myself is to have young people with me. You and Joan must come to
dinner some night. Come Thursday. Perhaps we shall have heard something from Mr.
Befort by then." Joan, struggling with the potato masher and the clock, heard
her. "My father's name," she said quickly, "isn't Mr. Befort. It's Count Ernach
de Befort." "What!" exclaimed Granny, who had no idea that she had been
entertaining a young countess. "Joan!" cried Rebecca Mary very much surprised,
indeed, to learn that a young countess was in the third grade of the Lincoln
school. They were so amazed that Joan flushed and her fingers flew to her guilty
lips. "Oh," she cried, "I forgot! I wasn't to tell. They don't have counts in
this country." "Ernach de Befort," murmured Granny in Rebecca Mary's ear. "That
sounds like a queer Franco-German combination. I'd like it better if it were one
thing or another, if it were French. Never mind, Joan," as Joan began to whimper
that she had forgotten that she wasn't to tell. "We'll keep the secret, won't
we, Miss Wyman? Do you believe her?" she whispered to Rebecca Mary. Rebecca Mary
shook her head. Not for a second did she believe that Joan's father was Count
Ernach de Befort. She had met the active imagination of a child too often, and
she whispered that Joan was only playing a little game of "let's pretend" before
she said good-by to Granny and promised to come Thursday to dinner. Peter was
waiting beside the luxurious limousine. "I hope I shall see you again soon, Miss
Wyman," he said pleasantly, and Rebecca Mary devoutly hoped he would, too.
"Good-by, Miss Loan Child." He grinned at Joan as she sat with her arms full of
her treasures. "Good-by." Joan released one hand to wave it at him as they drove
away. "He's very nice, don't you think so, Miss Wyman? And awfully brave or he
wouldn't have that cross. My father is as brave as a lion, too." And she held
the photograph up so that Rebecca Mary could see how brave her father looked.
After Joan was tucked into Miss Stimson's abandoned bed Rebecca Mary sat by the
window in the soft darkness and recalled the astonishing events of the day. How
amazing they had been! And how jolly! She hoped she would see Peter Simmons
again, but there wasn't much chance. He didn't go to the Lincoln school. She
laughed softly and jumped up and went to her desk to take out the insurance
policy which was such a bugbear to her now and which was to be such a comfort to
the old age that always had loomed so blackly before her. She read it over and
then giggled as she took a sheet of paper and wrote across the top in large
letters--"The Memory Insurance Company." And below in smaller letters she copied
and adapted the form of her old policy--"by this policy of insurance agrees to
pay on demand to Rebecca Mary Wyman such memories as she may have paid into the
said company." And below that she wrote in large letters again just one
word--"Payments." She pressed her fountain pen against her lips and studied that
one word before she chuckled and began to enter her payments. "Kitchen curtains.
"A four-leaf clover, origin unknown. "One loan child of mysterious parentage. "A
hero and his _croix de guerre_." What a lot there were! Why, it was only ten
days since she had promised to take out a memory insurance policy. Cousin Susan
would be pleased at the number of payments she had made on it already. Her whole
face twinkled as she read the list. A hero and a _croix de guerre_! H-m! And
that four-leaf clover! Where had it come from? That list--why, that list
represented securities that she couldn't lose and which no one could take from
her. So long as she could remember anything she would remember Cousin Susan's
kitchen curtains which never would be bought now. She could scarcely wait to
make another payment, and she felt in each of her two hundred and eight bones
that there would be other payments,--many of them. CHAPTER IV

The very next day was Saturday so that Rebecca Mary was at home when the postman
made his first round. He brought her a letter from her mother, and Rebecca Mary
never suspected what a wonderful surprise was packed in the square envelope.
Mrs. Wyman's favorite aunt, a woman of some wealth and many years, had decided
to give a few of her friends the legacies she had meant to leave them at her
death so that she could hear how they were enjoyed. She had sent Mrs. Wyman a
check for five thousand dollars and a check for a thousand dollars to each of
the Wyman girls. Rebecca Mary's eyes fairly popped from her head when she saw
her check and read the letter. She couldn't believe that it was her check. "I
want you to spend at least a part of it on yourself," wrote Mrs.       Wyman.
"You have been so splendid and unselfish in sharing       everything with us
that you have earned the right to be a little       foolish with some of this
money. You never expected to have it and       so we never planned to use any of
it for a new roof or a kitchen       stove. Take a little trip in your vacation,
dear, or buy some       other pleasure. If you put it in the bank the interest
would pay       your insurance premium, but you have sacrificed so much to the
future. Perhaps I have been wrong in making so much of it for       after all
you are young but once. I do want my girls to have some       good times to
remember. Write Aunt Ellen a little note, and tell       her that you are going
to buy a lot of pleasure which you will       remember all of your life with her
generous gift." Rebecca Mary had to read that letter twice before she could
quite understand it, and then she looked at her loan child. "Joan," she
exclaimed breathlessly, "let us give three rousing cheers for a four-leaf
clover!" And after they had given three of the rousingest sort of cheers they
put on their hats and went down to the First National Bank, where Rebecca Mary
deposited the most beautiful check that she ever hoped to see. And there they
met Stanley Cabot, who was very much pleased to see Rebecca Mary again and who
introduced her to his older brother, Richard Cabot, who was the youngest bank
vice-president that Waloo had ever had. Rebecca Mary had never expected to know
a vice-president of the First National Bank, and as soon as she saw him her eyes
changed from saucer size to service plates, for she recognized him at once. He
was the man who had been with old Mrs. Peter Simmons that afternoon at the
Waloo, the man who had looked as if he could do things, the man who had made her
cheeks burn and her heart thump. She had never thought that already he had done
enough to make him a bank vice-president. He looked too young. Rebecca Mary had
always thought of a banker, vice-president or president, as an old man with gray
hair and plenty of figure. Richard Cabot hadn't a gray hair in his head and he
was as slim and straight as an athlete. He seemed wonderful to Rebecca Mary, who
gazed at him with a surprise and interest which amused and flattered him. He did
not recognize her at all for she had changed her face. At the Waloo tea room she
had worn a yellow brown scowl and at the bank she had on a pink smile. It was
not strange that Richard did not recognize her until she had agreed that it was
a gorgeous day and that Mrs. Simmons was a perfect old dear. Then it was Richard
who opened his eyes wide. "That's it!" he exclaimed, and the puzzled look in his
face was chased away by a slight flush, which seemed rather strange to be on the
face of a banker. "I thought I had seen you before, Miss Wyman. And it was at
the Waloo the afternoon Granny took me there for tea. She would accept no
refusal although I told her that bankers had no time and little use for tea. But
I was glad I went." He liked Rebecca Mary's pink smile and self-conscious
manner. Richard knew any number of girls, all of those with whom he had grown up
and all the relatives and friends of the older men with whom he was associated
and who regarded him as Waloo's most promising young man, and those girls had
always met him considerably more than half way. It was refreshing to meet a girl
who blushed and hesitated over the first steps to his acquaintance. It made him
feel big and mannish and important, which is exactly the way you like to feel if
you are a man. That is why when he met Rebecca Mary at the bank door, after she
had loaned that most beautiful check in the world to the cashier, that he said
more impulsively than he usually spoke to a girl:

"If you have finished your banking, may I walk up the avenue with you?" "My
banking never takes long." Rebecca Mary was all in a flutter at the thought of
walking up the avenue with Mr. Richard Cabot. Why, it would be like taking a
stroll with the ten story bank building. "I just put a little in, and it seems
to come out by itself," she explained sadly. The walk up the avenue was a royal
progress for Richard seemed to know every one. His hat was never on his head.
Rebecca Mary was rather tongue-tied, but Joan's tongue was not tied. Before they
were out of the bank she had told Richard that she had been loaned to Rebecca
Mary and that they were going to dinner at Mrs. Simmons' house on Thursday
evening. "I've never been to a party dinner in all my life," she finished with
great importance, "so I hope nothing will happen." "What could happen?" asked
Richard with a smile for Rebecca Mary, who gave him a shy smile in exchange.
"Lots of things. Scarlet fever or mumps or----"

"My goodness gracious, Joan! I hope you haven't been neighborly enough to take
mumps or scarlet fever!" The mere hint that Joan might have been that neighborly
was startling to Rebecca Mary. "But I'm not going to think of them because they
aren't going to happen, and there isn't any good in thinking of what never will
happen, is there?" went on Joan. "Not a bit," agreed Richard. "Are you going in
here?" For Rebecca Mary had stopped before the very smartest shop in Waloo.
"We're going to buy clothes for the dinner," Joan whispered confidentially. "My
father said that ladies, even as little ladies as I am, can't ever go anywhere
without buying new clothes. He thinks it's very strange." "So it is. No wonder
their money won't stay in the bank. I am very glad to have met you, Miss Wyman,
and I hope to see those new clothes some time soon." He looked straight into
Rebecca Mary's gray eyes as he told her what he hoped to do before he said good-
by and went on up the avenue. "Joan, you are an awful chatterbox," rebuked
Rebecca Mary. "I only talk because my head is so full of words that they just
tumble off my tongue. Don't the words want to tumble from your tongue?" Joan
asked curiously as they went into the smartest shop. Rebecca Mary looked at the
beautiful frocks about her. Oh, Cousin Susan was right, and her clothes were a
disgrace. They weren't clothes at all, they were only covering. She sent a
little thank you message to Aunt Ellen by telepathy before she began that
easiest of all tasks for a woman, to spend money. She had an odd feeling that
she was not herself as she went up Park Terrace with Joan on Thursday evening,
and she surely did not look like her old shabby self. How could she when she
wore a smart white Georgette crepe frock under a smart beige cape and her big
black hat had been designed by a real milliner and not copied by a "make over
person?" Rebecca Mary had spent an hour with a hair dresser that afternoon after
school so that from the wave in her yellow brown hair to the sole of her white
pumps she was absolutely new. She felt as new as she looked, for there is
nothing which will take the tired discouraged feeling from a woman, or a man
either, quicker or more effectively than new clothes. Festal garments had been
found for Joan in the suit case which Mrs. Muldoon had packed so that any one
who saw Rebecca Mary and Joan walk up Park Terrace knew at once that they were
going out to dine. They were early, and Rebecca Mary was dreadfully mortified.
It looked so eager, so hungry, she told herself crossly, to be early. Joan was
not mortified at all for in her small mind a guest could not go to a party too
early. Mrs. Simmons joined them in a very few minutes. Joan curtsied prettily
and kissed Granny's wrinkled white hand. "Did you teach her to do that in the
Lincoln school?" Granny asked Rebecca Mary after Joan had gone into the sun room
to see the gold fish in their crystal globe. "Have you heard anything from her
father yet? If Mr. Simmons were here we would soon know all about Mr. Frederick
Befort, Count Ernach de Befort," she corrected herself with a chuckle of
amusement. "But he isn't here, and I don't like to make trouble at the office. I
hope Mr. Befort comes back soon for your sake. Here is Richard Cabot. He asked
himself," she explained as Richard came toward them. "He called me up and asked
if I would give him some dinner. He often drops in when Mr. Simmons is away to
keep me from being lonesome. I'm glad he came to-night." Richard looked a trifle
conscious himself as he took Rebecca Mary's hand and told her that he was very
glad to see her again. "And her new clothes, Mr. Cabot," whispered an anxious
little voice at his elbow. Joan was desperately afraid that Richard would not
see Rebecca Mary's new frock. "You said you wanted to see her new clothes soon,
and here they are. Aren't they beautiful? And they were marked down from sixty-
nine fifty! Doesn't she look like a princess?" "I've never seen a princess,"
laughed Richard, his eyes telling Rebecca Mary more than his lips how very much
he liked her marked down frock. "Haven't you?" Joan looked quite surprised and
sorry. "I have. I've seen the Belgian princess and some of the English ones and,
of course, all of the German ones." Rebecca Mary and Granny looked at each other
as Joan spoke of the many princesses she had seen. They couldn't help it. And
Rebecca Mary began to think that perhaps Joan had too much imagination. It was a
very gay little dinner, and before they had finished their coffee young Peter
Simmons and his mother ran in to ask what Granny had heard from grandfather.
They were followed almost at once by Sallie Cabot and her husband, young Joshua
Cabot, and close on their heels came young Mrs. Hiram Bingham with her adoring
father-in-law. Richard drew Rebecca Mary to the other side of the grand piano
and told her how Sallie Cabot had eloped with her great aunt and found a husband
and of the jam rivalries which had threatened the romance of Hiram and Judith
Bingham. It was like reading two volumes from the public library to hear
Richard, and Rebecca Mary's eyes sparkled. So there really was some romance in
the world. She had been afraid there wasn't any left. She had thought it must
all be shut up in books. "You ask Sallie," advised Richard, when she said that.
"She'll tell you that there will be romance in the world as long as there are
people in it. I used to laugh at her but, by George, I'm beginning to think that
she is right!" "Of course, I'm right," declared Sallie, who had strolled near
enough to hear herself quoted. "Wherever did you find that child?" she asked
Rebecca Mary with a nod toward Joan. "Granny said she was a mystery, but she is
also a darling. She talks like an American kiddie, but she doesn't act like an
American. She acts more like a--like a French child," she decided. Sallie Cabot
had been at a French convent so she thought she knew what French children were
like. "Her mother was an American, from New Orleans." Rebecca Mary didn't know
what Joan's father was so she couldn't tell Sallie. "She is a dear, isn't she?
When she told me she had been loaned to me I was scared to death and furious,
too, but she really is fun. I expect I was in a rut," she confessed with a
shamed little face and voice which quite enchanted Richard. "A rut? What an
unpleasant place for a pretty girl to be. May I tell you that I love your
frock?" Rebecca Mary glowed with pleasure to hear young Mrs. Joshua Cabot admire
her marked down frock. Every one in Waloo knew that Mrs. Joshua Cabot could have
a new frock every day and two for Sunday if she wanted them. "I like it,"
Rebecca Mary admitted with adorable shyness. "So do I!" Richard did not speak at
all shyly but very emphatically. Sallie smiled as she moved away. "Any new fox
trots, Granny?" she asked. "I depend upon you to keep me up to the minute. Put
on a record, Peter, and let us jig a bit. You like to trot, don't you, Miss
Wyman?" Rebecca Mary admitted that she did, and Richard asked her to have one
with him as if he were afraid that some one would claim her before he could. He
was a perfect partner for he extended just far enough above her five feet and
three inches to hold her right, and their steps suited perfectly. Rebecca Mary
had never enjoyed a dance more, she thought breathlessly, when at last they
stopped because the music stopped. "Here's your next partner," announced Peter,
when he had changed the record and another fox trot called them to dance. If
Rebecca Mary had been thrilled to dance with Waloo's youngest bank vice-
president you may imagine how bubbly she was inside to fox trot with Waloo's
hero. Peter smiled as he looked at the flushed face so near his own. Lordy, but
he hadn't realized what a jolly little thing Granny had found. Nothing school
marmish about her with her shining gray eyes, which were almost black now, and
her yellow-brown hair and her pink cheeks and her smart new frock. Absolutely
nothing. Looking up to make a little remark about the call of the fox trot,
Rebecca Mary caught the admiration in Peter's face, and she was so astonished
that she lost the step. That made her furious, and she frowned impatiently. "By
thunder!" exclaimed Peter in quick surprise, and he stopped dancing to look at
her. "Now I know where I saw you before! It was at the Waloo, and you scowled at
me like a pirate. I was scared to death for fear you didn't like me." "You
scowled at me first!" Rebecca Mary's defense of her scowl was more emphatic than
logical. "Oh, come now!" Peter wouldn't believe that he had been that culpable.
"I couldn't scowl at you. My old Granny was quite broken hearted to see you
frown. She said if you were her daughter she'd lock you up until you had learned
to smile. Granny's strong for the grins. Give one and you'll get one is her
motto. You can see for yourself how it works. You scowled at me,--sure it was
that way!--and I scowled at you, although I don't see now how I ever did it."
"It's a very bad habit," Rebecca Mary told him severely. Her mouth was as sober
as a judge's mouth ever was, but her eyes crinkled joyously. "You should break
yourself of it." "I shall," Peter told her promptly. "Just how should I go to
work? You seem to have broken yourself of it." His eyes were full of boyish
admiration. "Not entirely." Rebecca Mary sighed, "I wish I could. A frowning
face is horrid. If you ever see me scowl again I wish you would shout 'Pirate'
at me as loud as you can. I'm afraid I do it unconsciously." And sure enough her
eyebrows did begin to bend together unconsciously. "Pirate!" shouted Peter
instantly. "I can see it's going to be some work to be monitor of your
eyebrows," he chuckled. Rebecca Mary was sorry when the dance with Peter was
over although she turned politely to Joshua Cabot when he spoke to her. "Peter's
a lucky chap," he said as he swung her out into the room. "All girls love a
hero, and he's a hero all right. I'd like a decoration myself, but I don't know
as I'd care to be kissed on both cheeks by a hairy French general. That duty
should have been delegated to fat Madame General or better still to pretty
Mademoiselle General. Peter is a good old scout, and modest. He blushes like a
girl when any one speaks of what he has done." Rebecca Mary nodded. She had seen
him blush. She colored delicately herself, and Joshua looked wisely over her
head to his wife. Hello, another victim for old Peter, his glance seemed to tell
Sallie Cabot. Joan danced, too, with old Mr. Bingham, who was not as light on
his feet as he had been once. "I do it for exercise," he explained to Granny.
"Judy thinks it's good for me." "You needn't make any excuse to me, Hiram
Bingham. I take exercise myself, don't I, Peter? And if old Peter Simmons comes
home in time we shall dance nothing but fox trots at our golden wedding." "A
golden wedding!" Joan had never heard of such a thing. "What does that mean,
dear Granny Simmons? Would I like one?" Granny patted her rosy cheeks. "If you
have any kind of a wedding I hope you will have a golden one, too. It stands,
Joan, for fifty years of self-control and unselfishness and forbearance and----"

"And love," interrupted Sallie Cabot quickly. "Don't leave out the love, Granny.
No man and woman could live together for fifty years without love." "I reckon
you're right, Sallie," agreed Granny meekly. "I've never been to a golden
wedding," ventured Joan, playing with the black ribbon which kept Granny's
glasses from losing themselves. "I've never been invited to one!" "You are
invited to mine this minute," Granny told her with beautiful promptness. "Oh!"
Joan balanced herself on her toes and exclaimed rapturously: "A golden wedding!
What good times I've had since I was loaned!" "I suppose you young people think
you are having good times," murmured Granny wistfully, "but they aren't a patch
on the good times we had, are they, Hiram? I like to take my memories out and
gloat over them when I hear you young people talk. I have a lot of them, too.
Why, Joan, if I should take all my memories out and put them end to end I expect
they would reach around the world, and if they were piled one on top of the
other they would be higher than the Waloo water tower." She named the highest
point in Waloo. Joan was not the only one impressed by the vast number of
Granny's memories. "Imagine," Rebecca Mary turned to Richard, who was at her
elbow, "having so many things you want to remember. Most of my experiences I
want to forget." And she shivered. "Have they been so unpleasant?" Richard had
never imagined he could be so sympathetic. "But I've heard that the hard
experiences are the very ones that people like best to remember." Rebecca Mary
shook her head. "How can they?" She didn't see how any one would want to
remember unpleasant experiences. "But you aren't going to have any more
disagreeable times," promised Richard confidently, as if he knew exactly what
the future had in store for her. "You are going to walk on Pleasant Avenue from
now on." "I hope so." But Rebecca Mary was not so confident, although she looked
up and smiled at him. "I surely have been on Pleasant Avenue this evening, but
now I must run back to Worry Street. I'm like Cinderella, only out on leave."
And she laughed at his prophecy before she went over to tell Granny that she had
never had such a good time. "Must you go?" Granny held her hand in a warm
friendly clasp and thought that the child looked as if she had had a good time.
"Wait a minute. Peter----"

Rebecca Mary's heart thumped. Was Granny going to ask Peter to take her home?
But if Granny was she didn't for Richard interrupted her. "Let me take Miss
Wyman home. I have my car." "I have mine, too," grinned Peter. "But you have
your mother. I'm alone." Beggars cannot be choosers and although she would far
rather have gone with Peter it was pleasant to ride with Richard in his big car,
Joan tucked between them. Richard bent forward. "Tired?" he asked gently. "I'm
glad to be tired to-night." Rebecca Mary spoke almost fiercely. "I've been dead
tired from work and from disappointment, but it hasn't been often that I've been
tired from pleasure." And then she amazed herself and charmed Richard by telling
him something of her life, which had been so full of work and disappointment and
so empty of pleasure. She even told him of Cousin Susan and the price she had
paid for their tea at the Waloo, and Richard, banker though he was, had never
heard of kitchen curtains buying tea for two. "You were there that afternoon,"
she reminded him after she had decided that she would not tell him about the
four-leaf clover. It would sound too foolish to a bank vice-president. "I know,"
Richard said hastily before he went on in his usual matter-of-fact voice. "You
modern girls are wonderful. You are as brave as a man, braver than lots of men I
know." "That's because we have to be brave," Rebecca Mary explained. "I don't
know why I've bored you with my stupid past," she said, rather ashamed of her
outburst. "I've never spilled all my troubles on any one before." "I'm mighty
flattered that you told them to me. It means that we are going to be friends,
doesn't it?" He bent forward to see as well as to hear that she would be friends
with him. It was not often that Richard had asked for a girl's friendship.
Rebecca Mary felt that in some occult feminine fashion, and she offered him a
warm little hand and said indeed she should be glad to be friends with him. If
her voice shook a trifle when she said that it must have been because Richard
was such a very important young man in Waloo. Before she went to bed Rebecca
Mary took out her memory insurance policy and entered another payment. "A fox
trot with the hero of Waloo." So far as her memory insurance went the most
promising young man in Waloo did not seem to exist although she liked him very
very much. But Rebecca Mary was like everybody else, she would rather have what
she wanted than what she could get. CHAPTER V

"I can't blame any one but myself because I don't know all about Joan." Rebecca
Mary was an honest little thing and she made no attempt to shift the blame to
any one else. She packed it all on her own slim shoulders. "If I had been a good
teacher according to my principal I should have called at the house long ago and
heard the whole story from Mrs. Muldoon. But I didn't. I kept putting it off,
and so I don't know much." Granny had stopped at the Lincoln school at the close
of the afternoon session to inquire if Rebecca Mary had learned anything more
about Joan's father. But Rebecca Mary hadn't learned a thing. Joan was an odd
mixture of frankness and reserve. There were times when Rebecca Mary thought
that she must have been forbidden to speak of her old life in the town with the
German name. The whole situation was puzzling. Rebecca Mary could not understand
it at all. If you imagine that Joan's company was a constant joy to Rebecca Mary
you imagine all wrong. Rebecca Mary liked to have Joan with her well enough at
times, but there were other times when she was perfectly indifferent to her
guest and still other times when Joan was almost an irritation, and Rebecca Mary
could not see why of all the teachers in the Lincoln school she should be the
one to have to borrow a child whether she wanted one or not. She had not had a
chance to say "Yes, thank you." "I've learned that Frederick Befort is on the
factory pay-roll and as Frederick Befort," Granny said slowly. "There is no
record of any Count Ernach de Befort. Of course now that the war is over I don't
suppose it matters if he is a German. There wouldn't be any secrets for him to
learn. Germany wouldn't be interested now in what is being done at the factory."
"But de Befort sounds French," objected Rebecca Mary, who could not see that
Joan bore any resemblance to any German child she had ever taught. "Joan was
born in Yokohama but that doesn't tell us anything. She certainly isn't a
Japanese. It's funny but she doesn't seem to want to tell me what country she
did come from. I was stupid enough to lose her nativity card, and when I made
out another and asked her what nationality her father was she said he was going
to be an American. I told her I wanted to know what he was now and she said he
had told her that they would forget what they were before they came to this
country. That seemed rather queer. But Joan talks of Paris as much as she does
of Berlin. I wish I spoke French half as well as she does." "She speaks very
good German, too. And as you say there is something suspicious in the way she
avoids any reference to her nationality. It does seem as if she had been told
not to speak of it. I suppose I am a silly prejudiced old woman, but I should
rather have Joan and her father almost anything but German. Are you through?
Don't you want to take a spin down the River Road before you go home? It's
perfect out, a real June day. Do come with me." Rebecca Mary had no trouble at
all to say "Yes, thank you" to that invitation. She called Joan, and they went
with Granny to the limousine which was waiting at the curb. "I wonder if
Cinderella's coach went as fast as this?" Joan said as they flew toward the
River Road. "We read about Cinderella this very day," she explained to Granny.
"It would be more interesting to have rats than engines, wouldn't it? I'd like a
pair of glass slippers, too, even if they would break so easy. Wooden ones would
be the strongest. That's what they wear at home, you know, wooden ones." "In
Germany, you mean?" asked Granny quickly. Joan wriggled. "Yes, in Germany they
wear wooden ones," she said as quickly, "I've never seen glass slippers, not in
London nor Paris nor Vienna nor anywhere. Aren't they any place but in fairy
land?" she twisted around to ask. "Nowhere. No matter how much money you have
you can't buy Cinderella's slippers anywhere but in fairy land," Rebecca Mary
told her with a sigh as if she, too, would like to find glass slippers somewhere
else. For a while Joan was silent, meditating perhaps on the shoe shops in fairy
land with their glass slippers of every size and color. Granny and Rebecca Mary
were silent, also, but they were not thinking of glass slippers as the car swung
into the River Road, which is quite the prettiest drive about Waloo. Never
before had Rebecca Mary driven over it in a smart limousine with a liveried
chauffeur at the wheel. She had walked there times without number, but walking
is not like riding in a pneumatic-tired machine, and Rebecca Mary did enjoy the
change. She was afraid that there was the making of a snob in her for she did
like to ride with Mrs. Peter Simmons better than she liked to walk with a
teacher as shabby as she had been. Yes, she was a perfect snob. She laughed as
if she found it funny to be a snob. Joan looked up and laughed, too. "I like you
best when you laugh." She squeezed Rebecca Mary's fingers. "Of course I like you
always, days and nights and every minute, but when you let your face break into
little holes," she reached up and touched Rebecca Mary's one dimple, "why I just
love you!" "So do I," said Granny. "And it makes my old face break into little
holes, too. Dear me, that makes it very serious, doesn't it? It is our own fault
when people frown at us. Don't ever forget that, Joan. If you smile at people
they will smile at you." "Will they? But I like to have people frown at me
sometimes. It makes me shiver all down my back. Don't you like to have your back
shiver?" "My back is too old to like to shiver. It's far too old and too stiff."
Rebecca Mary caught the note of sadness in Granny's voice and ventured to touch
her hand. "It's the heart not the back which should be young," she said softly.
"I read that somewhere so it must be true. And your heart, dear Mrs. Simmons,
will never in the world be old. Gracious, I should say it wouldn't!" she added
emphatically as she remembered how far from old Granny's enthusiasm was. "Don't
call me Mrs. Simmons," begged Granny, and she took Rebecca Mary's hand in hers.
"I'm Granny to all of my young friends. I'd like to be Granny to you." Rebecca
Mary caught her breath. Just imagine calling Mrs. Peter Simmons,--Mrs. Peter
Simmons of Waloo--, Granny! "I'm not going to let my heart grow old either,"
exclaimed Joan before Rebecca Mary could tell Mrs. Simmons how glad she would be
to call her Granny. "I want to keep it young for ever. But how can I when it
gets older every year? To-day my heart's eight and next May it will be nine! How
can I keep it young for ever?" Joan's voice was a wail. "Yes, Miss Wyman, how
can we keep our hearts young when there is always a birthday before us?" "You
know. No one can give a better rule than you can." But Granny shook her head.
She declared that there wasn't any rule, that was why there were so many old
hearts. People didn't know how to keep their hearts young. They weren't taught
in any school she knew of. "I'll ask daddy," promised Joan. "I expect he'll
know. I'll ask him just as soon as I see him. But I hope he won't come for me
before the golden wedding." She turned pale at the mere thought of missing a
golden wedding. "The golden wedding won't be until July," Granny told her.
"Imagine any one being married in July. It was the most scorching day. I thought
I should melt and that old Peter Simmons would melt and there wouldn't be any
one left to be married. We went to New York and the sea shore on our wedding
trip, and Peter ate too many lobsters and was ill. Such times as we had!" She
smiled at their memory. "The twenty-second of July," she said dreamily. "Will
you keep Joan until then, Miss Wyman? Oh, I have a plan! This is the last week
of school, isn't it?" Rebecca Mary nodded to the last question before she
answered the first. "I'll take Joan down home with me, to Mifflin, if Mrs.
Muldoon doesn't come back." "No, I want you both to come to me. Please," as
Rebecca Mary looked at her in surprise. "I'm so lonely in that big house by
myself. Mr. Simmons is away so much, I never know when he will be home. It would
keep my old heart young," she hinted, "to have two young things in the house
again. Do, please take pity on a crabbed old woman." "You're not a crabbed old
woman!" Rebecca Mary said fiercely. "I shall be if you don't come and stay with
me. We might motor up to Seven Pines, that's our country place, for a few days.
Most people think it's very pretty there. You want to come, don't you, Joan?"
"Yes, I do." Joan did not hesitate a breath. "I want to help you keep your heart
young. Don't you want to help too, Miss Wyman?" She didn't see how Miss Wyman
could refuse to help. "But my mother and sister will expect us in Mifflin." "We
can run down Saturday and tell them," suggested Granny. "We can motor down and
back in a day. I know your mother will be willing." But still Rebecca Mary
hesitated although it would be fun to go rolling into Mifflin in the big
limousine, and it would be fun, too, to stay with Mrs. Simmons in her big house,
but---- Her fingers touched her pocket and felt a hard round object, the locket
which held the four-leaf clover. The locket reminded Rebecca Mary that she
couldn't refuse Granny Simmons' kind invitation if she kept her promise to
Cousin Susan. She blushed and stammered a bit as she said "Yes, thank you." And
then impulsively she showed Granny the locket and told her what a mystery it
contained. "Well, upon my word!" Granny seemed as surprised and interested as
Rebecca Mary could wish. "How romantic! We must find who gave it to you. I do
hope it wasn't that fat old waiter who sniffs. Haven't you any clue? Who was in
the tea room that afternoon?" "I was there with daddy, wasn't I, Miss Wyman?"
Joan pulled her sleeve. "But I gave you violets. I didn't give you any lucky
clover." "Did you see her father?" Granny asked immediately. She was surprised
that Rebecca Mary hadn't told her she had seen Frederick Befort. Rebecca Mary
shook her head. "You can't really say you have seen a man when you have had only
a fleeting glimpse of a back. You were there, Mrs. Simmons. And your grandson!"
To save her soul Rebecca Mary could not keep the crimson wave from her cheeks
when she just the same as put a wish in words. But Granny shrieked with delight.
"If it was Peter!" she chuckled. "If it only was Peter! He is such a matter of
fact old boy. I'd love to think he went around giving girls four-leaf clovers."
"Matter of fact!" Rebecca Mary stared at Granny. Peter was anything but matter
of fact to her. Her voice told Granny so. Granny stopped in the very middle of
another chuckle. "Perhaps my eyes are as old as my heart," she admitted. "You'll
have to come and help me see Peter as you do, help me change my old eyes." "Can
you do that?" Joan wanted to know at once. "Can you change your eyes and your
heart if you don't like the ones you have, like Mrs. Muldoon changed the bread
one day? She said it was stale." "Indeed you can change a stale heart, Joan. It
is wrong and foolish to keep such a useless thing as a stale heart. You should
change it at once." "Where?" Granny looked helplessly at Rebecca Mary. Joan's
endless questions were sometimes hard to answer. Rebecca Mary laughed and
answered for her. "Wherever there is anything to love," she suggested. CHAPTER
VI

When Richard heard that Granny was going to take Rebecca Mary and Joan to
Mifflin in her limousine he discovered that he had to call on the Mifflin
National Bank, and he suggested that they should make the trip together. "I'll
drive you in my big car," he said. "We could stop at the River Club for lunch
and come home by way of Spirit Lake for dinner. You'll like the River Club," he
told Rebecca Mary. "It's on an island in the Mississippi and the dining room
hangs over the river. You can catch your lunch from the window." "What fun!"
dimpled Rebecca Mary. "It sounds like a most beautiful pink plan." "Pink plan?"
Richard didn't understand what she meant, but he thought she looked rather
beautiful and pink herself as she stood beside him. "Whenever I hear of anything
that is absolutely all right," Rebecca Mary explained, "I seem to see it as the
most lovely rose color. And so I always think of absolutely all right things as
pink. How lucky it is for us that you owe the Mifflin Bank a call." "It's lucky
for me," insisted Richard with a smile. So on Saturday Richard brought his big
car to Rebecca Mary's door, and Joan and Rebecca Mary ran down from the window
where they had been watching for him for hours. Rebecca Mary wore another
portion of Aunt Ellen's gift, a new motor coat--to tell the truth it was the
only motor coat she had ever had--and a fascinatingly small hat demurely veiled.
She looked just exactly right for a motor trip, and Richard told her so with his
eyes while Granny, who was already in the tonneau, admired her with her lips as
well as her eyes. "That's a very smart and becoming coat and hat, Rebecca Mary,"
she said at once. "Suppose you sit in front with Richard? Riding in an open car
always makes me sleepy and if you are back here you will talk to me and keep me
awake." "Won't I talk to you?" Joan didn't know how she was going to keep from
talking all the way from Waloo to Mifflin, but she obediently nestled down
beside Granny. "I rather think you will." Granny smiled at her and patted her
fat little hand. "But before you begin to talk you must help me plan how we
shall persuade Mrs. Wyman to loan us her daughter. That will take a lot of
thinking, and you can't talk very well while you are thinking." On the front
seat Rebecca Mary laughed joyously. "It sounds as if this was going to be a very
important expedition," she said. "It is," Richard told her with a flash of his
eyes. "All ready? Quite comfortable?" And when Rebecca Mary had said she was
quite ready and comfortable he took the seat beside her and did something to
buttons and levers and they were off. Rebecca Mary felt like one of the
princesses Joan talked about so intimately as they rolled down the street,
through the suburbs and into the real country. Richard called her attention to
this old house, a relic of pioneer days, or to that new public library, and to
the white sign boards which told them that they were on the Jefferson Highway.
The name was between a palmetto and a towering pine to show them that New
Orleans was at one end and that Minnesota was at the other end of that ribbon-
smooth road. Richard seemed to know the way and there was nothing which Rebecca
Mary should have seen which he did not show her. "Want to go faster?" he asked
when she leaned forward to look at the speed indicator. He touched a button
again and they went faster. "It's like flying!" she exclaimed with shining eyes.
"Oh, I do think there are such wonderful things in the world! Aren't you glad
that you are living now!" He laughed at her enthusiasm. What a jolly little
thing she was! And he told her that he most certainly was glad to be living that
moment in a way which deepened the vivid color in Rebecca Mary's cheeks. "Of
course it's an old story to you," she went on quickly. "But this is the very
first time I ever motored from Waloo to Mifflin. I've always gone in a stuffy
day train and had cinders get into my eyes. Once the train was held up four
hours by a wash-out on the road and an old Norwegian gave me some cookies. They
did taste good," she assured him for he seemed as interested in the cakes as if
he were a baker instead of a banker. "Norwegian women are good cooks, and Norway
is a beautiful country." "I suppose you've been there? Every country will be
beautiful to me unless I am so old when I start on my travels that I can't see.
My favorite castle is a railroad ticket. I've never been farther than Waloo in
all my life. I don't know why I tell you that for of course you know it. Any one
can see that I've never been anywhere nor seen anything." "Yes." Richard agreed
with her so promptly that she felt as if he had pinched her for naturally she
had expected that he would say that any one to see her would think she had been
everywhere and seen everything. The sting was taken from the pinch when he went
on: "If you had been everywhere you wouldn't be so jolly and enthusiastic as you
are. Girls who have been everywhere and seen everything aren't satisfied with
anything." "I wonder," meditated Rebecca Mary. "Then you think it's better not
to have and want, than to have and not care for?" "Much better. Very much
better!" "M-m," murmured Rebecca Mary doubtfully. "I don't believe you know a
thing about it," she exclaimed suddenly. "You've had all of your life!" "Not
everything," Richard insisted. "There is at least one thing I've never had." But
he did not tell her what that one thing was, and she did not ask him. The River
Club was all that Richard had said it would be. They crossed a bridge to the
island at one end of which was the rambling shingled club house which really did
overhang the river. Richard was quite right, and Rebecca Mary could easily have
fished from the window of the big dining room, but she preferred to let Richard
order her lunch from the club pantries. A dozen or more men were lunching at the
little tables, and Rebecca Mary heard scraps of their talk--"fifteen
pounds"--"the brute got off with my best fly"--"that darned pike couldn't have
weighed less than six pounds." She looked at Richard and laughed. "I suppose
more lies are told in this room than anywhere in the state," she whispered. "I
expect you are right," he whispered back. They had a most delicious luncheon of
black bass fresh from the river, of new potatoes and peas and salad and
strawberries from the club garden. Many of the fishermen who had nodded to
Richard came over to speak to Granny, and Richard introduced them to Rebecca
Mary, and told her in an undertone that this one was a lumber king and that one
was an iron king and the other one was a flour king. Rebecca Mary had never been
in a room with so many kings in her life, and she looked after them curiously as
she said so. "Yes," Granny murmured. "They call this the millionaires' retreat,
don't they, Richard?" "I prefer the River Club, myself," was all Richard would
say. The club with its royal members seemed to make Richard even more important
to Rebecca Mary, and she looked at him a trifle oddly as they left the island
and went on to Mifflin. She had known that Richard was very clever and important
--Granny had told her that old Mr. Simmons considered Richard Cabot quite the
most promising young man in Waloo--but she hadn't thought these elderly kings of
lumber and iron and flour would listen to him as they had listened. Richard
seemed too young to belong with those bald-headed white-haired pudgy kings and
yet they had greeted him as if they were very glad to see him. Rebecca Mary
stole a shy glance at Richard. He was looking at her instead of twenty feet in
front of his car as a motor driver should look, and he smiled. "Like it?" "Love
it!" And she smiled, too, and forgot all about kings. How splendid it was to
have Richard for a friend. And if he hadn't been a friend he never would have
smiled at her like that. It gave her such a warm cozy little feeling to have a
man like Richard for a friend. "Oh, isn't this the most wonderful day that was
ever made out of blue sky and golden sunshine!" she cried suddenly. "And we're
coming to Mifflin. There's Peterson's farm!" And now it was Rebecca Mary who
pointed out the points of interest, the old mill, the spire of the Episcopal
church and the new starch factory, which was going to make the fortunes of the
farmers, she told Richard with a serious little air which he liked enormously.
"What do you know about starch?" he teased. "Lots. I know that the farmers have
planted loads of potatoes, and they are going to sell them to the starch factory
for enormous prices." "Farmers always expect to sell for enormous prices, but if
they have all planted enormous crops some of them will be disappointed. There is
a little old law of supply and demand which regulates that sort of thing, you
know." "That's just it," Rebecca Mary exclaimed triumphantly. "The demand for
Mifflin starch is going to be so great that there will be a huge demand for
potatoes. I have a tiny bit of money that I might invest myself now," she told
him a little proudly as she remembered how much was left of Aunt Ellen's gift.
"I might become a starch queen," she giggled. "You might. But you might become a
starch bankrupt, too. Don't you put any of your money into anything until I have
a chance to look into it," he said firmly. "I never should have dared to ask you
for advice," she began, but he interrupted her. "You haven't asked, I've
offered, and I want you to promise you won't buy shares in anything until you
have talked to me. I've had more experience in picking out good investments than
you have." Rebecca Mary laughed. "You couldn't have had less. It's awfully good
of you, Mr. Cabot, to be willing to bother about my pennies, and when I have
enough to do anything with I'll remember your very kind offer. Turn down this
street if you want to find my home. Perhaps you would like to know whom you will
see there. There is only my mother and sister. Mother is a dear, and she has had
an awfully hard time. Grace is a dear, too. She is a year and a half older than
I am and looks after the public library for Mifflin. There is the house, the big
frame one on the corner. Why----" for the big frame house on the corner had just
been treated to a coat of fresh white paint, and Rebecca Mary scarcely knew it
when it shone forth so resplendent with its green-blinded windows. "What an
attractive place!" Granny woke up to lean forward and tell Rebecca Mary how much
she liked her old home. "It looks as if it had been a home for more than one
generation." "It has!" Rebecca Mary twisted around to tell her its history. "My
grandfather built it when he brought my grandmother here a bride just after the
Civil War. It's grown since then, of course; that wing on the right and the L.
It's really too big for mother and Grace but we couldn't sell it if we wanted
to. I'd hate to sell it if we could." Rebecca Mary really loved the old house
and she loved it more than ever now that it was repaired and painted. It really
looked imposing. She had no reason to be ashamed of her home, and she was very
grateful to Aunt Ellen as she slipped her arm through Granny's and led her up
the bricked walk as Mrs. Wyman and Grace hurried out to meet them. Rebecca
Mary's eyes widened as she saw the pretty summer frocks which her mother and
Grace were wearing and when she kissed Grace she whispered in her ear: "Hurrah
for Aunt Ellen!" They all stood talking and laughing on the wide porch. "So this
is where you grew to be such a big girl?" Richard looked at the ample lawn which
the white fence enclosed. He seemed to find it of great interest. "Yes," nodded
Rebecca Mary. "That is where I made mud pies, and there is the apple tree I
climbed. I pretended it was a ship which was taking me to the Equator. I had the
wildest interest in the Equator when I was ten. And that is the gate I was
always running out of until mother tied me to the apple tree." "Why, Miss
Wyman!" Joan's very foundations seemed to totter. "Were you ever a bad little
girl?" She couldn't believe it. Miss Wyman was her teacher and teachers,--could
they ever have been bad little girls? "Very bad!" Rebecca Mary's laughing answer
did not sound at all convincing. "At least that is what my mother said, and she
should know." Joan might have carried her investigation of this startling
statement further if Grace had not called to her to come and see the new brown
cocker puppy and help choose a name for him. Richard and Rebecca Mary were left
alone to talk of the days when Rebecca Mary had to be tied to the gnarled old
apple tree. "Richard!" It was Granny who interrupted them. "If you are to call
on the Mifflin Bank don't you think you had better go?" Granny's voice almost
sounded as if she didn't quite believe that Richard owed the Mifflin Bank a
call. Richard jumped up and looked at her in a dazed sort of a way for he had
completely forgotten the business which had brought him to Mifflin. Rebecca Mary
walked to the gate with him and gave him careful directions as to how he should
find the Mifflin Bank. When he had driven away she went with Grace to the
kitchen, where she mixed sprays of mint, fresh from the garden, with sugar and
lemons and ice and ginger ale until she had a most delicious drink. Grace
arranged the little cakes she had made on one of Grandmother Wyman's old plates.
"A new recipe of Anne Wellman's," she said, giving one to Rebecca Mary to
sample. "An after the war recipe. There is nothing conserved in these cakes.
Rebecca Mary, do you know what mother and I planned last night? Neither of us
has ever seen the Atlantic Ocean. I suppose you will think we have lost our
minds but we are going to take a part of Aunt Ellen's present and go to the sea
shore." "I don't!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary quickly. "I think you've just found
your minds. As a family we should have lost the art of spending if Aunt Ellen
hadn't sent her present just when she did. I'm glad you and mother are going to
have some fun. Good old Aunt Ellen! You must send her a post card. Send her two
post cards!" And the two girls laughed joyously. "That's all right," Rebecca
Mary went on more soberly, "but just let me tell you what her present has done
for me. I wrote you that I'd met the wonderful Peter Simmons, didn't I?" "Seven
pages. You do have the luck, Rebecca Mary! Why didn't you bring the wonderful
Peter with you to-day instead of the First National Bank?" Rebecca Mary
chuckled. "The First National Bank is really splendid," she insisted. "And
awfully important. He's been perfectly corking to me. But Peter Simmons, Grace,
Peter Simmons!" "M-m," murmured Grace enviously. Granny was enthusiastic over
the old mahogany and walnut furniture which filled the house and which
Grandfather Wyman had brought from his grandfather's old home in Pennsylvania.
"It's beautiful," she exclaimed. "You don't seem to have anything but old
mahogany and walnut, Mrs. Wyman. This is a real museum piece." And she ran her
fingers over the smooth surface of the old Sheraton sideboard and looked at the
old Chippendale chairs. Rebecca Mary had come in with her big crystal pitcher
and she placed the tray on the old Chippendale table. "And the reason we have
nothing but old stuff," she confessed frankly, "is that we never could buy new.
I suppose it is lucky we couldn't, but it just about broke my heart a few years
ago that we didn't have anything but four post beds and gate legged tables. I
yearned for a davenport upholstered in green velours instead of that ancient
sofa. I wanted less old mahogany and more new clothes. Is that Mr. Cabot?" The
sound of a motor car drew her to the window. "I hope he found the Mifflin Bank
at home." It was Richard, and when he came in he had a big box of candy under
his arm. He gave it to Mrs. Wyman. "This isn't Mifflin candy," Grace exclaimed
when she saw the tempting contents. "You never found this in Mifflin!" And
Richard had to confess that he hadn't, that he had brought the box from Waloo
for Mrs. Wyman, and Grace looked at Rebecca Mary significantly. "Very thoughtful
of your First National Bank," she seemed to say. Mrs. Wyman drew Rebecca Mary
from the little group to ask her if she wouldn't rather go east and be
introduced to the Atlantic Ocean than accept Granny Simmons' invitation. She and
Grace would love to have Rebecca Mary with them, but they wanted her to do
exactly as she wished. "I think I'll stay with Mrs. Simmons," Rebecca Mary said
after a moment's frowning thought. "You see there is Joan. I couldn't take her
east very well. And, anyway, the Atlantic Ocean will keep. It has been there for
some years, and Mrs. Simmons may never ask me again. I should like to visit in a
big house like hers, and she said she would take us to her country place, Seven
Pines. I can board at a sea shore hotel whenever I have the money, but I can't
always visit an old dear like Granny Simmons." "That is true. I hope you don't
think we are foolishly extravagant, Rebecca Mary? Aunt Ellen said we were to use
the money for pleasure. And then you wrote me what Cousin Susan said to you
about memories. I do want Grace and you to have some good times to remember. I
hope it isn't foolish," Mrs. Wyman repeated, for deep down in her heart she was
almost sure it was foolish to spend Aunt Ellen's present for a trip when she
could buy a mortgage with it. "If I told you what I honestly think we'd never
save another cent, and we'd have to take our memories to the poor house some
day. Really, mother, it is the wisest thing to do. Cousin Susan convinced me
that sometimes you can pay too big a price when you save and scrimp. Do get some
pretty clothes, lots of them. They make you feel all new and--and efficient,"
she laughed at her choice of a word. "That's a love you have on now. You never
got it in Mifflin. And if Joan's father comes for her and Mrs. Simmons gets
tired of me I'll come east and join you. I should like to meet the Atlantic
Ocean. I've heard quite a lot about it." Her mother looked at her and smiled.
The last time Rebecca Mary had been home she had not laughed like that. She had
frowned over the bills and talked of the future as of a barren desert. If taking
out a memory insurance policy would change a girl as Rebecca Mary had changed,
Mrs. Wyman was going to advocate memory insurance policies for every one. Granny
was delighted that no objections were made to her invitation, and she asked Mrs.
Wyman and Grace to spend a few days with her on their way east. But Mrs. Wyman
thanked her and said that they had planned to do their shopping in Chicago and
it would be out of their way to go to Waloo. Altogether it was a very
satisfactory visit, and every one was sorry when it was over and Granny and Joan
were once more in the tonneau of Richard's big car. "I like your mother and your
sister and your home so much, Rebecca Mary," Granny said when they had waved a
last good-by before they turned the corner. "So do I!" exclaimed Richard
heartily. "I do, too," repeated that echo, Joan. "Am I to talk to you on the way
home, Granny, dear?" "If you think it will make the ride pleasanter," Granny
obligingly told her. "But you must not be surprised if I doze in the middle of
your story. Motor riding does make me sleepy." The way to Mifflin had led them
down the river and the way to Spirit Lake took them back through a rich farming
country. Richard astonished Rebecca Mary by the ease with which he could
distinguish young wheat from oats and oats from barley or buckwheat when he was
passing a field at the rate of thirty-five miles an hour. The fields were only a
green blur to Rebecca Mary. They reached Spirit Lake just at sunset and were
pleasantly surprised to find Stanley Cabot perched on the railing of the hotel
veranda smoking a cigarette. He jumped up and threw his cigarette away as he
came to meet them. "How pretty it is!" Rebecca Mary looked around with shining
eyes. "What is that down by the lake?" And she nodded toward a screened pavilion
which wore a gay necklace of colored lanterns. "That's the dancing pavilion,"
Stanley told her eagerly. "Want to run over and have a fox trot? There's just
time before your dinner will be ready." Rebecca Mary's eyes sparkled. "Shall
we?" But she said it to Richard instead of to Stanley. "Sure. Come along." And
Richard held out his hand. "The dickens!" Stanley looked after them as they ran
to the pavilion. "I thought I issued the invitation. She seems to have made an
impression on old Dick, Granny? I thought he was immune to girls. What is it?"
Granny, comfortably settled in a big rocking chair, looked mysterious. "I expect
it was her scowl. She frowned at Richard, and Richard, you know, Stanley, isn't
used to frowns. Girls have always smiled at him. I expect Rebecca Mary's scowl
interested him." "That might be. A girl has to offer a man new stuff to interest
him. You may be right." "Of course I'm right. What are you doing here, Stanley?"
And while Stanley told Granny and Joan about the sketching trip which had
brought him to Spirit Lake, where he had found some corking effects, Rebecca
Mary and Richard danced on a floor which was far from smooth and to the music of
a piano and a violin which were not as harmonious as you would wish a piano and
a violin to be, but both Rebecca Mary and Richard said that it was the jolliest
dance they had ever had when it was over, and hand in hand they ran back to the
hotel and the waiting dinner. It seemed the most natural thing in the world for
them to go hand in hand, but Rebecca Mary was quite breathless when she came up
the steps after she had pulled her fingers from Richard's hand. "I hope we
haven't kept you waiting," she cried. "But it was such fun." "Much you care
about us when you scorned my invitation and went off with my brother," Stanley
said, as if cut to the very quick. "I don't know what reparation you can make
unless you sit beside me and talk exclusively to me." "Oh!" Rebecca Mary was
pinkly embarrassed. "I didn't hear you deliver any invitation," she stammered,
but her explanation only made matters worse. "Granny heard it and so did Joan."
Stanley quite enjoyed teasing Rebecca Mary into pink embarrassment. Perhaps he
wanted to see the scowl which had interested Richard, but if he did he was
disappointed for Rebecca Mary never frowned once. She was too happy and too
contented. She could only laugh and smile as she promised to sit beside him and
talk exclusively to him. That wasn't so easy to do as to promise for there were
other girls on the screened porch where the dinner tables were arranged, and
they smiled and nodded to Richard until he had to go and speak to them. "My
brother Richard is very popular with the girls," Stanley told Rebecca Mary with
a twinkle. "He's quite a boy, is my brother Richard." "M-m," was all that
Rebecca Mary would say to that, but she watched his brother Richard out of the
tail of her eye. Although Stanley was jolly and Richard was as devoted as those
other girls would permit, Rebecca Mary was glad when they were in the car again
and had said good-by to Stanley and the other girls and were speeding over a
road which was quite as perfect as the Jefferson Highway. "You drive awfully
well!" Rebecca Mary told Richard. "Want to learn? It wouldn't be any trick at
all to teach you." "You shan't teach her now," exclaimed Granny, who was not so
drowsy but she had overhead him. "This is no time to teach any one. You can hold
your automobile class, Richard Cabot, some time when I'm not with you." "All
right. Miss Wyman, I'll hold a class limited to one, in motor driving some other
time. Want to be the one?" He smiled down at her. "Do I?" Rebecca Mary was
almost speechless. She could only look at Richard until he flushed and murmured
that he knew it would be no trouble at all to teach her, absolutely no trouble
at all. "It's been the most wonderful day!" Rebecca Mary was almost at a loss to
tell them how wonderful it had been when at last they stopped at her door again.
Words seemed too inadequate. "As pink as you expected?" asked Richard. "Pinker.
The most beautiful shade imaginable. I'll never forget how pink it has been."
"If you liked it so much we'll go again," promised Richard, eager to give
Rebecca Mary another good time. Her enthusiasm made him feel very generous. "And
don't forget that motor class of mine!" "Forget!" Rebecca Mary stared at him.
How could she ever forget. She expected to remember his motor class as long as
she lived, but she didn't tell him that. She just thanked him sedately and told
him to let her know when his motor class would meet and she would try to be on
time. She did dislike tardy scholars. CHAPTER VII

Rebecca Mary could never believe that the next two weeks really happened. They
were far too wonderful. They couldn't have happened to her for nothing but
influenza and moths and insurance premiums had come to her. She felt as if she
were in the middle of the very nicest dream a girl could have when she stood in
the most attractive bed room she had ever seen and looked around her. It
certainly was going to be jolly to perch in the lap of luxury for a while. No
wonder Rebecca Mary liked Mrs. Peter Simmons' guest room. It was so very
different from the dingy rectangle which was her sitting room by day and her
sleeping room by night. Mrs. Simmons' guest room, with its flower strewn chintz
whose roses were repeated in the garlands on the ivory bed and dresser,
overlooked Mrs. Simmons' garden from which the roses seemed to have strayed. A
white bathroom opened from this rose bower and beyond it was a blue room among
whose forget-me-nots and bachelor buttons Joan had found a place for her family
portrait, her clock and her potato masher. And Rebecca Mary's days were as
different as her bed room. Instead of going to school Rebecca Mary went about
with Granny and met a lot of pleasant people of all ages. Granny was a favorite
with the young people, and as there was no end to what she would do for them she
was always the center of a jolly little group. "It's the prescription I'm trying
to keep my heart young," she told Rebecca Mary wistfully. So there were
luncheons and teas with girls Rebecca Mary had never imagined she would ever
know, and informal dinners and dances at the Country Club and long automobile
drives. One morning Granny took her guests to see Mrs. Hiram Bingham's small
sons, and Joan hung enraptured over the dimpled twins. "Horatio and Hiram!" How
Granny laughed at the names. "What should you have done, Judith, if there had
been but one baby? Which father would you have honored?" "Thank goodness I
didn't have to make a choice!" Judith shivered at the mere thought of honoring
but one father. "Providence was mighty good to send me two sons. Horatio and
Hiram are dreadful names, aren't they? But I just had to name the boys for my
daddy and for Father Bingham." "If there had been but one you could have named
him for the jam which brought you and Hiram together," suggested Granny with a
twinkle. "They name babies for kaisers but do they ever name them for jam?" Joan
could not believe that a jar of preserves would furnish a suitable name for any
child. "My daddy was named for a kaiser, not this kaiser but another one. His
name is Frederick William Gaston Johan Louis," she announced proudly. "Mercy me,
what a mouthful! What does he do with so many?" Granny had emphasized each name
with a squeeze of Rebecca Mary's arm. Surely Joan could never have imagined such
a combination. "He doesn't use them all now." Joan was almost apologetic. "In
Waloo he only uses the Frederick one. Isn't it funny how your names change? In
Germany I'm Johanna. '_Ein gutes Kind, Johanna_,' the kaiser said I was himself,
and in France and America I'm Joan. Oh, did you see that?" For young Horatio had
seized a handful of Joan's black hair. "Isn't he a darling! He's--he's a lot
better than a potato masher, isn't he?" They all laughed, and names were
forgotten for the moment although Granny gave Rebecca Mary an extra hard squeeze
when she heard what the kaiser had called Joan. "They must be German," Granny
said, when she and Rebecca Mary were alone. "I thought so all the time. No one
but a German would go away and leave a little girl as Joan was left. I shouldn't
be surprised if Count Ernach de Befort never came back," she added cheerfully.
"Oh!" Rebecca Mary was stunned at such a thought. "Of course he will come back.
And Joan didn't say she was a German." "Joan doesn't say she is anything. I
don't believe she knows even if she did say she was from Echternach. Never mind,
Rebecca Mary, if she is left on your hands I'll help you take care of her. She
amuses me with her contradictory statements. I like a mystery now that the war
is over." "I'm not sure that I do," murmured bewildered Rebecca Mary. She really
didn't have much time to wonder about Joan for Granny's friends seemed to have
entered into a delightful conspiracy to make much of Rebecca Mary. Sallie Cabot
gave a dinner dance for her and Rose Horton, who had been Rose Cabot, gave a tea
and even Madame Cabot, who was Richard's great aunt, gave a theater party, after
which she took her guests to the Waloo for supper and to dance. You can't really
blame Rebecca Mary for rubbing her eyes and wondering if she could be Rebecca
Mary Wyman. Stanley Cabot was at several of these affairs, and he watched
Rebecca Mary with an amused smile. "I thought you said she scowled at old Dick,"
he said to Granny. "Perhaps I don't know a scowl when I see one, but I didn't
think it was like that." And he nodded toward Rebecca Mary, who was smiling at
Richard Cabot. "Dear child," murmured Granny. "When you are my age, Stanley, you
will hate to see anything but smiles on young faces. I hope Rebecca Mary has
forgotten how to frown. But it was a scowl, Stanley, I know it was, which first
attracted Richard." It almost seemed as if Rebecca Mary had forgotten how to do
anything but smile, and young Peter had no occasion to shout "Pirate." He was in
and out of the house at all hours and so had every opportunity to see what
Rebecca Mary was doing. It was not often that she could persuade him to talk to
her of his experiences in France. "Of course a man can't get it out of his
thoughts," he did say one day, "but it isn't anything he wants to talk about. It
was just luck that got me up to the front. If I hadn't been lucky I shouldn't
have gone any farther than Dick Cabot. You know he tried to get into the
service, any service? Yep. But he broke his arm when he was a kid and it's a
little stiff. The doctors wouldn't pass him. Then he tried for the Red Cross and
Uncle Sam said, 'No, you're a banker, Dick Cabot, and the work you can do is to
sell Liberty bonds.' I'd hate to tell you how many bonds Dick did sell. It was
owing to him that this district went over the top as soon as the sales were on.
He's a corker, Dick Cabot, all right, all right. And he did as much at home to
win the war as I did in France." "Oh!" breathed Rebecca Mary, trying to grasp
this point of view which Peter was offering her. It was splendid of Peter to
talk that way but she couldn't really think that Richard at home had done as
much as Peter in France, and she said so. "That shows what an ignorant little
girl you are," Peter retorted. "But don't let's talk about the war. There are a
lot of pleasanter subjects." "Such as?" If he wouldn't talk about the war he
could choose his own subject. "You," Peter told her as she should have known he
would tell her. And he chuckled when she flushed as he had known she would
flush. Peter loved to make Rebecca Mary blush and stammer although it was not as
easy as it had been. Rebecca Mary was acquiring poise. Richard's class in motor
driving met as he had planned, and his one pupil would never forget the first
time that she had her hands on the wheel and felt the pull of the sixty horses
harnessed under the hood. "It makes you feel like a--like a god!" she gasped,
not daring to take her eyes from the road. "It makes you look like a goddess,"
laughed Richard. "You're going to make a good driver, Miss Wyman. You can follow
instructions and keep your mind on what you are doing. You don't try a dozen
things at once." "That was what I was trained to do. A school teacher has to
keep her mind on her work, and, goodness knows, she is given plenty of
instructions to follow." "You won't be a school teacher long," prophesied
Richard, reaching over to show her something, and his hand covered hers. A
thread of fire seemed to start from his fingers and run all over Rebecca Mary.
She couldn't speak for a second, and when she did speak her voice was not as
steady as she wanted it to be. "Gracious me, I hope not," she stuttered. "Who
would want to teach school for ever?" "You won't do it for ever!" Richard said
again, and no seventh daughter of a seventh daughter could have been more
emphatic about the future. He smiled at Rebecca Mary as she sat beside him, her
cheeks pink, her eyes black with excitement, her hair blowing about her face.
She wore another small portion of Aunt Ellen's present, an old rose silk
sweater, and it was wonderfully becoming. "I'd like to do this for ever," she
murmured. "I've at last found an occupation which suits me right down to the
very ground." "Would you like to do it for me for ever?" The question did not
surprise Rebecca Mary half as much as it did Richard. It was not often that he
uttered soft nothings to a girl. He was more accustomed to talk of stocks and
bonds, and he thought it was strange that he never wanted to talk of stocks and
bonds to Rebecca Mary. "You must have another lesson very soon," he went on in a
more matter of fact voice as she did not tell him whether she would like to
drive for him for ever. "Practice is the only thing that will make you perfect.
You must have a lot of practice." When Peter heard that Richard was teaching
Rebecca Mary to drive his big car he pretended to be vastly indignant. "Why
didn't you tell me you wanted to learn?" he demanded. "I didn't have to tell Mr.
Cabot," she answered triumphantly. "Great old mind reader, Dick Cabot is, isn't
he? Well, if you're learning to drive his big car you had better let me teach
you how to manage a roadster and Granny's small car and the limousine." "And
then I can stop teaching school and open a garage," dimpled Rebecca Mary. "Very
well, bring out your roadster." "You drive very well," Peter was good enough to
say when Rebecca Mary had demonstrated what she could do. "A little more
practice and you can drive anywhere." "Really!" Rebecca Mary liked his words so
much that she wanted to hear them again. "Really." And then Rebecca Mary killed
her engine and couldn't remember how to start it again. Peter put his hand on
the button at the same moment she did, and his five fingers closed over Rebecca
Mary's five fingers. Rebecca Mary quivered to her toes, but she tried to be very
matter of fact. "Granny said I might have to drive for her," she said quickly.
"Karl is going to leave, and she hasn't found a new chauffeur yet." That evening
she actually did drive Richard through the traffic which surged around the
pavilion where the weekly band concert was given. If Peter had been there he
would have had to shout "Pirate" several times for Rebecca Mary did scowl yellow
brownly, but that was because she was so anxious to drive well. "Aren't you
shaking in your shoes?" she asked when they were held up at a very busy
crossing. "No one can question your bravery now. You've certainly earned a
medal." Richard looked at her sparkling eyes, and his staid invulnerable heart
gave a flop which startled him, and a flash appeared in his dark eyes. "I'm a
man who always collects what he earns," he told her in a way which made her
heart thump a bit, too, although she would not let him know that, not for
worlds. "There isn't a better collector in all Waloo than I am." "My goodness
gracious AND my gracious goodness!" Rebecca Mary seemed much impressed by
Richard, the bill collector. "But you must not read the future by the past," she
cautioned gravely. "I seem to remember that at college I was told that even
Napoleon had his Waterloo." "We are not discussing Napoleon Bonaparte but one
Richard Deane Cabot," Richard reminded her severely. "Vice president of the
First National Bank of Waloo," she nodded as if to make sure that they were
talking of the same Richard Deane Cabot. "That sounds very important, doesn't
it? Important and rich and--and solid. How does it feel?" she asked with a
certain gay insouciance which was as new to Rebecca Mary as it was becoming. He
laughed. "Just at present it feels mighty good. I'm very grateful to the First
National Bank. I owe my present job as a motor teacher to that same bank."
Rebecca Mary's sober face made a desperate attempt to conceal her amused smile.
"That's true," she said, but her voice was as much of a failure as a disguise as
her sober face. "The two most important buildings in Waloo are undoubtedly the
First National Bank and the Waloo Hotel. At last!" as the traffic policeman gave
them the right of way. "I hope I don't do the wrong thing now and mortify my
teacher as well as myself. You never can tell what a pupil will do." "I'm not
afraid of my pupil." Richard was stimulatingly confident. "I told you that you
were a brave man. There!" Rebecca Mary drew a long breath. "We are on our way
again." She turned impulsively to Richard and exclaimed from the very depths of
her heart: "I can't ever tell you, Mr. Cabot, how happy you have made me!" "I'm
glad," was all Richard said, but his eyes flashed again. "It doesn't take much
to make some little girls happy." "Don't belittle your own generosity," scolded
Rebecca Mary. "You've given me a lot and you know it." Joan ran out to meet them
when they returned. "Granny is going to let me have a party!" she cried,
scarcely able to believe her news herself. "I'm to choose the guests and the
dinner and everything. I'm going to have you and the Bingham twins and Mr.
Peter. And I can't think whether to have little pig sausages and waffles like we
did the other morning for breakfast or nightingales' tongues like in the story
you read me, Miss Wyman. Granny said sausage and waffles didn't belong to
dinner, but if we had them for dinner they would, wouldn't they? And she said
she was afraid there weren't any nightingales' tongues in the market, and if
there were did I think the Bingham twins could eat them. Once at home we had a
swan with all its feathers on, and another time, at Echternach, when the kaiser
came, we had a boar's head. Do you think you'd like one of those?" doubtfully.
Rebecca Mary looked up quickly to see Richard's face when Joan spoke of the
kaiser as a dinner guest at Echternach, but he only looked amused so Rebecca
Mary stooped and kissed the flushed little face. "What I should like best would
be a little spring chicken," she said. "Odd little thing, isn't she?" Richard
said when Joan had danced away to ask Granny if the three months' old Bingham
twins could eat spring chicken. "Have you heard from her father?" "Not a word.
Nor from Mrs. Muldoon. We drove over yesterday, but Mrs. Lee hadn't heard
anything." "It was mighty good of you to take her in." Richard spoke as if no
one in the world but Rebecca Mary would have taken charge of a child who had
been left on the door step with a clock, a portrait and a potato masher. "What
else could I do?" Rebecca Mary would like to be told how she could have done
anything else. "She was--loaned to me." And she laughed. It was so easy to laugh
at the loan now. "All the same it was mighty good of you." He wished she would
laugh again. Like Joan, Richard did admire Rebecca Mary's face when it "broke
into little holes." "I don't know many girls who would have taken care of a
child who had no claim on them." "But she did have a claim on me. I was her
teacher." And Rebecca Mary did laugh again. Granny was just hanging up the
telephone receiver when Rebecca Mary went into the house. "I've been talking to
Seven Pines," she said. "Is there any reason why we shouldn't drive out there
to-morrow, Rebecca Mary? Mrs. Swanson just called me up to tell me that Otillie
is going to be married and she wants me to come out and see her wedding things."
"A wedding!" Joan jumped up and down on delighted toes. "You'll take me, Granny
Simmons? You'll never leave me in Waloo? You know I've never been to a wedding.
I've only been to church and school and a moving picture show." "Then you
certainly shall go to Otillie's wedding. We'll start in the morning and take our
time," Granny suggested to Rebecca Mary. "What do you say?" "I say goody,
goody!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary. "You have told me so much about Seven Pines I'm
crazy to see it." That night when she went to her room she nodded merrily at the
radiant face of the girl in the big mirror. "Well, Rebecca Mary Wyman," she
murmured joyously. "You certainly have turned over a new leaf--a real four-leaf
clover leaf. You're having the time of your young life. You must send Cousin
Susan a testimonial for her memory insurance company!" For she remembered to
give the credit for her new leaf to where credit was due. "You've had more fun
since you took out one of her policies than you ever had before. Gracious, I
should think you had!" She was still looking at the happy face in the mirror and
dreamily wondering about the bright new leaf she had turned over when the door
opened and there stood Granny Simmons. She wore her hat and her motor coat
dragged from her arm. In her hand she held a yellow telegram. "Come, Rebecca
Mary," she said impatiently. "Put on your hat. We'll go to-night!" CHAPTER VIII

"To-night!" Rebecca Mary swung around to look at her. It was almost midnight,
time to go nowhere but to bed, but Granny was not dressed for bed. What on earth
did she mean? "I promised Mrs. Swenson I'd come and see Otillie's things,"
Granny spoke almost fretfully. "I know what time it is, Rebecca Mary, but if we
don't go before old Peter Simmons comes we'll never leave. He'll want us to stay
at home until he can go with us, and he can never go. He's always too busy."
Rebecca Mary's eyes opened wider. She didn't understand why Granny should want
to leave for Seven Pines in almost the middle of the night if old Peter Simmons
was coming home. Rebecca Mary did not know old Peter Simmons, she did not know
very much about him except that he was the head of a big manufacturing plant and
that he was to have a golden wedding on the twenty-second of July. Granny had
always spoken as if she adored her husband. It seemed strange for her to leave
for Seven Pines if he was coming home. "Just put a few things in a suit case,"
ordered Granny. "We shan't be away more than a couple of days." Rebecca Mary
only stared harder. There was an expression on Granny's face which she did not
understand. "We'll go to Seven Pines to-night for several reasons," went on
Granny impatiently. "First because I want to go to Seven Pines before my golden
wedding for a special reason, and I promised to take you and Joan there, and
because Otillie Swenson wants us to see her wedding things. If we don't go
before old Peter Simmons comes we won't go at all, as I said. When he is in
Waloo he wants me to be in Waloo. I can gad as much and as far as I please when
he's away but when he is in town I must be home. I know very well the way he'll
stamp in here and say: 'Hello, Kitty! How are you?' and kiss me and go to bed
and sleep like a log until seven in the morning and then he'll eat his breakfast
and go to the factory and I shan't see him until dinner time. I might as well be
at Seven Pines. And then--I suppose you'll think I'm crazy, Rebecca Mary, but I
never was saner in my life. You would understand perfectly if you had been
married to old Peter Simmons for almost fifty years." The twinkle died out of
her eyes as she spoke of those fifty years, and she borrowed a frown from
Rebecca Mary. Rebecca Mary caught her breath and wondered if there could be any
trouble between Granny and old Peter Simmons. Granny had always talked so
proudly of her husband and what he had done to help win the war, quite as
proudly as she talked of young Peter. "Oh!" was all she could say, but Granny
seemed dissatisfied with that startled exclamation. "Read that!" She thrust the
crumpled telegram into Rebecca Mary's hand. "'Will be home on the 11.55 what do
you want for the jubilee?'" Even after she had read the telegram and
mechanically divided it into two sentences, Rebecca Mary did not seem able to
understand. Granny took the message from her and read it aloud with an indignant
snort. "You see?" She looked at Rebecca Mary as if she defied her to say that
the situation was not spread out before her as clearly as the green vegetables
at the grocer's. "'What do you want for the jubilee?'" she read scornfully. "If
that isn't just like old Peter Simmons! For almost fifty years, Rebecca Mary,
I've told that man what I wanted for anniversary and birthday and Christmas
presents. I've even had to tell him when the anniversaries and the birthdays
were. Never once has old Peter Simmons remembered them for himself. He has never
brought me a present without first asking me what I wanted. He can't even
remember whether I like white meat or dark when we have chicken for dinner. He
asks me every single time just as if it were the first time. And I'm tired of
doing his thinking for him. He knows very well what I want. We've talked of it
often enough. But I feel in my bones that if I see him to-night and he asks me
what I want for my golden wedding I'll say something that will make trouble. And
I don't want any trouble that will interfere with my golden wedding. I've earned
that, and I'm going to have it. I'm not going to take any chance of an argument
to-night. And the safest way to avoid an argument is to run away from it. We'll
go Out to Seven Pines and look at Otillie Swenson's wedding clothes and then I
may feel different. Put on your hat, Rebecca Mary. I know Peter does a lot of
this only to tease me, but I don't feel like being teased now. Isn't there
something else you should take with you?" she asked, and she looked vaguely
around the room when at last Rebecca Mary was hatted and packed. Rebecca Mary
stopped feeling anxious and giggled. It did seem so absurd for her to run away
with Granny from old Mr. Simmons' frantic question. She could visualize just how
frantic old Mr. Simmons was, and she felt sorry for him. At the same time she
didn't blame Granny. It was irritating to be asked continually what you wanted a
person to give you. Rebecca Mary's mother was something like old Peter Simmons.
For weeks before Christmas she wrote and asked Rebecca Mary what she wanted when
all the time she knew that Rebecca Mary would have to take what she needed.
"Isn't there something else you should take?" Granny asked helplessly as Rebecca
Mary put her in her motor coat and straightened her hat. "There's Joan?"
suggested Rebecca Mary, trying to keep her face from breaking into the little
holes Joan liked. "Of course." Granny pulled herself away before Rebecca Mary
could button her coat. "We can't leave Joan until we find her father. You call
her, while I explain to Pierson." Joan was an interrogation point when she was
wakened and told that she was to go to Seven Pines at once. She caught the
picture of her father and mother from the table but Rebecca Mary was glad to see
that she left the potato masher where it was. "I don't care as much for it as I
did," Joan confessed, a little ashamed of her fickleness. "But I just have to
take the picture and the clock, too." "Aren't you ready?" called Granny. "It's
half past now." And as if to prove that she was right Grandfather clock in the
hall boomed the half hour. It sounded very solemn, and Joan slipped her free
hand into Rebecca Mary's hand. "It is fortunate you have learned to drive the
car, Rebecca Mary," Granny said as they went down the stairs. "Karl left this
morning, you know, and the new man isn't to come until to-morrow. We'll take the
small car, the five passenger. You can drive it, can't you?" she stopped on the
last step to ask. "I hope so." That was as much as Rebecca Mary could promise
for it was one thing to drive a car over a smooth boulevard in broad daylight
and with a helping hand at her elbow, and a vastly different thing to drive a
car over an unknown country road in the moonlight and without a helping hand.
Rebecca Mary was really scared to pieces, but Granny was so confident that
Rebecca Mary didn't like to confess how scared she was. She looked to see that
there were gasoline and water for Richard had told her never to take out a car
without seeing that it had plenty of food and drink. "You'll save yourself a lot
of trouble in the end," he had promised, and, goodness knows, Rebecca Mary
didn't want any trouble. "You're taking a lot of time," fretted Granny from the
tonneau where she sat with Joan. "And we haven't a minute to waste. It's a
quarter to twelve now. If old Peter Simmons finds us in this garage we'll never
see Otillie Swenson's wedding things." "I'm ready now." Rebecca Mary wiped her
hands on a piece of waste and slipped in behind the wheel. They had to stop at
the house for Pierson was waving a small basket. "I put up a few sandwiches for
you, Mrs. Simmons." She was breathless from the haste she had made. "You'll be
hungry before you get to Seven Pines." "That's very thoughtful of you, Pierson,"
commended Granny as Pierson put the basket on the seat beside Rebecca Mary.
"Now, remember, you are not to tell Mr. Simmons when we went. Just say that I am
on a motor trip with a couple of young friends. And don't tell him we are at
Seven Pines. If he doesn't know where I am he can't keep asking me irritating
questions. Now, my dear, straight ahead until you come to the end of the
boulevard. Yes, Joan, it is very wrong to run away from home in the middle of
the night and you are never to do it until you are sixty-eight years old and not
then unless your husband will annoy you by asking what you want for a golden
wedding present." "I won't, Granny." Joan promised solemnly, although she knew
that she would never live to be sixty-eight. Why, it would take years and years
and years. But it was enough to make a little girl feel solemn to be wakened in
the middle of the night and told to get up and run away from a question. No
wonder Joan shivered. "And I know why you are running away," she went on
eagerly. "It isn't from any question, is it? It's to find the young heart you
are always talking about. I'm going to look for my father. Why are you going,
Miss Wyman?" she leaned forward to ask. Alone on the front seat Rebecca Mary
laughed. "I reckon I'll find a payment on my memory insurance," she said, and
over her shoulder she told Granny of the policy which Cousin Susan had persuaded
her to take out and which was to be payable at any time during her old age. And
Granny, who had reached her old age, thought that it was a most wonderful and
business-like arrangement. "Your Cousin Susan is exactly right. Young people
begin all their thoughts with 'I shall,' but old people think 'I did' or 'I
had.'" "I'm young then," Joan announced with much satisfaction, "for I always
think I shall." "So do I!" Rebecca Mary was quite astonished to find that she
did. "How far is it to Seven Pines, Mrs. Simmons?" "Sixty-three miles from our
front steps. Listen--is that the train? I reckon we are safe now." And she
leaned back with a sigh of relief. "Sixty-three miles!" gasped Rebecca Mary, who
never had driven one mile by herself. But there is always a first time, and she
remembered that she would have to drive only a mile at a time, and anyway it
would be Granny who would be responsible for what would happen. They did not
talk much after the first few miles. Joan fell asleep and even Granny dozed
although she really couldn't sleep for Rebecca Mary had to ask her every few
minutes the way to Seven Pines. Long before they reached the end of the
boulevard Rebecca Mary forgot to be frightened or nervous. She found it rather
thrilling to run away from old Mr. Simmons' question in the moonlight. They
seemed to have the world to themselves for they met no one. Rebecca Mary thought
she should like to go on for ever and ever. She would never forget this ride,
and she chuckled to herself. When she was as old as Granny she would remember
how they had fled from old Mr. Simmons' irritating question. And thinking of old
Mr. Simmons, whom she had never seen, made her remember young Mr. Simmons, whom
she admired so much. What would he think when he came to-morrow, no, to-day, and
found her gone? And Mr. Cabot? She had promised to drive out to the Country Club
with Richard that very afternoon after banking hours. Richard was going to teach
her to play golf. She was sorry that Granny had not given her time to write a
little note, to write two little notes. But she would not be away long. Granny
had said only a few days. And she could telephone to Richard and to Peter from
Seven Pines the very first thing, before she even looked at Otillie Swenson's
wedding things. She hoped Peter and Richard would miss her for she knew that she
would miss them. A month ago she had known neither of them. And now----

Young Peter Simmons was the most fascinating man. She flushed as her thoughts
strayed back to young Peter, and she wondered if the day ever would come when he
would ask his wife what she wanted for a birthday or an anniversary present. She
knew that Richard Cabot would never ask. He would never have to ask for he would
make a note of the date in his memorandum book and would be ready with his gift
on the proper day. Young Peter and Richard were as different as a vanilla ice
and a cherry pie. She liked them both. She couldn't think which she did like the
best. Peter had fascinated her ever since she had seen him eating fresh tomato
sandwiches with such gusto at the Waloo, and Richard did give her such a
comfortable, well cared for, warm feeling. It was like being wrapped in a down
comforter on a winter night to be with Richard. Hello, here they were at another
cross road. Should she turn to the right or the left or keep straight ahead? She
would have to ask Granny. But when she turned she saw that Granny was fast
asleep beside Joan. Joan's sleek little head was on Granny's shoulder and
Granny's gray head was resting on Joan's black hair. They looked so comfortable
cuddled close together that Rebecca Mary had not the heart to disturb them. And
anyway what difference did it make when they reached Seven Pines? "She'll be
awake in a few minutes," she thought lazily. "And in the meantime I'll stretch
myself and take a sandwich." She slipped from her seat to draw a rug over the
two sleepers and then stretched herself luxuriously before she took the place
beside the wheel where she would have more room to stretch while she ate her
sandwich. "Chicken salad," she murmured approvingly when she opened a package.
What a strange world it was, she thought as she lounged back in Mrs. Peter
Simmons' car and ate Mrs. Peter Simmons' chicken salad sandwiches. A month ago
and she would have hooted at the person who would have suggested that she ever
would do either. She never would have had the chance to do either she
acknowledged if it had not been for Joan the young Countess Ernach de Befort,
she laughed. Joan was a dear if she was sometimes a nuisance. How cross and
horrid she had been when Joan had announced that she had been loaned to her.
Why, if it had not been for Joan she would be fast asleep this minute in her old
walnut bed in her shabby little room in Mifflin. She would never in the world be
eating chicken salad sandwiches in Mrs. Peter Simmons' car, with Mrs. Simmons
and Joan asleep in the tonneau. She was sleepy herself, and she yawned. But she
could not go to sleep. She was on guard and--and what happens when sentries go
to sleep at their post? CHAPTER IX

"I'm hungry!" Joan's plaintive wail woke Rebecca Mary, and she opened her eyes
and then sat up very straight. "Why--why----" she stammered, rubbing her sleepy
eyes to make sure that they were telling her the truth. "Where are we?" For they
were no longer under a star-studded moon-illumined sky. They were in a rough
shed with a roof so close to Rebecca Mary's head that she could have touched it
if she had stretched up her arm. She looked at hungry Joan and then at Granny,
who was rubbing her eyes, too, and feeling for the glasses which should hang
around her neck. "This isn't Seven Pines!" Granny declared crossly, as one
occasionally speaks when roused from sound slumber. "Where have you brought us,
Rebecca Mary?" Rebecca Mary's bewildered face turned a lovely pink and the
corners of her red mouth tilted up. "Then it wasn't a dream," she said softly.
"It wasn't a dream!" she told Granny triumphantly. "What wasn't a dream?"
Granny's voice still had a bit of an edge to it. "Don't ask conundrums the first
thing in the morning, Rebecca Mary. What wasn't a dream?" "Well," began Rebecca
Mary, and her voice sounded as if she wasn't quite sure of her story herself.
"You know you went to sleep in the car last night, and when we came to a cross
road I didn't know which way to turn. I hated to waken you, so I ate a couple of
sandwiches while I waited for you to waken yourself. Suddenly I heard some one
laugh and say: 'Hello, I thought I knew this old boat. Where do you think you
are going?' And there was Mr. Simmons----"

"Not old Peter Simmons?" exclaimed Granny excitedly. "It couldn't be! He was to
be in Waloo at eleven-fifty-five. He couldn't have been at the cross roads!" "It
was young Mr. Simmons," Rebecca Mary hastened to explain. "He was in a roadster
with another man. I told him we were going to Seven Pines, and he wanted to know
why we were going at night, why we didn't wait for morning. And I said it would
be so warm in the morning. I didn't know whether you wanted him to know----"

"Indeed he may know. I don't care who knows," declared Granny generously. "And
he said he knew the way to Seven Pines, and he got in our car and took the
wheel, and we started again. But the road was so long and so white and the car
ran so smoothly and we didn't talk much of any, and I was so glad to have him
drive that I must have dozed off, too. Anyway, I just remember that we turned in
at a big gate where Peter talked to a man. I thought of course that it was Seven
Pines. And then we went a little further, I suppose into this shed, and Peter
got out and said he would see about something and--That's all I remember," she
finished abruptly. "But that's perfect nonsense," insisted Granny. "What would
Peter be doing at the cross roads at that time of night? You must have been
dreaming, Rebecca Mary. And I wasn't asleep all the time. I was awake off and
on, and I remember now, that at one time I thought I heard you talking to some
one. But it couldn't have been to Peter. You must have been dreaming, Rebecca
Mary!" She was so very positive that she made Rebecca Mary wonder if she could
have gone to sleep at her post. It didn't seem possible that she would have
closed her eyes when she had the responsibility of Granny and Joan on her hands
but sleep can sometimes be a wily enemy. It isn't always a helpful friend. But
if slumber had stolen insidiously over her how had they reached the old shed?
Her story furnished the only possible explanation, and yet Granny frowned and
said that her story was nonsense. "Are you afraid?" whimpered Joan, suddenly
clutching her arm. "Shall I be afraid, Granny? Are you afraid, Miss Wyman?" "I'm
scared to death!" But Rebecca Mary laughed softly, and she put her arm around
Joan. "But it is because I went to sleep on guard. Granny said I did. I should
have stayed awake to watch. But you needn't be frightened, Joan. There is
nothing to be afraid of, is there, Granny?" "Nothing at all." Granny made the
endorsement strong and prompt. "But we might as well look around and make sure."
But when she stepped from the car she had to catch hold of the door or she would
have fallen for her limbs were cramped and stiff from spending the night in the
tonneau. "If you live to be sixty-eight, Joan," she explained a little
impatiently as she straightened herself, "you will have learned that there is
nothing in the world to be afraid of. Come and let us see if we can find some
breakfast. I don't suppose whoever brought us here plans to starve us to death."
They presented rather a disheveled and crumpled appearance as they stood in the
open doorway of the shed and looked across the green grass which ran without
stopping to the green hedge a half of a mile away. What was on the other side of
the hedge was kept a secret by the arbor vitæ. Near the shed the grass was
marked by many wheel tracks. There was no one to be seen, and Granny went
bravely forth with Rebecca Mary on her right and Joan clinging to her left hand.
"The grass is wet." Granny looked down at her shoe. "Was there any rain in your
dream?" And she laughed at Rebecca Mary's puzzled face. "I don't know." Rebecca
Mary's voice was as puzzled as her face. They passed a huge stone barn and
several small sheds but there was no one about them. From somewhere they could
hear the sound of a gasoline engine. Puff--puff it said, but the silly words
conveyed absolutely no information to Rebecca Mary. When they rounded the corner
of the barn they faced a great stone house which might have begun its existence
as a giant's bandbox, it was so very big and square. But some one had added
wings on either side so that now it looked like a home and sprawled so
hospitably among the shrubbery that it seemed to call: "Come in, come in."
Granny gave a funny little exclamation when she saw it, and she hurried around
to the front, where she stood and stared at the house and then at the formal
garden with its pool and borders and its pergola, which ran all the way from the
west wing to the river bank. The barn and sheds were on the other side of the
house and, at some distance. In front the trimly shaven lawn was broken by a
driveway which slipped in from the high road half a mile away to encircle and
say "howdydo" to a huge flower bed which flaunted its red cannas before the wide
front terrace. There were two tennis courts on one side of the driveway, down
near the secretive hedge. "God bless my soul!" gasped Granny, as she looked
around her. The wind blew her gray hair about her face, which looked a bit
pinched in the strong morning light. "Whose place do you think this is?" "The
beautiful princess's!" Joan jumped up and down in delight. "It's too pretty to
belong to an ogre." "It's Riverside, Rebecca Mary!" But as that name conveyed
nothing to Rebecca Mary, Granny gave her more information. "Joshua Cabot's
grandfather's old home. Did you ever! It must have been Joshua instead of Peter
who came along and found us. But we certainly haven't anything to be afraid of
now. We'll go right in and ask Joshua for breakfast, and then we'll scold him
for bringing us out of our way, and then we'll go on to Seven Pines." Rebecca
Mary did not think that she could have confused young Peter Simmons and Joshua
Cabot, but she did not say so as she followed Granny and Joan up the steps and
in through the open door. There was no one in the broad hall but Joshua Cabot's
great grandfather and grandmother and they hung quietly on the wall in old gilt
frames. No one was in the big dining room to which Granny turned, but some one
had been there for the table was laid for breakfast. Covers were placed for
three. Granny drew a chair from the table and sat down before a plate of
tempting strawberries. "I'm old enough to take privileges," she said. "I hope
there are more strawberries, but if Joshua Cabot has been playing a practical
joke on an old lady he should pay for it. Come, children, and eat your
breakfast." Joan obeyed with hungry alacrity, but Rebecca Mary hesitated,
wondering if she dared. But the strawberries looked so delicious, Granny and
Joan enjoyed them so heartily that Rebecca Mary found that she did dare. In a
very few minutes there was not a strawberry left on that table. Then Granny rang
the bell for what was to follow, but no one answered it. She rang again, and
when again there was no response Joan jumped up and ran into the kitchen. She
came back in a minute, big-eyed and important, to report that there was no one,
no one at all, in the kitchen. Granny pushed back her chair. "The maid has
probably gone out for the eggs," she said with unruffled serenity. "I expect
Joshua insists that they shall be perfectly fresh. While we are waiting, Rebecca
Mary, come into the parlor. I want to show you a portrait of Joshua Cabot's
great-grandmother. She was Richard Cabot's great-grandmother, too, you know."
Rebecca Mary rose obediently and followed Granny and Joan across the hall and
into the parlor, which ran the full length of the house and whose many French
windows opened on the formal garden and furnished many charming pictures of the
river and the low hills beyond. And the sweet-faced young girl in a gauzy white
frock and with a pink rose in her long slender fingers was Richard Cabot's
great-grandmother. Rebecca Mary quite forgot that the sweet-faced girl was also
Joshua Cabot's great-grandmother as she gazed at her. There were several other
pictures to which Granny called Rebecca Mary's attention, but always Rebecca
Mary's eyes strayed back to the portrait. It seemed to call to her in some
strange fashion. Suddenly they heard a clatter, and a door slammed. "There are
the eggs!" exclaimed Granny with a sigh of relief. "I suppose they will be ready
in three minutes. Dear, dear, it is very plain that Sallie isn't here. She would
never put up with such careless service, not for a minute." She was interrupted
by a roar, a very bellow, which made them draw close together. "Here!" cried a
harsh voice which sounded for all the world like the voice of the Big Bear. "Who
has been eating my strawberries?" The words rang through the hall and came into
the big parlor with inhospitable roughness. There was a startled, an awed
silence. "That," whispered Rebecca Mary, as Joan huddled against her, "doesn't
sound a bit like Mr. Cabot." "It sounds like an ogre," Joan was sadly
disappointed because it hadn't sounded like a prince. "It sounds exactly like an
ogre!" CHAPTER X

Almost immediately there were steps in the hall, and a man stood in the doorway.
He did not look unlike an ogre for he was short and fat and had a round red face
which was topped with a shock of grizzled hair and bisected by a bristling
grizzled mustache. Between the hair and the mustache were two piercing blue eyes
which seemed to bore right into Granny and Rebecca Mary and Joan. Behind the
short fat man were two tall slim young men, who seemed very much surprised and
pleased to find that guests had arrived so unexpectedly. The short fat man
looked angry as well as surprised, and he showed no pleasure at all. "My
country!" he growled, still playing very realistically the role of Father Bear.
"Where did you come from? How the dickens did you get in? And what the deuce do
you want?" Granny did not answer him because she never had been spoken to in
quite that tone and manner. Men always approached Mrs. Peter Simmons of Waloo
with courteous deference, and this isolated case of gruff rudeness left her
speechless. Rebecca Mary could not speak because a hot indignation clutched her
by the throat and made it impossible for her to utter a word. It was Joan who
mastered her tongue. She looked fearlessly up at the frowning ogre and answered
his last question to the best of her knowledge. "We want a young heart and a big
payment on a memory insurance and my daddy," she announced clearly and somewhat
peremptorily, as if she were accustomed to receive what she wanted. If Joan had
not mentioned her daddy the ogre would have thought they were all three mad, but
he could understand a daddy if he could not comprehend a young heart or a big
memory insurance payment. "My country!" He breathed heavily and looked first at
the young man at his right shoulder and then at the young man at his left
shoulder. But they never looked at him at all. They were staring at Rebecca Mary
in her crumpled white frock and her pink sweater. "How did you get in here?"
demanded the ogre, and it was plain to each one of them that he would have an
answer, an intelligent answer, at once or know the reason why. Granny drew
herself up and looked at him with cold disdain. She did not like his manner, and
as he wore big round glasses he must have seen that she didn't. "We don't know,"
she told him in a very frigid voice. "Don't know?" he repeated, almost sure now
that they were mad. Surely an old woman and a young woman would know how they
had entered a house if a child didn't. He excused Joan on account of her age but
he did not excuse Granny nor Rebecca Mary. "You must know!" he told them with
that unpleasant dictatorial impatient voice, although the man at his right
touched his arm suggestively. "Don't say 'must' to me!" Granny rather lost her
temper. There is no doubt that bad manners are contagious. "Where is Mr. Cabot?
I will make my explanation to him, although I think he owes me an apology." The
ogre might have been but a speck of dust on the threshold from the way she
looked beyond him. "Mr. Cabot isn't here." The ogre's high and mighty manner
began to slip from him. "This is his house," began Granny, as if a man were
always to be found at home. "Not now----"

"He hasn't sold it?" Granny couldn't wait for him to put a period to his
sentence. "Joshua Cabot never would sell his great-grandfather's house." She was
so sure that he wouldn't that she stopped being indignant or cold and was just
frankly curious. The ogre looked as if he were not sure that it was any of her
business what Joshua Cabot would do before he made a grudging explanation. "No,
Mr. Cabot hasn't sold Riverside, but he has turned it over to us. We are making
a very important experiment for the government and we cannot be disturbed."
Granny's manner changed at once. It became quite friendly. "In that case I shall
tell you how we happened to disturb you." And she did tell them that she and
Rebecca Mary and Joan had left Waloo in their automobile the night before and
this morning they had found themselves in a shed at Riverside. But she never
said a word of Rebecca Mary's dream. "But that's a ridiculous story," objected
the ogre. He didn't believe a word she had said, for he had his own reasons for
being suspicious of strangers at Riverside. "You must know who brought you here.
Why should any one bring you? How did you pass the guard at the gate?" Granny
looked at Rebecca Mary questioningly, but as Rebecca Mary only seemed
bewildered, she shrugged her shoulders. It was not for her to explain the whys
of other people. "I am Mrs. Peter Simmons of Waloo," she said with great
dignity. "And people believe what I tell them." "Mrs. Peter Simmons!" The ogre
found it hard to believe that was who Granny was. "My country!" he muttered
under his breath. "Mrs. Peter Simmons--of Waloo?" Granny nodded stiffly. "Mrs.
Peter Simmons!" He didn't seem able to make himself understand that she was Mrs.
Peter Simmons, and his voice grew more like the voice of a human being with
every word. "My country! Mrs. Simmons, of course. I don't doubt the truth of
what you say," he stumbled on, "but this is strange, very strange. I can't
understand why----" He stopped abruptly and no one said a word. It was so very
plain that he could not understand. "I am surprised to see you, Mrs. Simmons."
He made a fresh start, and no one questioned the truth of that statement,
either. "Have you had your breakfast? Ben will make you some fresh----" His
voice choked again and he had to swallow hard before he could bring it up from
his boots. "I am Major Martingale of the engineer corps of the United States
Army," he announced explosively. That was the only fact he was sure of just
then, and he made the most of it. Granny was not of the type which bears malice
and the strawberries had not conformed to her old-fashioned idea of what a
breakfast should be nor satisfied her appetite, so she accepted the white flag
which he was holding out so ungraciously. "Thank you, we should like some toast
and coffee and perhaps a fresh egg. I rather think we ate your strawberries. We
should have eaten the rest of your breakfast if Ben had answered the bell." "Ben
went over to the farmhouse with a message to Erickson," ventured the young man
at the left of Major Martingale, glad to have a chance to speak. "You didn't
find any one to answer the bell, did you?" He seemed quite grieved that he had
not been there to answer it. "Not a soul. It was most mysterious. I dare say it
was all right but I should never approve of leaving unlocked a house with as
many valuable things in it as this house has." Granny glanced around the room
with its many souvenirs of pioneer days. "The front door stood wide open. I am
sorry if we disturbed you, but if you will give us something more substantial
than strawberries to eat we will go on and leave you to your experiment." Major
Martingale tugged at his mustache and looked at her in surprise. "That's the
trouble, you know," he rumbled. "You can't go on." "Can't go!" Rebecca Mary
found her tongue, and the men behind Major Martingale smiled pleasantly. They
liked Rebecca Mary's voice as soon as they heard it. They thought it harmonized
with her eyes. "Why can't we go? Is there anything the matter with the car?" She
wouldn't be surprised if there was. She never had driven a car alone by
moonlight over a country road before. Perhaps she had done something to it. "I
don't know anything about your car," fussed Major Martingale unhappily. "But you
should have known, the guard at the gate could have told you, that no one is
allowed to enter Riverside now without a permit, and no one who enters is
allowed to leave. No one!" He exploded again. Granny and Rebecca Mary stared at
him and then at each other. They didn't believe him. It sounded too ridiculous.
[Illustration: "DO YOU MEAN TO TELL US THAT WE CAN'T GO?"] "Do you mean to tell
us that we can't go when it isn't our fault we're here? We didn't mean to come
here. We wanted to go to Seven Pines!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary when she could
speak, which wasn't for a full second. "I mean just that." Major Martingale's
voice sounded as if it were made from the best adamant and was warranted to
withstand any pressure. It would be useless to coax or to cry. "I told you we
are making a most important experiment here for the government." Surely they
could understand the government. "A most important experiment," he repeated,
swelling proudly. "One that will mean a great deal to the whole world. Germany
has heard something about it and has been trying, is still trying, to get hold
of the inventor and his idea. If she could it would go a long way toward giving
her back her place in the commercial world, for it will be a vital necessity for
every country. And we don't propose to let Germany have it. That is why we came
down here to work and why we have a guard at the gate and why we forbid any one
who comes here to go away. German propaganda hasn't stopped. Any one who employs
labor will tell you that, and the socialists, the I. W. W. and the other
agitators are fighting a new war for Germany. We chose a few loyal workmen, men
whom we could absolutely trust, and brought them down here where they can't be
influenced and coaxed away by any agitator or German spy. You are an American, I
suppose, Mrs. Simmons, but your companions, what are they?" Granny was about to
exclaim indignantly that they were Americans, too, when she glanced at Joan.
Just what was Joan? Joan answered for herself. "I must be an American," she said
slowly, "for I'm honest and brave and true and free and equal. And that's what
Americans are. My daddy said so." "And he's dead right," murmured the man behind
Major Martingale's right shoulder. Major Martingale only snorted. "We shall try
and make you comfortable as long as you are here," he promised with a groan.
"But you can see we aren't going to take any chance of a leak. You'll have to
stay until we are through with our work." "Fiddlesticks!" exclaimed Granny with
more force than elegance. "We'll finish our breakfast, and then I'll telephone
to Joshua Cabot and ask him if we can't go to Seven Pines." "You can't use the
telephone," Major Martingale told her sharply. "Evidently you don't understand
that Riverside is cut off from the world at present." Granny stopped on her way
to the dining room. "Does he actually mean that? Is he telling us the truth?"
She appealed to the two young men, but they only nodded their heads. "Mayn't I
even telephone to my maid for clothes?" Granny asked almost feebly. "You may
not." Major Martingale was glad that she was beginning to understand. "You may
give me any message, and if I consider it safe and necessary I may send it on.
While you are not actually prisoners you can't leave Riverside, and you can't
communicate with any one. It isn't my fault," he added hurriedly. "I didn't
bring you here. I don't want you here! Mr. Simmons shouldn't have let you come!"
"Mr. Simmons doesn't know anything about it." "He doesn't!" The major was all
suspicion again. "I'll send him word. I'll----"

Granny caught his sleeve. "No, you shan't send him word!" she exclaimed quickly.
"He'd--he'd laugh at us," she explained stumblingly, and a red flush crept into
her cheeks. "You see we started for our country place. Mr. Simmons always said
women couldn't be trusted and he'd tease us so. Please don't tell him. We'll be
model prisoners if you won't, won't we?" She appealed to Rebecca Mary. "If you
do tell him you may wish you had never been born," she prophesied with a smile,
but there was something behind the smile which made Major Martingale mop his
brow and look unhappy. "So long as you obey orders I'll keep still," he promised
unwillingly. "I can't say more than that. Mr. Marshall, will you see that these
ladies have breakfast. I can't waste any more time. I shan't wait for breakfast.
I've lost my appetite." And he waddled away before any one could say a word.
Granny looked after him all ready to say several words if he would only stay and
listen to them, but as he never looked back, she dropped into the nearest chair
and laughed until the tears stood in her eyes. Rebecca Mary was frightened and
ran to her. "There, there," she said soothingly. She was sure that Granny had
hysterics, and she did not know what to do for hysterics. She wished she had
taken the First Aid last winter when she had a chance. "It's all right," she
insisted, although she was not at all sure that it was all right. Granny pushed
her away. "It's--it's----" she began, and stopped to wipe the tears from her
eyes. "Oh, my old heart!" And she put her hand to her side and looked at them
helplessly. Joan ran to her. "Is your old heart getting younger, Granny?" she
asked anxiously. Granny patted her cheek. "I expect that is it. My old heart is
getting younger. No wonder I have a queer feeling in it." "Better have some
coffee," suggested Mr. Marshall. He was young enough to regard food as a panacea
for every ill. He introduced them to Mr. George Barton, an electrical engineer,
and explained that he was an engineer, too, a chemical one, before he persuaded
Granny to return to the dining room, where Ben brought fresh coffee and eggs and
toast. And while they ate their breakfast Mr. Marshall and Mr. Barton told them
that Major Martingale was quite right, most important things were being done at
Riverside. "We're all here until the experiment is proved a success or a
failure," went on Mr. Marshall. "It may be for a week and it may be for two
months. No one goes out but the Big Boss. He went away last night." "What is
this great experiment?" asked Rebecca Mary between two bites of soft boiled egg.
"I'm sorry but we can't breathe a word about it. We scarcely speak of it among
ourselves," regretted Mr. Marshall. He looked as if he would be glad to tell
them if he only could. "The Major is right, old Germany is moving heaven and
earth to get it from us." Granny sniffed. "H-m," she murmured. "And you think we
are going to stay here indefinitely while this Major Martingale--Major Cross
would be a better name--finds out whether he is a fool or a genius?" George
Barton laughed joyously. "That isn't exactly the way I'd state it, but it's the
way it is, isn't it, Wallie? You see the thing is frightfully important. We're
scared to death for fear the Germans may get a hint. We all took an iron clad
oath, but the Huns are so devilishly clever you never can tell how or when they
will reach your workmen. It isn't so bad here. We don't have such worse times,
good quarters, fine eats, plenty to read, a victrola and a grand piano and
tennis. Do you play tennis?" he asked Rebecca Mary, who was staring at him with
big round eyes. She couldn't believe yet that it was true, that she and Granny
and Joan were prisoners in Riverside. "You may call yourself prisoners if you
wish," it almost seemed as if Wallace Marshall had read her thoughts. "But we
shall think of you as honored guests. And, believe me, I'm glad you came," he
said fervently. "You've no idea how you will be appreciated." Granny pushed back
her chair and regarded him with a strange glance. Evidently she did not care for
his appreciation. "Oh!" Rebecca Mary pushed back her chair, too. She did not
know what she feared Granny might do or say. "Rebecca Mary," to her great relief
Granny chuckled as she turned to her, "did you ever hear of such a thing? I
reckon I've managed to get away from that question better than I planned. No one
can come here to ask me what I want for a jubilee present." And she laughed
before she turned to Wallie Marshall and George Barton. "We'll stay for a
while," she went on quite as if she were at the seashore arranging dates with
the manager of a popular hotel instead of in prison talking to an assistant
jailer. "But you will have to finish your experiment by the twentieth. I have an
important engagement on the twenty-second. A very important engagement. We can't
stay a minute after the twentieth. And Major Martingale will have to explain to
Mrs. Swenson why we didn't come to see Otillie's wedding things." CHAPTER XI

With a broad smile Ben led the way up the stairs, talking all the time. "Ah suah
will be glad to hab ladies about agin," he chuckled. "Genelmen is all right in
der way. Ah hain't got nothin' to say agin genelmen as genelmen, but no one can
say they is so picturefying as de ladies. You better take the fambly rooms, Mrs.
Simmons. There hain't nobody been usin' of 'em an' you'll find 'em mighty
pleasant whether you looks out or in. An' they's allus ready." He opened the
door of the suite which occupied the west wing, and Rebecca Mary gave a little
exclamation of delight. She quite agreed with Ben. The rooms were mighty
pleasant in their pretty furnishings, while from the windows one looked over the
formal garden to the river which flowed so peacefully between its two banks.
"How perfectly beautiful!" she murmured. "Yes, they are very good cells," agreed
Granny. "I'm sure we shall be as comfortable as prisoners should be. Bring in
our suit cases, please, Ben. Doesn't it seem restful and quiet, Rebecca Mary? I
believe it will be good for us to rest here for a few days. It is too bad we
won't see Otillie's wedding things, but that isn't our fault as I shall explain
to Mrs. Swenson. You heard me tell that young man that we might stay until the
twentieth? That was just a blind. We'll only stay until we want to go and then
we'll slip away." "How?" laughed Rebecca Mary, still hanging enchanted over the
garden. "Shall I twist a sheet and lower you from the window?" "I don't think it
will be necessary to spoil good sheets," Granny laughed, too, perhaps at the
picture Rebecca Mary had painted of a golden wedding bride dangling by a twisted
sheet from a second story window. "I shall find a more comfortable way. You
know, Rebecca Mary," she said in an undertone so that Joan, who was trying all
of the faucets in the bathroom, would not hear her, "I'm not just sure about
things here. That story may be all right, it may be true that Major Martingale
has brought a lot of men down here to work out some experiment for the
government and he may be afraid that some hint may leak out to the Germans, but
it sounds very queer to me. I can't imagine what the experiment could be. And
Joshua Cabot has never hinted to me that he has loaned Riverside to any one. So
I think we had better not make any fuss but just stay quietly until we can learn
something definite, and then if the story isn't true we can slip away and warn
Joshua that queer things are happening here." "Why, Granny Simmons!" Rebecca
Mary had never thought that Major Martingale's story could be anything but true.
"How shall we find out?" "We shall keep our eyes and ears wide open. First we
must make them trust us and then--and then, Rebecca Mary, we can learn the
truth. Don't ask me how again," as she saw the question trembling on Rebecca
Mary's lips, "for I don't know. But we shall, and until we do we'll just forget
about it. I declare I feel younger than I have for years. But I'm tired. I
didn't sleep well last night. If you take my advice now, children, you'll try
these beds and see how soft they are. I am sure I feel the need of at least
forty good winks." "Oh, I couldn't sleep now." Rebecca Mary was too excited even
to think of sleep. She would rather go down to the garden where the big pool
showed the blue sky how becoming the fleecy white clouds were. The garden was
far more alluring to her just then than the softest of beds. "I couldn't,
either!" exclaimed Joan. "Must I?" Granny did not insist, and after she was
tucked under the silken comforter Rebecca Mary and Joan went down the stairs
hand in hand. They ran through the open door and found a surprise on the other
side, a surprise over six feet long. "Hello!" exclaimed the surprise, all
a-grin. "Hello!" replied Rebecca Mary somewhat feebly, and then she laughed for
the surprise was young Peter Simmons. If Rebecca Mary's fingers had not been in
her pocket with the four-leaf clover locket she would not have believed her two
gray eyes. "Then it wasn't a dream!" she said triumphantly. "Wasn't it?" Peter
looked at Rebecca Mary as she stood before him in her crumpled white frock and
pink sweater. Peter never saw that the frock was crumpled. He only saw the two
shining gray eyes, the smiling red mouth and the two pink cheeks which helped to
make Rebecca Mary's radiant face. "I told Granny that you found us last night
and she said I was dreaming," she explained more soberly. "Have you come to
rescue us again?" It would be so romantic if the four-leaf clover had sent young
Peter Simmons to their rescue a second time. "Rescue you?" He looked puzzled,
for Rebecca Mary did not look as if she were in any danger as she stood there in
front of the door. "I want to apologize for leaving you in the old shed," he
went on. "It started to rain just before we turned in here last night and the
shed was the nearest place. Yes, I picked you up, it wasn't any dream. Granny
was wrong. I had received a hurry up call to come out at once and was on my way
in my little gas wagon with a man from the factory when at the cross roads, a
mile and half back, I came across two women and a half----"

"Was the half me?" demanded Joan, dancing up and down. "Do you mean me when you
say half a woman?" "I certainly do," smiled Peter. "One woman and a half were
sound asleep and the other woman was just about asleep. The cross roads didn't
seem the safest place for a nap so I left my machine to the mechanic and took
the wheel of yours. I didn't dare take you to the house until I spoke to old
Martingale but when I met him he wouldn't listen to my story but marched me off
to the shop for a minute. The minute grew into sixty before I could get away,
and when I went back to the shed you had gone. How is Granny? The idea of a
child of her age going to sleep in a motor car thirty miles from home. Any one
could have come along and carried you off!" It almost sounded as if Peter was
scolding them. "I said you brought us here, I remember perfectly now, but Granny
wouldn't believe me. Did you know that we would have to stay for ever?" "For
ever?" Peter didn't understand. With Joan's assistance Rebecca Mary explained
that no one who came to Riverside could leave, and Peter threw back his head and
laughed and laughed. "Good work," he chuckled. "I guess I've eliminated old Dick
Cabot for a while. He always was in the way in Waloo. But why in the dickens
were you and Granny and this half woman," he pinched Joan's cheek, "going to
Seven Pines in the middle of the night?" Evidently he had forgotten the
explanation Rebecca Mary had given him in the middle of the night. "Your
grandmother decided rather suddenly to leave home," Rebecca Mary dimpled as she
remembered how suddenly Granny had decided, "and she asked me to drive her to
Seven Pines. I was scared to pieces but I couldn't refuse." "That's very good as
far as it goes, but it doesn't explain why Granny had to start in the middle of
the night, why she couldn't wait until morning?" Rebecca Mary hesitated until
she remembered that Granny had said she didn't care if Peter knew, she didn't
care if every one knew. "I suppose I may tell you," the corners of her mouth
tilted up. "She wanted to run away from a question." "A question?" Peter looked
hopelessly bewildered. "Why should any one, least of all an old woman of sixty-
eight, run away from a question?" Even when Rebecca Mary had explained what
question it was which had made Granny abandon her comfortable home in Waloo at
midnight Peter didn't seem to understand, and he said so. "That's because you're
a man!" Rebecca Mary was very scornful of a man's power of comprehension. "I
understand perfectly, and I don't blame Granny a bit. It must be perfectly
maddening to have your husband ask you whether you want light meat or dark every
time a chicken comes to the table or what you want for a birthday or a Christmas
present. I don't blame Granny," she repeated for fear he had not heard her the
first time she said it. "Neither do I when you say it like that," Peter agreed
amiably. "Although I can't see why she didn't go to grandfather and tell him how
she felt. My grandfather, Miss Rebecca Mary Wyman, is the best old scout in the
world. Don't think for a minute that he is a crabbed selfish old dub because he
isn't. He's the head of a big manufacturing plant which he had ready to turn
over to the government before the war because he saw it coming, and it's been no
joke to get it back to a peace basis since the war. I don't know anything about
this chicken meat proposition, but I do know that granddad has so much on his
mind that it isn't surprising if he has forgotten a little thing like an
anniversary----"

"Little thing!" Anniversaries were not little things to Rebecca Mary. They
aren't little things to any woman. "A golden wedding a little thing!" It was
perfectly clear to Peter that a golden wedding with all its tributes and
attributes would never be a little thing to Rebecca Mary. "She's going to ask
me," Joan broke in excitedly. "I've never been to one, and I can't think what it
will be like. What will be golden? The bride can't be, can she?" "No," Rebecca
Mary put an arm around Joan as she explained. "No, honey, the golden part will
be the beautiful memory the bride and bridegroom will have of the fifty happy
years they have spent together." She stopped suddenly as she remembered that was
what Cousin Susan had said, that memories were golden. "What a long time that
is!" she murmured dreamily. "Fifty years!" "Not too long for two people who love
each other," suggested Peter in a voice which sent the ready color to her
cheeks. "When you are married you will want a golden wedding, won't you?" "I
wonder," her lips murmured perversely, although her heart told her with one big
beat that she would, she most certainly would, want a golden wedding. "I know,"
insisted Peter. "Come on in and help me find some breakfast. I haven't had a
thing to eat since last night," piteously. "We have!" Joan was triumphant. "We
had strawberries and toast and eggs and coffee!" "Greedy!" Peter made a face at
her. "I hope you didn't eat all the strawberries, nor all the eggs, nor all the
toast!" CHAPTER XII

Rebecca Mary and Joan sat beside Peter while he ate his strawberries and his
eggs and toast and bacon. Rebecca Mary poured two cups of coffee for him in a
demure little way which Peter found quite enchanting, and his eyes told her so
as they followed her to the other side of the table. But there was nothing
sentimental to Joan in the fact that Rebecca Mary had poured Peter two cups of
coffee. She found it only interesting, and her eyes grew big when Peter broke a
third egg. "Gentlemen hold a lot more than ladies, don't they?" she asked with
frank interest. "Granny only ate berries and toast and drank half a cup of
coffee, and you, dear Miss Wyman, had an egg with your toast and coffee and so
did I, but Mr. Simmons already has eaten----"

"Spare me the list of my victories," begged Peter. "And bear in mind, Friend
Joan, that men are hard working creatures who have to be well stoked to do their
job." "But ladies work, too." Joan objected to such sex discrimination. "I've
seen them, haven't I, Miss Wyman?" "You have unless you kept your eyes shut,
which is what so many of our busy gentlemen do," twinkled Rebecca Mary. "If you
are quite sure you won't have another cup of coffee, Mr. Simmons, I'll run up
and see if Granny is awake and tell her the surprise that is waiting for her."
But Granny was still asleep under the rose strewn coverlet, and Rebecca Mary
slipped out as quietly as she had slipped in. Peter had finished his breakfast
when she returned to the dining room, and they all walked out to the garden
where he smoked a cigarette. "But you know Granny can't stay here without
sending word to grandfather," insisted Peter. "Why can't she?" "Why can't she?"
Peter stared as if Rebecca Mary should have known better than to waste words on
such a question. "My grandfather adores my grandmother, Miss Wyman, although he
does tease her to death, and he'll worry his old gray head off if he doesn't
know where she is." "Mrs. Simmons left a message with Pierson." "That she had
gone to Seven Pines. When grandfather calls up Seven Pines Granny won't be
there. No, she must send him a message at once." "You can't send any messages
from Riverside. Major Martingale told us so most emphatically." "I rather guess
we could get a word to old Peter Simmons if we went about it in the right way."
Young Peter seemed much amused to hear that she imagined that they couldn't.
"Don't you know----" he began, and then he laughed and stopped short. Rebecca
Mary knew, of course, that he had meant to tell her what an important man his
grandfather was, and she liked him the better for breaking his sentence off in
the middle and not boasting. He chuckled to himself several times as he walked
with Rebecca Mary through the garden which was such a riot of gorgeous color,
around the flower-bordered pool, by the old lichen-studded sun dial and through
the green wreathed pergola to the river bank, where Peter forgot his
grandparents as he remembered his history and told Rebecca Mary the legend the
Indians had written on the big rock on the other side. It was a gruesome tale,
and Joan shook in her small shoes. Rebecca Mary would have shivered in her
larger oxfords if she had not remembered that the gruesomeness was some two
hundred years old. They had a most delightful morning and strolled back when
they heard the clang of a big bell, a bell which Peter told Joan talked of
absolutely nothing but food. "The mechanics are quartered in the farmhouse," he
explained. There was one word in his sentence which reminded Rebecca Mary that
she was a member of Granny's detective bureau, and she looked up quickly. "Just
what is this experiment which is going to mean so much to the world?" she asked
with serpent guile. The minute she had seen young Peter Simmons she knew that
Major Martingale's story was true, but she should like to know more of his
experiment. She had no doubt Peter would tell her more. Peter squirmed uneasily.
He wanted to tell her what he knew but a man's tongue is sometimes tied. "I'm
sorry," he said as Wallie Marshall had said earlier in the morning. "But we
aren't allowed to breathe a word. We're under oath, you know. Can't run the risk
of any leak." "You don't trust me?" For just a second Rebecca Mary threatened to
be injured or indignant. Peter held his breath. "Never mind!" She decided to
smile, and Peter drew a sigh of relief. "It must have something to do with
aëroplanes----"

"I'm not here as an aviator," Peter told her quickly, and then seemed sorry that
he had spoken. "You're not?" But as Peter refused to say in what capacity he was
at Riverside she went on rather scornfully; "I suppose it has nothing to do with
chemistry or electricity, either, although Mr. Marshall told me he was one kind
of an engineer and Mr. Barton was the other." "The dickens he did!" Peter
grinned at her powers of deduction. "I dare say I'll know all about it in time."
Rebecca Mary tossed her head with a fair show of indifference. "That is if there
is anything to know. Come, Joan, I'm sure Granny is awake now." "I say, you're
not angry with me?" Peter did not see why he should be intrusted with secrets
which would make Rebecca Mary angry with him. He caught her hand. She looked
down at the five fingers which rested on Peter's broad palm and then up at his
face, and to his delight there was no anger in her eyes, nothing but the most
innocent surprise. "Why should I be angry?" And when he didn't tell her she went
on lightly: "Of course, I should want to know anything I shouldn't know, any
girl would, and equally, of course, you must keep your oath, but----" She
shrugged her shoulders and took her fingers away from Peter. "I see," muttered
Peter ruefully as he followed her. But he didn't see at all. They found Granny
awake, and on the terrace. She was surprised to see Peter for she had not
believed a word of Rebecca Mary's dream, and she asked him at once if Major
Martingale's story were true or should she and Rebecca Mary run away and warn
Joshua Cabot that queer things were taking place at Riverside? There was no
beating about the bush with Granny. She did not hesitate a second, and she
looked very crestfallen when Peter told her that Major Martingale had told
nothing but the truth. "You'd never believe how important the experiment is nor
how much Germany wants it," he said. "Old Martingale has to be suspicious and
careful. He can't trust any one who isn't on oath. You were lucky you weren't
shot at sunrise. No, you can't do a thing but stay until the Major lets you go.
I'm glad you're here. It will make it pleasanter for me," he explained with a
grin. "Although I'll confess that I didn't realize that things were on quite
such a military footing. I didn't bring you here to be locked up but because I
thought it was safer than to leave you on the high road. I didn't know you would
have to stay," he insisted. "Better send a message to grandfather," he told his
grandmother. She shook her head. "I can't. I'm not allowed to send messages to
any one." "I'm sure I can get old Martingale to let you write a letter." There
was a funny twinkle in Peter's eyes as he told what he could do. But Granny just
shook her head again. "It won't do your grandfather any harm to worry about me
for a while. He has been too sure of me, and I've been too good-natured. You
know yourself, Peter, that we never would have left Waloo if we hadn't gone
before he came home. I made allowances for him during the war, but that is over.
No, Peter, I'm just full of things it wouldn't be safe to say to him now. I want
a peaceful golden wedding, so I'll just stay where Fate has put me. If he were
to come here and ask me what I want for a golden wedding present I'm afraid I
should lose my temper. Why, we've talked of it hundreds of times and he should
know. Perhaps it is a little thing, Peter, but you're old enough to know that
life is made up largely of little things and they must be right. The big things
come so seldom that we can overlook the wrong in them." "Grandfather's an
awfully busy man just now," Peter began, but she would not let him finish.
"That's what I've been told for fifty years, and I've overlooked a lot because
he was so busy and so important. But I rather think I'll be important for a
while now. No, Peter Simmons, and if you say anything to Major Martingale I
shall be cross. I don't know why I feel this way, I never did before, but I do
feel that I can't be teased now. There is no use arguing with me. You might as
well save your breath." "It's all wrong," Peter grumbled to Rebecca Mary the
minute they were alone. "Grandfather shouldn't have this private worry when he
has so much public responsibility. Women have no sense of proportion." "How can
they have any when men have so much?" Rebecca Mary spoke as if there was just so
much sense of proportion in the world and the men had taken it all. She showed
how sarcastic she could be in a few words. "I don't blame Granny a bit, but I'll
give you a little advice. If you leave her alone she will agree with you a lot
sooner than if you argue with her. That's the way I manage the children and it
succeeds nine times out of ten." "I'll bet it does!" Peter was all admiration as
he heard her method. "All right, I'll stop badgering the old dear--for a while
anyway. Come and have a try at tennis. I'll wager you play a good game." Rebecca
Mary did not play a good game,--how could she when she had had so little
practice?--but she obediently followed Peter to the court and let him knock
balls toward her. She made up in effort what she lacked in skill. She jumped up
to hit a ball, which flew high above her head and struck it in such a way that
it bounded from the court and went off at a tangent to strike the shoulder of a
man who was hurrying to the house. He stopped and swung around to throw the ball
back to the court. "Oh!" Joan gave a shriek. "It's my father! It's my own
father!" And she dashed to him as fast as her two feet would take her. He met
her half way and caught her in his arms. Rebecca Mary and Peter drifted toward
each other. "I thought her father was dead!" exclaimed Peter. "Oh, no!" Rebecca
Mary was dying to turn and look at Count Ernach de Befort but she was withheld
by a fine delicacy from staring at Joan's father. Joan brought him across the
court at once, clinging to his hand. "I've found him!" She was tremulously
triumphant. "I'm the first to find what we came for. This is my own father, dear
Miss Wyman." Her own father took the hand which Miss Wyman offered him and
clasped it warmly. Now that she could see more than his back, Rebecca Mary felt
rather than knew that Joan had not drawn him from her imagination. He was very
different from the father in the photograph, older and more serious. There was a
tired, worn look in the face which showed where Joan had found her black eyes
and broad forehead and he had an absent-minded, detached air which explained how
he had been able to leave his little daughter alone in Waloo with a housekeeper.
He drew his heels together as Rebecca Mary had seen German officers draw their
heels together in the movies, and Rebecca Mary caught her breath for she
remembered the Prussian uniform he had worn in his photograph, the German eagle
on his breast, and she remembered also that Major Martingale had said no Germans
were to be at Riverside. "I cannot understand," he said, bewildered and
surprised as he tried to follow Joan's incoherent explanation, and although his
English was quite correct there was a foreign intonation which Rebecca Mary
found fascinating for it told her that Joan might be right and her father might
really be Count Ernach de Befort. Counts of any nationality were a novelty to
Rebecca Mary. She had not met one of them in the third grade of the Lincoln
school. She assisted Joan to explain that Mrs. Muldoon had been called away by
the illness of her son and had left Joan with her teacher. "She loaned me,
daddy," emphasized Joan. "I'm so glad she did." But Joan's father frowned as if
he were not glad that his only daughter had been loaned to any one, and the
explanation went on to state how they had come to Riverside. "And we're
prisoners!" exclaimed Joan. "Are you a prisoner, too, daddy?" "The same kind of
a prisoner that you are. Isn't that right, Mr. Befort?" laughed Peter. Rebecca
Mary breathed easier. If Peter laughed that way it must be all right for
Frederick Befort to be at Riverside. Frederick Befort smiled as if he thought it
would be very pleasant to have his daughter and her teacher fellow prisoners at
Riverside before he said that he was one of the men working on the great
experiment. "I am surprised at Mrs. Muldoon," he went on with a frown. "She has
been so honest and faithful that I was sure I could trust her to take care of
Joan until I returned. My work here I could not leave to another. You know----"
He looked at Peter. Peter nodded. "Sure, I know." And he put his hand on the
older man's shoulder. Yes, decided Rebecca Mary, it must be all right. "Funny I
never connected you with the kid, for Befort isn't a common name. I guess I was
so interested in your job I never thought of you as a father." "I have,"
confessed Rebecca Mary impulsively. "I've thought of you a lot. Because we knew
so little," she hastened to explain when Frederick Befort looked surprised to
hear that he had occupied so many of Rebecca Mary's thoughts. "Granny Simmons
and I have searched the map of Germany for Echternach, the place Joan said you
came from, but we couldn't find it anywhere. We began to think that Joan had
made up the name." "You searched all Germany?" asked Frederick Befort, putting
his fingers over Joan's lips as she tried to tell them that she hadn't made up
the name of Echternach. "No wonder you could not find it. It is a small place,
Miss Wyman, but old, very old. One of your English saints, Willibrod, came there
in the seventh century as a missionary. You should have looked down in the
southern part of Germany"--Rebecca Mary was conscious of a feeling of
disappointment. So Granny was right and he was a German--"to the very edge of
Rhenish Prussia until you found the river Sure, and on the other side of that
river you would have discovered Echternach. But it is not in Prussia, it is in
the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg." He drew himself up proudly as he told her where
Echternach was. "Oh?" Rebecca Mary could not say another word to save her soul.
She could only look at him with the pinkest of cheeks. "I was so afraid that you
were a German!" she told him honestly. The laughter left his lips and a grave
light took the place of the smile in his eyes. "No, Echternach is not in
Germany. It is not strange that you thought it was, Miss Wyman. And if you
traveled in our duchy you often would be puzzled to know whether you were in
Germany or in France. German is spoken almost as much as French and we used
German money. But a German regiment was garrisoned in Luxembourg for fifty years
and we have not forgotten. Germany tried to swallow us as she tried to swallow
so many principalities, but Luxembourg would not be swallowed. Can you repeat
for Miss Wyman our national hymn, _ma petite_?" he said to Joan. "The words the
Cathedral bells ring out every other hour for fear we shall forget them. Now
then." His voice prompted Joan's as they repeated the Luxembourg anthem:

"_Mîr welle jô kê Preise gin;   Mîr welle bleime wat mor sin!_"

"That means we shall never become Prussians. We shall remain what we are," he
translated, and his eyes flashed. Rebecca Mary's eyes were larger than any
saucer as she gazed at him. She had known Russians and Italians and Bohemians
and Roumanians and Serbians, she had taught children of almost every
nationality, but she had never met a Luxembourger before, and she tried to
remember something of the grand duchy. But she couldn't remember a thing. "Joan
should have told you." Frederick Befort did not understand why she should look
so pleased. "You have been away from your native country many months,
_mignonne_, but you have not forgotten which side of the Sure was your home?"
"No," wriggled Joan. "But no one knows of Luxembourg and the grand duchess, and
every one knows of Germany and the old kaiser." "Alas, that it is so!" Frederick
Befort shook his head sadly before he looked at Rebecca Mary and said, oh, so
feelingly: "I cannot understand how Mrs. Muldoon could desert my little girl,
but I am grateful to the good God that he sent her such a friend in you. I
cannot thank you for your heavenly kindness to my little daughter." And before
Rebecca Mary realized what he was doing he had taken her hand and kissed it. If
it had thrilled Rebecca Mary to have her fingers kissed by fat Mrs. Klavachek
you may imagine how shaken inwardly she was to have them kissed by Count Ernach
de Befort. "It wasn't anything," she stammered, wishing for goodness' sake that
she could think of something clever to say. "It was everything!" he insisted,
gazing into her eyes. "Aren't you glad I found my daddy, Miss Wyman!" Joan was
jumping up and down as she clung to her father's hand. "But I'm sorry you
haven't found any payment for your memory insurance," she went on regretfully.
"Oh, but I have!" Rebecca Mary forgot to be shy because a Luxembourg count had
kissed her fingers, and she laughed. "I've found a tremendous payment!" CHAPTER
XIII

Granny was very much surprised when they trooped in to tell her that a tennis
ball had just found Joan's father, and that he was not a German but a good
Luxembourger. The width of a river had kept him from being a German. Granny knew
little more of Luxembourg than Rebecca Mary, but she "oh'd" and "ah'd" before
she looked at Frederick Befort and said slowly:

"You are quite sure you are from the Luxembourg side of that river?" Frederick
Befort's eyes never wavered as he looked at her. "Quite sure. There was a time
when I regretted that I did not belong on the other side of the river. You know
I went to school in Germany, in Bonn, and I had many German friends. The old
emperor was a friend of my grandfather's. I was named for him; and the present
emperor has visited us at Echternach." "That is why he made you an eagle, isn't
it?" Joan broke in, eager to have a share in these interesting explanations.
"Indirectly, yes." He smiled at her as she stood beside him. "I was able to
arrange a very successful wild boar hunt and the kaiser was so pleased that he
decorated me. He was with us for several days and made excursions all over the
duchy. It was as if he wished to learn every road and mountain path. We thought
nothing of it then, fools that we were! I even put on the Prussian uniform of
one of the officers and wore it at the costume ball that my wife gave in his
honor." So that was why he had been photographed in a Prussian uniform. Rebecca
Mary's eyes crinkled. "There always has been a close relation between Luxembourg
and Germany," he went on, and a frown chased the smile from his face. "Before
our present grand duchess came to the throne German influence was supreme, most
of our trade was with Germany, our railroads were developed with German money
and by Germans, but in our hearts we had no love for Germany. And then came the
day when the German army would have marched through the duchy and our grand
duchess, brave little Marie Louise Adelheid, motored out to forbid them to use
her country as a thoroughfare. She had her car turned across the road to bar
their entrance, and the German officers laughed at her. Laughed at her, madame!
They told her to go home. What could Marie Louise Adelheid do? We had an army of
three hundred, only a palace guard and a military band," he laughed bitterly.
"We were not soldiers, we were farmers. Germany knew that. And our little grand
duchess had to go home. It would have been useless to resist. Germany would have
devastated Luxembourg as she devastated Belgium. But I have it in my heart to
wish that we had resisted, that we had fought and died as the Belgians did. The
Germans have used Luxembourg as they pleased. For fifty years our capital was
garrisoned by German troops. They left an odious memory and the German soldiers
who have swarmed over the duchy since 1914 are even more odious. No, madame, you
need not ask. No people hate Germany as do we of Luxembourg." His words sounded
brave and true, and his face looked brave and true. His eyes flashed fire. It
was easy to believe that he would rather have fought and died than to have
yielded to the German hordes. "We are small," he said more quietly, "but we are
rich. Germany wanted us, she wanted our iron, our factories, but she did not get
them. No! You see, madame, I have changed my mind. I no longer believe that I
was born on the wrong side of the Sure. I thank God now that there is no German
blood in my veins!" "You should," nodded Granny, "Men of German blood, and
women, too, will have to pay a fearful price for their nationality, the price of
a world hatred. That is a dreadful thing, to be hated by a whole world." She
shivered as she thought what a dreadful thing it would be. "How can it be
otherwise?" Frederick Befort shrugged his shoulders. "If you had seen what I
have seen----" He broke off with a shudder. Granny leaned forward and put her
hand on his. "It is strange that we should find you here," she said after a
moment. "Providence has queer ways of bringing people together. It would have
seemed easier to have introduced us that afternoon we were all in the Viking
room at the Waloo." "On my birthday," Joan whispered to her father, "Miss Wyman
was there and Granny Simmons and young Mr. Simmons, and, oh, everybody." "It
might have been easier but would it have been as thrilling?" Rebecca Mary was
almost faint from the thrills of the afternoon. "We might never have had such
wonderful times if we had met that day at the Waloo." She drew a long breath as
she thought of the wonderful times which had followed that tea hour. Granny
smiled at her, so did young Peter and Frederick Befort, and unconsciously they
all promised Rebecca Mary more wonderful times. Enthusiasm does make people so
much more generous than quiet acceptance. "Then, perhaps Joan is right and you
are really Count Ernach de Befort?" laughed Granny. "We thought the child was
romancing." "Yes, in Luxembourg I am a count but in America I like best to be
just Mr. Befort." And Mr. Befort looked almost apologetic. For the first time in
her life Rebecca Mary knew what it was to be a popular girl. As she had told
Granny, since she had been in Waloo she had known no men over eight years of age
and while the boys in her third grade were interesting and dear they were young.
Here at Riverside, where she was a prisoner, Rebecca Mary found three most
attractive men of exactly the right age, Peter Simmons, Wallace Marshall and
George Barton, and one very fascinating older man, Frederick Befort, who was a
count in his own country, a country which Rebecca Mary scarcely knew by name.
Busy as the men were over the experiment which was to be such a boon to the
world, they found many hours in which to walk with Rebecca Mary, to play tennis
with her, to talk with her, to dance with her while the victrola played a new
fox trot, or to ride with her around the farm on the fat horses which Peter
borrowed from the farmer. Each one of them showed Rebecca Mary very plainly that
there was no other girl in his world, as indeed there wasn't just then, and
Rebecca Mary, to her undying astonishment, discovered that she could flirt and
play one man against another as well as any woman. She scarcely had time to
record the payments on her memory insurance policy she was so busy making them.
And if the three younger men admired her for her youth and sex and gay
enthusiasm, Frederick Befort revered her for her kindness to Joan. When he was
not absorbed in the experiment or at the shop, where he worked with a detached
interest to the world around him, which would have made Granny and Rebecca Mary
understand many things about Joan which they had not understood, he had to think
of what might have happened if Rebecca Mary had not accepted the loan of Joan.
His gratitude was sometimes embarrassing and always thrilling to Rebecca Mary,
who often had to pinch herself to make sure that she really was Rebecca Mary
Wyman. She told herself a dozen times a day that, of course, it was because she
was the only girl at Riverside that every one was so perfectly wonderful to her,
but she liked to pretend that it was because she was so beautiful and
fascinating. At heart Rebecca Mary was not a bit conceited. Her life never had
let her accumulate enough vanity to balance on the point of a pin. And if you
had told her that really she was very pretty and very charming she would have
laughed at you. She liked them all, even old Major Martingale, whom she had
identified as the short, stout, red-faced man who had consumed such quantities
of hot buttered toast that afternoon at the Waloo. She discovered that Wallie
Marshall and George Barton had been in the tea room on that memorable afternoon
also and it did seem strange, as Granny had said that Fate should bring them
together again in this fashion. Never for a moment did Rebecca Mary suspect that
Major Martingale had slipped the four-leaf clover into her hand, but she did
wonder if one of the others had. She did not want to ask them outright, that
would have ended, perhaps spoiled, the delightful mystery. She would have to
wait and the waiting was proving very enjoyable. Once Rebecca Mary had hoped
that it was Peter who had given her the talisman but now she wished it was
Frederick Befort. It would be so romantic when she was sixty to remember that it
had been Count Ernach de Befort. Dear me, but Rebecca Mary was glad that Cousin
Susan had been so foolish as to spend her kitchen curtains for two cups of tea.
And while Rebecca Mary was the belle of Riverside, Granny took the rest cure.
"It's a heaven sent chance," she told Rebecca Mary and Peter. "I was in such a
whirl all through the war that I'm still wound up in a hard knot. I'm sorry we
didn't get to Seven Pines but I'll just rest here for a few days and perhaps
I'll be in a good condition to enjoy my golden wedding." "Grandfather----" began
Peter, but she cut him short. "Don't say grandfather to me, Peter Simmons. When
you've been married fifty years less a few weeks you'll understand more than
your grandfather ever understood if I know anything of the modern girl. Won't
he, Rebecca Mary?" "I don't know how much his grandfather understands." Rebecca
Mary was proving every day what a help she would be to a diplomatic corps. "He
doesn't understand anything about women," grumbled Granny. She did not come down
to breakfast but let Rebecca Mary take a tray to her room and after she had
eaten her berries and toast and drunk her coffee she exchanged her bed for a
couch in the sun room, where she dozed until luncheon, when she appeared in the
dining room to be received like a queen. A nap over a novel filled the
afternoon, and after dinner she always played three games of double Canfield
with Major Martingale, who frowned blackly over the first game, was puzzled at
the second and smiled broadly at the third, which Granny always let him win.
"That keeps him in a good humor," she explained to Rebecca Mary. "Men have to be
managed even over a game of cards." She took Rebecca Mary over the house and
showed her the original part which had been built by the great grandfather of
Richard and Joshua Cabot. "He was one of the big pioneers of the northwest," she
said. "He came from Pennsylvania in the early forties as an Indian trader. Later
he went into the transportation business. He used wagons first, those queer Red
River carts. You've seen them at state celebrations?" Rebecca Mary nodded. She
remembered the quaint two-wheeled squeaky carts if she didn't remember the
Cabots. "Old Mr. Cabot built here when the state was still a territory, and from
an historical standpoint I suppose there isn't a more interesting house in the
northwest. Councils of war, political rallies, balls, celebrations of every sort
were held in these rooms. He entertained all the important people who came to
the northwest. His wife was the daughter of a rival French trader, and Joshua
Cabot's grandfather was prouder of his French blood than he was of what his
father had done to open up a new country. I think Richard is like the old
Pennsylvanian," she went on thoughtfully. "More so than Joshua or any of the
others. I expect he will do something big some day." "I should say he has done
something big already," exclaimed Rebecca Mary, rather surprised to find herself
championing Richard Cabot. "There aren't many men of his age who are vice-
presidents of a bank like the First National. And Peter told me how splendid he
was at selling Liberty bonds." "That's true," admitted Granny soberly, and she
carefully hid the twinkle in her eyes from Rebecca Mary. "And banks and bonds
are not the only things that interest Richard. I used to think they were. But
they're not." "Yes?" questioned Rebecca Mary politely, but she was too polite,
and too unconcerned. Granny refused to tell her what, with stocks and bonds,
shared Richard's interest. Rebecca Mary had to guess what Granny meant. It was
astonishing how often they talked of Richard, or would have been astonishing if
they had not been prisoners in Richard's great-grandfather's old house. No one
came to Riverside as one day ran after another. They were quiet and restful days
for Granny, but far from quiet or restful to Rebecca Mary and Joan. Joan made
friends with the farmer's wife and the farmer's eight months' old baby and a
maltese cat, and she deserted Rebecca Mary for the farmhouse. There were
chickens at the farmhouse which Joan was allowed to feed if Mrs. Erickson did
not have to say "don't" too many times, and a shaggy dog and a flock of young
turkeys as well as the baby, which Joan was permitted to hold if she was sure
that her hands were clean. Bread and milk may be a healthy change from lobster à
la Newburg and chiffonade salad, but to a palate accustomed to the rich food a
simple fare soon palls. Before many days Granny began to feel so rested that she
was not satisfied to lie in the sun room and doze. She began to wonder what old
Peter Simmons was doing, what he had said when Pierson delivered her message the
night he came home on the eleven fifty-five and found her gone, and to wonder
last of all if she had been wise to run away. Her conscience began to prick and
prick hard. At last she went to Sallie Cabot's pretty writing table. "My dear
old Peter," she began, "of course Pierson told you that I       had left for
Seven Pines with a couple of young friends. I did not       wait to see you for
several reasons. If you take time to think you       will know why I felt that I
had to go to Seven Pines just now. Do       take care of yourself. I shall die
if anything should happen to       spoil our golden wedding. I've looked forward
to it for over fifty       years." She signed herself "Your affectionate wife,"
with a little grunt and sigh and then she carefully tore the "Riverside" mark
from the paper. She folded her letter and put it in a plain envelop, which she
inclosed in a second envelop, which was addressed to the housekeeper at Seven
Pines. She gave the letter to Peter and told him that as he had bothered her so
unceasingly she had written to his grandfather and the letter could be sent if
it could go by way of Seven Pines. Peter seemed quite sure he could have it sent
that way. "Good work, Granny!" He patted her shoulder approvingly. "You won't be
sorry," he promised. "I hope I shan't," sighed Granny. "She's a good old sport,"
Peter told Rebecca Mary when he had his turn for a dance or a walk and they
chose a walk down by the river. "I honestly didn't think she'd do it, but she
did. Of course----" He stopped suddenly and called her attention to the
hollyhocks, like pink and white sentinels. Rebecca Mary was not to be diverted
by pink or white hollyhocks. "Yes? You were saying----"

"Nothing, that is, nothing of any consequence," he told her hurriedly. "I say
what was old Wallie telling you before dinner that made you both howl? I haven't
heard a good joke for some time and that must have been a scream from the way
you two chortled." But if Peter wouldn't tell her she wouldn't tell him. "I
don't feel at liberty to repeat Mr. Marshall's jokes," she said very loftily.
"Now you're testy and it isn't my fault. I say, you know, you're not the girl
you were in Waloo," reproachfully. "You wouldn't have exploded at nothing in
Waloo," he complained. It was only the truth. Rebecca Mary was not the same girl
she had been in Waloo. She knew it as well as he did and laughed triumphantly.
She was so glad she was not that old scowling shabby Waloo girl. The soft low
laugh rather went to Peter's head. He put out his hand and took Rebecca Mary's
fingers in his warm palm. "I say," he began a bit huskily, "you shouldn't look
at a fellow like that. You--you----"

"Yes?" Rebecca Mary dared him with a racing heart. "Hi there, Simmons! Miss
Wyman!" shouted a voice behind them and there was Wallie Marshall, all
indignation. "You think a fat lot of yourself, don't you?" he said to Peter with
some heat, "to run off with all the partners at this dance. What do you think
you are? Come this way, Miss Wyman. I found a corking place among the willows
this afternoon when I was fishing. Let us see how it looks by moonlight." "It
looks beautiful," Rebecca Mary told him when they had found the corking place.
She had been rather glad to run away with him from Peter. As soon as she had
dared Peter she was sorry, afraid, for a girl never knows what will happen when
she dares a man. "All shined up with the best silver polish. It should be
inhabited by fairies." "I guess there isn't any fairy that has anything on you,"
stammered Wallie. "You make a fellow like me feel so clumsy and rough." "Clumsy!
Rough! You!" The three exclamations told his scarlet ears that Rebecca Mary did
not think he was either the one or the other. He drew closer. "I say, you're a
wonder, all right. My word!" He drew a deep breath. "But I'm glad you dropped in
here. Just imagine if we had never met!" He couldn't imagine it. It was too
horrible. "We might have run across each other somewhere else," suggested
Rebecca Mary. "The Waloo tea room perhaps. Strange things have happened there."
She giggled as she remembered one of the strange things. He shook his head. "No
other place would be like this, where I can see such a lot of you. I hope you
don't think it's too much?" He was seized with a sudden fear. "I don't bore you,
do I?" She assured him that he didn't. He hadn't bored her for a second. He
beamed, but he could not leave well enough alone. "Then you like to be with me
as much as with Simmons?" he asked jealously. "Don't incriminate yourself, Miss
Wyman," advised George Barton, who had come up behind them. "Cut along, Wallie.
You're through." "Through!" shouted the indignant Wallie. George turned away
from him. "Strange effect the moonlight has, Miss Wyman. See that bush over
there? Doesn't it cast a shadow like a fool's-cap on the head of our friend,
Wallie?" She laughed, she couldn't help it, and when he heard her Wallie groaned
and walked away. "This is better." George twisted himself on the garden seat so
that he could look up into Rebecca Mary's dimpling face. "Gee, but we have had a
day!" "Didn't things go well?" Rebecca Mary knew no more about the work which
took the men over to the shop and sent them back to her than she did the day she
had come to Riverside, but she always was interested to hear them mention it.
"Oh, yes, well enough, but don't let's talk about that now that I have found the
girl and the time and the place. Moonlight is awfully becoming to you, Miss
Wyman, you should always wear it. It makes you shimmer and sparkle." "Too bad I
can't buy a few yards to put away." "You don't really need it. I've seen you
sparkle quite fetchingly in the sunlight. You know you're different from any
girl I ever knew," he went on with a curious wonder that he had found Rebecca
Mary so different. "In what way?" Rebecca Mary always had thought that she was
different and, oh, how she wanted to be like other girls. "In what way?" he
repeated as if it should be as plain to her as it was to him. "Why, other girls
--other girls are just nowhere beside you!" "Oh!" Rebecca Mary was quite willing
to be unlike other girls in the way described by his deep drawn breath and
flushed face, but she looked at him provokingly and murmured sadly: "That might
be taken in two ways." Before he could tell her that it most certainly could be
taken in but one way, Joan pushed through the shrubbery to announce excitedly
that Ben had made some ice cold lemonade and if they wanted any they had better
run, for Mr. Marshall said he was thirsty from his head to his heels, and Mr.
Marshall was six feet three inches tall and the lemonade pitcher wasn't more
than eighteen inches. Mr. Marshall had said so. A scant eighteen inches, he had
said. "Mercy, mercy, Joan!" Rebecca Mary caught her hand. "Let's fly!" And away
they dashed by the snapdragons, by the foxgloves and the hollyhocks, by the pool
to the rose tangled terrace where the six-foot-three Mr. Marshall waited
triumphantly beside the scant eighteen-inch lemonade pitcher. Frederick Befort
waited there, too, and when Rebecca Mary, pink and breathless, murmured
something about the roses, he drew her into a fragrant corner to tell her of the
wonderful roses which have made Luxembourg famous, for there are roses
everywhere, climbing the garden walls, the houses, the battlements and the
towers. It made her flush and sigh to hear of the beauty of that rose garlanded
city, and suddenly he flushed, too, and began hurriedly to talk of the eight
hundred primary schools in which education is compulsory, for education is much
thought of in the little duchy. And later, oh, much later, as Rebecca Mary
brushed her hair before the mirror, she told her smiling reflection that she
never had realized what a fascinating subject education could be. CHAPTER XIV

"Do you know what I am going to do?" Peter demanded gloomily when he found
Rebecca Mary in the pergola overlooking the river at the foot of the garden.
Rebecca Mary was reading a book which she had found in one of the big cases in
Joshua Cabot's grandfather's library. She flushed guiltily when Peter discovered
her and put her book hurriedly behind her, which was no way to hide it from him.
Peter immediately wanted to know what was the matter with her book that she
should put it behind her back when he came in sight, and what was her book,
anyway? A minute later Rebecca Mary had yielded to brute force, and Peter read
the title of the thick volume--"The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg," and then he took
up a small volume which was on the bench beside Rebecca Mary and read the title
of that--"French Grammar." Then and there Peter had taxed her with giving more
of her time and thoughts to Frederick William Gaston Johan Louis, Count Ernach
de Befort, than she did to him, plain Peter Simmons, a former private in the
Lafayette escadrille. "You are always talking education with him. Education!" he
sneered. "Or reading about his blamed little country or studying his blamed,--
no, I can't call the language of the French names. But you know, Rebecca Mary,
that you give him more of your company than you give me." And when Rebecca Mary
just sat there flushed and guilty, Peter went on with great determination, "Do
you know what I am going to do?" Rebecca Mary could truthfully say that she
didn't, she hadn't the faintest idea what he was going to do. "I'm going to take
this many-named count out and drown him. Oh, yes, I know we're forbidden to go
on the river and that Befort is needed at the shop, but I'm going to drown him
just the same. Yes, Rebecca Mary Wyman, that is what I shall do, I'll take him
out on the river and drown him. What does he mean by butting in, anyway? Doesn't
he know that I brought you here to get you away from old Dick Cabot?" "Oh!"
Rebecca Mary was all in a flutter when he spoke of old Dick Cabot. "Doesn't
Befort know that you are my girl?" went on Peter with a frown, although there
was a grin lurking around the corners of his mouth. "Am I?" dimpled Rebecca
Mary, pink to her hair to hear that she was Peter's girl. "Aren't you?" Peter
could answer one question with another as well as any Irishman, and he leaned
closer to see if Rebecca Mary agreed that she was his girl. "And I'm not going
to let another fellow cut me out," he went on sternly. "Marshall and Barton are
bad enough, but I can manage them." "How?" interrupted Rebecca Mary, eager to
hear how Peter was going to manage Wallie Marshall and George Barton. "I'm a
bigger man than they are and a better," Peter explained promptly. "They don't
worry me, but this Befort--I'm bigger than he is, too, but he's romantic, and
all girls fall for romance. I can see that he might have quite a drag with you.
Most girls would rather have a diamond already cut and polished in their
platinum ring than one in the rough. I like old Befort myself, but I'll have to
drown him just the same. Godfrey!" he jumped to his feet and looked down at her.
"There's no time like the present. I'll hunt him up and ask him politely to come
for a little row on the river, and then I'll drown him." Rebecca Mary laughed.
"There used to be an old saying that ran something like this--'First catch your
hare.'" Her eyes danced. It was such fun to hear Peter run on. Not one of the
eight-year-old men she had known in the third grade of the Lincoln school had
ever talked to her like this. Peter grunted scornfully. "Oh, I'll catch him," he
promised confidently. "I have only to stay here with you, and I'll catch him and
drown him." Neither of them knew that just behind the vine wreathed pergola Joan
was playing with the farmhouse kitten which she had borrowed without permission.
She had hesitated between the baby asleep in a chair on the porch and the kitten
asleep on the step and then had wisely chosen the kitten. When she first heard
Peter talking to Rebecca Mary she had not listened to him for the kitten was so
cunning as it played with the string Joan held just out of reach of the four
paws, but when Peter kept on insisting that he was going to drown some one she
had to listen. When she heard who Peter was going to drown she jumped to her
feet, almost on the borrowed kitten, and gasped. Her first impulse was to rush
to Peter and tell him that he couldn't, he just couldn't, drown her father for
liking to talk to Rebecca Mary. If he did that he would have to drown himself
and every one at Riverside and a lot of people at Waloo, for almost every one
liked to talk to Rebecca Mary. He even would have to drown her. And then another
plan slipped swiftly into her startled brain, and her slim legs scarcely touched
the ground as they carried her around the pergola and up through the garden. It
was the greatest luck that just as she passed the tall clump of larkspur she
should see her father coming leisurely toward her. If Joan had been older and in
less haste she would have seen that her father had changed since the day the
tennis ball had found him. He did not look as haggard nor quite as absent-minded
and his shoulders did not sag. He looked just then as if he had come from the
hands of a very good valet. "Eh, Joan," he called when he saw the flash of her
bare knees. "What now? Where are you going in such haste?" Joan threw herself
against him, clasping his legs in her arms, and gasped, "You won't let him drown
you, will you?" she begged. Frederick Befort dropped on the grass beside her and
took her in his arms. "Indeed, no one shall drown me, _ma petite_. Why should
they?" "Then when he asks you to come for a row on the river you won't go, will
you?" Joan went on. "Say you won't?" She gave him a little shake. "I--I don't
want you to be drowned." "And I don't want to be drowned." Frederick Befort
laughed gently as he wiped the tears from her eyes. "Some one has been teasing
you, _mignonne_." "It wasn't to me he said it. It was to Miss Wyman. He said he
could manage Mr. Marshall and Mr. Barton, but that you were too romantic and he
would have to drown you." To Joan's surprise her father threw back his head and
laughed and laughed. "So," he murmured as he hugged her, "I am romantic, am I?
Miss Wyman----" An odd expression crossed his face as if an odd thought had just
crossed his mind. "You like Miss Wyman, don't you, Joan?" Joan nodded as she
clung to his hand. If Peter drowned her father he should drown her, too. Even if
she did love Miss Wyman she did not want to live without her father. "He said
you were a cut and polished diamond set in platinum," she hiccoughed. "And he
said he was in the rough. That was why he would have to take you in a boat and
drown you, because you were a cut and polished diamond. So I ran just as fast as
I could for I knew if I told you he never could drown you, could he?" Frederick
Befort put his fingers under the eager little face and tipped it up so that he
could kiss the trembling lips. "I don't think Peter wants to drown me, Joan," he
explained gently. "He was speaking figuratively." "What's that?" The new word
had to be explained at once. "What's figure speaking?" Frederick Befort searched
his brain for the right words with which to explain it. "When you ran races with
Miss Wyman and Peter last night you called out that you were flying because you
ran so fast. But you really weren't flying, you know, you just felt as if you
were. Peter Simmons doesn't really want to drown me, he just wants to pretend
that he does." "Oh!" The explanation proved satisfactory, and Joan's lips
stopped trembling to smile. "It won't hurt to do it that way, will it?"
Frederick Befort smiled ruefully. "I'm not so sure. You know, Joan, that Peter
Simmons is young and life is all before him. My life is behind me, the best part
of it." He jumped to his feet as Rebecca Mary and Peter rounded the larkspur.
Peter was carrying the "Grand Duchy of Luxembourg" and the French grammar. Joan
jumped to her feet, too. "I heard what you said," she called triumphantly, "and
I ran to tell my father. Yes, I did, and so you can't drown him now only in your
mind." Peter looked surprised and crestfallen before he laughed. "You saved his
life," he said, tickling Joan's neck. "If you hadn't told him I'd take him right
out now and drown him." Joan shivered and looked quickly from Peter to her "cut
and polished" father, who didn't shiver at all. "Only figuratively, _mignonne_,"
he reminded her. "But he could do it truly, perhaps," she said tremulously, for
Peter did seem so big and resourceful. "He has a war cross for being brave, you
know." "He received that for saving people, not for drowning them," Frederick
Befort said swiftly. "I envy you that, Peter," he added gravely. Peter nodded.
"I hadn't thought of it like that. It is good to think that I helped save, but
when you get down to brass tacks that's what all the fellows were doing," he
went on quickly. "They saved the world, ideals, freedom, everything that makes
life worth while." "Yes, you are right. Have you been studying your lesson, Miss
Wyman?" Frederick Befort took the French grammar from Peter's hand. "Are you
ready to recite it? Let us go down by the river." And before Peter could say
"booh" he had taken Rebecca Mary and the grammar both away from him. Peter
looked after them and his jaw dropped. "Well, I'll be darned!" he muttered "You
bet I'll have to drown that man." CHAPTER XV

Rebecca Mary had walked over to the farmhouse for Joan, but Joan was feeding the
chickens and just couldn't come at once, so Rebecca Mary sat down on the steps
and talked with Mrs. Erickson until the last downy chicken had been given its
dinner. "My, Miss Wyman, I expect you'll be glad when they're through their work
here and you can leave," Mrs. Erickson remarked sympathetically, as she offered
Rebecca Mary a plate of crispy flaky gooseberry tarts. "It must have been pretty
hard to start for a wedding and find yourself in jail. I know how it is with me.
I never was much of a gadabout, but, land knows, I'll be glad enough when the
guards are taken off, and I can come and go as I please." "It is rather horrid,"
Rebecca Mary carelessly agreed as she ate a gooseberry tart. "But I'm not having
such a bad time really, Mrs. Erickson. It might be a lot worse." "I wish I could
look at it like that. But I ain't one to dwell much on the cheerful side of
things. What's the use, I say, when there's so much that ain't cheerful. I
suppose the old Major knows what he's about, but there's queer things going on
in Riverside, or I miss my guess." Rebecca Mary looked up quickly. "What do you
mean?" she wanted to know at once. Mrs. Erickson looked as if she meant such a
lot. Mrs. Erickson drew a sigh from the sole of her stout shoes and moved closer
to Rebecca Mary, quite ready and willing to tell her what she meant. "Well," she
said in a whisper which blew a lock of Rebecca Mary's yellow brown hair across
her face, "as I understand it, Major Martingale brought all these men down here
to work on his experiment and locked us up with them so he wouldn't be disturbed
or interrupted and so he wouldn't have any Germans nosing around. Wouldn't you
think, then, that he wouldn't want any Germans here? But last night her father,"
she nodded to Joan, who was vainly trying to divide the dinner evenly among the
hungry chickens, "was over here talking to one of the mechanics, George Weiss.
He took him down behind the shed there and talked to him in German. They didn't
know I heard them, but I did. There isn't much that goes on around Riverside
that I don't hear something of. Erickson said talking German don't mean anything
but it does to me. Don't it to you?" "Not much." Rebecca Mary helped herself to
another tart. "My word, but these are good, Mrs. Erickson. No, I don't think it
means anything for Mr. Befort to talk German. He was brought up practically in
Germany." And she told Mrs. Erickson of the Luxembourg town which was just
across the river from Rhenish Prussia. "He hates the Germans," she added, and
her white teeth closed over the crispy flaky tart. "He didn't sound as if he
hated the Germans the way he was talking German. Maybe you're right, Miss Wyman,
you see more of him than I do, but seems to me if I was trying to keep what I
was doing from the Germans I wouldn't have no Germans working with me. Major
Martingale oughta know his business, but I dunno----" She shook her head
dolefully. "And more than once, Miss Wyman," she went on in almost a whisper,
"I've seen Mr. Befort coming up from the river at sunrise. What's he doing down
there I'd like to know? Why ain't he in bed and asleep like the rest of folks?
Swimming may be excuse enough for you but it ain't for me. I don't say he ain't
what he says he is but I must say that under the circumstances it's mighty
queer. I said to George Weiss myself, said I, 'You got a name that sounds like
sauerkraut to me,' said I. 'What side was you on in the late war?' I said. And
he looked at me and laughed and said, 'Now Mrs. Erickson,' said he, 'you know
very well that I was one of Uncle Sam's boys. It wasn't my fault if I didn't get
to France. Maybe my name does have a German sound but the father what gave it to
me didn't stay in Germany. He brought it to America, and his boys are a hundred
per cent American,' he said. But, land, you dunno whether to believe him or not.
A man'll say 'most anything he wants to." And she drew a second sigh from the
sole of her thick shoe. Rebecca Mary should have gasped, but she didn't. She
giggled. "You don't look on the cheerful side of things, do you, Mrs. Erickson?"
"Well, it ain't so easy to be cheerful when you know the world as it really is.
I've had some experience with these I. W. W. Bolsheviks, Miss Wyman. Not here at
Riverside. Land, no! Erickson keeps too good a watch on things, and our men have
been working here long enough to know which side of their bread's buttered. But
I got a brother up in North Dakota and last summer his crops was set on fire and
a new thrashing machine ruined by putting nails and other truck into it. I dunno
who I do trust, Miss Wyman, but it ain't a man who talks enemy language and acts
what I can't understand. I don't blame the Major for being afraid of I. W. W.'s
and anarchists, but what I can't see is the way he trusts some folks. My brother
said the Germans was back of all the trouble in North Dakota, and he's a
truthful man if there is one. Do you know anything about this great work we're
doing here, Miss Wyman?" "Not a thing." Rebecca Mary looked a trifle puzzled.
She was a trifle dazed, also, at the flood of words which had poured from Mrs.
Erickson's lips. "No more do I. And Erickson don't know anything or I'd know.
More'n once I've slipped down beside that shop hoping to pick up a word, but
they don't use language I can understand, and what they're working on don't look
like nothing to me through the window. I don't dare go very close for if the old
Major'd see me he'd be sure to give me a piece of his mind. He's got a harsh
tongue when things don't go his way. I declare, Miss Wyman, when I got so much
to worry me I almost wish Mr. Cabot hadn't been so free with Riverside. I hope
he don't find himself wishing that, too." But she smacked her lips and there was
a greedy look in her eyes which flatly contradicted her words. Rebecca Mary
jumped to her feet and brushed the crumbs of crispy flaky tart from her fingers.
"It's easy to make mountains out of mole hills, Mrs. Erickson," she said
quickly. "But it's rather a waste of time. Major Martingale knows what he is
doing. He isn't blind nor deaf. Come, Joan. Haven't you finished yet? We'll be
late for our own dinner if you don't hurry." "I've just finished." Joan held up
the empty pan and spoon. "It's such fun, Miss Wyman. Isn't it kind of Mrs.
Erickson to let me feed them? But I do think she should teach them better
manners. That big white rooster wants to eat it all. If I hadn't driven him away
the weeny little ones wouldn't have had a bite." Mrs. Erickson snorted. "The big
white rooster is just like some folks," she told Joan. "And if you can teach him
table manners, Miss Joan, you're welcome to the job. I've got enough on my hands
without showing roosters how to be polite." "Isn't she a funny woman, Miss
Wyman?" Joan asked when they had closed the farmhouse gate behind them. "She is
always asking me about daddy. Every day she asks me if he is an American citizen
or if he isn't. And when I asked daddy he said he couldn't be an American
citizen because he isn't through with being another kind of a citizen yet."
"He's a Luxembourger, you know, Joan. Why didn't you tell Mrs. Erickson that?"
"I did, and she just sniffed and said she never heard of such a country. She
sniffs awfully funny, Miss Wyman, but she's kind, too. She gave me a doughnut
and a piece of cheese as well as a gooseberry tart. She said they'd probably
make me sick but I could eat them if I wanted to. And I wanted to, and I wasn't
sick. She makes awfully good doughnuts. I think she must be a good cook. The
chickens liked their dinner awfully much." "Positive proof that Mrs. Erickson is
the perfect cook. None but the best would do for a flock of hungry chickens.
Joan, I'll race you to the house. Wait a minute. Now, one--two--three--Go!" And
they were off, down the driveway, by the lilac bushes to the old oak where Peter
and Wallie, on their way from the shop, stretched a barrier across the walk.
"You must be in a hurry," grinned Peter. "Hold on and we'll ride with you, but
you must have some regard to the speed limit." "Tired?" They did look hot and
tired. "It must be horrid to spend a perfectly gorgeous day like this in a
stuffy shop with a gasoline engine that says nothing but puff-puff. Aren't you
almost through?" "We'll never be through," moaned Wallie. "I expect the Major
will keep us here on the job until we are gray and tottering. You'll be a dear
little old lady then, Miss Wyman." "Silly!" Rebecca Mary tilted her nose. "But,
honest, won't you be through soon? Granny and I have been perfect saints. We
haven't made any fuss at all, but we can't stay here forever. Of course, I don't
know anything about your great experiment----"

"It is great, all right!" interrupted Peter. "The more we work at it the more
sure I am of that. I don't wonder old Germany moved heaven and earth to get hold
of it." When Peter spoke of Germany Rebecca Mary remembered Mrs. Erickson's
gloomy fears and she asked impulsively; "Has Germany given up trying to get your
wonderful secret?" The two men stared at her in surprise. "Don't you know that's
why the Major brought the whole works down here?" Peter asked. "In Waloo the
Huns made trouble more than once, through the mechanics, you know, regular
bolshevik work. You'd never believe how sly they were. That's why Joshua Cabot
turned this place over to the Major, and why the rule was made to bar people,
and why you are here to shed light on our dark way. The Major isn't taking any
chances of having anything stolen from him nor of any dirty sabotage, either,
you may believe me. Every man here had to pass a pretty rigid examination that
went back to his father and his grandfather." "Every man?" Rebecca Mary could
not help but put a little dash of significance into those two words. "Every
one," Peter told her stoutly. "It is only the women who got in without. When I
drove you in here I hadn't any idea how necessary secrecy was. You should have
heard the wigging the Major gave me. Perhaps you have been bored but you've been
a life-preserver just the same, hasn't she, Wallie?" "Sure thing!" Wallie gave a
strong and hearty indorsement to Peter's statement that Rebecca Mary had been a
life-preserver. "I wish we could tell you more about this work, Miss Wyman,
you'd be interested, but we're on oath, you know. You'll just have to trust us
and wait." "M-m," murmured Rebecca Mary. It is so much easier to ask for trust
and patience than it is to furnish it. "You are sure you can trust your men?"
"Why not?" Peter's voice was sharp and quick. "Why not, Rebecca Mary? What do
you mean?" Rebecca Mary laughed uneasily. "I don't suppose it is anything
but----" And she told them what Mrs. Erickson had told her, that Frederick
Befort and George Weiss had been heard talking German behind the Erickson
woodshed, and Mrs. Erickson feared the worst. "Just like a woman," jeered Peter.
"You take my word for it, Rebecca Mary. I guess I know as much about it as old
Mother Erickson. Befort is all right. So is George Weiss. I suppose if I were to
go back of the chicken run and murmur 'hickory dickory dock' Mrs. Erickson would
swear I was a red Russian. You just keep your hair on, Rebecca Mary, and listen
to me. Some day you'll know that I'm right, won't she, Wallie?" "Sure thing,"
Wallie said again. "We didn't run any chance of a leak, Miss Wyman. Believe me,
we have picked men." Rebecca Mary looked from Wallie to Peter. They nodded to
her as if to emphasize what they had told her. Surely they must know more than
Mrs. Erickson, who had only been able to peek through the shop window. Mrs.
Erickson had told her that she always looked on the dark side of things and
naturally she had hunted for a dark side to the great experiment. It was foolish
for Rebecca Mary to look at the dark side when Peter and Wallie were insisting
that there was such a bright and sunny side. "Mrs. Erickson makes awful good
gooseberry tarts and doughnuts," Peter said gently. "But she hasn't much of a
record as a detective." "I didn't really think she had. I'm not a complete
idiot," Rebecca Mary exclaimed with considerable scorn. "But I thought it was
only right to tell you what I heard. Of course, I know that Major Martingale
didn't take any chances. Germany couldn't get a clue now to what you are doing."
"Huh," grunted Peter. "I wouldn't go quite as far as that. I think Germany will
still make a try, don't you, Wallie?" "I do, but don't let's talk about Germany
as if the war was still on; let's guess what Ben is going to give us for dinner.
I'm so hungry I could eat you, Miss Wyman. You'd better not come near me
garnished with any bunch of mint." "Silly!" Rebecca Mary's nose was elevated
disdainfully. "Well, you can't say I have any secrets from you. And Ben is going
to give you roast beef for your dinner, Mr. Marshall. I heard him tell Joan."
"Trust the kid to find out. I rather thought we might have lamb." And Wallie
grinned impudently. CHAPTER XVI

The days flew by as days will fly whether they are bright with diamonds or
veiled in gray. Granny became rested, Joan was spoiled, and even Rebecca Mary
began to feel the effect of too much attention. There had been a time when
Rebecca Mary had thought that it would be perfect bliss to have just one man
devoted to her, but now that she had four she found that she never had a minute
to herself. Whether she wanted to or not she had to play tennis with Wallie
Marshall, walk with George Barton, ride the farmhorses with Peter Simmons,
recite French verbs to Frederick Befort or play accompaniments for Major
Martingale, who still liked to hear the young people sing the old war songs. And
you know how it is yourself if you have just had a generous portion of plum
pudding you don't care to see another plum pudding no matter how holly wreathed
it is. In spite of all the admiration and attention which were falling on
Rebecca Mary like an April shower she was not satisfied; she was conscious of a
vague longing for something, she didn't know what, for she did not analyze the
faint discontent which annoyed her. She only knew that she wanted something
which she did not have and she told herself that she was an ungrateful beast to
ask more of her talisman when already the clover leaf had given her so much. It
was the same way with Granny, who had looked on Riverside when she arrived as a
haven of rest, but she soon was as surfeited with rest as Rebecca Mary was with
admiration. Granny had so little to occupy her mind that she just had to think
of old Peter Simmons, to wonder uneasily what he was doing, to ask herself if he
were thinking of her instead of his factory, if he had received her letter, and
a thousand other things all of which had old Peter Simmons for their subject.
Twice Major Martingale found her with her hand on the door of the room which he
used as an office and which held the only telephone at Riverside and to which he
alone had the key. "Do you wish to leave any message with me?" he asked each
time. "If I said what I wanted to say I expect the message would be left with
you," Granny said sadly. "You never would send it on. How much longer will it be
before we may leave, Major Martingale?" "You know as much about it as I do."
Major Martingale was discouraged just then and was sadly in need of a word of
encouragement. But Granny hadn't enough encouragement for herself; she couldn't
spare a word for any man. "The twenty-second is a week from yesterday," she said
significantly. "I told you, you know, that we wouldn't stay a minute after the
twentieth," she added in case he had missed the significance. "I hope none of us
will have to stay later than the twentieth, but you should have thought of that
before you came." "Came!" Granny was indignant. "I didn't come!" "Well, I didn't
bring you!" He was too exasperated to remember the courtesy which is ever due a
lady. "A perfect bear, my dear," Granny told Rebecca Mary five minutes later.
"If he has his way we'll be here for Thanksgiving," she prophesied gloomily.
Rebecca Mary sat up on the _chaise longue_ where she had hidden herself for a
quiet half hour and stared at her. "Thanksgiving! We can't stay that long. Why,
school begins the first of September!" The beginning of school was an event so
large in the life of Rebecca Mary that everything should give away to it.
Everything always had. "Major Martingale wouldn't care for that. It isn't our
wishes nor our convenience he is thinking of. If we could do anything to help
him I shouldn't say a word. If we even knew anything about this wonderful
experiment it would be different, but we might as well be in New York or Bombay
for all we know of what is going on in that shop. We couldn't tell anything
intelligent enough for even a German to understand. I'm beginning to feel that
the whole thing is nonsense, Rebecca Mary, and so I don't think that we have to
stay. And I'm worried for fear Edith won't order things the way I want them for
my golden wedding. I never meant to stay away so long. I'm sorry we ever started
for Seven Pines. But we can go back. We'll run away from here." "But how can we
run away from Riverside?" It didn't sound as easy to Rebecca Mary as it had to
Granny. "I'll find a way." Granny was not to be daunted. "I'll have to. I'm
tired being a prisoner." "So am I." Joan dropped her doll and came to tell them
that she, too, was ready to leave Riverside. "I'd like to go somewhere else."
"I'm sorry now," went on Granny, "that I didn't stay at home and let old Peter
Simmons ask his tormenting question and take the consequences." "I'm not!"
Indeed, Rebecca Mary wasn't. She had made far too many payments on her memory
insurance policy ever to regret the past few weeks. "You see, we've helped
here," she explained when Granny and Joan had cried, "You're not!" "The boys say
we've been an inspiration to them, that they have worked a lot better because we
were here to cheer them up." "They would have worked a lot faster if we hadn't
been here." There was a dry tone to Granny's soft voice which sent the ready
color into Rebecca Mary's cheeks. "I've no doubt Joan and I have furnished lots
of inspiration. It is pleasant to think so, isn't it, Joan?" Joan looked
doubtful. "Is it the same as being a nuisance? Mrs. Erickson said we were all
nuisances, but I was the biggest. But she never said we were inspirations." "Let
her complain to Major Martingale. Is that only two o'clock?" as the old clock
called to them from the hall. "How many hours are there left until bedtime?"
There was no doubt that Granny was losing patience. It was a warm sultry day,
the sort of a July day which tries the disposition in normal conditions, and by
evening every one was more or less on edge. It showed in the increased
politeness with which they spoke and in the silence which fell over them as they
sat on the terrace under the stars and tried to think that there was a breeze
blowing up from the river. Joan had gone to bed most reluctantly, and her father
was sitting beside Rebecca Mary on the broad balustrade. Peter sat on the other
side so that they made a sandwich of her. And in front of her lounged Wallie in
a steamer chair reciting nonsense rhymes to which she scarcely listened, and not
a yard from Wallie was George Barton singing sentimental verses under his breath
as he touched the strings of a ukelele. Not so many days had passed since
Rebecca Mary would have thought that it would be heaven for a girl to sit on the
terrace balustrade of a beautiful old country place with a Luxembourg count on
one side of her and a _croix de guerre_ man on the other while two very likable
young men were in front of her, but now she was only vaguely conscious that they
were not what she wanted at all. She didn't want any more plum pudding. She
wished irritably that they wouldn't sit so close to her. She wanted all the air
she could get. And her wandering thoughts led her back to where she would be if
she were not at Riverside and that brought her to Cousin Susan and the
mysterious talisman and to--Richard Cabot. When her thoughts reached Richard
they loitered there with a strange little feeling of satisfaction. She knew that
Richard would never have let her remain so uncomfortable on a hot July night.
Richard would have taken her for a swift ride in his big car to some cool place
where ice tinkled in tall glasses. Rebecca Mary was not exactly fair for it was
not the fault of Peter nor Wallie nor George nor even Frederick Befort that she
was not flying over the country road with them. But Rebecca Mary did not want to
be fair. She just wished that Richard were there--she wished----

She startled Peter and Frederick Befort and offended Wallie and George by
jumping to her feet in the middle of Wallie's funniest poem and the most
sentimental of George's songs. But before she could utter a word of explanation
or apology there came the sound of voices and another sound, sharp and clear
like a trumpet. It woke Granny, who was half asleep in her chair. "God bless my
soul!" she exclaimed, and she sat up with a bewildered, almost a frightened,
expression on her face. "No one blows his nose like that but old Peter Simmons.
He must have come for me. Run, Peter!" She was in a panic. "And tell him to stay
in the road. Major Martingale will lock him up if he comes in." CHAPTER XVII

Before the appearance of old Peter Simmons proved the truth of what had sent
Granny into a panic, that the sonorous trumpet was a part of him, Granny had
disappeared. "Where's your grandmother?" old Peter demanded of young Peter at
once, but young Peter couldn't tell him. And when Rebecca Mary went in search of
Granny she had to come back alone for her knock on Granny's door brought no
answer. There was not a sound from Granny's room. "Perhaps she is asleep,"
Rebecca Mary suggested, but she stammered for she was quite sure Granny was not
asleep. Why, it was not five minutes since she had been on the terrace. Old
Peter Simmons looked at her from under the grizzled eyebrows which he drew
together in a frown so deep that Rebecca Mary almost thought he was going to
dash up the stairs and make Granny open the door. "H-m," he said slowly, "I hope
she is asleep. She has had a hard time the last few years; all women have. I'm
glad she had sense enough to come here away from people and things and get a
little rest. We must humor her." He looked at wide-eyed Rebecca Mary for a
second and then turned to young Peter. "If your grandmother has gone to bed we
might as well get to work at once. I want to see just what you men have done.
We'll go right out to the shop. Martingale is already there. Take good care of
my wife!" He stopped in front of Rebecca Mary and spoke in the tone of a man who
was obeyed. "Yes, sir, I shall," stuttered bewildered Rebecca Mary as she stared
from him to young Peter and back again to him. Young Peter Simmons had exactly
the same forehead, the same bright blue eyes, the same, oh, the very same square
jaw. Rebecca Mary was positive as she looked from him to his grandfather that
when young Peter had been married fifty years less a few days he would look
exactly like old Peter Simmons, and probably be exactly like old Peter Simmons,
too. Rebecca Mary caught a startled, a frightened, breath. She was glad to
remember that there had been a twinkle in old Peter Simmons' eye when he had
asked for Granny. She went slowly up the stairs and Joan, like a small ghost in
her white nightie, met her in the hall. "Who is it?" she asked eagerly. "Is it
Santa Claus or Uncle Sam? Granny won't tell me. I asked her through the keyhole,
but she never said a word. I looked out of the window and I could see a man as
tall as Uncle Sam but he didn't wear Uncle Sam's pretty striped clothes. He was
as big around as Santa Claus but he didn't have Santa Claus' bushy whiskers. I
should think, Miss Wyman, dear, you would tell me who he is?" she finished
fretfully. "I shan't tell you anything unless you are in bed before I count
ten," Rebecca Mary said sternly. But when Joan was in bed before Rebecca Mary
had counted six she looked so small and helpless that Rebecca Mary was ashamed
of her impatience and told her quickly that it was not Uncle Sam nor yet Santa
Claus who had arrived with such a flourish of trumpets, but old Mr. Simmons,
Granny's husband and young Peter's grandfather. "Shut your eyes, Joan, and go to
sleep or it will be morning before you know it." "Oh!" Joan had seldom been more
disappointed. "I don't think that's very interesting, do you? Perhaps it is to
Granny," she added with tardy politeness, "but it isn't to me. I'll shut my
eyes, Miss Wyman, but I can't seem to shut my mind to-night, and so I can't go
to sleep. I have to think of Uncle Sam and Santa Claus and the big Mr. Simmons.
It won't be my fault if it is morning before I know it!" she wailed. Altogether
it took some time as well as two songs before Joan could shut her mind as well
as her eyes. Rebecca Mary straightened the counterpane and looked at the flushed
little face on the pillow. When she was asleep Joan looked like an angel.
Rebecca Mary could scarcely believe that she would ever be as irritating as a
mosquito as she patted the black head before she went to her own room. She
crossed to the window and looked down on the garden. A dull puff-puff, the
foolish chatter of a gasoline engine, was the only sound which broke the
fragrant silence, and Rebecca Mary knew that it came from the shop where old
Peter Simmons was being shown what had been done. Now that she had time to think
of it, Rebecca Mary could not understand how old Peter Simmons could come
trumpeting into Riverside when no one was allowed to enter Riverside. It was
shut off from the world and protected by a guard. But old Peter Simmons had
managed to pass the guard, and he had come as a general in command. Was that
because he was the head of a large manufacturing plant or was it because--
because---- It couldn't be possible that old Peter Simmons was the Big Boss of
whom the men spoke with such respect! But if he wasn't the Big Boss why had the
men treated him so deferentially and taken him at once to the forbidden shop?
And he had not been at all surprised to hear that Granny was at Riverside. He
had asked for her at once. Rebecca Mary had to giggle as she stood there in the
fragrant silence and thought what it meant if old Peter Simmons really was the
Big Boss of the Riverside experiment. She was interrupted in the very middle of
another giggle for the door into Granny's room opened suddenly and there stood
Granny, a much perplexed but determined Granny. She wore her hat and motor coat
and carried a bag in one hand and an umbrella in the other. Rebecca Mary
wondered where she had found the umbrella and why she carried it as she stared
at her. "Aren't you ready, Rebecca Mary?" asked Granny in a stage whisper.
"Ready for what?" Rebecca Mary had to laugh even though Granny did wear such a
perplexed face for she had to remember that other night when Granny had come to
her in her hat and motor coat. Granny frowned. "I told you this morning that we
would not stay here any longer. And now that old Peter Simmons has come I simply
must leave at once. You have no idea, Rebecca Mary, what a tease that man can
be. He never would let me forget that I started for Seven Pines and landed a
prisoner at Riverside. If you had been teased for almost fifty years by a man
like old Peter Simmons you'd understand how I feel. And he would be sure to ask
me what I wanted for my golden wedding present. I've told you how I feel about
that question. If I should hear it again I should scream. What is old Peter
Simmons here for anyway? I didn't ask him to come for me. I never told him I was
here. There must have been a leak, just what Major Martingale was afraid of."
But when Rebecca Mary told Granny her suspicions Granny looked at her in
horrified surprise before she nodded her gray head. "I believe you are right,"
she said slowly. "That explains a lot of things I haven't been able to
understand. No wonder young Peter was so sure he could get a letter to his
grandfather. But that makes it just impossible for me to stay another minute,
Rebecca Mary. Imagine what old Peter will say when he hears that I ran away from
him only to run right to him. I haven't the nerves I used to have. The situation
is too ridiculous. Come, we'll just slip away." "I'm afraid they will hear me
take the car out." Rebecca Mary did not think it would be as easy to slip away
as Granny evidently did. "We won't take the car. We each have two feet. We can
climb the fence and once in the road some one is sure to pick us up. I declare I
don't see why we didn't go before. If I had known that old Peter Simmons was the
Big Boss I shouldn't have stayed a minute. We'll go--anywhere!" Granny flung out
her hands, the umbrella and the bag, too, as if she didn't care a picayune where
they went so long as they left Riverside. "If we stay here old Peter Simmons
will be sure to talk to me. He's so resourceful and determined, and he does have
such a way with him. I don't know why I feel like this, Rebecca Mary!" Her
revolt was such a surprise to her that she had to speak of it whenever the
golden wedding was mentioned. "I suppose this is just the last straw. I've been
patient with old Peter Simmons for almost fifty years, but I can't be patient
over my golden wedding present. And I can't be teased, so we must run away
again." "Poor little Granny!" Rebecca Mary slipped an arm around her and hugged
her. Even if she wasn't perfectly contented at Riverside, Rebecca Mary wasn't
sure that she wanted to run away again. She had heard that a bird in the hand is
worth a lot more than one in the bush. If she ran away with Granny she would
leave behind her young Peter and Wallie and George and--and Count Ernach de
Befort. She might never see one of them again. Then she straightened her spine
and her eyes flashed. If she didn't see them again it would be because they
didn't care to see her. They could find her if they really wished to find her.
They had been wonderful to her, and it had been splendid to be a popular girl,
but perhaps they had given her so much devotion and so much attention just
because she was the only girl at Riverside. She had spent a great many minutes
wondering which of them she liked the best. It might be as interesting to learn
which of them liked her the best, to prove if there was anything in the
admiration they had expressed so freely. Which would find her first? Yes, she
would run away with Granny and put them to the test, she decided just as Granny
caught her arm between her fingers and her umbrella and shook her. "Come, come,
Rebecca Mary! Wake up. We must slip away before the men come back from the
shop." "Joan!" exclaimed Rebecca Mary, hesitating, although she had made up her
mind. "We'll leave Joan with her father. That is where a child should be, with
her parents. Come, Rebecca Mary, or I'll go alone." And she crossed the room
alone. Rebecca Mary did not feel exactly comfortable to leave Joan with her
father although she knew that Granny was right when she said a child belonged
with her parents, but she ran after Granny and took the bag from her. She
couldn't let Granny run away alone. The lights were out in the hall, and they
felt their way down the stairs. There was something fearsome in the slow descent
for Granny's hand gripped her hard, and Granny's breath came in short quick
gasps. There was no doubt in Rebecca Mary's mind that Granny really did not want
to be teased by old Peter Simmons. The front door stood wide open so that the
moonlight made a bright splash between the dark walls. Rebecca Mary and Granny
reached the threshold in safety. It only remained to dash across the lawn, climb
the fence and turn up their noses at the authority of fat Major Martingale who
had said no one could leave Riverside. The shrubbery would conceal them for more
than half the way. Granny's hand relaxed, and she stopped breathing like a spent
porpoise. "I do believe we'll make it," she whispered excitedly. And then she
gave a little scream, for out of the shadow made by a white lilac emerged a
short fat figure, and a curt voice asked them where they were going. "Oh, Major
Martingale!" Granny's voice quavered. "I thought you were at the shop with the
other men. Whoever would have expected to meet you here!" "Evidently you
didn't." The Major was all grim suspicion. "May I ask where you are going?"
Granny pinched Rebecca Mary's arm. "It was so warm upstairs that we came down
for a breath of air," she explained with a little sniff of defiance, as though
she dared him to object to their desire for air. "I'm glad you put on your hats
and brought your baggage," remarked the Major coldly, and he glanced
significantly at the umbrella and the bag. "Night air is so deceptive, you can't
tell when you will need an umbrella." He looked at the cloudless sky. "Or extra
clothing." He wiped the perspiration from his hot forehead. "Yes, isn't it!"
Granny emulated Moses and was as meek as meek, butter would not have melted in
her mouth just then. "Come, Rebecca Mary. Good-night, Major Martingale." And
with Rebecca Mary's hand in hers she turned to the terrace as if she really had
come down all hatted and coated for a walk in the moonlight. "If it is so warm
upstairs I shan't go to bed yet." Major Martingale fell in at her other hand.
"I'll walk with you." CHAPTER XVIII

Granny woke in the morning with a headache. Rebecca Mary found her with heavy
eyes and flushed cheeks when she went in to see if she would get up for
breakfast. "I have such a headache," Granny moaned piteously. "Poor dear!"
Rebecca Mary put her fresh cool hand against Granny's hot old face. "Then you
should stay in bed. You mustn't get up for breakfast." "I shan't." Granny was a
model of obedience. "I couldn't," she said with another moan. "I shan't be any
good all day. I always have to stay in bed when I have one of these attacks, and
I just want to be left alone. I don't want to see any one! You can tell old
Peter Simmons that it was worrying over my golden wedding present that gave me
this headache. That should make him ashamed of himself. No, I don't want a thing
but to be left alone." But Rebecca Mary shook up her pillows and smoothed her
bed and pulled down the shades and kissed her hot forehead, and said it was a
horrid shame that she was ill, and she hoped that Granny would be better soon,
and she certainly should tell old Peter Simmons what Granny had said. Then she
tiptoed out and shut the door very softly behind her. Old Peter Simmons was very
sorry to hear that Granny was ill, and he thought she was very sensible to stay
in bed until she was better; he knew those headaches and there was nothing for
them but quiet and rest, but as for the golden wedding present----

"That's nonsense, perfect nonsense!" he declared stoutly. "Can't she trust me?"
Rebecca Mary slowly shook her head. "I think she feels that she has trusted you
and now she isn't sure she can trust herself," she ventured demurely. It was
rather fun for Rebecca Mary to stand before the great Peter Simmons and find
fault with him. "And my past is against me." Old Peter Simmons admitted it
ruefully. "I don't know why it is so confoundedly hard to remember some things.
You women! Can't you learn that an anniversary or a holiday is just a day, just
one of the three hundred and sixty-five which make up a year?" "Anniversaries
and holidays are the decorations of the year," Rebecca Mary told him quickly. He
should have known that without being told. No one had ever had to tell her. Old
Peter Simmons looked at her from under his shaggy eyebrows. "You are all alike,
you women," he grumbled. "And I guess men are pretty much alike, too. Decoration
doesn't mean as much to us. But my wife might remember that I've had a good deal
on my mind the last few years. She has, too," he admitted honestly. "Peter will
never know how many nights his grandmother lay awake worrying about him. She did
too much, all that Red Cross work during the war and all the refugee work after
the war. And now she's worrying over this golden wedding of hers." He spoke as
if the golden wedding belonged exclusively to Granny. "She should be home where
she could look after it herself. She shouldn't be here." "She can't help that!"
Rebecca Mary was indignant that old Peter Simmons should blame Granny for what
wasn't her fault. "She didn't want to stay." "You made the rule yourself,"
stammered Major Martingale, who was waiting fussily to carry old Peter Simmons
away. Major Martingale was indignant, also. "When we had so much trouble with
the labor agitators you said no one was to leave Riverside. Absolutely no one,
you said!" He bristled like an angry turkey cock. "Sure, I made the rule,"
admitted old Peter Simmons. "I made it for you and the boys and the mechanics.
But I didn't make it for my wife and her friends." "How did I know you hadn't
sent her?" began the Major bitterly, but old Peter Simmons wouldn't let him
finish. "Why should I send a woman, two women, to a place I had chosen for an
important experiment which I wanted to work out in secret? That's nonsense,
Major! At the same time I believe that it has done Mrs. Simmons good to be here.
I'm glad you did keep her. There hasn't been anything for her to do so she has
been able to get some rest. It hasn't been bad for you, either, young lady." And
he nodded his grizzled head approvingly as he looked at rosy cheeked Rebecca
Mary. "Women," muttered the Major in a dark dank way, "are always interfering.
They do their best to ruin things for a man." "Oh!" Rebecca Mary looked at old
Peter Simmons for help. He gave it to her at once. "My experience, Major
Martingale," he said slowly, "is that women help men more than they hinder them.
I've had fifty years to prove a decision I made on my wedding day, that a woman
perfects a man's life, and I know that I'm correct. Yes, I'll be right out," as
the Major moved hastily and suggestively toward the door. "Don't wait for me."
"If you feel that way," Rebecca Mary said impulsively, "why do you tease
Granny?" She was rather scared when she had put the question, but she looked at
him as if she were not scared at all. Old Peter Simmons seemed nonplussed for a
moment. "On my soul, I don't know. Mrs. Simmons used to like me to tease her,
and so I kept on. But I'm afraid she doesn't care for it as much as she did," he
admitted ruefully. "Indeed, she doesn't!" Rebecca Mary wondered why on earth he
kept on teasing Granny when he knew Granny didn't like to be teased. Rebecca
Mary was beginning to feel sorry for old Peter Simmons, although she did think
that even the head of a big manufacturing plant should have room in his mind for
anniversaries and holidays. His mind shouldn't be filled entirely with
contracts. "Does she honestly expect me to remember that golden wedding
present?" The twinkle was more pronounced than ever in old Peter Simmons' blue
eyes. "Can't you give me a clue?" he begged with a chuckle, but Rebecca Mary
couldn't. She hadn't any idea herself what it was that Granny Simmons and her
husband had talked about so many times. Granny Simmons had never told her. So
old Peter Simmons had to go away muttering that women were the dickens, the very
dickens. That was exactly what they were. How was he to know what one of them
wanted for a golden wedding present? And even if his wife had told him what she
wanted, if they had talked it over hundreds of times together, how could he be
sure that she would want it on the golden wedding day? Women changed their minds
once a minute. A man was never sure of them. But his eyes twinkled as he
grumbled, and Rebecca Mary's eyes twinkled, too. There was no doubt that old
Peter Simmons was the greatest kind of a tease. Granny had described him
perfectly. They were in the big parlor where the old portrait of Richard Cabot's
great-grandmother hung. Rebecca Mary never thought of that portrait as Joshua
Cabot's great-grandmother, but always as Richard's great-grandmother. And when
old Peter Simmons went grumbling and twinkling away, Rebecca Mary looked up at
the portrait. "I wonder if your husband gave you what you wanted on holidays and
anniversaries?" she asked impulsively. "And do you think your great-grandson
will remember his golden wedding without being reminded?" "I don't know what it
is, but I'm sure this great-grandson will make a desperate effort to remember
anything you want him to remember," exclaimed a voice behind her. Like a red and
yellow wooden top, Rebecca Mary swung around and saw--would wonders ever cease?
--Richard Cabot, himself. It was not the Richard Cabot she had seen in Waloo for
that Richard had always looked as if he had just stepped from a brand new
bandbox and this Richard didn't look as if he had ever seen a bandbox. His hair
was too rumpled and his clothes too crumpled. Rebecca Mary stared at him, her
eyes and mouth big round O's of astonishment. Her heart suddenly climbed into
her throat and promised to choke her as he crossed the room with quick eager
steps. "Aren't you going to say that you are glad to see me?" He took the hand
she was far too surprised to offer him. "Where did you come from?" She didn't
seem able to find her every-day voice and had to use her Sunday one, which shook
a little. "Are you a prisoner, too?" Rebecca Mary hoped that he was. Although
there were four men at Riverside all devoted to her, you see she was not
satisfied. She wanted a fifth, even if this fifth man did make her heart beat so
uncomfortably. "There is a very jolly crowd of prisoners here," she added
encouragingly. "I'm sure you will like them." Richard looked from her sunburnt
fingers to her face, which was a most adorable pink, and knew that he had not
been mistaken--she was just what he had thought she was. "If I had known you
were here I should have come long ago," he said quite as if he could come and go
as he pleased. Evidently he had not met stern Major Martingale. "How could you
run away without leaving a word for me?" he went on reproachfully. "I tried to
make old Pierson tell me where you were, but all she would say was that Granny
had taken you on a motor trip. I thought that meant Seven Pines and called up
the house only to be told by Mrs. Swenson that for the first time in seven years
old Mrs. Simmons had disappointed her. She had promised to come to Otillie's
wedding and the wedding was on and Mrs. Simmons hadn't come. Mrs. Swenson didn't
know whether to be mad or worried. And I was in the same boat. I wrote to
Mifflin, and when I didn't hear a word from you I thought that perhaps you had
decided that you didn't like bankers. I sure was sore!" He laughed softly as if
now, with Rebecca Mary's hand still in his, it was rather amusing to remember
how sore he had been. Guilty consciousness was plainly written on Rebecca Mary's
pink and white forehead. "It wasn't my fault." She made the best defense she
could. "I didn't have a minute in which to send any one word. And since we have
been here we couldn't send words. You must remember that I have been a
prisoner." And she laughed as if it were the greatest fun in the world to be a
prisoner. "A prisoner in my great-grandmother's old home," smiled Richard, who
had not been half as surprised to see her as Rebecca Mary had expected him to
be. Indeed, he had not seemed surprised at all. "How do you like my great-
grandmother?" he asked in a whisper as if he did not wish his great-grandmother
to hear Rebecca Mary's answer. "We're the greatest friends," she whispered back.
"And I like your great-grandfather's old house enormously, but I don't quite
like to be a prisoner." "You'll be given your freedom soon," promised Richard,
quite as if he knew all about her case. "Things are moving right along out
there." He nodded in the direction of the shop. "I shouldn't be surprised if you
were released very soon now." "Are you interested in this mysterious experiment,
too? Granny and I are dying to know about it for all that we are sure of is that
an aviator, a chemical engineer and an electrical engineer and a United States
Army officer and a Luxembourg count are working on it with a lot of Waloo
mechanics. It is a very confusing combination. Major Martingale insists that it
is, oh, frightfully important and that Germany is reaching out grabbing hands
for it. He scowls like a pirate if we ask any questions at all. At first we
thought it must have something to do with aëroplanes, on account of Peter, you
know, and then we thought of a wireless something, but when the Luxembourg count
was tangled up with it we stopped trying to imagine what it was. We hear the
weirdest noises and smell the weirdest smells but they don't tell us anything."
She smiled expectantly and waited for him to tell her all about the great
experiment, but when he never told her a word but just smiled at her she
crinkled her nose and went on more slowly: "And now if a banker is added to the
staff we shall be more hopelessly at sea than ever." His smile grew into a
laugh. "The banker hasn't very much to do with it, but Major Martingale is
right. The thing is tremendously important. And Germany does want to grab it. It
would do a lot to reinstate her commercially and she is still making every
effort to get control of it. That's why Major Martingale has been so cautious.
He didn't want to run any risk of a leak. Did you know that old Mr. Simmons is
the Big Boss?" Then Rebecca Mary had guessed right. She was sure she had, but
she liked to hear Richard tell her that she had. "He brought me down with him
last night and old Martingale caught me as soon as we passed the guard and
carried me off to the shop. That is why I didn't see you last night and why now
I'm so suggestive of 'the morning after.' But you haven't said yet that you were
glad to see me," he said suddenly, and he took Rebecca Mary's other hand. "It
has seemed a thundering long time since I saw you. Has it seemed long to you?"
He bent his tall head so that he could look into her eyes. But before Rebecca
Mary could tell him whether the days since she had seen him had dragged or
whether they had exceeded the speed limit Major Martingale's harsh voice was
heard in the hall. "Cabot!" he bellowed. "Where are you?" CHAPTER XIX

Rebecca Mary's nose was out of joint. The great experiment proved so absorbing
that at noon Ben carried sandwiches and milk to the shop, and Frederick Befort
was the only man who joined Rebecca Mary and Joan at the big table in the dining
room. Frederick Befort seemed in a strange mood. At one moment he would be
wildly excited and tell some extravagant story which made the two girls laugh
heartily, and the next minute he would frown at his plate or jump up and go to
the window which overlooked the path which led to the shop. "Those may be
Luxembourg manners," Rebecca Mary thought disapprovingly. "But why isn't he at
the shop with the others?" "If Granny Simmons were here she'd say you had the
fidgets," remarked Joan precociously. "She always tells me that I have the
fidgets when I can't sit still." "It is a day to make a man have the fidgets,"
and her father stopped on his way back from the window to pat her cheek. "You
will never know, _mignonne_, what this day means to your father." "You could
tell me?" hinted Joan. But he only laughed and patted her cheek again before he
went back to his place. Rebecca Mary looked at him curiously. What a strange man
he was, not a bit like an American, like young Peter or--or Richard. She wasn't
sure she understood him, he was so strange. But she really didn't bother very
much about Frederick Befort then for she, too, was in a strange mood. She wanted
to be by herself and think. She scarcely knew of what she wanted to think but
she was conscious of a little glow of content. Perhaps if she went down by the
river bank she could discover why she felt so contented and happy when she had
been so restless and unreasonable. She was glad to hear Frederick Befort promise
to play ball with Joan although she wondered again why he did not go to the
shop, but that was his business, not hers. She ran upstairs to find Granny
asleep and with a sigh of relief she crossed the terrace on her way to the river
bank. But Joan called to her from the tennis court and ran toward her. Rebecca
Mary might have ignored the childish hail once, but she couldn't do it now, and
she walked slowly toward the court. "Look what my father made for me!" Joan
demanded breathlessly. She always spoke of her father with an emphasis as if her
father was made of "sugar and spice and everything nice" while other fathers
were compounded of dust and water without a grain of seasoning. She held up what
was meant to be a ball, but it was made from an old glove stuffed with--papers.
Rebecca Mary could feel them crackle. The glove fingers were wound around the
palm to hold the papers firm. It really wasn't much of a ball to any one but
Joan, who capered proudly and almost snatched it from Rebecca Mary as if she
could not quite trust even her with it. "My father made it for me," she repeated
joyously. Her father laughed. "Miss Wyman does not think that was any great
feat, _ma petite_," he teased. "She does not think it is a very good ball." Miss
Wyman was a true descendant of George Washington, and she horrified Joan by
confessing that Frederick Befort was right, and she had seen better balls than
the one he had made out of an old glove and some scraps of paper. "What do you
really think yourself?" She caught a tennis ball from the court, where it lay
neglected, and showed him what a ball could be. "But that's a ball from a
store!" Joan saw the difference in a flash. "And my father never made a ball
before. He said so. This is the first one he ever made, and he made it for me."
"No one else would accept it." He pinched her cheek. "Now, Joan, you must play
by yourself. I must go to the shop, but I tell you again you cannot throw this
ball I made over the hedge. It is not like a store ball." "If you wait I'll show
you!" Joan was only too eager to show what she could do, but he turned
impatiently away. "This may be the greatest day of my life, Miss Wyman." He
stopped in front of her. "Will you be so very kind as to wish me luck?" He took
the hand which hung at her side and pressed it. She looked at him in surprise,
and she was more surprised when she saw the flush on his usually pale face. She
wondered why this should be such a great day, but as he did not tell her she did
not ask but prettily offered her best wishes. He pressed her hand again and went
toward the shop with long eager steps. Rebecca Mary looked after him curiously.
She shook her head. No, she didn't understand him at all, not even a little bit.
And because a closed box is always more fascinating than an open one she would
have continued to think of Frederick Befort if Joan would have let her. But Joan
was pulling her sleeve. "I'll show you, then, Miss Wyman. Shall I? Shall I show
you that I can throw my ball over the hedge?" She was on tiptoe to show Miss
Wyman. Rebecca Mary looked at the only hedge near them, the arbor vitæ which
kept Riverside from spilling into the road, and shook her head. "You'll lose it
if you do. You can't go after it, you know." She reminded Joan that she was a
prisoner. "The guard will bring it to me if I ask him." Joan was not a bit
afraid that she would lose her ball even if Rebecca Mary did shake her head and
doubt whether the guard would leave his post by the gate to hunt among the
bushes which edged the road for a ball. She raised her arm to send the ball
flying over the hedge, but Rebecca Mary caught her hand. "I fear your father is
not a very good ball maker, Joan. See, the fingers have come unfastened. The
stuffing is falling out." She took the glove from Joan and tried to push the
papers back into it. "The stuffing is my father's papers. He took them from his
pocket," Joan told her proudly. "Can you put them back?" "I'd better sew them in
or they will be all over the place. Why----" she broke off to stare at one of
the scraps of papers which had fallen into her hand. There were figures on it
and a tiny drawing and a few German words. How strange! She pulled a larger
piece from the glove and after she had smoothed it she found more German words.
Like an express train dashing through a country station many things dashed
through Rebecca Mary's brain as she stood and looked at the bits of paper. She
remembered what Major Martingale had said about the great experiment, how
important it was and how Germany was trying to get control of it to regain her
old position in the commercial world. She remembered that Frederick Befort had
been named for one kaiser and had been a friend of another kaiser, who had
decorated him. She remembered many things Joan had said about Germany and that
the kaiser had called her "_ein gutes Kind, Johanna_," and Joan's whisper that
her father did not wish her to speak of Germany now, he wanted her to forget
Germany. She remembered also that Frederick Befort had said he was from
Luxembourg where the Germans had had great influence and power, that he had gone
to school in Germany. And Mrs. Erickson had heard him talking German to one of
the mechanics behind the woodshed! Rebecca Mary had heard many a spy story
during the war, and she shivered as she looked at the bits of paper in her hand.
Oh, it couldn't be possible that Frederick Befort had come to the Simmons
factory, that he had come to Riverside to obtain possession of the secret of
this great experiment which was to do so much for the world. He couldn't be one
of the German secret agents which the newspapers had had so much to say about
during the war. It wasn't possible, and yet when she had added one to one and
then to two and three she could obtain but one answer. The work at Riverside was
practically finished. Richard had told her so that morning. Frederick Befort
would have all the information he wanted by now, and, of course, he would wish
to get it to Germany as soon as possible. That was why he had torn his papers
and stuffed them into an old glove which Joan was to throw over the hedge. If
the guard saw it he would think it was only a child's plaything. A confederate
was hiding in the bushes and would catch the ball when it was tossed out. The
whole plan had been skillfully thought out and was now as plain as print to
Rebecca Mary's horrified mind. Joan pulled her sleeve impatiently. "Can't you
fix it? Let me take it and throw it over the hedge as my father told me." She
tried to take the ball from Rebecca Mary. "No, no! Leave it alone, Joan, or
you'll have the papers all over the grass." She had to think like chain
lightning. "I'll run in and sew it up. Don't tell your father," she cautioned
chokingly. "He wouldn't like it if he knew that his ball came to pieces so
soon." With the ball in her hand, and Joan trotting along beside her, she went
back to the house wondering what on earth she should do and how she could get
rid of Joan for a few minutes. Joan found the way herself when she saw the
farmhouse kitten asleep on the steps. "It has run away. I'd better take it right
back or Mrs. Erickson will be cross with me again. She said I was always taking
her things and forgetting to bring them back." "Yes, run over with the kitten."
Rebecca Mary knew if Joan once ran over she would stay for some time, long
enough perhaps to forget about the ball, for there were wonderful things to
interest a child at the farmhouse. Rebecca Mary shut the door of her room and
turned the key before she pulled the rest of the papers from the old glove. Oh,
there was no doubt about it! The papers were covered with drawings and German
words. Rebecca Mary groaned. What should she do? She put her hands over her eyes
to shut out the sight of those German words, but she could not shut the thought
of them from her brain. She felt nauseated. To think that a man would use his
little daughter as Frederick Befort had planned to use Joan. It was despicable.
She never wanted to see Frederick Befort again, and she had liked him so much.
Why, only this noon---- She began to understand now his extravagant gayety at
luncheon, he had thought his work was done, and he had stayed with them to find
a way for Joan to give the information he had collected to his confederates. No
one would suspect Joan. And she had wished him luck! She groaned again. It was
all so very plain to her that she turned and hid her face against the back of
the chair. After a long, long time, five minutes perhaps, she rose suddenly and
with her lips pressed tight together went to the desk and found an envelop in
which she put the scraps of paper. She looked about for a place to hide the
package for it was too bulky to carry in her pocket. Where would be a good
place? She opened the closet door. Across one end were several drawers and above
them were two shelves. On the top shelf was a bandbox. Rebecca Mary climbed up
to the bandbox and looked into it. She took out a hat and turning it over,
tucked her package inside the lining. Then she replaced the hat and put the box
on the shelf. She stood in the doorway and gazed anxiously at the box. It looked
as innocent as a box could look. No one ever would imagine that it held a
secret. Rebecca Mary sighed as she shut the closet door. Then she took several
sheets of Sallie Cabot's best note paper and drew meaningless lines on them and
wrote what might be taken at a careless glance for German words, and tore the
paper into scraps with which she stuffed the old glove. She would let Joan toss
it over the hedge so Joan could tell her father. If Frederick Befort thought his
plans had reached his confederate he would do nothing more. He couldn't get away
himself, and Rebecca Mary would have a little time in which to think what she
should do. She must tell someone, not Major Martingale, he would be merciless,
but Peter, or, no--Richard! Richard would be the man for her to tell. But, oh,
how she did hate to tell any one. Suppose she should speak to Frederick Befort
himself, persuade him to promise to forget everything that had happened at
Riverside, to remain true to the oath he had given Major Martingale? If she
could do that--if she only could. She had liked Frederick Befort. He was so
different from any man she had ever met. He had fascinated her with his talk of
courts and grand duchesses and emperors, she thought now a little bitterly.
There was an air of mystery about him which would pique a girl's interest, but
if the mystery meant that he was a German secret agent she wouldn't be
interested another minute. She would only be horrified and disgusted. Oh, what
should she do? Never had a teacher in the third grade of the Lincoln school been
given such a problem to solve. If only she could wake up and find that it was a
dream she would be so happy to forget it all. She shouldn't want to remember
this when she was sixty, she told herself drearily. But it wasn't a dream. The
old glove on the desk told her it wasn't, and she took it in her hand. "Well,
Count Ernach de Befort," she said under her breath, "I have spoiled your scheme
for the present. If Joan throws this to your confederate he will be puzzled what
to make of it." Even as she spoke Joan pounded on the door. "Are you there, Miss
Wyman? Have you mended the ball my father made me? Can't you be quicker? I want
to throw it over the hedge before my father comes to dinner." And she did throw
it over the hedge as she stood on the tennis court. It was a good throw for a
little girl, and Joan was jubilant as she ran across the court and climbed up on
the stone wall, behind the arbor vitæ to see where the ball had fallen. Rebecca
Mary ran too, although her legs did feel too weak to carry her, and her heart
was beating so fast. She caught the toes of her white oxfords in a cranny of the
wall and lifted herself so that she might look. But although they both looked
and looked there was no ball to be seen on that stretch of the road. Down by the
gate the guard was leaning against the fence, but the guard was not a ball, and
they were looking for a ball. "It's gone!" Joan was surprised. "Some one must
have taken it. Who do you think it was, Miss Wyman, a fairy or an ogre?" "An
ogre!" Rebecca Mary said fiercely. She felt so fierce that she was faint. "A
horrid black ogre. Oh, Joan! Why did you throw it?" she wailed. CHAPTER XX

Rebecca Mary's feet were as heavy as lead as she went back to the house, and her
heart was far heavier than her feet. Oh, Cousin Susan, Cousin Susan, what a
tangle you caught Rebecca Mary in when you persuaded her to take out a memory
insurance policy! It was later than she had thought, but the men had not come up
from the shop. Ben told her that they weren't coming, that he had just taken
them something to eat. He supposed that they would work all night again. Rebecca
Mary looked at him blankly. She had thought that all she would have to do would
be to return to the house and call Richard aside and slip her responsibility
from her slim shoulders to his broad back. She was so disappointed that she felt
almost sick. What should she do? "Is Mr. Befort at the shop?" she asked Ben,
trying her best to keep her voice steady and her chin from trembling. "Yas'm,
he's there with all the rest of 'em. They's gwine to make a night ob it fo'
suah. Will you gwine have yo' dinner now, Miss Wyman? It's ready an' it won't be
no better fer waitin'." Rebecca Mary was so relieved to hear that Frederick
Befort was at the shop that her chin stopped trembling. If Frederick Befort was
with the other men, with Richard and young Peter and old Peter, he wasn't trying
to get in touch with his confederates, and she could draw a long breath. It
didn't seem as if she had had a good breath since she had seen the scraps of
paper fall from the old glove. "Just a minute, Ben, until I run up and see if
Mrs. Simmons feels well enough to come down." "She don't," grumbled Ben. "Ah
asted her an' she said Ah was ter brung her up a tray. Folks seems to think Ah
hain't got nothin' else ter do but carry dinner here an' there an' yonder. Three
in one night is more than one nigger's job." "I know." Rebecca Mary was as
sympathetic as she could be with her mind full of something so much more
important than dinner. "But perhaps it won't happen again. You might serve Mrs.
Simmons first. She didn't eat any luncheon, and she must be hungry." As Rebecca
Mary's leaden feet carried her up the stairs she wondered if she should tell
Granny and show her the proof of her story which was in the bandbox in her
closet. But as soon as she saw Granny in a thin lavender negligee on the _chaise
longue_ she decided that she wouldn't tell her. Granny couldn't do anything, and
she had enough to bother about. Indeed, Granny did look pale and tired from
spending her day with the headache. She held out a welcoming hand when Rebecca
Mary came in. "Where have you been all afternoon? I thought you were lost."
"Have you missed me?" Rebecca Mary stooped to kiss the pale cheek. "You were so
sound asleep when I looked in that I thought you wouldn't be awake for hours.
I'm a brute that I didn't come in again." "I really haven't been awake very
long," Granny admitted when she heard how repentant Rebecca Mary was. "I do wish
I were home, Rebecca Mary. It was so silly to run away as we did. I might have
known something would happen. I'd give anything if we could be back in Waloo
before old Peter Simmons. I shan't mind his teasing so much at home. I shan't
feel quite so foolish there. A woman can't stand up to her husband as well as
she should if she feels foolish. I don't suppose there is any way we could slip
out?" she asked wistfully. No, Rebecca Mary didn't think there was any way, and
even if there had been she couldn't take it until she had told her story to
Richard and showed him the scraps of paper. But she would not tell Granny that;
she could only kiss Granny again and pet her and tell her that Richard had said
that they would be free soon to go where they pleased. She told Granny also what
old Peter Simmons had said, that he had proved the decision he had made on his
wedding day, that his wife had perfected his life. She made a very pretty speech
of it, and it pleased Granny enormously. "He always did have a nimble tongue,"
she murmured. "And he really does have a lot of patience with me. Here is Ben
with my dinner. I hope you brought a lot, Ben. You know I didn't have any
luncheon." "Yas'm. Ah hopes you gwine ter like the lower half of this spring
chicken, Mrs. Simmons? When Ah took the dinner out ter the shop Mr. Simmons, he
sez what you gwine give Mrs. Simmons fer her dinner? An' when Ah done tell him
spring chicken he sez ter brung you de lower half 'cause you gwine ter like de
dark meat better'n you do de white." "He did?" Granny was surprised. "Well!
well! So he does know what I like. Rebecca Mary, why do you suppose he always
asks me? Perhaps he has remembered other things, too. Didn't I tell you he was a
great tease? Run down to your own dinner, child. I shall do very well. And you
and Joan must be hungry." Rebecca Mary had never felt less hungry in her life
but she obediently ran down. She thought she wouldn't eat a mouthful until she
saw the array of good things which Ben had prepared when she suddenly discovered
that she was hungry. Nothing would be gained by starving herself, she thought,
as she patted Joan's shoulder. "We shall serve ourselves," she told Ben. "And
will you please go over to the shop and ask Mr. Cabot if I may speak to him at
once?" "Ah dunno as Ah dares. Old Mr. Simmons said he didn't want ter see any
one 'thin gunshot ob dat shop ter night. Maybe Ah could stand away an' holler,"
he suggested helpfully. "Never mind then." Rebecca Mary spoke as carelessly as
she could. "Perhaps he'll be up before long." "If you ast me Ah'd say they won't
be along 'fo' sunrise. Ah'm to take 'em another meal at midnight. That
'speriment suah makes 'em hungry." "You can tell Mr. Cabot then that I should
like to speak to him at once." Midnight was better than nothing, than morning.
"Yas'm. Maybe Ah can. Ah can try." "Do you want to tell we why you want to talk
to Mr. Cabot?" asked Joan curiously. "You haven't talked to me very much since
we came to dinner." "I think I must be tired. Suppose you talk to me? What did
Mrs. Erickson say when you took the kitten back?" It was a safe question for
Mrs. Erickson was sure to say considerable. Joan repeated Mrs. Erickson's words
and added enough of her own to last through dinner. She caught Rebecca Mary's
hand as they rose from the table. "Shall we go and play ball, Miss Wyman? I have
a new tennis ball I borrowed from Mr. Marshall." Ball! Rebecca Mary never wanted
to see another ball in her life. There had been one ball too many in it as it
was. She forced herself to smile at Joan. "I must go up to Granny, honey," she
said slowly. "She has been alone all day. You will have to play by yourself. If
Mr. Cabot comes up from the shop, or Mr. Peter, or even old Mr. Simmons, will
you call me, please?" She stood in the doorway and looked across the lawn in the
direction of the shop. The chatter of the gasoline engine came to her faintly,
puff-puff. She wondered if she should run across and call to Richard herself,
and she decided that she had better wait. She must do nothing to make Frederick
Befort suspect that she knew why he was at Riverside. When at last she went
upstairs she found that Granny was not inclined for conversation. "If you'll
hand me that book, Rebecca Mary, I'll finish it. There is a silly little heroine
in it who can't make up her mind which of three men she loves." "Do you think it
is always easy for a girl to know what to do?" Rebecca Mary asked wistfully.
Rebecca Mary was almost overwhelmed at the number of things she had discovered
that a girl should know. Granny began a rather scornful speech but as she looked
at Rebecca Mary's troubled little face she changed it for a more sympathetic
one. "No, I don't. I think it's very hard sometimes for every one, for even an
old lady, to know what is best to do. But if you were in a book, Rebecca Mary,
it would be easy. All you would have to do would be to wait for your knight of
the four-leaf clover," she laughed. "Oh, that!" Rebecca Mary had lost all
pleasure in her mysterious talisman; it had brought her all at once such a huge
amount of bad luck. "But how am I going to find him?" she asked impatiently.
"It's weeks since that day at the Waloo, and I don't know any more than I did
then." "Don't you?" Granny raised quizzical eyebrows. "Well, not much." Rebecca
Mary didn't wish to talk of clover leaves, but it would be easier to follow
Granny's lead than to offer one of her own. If she talked of what was really in
her thoughts she would frighten Granny into hysterics. "I know that Peter and
Mr. Cabot were there that afternoon and Wallie Marshall and George Barton. Even
old Major Martingale was there eating hot buttered toast, but I can't make one
of them say that he gave me that clover leaf. You don't think it was Major
Martingale, do you?" Rebecca Mary would rather never know the truth if fat old
Major Martingale had given her the talisman. Granny chuckled. "Ask him, Rebecca
Mary. Run along and ask him. You are sillier than this silly heroine." Rebecca
Mary never passed such an evening in her life. It was long, endlessly long, and
dreary and lonely, for Joan went to bed and Granny insisted on following the
adventures of her silly heroine. Rebecca Mary thought she would go mad as she
stood on the terrace and listened to the chattering gasoline engine or raced up
the stairs to see if the bandbox was still on the top shelf of her closet. At
last she couldn't wait another minute. She didn't care what old Peter Simmons
had told Ben. She would go within gunshot of the shop and call to--she wasn't
sure yet whether she would call for Frederick Befort and beg him to turn over a
new leaf and be loyal to the men with whom he was working, or to Richard and
tell him the suspicion which was tormenting her. She couldn't go to bed until
she had told some one. She called herself names because she hadn't gone to the
shop at once. Ben had forgotten to turn on the lights and the hall stretched
before her as dark as Egypt. She felt as if she were making her way through a
length of black velvet as she went down the stairs. But as she turned to run out
of the side door, which was the shortest way to the shop, she saw a thread of
light. It came from the right, from the room Major Martingale used as an office.
The door was always kept locked, but now it was ajar. Through the wide crack
Rebecca Mary could see a light on the desk beside which a man was standing as he
fumbled among the Major's papers. He was too tall and not wide enough to be
Major Martingale, and even before he turned so that the light fell on his face
Rebecca Mary knew who he was. Quickly, without taking even a second to think,
Rebecca Mary pulled the door shut. The key was in the lock, on the outside, and
she turned it. Then she leaned against the door frightened to death and ready to
cry. CHAPTER XXI

Rebecca Mary had caught a spy! And, oh, how she wished that she hadn't. When she
turned the key she had felt like Joan of Arc but immediately she became the most
arrant little coward that ever was. She leaned against the door and trembled in
every inch. She didn't know what to do with her spy now that she had caught him.
Of course, there was but one thing to do. She would have to tell old Peter
Simmons and give him the key. And now that she had Frederick Befort locked in
Major Martingale's office she was sorry. She had liked Frederick Befort. He was
so different from any man she ever had met. He had seemed romance to her with
his title, his centuries-old château, his rose-embowered country, his stories of
boar hunts and kaisers and grand duchesses, and all sorts of people such as
Rebecca Mary had never met on her way to and from the Lincoln school. But
Rebecca Mary had learned a lot of the little grand duchy about which she had
known so little, and she knew that while there were many men in Luxembourg who
had hated and feared German power there were others who would have welcomed it.
Frederick Befort had told her that himself, and she had read it in a book, also.
Frederick Befort had been at school in Germany, he had been born and raised
almost in Germany; only the width of a river had separated him from Germany. How
did they really know whether he actually had come from the Luxembourg side of
the River Sure? But whether he was in sympathy with Germany or not he had stolen
the secret of the great experiment which Germany wanted. That was the one thing
Rebecca Mary was sure of. She had the proof of that. And if he was a traitor he
should suffer only--only---- There was Joan! As she remembered Joan, Rebecca
Mary wanted to open the door and plead with Frederick Befort, make him promise
to forget all about Germany, to keep faith with old Peter Simmons. If he would
do that, if he could make Rebecca Mary trust him again she might--she might----
It would be too horrible for Joan to be labeled the daughter of a spy. It was so
horrible to Rebecca Mary that her hand was on the key when she heard a smothered
exclamation and a thud as if a movable body had suddenly come in contact with an
immovable body. Rebecca Mary cowered down beside the door and held her breath
until the hall was flooded with light, and she raised her frightened eyes and
saw Richard Cabot staring at her. "What are you doing there?" He could not
believe that she was listening. Rebecca Mary was not the sort of a girl who
would listen at keyholes. "H-sh!" She waved a frantic beckoning hand to him. She
was so glad that it was Richard who had found her. He was so sensible, so
dependable, he was Waloo's youngest bank vice-president and so was a man whom
many people trusted. She had never appreciated what it meant to be sure she
could trust a man before. A little glow broke through the smothering blackness
which had enshrouded her as she thought of how she could trust Richard. Rebecca
Mary knew that she was quite incapable of handling this situation, but she knew
that Richard could handle it. She could not imagine a situation which Richard
could not handle. So when Richard asked her with a compelling mixture of
curiosity and determination: "What's in there?" she stammered painfully, but she
told him. "A leak!" "A leak?" he repeated stupidly for he had not heard the
words Major Martingale and the others were constantly using and which had
impressed themselves upon Rebecca Mary's brain. He stared at the hand which
clung to the door knob. If there was a leak, although Richard did not see how
that could be for there were no pipes in the office to leak, did Rebecca Mary
think she could stop it by clinging to the door? Rebecca Mary put out her other
hand and clutched his arm. She had to feel him as well as see him. "I know Major
Martingale has been afraid of a leak," she faltered, "and as I was coming down
the stairs I saw that this door was open. You know it always has been kept
locked." She went on more hurriedly after she had started as if she wished to
finish her story as soon as possible. "And I saw a man at Major Martingale's
desk. I did! It wasn't my imagination. I really saw him and I shut the door and
--and locked it. He hasn't made a sound so he couldn't have heard me. But--but
I'm frightened!" And indeed she looked frightened. Richard frowned, but he put
his hands over the fingers on his arm. "Did you see who he was?" he asked
quickly in a hushed voice, almost a whisper. She didn't answer. She simply
couldn't tell him that she had, that the man who was rifling Major Martingale's
desk was Frederick Befort, Count Ernach de Befort. Richard pressed her fingers
gently. "Was it Befort?" he asked in that same quick whisper. Rebecca Mary
pulled her fingers from him. "How did you know? Oh, I've told you! I've just the
same as told you!" She covered her face with her hands. Richard reached behind
her and turned the key in the lock so that the door could be opened while
Rebecca Mary watched him in cold despair. She couldn't understand why he did
that. Surely Richard could be trusted. After Richard had unlocked the door he
put his arm around Rebecca Mary and drew her out on the terrace. "But--but----"
objected Rebecca Mary, who couldn't understand why he wanted to take her away
unless he wished to give Frederick Befort an opportunity to escape. "Rebecca
Mary," Richard said most irrelevantly as he drew her out with him, "you are a
goose. A dear little goose," he added as if to explain to Rebecca Mary exactly
what kind of a goose she was. Rebecca Mary pulled herself away impatiently. Why
should Richard waste time calling her names when there was a spy in Major
Martingale's office? She stammered as she tried to tell him that there were
other things for him to do now than to call her names. With a laugh Richard
tightened the arm which was still around her. "I'm going to tell you something,"
he said, bending his head so that he could speak directly into her pink ear.
"When you locked Befort in the office you locked up the man who invented the
thing we are working on. Yes, you did!" as Rebecca Mary pushed him away with a
funny little strangled exclamation. "Wait a minute and listen! Yes, I know that
we have all been afraid of a leak, but there hasn't been one. No, there hasn't!
Listen! You know Befort comes from Luxembourg?" Rebecca Mary nodded a dazed
head. She did know that, from the River Sure. "And how hot he is at the way the
Germans have treated his country and his grand duchess? He was so mad that he
couldn't stay neutral. He joined the French Foreign Legion and fought until he
was wounded and discharged. He had invented this--this"--evidently Richard
didn't know what to call the great experiment when he was talking to Rebecca
Mary--"this thing," he said at last. "He had talked about it to the kaiser
before he perfected it, and the kaiser wanted him to promise to give the thing
to Germany. Joan and her mother had come to this country. The countess was an
American, you know. She died and Befort came over for Joan. He decided he
couldn't find a safer place to work out his idea than the United States. He came
to Waloo and worked alone for months. Then he discovered that German agents were
watching him, and he was afraid they would steal his plans. He was in the bank
one day and talked to me. He never spoke of Joan so perhaps it isn't strange
that I didn't connect your loan child with him. I arranged for him to meet Mr.
Simmons. The thing was just in his line, and he could give Befort protection.
Mr. Simmons found him a place in his factory and mechanics to help him and got
the government interested for it is a big thing, a mighty big thing. Everybody
came down here to finish up the job where there would be no chance of German I.
W. W. interference. But you see Befort didn't have to steal the plans. He had
them in the brain that invented them." "Oh!" Rebecca Mary couldn't say another
word to save her life. Her face crimsoned. She wished the terrace would open and
drop her into Pekin or Shanghai. She didn't care which. How could she have made
such a mistake? "But the ball!" she exclaimed suddenly, and she told Richard
about the glove which Frederick Befort had turned into a ball and which was
stuffed with drawings and notes for something. "I've no doubt it was. Befort has
a lot of ideas, and if he took any papers from his pocket they would be sure to
be covered with drawings and figures. As for German words, you know he was
practically brought up in Germany?" "Yes," sighed Rebecca Mary. It was all so
clear now that Richard had explained it to her. "No wonder you called me a
goose," she said ruefully. "A dear little goose!" When Richard was quoted he
wished to be quoted exactly. His voice was very tender as he corrected Rebecca
Mary. "A goose," repeated Rebecca Mary somewhat crossly. She was in no mood for
tenderness, she was too ashamed and mortified. She was almost inclined to blame
Richard for the mistake she had made. If he had only told her something--
anything. But if he hadn't come stumbling over the hall chair she might have
accused Frederick Befort to his face. "Oh," she wailed, "I never want to see
Frederick Befort again! What shall I do? I never want to see him again!" "Don't
you?" Richard seemed quite pleased to hear that she had seen enough of the
romantic Luxembourg count. He had feared that Rebecca Mary might wish to see a
lot more of him. "Well, you don't have to see him again," he said quickly. "I'm
going to Waloo in the morning, and I'll take you with me." "Will you?" Rebecca
Mary couldn't believe there was such a simple solution to her puzzle. "Can you?"
She remembered that one could not go from Riverside as one pleased. "Sure I
can." Richard spoke quite confidently. "I'd take you this minute but you've worn
yourself out over this thing and you need sleep." "I don't feel that I shall
sleep until I am back in Waloo," sighed Rebecca Mary, and her lip quivered.
"Yes, you will. You'll be asleep as soon as your head touches the pillow now
that you have nothing to bother over. You meet me at--is six-thirty too early? I
have to go up and back before noon so I must start early." He couldn't start too
early to suit her. "There's Granny!" Rebecca Mary had almost forgotten Granny.
If Richard had thought he was going to take an early morning ride with no one
but Rebecca Mary he hid his disappointment very well when he learned that they
were to have company. "Sure, there's Granny. We'll take her with us." "And
Joan?" doubtfully. Perhaps Richard would think that Joan should be left with her
father. But Richard didn't. "Joan, too. Her father will be too busy for the next
twenty-four hours to look after her. He was so excited we had to send him away
to-day." So that was why Frederick Befort had not been at the shop. "It has been
a great day for him and unless I miss my guess there will be a greater one to-
morrow." And so that was why Frederick Befort had asked her to wish him luck.
Rebecca Mary blushed again as Richard went on. "Six-thirty, you know. And not a
word to any one!" And lowering his voice, he whispered a few directions. He
chuckled as if he were going to enjoy carrying Rebecca Mary away from Riverside.
There seemed to be more in his mind than he was telling Rebecca Mary. But
Rebecca Mary was not critical nor observing. She was only grateful. "I'll never
forget your heavenly goodness!" she exclaimed as she turned to go in and tell
Granny that they were to leave Riverside at six-thirty in the morning, that
Granny was to have her wish and reach home before old Peter Simmons. "I'll
remember it to my dying day!" "Will you, Rebecca Mary?" Richard seemed quite
pleased to hear how long he was to be remembered, and he caught her hand and
pressed it before he let her go. "Will you?" CHAPTER XXII

If Richard was a tower of strength that night he was a veritable magician the
next morning, for he extracted the two women and a half from a carefully guarded
place as easily as most men would take a friend out for a walk or to a theater
or church. Granny had been delighted to accept Richard's kind invitation to run
away to Waloo. Her faded blue eyes sparkled when Rebecca Mary gave it to her.
"Of course, I'll go," she said at once. "It's too great a strain to be under the
same roof with old Peter Simmons. I'm crazy to see him, Rebecca Mary, but I
don't dare. Perhaps if I run away again he'll know that I don't want to be
teased. I simply can't discuss a golden wedding present now. We've done it too
often. But I don't know what I'll do, Rebecca Mary, if he doesn't remember what
we planned. If I weren't so proud I should tell him that it begins with an H.
But I can't even do that, Rebecca Mary. It's funny I should feel this way after
fifty years, but I do. I can't help it even if I do know how silly it is." So in
the early morning Granny and Rebecca Mary and a very sleepy Joan left the house
as stealthily as if they had been robbing Riverside and made their way from one
clump of shrubbery to another to the gate. It thrilled Rebecca Mary, whose teeth
fairly chattered. It even thrilled old Granny a bit, but it only puzzled Joan,
who could not understand why she had been wakened so early nor why she was being
taken from Riverside without saying good-by to her father although Granny told
her that they had left a note for her father and one for old Peter Simmons. How
Rebecca Mary did blush when Count Ernach de Befort was mentioned! Before they
reached the gate Richard came down the driveway in the car which had brought
Granny and Rebecca Mary and Joan to Riverside. He stopped to speak to the guard,
who was on the other side of the car so that the three prisoners were able to
slip by it and hide themselves in the bushes which were most conveniently placed
just outside the gate. "Pooh!" exclaimed Granny as she settled herself in the
tonneau with Joan, "if I had known how easy it would be I shouldn't have stayed
twenty-four hours. Oh, well, I don't know as I care so long as I shall get home
before old Peter Simmons. We have had a rest and a change. I don't often find
fault with an experience after it is over. I did want to go to Seven Pines
before the golden wedding, but perhaps it is just as well. You haven't anything
to complain of, have you, Rebecca Mary? Riverside was more interesting for you
than Seven Pines would have been. Wasn't it?" "Much more interesting!" Rebecca
Mary had never seen a foot of Seven Pines and so should not have been so quick
to decide that Riverside was more interesting. "I'm glad that Major Martingale
made prisoners of us." And then she remembered what had happened the last day
she had been a prisoner, and she flushed and stammered. "At least I was glad."
She looked at Richard to see if he remembered the secret that they shared, and
he nodded and smiled. Rebecca Mary did not like to think of that last night. It
made her hot all over, from the top of her head to her very heels, to remember
what she had done. She hoped that no one but Richard would ever know. "We're
going home, we're going home," sang Joan to an air of her own composition. "I'm
the only one who has what we came for," she announced jubilantly. "I came for my
father and I found him right away. But you haven't your young heart, have you,
Granny? And dear Miss Wyman hasn't found the payment for her insurance, have
you, Miss Wyman?" How disappointed Granny and Rebecca Mary must be! "Perhaps I
didn't find the real young heart I wanted, Joan, but then I knew that an old
body isn't just the place for a real young heart," Granny confessed honestly.
"But my old heart is a lot younger than it was. It makes an old heart young in
just the right way to match an old body to be with young people, you know." She
gave the prescription gravely to Joan, and Joan received it as gravely. "That
makes two of us who have what we came for." Joan was even more jubilant. "I'm
sorry you haven't, Miss Wyman." Miss Wyman couldn't know how sorry she was. But
Rebecca Mary didn't want sympathy from any one, and she said so at once. "Indeed
I did make a payment on my memory insurance policy, Joan. I made a lot of
payments. Why, at the rate I've been paying I shan't be able to collect all the
payments on that memory insurance policy, not if I live to be a hundred!" Joan
bounced up and down on the seat beside Granny. "Then it's time to go home," she
said with funny solemnity. "When you get what you want it is always time to go
home." They stopped at a farmhouse to telephone to Pierson to have breakfast
ready for them, and when they reached the house a most delicious breakfast was
waiting in the dining room. "I'm glad you're back, Mrs. Simmons," Pierson said.
"Young Mrs. Simmons and I don't agree about the arrangements for your golden
wedding." "Don't you, Pierson?" smiled Granny. "I wonder if you and I will agree
about them. If we don't you must remember that the golden wedding is mine.
Gracious, but I am glad to be home again where I can look after things myself! I
declare, Rebecca Mary, I can't think now why we ever went away. I must have been
in a panic." "Mr. Simmons came about fifteen minutes after you left, ma'am,"
explained Pierson, who stood beside Granny, eager to tell her what had happened.
"He was quite put out, I can tell you, when I told him you had gone on a motor
trip. He wanted to know where----"

"You couldn't tell him that, could you, Pierson?" Granny seemed quite pleased to
think that Pierson couldn't. "You didn't know where we were. We haven't been
near Seven Pines." "No, ma'am, I know. Mrs. Swenson called me up to ask where
you were. But when Mr. Simmons asked me the way he did he got me all flustered
and before I knew it I told him you had gone to the Cabot country place. You
often go there, you know, Mrs. Simmons, so it wasn't strange I told him you were
probably at Riverside." Granny put down her knife and fork and stared at her.
"You never told him that, Pierson?" She hid her face in her napkin, and her
shoulders shook. "What did he say? What did Mr. Simmons say, Pierson?" "He
didn't say anything for a minute, ma'am, and then he laughed in a funny sort of
a way. 'At Riverside?' he said, ma'am. 'Well, I'll be darned! The devil she is!'
That's exactly what he said. But you often go there as Mr. Simmons knows, and
yet he seemed surprised as anything to hear you might have gone there now. But I
had to tell him something, Mrs. Simmons, when he asked me like he did." Granny
was laughing so that she almost choked. "Pierson," she said when she could
control her voice, "I shall raise your wages. I never suspected that you had an
imagination. No wonder Mr. Simmons wasn't surprised to find us at Riverside. I
dare say Major Martingale told him, too, and young Peter, in spite of their
promise to me. Dear, dear! Mr. Simmons always seems to get the best of me." She
shook her head ruefully. "I wonder what he said when he found that we had run
away from Riverside." "He probably said 'Well, I'll be darned' again," laughed
Richard as he repeated a phrase which was often on old Peter Simmons' lips when
he was surprised. "You mustn't be too hard on him, Granny. You know this
experiment is frightfully important and--you know him," he finished rather
lamely. "I do," nodded Granny. "If I didn't know him I should never have done a
lot of things that I have. You must put off fireworks to make old Peter Simmons
see anything besides his business. If men weren't so queer women wouldn't have
to be so peculiar," she sighed. "You might remind old Peter Simmons that he was
married at noon. It would be just like him to come in at night," she prophesied
gloomily. "Mr. Simmons won't be late," Richard promised somewhat rashly. "I'll
see myself that he is here by noon." "You always were a good dependable boy. I
can trust you. It is a great thing, Rebecca Mary, to have a man about whom you
can trust." There was something so significant in the way she spoke that Rebecca
Mary turned pink until she matched the sweet peas in the center of the table.
She looked so pretty in her self-conscious confusion that Richard had to stop
eating omelet and muffins and look at her. Granny went to telephone to young
Mrs. Simmons about the golden wedding, and Joan ran after Pierson to tell her
all that they had found at Riverside. Rebecca Mary pushed back her chair and
rose, too. She just couldn't sit there and let Richard stare at her as he was
doing. It made her feel--she could scarcely tell you how it did make her feel
when she remembered the way Richard had comforted her the night before. She
could still feel the pressure of his arm about her when he had told her that she
was a goose. She slipped out on the porch where Richard found her in the swing
beside the rambler rose. She looked up with a smile. "It doesn't seem as if it
could be true that we are free again. I think it was wonderful the way you got
us out of Riverside." He smiled, too. "Can you keep a secret?" he asked
impulsively. "I can!" She turned a curious face toward him. "I'm a perfect
wonder at keeping secrets. I love 'em so I just can't give them away. Do tell me
one!" "I hate to be told how wonderful I am when I haven't been wonderful at
all," he said honestly. "So I'll confess that Mr. Simmons asked me to bring you
and Granny and Joan home." "He did?" Rebecca Mary couldn't believe it. She
visualized the caution with which Granny had slipped from bush to bush, how
stealthily she had crept to the gate. And there had been no need of caution. How
old Peter Simmons could tease Granny now! By running away from his teasing she
had only given him more material with which to tease her. "She'll be furious,"
she said, not sure but she was a little furious herself. "She must never know."
Richard reminded her that what he had given her was a secret. "Mr. Simmons said
if Granny could slip out of Riverside and get home before he did she would think
she was getting the better of him and be a lot happier." "The dear old man,"
breathed Rebecca Mary, forming a new opinion of old Peter Simmons instantly.
"What next?" "And he asked me to bring her to Waloo. That's all, but you see you
can't pin any cross on me. I was just obeying orders. I thought you would enjoy
the joke, but we won't tell Granny. Let her think that she did get ahead of Mr.
Simmons." "I should say so. That dear old Peter Simmons to let Granny retreat
with honor! He's not such a bad sort if he does forget his anniversaries and
presents and things. Dear me, how long ago it seems since we ran away from here!
Otillie Swenson must be an old married woman by now." "I don't suppose you
thought of me once while you were at Riverside," Richard said jealously. "Well,"
a perverse imp appeared in Rebecca Mary's cheek just above the corner of her
lip, and there was a perverse imp in her voice, also, "I was rather busy you
know. I was the only girl there and four, no, five, men, for old Major
Martingale had to have a word now and then, five men in the hand didn't leave
much time for one in----"

"The heart," suggested Richard quickly and eagerly, and he dropped into the
swing beside her. "If you tell me you kept me in your heart, Rebecca Mary, I
shan't mind how many men there were in your hand?" But Rebecca Mary wouldn't
tell him that although the question sent her into the strangest flutter she had
ever been in in her life, and Richard frowned. He remembered how the men at
Riverside had hung about Rebecca Mary. "You girls are all alike," he said
bitterly, and he jumped up from the swing. "I thought that day at the Waloo you
would be different----"

"At the Waloo!" interrupted Rebecca Mary. "I should say I was different that
day! Why, nothing had ever happened to me then; every day was just like every
other day, gray and stupid, but now----" she stopped, appalled at all that had
happened since that day at the Waloo, at the few gray stupid days there had been
and the many many rosy interesting ones. "Just suppose Cousin Susan had bought
kitchen curtains!" she exclaimed with what Richard considered irritating
irrelevance. "Never mind about curtains." Richard wasn't interested in anything
connected with the kitchen just then. "They aren't important----"

"Oh, but they were! Frightfully important. Why, there was a moment when my whole
future was wrapped up in ten yards of cheap swiss?" She looked almost frightened
as she thought of her future in a neat parcel with ten yards of cheap swiss.
"You know I was a very selfish self-centered disagreeable person,--yes, I was!--
before I went to the Waloo with Cousin Susan that day. But there must have been
magic in the tea or--or in the favors," she laughed tremulously as she
remembered the favor she had received. "I haven't been the same since," she
confessed in a way which told him that she was very glad that she hadn't been
the same. "If you would only be the same for two minutes in succession," begged
Richard helplessly. He never felt helpless before a man at the bank, no matter
who he was, but he felt absolutely helpless as he stood before Rebecca Mary and
looked into her rosy face. There was so much he wanted to tell her, and yet he
didn't seem able to form an intelligent sentence. He could only stand there like
a silly fool and look at the rosy face in which two gray eyes sparkled so
adorably. His own face reddened, and his heart seemed to miss a beat. "Better
change your mind and stay for luncheon, Richard." Granny came out with a cordial
invitation. "My, Rebecca Mary, but it does seem good to be at home again!" And
she said, as she had said so many times in the past few days; "I don't
understand now why I ever ran away. But if you won't stay, Richard, you must be
sure and tell Mr. Simmons that he should be here by twelve o'clock at the
latest. If he isn't here--if he isn't here----" she stopped aghast at the
possibility she had voiced. "If he isn't here I don't know what I shall do," she
finished truthfully if weakly. CHAPTER XXIII

Granny had no opportunity to know what would happen if old Peter Simmons was
late for his golden wedding for he came striding in long before the clock struck
twelve on the twenty-second of July. Young Mrs. Simmons with Mrs. Hiram Bingham
and Mrs. Joshua Cabot were assisting the maids in the pleasant task of arranging
the quantities of yellow and white flowers which came pouring in. Rebecca Mary
in a pretty pink gingham, lent a hand wherever she could, but she really wasn't
of very much help for her thoughts would stray to Richard and to Count Ernach de
Befort. She couldn't keep them on the yellow and white flowers, and every time
her thoughts strayed the color in her cheeks grew pinker than the color in her
frock. She was, oh, so ashamed and mortified when she remembered that she had
locked Count Ernach de Befort in Major Martingale's office and she told herself
that she hated Richard Cabot when she remembered that he had found her clinging
to the door. She should have been grateful to Richard, but she insisted that she
wasn't, not a bit. Richard had diagnosed her case as that of a goose, a dear
little goose, but she did not agree with him at all. She told herself that she
had been a fool, a perfectly idiotic fool. And she told herself, also, that she
hoped she would never see either Richard or Frederick Befort again for she
wanted to forget what a perfectly idiotic fool she had been. She wanted to see
young Peter and Wallie and Ben. The line of her lips softened when she thought
of them. What fun they had had at Riverside! She wondered if they had thought of
her at all or if they had been too busy with the great experiment to think of
any girl. With her thoughts roving from Waloo to Riverside it was no wonder that
Rebecca Mary was not of more assistance and that she put the white flowers where
Judy Bingham had planned to place the yellow flowers. When old Peter Simmons
came striding in like a conqueror, Granny was just coming down the stairs, and
she looked more like an old saint in her white linen house gown than she did
like a woman who had ever run away from her husband's question. [Illustration:
"HELLO, KITTY!"] "Where's Mrs. Simmons? Where's my bride?" demanded old Peter
Simmons almost before he crossed the threshold, and then he saw her on the
stairs. "Hello, Kitty!" He met her at the foot of the stairs with outstretched
hands. "You don't look a day older than you did fifty years ago. And you don't
act half as old. Aren't you ashamed of the way you've been running about the
country?" He gave her a little shake before he kissed her. "You need stronger
glasses, Peter, dear, if you think I don't look older than I did when we were
married. Goodness knows I don't feel as old! I should say I didn't! Then I was
eighteen on the outside and felt at least seventy on the inside, and now I'm
sixty-eight on the outside, and I don't feel more than eighteen on the inside.
But I look sixty-eight. Yes, Peter, I do, and you look seventy-one. Perhaps a
person can cheat old Time on the inside, but he can't do it on the outside.
There are tattle tales here--and here." And her finger touched the wrinkles
which separated old Peter Simmons' two grizzled eyebrows and the lines which ran
from the corners of his nose to the corners of his mouth. "You didn't have those
when you married me, Peter Simmons!" Old Peter Simmons laughed as if it were a
huge joke to have wrinkles on his golden wedding day. "I've a lot now that I
didn't have when I married you, old lady. Well, we've had fifty pretty fair
years together, haven't we?" He looked down at her fondly. "Want fifty more?"
Granny never hesitated the fraction of a second. "Mercy, no!" she declared
quickly. "That would be far too much of a good thing, a regular gilding of a
beautiful lily. Just a few more years, Peter, dear, and we'll be through. We've
earned our rest." "Rest!" roared old Peter. "What does a flighty young thing
like you want of a rest? I heard of your scandalous doings, Mrs. Simmons,
running off in the middle of the night, being locked up by the government. I
came very near letting you celebrate your golden wedding by yourself." He
pinched her cheek. "But Dick Cabot told me a man couldn't do that." He roared
again as he remembered the worried face Richard had worn when he told him that
he must, he simply must, be on time for his own golden wedding; he couldn't
leave Granny to go through that alone. "So I came back." "You didn't come empty
handed?" demanded Granny quickly. "Don't tell me you came empty handed, Peter
Simmons?" "No, I didn't do that. I didn't dare. I was afraid you would run away
again, and I need you in this big old house. The only way to keep some wives is
to give 'em trinkets." He bent to kiss Granny again before he put his hand in
his pocket. "I hadn't any idea what you wanted." His eyes twinkled. "You
wouldn't tell me----"

Granny watched him eagerly, anxiously. "I did tell you," she interrupted. "We've
talked it over together a hundred times since our silver wedding. You know we
have. You didn't forget, Peter?" Her voice told him that she could forgive
almost anything but his failure to remember what they had planned first on their
silver wedding day. "Twenty-five years is a long time for a man to remember a
little thing like a golden wedding present," went on old Peter Simmons in a
teasing voice, and he winked at Rebecca Mary over his wife's head. "I haven't
lost it, have I?" He was feeling in all of his pockets. "I was sure--Dick saw
that I had---- No, here it is!" And from one of the many pockets he took a long
envelop. Granny gave a little scream which made the decorators draw closer. They
were all interested in Granny's golden wedding present for Granny had made the
gift seem so important. "And here's mine," she said, and she took a long envelop
from the pocket of her skirt. It was tied with yellow ribbon while old Peter
Simmons' long envelop had a practical rubber band around it. Granny fairly
thrust her envelop into her husband's hands and snatched his from him in a way
which was quite inexcusable in any one, in even a bride of fifty years. "Peter,
you never----you did! If this isn't the greatest! You old darling!" And she
laughed until the tears ran down her cheeks. Old Peter looked at what was in his
envelop, and he laughed, too, until the tears stood in his eyes. "You didn't
trust me, old lady!" He shook his head at Granny. "You thought I had forgotten!"
"I did!" Granny frankly admitted her thought. "You just the same as told me you
had forgotten when you kept asking that foolish question--'What do you want?' I
didn't trust you, and I made up my mind that I shouldn't be disappointed even if
I had to carry out alone the plan we made together so I went down to Judge
Graham yesterday and had him fix things up. I was so afraid that you'd give me a
diamond necklace or a string of pearls." She sighed happily because he hadn't
given her either diamonds or pearls. He stopped in the middle of another laugh,
and looked at her with a funny expression as if he wasn't sure, not at all sure.
"H-m," was all he said. "H-m," replied Granny. "Why did you pester me so if you
remembered?" Old Peter finished his interrupted laugh and had another one before
he pulled her gray hair as he undoubtedly had pulled her brown hair in the days
when she was eighteen on the outside and felt seventy on the inside. "Because I
like to tease you, old lady. You go up in the air quicker than any one I ever
knew, and I like to see you rise. It's meat and drink to me. You always come
down gracefully. I must say that for you," he added admiringly. "Not this time,"
she told him honestly. "I didn't land gracefully this time, Peter. You got the
better of me all around. But whoever would have imagined that when I ran away
from you I should run right into you?" "It was Fate," old Peter told her
emphatically. "And it means that you can't get away from me, no matter where you
run." Granny kissed his brown wrinkled cheek. "Yes," she said soberly. "I guess
that's what it means. And I'm glad of it!" she went on firmly, "I could go
farther and fare worse even if you are the biggest tease on earth, Peter
Simmons!" Young Mrs. Simmons and Judy Bingham and Sallie Cabot could bear the
suspense no longer. They had heard so much about the golden wedding present
which Granny wished to receive that they just had to see it. "What did father
give you, Mother Simmons?" Young Mrs. Simmons was an impatient spokeswoman.
"What did she give you, Father Simmons?" "Yes, what did you give her?" Sallie
Cabot drew Rebecca Mary into the ring around Granny and old Peter Simmons. Joan
did not wait to be drawn, she ran in herself for she, too, was eager to see what
Granny had wanted so much that she had run away from old Mr. Simmons so that he
would be sure to give it to her. It was a funny way to obtain a present. Joan
did not understand the method. Perhaps she would if she could see the gift.
Granny was laughing so that she could scarcely tell them what it was. So was old
Peter Simmons. "You see, dears," began Granny, breaking a laugh in two and
wiping the tears from her eyes, "we felt older twenty-five years ago than we do
now, didn't we, Peter? And we wanted to do something for the world that had been
so good to us. We had had twenty-five as perfect years as a man and woman could
have together, and we wanted to show that we appreciated them. Peter thought of
a trade school, and I thought of a children's home because women naturally think
of children, you know, and then we had an inspiration. I don't remember which
thought of it first, do you, Peter?" "I expect you did," old Peter suggested
handsomely. "Well, perhaps I did, but it doesn't matter, for when two people
live together for twenty-five years they grow to think the same things. Yes,
they do, Rebecca Mary, as you'll see some day. I often catch myself thinking of
contracts. But this time we thought of a home for old couples. We were so sorry
for the old couples who couldn't grow older together that we decided that we'd
give them a home when we had been married fifty years and were an old couple
ourselves. A home for friendless old couples. We shouldn't wait until we were
dead and some one would look after it for us. We'd do it ourselves and get to
know some of the old couples. That was why we bought Seven Pines, wasn't it,
Peter? And that was why I wanted to take you to Seven Pines, Rebecca Mary. I
wanted to go there to stay for a few days before my golden wedding. We've talked
and planned a lot about it, and I was a silly old fool to let Peter tease me
with his question. I should have known you, Peter, but perhaps it was because it
meant so much to me that I was frightened to death for fear you had forgotten or
changed your mind. But you hadn't for---- See!" She held up the envelop old
Peter had given her, and her face was radiant as she told them what was in it.
"Here is the deed all ready for me to sign for the Katherine Simmons Home for
Old Couples." "And here," old Peter Simmons held up the envelop which had been
given to him, "here is the deed for the Peter Simmons Home for Old Couples all
ready for me to sign. We'll have to compromise on the name, Kitty, and merge it
into the Simmons Home." "Is that all the present is?" Joan had never been more
disappointed in her life. She could not join in the chorus of admiring approval.
But she could understand why Granny cried. She would want to cry if old Peter
Simmons gave her an old home for old people. There was only one thing which
would make it right to Joan, and she pulled Granny's sleeve. "Will you give the
old couples young hearts, Granny?" she whispered eagerly. "We'll try," Granny
whispered back. "That's exactly what we are going to try to do, Joan, to make
tired old hearts younger. The world would be so much happier if there were not
so many old hearts in it. You keep yours young, Joan, as long as you live," she
advised quite confidentially. "Bless my soul!" she exclaimed as she heard a
machine puff up the driveway. "Is that young Peter with our jailor? I've been so
taken up with our golden wedding presents, Peter, dear, that I never asked how
your experiment worked. Was it a success?" "It was a big success." Old Peter
Simmons looked as if he was more than satisfied with the way the great
experiment had worked. "We've given it every sort of try out and it can't go
wrong. If we hadn't made sure of that I couldn't have come to your golden
wedding, Kitty. I should have had to send my regrets." He winked at Rebecca Mary
and tickled Joan under her chin. "Some day, Miss Wyman," he told her more
soberly, "you will be proud to remember that you were a prisoner at Riverside
when Befort's big idea was worked out." "What will it do?" Joan wanted to know
at once. "What can you do with my father's idea, Mr. Simmons?" Mr. Simmons
tickled her under her chin again. "That would be telling," he whispered with a
great show of secrecy. "And then you wouldn't be curious any longer. There is
only one way to keep people interested and that is to keep them guessing," he
went on with a twinkle. "If you knew what to-morrow was going to bring you
wouldn't care whether you had a to-morrow or not. You'd never want to go to bed
to-night." "I'm not going to bed to-night, anyway not until the old people do.
Granny said I needn't, that I could stay up until the last minute of the golden
wedding!" Joan drew herself up with proud importance. "But I'll tell my father
what you said about the way to keep people interested, and I'll tell Miss Wyman,
too," as if she thought old Peter Simmons wanted his recipe circulated as
rapidly as possible. Old Peter Simmons chuckled. "You may tell your father if
you want to, but I rather think that Miss Wyman knows. The knowledge is born in
some girls. That's what makes them such a puzzle to us men. How about it, Miss
Wyman?" he said teasingly to Rebecca Mary. "You don't need to be told, do you?"
CHAPTER XXIV

Granny's golden wedding celebration was a very informal affair although many
important people came to offer their congratulations and to ask Granny where on
earth she had been and to tell her how much she had been missed. Although she
had been married at noon Granny had chosen to have her party in the evening, and
July the twenty-second offered her a wonderful evening, cool and pleasant as a
July evening can be occasionally. Old Peter Simmons was continually leaving his
place beside Granny to draw Rebecca Mary into a corner and ask her if she
thought that Granny really was satisfied to have a home for old couples for her
golden wedding present or if Rebecca Mary thought Granny would rather have had
something more personal. "I always have given her something personal," he
explained, "ever since the Christmas when she gave me a carpet sweeper. For
years before that I'd showered her with rugs and library tables and a brass bed
and other household furniture. She said then she guessed the house was mine as
much as it was hers and it was only fair for me to take my share of the stuff.
And she was right. But that made me suspicious ever after. And now--of course,
she planned this aged home herself, but women do change and you heard what she
said. Do you think she would rather have had a string of pearls?" Granny had
given old Peter Simmons something to think of when she had said she was so
afraid that he was going to give her pearls or diamonds for a golden wedding
present. "What is that about pearls?" And there was Granny herself. She had
followed them to ask old Peter Simmons why he couldn't stand beside her and say
thank you when people told him how lucky he had been to have had her to live
with for fifty years instead of rushing off into corners with Rebecca Mary.
"Indeed, I do want that Simmons Home for Old Couples," she declared when old
Peter Simmons had stammered "Why." "I should have been broken-hearted if you had
brought me anything but that deed. Pearls!" she sniffed scornfully. "What would
I do with a string of pearls? I should only put it away for young Peter's wife."
"But young Peter hasn't any wife!" objected Joan, who, of course, was at Rebecca
Mary's elbow. "He will have some day," laughed young Peter, who had been drawn
to the little group in the corner. "Won't he, Rebecca Mary?" Rebecca Mary was
furious because she colored when Peter asked her if he wouldn't have a wife some
day, and she was more furious when she stammered in her answer. Why should she
always be so horribly self-conscious? If she had known how charming she was as
she colored and stammered she wouldn't have been so angry. "Most men have," was
all she said. "Not all men," insisted Joan. "There's my father. He hasn't any
wife." "He has had one, and one is enough for any man," Peter told her. "I don't
think it's enough for my father. He always wants two of everything, roast beef
and ice cream and handkerchiefs and pencils and--and everything," she declared,
and Peter pulled her hair and asked her how she dared to compare a wife to roast
beef before he went away to dance with Doris. Rebecca Mary looked across the
room at the man who wanted two of everything. He was standing by the window, and
he wore the absent-minded detached expression which Rebecca Mary and Granny had
seen him wear at Riverside. Only a part of Frederick Befort was at that moment
at Granny's golden wedding party. But as Rebecca Mary looked at him he raised
his head and their eyes met. Rebecca Mary blushed again. Oh, dear, wouldn't she
ever overcome that silly conscious habit? But she just had to blush as she
remembered that she had thought he was a spy. The absent-minded expression
slipped from Frederick Befort's face as all of him came to the party, and he
started toward Rebecca Mary. She turned away quickly. She couldn't speak to him.
She was glad to have Sallie Cabot stop beside her, although Sallie Cabot's words
were far from quieting. "What have you done to my Cousin Richard?" Sallie
demanded with a laugh. "I used to say he was like a piano, grand, upright and
square, but lately he has quite a ukelele look. What have you done to him?"
Rebecca Mary blushed a third time as she involuntarily looked at Richard as he
stood talking to two most important men. She couldn't detect any ukelele look,
she thought indignantly. He looked as he had always looked, perfectly splendid,
to her. What did Mrs. Cabot mean? But Mrs. Cabot drifted away, she did not wait
to explain, and Rebecca Mary was left alone with her question. She felt rather
forlorn and neglected for it was a long time since she had been left alone.
There had been a young man to ask her to do this and another young man to ask
her to do that. But now young Peter was dancing with Doris and Wallie was
talking to Martha Farnsworth and George was in a corner with Helen Lester. So
they had been devoted to her at Riverside just because she was the only girl
there. She had known that all the time, she told herself, but it did hurt a bit
to have it proved so conclusively. But there was one thing she did have, she
thought stoutly, and that was the memory of the good time she had had at
Riverside. That couldn't be taken from her--ever! And as if the memory of a good
time had soothed the little feeling of neglect which had hurt her she slipped
out of her corner and made herself very pleasant to the people she found
neglected in other corners. Many eyes followed Rebecca Mary as she moved here
and there, for she wore a new crisp organdie frock with pink ribbons exactly
where pink ribbons should be and tiny blue forget-me-nots tied in with the pink
rosebuds. It was a very charming frock and Rebecca Mary was very charming in it.
Young Peter told her so as soon as his dance with Doris was finished. "Rebecca
Mary," he said sternly, "I hope you are as good as you are good looking."
Rebecca Mary laughed and then she sighed. "I'm not," she said with a little
quiver of her lower lip. "At least, I'm not good, Peter. I'm envious and jealous
and all sorts of horrid things." "Glad of it." Peter did not seem at all shocked
to hear how horrid she was behind her good looks. "If you weren't a few of those
things you wouldn't be down here with me. You would be up in the blue sky tuning
your harp. I like a girl, especially a pretty girl, to be human." "I guess I'm
awfully human." And Rebecca Mary sighed again. "Who is calling you names?" And
Wallie and George stopped to ask her what she had meant by running away from
Riverside and leaving them without a girl to play with. They never could tell
her how they had missed her--every hour. "Pooh," laughed Rebecca Mary. "You were
too busy with your great experiment to miss me for a minute." They pretended to
be cut to the quick by her doubt of their veracity, and Rebecca Mary was once
again the center of a merry chattering group. It was such fun to laugh and joke
with them again. She hoped they had missed her. And then she caught her breath
with a frightened little gasp for Frederick Befort was coming toward her again,
and this time he did not look as if he could be evaded. "May I speak to you?" he
asked Rebecca Mary with a serious directness which made Peter and Wallie and
George murmur a few words and drift away, although Rebecca Mary did try to
clutch Peter's sleeve. Rebecca Mary did not wish to be alone with Frederick
Befort for a minute. She was so afraid that he knew that she had locked him in
Major Martingale's office at Riverside, that she had taken him for a spy. She
had avoided him all day, and she would have avoided him now if it had been
possible. She was very uncomfortable as she went with him to the porch and
dropped down among the pillows of the swinging seat. Her heart was beating so
loud that she was sure he would hear it. Frederick Befort stood in front of her
and looked down at her. He did not say a word. Rebecca Mary shivered among the
cushions and tried to say something. "It is a lovely golden wedding, isn't it?"
she said, and she could have slapped herself when she heard her voice shake.
Frederick Befort drew himself up, clicking his heels together in the way which
had roused Rebecca Mary's suspicions, and looked straight into her eyes. "Miss
Wyman," he said very formally, "I beg that you will honor me by becoming my
wife?" "Wh-a-t?" Rebecca Mary slipped from among the cushions and stood staring
at him with wide-open-startled eyes. She had expected him to berate her for
taking him for a spy and he had asked her to marry him. She had never been more
astonished in her life. She dropped weakly back among the cushions. "You touched
my heart at once by your kindness to my little Joan," Frederick Befort went on
swiftly, and his voice was like a caress as he took her hand and raised it to
his lips. "Whenever I think of Mrs. Muldoon I am in such a rage that it is well
that she is not near me. What would have happened to my little girl if it had
not been for your heavenly sweetness and generosity!" He shivered as he thought
of what might have happened to Joan. Rebecca Mary shivered, too. "Oh," she
gasped faintly. She couldn't say another word. She could only stare at him with
big unbelieving eyes. "And always you were kind to every one," Frederick Befort
went on in that soft low voice which was so like a caress. "Kindness means much
to me now. I have seen so much--unkindness. To-morrow I go to Washington with
Mr. Simmons and Major Martingale to make a report on our work at Riverside, and
then I must go home. I did not think I ever would go back. I thought I was
through with empires and kings. I wanted to live where a man could be himself
and not just one of a pattern. But I have a duty over there, I must go back. May
I come for you first, and will you go with me and Joan to my poor changed
Luxembourg? Will you?" His grave eyes searched her face. Rebecca Mary kept her
eyes on the fingers which fumbled so nervously with an end of pink ribbon. It
couldn't be true that this man, who had once been to her like the prince in the
fairy tale, really had asked her to marry him. She must be dreaming. Countess
Ernach de Befort! That didn't sound a bit like Rebecca Mary Wyman. She couldn't
make it sound like Rebecca Mary Wyman. And then she remembered that he never
once had said a word which is usually mentioned in a proposal of marriage. With
a relief so great that it almost choked her, Rebecca Mary understood that
Frederick Befort had asked her to marry him because she had been, as he had
said, heavenly kind to Joan, and not because he loved her so that he could not
live without her. Rebecca Mary believed firmly that love is the only reason for
marriage. And she did not love Count Ernach de Befort. There had been a time
when he had fascinated her, when she had dreamed that perhaps he might some day
ask her to marry him, but that time was past, and anyway fascination was not
love. She tried to think how she could tell him that it wasn't without hurting
his--his pride, for she felt that she had done him an almost irreparable injury
in questioning his honor. Oh, she never could be grateful enough to Richard
Cabot if he hadn't told Frederick Befort that she had questioned his honor.
Perhaps it was the thought of Richard which gave her courage to raise her eyes
to the grave face above her. "I'm--I'm so sorry," she stammered, and she put her
little hand on his sleeve. "But you don't really want me. It's just for Joan.
You don't care for me and--I don't care for you. You know you don't really
care?" Frederick Befort drew his heels together again and bowed ceremoniously
over the small white hand he had taken from his sleeve. "I, too, am sorry," and
his voice sounded sorry, so sorry that just for a second Rebecca Mary thought
she might have been mistaken. "But if I cannot have your love I hope always to
have your friendship?" "You shall!" she promised quickly, glad that she could
give him something that he wanted. "You shall always have my friendship--you and
Joan." He raised her hand to his lips again and went away, taking with him the
only chance Rebecca Mary ever would have to be a countess. Richard passed him as
he came looking for Rebecca Mary, and he stopped to regard him with suspicion.
"What did he want? Did he ask you to marry him, Rebecca Mary?" he demanded so
anxiously that Rebecca Mary could not resent the question. "He was just telling
me how grateful he was for what I did for Joan." Rebecca Mary quite truthfully
translated what Frederick Befort had said to her, and which she had been clever
enough to understand. "I couldn't marry him," she went on quickly. "We belong to
different countries and--and everything. Once I thought I should like to," she
confessed with an adorable blush. "It would have been so romantic to be a
countess. He has taught me a lot about--about Luxembourg and things, but he
doesn't want me to marry him. He is just grateful for what I did for Joan, you
know." [Illustration: "I LOVE YOU, REBECCA MARY"]

The jealousy died out of Richard's face and in its place was an eager
expectation. "Well, I love you, Rebecca Mary," he said quickly. "I care for you
a lot. Could you--do you care for me?" He took her hands and lifted her to her
feet so that she stood before him. And Rebecca Mary confessed that she did, that
she cared a lot for him, she had ever since that day at the bank. "You were
always so--so good to me," she murmured as if she just had to have a reason.
"Good to you!" Richard choked as he took her in his arms and kissed her. "Good
to you, sweetheart! How could a man be anything but good to you? I want to be
good to you all the rest of your life!" Through the open window they could hear
Granny's voice; evidently she was giving a toast for she said--"To all those who
keep their hearts young for they shall live forever!" "That means me," Joan said
shrilly. "For I have a young heart, and I'm going to keep it young forever."
"That means us, too," Richard whispered, his lips very close to Rebecca Mary's
pink ear. "Our hearts are young, aren't they?" "Yes." Rebecca Mary spoke
dreamily, for she felt as if she must be in a dream world. She couldn't be wide
awake and be in Richard's arms. "As long as we have love in our hearts they
can't grow old." "I'm going to live forever!" Joan danced out to tell them her
news. "Granny said I should. Are you, dear Miss Wyman? Do you like the golden
wedding? I'm disappointed in it," she confessed loudly. "It's just like any
grown-up party. I don't see exactly why Granny wanted it so much." "Oh, don't
you, miss?" And there was Granny. "It wasn't like any grown-up party to me, not
a bit! You just have one wedding, Joan, and then you'll understand why I've
wanted fifty. You understand, don't you, Rebecca Mary?" She put her arm around
Rebecca Mary and hugged her after her keen eyes had searched Rebecca Mary's
tell-tale rosy face. "But Miss Wyman hasn't had one wedding." Joan didn't see
why Rebecca Mary should understand so much more than she could. "No, but Miss
Wyman is engaged," Granny told her as if it were a great secret. But every one
heard her, and every one was astonished. No one was more astonished than Rebecca
Mary unless perhaps it was Richard. "Rebecca Mary engaged!" Young Peter couldn't
believe it. "That wasn't fair, Rebecca Mary, not to tell a fellow." "What is she
engaged to?" asked Joan jealously, although she didn't understand what being
engaged meant. Granny told them that, too, before Rebecca Mary could open her
mouth. "To a four-leaf clover. Aren't you, Rebecca Mary?" And then she told them
what had happened to Rebecca Mary the afternoon when she went to the Waloo for
tea, that some one had thrust a four-leaf clover into Rebecca Mary's hand.
Consequently by all the laws of romance Rebecca Mary was engaged to that some
one. "But who was it?" Joan expressed the curiosity which was on every face. "I
wish I knew!" Rebecca Mary had quite forgotten the mystery of the four-leaf
clover in the greater mystery of Richard's love. "Don't you know?" Richard asked
in a queer sort of a voice. Was he jealous? She shook her head. No, she didn't
know. She never had known where that clover leaf had come from but it had
brought her luck. Yes, it had! And she would keep it to her dying day. But she
should like to know who had given it to her. Richard laughed. "Granny," he said,
"come and confess." "Granny!" What had Granny to do with it? A gray-haired old
Granny was not according to the laws of romance. Granny realized that, and she
made her explanation apologetically as if she understood that it might not be
wholly satisfactory. "You were such a dear scowling thunder cloud that afternoon
that I was sorry for you. It seemed such a wicked waste of a perfectly good girl
that I simply had to offer a little first aid. Richard and I talked you
over"----

"Richard!" Rebecca Mary remembered very vividly how curiously Richard had
regarded her over his sandwich. "And we decided, I did at least, that you needed
a little mystery in your life. You looked as if you had been fed entirely too
long on stern reality. It was easy enough to diagnose your case, but we didn't
know how to get the prescription to you until we were all jammed together at the
door. I had the clover leaves in my corsage bouquet, old Peter Simmons had sent
them to me, and I made Richard push one into your hand. He didn't want to do it.
He said it was silly and impertinent." Oh, the scorn in Granny's soft voice.
"But I have a very persuasive way with me at times," she added as Rebecca Mary
stared at her, her mouth and eyes all wide open. "I told him if he didn't do it
I should, and I'd tell you that he did it." Rebecca Mary swung around to look at
Richard. "Then you--you----" but words failed her. It was so altogether as she
wanted it to be. "Yes, I did," admitted Richard with some shame, for there are
those who might think it unseemly for a bank vice-president to slip four-leaf
clovers into the hands of strange scowling girls. "Granny has, as she said, a
very persuasive way with her. I never before did such a thing," he explained
unnecessarily. "And I shouldn't have done it then if I hadn't been so sure that
she would make her threat good." His voice sounded as if even yet he could not
understand how he had let Granny coerce him. "I'll never do it again," he
promised with a rare twinkle in his eyes. "But I did do it that afternoon. Are
you sorry?" Rebecca Mary looked from him to Granny and then back at him again.
But before she could find breath with which to tell him that she was anything
but sorry Granny said slowly, as if she were still visualizing the Waloo tea
room:

"You were with such a dear looking woman that afternoon." "Yes," dimpled Rebecca
Mary, all flushed and sparkling at the astonishing news she had heard. "My
insurance agent. She was trying to persuade me to take out a policy," she
giggled. "And did you?" Joan always wanted to know whether one did or didn't.
"Did I!" Rebecca Mary drew a deep breath as she thought of the policy she had
taken out and the long record of payments she had made on it. "I should say I
did!" "That's all very interesting," Richard broke in after she had told them a
little more about her memory insurance and they had laughed and trooped away
again, "but it interrupted a question that I wish to ask you. What I want to
know is, are you going to marry me?" He put the question in his best vice-
presidential manner, although there was a twinkle in the far corner of his eyes.
Rebecca Mary laughed and twinkled, too. The old negative phrase never came near
her lips. Her cheeks were as pink as pink and her eyes were like stars as
Richard's arm slipped around her shoulders and drew her closer. "Will you marry
me, sweetheart?" he asked her again, very gently this time, not a bit like a
bank vice-president. Rebecca Mary caught her breath. She put up her hand and
clutched the edge of his coat with trembling fingers as if to keep him near her
until she could answer him. Her eyes crinkled and the corners of her mouth
tilted up. My! but she was glad that Cousin Susan had told her what she should
say. "Y-yes," she stuttered, half laughing, half crying. "Y-yes, thank you!"