[Illustration: [See page 118

They sat among the twisted tree roots, and ate and drank and were merry like
children on a holiday.] THE INCREDIBLE HONEYMOON

BY E. NESBIT

AUTHOR OF "THE RED HOUSE" ETC. [Illustration]

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS     NEW YORK AND LONDON

BOOKS BY E. NESBIT

THE INCREDIBLE HONEYMOON Frontispiece. Post 8vo     THE BOOK OF DRAGONS.
Illustrated. 8vo     THE RED HOUSE. Illustrated. Post 8vo     THE ENCHANTED
CASTLE Illustrated. Post 8vo     THE WOULDBEGOODS. Illustrated. Post 8vo

HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK     ESTABLISHED 1817

THE INCREDIBLE HONEYMOON

Copyright, 1916, by Harper & Brothers     Printed in the United States of
America     Published October, 1916

THE INCREDIBLE HONEYMOON

I

THE BEGINNING

TO understand this story you will have to believe in the Greater Gods--Love and
Youth, for example, and Adventure and Coincidence; also in the trusting heart of
woman and the deceitful spirit of man. You will have to reconcile yourself to
the fact that though daily you go to London by the nine-seven, returning by the
five-fifteen, and have your accustomed meals at eight, one, and half-past six,
there are those who take neither trains nor meals regularly. That, while nothing
on earth ever happens to you, there really are on earth people to whom things do
happen. Nor is the possibility of such happenings wholly a matter of the
independent income--the income for which you do not work. It is a matter of the
individual soul. I knew a man whose parents had placed him in that paralyzing
sort of situation which is symbolized by the regular trains and the regular
meals. It was quite a nice situation for some people, a situation, too, in which
one was certain to "get on." But the man I knew had other dreams. He chucked his
job, one fine Saturday morning in May, went for a long walk, met a tinker and
bought his outfit--a wheel on wheels, a sort of barrow with a grindstone on it,
and a pot for putting fire in dangling underneath. This he wheeled profitably
through rural districts--so profitably that he was presently able to buy a
donkey and a cart, and to sell kettles as well as mend them. He has since bought
a gipsy tent; with these impediments--or helps--he travels through the pleasant
country. Things are always happening to him. He has found a buried treasure;
frustrated a burglary; once he rescued a lady in distress; and another time he
killed a man. The background to these dramatic incidents is always the pleasant
background of quiet road, blossoming hedgerows and orchards, corn-fields and
meadows and lanes. He says this is the way to live. I will write down his story
some day, but this is not it. I only bring him in to illustrate my point, which
is that adventures do happen--to the adventurous. My friend the tinker has had,
perhaps, more than his share of adventures, but then his is the temperament that
shoots, like a willing needle, to the great magnet of melodrama. The
temperamental needle of Edward Basingstoke followed the magnet of romance. In a
gayer, if less comfortable, age he might have been a knight-errant, or, at
least, the sympathetic squire of a knight-errant. Had he been born in the days
when most people stayed at home and minded their own business he would have
insisted on going out and minding other people's. Living in the days of
aeroplanes, motors, telegraphy, and cinematographs, in a world noisy with the
nonsense of politics and the press, he told himself that the ideal life was the
life of the farmer who plowed and sowed and reaped, tended his beasts and filled
his barns, and went home from his clean, quiet work to the open hearth whence
the wood smoke curled up to heaven like the smoke of an altar. Destiny, in deep
perversity, was making an engineer of him. He dreamed his pastoral dreams in the
deafening clangor of the shops at Crewe, but not ten thousand hammers could beat
out of his brain the faith that life was really--little as one might suppose it,
just looking at it from Crewe--full of the most beautiful and delicate
possibilities, and that, somehow or other, people got from life what they chose
to take. While he was making up his mind what he should take, he went on
learning his trade. And Destiny seemed determined that he should learn nothing
else. What we call Destiny is really Chance--and so far from being immutable,
she is the veriest flirt and weathercock. She changed her mind about Edward--or
perhaps Death, who is stronger than she, insisted and prevailed. Just at the
time when a faint dust was beginning to settle on his dreams--the sort of dust
that thickens and hardens into clay and you grow cabbages in it--Death
intervened to save him. It was his uncle who died, and he left a will, and by
that will certain property came to Edward. When the news came he took a day to
think of it, and he went to the works as usual that afternoon and the next
morning. But next day at noon he laid down his tools and never took them up
again. Instead he took a ticket to Oxford, appeared at the rooms of his friend,
whom he surprised in slumber, and told his tale. "And you're going to chuck the
shop," said the friend, whose name was Vernon Martingale, and his father a
baronet. "I have chucked the shop," said Edward. "I chucked it at Fate as you
might throw a stone at a dog. And that reminds me--I want a dog. Do you know of
a nice dog--intelligent, good manners, self-respecting, and worthy?" "Any
particular breed?" "Certainly not. These researches into family history are in
the worst possible taste. You don't love me for my pedigree. Why should I love
my dog for his?" "I suppose you want some tea, anyhow," said Martingale. So they
had tea, and talked cricket. "Any idea what you mean to do?" Martingale asked
several times, and at last Edward answered him. "What I mean to do," he said,
"is what I always meant to do. I mean to be a farmer, and hunt, and shoot, and
grow flowers. I think I shall specialize on sunflowers. They're so satisfying."
"More than you are," said Vernon. "Mean to say you're going to buy a farm and
ruin yourself the moment you've got a few half-crowns to ruin yourself with?" "I
am going to be a farmer," said Basingstoke, "but first I am going to see life."
"Life? But you were always so. . . ." "I mean _that_"--Edward indicated the
sunshine outside--"not getting drunk and being disreputable. I can't think why
the deuce-dickens that sort of beastliness is always called seeing life. As if
life were all gas, and wining, and electric light, and the things you don't talk
about before ladies. No, my boy, I'm going out into the unknown--not into the
night, because it happens to be afternoon--and I thought I'd just come and clasp
that hand and gaze once into those eyes before I set my foot on the untrodden
path of adventure. Farewell, Vernon of Martingale, good knight and true! Who
knows when we shall meet again?" "_I_ don't, anyhow," said Vernon, "and that's
why you're not going till the day after to-morrow, and why I insist on knowing
what you mean by seeing life--and why you're going to stay till to-morrow,
anyhow." "Heaven forbid that I should criticize another man's tastes," Edward
sighed, "or deprive him of any innocent enjoyment. If you want me to stay--well,
I'll stay--till to-morrow. And as for what I mean by seeing life--well, I should
have thought even you would have understood that. I'm going to get a stick, and
a knapsack, and a dog, and a different kind of hat, and some very large boots
with nails, and a new suit, only I shall wear it all night before I wear it all
day. Oh, Vernon, can't you guess my simple secret?" "He calls a walking-tour
seeing life!" Vernon pointed out. "And who's going with you and where are you
going? The Hartz Mountains?--the Carpathians?--Margate?--Trouville? What?" "The
person who is going with me," said Edward, "is the dog whom we haven't yet
bought. Come along out and buy him. As to where I'm going, I shall follow the
most ancient of sign-posts--and I know that I can't go wrong." "You will
follow--"

"My nose," Edward explained, kindly--

"That indicator of the place to be,      The Heaven-sent guide to beauty and to
thee. "Do you know, if you talk rot to the chaps at the works they try to
understand what you mean. Like Scotchmen, you know. They think they can
understand anything, no matter how shallow. Now I will say for you that you know
your limitations. Let's buy the dog, my son, and get a canoe." They did. And the
dog upset the canoe. II

MAKING AN AEROPLANE

THE Five Bells was asleep; asleep, at least, was the face with which it met the
world. In the brick-floored kitchen, out of sight and hearing of the road, the
maid was singing as she sluiced the bricks with a white mop; but if she and her
mop had been state secrets, matters of life and death, they could not have been
more safely hidden from any chance passer. In the bar the landlord was asleep
behind the _Lewes Gazette and South Coast Journal_. In the parlor the landlady
was asleep behind a screen of geraniums and campanulas. The ornamental clock on
the mantelpiece said, most untruly, ten minutes to eight. Really it was four
o'clock, the sleepiest hour in the day. The flies buzzed in the parlor window;
in the bar the wasps buzzed in the bottle that had seemed so sweet a bourn to
each as it drifted in from the out-of-door heat to the cool darkness of the
sanded bar. On the broad, white door-step the old cat slept, his person nicely
adjusted to the sun and shade, his flanks in the sunshine and his head in the
shadow of the porch. The white blind of the window swelled out, now and then,
like a sail, because in this sort of weather one leaves all doors and windows
open. In the yard some one had drawn a bucket of water--the brown oak and the
brown iron of the bucket were still wet, and still wet the trail it had made
where it was carried to the old bath that the chickens drank from. But the trail
was drying quickly, and the hens, having had their drink, had gone to sleep in
the hollows they had scooped for themselves in the dust of their inclosure. Some
one had been chopping wood, for a few chips lay round the block, in which the
bill was stuck by its sharp edge. The man who attended to the wood and water was
asleep, standing against the ladder that led from the stable to the hay-loft--a
convenient position, and, if you were wanted in a hurry, not compromising, as
lying down would be. To right and left the road stretched, very white and
shining, between dusty hedgerows and scattered cottages whose drawn blinds
looked like the eyelids of sleepers. The whole village was asleep, it seemed--
only a boy and a dog were awake. The boy had not gone to school because he had
torn his every-day trousers on a nail in the stable. To wear his Sunday trousers
was, of course, out of the question. And to mend the every-day trousers would
take time. So Tommy was put to bed, nominally as a punishment for not looking
where he was going--a most unfair implication, for the nail had attacked him in
the rear. Children do not go to sleep when they are put to bed as a punishment.
They cry, if their spirit has been broken by unkindness; if not, they lie and
meditate mischief. Tommy waited till the afternoon silence settled on the house,
and then very carefully and slowly crept down the stairs in his nightshirt,
dodged Gladys and the mop, and reached the larder. Here he secured a flead-cake,
a raisin-cake, and an apple, dodged Gladys again, and reached the back door,
where he stood looking out at the yard. It would be silly to go back to bed.
Mother would not be awake for a good half-hour yet. There would be time to get
to the stable, climb into the loft, and eat his booty there. It would be safer,
in one way, and in another more adventurous. He stooped till his head was below
the kitchen window and crept by, skirting the walls of the yard till he reached
the stable door, and next moment was safe in the half-darkness where the
sunlight through the cracks of the door made dusty shafts of radiance. The
familiar smell of hay and horses charmed him, as it always did. Ah, there was
Robert, asleep as usual. Well, even if Robert woke, he could be trusted not to
tell. Tommy climbed into the manger of one of the empty stalls, and just as he
got his knee on it some one behind pushed him with sudden and incredible
violence. He fell heavily, dropped his plunder, and found himself involved in
the enthusiastic embraces of a large, strange, white dog, which in one
breathless instant licked his face all over, trampled on his stomach, made two
mouthfuls of the flead-cake and the raisin-cake, rolled the apple in the muck of
the stable, snorted in a sort of brutal ecstasy, and bolted heavily out into the
sunshine. It was too much. The sudden and brutal attack overcame all
considerations of prudence. Tommy forgot where he was, and why; the dangers of
his situation were nothing beside the outrage of this unprovoked assault and
theft. Robert was awakening slowly. If he had been awake before he might have
repulsed the enemy. Tommy opened his mouth to howl, but the howl changed to a
scream, for there was the dog back again, snuffing loudly in the straw and
fawning at Tommy as on an old and valued friend. "Charles!" a stern voice called
from the yard, "come here, sir." The dog wagged a muscular tail and grinned at
Tommy, as though inviting him to share the joke. The stable door was darkened by
a form. Even in the difficulties of repulsing the dog's attention without
irritating it, the child found time to be glad that the darkening form was that
of a stranger. "Call him off, if he's your dog," Tommy urged, thickly, backing
against the manger. "Might as well call him off, sir," Robert--now almost awake
--conceded. The stranger stepped forward, a snap clicked, and Charles, still
widely smiling, was straining at the end of a leathern thong. "I hope he didn't
frighten you," said the stranger. "He bunted at me with his great head," said
Tommy, with half a sob, "and then he eat up what I'd got, and hooked it off
again afore you could say knife." "What had you got?" "Nothing," said Tommy,
remembering caution, "at least--"

"The jingling of the guinea heals," said the stranger, incomprehensibly. "Would
sixpence be any comfort to you?" Tommy's eyes answered, and the stranger held it
out. "Thank you, sir," said Tommy, and added, in close imitation of his father's
manner to thirsty travelers, "Going far to-day, sir?" "I was thinking," said the
stranger, "of putting up here." "Then," said Tommy, with great presence of mind,
"please don't say anything to them about the dog eating--what he did eat--nor me
being here in my shirt, nor about Robert being asleep. If you'll go round to the
front, sir, you'll find the bar, and that'll give me a chance to slip back to
bed, sir, if you'd be so kind." "I see," said the stranger, "you were sent to
bed." "In punishment like," said Tommy, "so you see I don't want to. . . ."
"Exactly. An unobserved retreat. I will draw the enemy's fire from the front
premises. Come, Charles." Charles obeyed, only pausing to entangle the lead in
the handle of a shovel and to bring this down upon the feet of Robert, to upset
a sieve of chaff and run between his master's legs with a sudden violence which,
but for the support of the door-post, would have thrown him to the ground.
"Nice-spoken young man," said Robert. "Now, young Tommy, you cut along back
where you belong. I'll be asking Gladys the time to keep her off of the back
door while you slips in, you young limb." He strolled across to the window as
Tommy's bare feet trod the sun-warmed bricks to the back door. As the child
crept up the stairs he heard the stranger's voice in the bar. "Sixpence," said
Tommy, in ecstasy, "and him going to put up here." He cuddled down into his bed
well satisfied with the afternoon's adventure. Adventures are, indeed, to the
adventurous. "If I'd 'a' bin a good boy and stayed in bed nothing wouldn't have
happened," was how he put it to himself. Meanwhile the stranger, encumbered by
the striving Charles, was "being shown the rooms"--the bare, much-scrubbed
bedroom, the all-too-full and too-carpeted parlor. "They are exactly what I
want," he said, and so won the heart of his hostess. When Tommy, his trousers
restored, came down to tea he was warned not to go clamping about in his boots,
because there was a gentleman in the parlor. Tommy fingered the sixpence in his
pocket and said nothing; his mouth was, indeed, far too full for words. That
evening in the parched orchard behind the house Tommy came edging shyly toward
the stranger as he lounged under the trees smoking a fat pipe. "Hullo, young
man!" was the greeting. "Come here and talk to me." Tommy dumbly drew near. "Got
your trousers back, I see," said the stranger, genially. Tommy admitted it with
a grunt. The stranger nodded and took his pipe out of his mouth. "Ever see a
pig?" he asked. Tommy grunted again. "I see you have. You speak their language
awfully well." The stranger uttered a sound which Tommy recognized and smiled to
hear. "That's what the pigs say," said the stranger. "Agreeable little boys who
have recovered their trousers say 'Yes' or 'No' when their friends ask them
questions. Don't they?" "I dun'no'," said Tommy. "Oh yes, you do. Because I've
told you. Now what would you like to do?" "I dun'no'." "I can't tell you that
you know, because I don't know myself. But I'll put it to you like this: If you
can make up your mind to talk the language of agreeable little boys who have
recovered their trousers, I am disposed to endure your company and even to
assist you in any play you may have in hand. But I can't associate with a person
who grunts at me. If you want to grunt, go and grunt at some one who likes it. I
don't." "I didn't go for to," Tommy urged. "Handsomely admitted. I accept your
apology. You don't know what you'd like to do, I say. Well, is there anything
you'd like to _have_? I'm living the idle life, Tommy, and my hands are
beginning to ache for want of something to do. I want to make something. Ever
make anything?" "I made a rabbit-hutch, onst," Tommy owned, "but the door warn't
straight on her hinges. And I tried a kite--but it stuck to me and come to bits
afore ever it was dry." "Look here," said the stranger, sitting up, "what about
a kite? I could make you a kite as big as a house or a fire-balloon. Would you
like that?" Tommy began a grunt, pretended that it had been a cough, and turned
that into, "Yes, please, sir." "We must restrain Charles," said the stranger,
turning to the large white dog, who sat with feet firmly planted, smiling a
wide, pink smile, "or this kite will certainly stick to _him_ and come to pieces
afore _it's_ dry. Where's the shop?" "Down street," said Tommy. "I could pop
down street in a minute for the paper and things." "Sure you'd rather have a
kite than anything else?" Tommy hesitated, and then said of course he'd rather
have a hairyplane, but he supposed the stranger couldn't. To which the stranger
startlingly replied, "Oh, couldn't I, my boy! Father got a horse and trap?" he
went on. And from that moment the most wonderful four days of Tommy's life moved
forward majestically without pause or let. To drive into Eastbourne with the
gentleman--rather slow the old horse was, but it was the best trap--to hold the
reins outside important and unusual shops, including the Eastbourne Motor-Car
Company and the telegraph-office at the station; to be taken to dinner at a fine
hotel with flowers in all the windows, and real waiters dressed exactly like the
gentlemen who sang at the school concert, white ties and all--or just like the
butler at Mr. Ferney's who had the training-stables--and such things to eat as
Tommy "never did." The horse and trap were put up at Mr. Pettigrew's Livery and
Bait Stables, in itself an act of unheard-of daring and extravagance. And after
dinner the stranger got a motor-car--a real private one--none of your red flags
and mustn't ride on the front seat, where, in fact, he and the stranger did,
with great dash and daring, actually ride. And they went to Pevensy and
Hurstmonceau and Hastings, and the stranger told Tommy stories about the places,
so that history was never quite itself again to Tommy. Then back to Eastbourne,
to call again at the unusual shops, as well as at one of the more usual
character, where the stranger bought toffee and buns and cake and peppermint
creams; to get a parcel from the station, and so home round the feet of the
downs in the pleasant-colored evening, with the dust white on the hedges, and
the furze in flower, and the skylarks singing "fit to bu'st theirselves," as
Tommy pointed out when the stranger called his attention to the little, dark,
singing specks against the clear sky, the old white horse going at a spanking
pace. No one would have believed he had it in him, compared to what he was in
the morning; and drawing up very short and sharp in front of the porch--no
driving into the yard and just calling for Robert--and father himself coming out
to take the reins. Oh, that was a day! To the stranger, also, whose name, it
will surprise you little to learn, was Edward Basingstoke, the home-coming was
not without charm. The day before he had been welcomed as a guest; now he was
welcomed as a friend, one who had taken Tommy for an outing and spent money on
him like water. Any one could see that from the parcels the child had his arms
full of. Robert in the stable, hearing the return, and heartened by the
unmistakable attitude of the family, loosened Charles from the taut chain at
whose end he had choked all day, and sent him flying like a large white bullet
into the bar, where his master was standing. Charles knocked over a table and
three glasses, trod on the edge of a spittoon and upset it, and the landlord
said it didn't matter! Could any reception have been more warmly welcoming? It
charmed Edward so much that he said, "When Tommy's face is washed, might he have
tea with me to finish up the day?" And this, too, happened. And after tea, when
Charles had been partially calmed by five whole buns, eaten in five eager
mouthfuls, they undid the parcels, and Tommy reveled in the tools and metals,
the wood, the canvas, the dozen other things he knew neither the names nor the
uses of. And when it was time to say good night and they had said it, Tommy
wanted to say something else. He stood by the parlor door, shuffling his boots
and looking with blue, adoring eyes at the stranger. "I say," he said. "Well,
what _do_ you say?" "I say," was still all that Tommy said. "Yes, I hear you do.
But what?" "I'm right-down glad you come here to stay, instead of going on to
Wilmington, like what you might have," was the most Tommy could do. Then he
added, after a fierce, brief struggle between affection and shyness: "I do take
it very kind, sir--and the peppermints, and all. Good night, sir." It was the
happiest day Edward had spent since he left Crewe. And next day they began to
make the aeroplane. I do not know how toy aeroplanes are made. There may be a
hundred ways of making them. If there are, Mr. Basingstoke knew at least one of
these ways, and it was quite a good way, too. The village carpenter and the
village blacksmith each was visited--I know that--and a good deal of the work
was done at the carpenter's bench. And at the end of the third day the toy was
ready. "We'll fly it in the morning," said Mr. Basingstoke. "Are you glad it's
done? Sure you wouldn't have liked a kite better?" "Not by long chalks," was
Tommy's fervent answer. The little aeroplane sat on the little stand the
carpenter had made for it, shiny with varnish, white with canvas, glittering in
all its metal mysteries. "Jiminy!" said Tommy, awe-stricken at his own good
fortune, "I didn't know anybody could be so clever as what you are." Edward
Basingstoke, as he went to bed, wondered whether, after all, he could spend his
money to any better purpose than going about the country making aeroplanes to
please little boys. III

EDEN

WHEN you have made an aeroplane, the next thing is to make it fly. And however
agreeable an admiring audience may be while one is fiddling with definite and
concrete objects of wood, canvas, and metal, one is apt, for the flight itself--
the great flight, the flight by which the aeroplane shall stand or fall--to
desire solitude. That was why Edward drew the yellow blind up and the dimity
curtain aside and turned his bed round, so that the sun at its first rising
should strike through his dreams and awaken him. The sun did exactly what it was
expected to do, and Edward awoke saying "Bother" before he remembered that
"Bother" was not at all what he meant. Then he got up and splashed gently, so as
not to break the audible sleep of the people in the next room, stole down the
creaking, twisted stairs in his tennis-shoes, soft-footed as a cat, drew the
bolts of the back door, and slipped out, closing the door noiselessly behind
him. He was careful to draw the bolt into its place again by means of a bit of
fishing-line. You can do this quite easily with an old door that does not fit
very closely--if you are careful to mark with chalk on the outside of the door,
as Edward did, the exact place where the bolt is. Having thus secured the door
against passing tramps or burglars, he went out across the highroad, soft with
thick, white dust, where the dew lay on hedge and grassy border, and the sun
made diamonds of the dew. Charles, choking himself in the stable, grew faint
with distance. Beyond the village was a meadow suited to his needs. It was
bordered on one side by a high red-brick wall, above whose moss-grown coping the
rounded shapes of trees leaned. A wood edged it on two other sides, and in the
front was a road. Here he made his preparations, wound up his machine, and,
after one or two false starts, got it going. He meant to fly it like a kite, and
to this end he had tied one end of a ball of fine twine to the middle of its
body. Now he raised it above his head and launched it. The little creature rose
like a bird; the ball of string leaped and jumped between his feet, as he paid
out the line; the whirring wings hung poised a second, at the level of the tree-
tops, and then, caught by the wind, sailed straight toward the red wall,
burrowed into the trees, and stopped. He ran toward the wall, winding up the
string, and stood below, looking up. He could not see the winged loose thing. He
tweaked the string and his tweak was met with uncompromising resistance. The
aeroplane had stuck in a chestnut-tree, and hung there, buzzing. Edward measured
the wall with his eye. It was an old wall, of soft red brick, from which the
mortar had fallen away. In its crannies moss grew, and ragged-robin and ground-
ivy hung their delicate veil in the angles of its buttresses--little ferns and
wall-flowers run to seed marked its courses, the yellow snapdragon which English
children call toad-flax flaunted its pure sulphur-colored plumes from the ledge
below the coping. An architect would have said that the wall wanted pointing; a
builder would have pointed it--an artist would have painted it. To an engineer
in grief for a lost toy the wall presented itself as an obstacle to be climbed.
He climbed it. He thrust the string into his jacket pocket, and presently set
hand and foot to the hold that the worn wall afforded. In half a minute he was
astride the coping; next moment he had swung by his hands and let himself go on
the wall's other side. It was a longer drop than he expected; it jarred him a
little, and his hat tumbled off. As he picked this up he noticed that the wall
on the inside had been newly pointed. The trees were a good thirty feet from the
wall. There would be no getting back by the way he had come. He must find a
gate. Meantime the little aeroplane's buzzing had grown faint and ceased. But
the twine led him to the tree, as the silken clue led Queen Eleanor to the tower
of Fair Rosamond. The next thing was to climb the tree and bring down the truant
toy. The park spread smooth and green before him--the green smoothness that
comes only to English grass growing where grass has been these many years. Quiet
trees dotted the smooth greenness--thickening about the house, whose many
chimneys, red and twisted, rose smokeless above the clustered green. Nothing
moved in all the park, where the sun drank the dew; birds stirred and twittered
in the branches--that was all. The little aeroplane had stopped its buzzing.
Edward was moved to thank Fate that he had not brought Charles. Also he was glad
that this trespass of his had happened so early. He would get down the aeroplane
and quietly go out by the lodge gate. Even if locked, it would be climbable. The
chestnut-tree, however, had to be climbed first. It was easy enough, though the
leaves baffled him a little, so that it was some time before he saw the desired
gleam of metal and canvas among the dappled foliage. Also, it was not quite easy
to get the thing down without injuring it, and one had to go slowly. He lowered
it, at last, by its string to the ground from the lowest branch, then moved
along a little, hung by his hands, and dropped. He picked up the toy and turned
to go. "Oh!" he said, without meaning to. And, "I beg your pardon," without
quite knowing what for. Because, as he turned he came face to face with a
vision, the last one would have expected to see in an English park at early day.
A girl in a Burmese coat, red as poppies, with gold-embroidered hem a foot deep.
Her dress was white. Her eyes were dark, her face palely bright, and behind her
dark head a golden-green Japanese umbrella made a great ridged halo. "I beg your
pardon," said Edward again, and understood that it was because he was, after
all, trespassing. "I should think you did," said the vision, crossly. "What on
earth do you mean by it? How did you get in?" Edward, standing a little
awkwardly with the aeroplane in his hands, looked toward the wall. "I came over
after this," he said. "I'm very sorry. I was flying the thing and it stuck in
the tree. If you'll tell me the way to the lodge, I'll--I hope I didn't scare
you." "I couldn't think what it was," she answered, a little less crossly. "I
saw the tree tossing about as if--as if it had gone mad." "And you thought of
dryads and hastened to the spot. And it was only an idiot and his aeroplane. I
say--I _am_ sorry--"

"You can't help not being a dryad," she said, and now she smiled, and her smile
transformed her face as sunlight does a landscape. "What I really thought you
were was a tramp. Only tramps never climb trees. I couldn't think how you got in
here, though. Tramps never climb walls. They get in sometimes through the oak
fence beyond the plantations." "It was very intrepid of you to face a tramp," he
said. "Oh, I love tramps," she said; "they're always quite nice to you if you
don't bully them or patronize them. There were two jolly ones last week, and I
talked to them, and they made tea out in the road, you know, and gave me a cup
over the fence. It _was_ nasty." She shuddered a little. "But I liked it
awfully, all the same," she added. "I wish I were a tramp." "It's not a bad
life," said he. "It's _the_ life," she said, enthusiastically. "No ties, no
responsibilities--no nasty furniture and hateful ornaments--you just go where
you like and do what you like; and when you don't like where you are, you go
somewhere else; and when you don't like what you're doing, you needn't go on
doing it." "Those are very irresponsible sentiments--for a lady." "I know.
That's why I think it's so dull being a woman. Men can do whatever they want
to." "Only if they haven't their living to earn," said Edward, not quite so much
to himself as he would have liked. There was a little pause, and then, still
less himself, he blundered into, "I say, it is jolly of you to talk to me like
this." She froze at once. "I forgot," she said, "that we had not been
introduced. Thank you for reminding me." Edward's better self was now wholly
lost, and what was left of him could find nothing better to answer than, "Oh, I
say!" "What I ought to have said," she went on, her face a mask of cold
politeness, "is that you can't possibly get out by the lodge. There are fierce
dogs. And the lodge-keepers are worse than the dogs. If you will follow me--at a
distance, for fear I should begin to talk to you again--I'll show you where the
gardener's ladder is, and you can put it up against the wall and get out that
way." "Couldn't I get out where the tramps get in?" he asked, humbly. "I don't
like to trouble you." "Not from here. We should have to pass close by the
house." The "we" gave him courage. "I say--do forgive me," he said. "There's
nothing to forgive," said she. "Oh, but do," he said, "if you'd only see it! It
was just because it was so wonderful and splendid to have met you like this . .
. and to have you talk to me as you do to the other tramps." "You're not a
tramp," she said, "and I ought not to have forgotten it." "But I am," said he,
"it's just what I really and truly am." "Come and get the ladder," said she, and
moved toward the wall. "Not unless you forgive me. I won't," he added, plucking
up a little spirit, "be indebted for ladders to people who won't forgive a man
because he speaks the truth clumsily." "Come," she said, looking back over her
shoulder. "No," he said, obstinately, not moving. "Not unless you forgive me."
"It can't possibly matter to you whether I forgive you or not," she turned to
say it. And as she spoke there came to Edward quite suddenly and quite
unmistakably the knowledge that it did matter. Sometimes glimpses do thus
suddenly and strangely come to us--and that by some magic inner light that is
not reason we know things that by the light of reason we could never know. "Look
here," he said. "I'll go after that ladder in a minute. But first I've got
something to say to you. Don't be angry, because I've got to say it. Do you know
that just now--just before I said that stupid thing that offended you--you were
talking to me as though you'd known me all your life?" "You needn't rub it in,"
she said. "Do you know why that is? It's because you _are_ going to know me all
your life. I'm perfectly certain of it. Somehow or other, it's true. We're going
to be friends. I sha'n't need to say again how jolly it is of you to talk to me.
We shall take all that as a matter of course. People aren't pitchforked into
meetings like this for nothing. I'm glad I said that. I'm glad you were angry
with me for saying it. If you hadn't I might just have gone away and not known
till I got outside--and then it would have been a deuce and all of a business to
get hold of you again. But now I know. And you know, too. When shall I see you
again? Never mind about forgiving me. Just tell me when I shall see you again.
And then I'll go." "You must be mad," was all she could find to say. She had
furled her sunshade and was smoothing its bamboo ribs with pink fingers. "You'll
be able to find out whether I'm mad, you know, when you see me again. As a
matter of fact--which seems maddest, when you meet some one you want to talk to,
to go away without talking or to insist on talk and more talk? And you can't say
you didn't want to talk to me, because you know you did. Look here, meet me to-
morrow morning again--will you?" "Certainly not." "You'll be sorry if you don't.
We're like two travelers who have collected all sorts of wonderful things in
foreign countries. We long to show each other our collections--all the things
we've thought and dreamed. If we'd been what you call introduced, perhaps we
shouldn't have found this out. But as it is, we know it." "Speak for yourself,"
she said. "Thank you," he said, seriously. "I will. Will you sit down for ten
minutes? This tree-root was made for you to sit down on for ten minutes, and I
will speak for myself." "I can't," she said, and her voice--there was hurry in
it, and indecision, but the ice had gone. "You must come at once for that
ladder. It's getting more dangerous every moment. If any one saw you here
there'd be an awful row." "For you?" "Yes, for me. Come on." He followed her
along the wall under the chestnuts. There was no more spoken words till they
came to the ladder. Then, "Right," he said. "Thank you. Good-by." And set the
ladder against the wall. "Good-by," said she. "I'll hand the aeroplane up to
you?" "Stand clear," he said, half-way up the ladder. "I'll give it a sideways
tip from the top--it'll fall into its place. It's too heavy for you to lift.
Good-by." He had reached the top of the wall. She stood below, looking up at
him. "There won't be any row now?" "No. It's quite safe." "Then have you nothing
to say?" "Nothing. Yes, I have. I will come to-morrow. You'll misunderstand
everything if I don't." "Thank you," he said. She came up the ladder, two steps,
then handed him his toy. Then the ladder fell with a soft thud among the moss
and earth and dead leaves; his head showed a moment above the wall, then
vanished. He went thoughtfully through the dewy grass, along the road, and back
to his inn. Tommy met him by the horse-trough. "You been flying it?" he asked,
breathlessly. "Yes. She went like a bird." "How far did she go?" Tommy asked. "I
don't quite know," said Edward, quite truly, "how far she went. I shall know
better to-morrow." IV

THE SOUTH DOWNS

THE day was long. Though the aeroplane flew to admiration, though Tommy adored
him and all his works, though the skylarks sang, and the downs were drenched in
sunshine, Edward Basingstoke admitted to himself, before half its length was
known to him, that the day was long. He climbed the cliff above Cuckmere and sat
in the sunshine there, where the gulls flashed white wings and screamed like
babies; he watched the tide, milk-white with the fallen chalk of England's edge,
come sousing in over the brown, seaweed-covered rocks; he felt the crisp warmth
of the dry turf under his hand, and smelt the sweet smell of the thyme and the
furze and the sea, and it was all good. But it was long. And, for the first time
in his life, being alone was lonely. And for the second time since the day when
Charles, bounding at him from among the clean straw of an Oxford stable, had
bounded into his affections, he had left that strenuous dog behind. He got out
his road map and spread it in the sun--with stones at the corners to cheat the
wind that, on those Downs, never sleeps--and tried to believe that he was
planning his itinerary, and even to pretend to himself that he should start to-
morrow and walk to Lewes. But instead his eyes followed the map's indication of
the road to that meadow where the red wall was, and presently he found that he
was no longer looking at the map, but at the book of memory, and most at the
pictures painted there only that morning. Already it seemed a very long time
ago. "I am afraid," said Mr. Basingstoke, alone at the cliff's edge, "that this
time it really is _it_. It's different from what I thought. It's confoundedly
unsettling." Like all healthy young men, he had always desired and intended to
fall in love; he had even courted the experience, and honestly tried to lose his
heart, but with a singular lack of success. In the girls he had met he had found
gaiety, good looks, and a certain vague and general attractiveness--the common
attribute of youth and girlhood--but nothing that even began to transfigure the
world as his poets taught him that love should transfigure it. The little,
trivial emotions which he had found in pressing hands and gazing into eyes had
never lured him further than the gaze and the hand-clasp. Yet he had thought
himself to be in love more than once. "Or perhaps this isn't the real thing,
either," he tried to reassure himself. "How could it be?" Then he explained to
himself, as he had often explained to Vernon, that love at first sight was
impossible. Love, he had held and proclaimed, was not the result of the mere
attraction exercised by beauty--it was the response of mind to mind, the
admiration of character and qualities--the satisfaction of one's nature by the
mental and moral attributes of the beloved. That was not exactly how he had put
it, but that was what he had meant. And now--he had seen a girl once, for ten
minutes, and already he could think of nothing else. Even if he thought of
something else he could perceive the thought of her behind those other thoughts,
waiting, alluring, and sure of itself, to fill his mind the moment he let it in.
"Idiot," he said at last, got up from the turf, and pocketed the map, "to-morrow
she'll be quite ordinary and just like any other girl. You go for a long walk,
young-fellow-my-lad, and think out a water-mill for Tommy." This had, indeed,
been more than half promised. Mr. Basingstoke was one of those persons whom
their friends call thorough; their enemies say that they carry everything too
far. If he did a thing at all, he liked to do it thoroughly. If he wrote a duty-
letter to an aunt, he wrote a long one, and made it amusing. As often as not he
would illustrate it with little pictures. If he gave a shilling to a beggar he
would immediately add tobacco and agreeable conversation. One of his first acts,
on coming into his inheritance, had been to pension his old nurse, who was poor
and a widow with far too many children--too many, because she was a widow and
poor and had to go out to work instead of looking after her family, as she
wanted to do. Any one else would have written and told her she was to have two
pounds a week as long as she lived. Edward sent her a large box of hot-house
flowers--her birthday happening to occur at about that date--the most expensive
and beautiful flowers he could find, anonymously. Then he sent her a fat hamper
bursting with excellent things to eat and drink--and a box of toys and clothes
for the children. The lady who "served" him with the clothes was amused at his
choice--but approved it. And in the end he told his solicitors--smiling to
himself at the novel possession--to write and tell the woman that an old
employer had secured her an annuity. Later he went down to see her, to find her
incredibly happy and prosperous, and to hear the wonderful and mysterious tale.
So now, in the case of Tommy, most people would have thought an aeroplane and a
motor-ride as much as any little boy could expect. But Mr. Basingstoke liked to
give people much more than they could expect. It was not enough to give them
enough. He liked to give a feast. That evening after tea, Tommy breathing hard
on the back of his neck, he sketched the water-wheel with the highest degree of
precision and a superfluous wealth of detail. But the thought was with him
through it all. Next morning he went to the trysting-place, through the fresh,
sweet morning. He climbed the wall, sat down on the log, and waited. He waited
an hour, and she did not come. It says a good deal for his tenacity of purpose
that when he went home he began at once on the water-wheel. In the afternoon he
took Charles out for a walk. Charles chased and killed a hen, and was butted by
a goat, before they reached the end of the street; knocked a leg of mutton off
the block at the butcher's in the next village; bit the rural police to the very
undershirt, and also to the tune of ten compensating shillings; and was run over
by a bicycle, which twisted its pedal in the consequent fall, and grazed its
rider's hands and trousers knees. After each adventure Charles was firmly
punished, but, though chastised, he was not chastened, and when they met a dog-
cart coming slowly down a hill he was quite ready to run in front of it, barking
and leaping at the horse's nose. The horse, which appeared to Charles's master
to be a thoroughbred, shied. There was a whirl of dust and hoofs and brown
flank, a cry from the driver--another cry, a fierce bark from Charles, ending in
a howl of agony--the next instant the horse had bolted and Edward was left in
the dusty road, Charles writhing in the dust, and the dog-cart almost out of
sight. "Charles, old man--Charles, lie still, can't you? Let me see if you're
hurt." He stooped, and as he stooped Charles did lie still. His master lifted
the heavy, muscular body that had been so full of life and energy. It lay limp
and lifeless, head and hind-quarters drooping over his arm like a wet shawl.
Basingstoke sat down on the roadside with the dog across his knees. For him the
light of life was out. Men do not cry, of course, as women do when their dogs
die, but he could not see very clearly. Presently he found himself face to face
with that question, always so disconcerting, even to criminals--what to do with
the body. He was miles from his inn, and Charles was no light weight. He could
not leave the dog in the road. His friend must have decent burial. There was
nothing for it but to wait till some cart should come by and then to ask for a
lift. So he sat there, thinking such thoughts as men do think in adversity.
After a calamity, when the first excitement of horror dies down, one always
says, "How different everything was yesterday!" and Mr. Basingstoke said what we
all say. Yesterday Charles was alive and well, and his master had not taken him
out because he wanted to be at leisure to think--he realized that now--about the
girl whom he was to have met to-day. And he had not met the girl. And Charles
was dead. "I wish I hadn't left you at home yesterday, old boy," said Mr.
Basingstoke. And then came the sound of hoofs, and he prepared to stop the
vehicle, whatever it was, and beg for a lift for himself and what he carried.
But when the wheels came near and he saw that it was the very cart that had run
over Charles he sat down again and kept his eyes on the ground. It wasn't their
fault, of course, but still. . . . The cart stopped and some one was saying: "I
hope the dog isn't much hurt." A hard, cold voice it was. Edward got out his
hand from under Charles to take his hat off, and said: "My dog is dead." "I am
extremely sorry, but it was the dog's fault," said the voice, aggressively.
"Yes," said Edward. "There's nothing to be done," said the voice. "It was nearly
a nasty accident for us." "I apologize for my dog's conduct," said Edward,
formally. And then came another voice, "But, Aunt Loo, can't we _do_ anything?"
Of course you will have known all along whose voice that would be. Edward was
less discerning. He had been far too much occupied with Charles and the horse to
do more than realize that the two people in the cart were women--and now when he
heard again the voice that had talked to him yesterday in the freshness of the
morning, the shock sent his blood surging. He looked up--face, neck, ears were
burning. Men do not blush, but if they did you would have said that Mr.
Basingstoke blushed in that hour. He looked up. Holding the reins was a hard,
angular woman of fifty, the sort that plays golf and billiards and is perfectly
competent with horses. Beside her sat the girl, and under her white hat the
crimson of her face matched his own. The distress he felt at this unpropitious
coincidence deepened his color. Hers deepened, too. "You can't do anything,
thank you," he said, just a moment too late. For his pause had given the aunt
time to look from one to the other. "Oh!" she said, shortly. The girl spoke,
also just too late. "At least, let us take the poor, dear dog home for you," she
said. "By all means," said the aunt, with an air of finality. "Where shall we
leave it?" "I am at the Five Bells, in Jevington," said Edward, and was thankful
to feel his ears a shade less fiery. "I see," said the aunt, with hideous
significance. "Put it in at the back, will you?" She spoke as though Charles
were a purchase she had just made and Mr. Basingstoke the shopman. He would have
liked to refuse, but how dear of her to suggest it. "Thank you," he said, and
came through the dust to the back of the cart. Almost before he had replaced the
second pin the cart moved, and he was left alone in the white road. The way home
was long and dismal--its only incident the finding of a little white
handkerchief in the dust about a mile from the scene of the tragedy. It was
softly scented. Of course it might be Aunt Loo's handkerchief, but he preferred
to think that it was Hers. He shook the dust from it and put it in his pocket.
As he came down the village street he remembered how, only yesterday, he had
heard, just here by the saddler's, that strangled, choking bark which betokened
Charles's recognition of his master's approach. Well, there would be no such
barking welcome for him now. Some other dog was choking and barking, though, and
in that very stable where Charles had choked and barked. And Charles's body
would have been put in the stable, no doubt. He would go round and see. He went
round, opened the stable door, and next moment was struck full in the chest by
what seemed to be a heavy missive hurled with tremendous force. It was Charles,
who had leaped from the end of his chain to greet his master--Charles, alive and
almost idiotic in his transports of uncouth affection. Edward felt the dog all
over--to see if any bones were broken. Charles never winced. There was not a cut
or a bruise on him! The two sat on the straw embracing for quite a long time.
"Yes, sir, seems quite himself, don't he?" said Robert. "Miss Davenant she
brought him. Told me to tell you the dog come to himself quite sudden on the
cart. Must have fainted, young miss said, and when he come to it was all she
could do to hold him down. He seems to have come to quite sudden and all wild-
like among their legs in the bottom of the cart till miss dragged him out--
nearly upset the old lady right out of the cart, coming up sudden under her
knees. Awful nasty she was about it. Said the dog must have been shamming. Thank
you, sir. I'll drink your health and the dog's." "Shamming, indeed!" said Edward
to himself, and resented the cruel and silly aspersion. Yet, stay, was it really
quite impossible that Charles, fearing that the same punishment might visit this
last exploit as had followed his earlier outrages, had really shammed, to disarm
a doting master? Edward put away the thought. It was impossible. The main thing
was that Charles was alive. But, after all, _was_ that the main thing? Now that
the dog was alive it suddenly ceased to be. The main thing was that he had not
seen her that morning and that he must, somehow, see her again. Somehow. But
how? This gave him food for thought. He went into his parlor and sat down--to
think. But, try as he could, there seemed no way. Of course he could go next
morning--of course he would go next morning--and every morning for a week. But
if she hadn't come to-day, why should she come to-morrow or the next day, or the
day after that? Or the handkerchief. Wouldn't it be natural that he should call
to return it and to thank them for taking care of the lifeless Charles, and
apologize for that thoughtless animal's inconvenient and sudden change of
attitude? Yes, that would have been natural if the girl had not blushed and if
he had not turned scarlet. He took out the handkerchief and spread it on the
table--what silly little things girls' handkerchiefs were! Then he looked at it
more closely. Then he took it to the window, stretched it tightly, and looked
more closely than ever. Yes, there was something on it, something intended--not
just the marks of the road. There were letters--pencil letters an inch or more
long, very rough and straggling, but quite unmistakable--_Ce soir 12 heures._ At
least, it might be 13, but, then, she wasn't an Italian. The light of life
blazed up, and the world suddenly became beautiful again. She had not forgotten
--she had wished to come to meet him--something had prevented her coming in the
morning. But to-night she would come. Twelve o'clock! A strange hour to choose.
Bah! who was he to cavil at the hour she chose to set? How sweet and soft the
handkerchief was! V

LA MANCHE

THE bolts of the back door did not creak at all when, at twenty minutes to
twelve, Edward Basingstoke let himself out. Tommy always saw to the bolts, for
his own purposes, with a feather and a little salad oil. The night was sweet and
dark under the trees and in among the houses. In the village no lamp gleamed at
any window. Beyond the village, the starshine and dew lent a gray shimmer to
field and hedge, and the road lay before him like a pale ribbon. He crossed the
meadow, climbed the wall, and dropped. The earth sounded dully under his feet,
and twigs crackled as he moved. There was no other sound. She was not there. He
dared not light a match to see his watch's face by. Perhaps he was early. Well,
he could wait. He waited. He waited and waited and waited. He listened till his
ears were full of the soft rustlings and movements which go to make up the
silence of country night. He strained his eyes to see some movement in the gray
park dotted with black trees. But all was still. It was very dark under the
trees. And through all his listening he thought, thought. Did it do to trust to
impulses--to instincts? Did it do, rather, to disregard them? A gipsy woman had
said to him once, "Your first thoughts are straight--give yourself time to think
twice and you'll think wrong." What he had felt that morning while he waited,
vainly, for her to come had taught him that, fool as he might be for his pains,
the feeling that possessed him was more like the love poets talked of than he
would have believed any feeling of his could be. And, after all, love at first
sight _was_ possible--was it not the theme of half the romances in the world? He
felt that at this, their second meeting, he must know whether he meant to
advance or to retreat. Always when he had trusted his impulse his choice had
been a wise one. But was a choice necessary now? His instincts told him that it
was. This midnight meeting--planned by her and not by him--it was a meeting for
"good-by." No girl would make an assignation at that hour just to tell a man
that she intended to meet him again the next day. So he must know whether he
meant to permit himself to be said good-by to. And he knew that he did not. The
day had been long, but it seemed to him that already the night had been longer
than the day. Could he have mistaken the hour? No, it was certainly twelve--or
thirteen. Then his heart leaped up. If it _had_ been thirteen, that meant one
o'clock. Perhaps it was not one yet. But he felt that he knew it to be at least
three. Yet if it were three there would be the diffused faint illumination of
dawn growing, growing. And there was no light at all but the changeless light of
the stars. Again and again he thought he saw her, thought he heard her. And
again and again only silence and solitude came to meet his thoughts. When at
last she did come he saw her very far off, and heard the rustle of her dress
even before he saw her. He would not go to meet her across the starlit space;
that would be very dangerous. He stood where he was till she came into the
shadow. Then he went toward her and said:

"At last!" She drew a long breath. "Oh, I was so afraid you wouldn't come!" "I
was here at twelve," he said. "So you got the handkerchief. I put thirteen
because I thought if I put one--it was so difficult to write--and, of course, I
couldn't look at it to see if it was readable. I wrote it under the driving-rug.
Oh, suppose you hadn't got it!" "I can't suppose it. What should I have done if
I hadn't?" "Oh," she said, "don't! Please don't. I thought you'd understand it
was serious. I shouldn't have asked you to come in the middle of the night to
talk nonsense as if we were at a dance." "What's serious?" he said. She said,
"Everything," and her voice trembled. He took her arm, and felt that she herself
was trembling. "Come and sit down," he said, comfortably, as one might speak to
a child in trouble. "Come and sit down and tell me all about it." They sat down
on the log, and he pulled the dark cloak she wore more closely round her. "Now,"
he said, "what's happened? Why didn't you come this morning?" "I stayed too long
the first time," she answered, "and met Aunt Loo as I went in. She asked me
where I'd been. I said I'd been out to swim in the lake. That was quite true.
That _was_ why I had gone out. I've often done it. But, of course, my hair
wasn't wet. She didn't say anything. But this morning when I came down she was
sitting in the hall, waiting for me. She asked me if I was going bathing again,
and I said, No, I was going to walk in the park. So she said, 'Charming idea.
I'll come, too.'" "And what did you say?" "I said, 'Do,' of course. But it was
awful. I was so afraid of her seeing you." "Suppose she _had_ chosen to walk
that way." "Yes, of course I thought of that. So _I_ led the way and walked
straight toward you. Then she thought whoever I was going to meet must be the
other way. So she insisted on going the other way. I knew she would." "That was
subtle of you." "No; it's only that she's stupid. It wouldn't have taken any one
else in." "So she was baffled." "Yes, but she has instincts, though she's so
stupid. She knew there was something up. And then when we met you--oh, I _am_ so
glad the dog's all right--when we met you I knew she thought you'd something to
do with my being out so early in the morning, and then you blushed." "If I did,"
he said, "I wasn't the only one." "Oh, I know," she said, "but I don't suppose I
should have if you hadn't. Though unjust suspicions like that are enough to make
anybody blush. Yes, they were unjust because you had nothing to do with my going
out the first time--why, I didn't even know there _was_ a you. And now all the
fat's in the fire, and she's taking me to Ireland or Scotland to-morrow--she
won't say which. And I couldn't bear to go and have you think I'd made an
appointment and not kept it. It's so unbusiness-like to break appointments," she
said. "Does she suppose, then, that we--that I am--that you have--that I
should--?" "I don't know what she supposes. At least I do. But it's too silly.
Now I've explained everything. Good-by. I'm glad you found the handkerchief--and
I'm _awfully_ glad about Charles." "I didn't know you knew his name." "The
stableman said it when the dog ran between his knees and nearly knocked him
down. It's a darling dog--but isn't it strong! Good-by!" She held out her hand.
"Good-by," she said, again. "No," said he, and held the hand. There was a little
pause. "Say good-by," she said. "Indeed I must go." "Why?" he asked, releasing
the hand. "I've said everything there was to say--I mean, what I came to say."
"There's a very great deal that you haven't told me. I don't understand. Who
does your aunt think I am?" "I would rather not tell you; you'd only laugh."
"But please tell me. I shouldn't." A troubled silence answered him. "Look here,"
he said, "I know there's a lot you haven't told me. Do tell me, and let me help
you, if I can. You're worried and unhappy. I can hear it in your voice. Tell me.
Things look different when you've put them into words. First of all, tell me who
your aunt thought I was." She sat down again with the air of definite decision.
"Very well," she said, "if you will have it, she thought you were the piano-
tuner. Why don't you laugh?" "I'm not amused yet," he said. "What piano-tuner?
And why should he--why should you--"

"The piano-tuner is a fence," she said, "and she thinks you're it." "I don't
understand a word you're saying." "I don't care," she said, desperately. "I'll
tell you the whole silly story and you can laugh, if you like. I shan't be
offended. Last autumn father brought a man to lunch, quite a nice man--sensible,
middle-aged, very well off--and next day he told me the man had proposed for me,
and I'd better take him. He'd accepted for me." "Good heavens!" said Edward, "I
thought it was only in the _Family Herald_ that such fathers existed." "Laugh as
much as you like," said she; "it's true, for all that. You see, I'd refused
several before that. It's rather important for me to marry well--my father's not
rich, and--"

"I see. Well?" "Well, I wasn't going to. And when it came to this luncheon man I
told you about there was a scene, and my father said was there any one else, and
I said no; but he went on so frightfully and wouldn't believe me. So at last I
told him." "Told him what?" "That there was some one." "Yes?" His voice was only
more gentle for the sudden sharp stab of disappointment which told him what hope
it was that he had nursed. "And then, of course, I wouldn't say who it was. And
he sent for my aunts. Aunt Enid's worse than Aunt Loo. And they bothered and
bothered. And at last I said it was the piano-tuner. I don't know how I could
have. Father turned him off, of course, poor wretch, and they brought me down
here to come to my senses. Aunt Loo never saw the miserable piano-tuner, and she
thinks you're him. So now you know. And that's why they're taking me away from
here. They think the piano-tuner is pursuing me. I believe Aunt Loo thinks you
trained the dog to bark at horses so as to get a chance to speak to me." "Do you
care much for your father?" he asked, "or for any of them?" "It's a horrid thing
to say," she answered, "but I don't. The only one I care for's Aunt Alice--she's
an invalid and a darling. Father thinks about nothing but bridge and races, and
Aunt Loo's all golf and horses, and Aunt Enid's a social reformer. I hate them
all. And I've never been anywhere or seen anything. I'm not allowed to write to
any one. And they don't have any one here at all, and I'm not to see a single
soul till I've come to my senses, as they call it. And that's why I was so glad
to talk to you yesterday." "I see," he said, very kindly. "Now what can I do for
you? Where's the other man? Can't I post a letter to him or something? Why
doesn't he come and rescue you?" "What other man?" she asked. "The man you're
fond of. The man whose name you wouldn't tell them." "Oh," she said, lightly,
and just as though it didn't matter. "There isn't any other man." "There isn't?"
he echoed, joyously. "No, of course not. I just made him up--and then I called
him the piano-tuner." "Then," he said, "forgive me for asking, but I must be
quite sure--you don't care for any man at all?" "Of course I don't," she
answered, resentfully, "I shouldn't go about caring about any one who didn't
care for me--and if any one cared for me and I cared for him, of course we
should run away with each other at once." "I see," said Mr. Basingstoke, slowly
and distinctly. "Then if there isn't any one else I suggest that you run away
with me." It was fully half a minute before she spoke. Then she said: "I don't
blame you. I deserve it for asking you to meet me and coming out like this. But
I thought you were different." "Deserve what?" "To be insulted and humiliated.
To be made a jest of." "It seems to me that my offer is no more insulting or
humiliating than any of your other offers. I like you very much. I think you
like me. And I believe we should suit each other very well. Don't be angry. I'm
perfectly serious. Don't speak for a minute. Listen. I've just come into some
money, and I'm going about the country, seeing places and people. I'm just a
tramp, as I told you. Come and be a tramp, too. We'll go anywhere you like.
We'll take the map and you shall put your finger on any place you think you'd
like to see, and we'll go straight off to it, by rail or motor, or in a cart, or
a caravan, if you'd like it. Caravans must be charming. To go wherever you like,
stop when you like--go on when you like. Come with me. I don't believe you'd
ever regret it. And I know I never should." "I believe you're serious," she
said, half incredulously. "Of course I am. It's a way out of all your troubles."
"I couldn't," she said, earnestly, "marry any one I wasn't very fond of. And one
can't be fond of a person one's only seen twice." "Can't you?" he said, a little
sadly. "No," she answered. "I think it's very fine of you to offer me this--just
to get me out of a bother. And I'm sorry I thought you were being horrid. I'll
tell you something. I've always thought that even if I cared very much for some
one I should be almost afraid to marry him unless I knew him very, very well.
Girls do make such frightful mistakes. You ought to see a man every day for a
year, and then, perhaps, you'd know if you could really bear to live with him
all your life." Instead of answering her directly, he said: "You would love the
life in the caravan. Think of the camp--making a fire of sticks and cooking your
supper under the stars, and the great moonlit nights, and sleeping in pine woods
and waking in the dawn and curling yourself up in your blanket and going to
sleep again till I shouted out that the fire was alight and breakfast nearly
ready." "I wish I could come with you without having to be married." "Come,
then," he said. "Come on any terms. I'll take you as a sister if I'm not to take
you as a wife." "Do you mean it? Really?" she said. "Oh, why shouldn't I? I
believe you would take me--and I should be perfectly free then. I've got a
little money of my own that my godmother left me. I was twenty-one the other
day. I don't get it, of course. My father says it costs that to keep me. But if
I were to run away he would have to give it to me, wouldn't he? And then I could
pay you back what you spent on me. Oh, I wish I could. Will you really take me?"
But he had had time to think. "No," he said, "on reflection, I don't think I
will." But she did not hear him, for as he spoke she spoke, too. "Hush!" she
said. "Look -- look there." Across the park, near the house, lights were moving.
"They're looking for me," she gasped. "They've found out that I'm away. Oh, what
shall I do? Aunt Loo will never be decent to me again. What _shall_ I do?" "Come
with me," he said, strongly. "I'll take care of you. Come." He took her hand. "I
swear by God," he said, "that everything shall be as you choose. Only come now--
come away from these people. You're twenty-one. You're your own mistress. Let me
help you to get free from all this stuffy, stupid tyranny." "You won't make me
marry you?" she asked. "I can't make you do anything," he said. "But if you're
coming, it must be now." "Come, then," she said, making for the ladder. VI

CROW'S NEST

HE had brought a ball of string in his pocket, this time, and he was glad to
know he could lower the ladder by it--for the thud of a falling ladder would
sound far in the night stillness. From the top of the wall he held the ladder
while she mounted. "Sit here a moment," he said, "while I get rid of the
ladder." He lowered it gently, drew the string up, leaped to the ground outside
the wall, and held up his hands to her. "Jump," he whispered. "I'll catch you."
But even as he spoke she had turned and was hanging by her hands. He let her do
it her own way. She dropped expertly, landing with a little rebound. He was glad
he had not tried to catch her. It would have been a poor beginning to their
comradeship if he had, at the very outset, shown doubts of her competence to do
anything she set out to do. They stood under the wall very near together. "What
are you going to do?" she said. "I must get a car and take you away. Are you
afraid to be left alone for a couple of hours?" "I--I don't think so," she said.
"But where? Did you notice the lights as you got over the wall?" "Yes; they were
still near the house." The two were walking side by side along the road now. "If
you were any ordinary girl I should be afraid to leave you to think things over
--for fear you should think you'd been rash or silly or something--and worry
yourself about all sorts of nonsense, and perhaps end in bolting back to your
hutch before I could come back to you. But since it's you--let's cut across the
downs here--we'll keep close to the edge of the wood." Their feet now trod the
soft grass. "How sensible of you to wear a dark cloak," he said. "Yes," she
said, "a really romantic young lady in distress would have come in white muslin
and blue ribbons, wouldn't she?" He glowed to the courage that let her jest at
such a moment. "Where am I to wait?" she asked. "There's an old farm-house not
far away," he said. "If you don't mind waiting there. Could you?" "Who lives
there?" "Nobody. I happen to have the key. I was looking at it yesterday. It's
not furnished, but I noticed some straw and packing-cases. I could rig you up
some sort of lounge, but don't do it if you're afraid. If you're afraid to be
left to yourself we'll walk together to Eastbourne. But if we do we're much more
likely to be caught." "I'm not in the least afraid. Why should I be?" she said,
and they toiled up the hill among the furze bushes in the still starlight. "What
they'll do," she said, presently, "when they're sure I'm not in the park, is to
go down to your inn and see if you're there." "Yes," he said, "I'm counting on
that. That's why I said two or three hours. You see, I must be there when they
do come, and the minute they're gone I'll go for the motor. Look here--I've got
some chocolate that I got for a kiddy to-day; luckily, I forgot to give it to
him; and here are some matches, only don't strike them if you can help it. Now,
stick to it." They went on in silence; half-way up the hill he took her arm to
help her. Then, over the crest of the hill, in a hollow of the downs there was
the dark-spread blot of house and farm buildings. They went down the road.
Nothing stirred--only as they neared the farm-yard a horse in the stable rattled
his halter against the manger and they heard his hoofs moving on the cobbled
floor of his stall. They stood listening. No, all was still. "Give me your
hand," he said, and led her round to the side of the house. The key grated a
little as he turned it in the lock. He threw back the door. "This is the
kitchen," he said. "Stand just inside and I'll make a nest for you. I know
exactly where to lay my hands on the straw." There was rustling in the darkness
and a sound of boards grating on bricks. She stood at the door and waited.
"Ready," he said. "They'll find me," she said. "We shall never get away." "Trust
me for that," said he. "I must have been mad to come," he heard through the
darkness. "We're all mad once in our lives," he said, cheerfully. "Now roll
yourself in your cloak. Give me your hands--so." He led her to the straw nest he
had made, and lowered her to it. "Do you wish you hadn't come?" he asked. "I
don't know," she said. "I hope to Heaven I haven't misjudged you," he said, with
the first trace of anxiety she had yet heard in his voice. "If you should be the
kind of girl who's afraid of the dark--"

The straw rustled as she curled herself more comfortably in her nest. "I'm not
afraid," she said. "Look here," said he, "here's my match-box, but don't strike
a light among the straw. The door into the house is locked and the key's on this
side of the door. Can you come to the back door and lock it after me, and then
find your way back to your nest?" "Yes," she said, and felt her way past the big
copper to the door. "Sure you're not frightened?" "Quite," said she. "Then I'll
go," said he, and went. She locked the door and crept back to the straw. He
waited till its crackling told him that she had found her way back to her couch.
Then he started for Jevington. And as he went he told himself that she was
right. She had been mad to come, and he had been mad to let her come. But there
was no going back now. There was no looking back, even. From the brow of the
hill the road was down-hill all the way, and he ran, his rubber shoes patting
almost noiselessly in the dust. At his inn the bolt yielded to his knife-point's
pressure, the well-oiled lock let him in without a murmur, the stairs hardly
creaked more than stairs can creak in their dark solitudes when we lie awake and
listen to them and wonder. . . . The night was as silent as a thought, and when
at last the silence was shattered by the clatter of hoofs and the jangle of
harness, Mr. Basingstoke's head turned a little on his pillow, not restlessly.
He heard the clanging bell echo in the flagged passage; heard through the
plaster walls the heavy awakening of his host, the scrape of a match, the hasty,
blundering toilet; heard the big bar dropped from the front door; voices--the
groom's voice, the host's voice, the aunt's voice. Then heavy steps on the
stairs and a knock at his door. "Very sorry to disturb you, sir," came the
muffled tones through the door, almost cringingly apologetic, "but could you get
up, sir, just for a minute? Miss Davenant from the Hall wants a word with you--
about your dawg, sir, as I understand. If you could oblige, sir--very
inconvenient, I know, sir, but the Hall is very highly thought of in the
village, sir." "What on earth--?" said Mr. Basingstoke, very loudly, and got out
of bed. "I'll dress and come down," he said. He did dress, to the accompaniment
of voices below--replaced, that is, the collar, tie, and boots he had taken off
--and then he began to pack, his mind busy with the phrases in which he would
explain that a house in which these nocturnal disturbances occurred was not fit
for the sojourning of. . . . No, hang it all, that would not be fair to the
landlord--he must find some other tale. When he had kept the lady waiting as
long as he thought a man might have kept her who had really a toilet to make, he
went slowly down. Voices sounded in the parlor, and a slab of light from its
door lay across the sanded passage. He went in; the landlord went out, closing
the door almost too discreetly. Mr. Basingstoke and the aunt looked at each
other. She was very upright and wore brown gloves and a brown, boat-shaped hat
with an aggressive quill. "You _are_ here, then?" she said. "Where else, madam?"
said Mr. Basingstoke. "I should like you," said the aunt, deliberately, "to be
somewhere else within the next hour. I will make it worth your while." "Thank
you," Edward murmured. "I think I ought to tell you," said she, "that I saw
through that business of the dog. He was well trained, I admit. But I can't have
my niece annoyed in this way." "The lady must certainly not be annoyed," said
Edward, with feeling. "I came to-night to see if you were here. . . ." "It is an
unusual hour for a call," said Edward, "but I am proportionally honored." "--to
see if you were here, and, if you were, to tell you that my niece is not."
Edward cast a puzzled eye around the crowded parlor. "No," he said. "No." "I
mean," Miss Davenant went on, "that my niece has left this neighborhood and will
not return while you are here; so you are wasting your time and trouble." "_I_
see," said Edward, helpfully. "You will gain nothing by this attitude," said
Miss Davenant. "If you will consent to leave Jevington to-night I will give you
twenty pounds." "Twenty pounds!" he repeated, softly. "Yes, twenty pounds, on
condition that you promise not to molest this defenseless girl." "Put up your
money, madam," said Edward Basingstoke, with a noble gesture copied from the
best theatrical models, "and dry your eyes. Never shall it be said that Edward
Basingstoke was deaf to the voice of a lady in distress. Lay your commands on
me, and be assured that, for me, to hear is to obey." "You are very impertinent,
young man," Miss Davenant told him, "and you won't do yourself any good by
talking like a book. Clear out of this to-night, and I'll give you twenty
pounds. Stay, and take the consequences." "Meaning--?" "Well, stay if you like.
You won't see her. She won't return to Jevington till you're gone. So I tell you
you'd better accept my offer and go." "Accept your offer and go," repeated
Edward. "Twenty pounds," said the lady, persuasively. "Tempt me not!" said
Edward. "To a man in my position. . . ." "Exactly." "Nay," said Edward, "there
are chords even in a piano-tuner's breast--chords which, too roughly touched,
will turn and rend the smiter." "Good gracious!" said Miss Davenant, "I believe
the man's insane." "Withdraw that harsh expression," he pleaded. And then,
without warning, the situation ceased to amuse him. Here he was, swimming in the
deep, smooth waters of diplomacy, and suddenly diplomacy seemed a sticky medium.
He would have liked Miss Davenant to be a man--a man in green-silk Georgian coat
and buckled shoes; himself also gloriously Georgian, in murray-colored cut
velvet, with Mechlin at wrists and throat. Then they could have betaken
themselves to the bowling-green and fought it out with ringing rapiers, by the
light of the lantern held in the landlord's trembling fingers. Or at dawn, in
the meadow the red wall bounded, there could have been measured pacings--a
dropped handkerchief, two white puffs drifting away on the chill, sweet air, and
Edward Basingstoke could have handed his smoking pistol to his second and
mounted his horse--Black Belial--and so away to his lady, leaving his adversary
wounded slightly ("winged," of course, was the word). Thus honor would have been
satisfied, and Edward well in the lime-light. But in this little box of an
overfurnished room, by the light of an ill-trimmed paraffin-lamp, to rag an
anxious aunt. . . . He withdrew himself slowly from diplomacy--tried to find an
inch or two of dry truth to stand on. "Well, why don't you say something?" asked
the anxious aunt. "I will," said Mr. Basingstoke. "Madam, I have to ask your
pardon for an unpardonable liberty. I have deceived you. I am not what you
think. I am not a piano-tuner, but an engineer." "But you said you were. . . ."
"Pardon me. I said there were chords in the breasts of piano-tuners." "But if
you aren't, how did you know there was one?" This _riposte_ he had not
anticipated. Frankness had its drawbacks--so small a measure of it as he had
allowed himself. He leaped headlong into diplomacy again. "Look back on what you
have said, not only to me, but to others," he said, solemnly, and saw that the
chance shot had gone home. "Now," he said, "don't let us prolong an interview
which cannot but be painful to us both. I am not the piano-tuner for whom you
take me. You are a complete stranger to me. The only link that binds us is the
fact that your horse ran over my dog and that you bore the apparently lifeless
body home for me. Yet if you wish me to leave the neighborhood, I will leave it.
In fact, I was going in any case," he added, struggling against diplomacy. Miss
Davenant looked at him. "You're speaking the truth," she said; "you're not the
piano-tuner. But you got as red as fire yesterday. So did my niece. What was
that for?" "I cannot explain my complicated color-scheme," said Edward, "without
diagrams and a magic-lantern. And as for your niece, I can lay my hand on my
heart and say that the light of declining day never illumined that face for me
till the moment when it also illumined yours." "Are you deceiving me?" Miss
Davenant asked, weakly, and Edward answered:

"Yes, I am; but not in the way you think. We all have our secrets, but mine are
not the secrets of the piano-tuner." Some one sneezed in the passage outside.
"Our host has been eavesdropping," said Edward, softly. "Well, if he doesn't
make more of this conversation than I do, he won't make much," said Miss
Davenant. "I don't trust you." "That would make it all the easier for me to
deceive you," said Edward, "if I sought to deceive." "You've got too much
language for me," said Miss Davenant. "If you're not the man, I apologize."
"Don't mention it," said Edward. "If you are, I don't wonder so much at what
happened in London. Good night. Sorry to have disturbed you." "Don't you think,"
said Edward, "that you might as well tell me why you _did_ disturb me?" "I
thought you were the piano-tuner," she said; "you knew that perfectly well. And
I don't want piano-tuners hanging round Jevington. I'm sorry I offered the
money. I ought to have seen." "Not at all," said Mr. Basingstoke, "and, since my
presence here annoys you, know that by this time to-morrow I shall be far away."
"There's one thing more," said Miss Davenant. But Mr. Basingstoke was never to
know what that one thing was, for at the instant a wild shriek rang through the
quiet night, there was a scuffle outside, hoarse voices in anger and pain, the
door burst open, and Miss Davenant's groom staggered in. "Beg pardon, ma'am"--he
still remembered his station, and it was thus he affirmed it--"beg pardon,
ma'am, but this 'ere dawg--"

It was too true. Charles, perhaps conscious of his master's presence in the
parlor, had slipped his collar, scratched a hole under the stable door, and,
finding the groom and the landlord in the passage, barring his entrance, had
bitten the groom's trousers leg. It hung, gaping, from knee to ankle--with
Charles still attached. Charles's master choked the dog off, but confidential
conversation was at an end, even when a sovereign had slipped from his hand to
the groom's. "Seems the young lady's missing," said the host, when the dog-cart
had rattled up the street. "Indeed!" said Edward. "Well, I think I also shall
retreat. Will it inconvenience you if I leave my traps to be sent on? I shall
walk into Seaford and catch the early train." "It wasn't my fault the lady come,
sir," said the landlord, sulky but deferential. "I know it," said the guest,
"and I am not leaving because of her coming. I should have left in any case. But
it is a fine night, I have a fancy for a walk, and it does not seem worth while
to go to bed again. If you will kindly take this, pay your bill out of it, and
divide the remainder between Robert and Gladys, I shall be very much obliged.
I've been very comfortable here and I shall certainly come again." He pressed a
five-pound note into the landlord's hand, and before that bewildered one could
think of anything more urgent than the commonplaces which begin, "I'm sure,
sir," or, "I shouldn't like to think," he and Charles had turned their backs on
the Five Bells, and the landlord was staring after them. The round, white back
of Charles showed for quite a long time through the darkness. Slowly he drew the
bolts, put out the lights, and went back to bed. "It's a rum go," he told his
wife, after he had told her all he had heard and overheard, "a most peculiar rum
go. But he's a gentleman, he is, whichever way you look at it. Miss up at the
Hall might do a jolly sight worse, if you ask me. Shouldn't wonder, come to
think of it, if she ain't waiting for him around the corner, as it is." "He's
the kind of gentleman a girl _would_ wait around the corner for," said the
landlady. "It's his eyes, partly, I think. And he's got such a kind look. But if
she is--waiting round the corner, I mean, like what you said--he _have_ got a
face to go on like what he did to Miss Davenant." "Yes," said the landlord,
blowing out the candle, "he _have_ got a face, whichever way you look at it." It
was bright daylight when a motor--one of the strong, fierce kind, no wretched
taxicab, but a private motor of obvious speed and spirit--blundered over the
shoulder of the downs down the rutty road to Crow's Nest Farm. Mr. Basingstoke,
happy to his finger-tips as well as to the inmost recesses of the mind in his
consciousness of results achieved and difficulties overcome, slipped from the
throbbing motor and went quickly around to the back door, Charles with him,
straining at the lead. The path that led to the door had its bricks outlined
with green grass, a house-leek spread its rosettes on the sloping lichened tiles
of the roof, and in the corner of the window the toad-flax flaunted its little
helmets of orange and sulphur-color. He tapped gently on the door. Nothing from
within answered him--no voice, no movement, no creak of board, no rustle of
straw, no click of little heels on the floor of stone. She might be asleep--must
be. He knocked again, and still silence answered him. Then a wave of
possibilities and impossibilities rose suddenly and swept against Mr.
Basingstoke's heart. So sudden was it, and so strong was it, that for a moment
he felt the tremor of a physical nausea. He put his hand to the latch, meaning
to try with his shoulder the forcing of the lock. But the door was not locked.
The latch clicked, yielding to his hand, and the door opened into the kitchen,
with its wide old chimneyplace, big mantel-shelf, its oven and pump, its
brewing-copper and its washing-copper, its litter of packing-cases and straw,
and the little nest he had made for her between the copper and the big barrel.
The soft, diffused daylight showed him every corner, and Charles sniffing, as it
seemed, every corner at once. He crossed over and tried the door that led to the
house. But he knew, before his hand found it unyielding, that it had not been
unlocked since last he saw it. He knew, quite surely, that the lady was not
there. There was no sign or trace of her, save the rounded nest where she must
have snuggled for at least a part of the night that he had spent in such
strenuous diplomacy, such ardent organization, for her sake. No other trace of
her . . . yes, on the flap-table by the window his match-box, set as weight to
keep in its place a handkerchief. It was own sister to the little one his pocket
still held--and, as he took it up, exhaled the same faint, delicate fragrance.
He read it, Charles snuffling and burrowing in the straw at his feet. On it a
few words were written, some illegible, but these few plain:

I will write to General Post-Office, London. There are no words for the thoughts
of the baffled adventurer as he locked the door and walked around the farm to
the waiting motor. His only word on the way was to Charles, and it calmed, for
an instant, even that restless spirit. "London," he said to his chauffeur. "My
friend isn't coming," and he and Charles tumbled into the car together. A line
of faces drawn up against a long fence watched his departure with mild
curiosity. Twenty or thirty calves and their rustic attendant saw him go. The
chauffeur looked again at the house's blank windows and echoed the landlord's
words. "Rum go!" he said to himself. "Most extraordinary rum go." VII

TUNBRIDGE WELLS

AN earnest and prolonged struggle with Charles now occupied Mr. Basingstoke.
Charles was determined to stand on the seat with his paws on the side of the
car, to look out and to be in readiness to leap out should any passing object
offer a more than trivial appeal. His master was determined that Charles should
lie on the mat in the bottom of the car, and, what is more, that he should lie
there quietly. The discussion became animated and ended in blows. It was just at
the crisis of the affair, when Edward had lightly smitten the hard, bullet head
and Charles was protesting with screams as piercing as those of a locomotive in
distress, that the car wheeled into the highroad and narrowly missed a dog-cart
coming up from Seaford. As they passed, Edward's hand went to his hat, for the
driver of the dog-cart was Miss Davenant. Charles, partially released, leaped
toward the lady, only to hang by his chain over the edge of the car. By the time
he had been hauled in again and cuffed into comparative quiescence Miss Davenant
was left far behind, a little, gesticulating figure against the horizon. Her
gestures seemed to Edward to be gestures of recall. But he disregarded them. It
was not till later that he regretted this. A final struggle with Charles ended
in victory, not because Edward had enforced his will on that strong and
strenuous nature, but because Charles was now exhausted and personally inclined
to surrender. He lay at last on the floor of the car, his jaws open in a wide,
white-toothed smile, and his pink tongue palpitating to his panting breaths.
Edward sat very upright, his hands between his knees, holding the shortened
chain of Charles. Mile after mile of the smooth down country slipped past, the
car had whirled down the narrow, tree-bordered road into Alfreston, past the old
church and the thirteenth-century, half-timbered Clergy House, where three
little girls in green pinafores were seeking to coerce a reluctant goat along to
Polegate and across the railway lines, and still Mr. Basingstoke never moved.
His mind alone was alive, and of his body he was no longer conscious. He thought
and thought and thought. Why had she left the farm? Had she been frightened? Had
she been captured? Where had she gone? And why? And behind all these questions
was a background of something too vague and yet too complicated to be called
regret--or something which, translated into words, might have gone something
like this:

"Adventures to the adventurous. And three days ago the world was before me. I
had set out for adventures and I found nothing more agitating than the pleasant
pleasing of one little child. Then suddenly the adventure happened. And now no
more charming wanderings, no more aimless saunterings in this pleasant, green
world, but rush and worry and hurry and dust, uncertainty, anxiety, . . . the
whole pretty dream of the adventurer shattered by the reality of the adventure."
Suddenly, and without meaning to do it, he had mortgaged his future to a
stranger. The stranger had fled and he was--well, not pursuing, but going to the
place she had named as that from which he might gain a clue and take up the
pursuit. It was not exactly regret, but Mr. Basingstoke found himself almost
wishing that time could move backward and set him in the meadow where the red
wall was, and give him once more the chance to fly or not to fly his aeroplane.
Perhaps if he had the choice he would not fly it. But all this was among the
shadows at the back of his mind. In the foreground was the small, insistent
cycle of questions: Why had she left the farm? Had she been frightened? Had she
been captured? Where had she gone? When? How? Why? It was not till the car was
slipping through Crowborough, that paradise of villa-dwellers who have "done
well in business," that the thought came to him, had she, after all, gone back
to her aunt? Had she thought better of it, and just gone humbly back with
confession and submission in both hands? It was then that he remembered that
Miss Davenant had seemed to signal . . . perhaps she had some errand to him . .
. perhaps submission had been given as the price of a farewell message, aunt-
borne, to meet him at the farm? Mr. Basingstoke was not subject to attacks of
indecision, but now for a moment he wavered. Then imagination showed him himself
on the door-step of the Hall asking for Miss Davenant, and Miss Davenant
receiving or not receiving him--in either case he himself cutting a figure which
he could not for a moment admire. Common sense reinforced imagination. The
handkerchief said General Post-Office. It could only have said that if the
handkerchief's owner meant him to go to the General Post-Office. If the
handkerchief's owner had meant him to go back to the Hall, the handkerchief
could just as easily have said the Hall. He went back to his questionings, and
the car drew near Tunbridge Wells. Charles, exhausted by the morning's combat,
had slept heavily, but now he roused himself to take the rôle of Arbiter of
Destinies. He roused himself, sat up, snuffled and blew, and then, with wide
smile and lolling tongue, proclaimed himself to be that pitiable and suffering
creature, a bull-terrier dying of thirst. In vain Edward sought to calm him; he
insisted that he was, and that he had a right to be, thirsty. His insistence
affected his master. Edward became aware that he, also, was thirsty; more, was
hungry. His watch showed him that the chauffeur had every right to consider
himself an ill-used man. A bright-faced hotel whose windows were underlined with
marguerites and pink geraniums beckoned attractively. "After all, one must
live," said Edward, and breathed an order. The car drew up in front of the White
Horse. Another car was there--unattended--a very nice car. Edward wished it had
been his. It had all those charms which his own hired one lacked, and his
experienced eye dwelt fondly on those charms. "Get yourself something to eat,"
he said to the chauffeur. Charles, straining toward the horse-trough, seemed
anxious to prove that his thirst had not been simulated. Edward indulged him.
Arrived at the wet granite, however, Charles lapped a tongueful or two, as it
were out of politeness and merely to oblige, and then looked up at his master
expressively. "You have sadly misunderstood me," he seemed to say. "What I
wanted was breakfast," adding, reproachfully, "You will remember that there has
been none to-day." He dragged his master to the hotel door, where they passed in
under hanging-baskets of pink and white flowers, and in a coffee-room adorned
with trophies of the chase Edward ordered luncheon for himself and biscuits for
Charles. Now mark the vagaries of Destiny: Charles, impatient for the biscuits,
dragged his chain about the coffee-room, empty at this hour of all but himself
and his master; he upset the tongs and the shovel and brought them clattering to
the fender. Edward replaced them in their stands. Then Charles put his feet in
an antimacassar and dragged it to the floor. After this he went to the writing-
table under the wire blind in the middle window and snuffled curiously in the
waste-paper basket, upsetting it almost without an effort, and a litter of
letters and envelopes and torn circulars was discharged. Edward, hastening to
repair these ravages, scooped the torn fragments in his hands--and on the very
top, fronting him, was an envelope bearing his own name--Basingstoke.

" --Basingstoke," the envelope said plainly, adding as an incomplete
afterthought, "General Post-O"--and there ending. The handwriting was, like
Hypatia's, graceful and self-conscious. That is to say, it was legible, clear,
and the letters were shaped by design and not by accident. He never doubted for
an instant whose hand it was that had written those words. He went through the
waste-paper basket's other contents for more of that handwriting. There was not
a scrap. The waiter, coming in with accessories to the still-withheld luncheon,
stared at him. "Something thrown away by mistake," he said, and pursued the
search. No--nothing. But that she had been here was plain; that she still might
be here was possible. She must have come by train or by motor--what motor? Train
from what station? He went out into the hall to question the highly coiffured
young lady whom he had noticed as he came in, the lady who sits in the glass
cage where the keys are kept, and enters your name in the book when you engage
your room. The cage was empty, the hall was empty. On the hall-table's dark
mahogany lay a shining salver, and on the salver lay a few letters. He picked
them up. The one on the top was addressed fully--to

MR. BASINGSTOKE,            General Post-Office,
London. The one below was addressed to--

MISS DAVENANT,           The Hall,                Jevington,
Sussex. Edward glanced round; he was still alone. He put the letters in his
pocket and went back to the coffee-room. Charles's attentions had been directed,
in his absence, to the waiter, who had thus been detained from his duties. "Any
one else lunching here to-day?" he asked, restraining Charles. "Mostly over by
now, sir," said the waiter. "That dog--dangerous, ain't he, sir?" "Not a bit,"
said Edward; "he only took a fancy to you." "Wouldn't let me pass--like," said
the waiter. "Only his play," said Edward. "He merely wants his dinner. You've
been rather a long time bringing his biscuits. I expect he thought you'd got
them in your pocket." "Sorry, sir," the waiter said, and explained that, being
single-handed at that hour, he had had to attend to the other party's lunch, "in
the garden, sir," he added, "though why the garden when everything's nice and
ready in here--to say nothing of earwigs in your glass, and beetles, and
everything to be carried half a mile--" He ceased abruptly. "I should like to
see the garden," said Edward, "while I'm waiting." "Lunch ready directly, sir,"
said the waiter. "Hardly worth while to have it out there now, sir--"

"Which way?" Edward asked, and was told. He went through the hall, under a vine-
covered trellis, and the garden blazed before him--a really charming garden, all
green and red and yellow; beyond the lawn was an arbor with a light network of
hops above it. In that arbor was a white-spread table. There was also movement;
people were seated at the table. Edward stood in the sunshine between two tall
vases overflowing with nasturtiums and lobelias and opened his letter. "Good-
by," it said, "and thank you a thousand times. I shall never forget your
kindness. But when I had time to think I saw that it wasn't fair to you. But you
showed me the way out of the trap. And, now I am free, I can go on by myself. I
don't want to drag you into any bother there may be. It would be a poor return
for your kindness." Initials followed--"K. D."

Mr. Basingstoke dragged at the chain of Charles, who was already gardening
industrially in a bed of begonias, and walked straight to the arbor. It could
not, of course, be she whose skirt he saw through the dappled screen of leaf and
shadow. The waiter would never have called her a "party"--still, one might as
well make sure before one began to make inquiries of the hotel people. So he
walked around to the arbor's entrance and looked in. A man and woman were seated
with a little table between them; coffee, peaches, and red wine announced the
meal's completion. The man was a stranger. The woman was Herself. She raised her
eyes as he darkened the doorway and they stared at each other for an instant in
a stricken silence. It was a terrible moment for Edward. Recognition might be
the falsest of false steps. On the other hand. . . . The question was, of
course, one that must be left to her to decide. The man with her was too young
to be her father; he might, of course, be an uncle or a brother. Untimely
recognition on Edward's part might mean the end of all things. It was only a
moment, though an incredibly long one. Then she smiled. "Oh," she said, "here
you are!" And before Edward had time to wonder what his next move was, or was
expected to be, she had turned to her companion and said, "This is my brother;
he will be able to thank you better than I can for your kindness." The stranger,
a strongly built man with blue eyes and a red neck, looked from one to the
other. It may have been Mr. Basingstoke's fancy, but to him it seemed that the
stranger's glance was seeking that elusive thing, a family likeness. His look
said that he did not find it. His voice said,

"Not at all. Delighted to have been of the slightest service." "What's
happened?" asked Edward, feeling his way. "Why," she hastened to explain, "when
you didn't turn up I started to walk, and I didn't put on sensible shoes." A
foot shod in a worn satin slipper crept out to point the confession and vanished
at once. "And I sat down on a heap of stones to wait for you. And then this
gentleman came by and offered me a lift. And I couldn't think what had become of
you--and you know how important it was to get to London--so, of course, I was
most grateful. And then something went wrong with the motor, so we stopped here
for lunch--and I can't think how you found me--but I'm so glad you did. And
all's well that ends well." Edward felt that he was scowling, and all his
efforts could not smooth out the scowl. She was patting Charles and looking at
Charles's master. "We are very much indebted to you, sir," said Edward, coldly.
"Nothing, I assure you," said the gentleman with the red neck. "Only too happy
to be of service to Miss--er--"

"Basingstoke," said Edward, and saw in her eyes that he had not done the right
thing. "I suppose you forgot to write to Aunt Emily and Uncle James," he said,
seeking to retrieve the last move. "Indeed I didn't," she said, with plain
relief. "I wrote directly I got here, and gave them to the waiter to post."
Another silence longer than the first was broken by the waiter, who came to
announce that the gentleman's lunch was ready in the coffee-room. The other
gentleman--red-necked--asked for his bill. While the waiter was gone for it,
Edward put a sovereign on the table. "For my sister's share," he said. The red-
necked gentleman protested. "You know," she said, in a low voice, "I said I
should pay my share." The red-necked gentleman rose. "I will tell them," he
said, "to make out your bill separately. And now, if I cannot be of any further
service to you, I think I'll be getting on. Good day to you." "Good day," said
Edward, "and thank you for your kindness to my sister." "Good-by," said she,
"and thank you a thousand times." She held out her hand. He bowed over it and
went away through the sunlit garden, resentment obvious in every line of his
back. Neither Edward nor the girl spoke. There was no sound in the arbor save
the convulsive gulpings of Charles absorbing the sponge fingers which she
absently offered him from among the scattered dessert. It was she who broke the
silence. "I did write," she said. "Yes. I got the letter." He laid it and Miss
Davenant's on the table. "What does it mean?" "What it says--"

"You won't let _me_ help you--but you let that man, right enough." "What was I
to do? The important thing was to get away." "What tale did you tell that man?"
"The truth." He scowled with bitter skepticism. "I did. Except that you're not
my brother. I told him I'd missed you and that I'd got to get to London to-day
as early as I could. And he was awfully nice and kind." "I can well believe it."
"_Nice_ and kind," she repeated, with emphasis. "And you were most horrid to
him. And I do think you're unkind--"

"I don't mean to be," said Edward, "and it's not my province to be horrid and
unkind to you, any more than it is to be nice and kind. In this letter you say
good-by. Am I to understand that you mean good-by--that I am to leave you, here
--now?" She did not answer, and there was that in her silence which laid a
healing touch on his hurt vanity. "If my manner doesn't please you," he went on,
"do remember that you have brought a fairly solid Spanish castle about my ears
and that I am still a little bewildered and bruised." "I'm sorry," she said,
"but I didn't think." "You see," he went on, "I thought I'd found a girl who
wasn't just like other girls. . . ." "I'm afraid I am," she said--"just." "I
thought that you were brave and truthful and strong--and that you trusted me;
and then I find you haven't the courage to stick to the way we planned; you
haven't even the courage to wait for me and tell me you've changed your mind.
You bolt off like a frightened rabbit and make friends with the first bounder
who comes along. I was a fool to think I could help you. You don't need my help.
Anybody else can help you just as well. Good-by--"

"Good-by," she said, not looking up. And he perceived that she was weeping. Also
that he was no longer angry. "Don't!" he said, "oh, don't! Do forgive me. I
don't know what I've said. But I didn't mean it, whatever it was, if it's hurt
you. I'll do just what you say. Shall I call that chap back?" She shook her head
and hid her face in her hands. "Forgive me," he said again. "Oh, don't cry! I'm
not worth it. Nothing's worth it. Charles, you brute, lie down." For Charles, in
eager sympathy with beauty in distress, was leaping up in vain efforts to find
and kiss the hidden face. "Don't scold him," she said. "I like him." And Edward
could have worshiped her for the words. "And, oh," she said, after a minute,
"don't scold me, either! I'm so frightfully tired and everything's been so
hateful. I thought you'd understand, and that if you cared to find me, you
would." "How could I? You sent no address." "I did. On the handkerchief. . . .
But I suppose you couldn't read it." "And still," he said, but quite gently now,
"I don't understand--"

"Don't you? Don't you see, I thought when you'd had time to think it over you'd
be sorry and wish yourself well out of it, and yet feel obliged to go on. And I
thought how horrid for you. And how much easier for you if you just thought I'd
changed my mind. And then I set out to walk to Seaford and take the train. And
then my shoes gave out, and I was so awfully afraid of aunt coming along that
way, so that when Mr. Schultz came along it seemed a perfect godsend." "So
that's his foreign and unhappy name?" said Edward. "How did he come to tell it
to you?" "He had to," she said. "I borrowed ten pounds of him. I couldn't have
gone to Claridge's without money, you know." "Why Claridge's?" "It's the only
hotel that I know. And I had to have his name and address to send it back." "May
I send it back this afternoon?" Edward asked. "Yes--"

"And you take back all you said in the letter? You don't mean it?" "Not if you
didn't want me to." "And it wasn't really only because you thought I. . . ." "Of
course. At least. . . ." "Well, then," said Mr. Basingstoke, happily, "it never
happened. I fetched you as we arranged. We go on as we arranged. And Mr. Schultz
is only a bad dream to which I owe ten pounds." "And you're not angry? Then will
you lend me some money to buy a hat, and then we will go straight on to London."
"Yes," said Edward, controlling Charles, who had just seen the peaches and
thought they looked like something to eat. "But--if you won't think me a selfish
brute I should like to say just one thing." "Yes--" She wrinkled her brows
apprehensively. "Neither Charles nor I have had any luncheon. Would you very
much mind if we--"

"Oh, how hateful of me not to remember!" she said. "Let me come and talk to you
and feed Charles. What a darling he is! And you do forgive me, and you do
understand? And we're friends again, just as we were before?" "Yes. Just as we
were." "It's curious," she said, as they went back through the red and green and
blue and yellow of the garden, "that I feel as though I knew you ever so much
better, now we've quarreled." Mr. Schultz had, it appeared, after all, paid for
the two luncheons. Edward sent him two ten-pound notes and the sovereign, "with
compliments and thanks." "And that's the end of poor Mr. Schultz," she said,
gaily, and, as it proved, with complete inaccuracy. VIII

THE ROAD TO ----

THE drive to London was a silent one. Mr. Basingstoke did not want to talk; he
had come on one of those spaces where the emotions sleep, exhausted. He felt
nothing any more, neither anxiety as to the future nor pleasure at the nearness
of the furry heap beside him under which, presently, his companion slumbered
peacefully as a babe in its cot. His mind was blank, his heart was numbed; it
was not till the car reached the houses spilled over the pretty fields like ugly
toys emptied out of the play-box of a giant child, that mind or heart made any
movement. Then it happened that the breeze caught the edge of the fur and lifted
it, and he saw her little face softly flushed with sleep, lying very near him,
and his heart seemed all at once to come to life again with an awakening stab of
something that was not affection or even passion, but a kind of protective
exultation--a deep, keen longing to take care of, to guard, to infold safely
from all possible dangers and sorrows her who slept so happy-helpless beside
him. Then his mind awoke, too, and he found himself wondering. The Schultz
episode, his suspicions, resentment--the explication--all this should, one would
have thought, have brushed, like a rough hand, the bloom from the adventure.
And, instead of taking anything away, it had, even as she had said, added a soft
touch of intimacy to their friendship. Further, he now in his heart had the
memory that, for an instant, his thoughts had wronged her, that he had suspected
her of wavering, almost of light-mindedness, though his thought had taken no
such definite lines even to itself in its secret heart--and all the time there
had only been thought for him, sincere, delicate consideration, and, in the
matter of that man's accepted help, the trust of a child, and that innocence of
Una before which even lions like Schultz become shy and safe. Imagine a subject
who has suspected his princess of being, perhaps, not a princess at all, but one
masquerading in the robes and crown of a princess . . . when he shall find her
to be indeed royal, to what an ecstasy of loyalty will not his heart attain? So
it was now with Mr. Basingstoke. He caught the corner of the fur and reverently
covered the face of his princess. And now the houses were thick and the shops
began to score the streets with lines of color. He stopped at one of those big
shops where they sell everything, and she awoke and said, "Are we there?" "I
thought," said he, "that you said something about a hat." "Here?" she said,
looking at the shop with strong distaste. "Better here than really in London, I
thought. And you'll want other things. And do you mind buying a box or a
portmanteau or something? Because hotels like you to have luggage." "I've been
thinking--" she said, but he interrupted her. "Forgive me," he said, "but even
you cannot think your best thoughts when you're asleep." Then she laughed.
"Well, you must give me the money," she said, holding out a bare, unashamed
hand, "because I haven't any." He composed himself to wait, and he waited a long
time, a very, very long time. He cheered the waiting by the thought that she
could not, after all, have found the shop so unsuitable as it had, at the first
glance, seemed. He watched the doorway, and his eye became weary of the useless
snippets of lace and silk at something eleven-three with which the windows at
each side of the door were plastered. He noticed the people who went in, and the
many more who waited outside and longed for these absurd decorations--longed
with that passion which, almost alone of the passions, a girl may display to the
utmost immoderation without fear of censure or of shame. He observed the longing
in the eyes of little, half-developed, half-grown girls for this or that bit of
worthless frippery; he would have liked to call to them and say, "My dear
children, do go in and buy yourself each a fairing, and let me pay." But he knew
that so straightforward and simple a kindness would draw on him and on the
children shame and censure almost immeasurable. So he just sat and was sorry for
them, till he saw two of them titter together and look at him. Then he got out
of the car and went into the shop--they sold toys there as well as everything
else--to buy something himself. He could not find exactly what he wanted--in
shops crowded with glittering uselessnesses it is rarely that you can find the
particular uselessness on which you have set your heart--but Tommy of the Five
Bells had no fault to find with the big, brown-papered parcel which reached him
by the next day's afternoon post. He could not imagine any soldiers more
perfectly satisfying than these, no bricks more solid and square, no drafts more
neatly turned, no dominoes more smoothly finished. To Mr. Basingstoke's old
nurse the world seemed to hold nothing fairer than the lace collar and the
violet-silk necktie. "Do me for Sundays for years," she said, putting them back
in their tissue-paper and turning her attention to the box of sweets and the
stockings for the children. The girl who sold Mr. Basingstoke the lace collar
sniggered apart with a kindred sniggerer as she sold it to him, and delayed to
make out his bill, but the other girl, almost a child, with a black bow tying
her hair, sold him the stockings and was sympathetic and helpful. "How many
stockings ought a child to have, so as to have plenty?" he asked her,
confidentially. At the lace-counter he had made his own choice, in stern
silence. "Three pairs," said the girl; "that's one in wear, one in the wash, and
one in case of accidents." She glanced through the glass door at the motor, and
decided that he could afford it. "But, of course, four would be better." "I
should think six would be best," said he, "that's one for each day in the week,
and on Saturday they can stay in bed while their mother does the washing." "You
don't wash on Saturdays," said the girl, her little, plain face lighting up with
a smile. She saw the eye of the shop-walker on her and added, nervously, "Shall
we say six, then, sir; and what size? I mean what aged child? About what price?"
"Three to eleven," said he. "They're one and eleven-three," said she. "I mean
the children, not the stockings--there are five of them--what's five sixes?"
"Thirty," the girl told him, with a glance at the shop-walker that was almost
defiant in its triumph. "That's it, then," said he, "and sort out the sizes
properly, please, will you? Three six, two sevens, ten and eleven. And put in
some garters--children's stockings are always coming down, you know--"

The girl had not before sold garters to insane but agreeable gentlemen. She
hesitated and said in a low voice, "I don't think garters, sir. Suspenders are
more worn now--"

"Well, suspenders then. The means doesn't matter--it's the keeping up that's the
important thing." He laid a five-pound note on the counter, just as the shop-
walker came up to her with a slightly insolent, "Serving, Miss Moore?" "Sign,
sir," said Miss Moore, defending herself from his displeasure with the bill.
"Anything more, sir?" "I want some sweets," said Edward, and was directed to
"the third shop on the left, through there." It was not till two weeks later
that a satined and beribboned box of sweets arrived by post for Miss Moore.
"From Mary," said the legend within, and the postmark was Warwick. Mr.
Basingstoke counted on every one's having at least one relation or friend
bearing that commonest and most lovely of all names. And he was right. A distant
cousin got the credit of the gift, which made the little apprentice happy for a
day and interested for a week--exactly as Mr. Basingstoke had intended. His
imagination pleased him with the picture of the sudden surprise of a gift, in
that drab and subordinated life. By such simple means Mr. Basingstoke added
enormously to his own agreeable sensations. And by such little exercises of
memory as that which registered Miss Moore's name and the address of the shop he
made those pleasures possible for himself. The sweets he bought on that first
day of his elopement went to his nurse. He might have added more gifts, for the
pleasure of spending money was still as new as nice, but the voice of Charles
without drew him from the shop to settle a difference of opinion between that
tethered dog and the chauffeur. "Wanted to hang hisself over the side of the
car," the man explained, "and no loss to his mourning relations, if you ask me,"
he added, sourly. Edward had hardly adjusted the situation before she came out--
and he felt the sight of her was worth waiting for. She wore now a white coat
with touches of black velvet, and the hat was white, too, with black and a pink
rose or two. "It looks more like Bond Street than Peckham," he said as she got
in. "It surpasses my wildest dreams." "I had to make them trim it," she said,
"that's why I was such ages. All the ones they had were like Madge Wildfire--
insane, wild, unrelated feathers and bows born in Bedlam." Her eyes, under the
brim of the new hat, thrilled him, and when Charles, leaping on her lap, knocked
the hat crooked, scattered the mound of parcels, and made rosetted dust-marks on
the new cloak, her reception of these clumsy advances would have endeared her to
any one to whom she was not already dear. "Well," she said, tucking Charles in
between them, setting the hat straight, and dusting the coat, all in one
competent movement, "have you had time yet to think what you're going to do with
me?" "I have had time," he said, rearranging the mound. "I'm so sorry I was so
long, but. . . ." "It was worth it," he said, looking at the hat. "Well, what I
propose is that you should go, not to Claridge's, which is just the place where
your relations will look for you, but to one of those large, comfortable hotels
where strictly middle-class people stay when they come up to London on matters
connected with their shops or their farms. I will give you as long as you like
to unpack your new portmanteau and your parcels. Then I'll call for you and take
you out to dinner." "But I thought we were going on tramp," she objected.
"Dinner first, tramping afterward," he said, "a long while afterward. I don't
propose to let you tramp in those worldly shoes." They were new and brown and
soft to look at--as soft as other people's gloves, he thought. "Don't dress for
dinner," he said as they drew up in front of the Midlothian Hotel. "And, I say,
I expect it would be safer to dine here; it's absolutely the last place where
any of your people would look for you." The dress in which she rejoined him
later was a walking-dress of dark blue melting to a half transparency at neck
and sleeves. "I bought it at that shop," she said. "It isn't bad, is it? They
said it was a Paris model--and, anyhow, it fits." He wanted to tell her that she
looked adorable in it, and that she would look adorable not only in a Paris
model, but in a Whitechapel one. But he didn't tell her this. Nor did he tell
her much else. The dinner owed to her any brightness that it showed when shelved
as a memory. She exerted herself to talk. And it was the talk of a lady to her
dinner partner--light, gay, and sparkling, anything but intimate--hardly
friendly, even; polite, pleasant, indifferent. He did not like it; he did not
like, either, his own inability to carry on the duet in the key she had set, and
at the same time he knew that he could not change the key. The surge of the
world was round them again, even though it was only the world of the provincial
haberdasher and the haberdasher's provincial wife. The smooth, swift passage of
laden waiters across the thick carpets of the dining-room; the little tables gay
with pink sweet-peas and rosy-hued lamps; the women in smart blouses, most of
them sparkling beadily; the rare evening toilettes, worn in every case with an
air of conscious importance, as of one to whom wearing evening dress was a rare
and serious exception to the rule of life; the buzz of conversation curiously
softer and lower in pitch than the talk at the Ritz and the Carlton--all made an
atmosphere of opposition, an atmosphere in which all that appeared socially
impossible--which, under the stars last night, had seemed natural, inevitable--
the only thing to do. This world to which he had brought her had, at least, this
in common with the world which dines at the Carlton and the Ritz, that it
bristled with the negation of what last night had seemed the simplest solution
in the world. But it had only seemed simple, as he now saw, because the solution
had been arrived at out of the world. Here, beyond any doubt, was the antagonism
to all that he and she had planned. This was the world where the worst scandal
is the unusual--where it would be less socially blighting to steal another man's
wife than to set off on a tramp with a princess to whom you were tied neither by
marriage nor by kinship. It was a lengthy silence in which he thought these
things. She, in the silence, had been making little patterns with bread-crumbs
till the waiter swept all away, made their table tidy, and brought the dessert.
She looked up from the table-cloth just in time to see Edward smile grimly.
"What is it?" she asked, a little timidly. "I was only thinking," he said, "what
a two-penny halfpenny business we've made of life, with our electric light and
our motors and our ugly houses and our civilization generally. A civilization
replete with every modern inconvenience! In the good old days nobody would have
minded a knight and a princess traveling through the world together, or even
around the world, for that matter. Whereas now. . . ." She looked at him,
gauging this thought. And he knew that he had said enough to make a stupid woman
say, "I thought you would want to back out of it." What would she say? For a
moment she said nothing. Then, sure of herself as of him, she smiled and said:

"We're going to teach Nobody to mind . . . its own business." And then he said
what he had come near to being afraid she would say. "You don't want to back out
of it, then?" he said, and she shook her head. "No," she answered, slowly, and
then, after a pause, again, "No." "You are willing to go through the wood with
your faithful knight, Princess? He will be a faithful knight." "Yes," she said,
"I know." And then suddenly he perceived what before had not been plain to him--
that the elopement that had seemed to offer so royal a road to all that he
really desired was not a road, but a barrier. That he was now in a position far
less advantageous than that of a man who meets a girl all hedged around with the
machinery of chaperonage, since, whereas the courtship may, where there is
chaperonage, evade and escape it, where there is none the lover must himself
supply its need--must, in fine, be lover and chaperon in one. Far from placing
himself in a position where love-making would be easy, he had set himself where
it was well-nigh impossible. He who courts a lady in her own home, surrounded by
all the fences set up by custom and convention, can, at least, be sure that if
his courtship be unwelcome it will be rejected. The lady need not listen unless
she will. But when the princess rides through the wood with the knight whom she
has chosen to be her champion she must needs listen if he chooses to speak. She
can, of course, leave him and his championing, but what sort of championship is
it which drives the princess back to the very dragon from which it rescued her?
Edward saw, with dismal exactness, the intolerable impossibilities of the
situation. They would go on--supposing her friends didn't interfere--as friends
and comrades, brother and sister, she more and more friendly, he more and more
tongue-tied, till at last every spark of the fire of the great adventure was
trampled out by the flat foot of habit. She might--and probably would, since men
and women invariably misunderstand one another--believe his delicate reticences
to be merely the indications of a waning interest, and construe knightly
chivalry into mere indifference. If he made love to her--who could not get away
from the love-making without destroying that which made it possible--he would be
a presuming cad. If he didn't, what could she think but that he regretted his
bargain? As he sat there opposite his princess, alone with her among the thickly
thinning crowd, he wondered whether out of this any happiness could come to
them. When he had proposed the elopement he had meant marriage; the incurable
temperamental generosity which had prompted him to offer her the help of the
escape, on her own terms, now seemed to him the grossest folly. Yet how could he
have held the pistol to her head, saying, "No marriage, no elopement." Her voice
broke his reverie. "I am very tired," she said. "I think I'll say good night. Do
you mind?" He almost fancied that her lip trembled a little, like a child's who
is unhappy. "Of course you're tired," he said, "and, I say, you don't mind my
not having talked for the last few minutes? I've been thinking of you--nothing
else but you." "Yes," said she, "it all looks very different here, as you say.
Perhaps it will look more different even than this to-morrow. Shall we start on
our tramp to-morrow--or shall I just go back and let's forget we ever tried to
do something out of a book? I think you will tell me honestly to-morrow whether
you think I had better go back." "To-morrow," he said, looking into her eyes, "I
will tell you everything you wish to hear. We'll spend to-morrow in telling each
other things. Shall we? Good night, Princess. Sleep well, and dream of the open
road." "I shall probably," said the princess, "dream of my aunts." IX

THE MEDWAY

"IF you had a map and I could put my finger on any place I chose, I should open
my eyes the least bit in the world and put my finger on the Thames," she said at
the breakfast-table, where she had for the first time sat opposite to him and
poured his coffee, looking as demurely domestic as any haberdasher's wife of
them all. "The Thames?" he said. "I know a river worth two of that. . . ." "A
river that's worth two of the Thames must be the river of Paradise." "So it is,"
he assured her, "and probably the Thames is infested by your relations. For a
serious and secret conference such as we propose to ourselves there is no place
like the Medway." She had thought the Medway to be nothing but mud and barges,
and said so. "Ah, that's below Maidstone. Above-- But you'll see. Wear a shady
hat and bring that conspirator-looking cloak you wore last night--the fine
weather can't possibly last forever. Twenty minutes for breakfast, half an hour
for a complete river toilette, and we catch the ten-seventeen from Cannon
Street, easily." "I haven't a complete river toilette. And you? I thought you
left all your possessions at the Five Bells--"

"I am not the homeless orphan you deem me," he said, accepting kidneys and bacon
from a sleepy waiter. "I have a home, though a humble one, and, what's more,
it's just around the corner--Montague Street, to be exact. Next door to the
British Museum. So central, is it not? Some inward monitor whispered to me, 'She
will want to go on the river,' and I laid out the complete boating-man's
costume, down to white shoes with new laces." "Did you really think I should
think of the river? How clever of you." "I am clever," he said, modestly, "and
good. It is better to be good than clever. That is why I cannot conceal from you
that I never thought of the river till you spoke about it. But I really have
some flannels, little as you may think it, and we'll stop and get some boating-
shoes for you, if you want them. Only you'll have to buy them with lightning
speed and change them at Yalding." "Is that the name of the place? How lovely!
If I had a title I should like it to be Lady Yalding--or the Duchess of Yalding.
Her Grace the Duchess of Yalding will give you some more coffee, if you like."
"Why come down in the world? You were a princess last night." "Princess of
where?" she asked. "We will give a morning to a proper definition of the
boundaries of your territory one of these days. Meantime, are you aware that I
don't even know the name by which the common world knows you?" "I know you
don't," she said, "and I'd much rather you didn't. If I'm to be a princess I'll
be the Princess of Yalding, and if she has to have another name we'll choose a
new one. I should like everything to be new for our new adventure." They got the
shoes and they caught the train, and, now the little gritty walk from Yalding
station was over, they stood on the landing-stage of the Anchor, looking down on
a sort of Sargasso Sea of small craft that stretched along below the edge of the
Anchor garden. "The canoe would be nice," she said. "It would not be nice with
Charles," he said, firmly. "Charles's first conscious act after we became each
other's was to upset me out of a canoe, to the heartless delight of three picnic
parties, four pairs of sweethearts, two dons, and a personal friend." "If
Charles is to come _in_ the boat," she said, "perhaps that fishing-punt. . . ."
"Water within, water without," he said, spurning the water-logged punt. "This
little sculling-boat will do. No--no outriggers for us, thank you," he said to
the Anchor's gloomy boatman, who came toward them like a sort of fresh-water
Neptune with a boat-hook for trident. "He might, at least, have smiled," she
said, as the sour-faced Neptune man turned toward the boat-house. "I hope he'll
give us red cushions and a nice, 'arty sort of carpet." "You get no carpets
here," he assured her. "Lucky if we have so much as a strip of cocoanut matting.
This is not the languid, luxurious Thames. On the Medway life is real, life is
earnest. You mostly pull a hundred yards, anchor and fish; or if you do go
farther from harbor you open your own locks, with your own crowbar. The best
people are always a bit shabby. You and I, no doubt, are the cynosure of every
eye. Yes, that'll do; we'll put the basket in the stern, then the ginger-beer
here. We'll put the cloak over it to keep it cool. All right, thank you. Crowbar
in? Right. Throw in the painter. Right." Neptune pushed them with his trident
and the boat swung out into midstream. A few strokes took them out of sight of
the Anchor, its homely, flowered garden, its thatched house, its hornbeam arbor;
they passed, too, the ugly, bare house that some utilitarian misdemeanant has
built next to it, then nothing but depths of willow copse, green and gray, and
the grassy curves of the towing-path where the loosestrife grows, and the willow
herb, the yellow yarrow, and the delicate plumes of the meadow-sweet. "'Blond
loosestrife and red meadow-sweet among,         We tracked the shy Thames
shore.'" he quoted. "It's like a passport," she said--"or finding that you
haven't lost your ticket, after all--when people have read the same things and
remembered them. But don't you love the bit that begins about 'the tempestuous
moon in early June,' and ends up with the 'uncrumpling fern and scent of hay
new-mown'? I wonder why it is that when people quote poetry in books you feel
that they're Laura-Matilda-ish, and when they do it really you quite like it. Do
you write poetry?" He looked at her guiltily. "Look out to the left," he said;
"there's an absolutely perfect thatched barn, and four oast-houses--you know,
where they dry the hops, with little fires of oak chips. Have you ever been in
an oast-house? We will some day--"

She was silent as the boat slipped past the old farm buildings, the old trees,
the long perfection of the barn, and the deep red and green of the mossy oast-
house wall going down sheer to the smooth, brown water, and hung at crevice and
cranny with little ferns and little flowers--herb-robert and stonecrop. The
reflection, till his oars shattered it, was as perfect as the building itself,
and she drew a deep breath and turned to look back as the boat slid past. "You
were right," she said, "it is a darling little river. And you _do_ write poetry,
don't you?" "Is this the confessional or the Medway?" he asked. "I know you do,"
she said. "Of course you do--everybody does, as well as they can, I suppose; I
can't, but I do," she added, encouragingly. "We will write poems for each other,
on wet nights in the caravan, about Nature and Fate and Destiny, and things like
that--won't we?" The quiet river, wandering by wood and meadow, bordered by its
fringe of blossoms and flowering grasses, the smooth backwaters where leaning
trees touched hands across the glassy mirror, and water-lilies gleamed white and
starry, the dappled shadows, the arch of blue sky, the gay sunshine, and the
peace of the summer noon all wrought in one fine spell to banish from their
thoughts all fear and dismay, all doubts and hesitations. Here they were, two
human beings--young, healthy, happy--with all fair things before them and all
sad things behind. It seemed to them both, at that moment, that they need ask
nothing more of life than a long chain of days like this. They were silent, and
each felt in the other's silence no embarrassment or weariness, but only a
serene content. Even Charles, overcome by the spirit of the hour, was silent,
slumbering on the matting between them, in heavy abandonment. The perfection of
their surroundings left them free to catch the delicate flavor of the wonderful
adventure--a flavor which the dust and hurry of yesterday had disguised and
distorted a little. He looked at her and thought, "It is worth while--it is
indeed worth while"--and knew that if only the princess were for his winning the
moment of rashness which only yesterday he had almost regretted would be in its
result the most fortunate moment of his life. She looked at him, and a little
fear lifted its head and stung her like a snake. What if he were to regret the
adventure? What if he were to like her less and less--she put it to herself like
that--while she grew to like him more and more? She looked at his eyes and his
hands, and the way the hair grew on brow and nape, and it seemed to her that
thus and not otherwise should a man's hair and eyes and hands be. But they did
not look at each other so that their eyes met till the boat rounded the corner
to the weir-pool below Stoneham Lock. Then their eyes met, and they smiled, and
she said:

"I am very glad to be here." It seemed to her that she owed him the admission.
He took it as she would have wished him to take it. "I am glad you like my
river," he said. She was very much interested in the opening of the lock gates
and deplored the necessity which kept her in the boat, hanging on to the edge of
the lock with a boat-hook while he wielded the crowbar. The locks on the Medway
are primitive in their construction and heavy to work. There are no winches or
wheels or artful mechanical contrivances of weights and levers and cables. There
are sluices, and from the sluice-gates posts rise, little iron-bound holes in
them, holes in which the urgent nose of the crowbar exactly fits. The boatman
leans indolently against the tarred, unshaped tree trunk whose ax-wrought end is
the top of the lock gate; the tree trunk swings back above the close sweet-
clover mat that edges the lock; the lock gates close--slow, leisurely, and
dignified. Then the boatman stands on the narrow plank hung by chains to each
lock gate, and with his crowbar chunks up the sluice, with a pleasant ringing
sound of iron on iron, securing the raised sluice with a shining iron pin that
hangs by a little chain of its own against the front of the lock gate, like an
ornament for a gentleman's fob. If you get your hand under the pin and the
sluice happens to sink, you hurt your hand. Slowly the lock fills with gentle
swirls of foam-white water, slowly the water rises, and the boat with it, the
long gates unclose to let you out--slow, leisurely, dignified--and your boat
sweeps out along the upper tide, smoothly gliding like a boat in a dream. Thus
the two passed through Stoneham Lock and the next and the next, and then came to
the Round Lock, which is like a round pond whose water creeps in among the roots
of grass and forget-me-not and spearmint and wild strawberry. And so at last to
Oak Weir Lock, where the turtledoves call from the willow wood on the island
where the big trees are, and the wide, sunny meadows where the sheep browse all
day till the shepherd calls them home in the evening--the shepherd with his dog
at his heels and his iron crook, polished with long use and stately as a crozier
in a bishop's hand. They met no one--or almost no one. At East Peckham a single
rustic looked at them over the middle arch of the seven-arched bridge built of
fine, strong stone in the days of the Fourth Edward, and at Lady White Weir a
tramp gave them good day and said it was a good bit yet to Maidstone. He spat in
the water, not in insolence, but contemplatively, and Edward gave him a silver
token of good will and a generous pinch of dark tobacco, with a friendly,
"Here's for luck." "You're a gentleman," the tramp retorted, grudgingly, and
spat again, and slouched off along the green path. These two were all. Not
another human face did they see for all the length of their little voyage. All
the long and lovely way it was just these two and the river and the fields and
the flowers and the blue sky and youth and summer and the sun. At Oak Weir they
put the boat through the lock, and under the giant trees they unpacked the
luncheon-basket they had brought from the Midlothian--how far away and how
incredibly out of the picture such a place now seemed!--and sat among the
twisted tree roots, and ate and drank and were merry like children on a holiday.
It was late when they reached the weir, and by the time the necessity of the
return journey urged itself upon them the shadows were growing longer and
blacker till they stretched almost across the great meadow. The shepherd had
taken the sheep away, passing the two with a nod reserved, but not in its
essence unfriendly. Edward had smoked a good many cigarettes, and they had
talked a good deal. It was as he had said at their first meeting, they were like
two travelers who, meeting, hasten to spread, each before the other, the relics
and spoils of many a long and lonely journey. "I wish we could have stayed
here," she said at last. "If we had only had the sense to fold our tents, like
the Arabs, and bring them with us, I suppose we could have camped here." "It
isn't only tents," he said; "it's all the elegancies of the toilette--brushes
and combs and slippers. You must return to the _Caravansary_ that guards these
treasures. The nine-fifty-five will do us. But we haven't much more than time.
There's the boat to pay for and the basket to get to the station. Come,
Princess, if we could stay here forever we would, but since we can't we won't
stay another minute." Once in the boat, and in the lock, she leaned back,
holding the edge of the lock with the boat-hook, and with the other hand
detaining Charles. She looked back dreamily on the day which had been, and she
did not pretend that it had not been, the happiest day in her life. To be with
one who pleased--he certainly did please--and to whom one's every word and look
was so obviously pleasing! It is idle to deny that she felt smoothed, stroked
the right way, like a cat who is fortunate in its friends. And now all days were
to be like this. The crowbar began its chinking--once, twice--then a jarring
sound, and a low but quite distinct "Damn!" She started out of her dream. "I beg
your pardon," he was saying, "but I've caught my finger, like a fool. I can't do
anything. Can you come here?" "Of course." She stepped out of the boat. The
water in the lock had hardly begun to subside. She took the painter and, holding
it, went to him, Charles following with cheerful bounds. The sluice had slipped
a little and its iron pin held his finger firmly clipped against the tarred wood
below. She did not cry out nor tremble nor do any of the things a silly woman
might have done. "Tell me what to do," was all she said. He told her how to hold
the crowbar, how to raise the sluice so that the finger might be released. She
did it all exactly and carefully. When the finger was released he wrapped his
handkerchief around it. "Does it hurt?" she said. And he said, "Yes." "You must
put it in the water," she said. "You can't reach it here. Come into the boat."
He obeyed her. She came and sat by him in the stern--sat there quite silently.
No "I'm so sorry!" or "Can't I do anything?" Her hand was on Charles's collar.
His eyes were closed. His finger was badly crushed; the blood stained the water,
and presently she saw it. She kept her eyes fixed on the spreading splash of
red. "You haven't fainted, have you?" she said at last. "It's getting very
dark." "No," he said, and opened his eyes. She raised hers, and both perceived
one reason for the darkness--the boat had sunk nine feet or so. The dark,
dripping walls of the lock towered above them. While he had fought his pain and
she her sympathy the lock had been slowly emptying itself. They were at the
bottom, or almost, and up those smooth walls there was no climbing out. "Push
the boat against the lower gate," he said; and as she obeyed he added, "I must
try to climb up somehow. I'll pitch the crowbar up on shore first. Where is it?"
"I left it on the lock gate," she said. "Wasn't that right?" "It doesn't
matter," he told her; but even as he spoke the sluice, which the weight of the
water had held in place after the pin had been removed, now, as the waters above
and below it grew level with each other, fell into its place with a splash and
an echoing boom, and with the shock the crowbar fell from its resting-place on
the tarred ledge and disappeared in the water below. "Lucky it didn't fall on
us," he said, and laughed. "It's no use my climbing out now, Princess. I
couldn't open the gate, anyhow. We're caught like two poor little rabbits in a
trap--or three, if you count Charles--and here we must stay till some one comes
along with a crowbar. I dare say there'll be a barge by and by. D'you mind very
much?" "Not a bit," she assured him, cheerfully. "It's all my fault, anyhow,
and, besides, I enjoy it. Let me tie your hand up, and then you must smoke till
rescue comes." "Aren't you cold?" he asked, for indeed the air was chill in that
watery inclosure. "Not a bit. I have my cloak," she said, and snuggled into it.
"But you'll be cold. Have half--it's a student's cloak, eight yards around." He
accepted the offer, and they sat with the cloak wrapped around them both, with
Charles snuggling under the lower folds of it. "If you hear a footstep or a
whistle or anything, shout," he said. "I do wish I hadn't let you in for this. I
hate a fool." "I don't mind a bit, except about your finger. The bone isn't
broken, is it?" "No," he said; "I've just made a fuss about nothing. I hate a
fool, as I said before." She thought of the wet patch on the tarred wood and the
red patch in the water, and he felt her shiver. "It's very decent of you," said
she, "not to scold me about leaving the crowbar there." "A good Medway boatman
should never be separated from his crowbar," he said, monitorily. "I know that
now," she said. "I ought to have known before. I hate a fool, too." X

OAK WEIR LOCK

"IF it weren't for your finger--" said she. "My finger is the just reward of
idiocy and doesn't deserve any kind thought from you." "If it weren't for that,
I should rather enjoy it," she said. "There's plenty to eat left in the basket.
Shall I get it out and let's have supper before it's quite dark? I do really
think it's fun. Don't you?" "That's right," said he, with a show of bitterness,
"make the best of it out of pity for the insane idiot who landed you in this
fix. Be bright, be womanly, never let me guess that a cold, damp lock and a 'few
bits of broken vittles' are not really better than a decent supper and a roof
over your head. A fig for the elegancies of civilization and the comforts of
home! Go on being tactful. I adore it." "I meant what I said," she answered,
with gentle insistence. "I do rather like it. I'll whine about my dinner and my
looking-glass, if you like, but I'll get the supper first. Isn't it glorious to
think that there's no one at home--where the comforts and the elegancies are--no
one to be anxious about us because we're late, and scold us when we get home?
Liberty," she ended, reflectively, "is a very beautiful thing. I suppose no one
is likely to come along this way till the shepherd comes in the morning?" "We'll
hope for better luck," said he. "I say, you'll never trust me to take care of
you again after this silly business--"

"I don't know," she said, deliberately, "that I ever asked you to take care of
me. Did I? You were to help me--yes, and you have helped me--but I don't think I
want to be taken care of, any more than another man would want it. I was in a
difficulty and you helped me. If you were in a difficulty and I helped you, you
wouldn't expect me to take care of you forever, would you?" "I don't know," he
said. "If you hadn't been extraordinarily sensible I should still be there with
my hand in the thumbscrew." "Did you think," she asked, sweetly, "that all women
were inevitably silly?" Charles raised his head and growled. "There," said she,
"you see, even Charles repudiates the idea." If this was so, Charles instantly
repudiated the idea with more growls and the added violence of barks. She
muffled him in the cloak and listened. A footstep on the towing-path. "Hullo!"
she called, and Edward added, "Hi, you there!" and Charles, wriggling forcefully
among the folds of the cloak, barked again. "That ought to fetch them, whoever
they are," said Edward, and stood up. Even as he did so a voice said, urgently
and quite close above them. "'Ush, can't yer!" and a head and shoulders leaning
over the edge of the lock came as a dark silhouette against the clear dark blue
of the starry sky. For it was now as dark as a July night is--and that, as we
know, is never really dark at all. '"Ush!" repeated the voice. "Shut up, I tell
yer!" and, surprisingly and unmistakably, it was to the two in the boat that he
was speaking. "Make that dawg o' yours choke hisself--stow it, can't yer! Yer
don't want to be lagged, do yer? Yer aren't got 'arf a chants once any one knows
you're 'ere. Don't you know you're wanted? The police'll be along some time in
the night, and then you're done for." "I think," said Edward, with extreme
politeness, "that you are, perhaps, mistaking us for acquaintances, whereas we
are strangers to you. But if you could be so kind as to open the gates and lend
us a crowbar to get through the other locks you would not be the loser." "I know
yer, right enough," said the man. "Yer ain't no strangers to me. It was me as
'ired yer the boat up at the Anchor. The boss 'e sent me out to look for yer.
Only 'e doesn't know I know about your being wanted. Least said soonest mended's
what I allus say. Where's yer crow got to?" "In the water," said Edward;
"dropped off the lock gate." "Clumsy!" said the man, giving the word its full
vocative value. "Whereabouts?" "Just over there," said Edward. "Then yer tuck up
yer shirt-sleeve and run yer 'and down and pass that there crow up to me. There
ain't not above two foot o' water in 'er, if there's that." To your Medway man
the lock is as unalterably feminine as his ship to a sailor. It was she who
plunged her arm in the water, and, sure enough, there was the crowbar lying
quietly and tamely beside them--"like a pet poodle," as she said. "Give me ahold
of that there crow," said the man. He lay face downward and reached down an arm.
Edward stood on the thwart and reached up. The crowbar changed hands, and the
head and shoulders of the deliverer disappeared. "I don't see what he wants the
bar for," said Edward. "The lock's empty. Perhaps he means to go on ahead and
open the other locks for us. I wonder who he took us for, and what the poor
wretches are 'wanted' for--"

"It's a sinister word in that connection, isn't it?" said she. "Wanted!" They
pushed the boat toward the lower lock gate and held on to the lock-side, waiting
till the lock gate should open and they should be able to pass out and begin
their journey down the river to the Anchor. But the gates did not open, and
almost at once a tremor agitated the boat. Edward tightened his grip of the
boat-hook as the incoming rush of water took the boat's nose and held it hard.
"The idiot!" he said. "The silly idiot! He's filling the lock." He was, and the
rush of the incoming water quite drowned any remonstrances that might have been
addressed to him. Boat and water rose swiftly, the upper gates opened, and, as
they passed through, their deliverer laid his hand on the gunwale, as though to
aid the boat's passage. But, instead, he stopped it. "See 'ere, gov'ner," he
said, low and hoarse and exactly like a conspirator, "I couldn't bleat it out
for all the country to hear while yer was down in the lock, but I knows as
you're wanted and yer may think it lucky it's me as come after yer and not the
gov'ner nor yet the police." "I do really think," said she, softly, "that you're
making a mistake. The police don't really want us." "Oh, I got a bit of candle,"
was the unexpected rejoinder. "Get the young lady to hold the cloak up so as it
don't shine from 'ere to Tunbridge to give yer away like, and yer light the dip
and 'ave a squint at this 'ere." He held out the candle and matches and a jagged
rag of newspaper. "'Ere," he said, "'longside where I'm 'olding of it." She made
a sort of screen of the cloak. Edward lit the candle, and when the flame had
darkened and brightened again he read as follows:

MISSING--Young lady, height five feet six, slight       build, dark hair and
eyes, pale complexion. Last seen       at Jevington, Sussex. Wearing black
chiffon and satin       dress, black satin slippers, and a very large French
circular cloak with stitched collar. Has no money and       no hat. Twenty
pounds will be paid to any one giving       information as to her whereabouts.
"Well," said Edward, blowing out the candle, "this lady has a hat, as you see,
and she hasn't a black dress and satin slippers. Thank you for letting us
through; here's something to get a drink with. Hand over the crowbar, please,
and good night to you." "Not so fast, sir," said the man, still holding on, "and
don't make to jab me over the fingers with the boat-'ook, like what you was
thinking of. I'm your friend, I am. I see that piece in the paper 'fore ever a
one of them, but I never let on. That's why the gov'ner sent me, 'cause why--'e
didn't think I knowed, and 'e means to 'ave that twenty pounds hisself." "But,"
said she, "you see, I have got a hat and--"

"Yes, miss," said the man, "an' you've got the cloak, large and black and
stitched collar, and all; it's that what's give yer away." "But supposing I
_was_ the young lady," she said, grasping Edward's arm in the darkness, and
signaling to him not to interfere with feminine diplomacy, "you wouldn't give me
up to the police, would you? I wouldn't give you up if the police wanted you."
"'Course I wouldn't," he answered, earnestly. "Ain't that what I'm a-saying? I'm
'ere to 'elp yer do a bolt. The minute I saw that there bit in the paper I says
to myself, 'It's them,' and why shouldn't I 'ave the twenty pounds as well as
any one else?" "There," said Edward, in a low voice, "you see! Let me deal with
him." But again her hand implored. "You're going to give us up to the police for
twenty pounds?" she said, reproachfully. He groaned. "'Ow yer do talk!" he said.
"Women is all alike when it comes to talking. Stop talking and listen to me.
Can't yer understand plain words? What yer got to do is to leave the boat at
Mutton Worry Lock--that's three locks up--bunk across the fields to Tunbridge.
If yer got money enough--and I'm sartain yer 'as, by the looks of yer--yer 'ire
one of them motors and get away as fast as yer can. Get one at the Castle. Say
yer going to Brighton, and when yer get away from the town tell the chap to
drive t'other way." "That's a good plan," said she. "I mapped it all out as I
come along," he said, with simple pride. "And, mind yer, I'm trusting yer like I
shouldn't have thought I'd 'a' trusted nobody. 'Ave yer got the twenty pounds
about yer?" he asked, anxiously. "No," said she. "Can't be helped, then." He
breathed a sigh of resignation. "I'll just give yer my direction and yer send
the ready to me. 'Oo says I don't trust yer?" "You mean," said Edward, slowly,
and would not be checked any longer by that hand on his arm--"you mean that you
expect us to give you twenty pounds not to give us up to the police? The police
have nothing to do with us. The whole thing's moonshine. Take your hand off the
boat and get along home." "Any man," said he who had been called Neptune--"any
man as had the feelings of a man would think of this--young lady. Even if yer
was to prove to Poad as yer wasn't wanted for nothin' criminal--it's none so
easy to make Poad see anything, neither"--he ended, abruptly, and began anew.
"Look 'ere, gov'ner, on account of your lady I say do a bolt. An' why should I
be the loser? I only got to stick to the boat, whichever way yer go--up and down
--and soon as yer land where there's a copper, lagged yer'll be to a dead cart,
and only yourself to thank for it. Whereas I'm only trying to be your friend, if
you'd only see it." "I don't see why you should be so friendly," said Edward,
now entirely losing control of the situation. "Nor I shouldn't see it, neither,
if it was only you," was the rejoinder. "He's quite right," she whispered.
"Promise what he wants and let's get away. I know exactly what Poad is like. We
should never make him understand anything. I couldn't bear it. Let's go. If
you've got twenty pounds, give it to him and let's go." "Think of your young
lady," repeated the voice out of the darkness. "If yer promise to let me 'ear by
the post, I'll take your word for it. I'm your true friend, and I knows a
gentleman when I sees one." "If you were a true friend," said Edward, "you
wouldn't want paying for minding your own business." "Aw, naw," he said, "'old
'ard, gov'ner. Ain't it a man's own business when there's twenty pounds to be
made? Says I to myself, if it's worth some one's while to pay the money to catch
'er, it's well worth the gentleman's while to shell out and keep 'er, and. . .
." "Oh, hold your tongue!" said Edward. "Go on ahead and get the next lock
ready. I'll give you the money. The lady wishes it." "She's got her 'ead the
right way on," said the friend in need. "Pull ahead, sir." "But you can't, with
your finger like that," she said. "I'll pull." "Why not let me?" Neptune
suggested. "We'd get there in 'alf the time," he added, with blighting candor.
So Neptune pulled the boat up to Mutton Worry Lock and the two crouched under
the cloak. Charles, who might have been expected to be hostile to so strange a
friend, received him with almost overwhelming condescension. At Mutton Worry
Lock the deliverer said:

"Now 'ere yer deserts the ship, and 'ere I finds 'er and takes her back. And
look 'ere, sir, I'm nobody's enemy but my own, so I am. And of course if I was
to 'ave the twenty pounds it's my belief I'd drink myself under the daisies
inside of a week. Let me 'ear by the post--William Beale, care of the Anchor
Hotel--and send me ten bob a week till the money's gone. It'll come easier to
yer, paying it a little at a time like--and better for me in the long run. Yer
ought to be a duke, yer ought. I never thought you'd 'a' ris' to the twenty. I'd
'a' been satisfied with five--and that'll show yer whether I'm a true friend or
not." "I really think you are," she said, and laughed gently. "Good-by." "Good
evening, miss, and thank yer, I'm sure. Never say good-by; it's unlucky between
friends." "Here's a sovereign," said Edward, shortly. "Good night. You're jolly
fond of the sound of your own voice, aren't you?" "Sort of treat for me, sir,"
said Beale, always eagerly explanatory. "Don't often 'ear it. D'you know what
they calls me at the Anchor, owing to me 'aving learnt to keep my tongue atween
my teeth, except among friends? 'William the Silent's' my pet name. A gent as
comes for the angling made that up, and it stuck, it did. Bear to the left till
you come to the boat-'ouse, cater across the big meadow, and you'll hit
Tunbridge all right, by the Printing Works. So long, sir; so long, miss." Thus
they parted. "What an adventure!" she said; "and I believe William the Silent
believes himself to be a model of chivalrous moderation. He would have been
satisfied with five pounds." "I believe he would, too," said Edward, with a
grudging laugh. "It's your _beaux yeux_. The man has gone home feeling that he
has as good as sacrificed fifteen pounds to a quixotic and romantic impulse.
Wretched blackmailer though he is, he could not resist a princess." "I like
William," she said, decisively. "After all, as he says, one must live. Let's
leave the cloak under this hedge. Shall we? It's like getting rid of the body.
And I'll buy a flaxen wig to-morrow. And do you think it would be a help if I
rouged a little and wore blue spectacles? It will be the saving of us, of
course." "I hope to heavens we get a motor in Tunbridge," said he. "You must be
tired out." "I'm not in the least tired," she said. "I'm stepping out like a
man, don't you think? I've enjoyed everything beyond words. What a world it is
for adventures once you step outside the charmed circle of your relations. Look
at all the things that have happened to us already!" "I didn't mean anything to
happen except pleasant things," said he. "Ah!" she said, with a fleeting
seriousness, "life isn't like that. But there's been nothing but pleasant things
so far--at least, almost nothing." "Won't you take my arm?" he said. "What for?"
"To help you along, I suppose," he said, lamely. She stopped expressly to stamp
her foot. "I don't want helping along," she said. "I'm not a cripple or a baby--
and--"

He did not answer. And they walked on in silence through the starry, silent
night. She spoke first. "I don't want helping along," she said. "But I'd like to
take your arm to show there's no ill-feeling. You take an arm on the way to
dinner," she assured the stars, "and why not on the way to Tunbridge?" The way
to Tunbridge was short. They found a car, and the night held no more adventures
for them. But in a sheltered nook in the weir stream below Jezebel's Lock a
candle set up on a plate illuminated the green of alder and ash and the smooth
blackness of the water, shedding on a lonely supper that air as of a festival
which can only be conferred by candle-light shining on the green of growing
leaves. There, out of sight of the towing-path, Mr. William Beale, charmed to
fancy and anticipation by the possession of a golden milled token, made himself
a feast of the "broken vittles" in the derelict Midlothian basket, and in what
was left of the red wine of France toasted the lady of his adventure. "'Ere's to
'er," he said to the silence and mysteries of wood and water. '"Ere's to 'er.
She was a corker, for sure. Sight too good for a chap like 'im," he insisted,
adding the natural tribute of chivalry to beauty; drank again and filled his
pipe. Edward, from sheer force of habit, had smoothed the parting with tobacco.
"Not but," said William the Silent--"not but what I've known worse than 'im, by
long chalks. Ten bob a week--and 'e'll send it along, too--good as a pension.
'E'll send it along." He did. William the Silent had not misjudged his man. XI

THE GUILDHALL

"WHERE is Charles?" she asked next day. Edward had called for her early, had
paid the Midlothian's bill and tipped the Midlothian's servants, and now they
were in a taxi on their way to Paddington. She had definitely put her finger on
the map that morning, and its tip had covered the K's of Kenilworth and Warwick.
She was still almost breathless with the hurry with which she had been swept
away from the safe anchorage of the hotel, "and couldn't we have the hood down?"
she added. "Charles," said Edward, "is at present boarded out at a mews down
Portland Road way, and I think we'd better keep the hood up. Look here! I never
thought of the newspapers. This is worse than ever." He handed her the
_Telegraph_. Yesterday's advertisement was repeated in it--with this addition:

May be in company with tall, fair young man. Blue       eyes, military
appearance. Possesses large, white       bull-terrier. "Oh dear! They'll track
us down," she said, and laughed. "What sleuth-hounds they are! But they can't do
anything to me, can they? They can't take me back, I mean. I'm twenty-one, you
know. Can't you do as you like when you're twenty-one?" She looked at the paper
again, and now her face suddenly became clouded and her eyes filled with tears.
"I never thought of that." She hesitated a moment and handed him the paper,
pointing to the place with the finger that had found Warwick and Kenilworth.
Below the advertisement touching the young man and the bull-terrier, he read:

SILVER LOCKS--Come back. I am ill and very anxious. AUNT ALICE. "That means. . .
?" "It means me. I'm Silver Locks--it's her pet name for me. I called my aunts
the three bears once, when I was little, in fun, you know. And the others were
angry--but _she_ laughed and called me Silver Locks. And she's called it me ever
since. I never thought about her worrying. What am I to do? I must go back. I
thought it was too good to last, yesterday," she added, bitterly. He put the
admission away in a safe place, whence later he could take it out and caress it,
and said, "Of course you must go back if you want to. But don't do it without
thinking. We meant to talk over our plans yesterday, but somehow we didn't.
Let's do it to-day." "But I can't go to Warwick. I must go back to her--I must."
"If you do," he said, "you won't go back to just her--you'll go back to the
whole miserable muddle you've got away from. You'll go back to your other aunts
and to your father. Besides, how do you know who put that advertisement in?
Think carefully. Is the advertisement like her?" "It's like her to be anxious
and kind," said she. "I mean, is she the sort of woman to advertise that she's
ill? To advertise your pet name--and her own name--so that every one who knows
you both and sees the advertisement will know that you are being advertised for?
Is that like her?" He ended, astonished at his own penetration. "No," she said,
slowly, "it isn't. And it isn't like her to say she's ill. She never complains."
"She wouldn't use her illness as a lever to move events to her liking?" "Never!"
she said, almost indignantly. "Then I think that this advertisement is some one
else's. Where does she live." "Hyde Park Square." "Let us telegraph her, and not
go to Warwick." They stopped the taxi and composed a message. He despatched it.
Did you put advertisement in paper to-day? And are you       ill? I am quite
well and will write at once. Wire       reply to Silver Locks, General Post-
Office. Then they told the man to drive around Regent's Park, to pass the time
till there should be an answer. In the park the trees were already brown, and on
the pale, trampled grass long heaps of rags, like black grave-mounds, showed
where weary men who had tramped London all night, moved on by Law and Order,
inexorable in blue and silver, now at last had their sleep out, in broad
sunshine, under the eyes of the richest city in the world. Little children,
dirty and poor--their childhood triumphant over dirt and poverty--played happily
in the grass that was less grass than dust. "What a horrible place London is!"
she said. "Think of yesterday." That, too, he put away to be taken out and loved
later. "We won't stay in London," he said, "if the answer is what I think it
will be. We'll go out into the green country and decide what we're going to do."
"But if she _did_ put the advertisement in, it means that she's _very_ ill. And
then I must go to her." "But if she didn't--and I more and more think she didn't
--they may send some one to the General Post-Office post-haste--so it won't do
for you to go for the telegram. Do you know the Guildhall Library?" "No." "It's
a beautiful place--very quiet, very calm. And the officials are the best chaps
I've ever found in any library anywhere. We'll go there. You must want to look
up something. Let's see--the dates of the publication of Bacon's works. Write
your name in the book--any name you like, so long as it isn't your own; then ask
one of the officials to help you, and go and sit at one of the side tables--
they're like side chapels in a cathedral--and stay there till I come. You'll be
as safe and as secret as if you were in the Bastille. And I'll baffle pursuit
and come to you as soon as I can." "Yes," she said, meekly. "And don't worry,"
he urged. "The more I think of it, the more certain I am that it was not the
aunt you like who wrote that advertisement--"

He was right. The telegram with which, an hour later, he presented himself at
the Guildhall Library ran thus:

I did not write advertisement and I am not specially       ill, but I am very
anxious. Write at once. Aunt Loo       and Aunt Enid are both here. I think they
must have       inserted the advertisement. A. "Your Aunt Alice is a sportsman,"
he said, "to warn you like that." "I told you she was a darling," she answered--
and her whole face had lighted up with relief--"and you are the cleverest person
in the world! I should never have thought about its not being her doing, never
in a thousand years. You deserve a medal and a statue and a pension." "I don't
deserve more than I've got," said he, "nor half so much. The sun shines again."
She flashed a brilliant smile at him, and pushed a brown book along the table.
"I suppose we ought to look studious," she said, "or they'll turn us out. I am
so glad Aunt Alice isn't really worse. You don't know how I've felt while you've
been away. It seemed so horribly selfish--to have been so happy and all while
she was ill and worried. But, of course, you do know." "Let us go out," he said,
putting the books together. "Yes," she said, "I know all about Bacon. Not that
I'll ever want to know." "I'm not so sure," said he. "Did it ever occur to you
that perhaps the Baconians are right, and he was an intellectual giant, almost
like Plato and Aristotle rolled into one? We'll go to Stratford some day, and
look at Shakespeare's bust and see if we think he could have written 'The
Tempest.'" "You shouldn't judge people by their faces," she said. "Handsome is
as handsome does." "Oh, but you should," said he. "It's handsome does as
handsome is. I always go by appearances. Don't you? But of course, I know you
do--"

She opened one of the books and began to turn the pages. "Look what I found,"
she said, and all the time their voices had been lowered to the key of that
studious place. "Look, isn't it pretty? And do you see?--the e's are like the
Greek [Greek: th]. Can you read it?" He read:

"Fair Lucrece, kind Catherine, gentle Jane,      But Maria is the dearest name.
Robert Swinford, 1863." "Yes, that's what I make it. It doesn't rhyme, but I
expect Maria was very pleased. Do you think they were studying with a stern
tutor, and he wrote that and pushed it over to her when no one was looking? It's
an odd thing to have written in a Natural History book. There's something more
on another page--but it doesn't make sense:

"I am true rew Hebrew--CXIX--101." "I expect he was just trying a pen. Come, the
librarian has his scholarly eye on you." "I should like to look through all the
old books and find out all the names people have written and make stories about
them," she said, and he received the curious impression that she was talking
against time; there was about her a sort of hanging back from the needful
movement of departure. He picked the books up and carried them to the counter,
she following, and they walked in silence down the gallery hung with Wouvermans
and his everlasting gray horse. "Let's go into the Hall," he said. So they
turned under the arch and went into the beautiful great vaulted Guildhall, where
the giants Gog and Magog occupy the gallery, and little human people can sit
below on stone benches against the wall, and gaze on the monuments of the elder
and the younger Pitt, and talk at long leisure, undisturbed and undisturbing,
which is not the case in the Library, as Edward pointed out. "Now, then," he
began. "Yes," she said, hurriedly. "Something will have to be done about Aunt
Alice." "Yes. But what?" "I don't know." She turned and leaned one hand on the
stone seat so that she faced him. "You do believe that I don't regret coming
away? I think it would have been splendid to have gone on--like yesterday--but
you see it's impossible." "No, I don't," he said, stoutly. She made a movement
of impatience. "Oh yes, it is--quite," she said. "However rich you are, you
can't go on forever being blackmailed. Every one would know us, or else you'd
have to give up Charles, and even then I expect you'd be obliged to pay twenty
pounds every three-quarters of an hour. It can't be done. And, besides, we
should never know a moment's peace. Wherever we went we should imagine a
blackmailer behind every bush, and every one we spoke to might be a detective.
It's no use. I must go back. Do say you know I must." "I don't." "Well, say you
know I don't want to." "I can't say that . . . because, if you don't want to . .
. there's always the old alternative, you know." He was looking straight before
him at the majestic form of the Earl of Chatham. "What alternative?" "Marrying
me," he said, humbly. "Do. I don't believe that you'd regret it." "When I
marry," she said, strongly, "it won't be just because I want to get myself out
of a scrape." "I hoped there might be other considerations," he said, still
gazing at the marble. "You were happy yesterday. You said so." "You talk as
though marrying were just nothing--like choosing a partner for a dance. It's
like--like choosing what patterns you'd be tattooed with, if you were a savage.
It's for life." "And you can't like me well enough to choose me?" "I do like
you," she answered, with swift and most disheartening eagerness, "I do like you
awfully; better than any man I've ever known--oh, miles better--not that that's
saying much. But I don't know you well enough to marry you." "You don't think it
would turn out well?" She faltered a little. "It--it mightn't." "We could go on
being friends just as we are now," he urged. "It wouldn't be the same," she
said, "because there'd be no way out. If we found we didn't like each other, to-
morrow, or next month, or on Tuesday week, we could just say good-by and there'd
be no harm done. But if we were married--no--no--no!" "Do you feel as though you
would dislike me by Tuesday week?" "You know I don't," she said, impatiently,
"but I might. Or you might. One never knows. It isn't safe. It isn't wise. I may
be silly, but I'm not silly enough to marry for any reason but one." "And that?"
"That I couldn't bear to part with him, I suppose." "And you can bear to part
with me. There hasn't been much, has there? Just these three days, and all our
talks, and. . . ." He stopped. A tear had fallen on her lap. "I won't worry any
more," he said, in an altered voice. "You shall do just what you like. Shall I
get a taxi and take you straight to your aunt's? I will if you like. Come."
"There's no such hurry as all that," she said, "and it's no use being angry with
me because I won't jump over a wall without knowing what's on the other side.
No, why I should jump, either," she added, on the impulse of a sudden thought.
"You haven't told me that yet. What good would my getting married do to Aunt
Alice? I don't mean that I would, because you know I couldn't--even for her--but
what good would it do if I did?" "If we were married," he said, with a careful
absence of emotion, "we could send your aunt a copy of our marriage certificate
and a reference to my solicitor. She would then know that you had married a
respectable person with an assured income, instead of which you now appear to be
running about the country stealing ducks with Heaven knows who." "Yes," she
said, "I see that. Oh, I have a glorious idea! It will suit you and me and Aunt
Alice and make everybody happy!--like in books. Let's have a mock marriage, and
forge the certificate." "Have you ever seen a marriage certificate?" "No, of
course not." "Well, it would be as difficult to forge as a bank-note." "Why--
have you ever seen one?" she asked, and he hoped it was anxiety he read in her
tone. "Yes; I know a chap who's a registrar. I've witnessed a marriage before
now." "Then there's no need to forge," she said, light-heartedly. "Your friend
would give you one of the certificates, of course, if you asked him, and we
could fill it in and make Aunt Alice happy." He laughed, and the sound, echoing
in the gray emptiness of the Hall, drew on him the sour glance of a barrister,
wigged and gowned, hastening to the mayor's court. "He's wondering what you've
got to laugh at," she said, "and I don't wonder. _I_ don't know. Why shouldn't
we pretend to be married? I'm sure your friend would help us to. Oh, do!" she
said, clasping her hands with an exaggerated gesture that could not quite hide
the genuine appeal behind it. "Then we sha'n't have to part. I mean I sha'n't
have to go back to the aunts and all the worry that I thought I'd got away
from." "You're not really serious." "But I am. You will--oh, do say you will."
"No," he said, "it's impossible--Princess, don't ask if I can't." "Then it's all
over?" "I suppose so, if you insist on going back." "I don't insist. But I must
do something about Aunt Alice. She's always been a darling to me. I can't go
away and be happy and not care whether she's miserable or not. You'd hate me if
I could. I'll go back to-morrow or to-night. You said we should go into the
country and think things out. At least we can do that--we can have one more day.
Shall we?" Her sweet eyes tempted and implored. "What sort of day would it be,"
he said, "with the end of everything at the end of it? How could we be happy as
we were yesterday?--for you were happy, you owned it. How could we be happy
together when we knew we'd got to part in six hours--five hours--two hours--half
an hour? Besides, why should I give you the chance to grow any dearer? So as to
make it hurt more when you took yourself away from me? No--"

"I didn't know I was dear," she said, in a very small voice. Perhaps he did not
hear it, for he went on: "If the splendid adventure is to end like this, let it
end here--now. I've had the two days; you can't take those from me." "I don't
want to take anything from you, but--"

"Let's make an end of it, then," he said, ruthlessly, "since that's what you
choose. Good-by, Princess. Let's shake hands and part friends." He rose. "Let's
part friends," he repeated, and paused, remembering that you cannot go away and
leave a lady planted in the Guildhall. Yet he could not say, "Let us part
friends, and now I will call a cab." She was more expert. "At least," she put
it, "we needn't part here in the dark among the images of dead people. Come out
into the sunshine and look at the pretty pigeons." He was grateful to her. In
the Guildhall yard the cab would happen, if it happened at all, naturally and
without any effect of bathos. They stood watching the sleek birds strutting on
little red feet, and fluttering gray wings in the sunshine. She thought of the
wood-pigeon in the wood by the river, and the calm brightness of yesterday held
out beckoning hands to her. "I didn't think it was going to end like this," she
said. "Nor I," he answered, inexorably. "Are you quite sure it's impossible? The
mock marriage, I mean? In books it's always so frightfully easy, even when the
girl isn't helping?" "I'm afraid it's impossible," said he. "I wish it wasn't.
Look at that blue chap," he added, indicating a fat pigeon for the benefit of a
passing boy. "You must go back to your aunts. And I must go back to . . . oh,
well, there's nothing much for me to go back to." They were walking along King
Street now. "It does seem rather as though a sponge were going to pass over the
slate . . . and there wouldn't be much left," she said. He glanced at her,
suddenly alert. If she felt that . . . why, then. . . . He wished that the scene
had not been in one of the most frequented streets of the City of London. If it
had been in a drawing-room, for instance--her drawing-room--it would have been
possible to say the words of parting with something of dignity and finality. But
here, with--in the background and not to be evaded--that snorting taxicab over
whose closed door their farewells must be made. . . . But need it be across a
taxicab door? "Let us," he said, "take a cab. I will go with you as far as Hyde
Park Square." "Shall we have the hood down?" she asked, with intention. "It
doesn't matter now if any one does see us." But he pretended not to hear, and
the hood remained as it was. They were silent all the crowded way along
Cheapside, where there were blocks, as usual, and the drivers of lorries and
wagons were cheerfully profane. Silent, too, along Newgate Street and New Oxford
Street. The driver, being a wise man, turned up Bloomsbury Street to escape from
the blocks in Oxford Street; they passed the British Museum and, presently, the
Midlothian Hotel. And as they passed it, each thought of the breakfast there
only that morning, when she had poured the coffee of one from whom she had then
had no mind to part. "Oh, why are we doing it?" She spoke suddenly, and her
speech had the effect of a cry. "We didn't mean to say good-by, and now we're
going to. Don't let's." "But your aunt," he said, feeling as foolish as any
young man need wish. "If you don't go back to her now you'll want to to-morrow--
and I can't. . . . I told you why I want to part now, if we are to part. Now,
before it gets any worse." "We shall be at Hyde Park Square in a minute," she
said, desperately. "Yes," he said, "it's nearly over. What number is it? I must
tell the man." "Tell him to turn around and go somewhere else--into the country;
we said we would, you know. I'm not going back to Hyde Park Square. Tell him. .
. ." "Princess," he said, "I can't bear it. Let him go on." "But I'm not asking
you to bear anything. Don't you understand?" "Not. . . ?" "Yes, I will; if
you'll ask me." "You'll marry me?" "Yes," she said, "rather than have everything
end in absolute silliness, like this." He looked at her, at her clasped hands
and the frown of her great resolve. He perceived that he was worth something to
her--that she was prepared to pay a price--the price he set--rather than lose
him altogether. Her eyes met his with a mingling of courage and desperation, as
of one who has chosen a difficult and dangerous path, one who makes a great
sacrifice, leads a forlorn hope. And his eyes dwelt for a moment on hers,
appreciatively, thoughtfully. And in that moment his resolve was taken. "No," he
said, "you didn't want to jump the wall without knowing what it would be like on
the other side. I won't have an unwilling wife. On the other hand, I won't lose
you now, Princess, for a thousand fathers and ten thousand aunts. Make up your
mind to the mock marriage, and that shall be the way out." "But I thought you
said it was impossible." "So it was. But it isn't now. I've been thinking." She
leaned back, turned toward him from the corner, and faced him with fearless
eyes. "What a nightmare of a day it's been," she said. "Aren't you glad we're
awake again? When can I send the certificate?" she asked, eager and alert. "At
the earliest possible moment," said he. "I must see my friend about it at once.
Would you mind waiting for me--say in St. Paul's? And then we'll end our day in
the country, after all." "You are good," she said, and laid her hand for a
fleeting instant on his arm. "I do think it's good of you to give way about the
mock marriage. You know I had really set my heart on it. Now everything will be
plain sailing, won't it? And we'll go to Warwick the minute we're mock-married,
because my putting my finger on it and Kenilworth ought to count, oughtn't it?"
"It shall," he said, gravely. XII

WESTMINSTER

A WEDDING-DAY--even a real wedding-day--leaves at best but a vague and
incoherent memory. To the bridegroom it is a confused whirling recollection of
white satin and tears and smiles and flowers and music--or perhaps a dingy room
with a long table and an uninterested registrar at the end of it. Edward
Basingstoke thought with regret of the flowers and the white satin. If he had
accepted her submission, had consented to the real marriage, there should have
been white roses by the hundred, and the softest lace and silk to set off her
beauty. As it was--

"We shall have to go through some sort of form," he told her, "because of the
clerks. If my friend were just to tear out a certificate and give it to us the
people in the office. . . . You understand." "Quite," she said. "It'll be rather
like a very dingy pretense at a marriage. You won't mind that?" "Of course not.
Why should I?" "Then, if you're sure you really want to go through with it . . .
shall we go to my friend's now, and get it over?" "He doesn't mind?" "Not a
bit." "He must be a very accommodating friend." "He is," said Edward. "Where did
you leave the luggage?" she asked, suddenly. They were walking along the
Embankment. "At Charing Cross." "Well, I'm going to get it. And I shall go to
the Charing Cross Hotel with it, and you can meet me in three hours." "But
that'll only just give us time," he said. "Why not come with me now?" "Because,"
she said, firmly, "I won't play at mock marriages unless I like, and I won't
play at all unless you let me do as I like first." "Won't you tell me why?"
"I'll tell you when I meet you again." "Where?" he asked. And she stopped at the
statue of Forster in the Embankment Gardens, and answered:

"Here." Then she smiled at him so kindly that he asked no more questions, but
just said:

"In three hours, then," and they walked on together to Charing Cross. And after
three hours, in which he had time to be at least six different Edwards, he met,
by the statue of the estimable Mr. Forster, a lady all in fine white linen,
wearing a white hat with a wreath of white roses around it, and long white
gloves, and little white shoes. And she had a white lace scarf and a live white
rose at her waist. "I thought I'd better dress the part," she said, a little
nervously, "for the sake of the clerks, you know." "How beautiful you are," he
said, becoming yet another kind of Edward at the sight of her, and looking at
her as she stood in the afternoon sunshine. "Why didn't you tell me before how
beautiful you were?" "I. . . . How silly you are," was all she found to say. "I
wish, though," he said, as they walked together along the gravel of the garden,
"that you'd done it for me, and not for those clerks, confound them!" "I didn't
really do it for them," she said. "Oh no--and not for you, either. I did it for
myself. I couldn't even pretend to be married in anything but white. It would be
so unlucky." All that he remembered well. And what came afterward--the dingy
house with the grimy door-step, and the area where dust and torn paper lay, the
bare room, the few words that were a mockery of what a marriage service should
be, the policeman who met them as they went in, the charwoman who followed them
as they went out, the man at the end of the long, leather-covered table--
Edward's old acquaintance, but that seemed negligible--who who wished them joy
with, as it were, his tongue in his cheek. And there was signing of names and
dabbing of them with a little oblong of pink blotting-paper crisscrossed with
the ghosts of the names of other brides and bridegrooms--real ones, these--and
then they were walking down the sordid street, she rather pale and looking
straight before her, and in her white-gloved hand the prize of the expedition,
the marriage certificate, to gain which the mock marriage had been undertaken.
And suddenly the romantic exaltation of the day yielded to deepest depression,
and Edward Basingstoke, earnestly and from the heart, wished the day's work
undone. It was all very well to talk about mock marriages, but he knew well
enough that his honor was as deeply engaged as though he had been well and truly
married in Westminster Abbey by His Grace of York assisted by His Grace of
Canterbury. Freedom was over, independence was over, and all his life lay at the
mercy of a girl--the girl who, a week ago, had no existence for him. The whole
adventure, from his first sight of her among dewy grass and trees, had been like
a fairy-tale, like a romance of old chivalry. He had played his part handsomely,
but with the underlying consciousness that it was a part--a part sympathetic to
his inclinations, but a part, none the less. The whole thing had been veiled in
the mists of poetry, illuminated by the glow of adventure. And now it seemed as
though he had thoughtlessly plucked the flower of romance which, with patience
and careful tending, would have turned to the fruit of happiness. He had plucked
the flower, and all he had gained was the power to keep a beautiful stranger
with him--on false pretenses. He wished that she, at least, had not so gaily
entered on the path of deception. Never a scruple had disturbed her--the idea of
deceiving an aunt who loved her had been less to her than--than what? Less, at
least, than the pain of losing him forever, he reminded himself. He tried to be
just--to be generous. But at the back of his mind, and not so very far back,
either, Iago's words echoed, "She did deceive her father, and may thee." His
part of the deception now seemed to him the blackest deed of his life, and he
could not undo it. It was impossible to turn to this white shape, moving so
quietly beside him, with:

"Let's burn the certificate. Deceit is dishonorable." If she did not think so .
. . well, women's code of honor was different from men's. And she _had_ been
willing to marry him in earnest, with no deceptions or reservations. This mock
business had been, in the end, his doing, not hers. And now they had gone
through with it, and here he was walking beside her, silent, like a resentful
accomplice. They had walked the street's length, its whole dingy length, in
silence. The light of life had, once more, for Mr. Basingstoke, absolutely gone
out. They turned the corner, and still he could find nothing to say; nor, it
appeared, could she. The hand with the paper hung loosely. The other hand was
busy at her belt--and now the white rose fell on the dusty pavement, between a
banana-skin and a bit of torn printed paper. He stooped, automatically, to pick
up the rose. "Don't," she said. "It's faded." It so manifestly wasn't that he
looked at her, and on the instant the light of life began to be again visible to
him, very faint and far, like the pin-point of daylight at the end of a long
tunnel, but still visible. For he now perceived that for her, too, the light had
gone out--blown out, most likely, by the same breath of remorse. Sublime egoist!
He was to have the monopoly of fine sentiments and regretful indecisions, was
he? Not a thought for her, and what she must have been feeling. But perhaps what
she had felt had not been that at all; yet something she had felt, something not
happy--something that led to the throwing away of white roses. "I can't let it
lie there," he said, holding it in his hand. "I should like to think," he added,
madly trying to find some words to break the spell that, he now felt, held them
both--"I should like to think it would never fade." She smiled at that--a small
and pitiful smile. "Cheer up," she said; "lots of people have got _really_
married and then parted, as they say, at the church door. This is a perfect spot
for a parting," she added, a little wildly, waving toward a corn-chandler's and
a tobacconist's; "or, if your chivalry won't let you desert me in this desolate
neighborhood . . . let me tell you something, something to remember; you'll find
it wonderfully soothing and helpful. From this moment henceforth, forever, every
place in the world where we are will be the best place for parting--if we want
to part. Isn't that almost as good as the freedom you're crying your eyes out
for?" "I'm not," he said, absurdly; but she went on. "Do you think I don't
understand? Do you think I don't know how you feel twenty times more bound to me
than if we were really married? Perhaps it's only because everything's so new
and nasty. Perhaps you won't feel like that when you get used to things. But if
you do--if you don't get over it then--it's all been for nothing, and we might
as well have parted among the pigeons." She walked faster and faster. "What we
have to remember--oh yes, it's for me as well as you--what we've got to remember
is that we're to be perfectly free. We needn't stay with each other an instant
after we wish not to stay. Doesn't that help?" "You're a witch," he said,
keeping pace with her quickened steps, "but you don't know everything. And
you're tired and--"

"I know quite enough," she said. Never had he felt more helpless. Their aimless
walking was leading them into narrower and poorer streets where her bridal
whiteness caught the eye and turned the head of every passer-by. The pavements
were choked with slow passengers and playing children, small, dirty, pale, with
the anxious expression of little old men and women. "Do you like deer?" he
asked, suddenly. "Deer?" "Yes--fawns, does, stags, antlers?" "Of course I do."
"Then let's go to Richmond Park. Let's get out of this." The points of her white
shoes showed like stars among the filth of the pavement, her clean, clear beauty
shining against the drab and dirty houses like a lily against a dust-heap. He
felt a surge of impotent fury that such a background should be possible. The
children, tired and pale with the summer heat that had been so glad and gay and
shining to him and to her yesterday on the quiet river, looked like some sort of
living fungus--and their clothes looked like decaying vegetables. If Mr.
Basingstoke had been alone he would have solaced himself by going to the nearest
baker's and buying buns for every child in sight. But somehow it is very
difficult to do that sort of thing unless you are alone or have a companion who
trusts you and whom you trust beyond the limit of life's cheaper confidences. He
felt that self-exculpatory eagerness to give which certain natures experience in
the presence of sufferings which they do not share. Also he felt--and hated
himself for feeling--a fear lest, if he should act naturally, she might think he
wanted to "show off." To show off what, in the name of all that was pretentious
and insincere? Had civilization come to this, that a man was "showing off" who
took want as he found it and changed it, without its costing him the least
little loss or self-denial, into a radiant, if momentary, satisfaction? And yet,
somehow, he found he could not say, "Let's go and raid the bun-shop for these
kiddies." "We're to pass our lives together, and I can't say a simple thing like
that," he thought, with curious bitterness--but, indeed, all his thoughts were
confused and bitter just then. What a travesty of a wedding-day! He would have
liked his wedding-feast to be in the big barn of the bride's father, and every
neighbor, rich and poor, to have drunk their health in home-brewed ale of the
best, and the tables cleared away and a jolly dance to follow, and when the fun
was at its merriest he and she would have slipped out and ridden home to his own
house on the white horse--Dobbin, his name--she on the pillion behind him, her
arm soft about his waist, and the good horse so sure of foot that he never
stumbled, however often his master turned his face back to the dear face over
his shoulder. Instead of which she had consented to a mock marriage in a
registry-office--and this. "Let's get out of this," he repeated. "We are getting
out of it," she said, and, abruptly, "Don't people who have real weddings pay
the ringers and the beadle and give a feast to the villagers--open house, and
all that?" He thrilled to the magic of that apt capping of his thought. "Yes,"
he said, and, not knowing why, hung on her next words. "Couldn't we?" she said,
and her eyes wandered to the rose he still carried. "Of course it was only
pretending, but we might pretend a little longer. Couldn't we give our wedding-
feast here? The guests are all ready," she added, and her voice trembled a
little. How seldom can man follow his desire. Edward would have liked to fall on
his knees among the cabbage-stalks and the drifting dust and straw and paper--to
kneel before her and kiss her feet. For, in that moment, and for the first time,
he worshiped her. The imbecile irrationality of this will not have escaped you.
He worshiped her for the very thought, the very impulse of simple loving-
kindness which he had been ashamed to let her know as his own. She kindled to
the lighting of his face. "I knew you would," she said. "You are a dear." The
same irrational admiration shone in her eyes. "Sweets? Pounds and pounds of?"
"Buns," he answered, "buns and rock-cakes. Sweets afterward, if you like," and
enthusiastically led the way to the nearest baker's. Now this is difficult to
believe and quite impossible to explain, but it is true. No human ear but their
own had heard this interchange. "Sweets," "buns," and "rock-cakes," those words
of power had, in fact, been spoken in the softest whisper, but from the moment
of their being spoken a sort of wireless telegraphy ran down that mean street
from end to end, and by the time they reached the baker's they had a ragged
following of some fifty children, while from court and alley and narrow side-
street came ever more and more children, ragged children, stuffily dressed
children, children carrying bags, children carrying parcels, children carrying
babies and jugs and jars and bundles. The crowd of children pressed around the
baker's door, and noses flattened like the suckers of the octopus in aquariums
marked a long line across the window a little above the level of the bun-trays.
I do not pretend to explain how this happened. Good news proverbially travels
fast. It also travels by ways past finding out. She began to take the buns by
twos and threes from the tray in the window, and held them out. A forest of lean
arms reached up and a shrill chorus of, "Me, teacher! Me!" varied by, "She's 'ad
one--me next, teacher! Let the little boy 'ave one, lady; 'e 'ain't 'ad nuffin."
The woman of the shop rolled forward. She was as perfectly spherical as is
possible to the human form. "Treat, sir?" she said, in a thick, rich, husky
voice (like cake, as Edward said later). They owned her guess correct. "How
much'll you go to?" "A bun apiece," said Edward. "For the whole street? Why,
there's hundreds!" "The more the merrier," said Mr. Basingstoke. "Do 'e mean
it?" the woman asked, turning to the bun-giver. "Yes, oh yes." The girl turned
from the door to lean over the smooth deal counter. "It's our wedding-day," she
whispered, "and we didn't give any wedding-breakfast, so we thought we'd give
one now." Edward had turned to the door and was making a speech. "You shall all
have a bun," he said, "to eat the lady's health in. But it's one at a time. Now
you just hold on a minute and don't be impatient." "Bless your good 'art, my
dear," the globular lady was wheezing into the ear of the mock bride. "Married
to-day, was you? I'm sure you look it, both of you--every inch you do. But we
'aven't got the stuff in the place for 'arf that lot." "How soon could you get
it?" "I could send a couple of the men out. Do it in ten minutes--or less, if
Prickets around the corner's not sold out." "How much will it cost--something
for each of them--cake if not buns--sweets if not cake--?" The round woman made
a swift mental calculation and announced the result. She who looked so much like
a bride turned to him who seemed her bridegroom. "Give me some money, please,
will you?" Money changed hands, and changed again. "Now, lookee 'ere," said the
round one, "you let me manage this 'ere for you. If you don't you'll be giving
three times over to the pushing ones, and the quiet ones won't get nothing but
kicked shins and elbows in the pit of stomachs. I know every man jack of them
'cept the hinfans in arms, and even them I knows the ones as is carrying of
them. Wait till I send the chaps off for the rest of the stuff." The crowd
outside surged excitedly, and the frail arms still waved to the tune of, "Me
next, teacher!" All along the street the faces of the houses changed features as
slatternly women and shirt-sleeved men leaned out of the windows to watch and
wonder. When the baker's wife rolled back into the shop she found the girl
silent, with lips that trembled. "There, don't you upset yourself, my pretty,"
said the round one. "You'll like to give it to 'em with your own hands, I lay.
Take and begin on what's before you--let 'em come in one door and out of the
other, and I'll see as they don't come twice." "You do it," said the girl, and
she spoke to Edward over her shoulder. "I didn't think it would be like this.
Tell them we've got to go, but Mrs. Peacock will give them each a bun." "How
clever of her to have noticed the name," he thought; but he said, "Are you sure
you don't want to have the pleasure of seeing their pleasure?" "No--no," she
said. "Let's get away. I can't bear it. Mrs. Peacock will see to it for us--
won't you?" "That I will, lovey, and keep the change for you against you call
again. You can trust me." "We don't want any change," she said. "Spend it all on
buns, or cake, or anything you like. It _is_ good of you. Oh, good-by, and thank
you--so much. I didn't think it would be like this," she said, and gave Mrs.
Peacock both hands, while Edward explained to the crowd outside. A wail of
disappointment went up, but stayed itself as Mrs. Peacock rushed to the door.
"It's all true," she said, in that thick, rich, caky voice; "every good little
boy and gell's to have a bun. Now then," she added, in a perfect blaze of
tactlessness, "three cheers for the bride and bridegroom, and many happy
returns." The two had to stand side by side and hear those shrill, thin cheers,
strengthened by the voices of fathers and mothers at the windows. He had to wave
his hat to the crowd and to be waved at in return from every window in the
street--even those too far away for their occupants to have any certain idea why
they cheered and waved. She had to bow and kiss her hand to the children and to
bow and smile to the window-dwellers. Next moment she was out of the shop and
running like a deer along a side-street, he following. They took hands and ran;
and by luck their street brought them to a road where trams were, and escape.
They rode on the top of the tram, and she held his hand all the way to Charing
Cross. I cannot explain this. Neither of them spoke a word. Further, it was
almost without a word that they got themselves to Richmond. It was not till they
had been for many minutes in the deep quiet of the bracken and green leafage
that she spoke, with a little laugh that had more than laughter in it. "We might
almost as well," she said, "have been married in church." XIII

WARWICK

ONLY those who have gone through the ceremony of a mock marriage, from the
gentlest motives, and have soothed the solicitude of a beloved and invalid aunt
by the gift of the marriage certificate thus obtained, can have any idea of the
minor difficulties which beset the path of the really unselfish. Had the
ceremony been one in which either party was deceived as to its real nature the
sequent embarrassments would have been far less. The first and greatest was the
question of names. The persons mentioned in the certificate now bedewed by the
joyful tears of the invalid aunt, and scorched by the fierce fires of a first-
class family row, were committed, so far as the family and the world knew, to a
wedding-journey. That is to say, Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke, after posting the
certificate, were to proceed on their honeymoon. But cold mock marriages claim
no honeymoon. So far the only explanation of the relations of the now mockly
married had been made to Mr. Schultz across the peaches in the sunned and
shadowy arbor at Tunbridge Wells. To Mr. Schultz the two were brother and
sister. To travel as Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke presented difficulties almost
insurmountable--to pursue their wanderings as Mr. and Miss Basingstoke involved
bother about letters and the constant risk of explanations to any of the friends
and relations of either across whose path fate might be spiteful enough to drive
them. Because, of course, your friends and relations know how many brothers and
sisters you have and what they look like, and those sort of people never forget.
You could never persuade them that the young man with whom you were traveling
was a brother whom they had overlooked or forgotten. A long silence in the train
that meant to go to Warwick was spent by each in the same tangle of puzzle and
conjecture. They had the carriage to themselves. Her eyes were on the green
changing picture framed by the window; his eyes noted the firm, pretty line of
her chin, the way her hair grew, the delicate charm of the pale roses under the
curve of her hat-brim--the proud carriage of head and neck; he liked the way she
held herself, the way her hands lay in her lap, the self-possession and self-
respect that showed in every line of that gracious figure. The four walls of the
carriage seemed to shut them in with a new and deeper intimacy than yesterday's.
He would have liked to hold her hand as he had held it on the way to Richmond--
to have her shoulder lightly touching his and to sit by her and watch the
changing of that green picture from which she never turned her eyes. And all the
time the two alternatives seesawed at the back of his mind: "Mr. and Mrs. or Mr.
and Miss?" Her eyes suddenly left the picture and met his. In that one glance
she knew what sort of thoughts had been his, and knew also quite surely and
unmistakably, as women do know such things, that the relations between them had
been changed by that mock marriage--that now it would not be he who would make
the advances. That he was hers for the asking, she knew, but she also knew that
there would have to be asking, and that asking hers. She knew then, as well as
she knew it later, that that act had set a barrier between them and that his
would never be the hand to break it down; a barrier strong as iron, behind which
she could, if she would, remain alone forever--and yet a barrier which, if she
chose that it should be so, her choice could break at a touch, as bubbles are
broken. She felt as perhaps a queen in old romance might have felt traveling
through the world served only by a faithful knight. That they had held each
other's hand on their wedding-day had been an accident. This would never happen
again--unless she made it happen. "We must have our letters sent to the post-
offices where we go," she said, suddenly, turning to the problem at the back of
her mind. "Then the aunts can call me 'Mrs.' when they write to me. I suppose
they'll want to _call_ me that?" "Mrs. Basingstoke," he said, slowly. "Yes, it
seems likely that they _will_ want to." "Then," she went on, "we needn't pretend
to the hotel people that we're married. They'd be sure to find out we weren't,
or something, and we should always be trembling on the perilous edge of
detection. I couldn't bear to be always wondering whether the landlord had found
us out." "It would be intolerable," he agreed, deeply conscious of the admirable
way in which she grasped this delicate nettle. "Whereas. . . ." "Whereas if
we're Mr. and Miss Basingstoke at our hotels, and Mr. and Mrs. at the post-
office, it's all as simple as the Hebrew alphabet." "The Hebrew. . . ?" "Well,
it's not quite as simple as A B C, but very nearly. So that's settled." "What,"
he asked, hastily, anxious to show his sense of a difficulty avoided, a subject
dismissed--"what do you think about when you look out of the windows in trains?
Or don't you think at all--just let the country flow through your soul as though
it were music?" "One does that when one's _in_ it," she answered, "in woods and
meadows and in those deep lanes where you see nothing but the hedges and the
cart-tracks--and on the downs--yes. But when you look out at the country it's
different, isn't it? One looks at the churches and thinks about all the people
who were christened and married and buried there, and then you look at the
houses they lived in--the old farm-houses more than anything. Do you know, all
my life I've wished I'd been born a farmer's daughter. All the little things of
life in those thatched homesteads are beautiful to me. The smell of the wood
smoke, and the way all your life is next door to out-of-doors--always having to
go out and feed the calves or the pigs or the fowls, and always little young
things, the goslings and the ducklings and the chicks--you know how soft and
pretty they are. And all these lovely little live things dependent on you. And
the men as well--they come home tired from their work and you have their meals
all ready--the bread you've baked yourself, and the pasties you've made--
perhaps, even, you brew the beer and salt the pork--and they come in, your
husband and your father and your brothers, and they think what a good
housekeeper you are, and love you for it. Or if you're a man yourself, all your
work's out of doors with the nice, clean earth and making things grow, and
seeing the glorious seasons go round and round like a splendid kaleidoscope; and
in the winter coming home through the dusk and seeing the dancing light of your
own hearth-fire showing through the windows, till you go into the warm, cozy
place, and then the red curtains are drawn and the door is shut, and you're safe
inside--at home." He felt in every word a new intimacy, a new confidence. For
the first time she was speaking to him from the heart without afterthought and
without reservations. And he knew why. He knew that the queen, confident and
confiding, spoke to the faithful knight. And the matter of her speech no less
than its manner enchanted him so that he could think of nothing better to say
than:

"Go on--tell me some more." "There isn't any more, only I think that must have
been the life I lived in my last incarnation, because a little house in the
country--any little house, even an old turnpike cottage--always seems to call
out to me, 'Here I am! Come home! What a long time you've been away!'" "And
yet," he said, and felt, as he said it, how stupid he was being--"and yet you
love traveling and adventure--seeing the world and the wonders of the world."
"Ah!" she said, "that's my new incarnation. But what the old one loved goes
deeper than that. I love adventure and new bits of the world as I love
strawberries and ice-cream, and waltzing and Chopin, but the little house in the
green country is like the daily bread of the heart." "I understand you," he
said, slowly. "I understand you in the only possible way. I mean that's the way
I feel about it, too. If you were really my sister, what a united family the
last of the Basingstokes would be." "Do you really feel the same about it--you,
too?" she asked. "Oh, what a pity I wasn't born Basingstoke, and we would have
lived on our own farm and been happy all our lives." He would not say what he
might have said, and her heart praised him for not saying it. And so at last
they came to Warwick, and Charles had bounded from the dog-box all pink tongue
and white teeth and strenuous white-covered muscles, and knocked down a little
boy in a blue jersey, who had to be consoled by chocolate which came out of the
machine like the god in the Latin tag. And then all the luggage was retrieved--
there was getting to be a most respectable amount of it, as she pointed out--and
it and they and Charles got into a fly (for there are still places where an open
carriage bears that ironic name) and drove through the afternoon sunshine to the
Warwick Arms. But when they were asked to write their names in the visitors'
book, each naturally signed a Christian name, and the management, putting two
and two together, deduced Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke, and entered this result in
more intimate books, living in retirement in the glass case which preserves the
young lady who knows all about which rooms you can have. The chambermaid and the
boots agreed that Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke were a handsome couple. Also, when a
new-comer, signing his name, asked a question about the signatures just above
his, "Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke," was the answer he got. Now all this time, for
all her frankness, she had been concealing something from him. You must know
that the wedding-dinner, if a mock marriage can be said to involve a wedding-
dinner, had been at the Star and Garter, and after the wooded slopes and the
shining spaces of the river her London hotel had seemed but a dull and dusty
resting-place. And it was she who had met him when he called to take her out to
breakfast with a petition for more river. So they had taken more river, in the
shape of a Sunday at Coohmah, where the beautiful woods lean down to the water,
and the many boats keep to the stream and the few creep into backwaters whither
the swans follow you, and eat all the lunch if you will only give them half a
chance. It was a delightful day, full of incident and charm. The cool, gleaming
river, the self-possessed gray poplars, the generous, green-spreading beeches,
the lovelorn willows trailing their tresses in the stream, the reeds and the
rushes, the quiet, emphasized by the knowledge that but for the supremest luck
they might have been two in a very large and noisy party, such as that on the
steam-launch which thrust its nose into their backwater and had to back out with
fussings and snortings, like a terrier out of a rabbit-hole. The dappled shadows
on the spread carpet of lily-leaves, the green gleams in the deep darkness of
the woods, the slow, dripping veil of dusk through which they rowed slowly back
to the inn--even being late for the train and having to run for it--all, as he
said, when they had caught the train and were crammed into a first-class
carriage with three boating-men, a painted lady, an aged beau, and a gentleman
almost of color, from Brazil--all had been very good. But he did not know all.
There had been a moment, while he had gone in to the bar of the inn to settle
for the boat--a moment in which she waited in the little grassy garden that
shelves down to the river's edge--and in that moment a boat slid up to the
landing-stage. The first man to get out of it was nobody, and didn't matter. The
second was Mr. Schultz. As it happened, her face was lighted by a yellow beam
from one of the inn windows, and as he landed the beam from the other window
fell across his face, so that they saw and recognized each other in a blaze of
light that might have been arranged for no other purpose. He raised his cap and
she saw that he meant to speak, but one of his companions thrust the painter
into his hand at exactly the nick of time. He was held there, for the moment.
She had the sense to walk slowly into the inn, and Mr. Schultz might well have
thought that she was staying there. She meant him to think so. Anyhow, he did
not cast the painter from him, as he might have done, and hurry after her.
"Later on will do," was what his attitude and his look expressed. The moment she
was out of his sight she quickened her pace, found Mr. Edward Basingstoke in the
bar putting his change in his pocket, and, the moment the two were outside the
street door, said, just, "We must run for it." This was, providentially, true.
And they ran for it, just catching it, without a breath to spare. Why did she
not tell him that she had seen Schultz, that stout squire of the South Coast
road? For one thing, Mr. Schultz seemed long ago and irrelevant. For another, he
was discordant, and his very name, spoken, would break the spell of a very
charming quiet which had infolded her and Edward all day long. Then there was
the crowded carriage with the Brazilian gentleman, all observant, black, beady
eye, and long yellow ear. And then, anyhow, what was the good of raking up Mr.
Schultz, whom Edward had never really liked. So she did not tell him. Nor, for
much the same reason, did he tell her that one of that shouting party who
climbed into the train after it had actually started, and whom he saw as he
leaned out of the window to buy chocolate from an accidental boy, was very like
that chap Schultz--as like, in fact, as two peas. And the next day she packed up
everything, and he packed up a good deal, and they started for Warwick; arrived
there, had luncheon, and became immediately a pair of ardent sight-seers. The
guide-book in the coffee-room assured them that "no visitor to Warwick with any
sense of propriety thinks of remaining long without paying his respects to that
historic and majestic pile known as Warwick Castle," and this, they agreed,
settled the question. So they went and saw Warwick Castle, with its great gray
towers and its high gray walls, its green turf, and old, old trees. They saw the
banqueting-hall that was burned down, and Guy's punch-bowl that holds Heaven
knows how many gallons. "It makes you thirsty to look at it," said Edward. Also
they saw the Portland vase which lives in a glass house all by itself, and the
bed where Queen Anne slept, and the cedar drawing-room and the red drawing-room
and the golden drawing-room, and all the other rooms which are "shown to
visitors," and longed lawlessly to see the rooms that are not so shown. "There
must be _some_ comfortable rooms in the house," she said. "Even lords and ladies
and Miss O'Gradys couldn't really live in these museums." And, indeed, all the
rooms they saw were much too full of things curious, precious, beautiful, and
ugly; but mostly large and all costly. "It must be pretty awful to be as rich as
all this," said Edward, as they came out of the castle gate. "Would it be? The
guide-books say Lady Warwick says she strives to fulfil, imperfectly, it may be,
the duties of her stewardship and the privileges of her heritage. It would be
interesting, don't you think, to find out just exactly what those were?" "If I
had a castle," said he, "there shouldn't be a knickknack in it, nor a scrap of
furniture later than seventeen hundred." "I sometimes wonder whether it's fair,"
she said, "the way we collect old things. Have you noticed that poor people's
houses haven't a decent bit of furniture in them? When my mother was little the
cottages used to have old bureaus and tables and chests that had come down from
father to son and from mother to daughter." "It's true," said he, "and the worst
of it is that we've not only taken away their furniture, but we've taken away
their taste for it. They prefer plush and machine-made walnut to the old oak and
elm and beech and apple-wood. It would be no good to give them back their old
furnishing unless we could give them back their love of it. And that we can't
do." "But if we bought modern things?" "Even then they wouldn't care for the old
ones. And the only beautiful modern things we have are imitations of the old
ones. We've lost the art of furniture-making, and the art of architecture, and
we're losing even the art of life. It's getting to be machine-made, like our
chair-legs and our stone facings. I sometimes wonder whether we are really on
the down-grade--and whether the grade is so steep that we sha'n't be able to
stop--and go on till there's no life possible except the life that's represented
by the plush and walnut at one end and motors and the Ritz at the other." "Can't
we resist? all the people who still care for beautiful things?" "We can collect
them; it's not taking them from the poor now--it's taking them from the dealers
who have cleared out the farms and cottages and little houses. I suppose one
might make a nest, and live in it, but that wouldn't change things or stop the
uglification of everything. You can't make people live beautifully by act of
Parliament. The impulse to make and own beautiful things has to come from within
--and it seems as though it were dead--killed by machinery and _laissez-faire_
and the gospel of individualism, and I'm sorry to talk like a Fabian tract, but
there it is. Forgive me, and let's go down to Guy's Cliff and see the Saxon Mill
and the perfect beauty of mixed architecture that wasn't trying to imitate
anything." "Yes, but go on with the tract." "There isn't any more, except that
what's so difficult is to know how to live without hurting some one else. This
is my wander year. I'm spending my money just now for fun and to have a good
time. I feel I deserve a holiday and I'm taking one. But what's one to do with
one's life? How can one use one's money so as to do no harm?" "If you invest it
in mines or factories or railways, doesn't that employ people and make trade
better?" she asked, diffidently. "I'm sure I've heard people say so." "Yes," he
said, grimly, "so have I. And, of course, it's true. You launch your money into
this horrible welter of hard work and chancy wages, and it helps to keep some
people in motors and fur coats and champagne and diamonds, and it helps, too, to
keep others on the perilous edge of despair, to keep them alive in a world where
they're never sure of next week's meals, never free from worry from the cradle
to the grave, with no poetry in their lives but love, and no magic but drink."
"But what are we to do?" she asked, and they paused a moment on the bridge to
look to the splendid mass of Warwick Castle along the river where the swans
float and the weeping willows trail their hair in the water. "I wish I knew," he
said. "There must be some way to live without having any part in the muddle."
"We'll find a way," said she. And his heart leaped, for he knew that this was
the most intimate thing she had ever said to him. XIV

STRATFORD-ON-AVON

WHEN you have seen Warwick Castle and Guy's Cliff and the Saxon Mill--which is
so old that it must be soothing to the most tempestuous temperament--and you
hasten back to your hotel and get your dog--if that dog be Charles--on purpose
to expose him to its calm influences, you go to St. Mary's Church, which is, the
guide-book tells you, "one of the most remarkable specimens of ecclesiastical
architecture extant," and you see the Norman Crypt, and the clumsy sarcophagus
of Fulke Greville, Lord Brooke, who wrote his own epitaph, and you read how he
was "servant to Queen Elizabeth, Canceller to King James, and friend to Sir
Philip Sidney." Also you see the Beauchamp Chapel, and love it and linger in it,
admiring the tombs of the earls of Warwick and other grown-ups, and feeling,
even after all these years, a thrill of sadness at the sight of the little
effigy of the child whose brocaded gown the marble so wonderfully produces and
whose little years knock at your heart for pity. "Here resteth," says the
monument, "the body of the noble Impe Robert of Dudley, . . . a child of greate
parentage, but of farre greater hope and towardness, taken from this transitory
unto the everlasting life in his tender age, . . . on Sunday the 19 of July, in
the yeare of our Lorde God 1584." You see, also, the Warwick pew, and wish you
could have worshiped there. Then you go to Leicester's Hospital, half timbered
and beautiful, with the row of whispering limes on its terraced front, where the
"brethren" still wear the "gown of blew stuff with the badge of the bear and
ragged staff on the left sleeve." And the badges are still those provided by
Lord Leicester in 1571. You are sorry that the old banqueting-hall should now be
used for the coal-cellar and the laundry of the brethren, and still more sorry
that the minstrels' gallery should have been cut off to enlarge the drawing-room
of the Master's house. If you are of a rude and democratic nature you may
possibly comment on this in audible voices beneath the Master's windows, which,
I am sorry to say, was what Mr. Basingstoke and his companion did. You will see
the Sidney porcupine on the wall of the quadrangle, some gilded quills missing,
and no wonder, after all these years. You will see--and perhaps neglect to
reverence, as they did--the great chair once occupied by that insufferable
monarch and prig, James the First. You will visit the Brethren's Chapel, which
seems to be scented by all the old clothes ever worn by any of the old brethren,
and you will come out again into the street, and, as you cross the threshold, it
will be like stepping across three hundred years, and you will say so. Then you
will probably say, "What about Stratford for this afternoon?" At least, that is
what Edward said. And as he said it he was aware of a figure in black which
said,

"Can you tell me the way to Droitwich?" It was a woman, spare and pale, in black
that was green, but brushed to threadbareness. "Do you want to walk?" Edward
asked. "I've got to, sir," she said. "Do you mind," he asked, "telling me why
you want to go?" "I've got relations there, sir," said the woman in black,
raising to his the plaintive blue eyes of a child set in a face that fifty years
and more had wrinkled like a February apple. "My husband's relations, that is.
They might do something to help me. I might be able to be of use to them, just
to work out my keep. It isn't much I require. But I couldn't--"

She stopped, and Edward Basingstoke knew that she couldn't even bring herself to
name the great terror of the poor--the living tomb which the English call the
workhouse. "I'm afraid you've had a hard time," said Mr. Basingstoke. "I had
many happy days," she said, simply. "I always think you pay for everything you
have, sooner or later. And I'm paying now. I don't grudge it, but I'd like to
end respectable. And thank you for asking so kindly, sir, and now I'll be
getting on." And he saw in her eyes the fear that he would offer her money to
pay her way to Droitwich. Instead he said: "We're motoring your way this
afternoon. If you'll let us give you a lift--"

The woman looked from one to the other. "Well," she said, "I do call that kind.
But I wasn't asking for any help. And I'd best be getting on." Then the other
woman came quite close to the woman in black. "Won't you," she said, "come and
have dinner with us--and then we'll drive you over? Do come. We're so happy and
we do hate to think that you aren't. Perhaps we can think of some way to help
you . . . find you some work or something," she added, hastily, answering the
protest in the blue eyes. "I don't like to, miss," she said, "thanking you all
the same. It's truly good of you--but--"

Edward moved away a pace or two and lit a cigarette. He never knew what his lady
said to the woman in black, but when he turned again a handkerchief was being
restored to a rubbed black leather reticule and the woman in black was saying,

"Well, ma'am, since you say that, of course I can't say no, and thank you
kindly." The three had dinner together in the little private room over the porch
at the Warwick Arms, and as they passed through the hall there could have been,
for the little woman in black, no better armor against the sniffs of
chambermaids and the cold eyes of the lady in the glass case than the feel of
another woman's hand on her arm. She was very silent and shy, but not awkward or
clumsy, during the meal, and when it was finished Edward got up and said,

"Well, Katherine, I'll leave you two to talk things over." It was the first time
he had called her by her name. She flushed and sparkled, and was startled and
amazed next moment to know that she had answered,

"Yes, dear, do--"

Edward, however, was not unduly elated. He knew how women will play the part set
for them, to the least detail. She hoped he had not noticed the slip which,
quite unconsciously, the opening of her heart toward this sad sister-woman had
led her to make. He wished that she had not first called him that in a mere
desire to act up to what this woman would expect. He left them, and then the
pitiful little story all came out, with fit accompaniment of sighs, and
presently tears, together with those sweet and tender acts and words which blend
with the sighs and tears of the sorrowful into a melody as sad as beautiful.
They had been married thirty-seven years next Michaelmas; they had had a little
shop--a little needlework and fancy shop. She had done well enough with the
customers, but he had always done the buying, and when he was taken. . . . "Ah,
my dear, don't cry," said the one who was young and happy, "don't cry. You'll
make him so sad." "Do you think he knows?" the widow asked. "Of course he knows.
He knows everything's going to be all right, only he hates to see you miserable.
_He_ knows it's only a little time, really, before you and he will be together
again, and happy for ever and ever." "I wish I could believe that." "You must,
because it's true. I expect he's been praying for you, and that's why you met us
--because, you know, I'm certain my"--she hesitated, but the word came instead
of "brother," which was what she thought she meant to say--"my husband will
think of something for you to do to earn your living; he's so clever. And I
suppose the business--"

Yes. The business had gone to pieces. Fashions change so, and the widow had not
known how to follow the fashions in needlework. There was only enough left to
pay the creditors, but every one _had_ been paid, and with the pound or two left
over she had lived, trying to get needle work, or even, at last, charring or
washing. But it had all been no good; nothing had been any good. "And now," said
Katherine, "everything's going to be good. You'll see. Edward will think of
something. Don't cry any more. You must not cry. I can't bear it, dear. Don't."
"I'm only crying for joy," said the woman whose life was over. "Even if he
doesn't think of anything, I can't ever despair again, and you being like you
have to me." But when Edward came back he had thought of something. His old
nurse, it seemed, was in temporary charge of a house that wanted a housekeeper,
and he was sure Mrs. Burbidge understood housekeeping. Mrs. Burbidge owned to an
understanding of plain cooking and plain housekeeping. Also needlework, both the
plain and the fine. "But not where butlers are kept," she said, apprehensively.
"This is a farm-house," said Edward. "Not a butler within miles." "My father was
a farmer, in Somerset," said Mrs. Burbidge, "but, oh, sir, you don't know
anything about me. Suppose I was a fraud like you read of in the newspapers. But
the vicar at home would speak for me." "Your face speaks for you," said
Katherine, and within half an hour all was settled--the old nurse telegraphed
to, money found for such modest outfit as even a farmer's housekeeper must have,
the train fixed that should take the widow to London, the little hotel named
where she should spend a night, and the train decided on that should take her in
the morning to the farm-house that needed a housekeeper. "It's no use me saying
anything," said Mrs. Burbidge, at parting, "but--"

"There's nothing to say," said Katherine, and kissed her, "only you will write
to the Reverend Smilie at Eccles vicarage. I can't be easy unless you do," were
her last words. When she was gone they stood a moment looking at each other, and
each would have liked to hold out hands to the other, to come quite close in the
ecstasy of a kind deed jointly done. Instead of which he said, awkwardly:

"I suppose that was a thoroughly silly thing to do." And she answered, "Oh,
well, let's hope it will turn out all right." An interchange which left both of
them chilled and a little disenchanted. It was Edward who had the sense to say,
as the motor whirled them toward Stratford, "That was all nonsense, you know,
that we said just now." She was disingenuous enough to say, "What--"

"About Mrs. Burbidge perhaps not being all right. She's as right as rain. I
don't know what made me say it." "A sort of 'do-good-by-stealth-and-blush-to-
find-it-fame' feeling, I expect, wasn't it? Of course she's all right. You know
I knew you knew she was, don't you?" "I know now," said he. "Yes, of course I
knew it. Don't let's pretend we aren't both jolly glad we met her." "No, don't
let's," said she. And laid her hand on his. His turned under it and held it,
lightly yet tenderly, as his hand knew that hers would wish to be held, and not
another word did either say till their car drew up at the prosperous,
preposterous Shakespeare Inn at Stratford-on-Avon. But all through the drive
soft currents of mutual kindness and understanding, with other electricities
less easy to classify, ran from him to her and from her to him, through the
contact of their quiet clasped hands. The inn at Stratford is intolerably half
timbered. Whatever there may have been of the old woodwork is infinitely
depreciated by the modern imitation which flaunts itself everywhere. The antique
mockery is only skin deep and does not extend to the new rooms, each named after
one of Shakespeare's works, and all of a peculiarly unpleasing shape, and
furnished exactly like the rooms of any temperance hotel. The room where
Katherine washed the dust of the road from her pretty face was called "The
Tempest," and the sitting-room where they had tea was a hideous oblong furnished
in the worst taste of the middle-Victorian lower middle class, and had "Hamlet"
painted on its door. "We must see the birthplace, I suppose," said Edward, "but
before we go I should like to warn you that there is not a single authentic
relic of Shakespeare, unless it's the house where they say he was born, and even
that was never said to be his birthplace till a hundred and fifty years after
his death, and even then two other houses claimed the same honor. If ever a man
was born in three places at once, like a bird, that man was William
Shakespeare." "You aren't a Baconian, are you?" she asked, looking at him rather
timidly across the teacups. "But you can't be, because I know they're all mad."
"A good many of them are very, very silly," he owned, "but don't be afraid. I'm
not a Baconian, for Baconians are convinced that Bacon wrote the whole of
Elizabethan and Jacobean literature off his own bat. I only think there's a
mystery. You remember Dickens said the life of Shakespeare was a fine mystery
and he trembled daily lest something should turn up." "And nothing has."
"Nothing. That's just it. There's hardly anything known about the man. He was
born here--died here. He went to London and acted. One of his contemporaries
says that the top of his performance was the Ghost in 'Hamlet.' He married, he
had children, he got hold of money enough to buy a house, he got a coat of arms,
he lent money and dunned people for it, he speculated in corn, he made a will in
which he mentions neither his plays nor his books, but is very particular about
his second-best bed and his silver-gilt bowl. He died, and was buried. That's
all that's known about him. I'm not a Baconian, Princess, but I'm pretty sure
that whoever wrote 'Hamlet,' that frowzy, money-grubbing provincial never did."
"But we'll go and see his birthplace, all the same, won't we?" she said. And
they went. If she desired to worship at the shrine of Shakespeare he did not
give her much chance. She listened to the talk of the caretaker, but always he
was at her ear with the tale of how often Shakespeare's chair had been sold and
replaced by a replica, how the desk shown as his is that of an eighteenth-
century usher and not of a sixteenth-century scholar. How the ring engraved "W.
S." was found in the surface of the ground, near the church, in 1810, where, one
supposes, it had lain unnoticed since Shakespeare dropped it there two hundred
years before. At the grammar-school Edward pointed out that there is no evidence
to show that Shakespeare ever attended this or any other school. Anne Hathaway's
cottage could not be allowed to be Anne Hathaway's, since it was only in 1770
that its identity was fixed on, two other houses having previously shared the
honor. Like her husband, she would seem to have possessed the peculiar gift of
being born in three places at once. "I don't think I like it," she said at last.
"I'd rather believe everything they say. It's such a very big lot of lies, if
they are lies. Let's go to the church. The man's grave's his own, I suppose." "I
suppose so," said he, but not with much conviction; "anyhow, I won't bore you
with any more of the stuff. But it _is_ a fine mystery, and there's a corner of
me that would like to live in Bloomsbury and grub among books all day at the
British Mu. and half the night in my booky little den, and see if I couldn't
find something out. But the rest of me wants different things, out-of-door
things, and things that lead to something more than finding the key to a door
locked three hundred years ago." The bust of Shakespeare in Stratford Church is
a great blow to the enthusiast. A stubby, sensual, Dutch-looking face. "I wish
they'd been content with the gravestone," she said, and read aloud the words:

"Goodfrend for Jesus sake forbeare      To digg the dust encloasèd heare
Blest be ye man yt spares these stones      And curst be he yt moves my bones."
"There's not much chance of any one doing that--look, the altar-step goes right
across the tombstone. I wonder what they _would_ find, if they _did_ move the
stone." "Nothing, madam," said a voice behind her--"nothing human, that is." She
turned to face a tall, gaunt man in loose, ill-fitting clothes with a despatch-
case in one hand and three or four note-books in the other. "Excuse my joining
in," he said, "but I couldn't help hearing what you said. Whatever there is in
that tomb, there is not the body of the man Shakespeare. Manuscripts there may
be, but no corpse." "What makes you think so?" she asked. "Evidence, madam,
evidence. The evidence of facts as well as of ciphers." "Oh," she said, and
smiled brilliantly, "you must be a Baconian. How very interesting!" Now she had
received all Edward's criticisms of Shakespearian legend with a growing and
visible impatience. Yet for this stranger she had nothing but sympathy and
interest. "It _is_ interesting," said the stranger. "There's nothing like it.
I've spent eighteen years on it, and I know now how little I know. It isn't only
Bacon and Shakespeare; it's a great system--a great cipher system extending
through all the great works of the period." "But what is it that you hope to
find out in the end?" she asked. "Secrets of state, or the secret of the
philosopher's stone, or what?" "The truth," he said, simply. "There's nothing
else worth looking for. The truth, whatever it is. To follow truth, no matter
where it leads. I'd go on looking, even if I thought that at the end I should
find that that Stratford man did write the plays." He looked up contemptuously
at the smug face of the bust. "It's a life's work," said Mr. Basingstoke, "and I
should think more than one life's work. Do you find that you can bring your mind
to any other kind of work?" "I gave up everything else," said the stranger. "I
was an accountant, and I had some money and I'm living on it. But now . . . now
I shall have to do something else. I've got a situation in London. I'm going
there next week. It's the end of everything for me." "There ought to be some
endowment for your sort of research," said Edward. "Of course there ought," said
the man, eagerly, "but people don't care. The few who do care don't want the
truth to come out. They want to keep that thing"--he pointed to the bust--"to
keep that thing enthroned on its pedestal forever. It pays, you see. Great is
Diana of the Ephesians." "I suppose it wouldn't need to be a very handsome
endowment. I mean that sort of research work can be done at museums. You don't
have to buy the books," Edward said. "A lot can be done with libraries, of
course. But I have a few books--a good few. I should like to show them to you
some day--if you're interested in the subject." "I am," said Edward, with a
glance at the girl, "or I used to be. Anyhow, I should like very much to see
your books. You have a Du Bartas, of course?" "Three," said the stranger, "and
six of the Sylva Sylvarum, and Argalus and Perthenia--do you know that--Quarles
--and--"

Next moment the two men were up to the eyes in a flood of names, none of which
conveyed anything to her. But she saw that Edward was happy. At the same time,
the hour was latish. She waited for the first pause--a very little one--but she
drove the point of her wedge into it sharply. "Wouldn't it be nice if you were
to come back to dinner with us, at Warwick, then we should have lots of time to
talk." "I was going to London to-night," said the stranger, "but if Warwick can
find me a night's lodging I shall only too gladly avail myself of your gracious
invitation, Mrs.--"

"Basingstoke," said Edward. The stranger had produced a card and she read on it:

DR. C. P. VANDERVELDE,              Ohio College, U. S. A. "Yes," he said, "I'm
an American. I think almost all serious Baconians are. I hope you haven't a
prejudice against my country, Mrs. Basingstoke--"

"It's Miss Basingstoke," she said, thinking of the hotel, "and I've never met an
American that I didn't like." He made her a ceremonious and old-fashioned bow.
"Inscrutable are the ways of fate," he said. "Only this morning I was angry
because the chambermaid at my inn in Birmingham destroyed my rubbing of the
grave inscription, and I had to come to Stratford to get another. Yes, I could
have written, but it was so near, and I shall soon be chained to an office desk
--and now, in this of all spots, I meet youth and beauty and sympathy and
hospitality. It is an omen." "And what," she asked, as they paced down the
church, "was the cipher that said there was nothing in the tomb? Or would you
rather not talk about your ciphers?" "I desire nothing better than to talk of
them," he answered. "It's the greatest mistake to keep these things secret. We
ought all to tell all we know--and if we all did that and put together the
little fragment of knowledge we have gathered, we should soon piece together the
whole puzzle. The first words I found on the subject are, 'Reader, read all, no
corpse lies in this tomb,' and so on, and with the same letters another anagram
in Latin, beginning '_Lector intra sepulcho jacet nullum cadaver_.' I'll show
you how I got it when we're within reach of a table and light." They lingered a
moment on the churchyard terrace where the willows overhang the Avon and the
swans move up and down like white-sailed ships. "How hospitable we're getting,"
she said to Edward that night when their guest had gone to his humbler inn--"two
visitors in one day!" "Katherine," he said, just for the pleasure of saying it,
for they two were alone, so he could not have been speaking to any one
else--"Katherine, that man's ciphers are wonderful. And what a gift of the gods
--to possess an interest that can never fail and that costs nothing for its
indulgence, not like postage-stamps or orchids or politics or racing!" "The
ciphers were wonderful," she said. "I had no idea such things were possible. I
understood quite a lot," she added, a little defiantly. "But it's rather hateful
to think of his being chained to a desk doing work that isn't _his_ work."
"That, or something like it, is the lot of most people," he said, "but it
needn't be his lot. It's for you to say. I can very well afford a small
endowment for research, if you say so." "But why must _I_ decide?" "Because," he
said, slowly, "I felt when I was talking to you to-day that you hated everything
I said; you wanted to go on believing in all the Shakespeare legends." "I think
I said so. I'm not sure that I meant it. Anyhow, if it rests with me I say give
him his research endowment, if he'll take it." "He'll take it. I'll get a man I
know at Balliol to write, offering it. In his beautiful transatlantic simplicity
the dear chap will think the college is offering the money. He'll take it like a
lamb. But won't you tell me--why was it that you hated me to be interested in
this business and you are glad that this Vandervelde should be helped to go on
with it?" "I should like him to be happy," she said, "and there's nothing else
in life for him--he has given up everything else for it. I want him, at least,
to have the treasure he's paid everything for--the joy of his work. But that
sort of joy should be reserved for the people who can have nothing else. But for
you--well, somehow, I feel that people who take up a thing like this ought to be
prepared to sacrifice everything else in life to it, as he has done. And I could
not bear that you should do it. Life has so much besides for you." "Yes," he
said, "life holds very much for me." "And for me, too," she said, and with that
gave him her hand for good night. He was certain afterward that it had not been
his doing, and yet it must have been, for her hand had not moved in his. And yet
he had found it laid not against his lips, but against his cheek, and he had
held it there in silence for more than a moment before she drew it away and said
good night. At the door she turned and looked back over her shoulder. "Good
night," she said again. "Good night, Edward." And that was the first time she
called him by his name. XV

KENILWORTH

THERE are some very pleasant shops in Warwick, and if you have time and no money
you can spend some very agreeable mornings wandering from one shop to another,
asking the prices of things you have all the will but none of the means to buy.
If you have money and time you will buy a few of the things whose prices you
have asked. Edward bought a ring, crystal with brilliants around it, very lovely
and very expensive, and some topazes set in old silver, quite as beautiful but
not so dear. Then they went to the old-furniture shops, where he excited the
vexed admiration of the dealers by his unerring eye for fakes. He bought an oak
chest, carved with a shield of arms, the date 1612, and the initials "I. B." "If
we were really married," he told her, "I should be vandal enough to alter that
'I' to make it stand for your name." "I should not think it a vandal's act--if
we were married," she answered, and their eyes met. He bought tables and chairs
of oak and beech; a large French cupboard whose age, he said, made it a fit mate
for the chest; he bought a tall clock with three tarnished gold pines atop, and
some brass pots and pewter plates. She strayed away from him at the last shop,
while he was treating for a Welsh dresser with brass handles, and when he had
made his bargain he followed her, to find her lovingly fingering chairs of
_papier-mâché_ painted with birds and flowers and inlaid with mother-of-pearl.
There was a table, too, graceful and gay as the chairs, and a fire-screen of
fine needlework. "You hate anything that isn't three or four hundred years old,"
she said. "It's dreadful that our tastes don't agree, isn't it? Don't you think
we ought to part at once? 'They separated on account of incompatibility of
furniture.'" "But don't you like the things we have been getting?" "Of course I
do, but I like these, too. They're like lavender and pot-pourri, and ladies who
had still-rooms and made scents and liqueurs and confections in them, and walked
in their gardens in high-heeled shoes and peach-blossom petticoats." "Why not
buy them, then?" "I would if I had a house. If I were buying things I should
first buy everything I liked, and not try to keep to any particular period. I
believe the things would all settle down and be happy together if you loved them
all. Did you get your precious dresser? And are you going to buy that Lowestoft
dessert-service to go on it?" He bought the Lowestoft dessert-service, beautiful
with red, red roses and golden tracery; and next day he got up early and went
around and bought all the painted mother-of-pearly things that she had touched.
He gave the man an address in Sussex to which to send everything, and he wrote a
long letter to his old nurse, whose address it was that he had given. They had
had dinner in the little private sitting-room over the front door, the smallest
private room, I believe, that ever took an even semi-public part in the life of
a hotel. It was quite full of curly glass vases and photographs in frames of
silver and of plush, till Edward persuaded the landlady to remove them, "for
fear," as he said, "we should have an accident and break any of them." They
breakfasted here, and here, too, luncheon was served, so that they met none of
the other guests at meals, and in their in-goings and out-comings they only met
strangers. Mr. Schultz might still have been at Tunbridge Wells, for any sense
they had of him. Presently and inevitably came the afternoon when they motored
to Kenilworth. "I've always wanted to see Kenilworth," she told him, "almost
more than any place. Kenilworth and the Pyramids and Stonehenge and the Lost
City in India--you know the one that the very name of it is forgotten, and they
just found it by accident, all alone and beautiful, with panthers in it instead
of people, and trees growing out of the roofs of the palaces, like Kipling's
Cold Lairs." "I get a sort of cold comfort from the thought of that city," he
said. "That and Babylon and Nineveh and the great cities in Egypt. When I go
through Manchester or New Cross or Sheffield I think, 'Some day grass and trees
will cover up all this ugliness and flowers will grow again in the Old Kent
Road.'" "It is cold comfort," she said. "I wish flowers and grass could cover
the ugliness, but I should like them to be flowers planted by us living people--
not just wild flowers and the grass on graves." The first sight of Kenilworth
was naturally a great shock to her, as it always is to those who know of it only
from books and photographs and engravings. "Oh dear," she said, "how horrible!
Why, it's pink!" It is, bright pink, and to eyes accustomed to the dignified
gray monochrome of our South Country castles, Bodiam and Hever, Pevensey and
Arundel, Kenilworth at first seems like a bad joke, or an engraving colored by a
child who has used up most of the paints in its paint-box and has had to make
shift with Indian red and vermilion, the only two tints surviving. But when you
get nearer, when you get quite near, when you look up at the great towers, when
you walk between the great masses of it, and see the tower that Elizabeth's
Leicester built, and the walls that Cromwell's soldiers battered down, you
forgive Kenilworth for being pink, and even begin to admit that pink is not such
a bad color for castles. At Kenilworth you talk, of course, about Queen
Elizabeth, and the one who has read the guide-books tells the one who hasn't
that when the Queen visited Leicester he had a new bridge built over his lake so
that she might enter the castle by a way untrodden by any previous guest. Also
that during her visit the clock bell rang not a note and that the clock stood
still withal, the hands of it pointing ever to two o'clock, the hour of banquet.
Further, that during her visit of seventeen days Kenilworth Castle managed to
put away three hundred and twenty hogsheads of beer. "Those were great days,"
said Edward. There are towers to climb at Kenilworth, as well as towers to gaze
at, and with that passion for ascending steps which marks the young the two made
their way to the top of one tower after another. It was as they leaned on the
parapet of the third and looked out over the green country that Edward broke off
in an unflattering anecdote of my Lord of Leicester. He stiffened as a pointer
stiffens when it sees a partridge. "Look!" he said, "look!" Two fields away
sheep were feeding--a moment ago calm, white shapes dotting a pastoral
landscape, now roused to violent and unsuitable activities by the presence among
them of some strange foe, some inspirer of the ungovernable fear that can find
relief only in flight. The scurrying mass of them broke a little, and the two on
the tower saw the shape of terror. They heard it, also. It was white and active.
It barked. "Oh, run," said she; "it _is_ Charles. I'm almost certain it is. Oh,
run!" And he turned and ran down the tower steps. She saw him come out and cross
the grassy square of the castle at fine racing speed. "It _is_ Charles," she
assured herself. "It must be." Yet how could even that inspired dog have escaped
from the stable at Warwick where they had left him, have followed their motor,
and got here so soon. She could not know that another motor from the hotel,
coming out to pick up a client, had overtaken Charles laboring up the hill from
the top of which you get your first view of the castle towers, and, recognizing
the dog--as who that had ever seen him could fail to do--had, so to speak,
offered him a lift. Charles had accepted, and would have been handed over to his
master's chauffeur at the Castle Gate House but that, a little short of that
goal, as the car waited for a traction engine to pass it in the narrow way,
Charles had seen the sheep, and with one bound of desperate gallantry was out
and after them before his charioteer could even attempt restraint. And now
Charles was in full pursuit of the sheep, barking happily in complete enjoyment
of this thrilling game, and Edward was in pursuit of Charles, shouting as he
ran. But Charles had no mind to listen--one could always pretend afterward that
one had not heard, and no dog was more skilful than Charles in counterfeiting
unconsciousness, nor in those acts of cajolery which soften the hearts of
masters. His surprised delight when he should at last discover that his master
was there and desired his company would be acted to the life and would be enough
to soften any heart. If either had looked up and back he could have seen a white
speck on a red tower, which was Herself, watching the chase. But neither of them
did. More observant and, to his own thinking, more fortunate, was another
visitor to the castle; he, to be exact, whom what we may call Charles's motor
had come to Kenilworth to pick up. He had seen the fleecy scurrying, heard the
yaps of pursuit, seen the flying form of Edward, and entered sufficiently into
the feelings of Charles to be certain that the chase was not going to be a short
one. He now saw from the foot of Mervyn's tower the white speck against blue
sky. He made his way straight to the tower where she stood. She saw him crossing
the grassy court which Edward's flying feet had but just now passed over. He
came quickly and purposefully, and he was Mr. Schultz--none other. Now she was
not afraid of Mr. Schultz. Why should she be? He had been very kind, and of
course she was not ungrateful, but it was a shock to see him there--a shock
almost as great as that given by the pinkness of Kenilworth, and, anyhow, she
did not want to meet him again; anyhow, not to-day; anyhow, not on the top of a
tower. And it was quite plain to her that he had perceived her presence, had
recognized her, and was coming up expressly because of that--that his views were
not hers, that he did want to meet her again, did want to meet her to-day, did
want to meet her on top of a tower--this tower. She looked around her "like a
hunted thing," as they say, and then she remembered a very little room, hardly
more than a recess, opening from the staircase. If she hurried down, hid there,
and stood very close to the wall, he would pass by and not notice, and as he
went up she could creep down and out, and, keeping close to the walls, get away
toward Edward and Charles and the sheep and all the things that do not make for
conversation with Mr. Schultz. Lightly and swiftly as a hunted cat she fled down
the stairs on whose lower marches was the sound of boots coming up toward her,
echoing in the narrow tower like the tramp of an armed man. It came to her, as
she reached the little room and stood there, her white gown crushed against the
red stones, how a captive in just such a tower in the old days she and Edward
had been talking of might have seized such a chance of escape from real and
horrible danger, might have hidden as she was hiding, have held his breath as
she now held hers, and how his heart would have beat, even as hers was beating,
at the step of the guard coming toward the hiding-place, passing it, going on to
the tower-top while he, the fugitive, crept down toward liberty and sunlight and
the good green world roofed with the good free sky. The thought did not make for
calmness. She said afterward that the tower must have been haunted by the very
spirit of fear, for a panic terror came over her, something deeper and fiercer
than anything Schultz could inspire--at any rate, in this century--and a caution
and care that such as fear alone can teach. She slid from her hiding-place and
down the stair, and as she went she heard above her those other steps, now
returning. Nothing in the world seemed so good as the thought of the sunshine
and free air into which in another moment she would come out. Round and round
the spirals of the stone staircase went her noiseless, flying feet; the sound of
the feet that followed came louder and quicker; a light showed at the bottom of
the stairs; she rounded the last curve with a catch of the breath that was
almost a cry, and in her eyes the vision of the fair, free outside world. She
sprang toward green grass and freedom and sunlight, and four dark walls received
her. For half-way down that tower the steps divide and she had passed the
division and taken the stairs that led down past the level of the earth. And the
light that had seemed to come through the doorway of the tower came through the
high-set window of a dungeon, and there was no way out save by the stairs on
which already she could hear feet descending. The man who followed her had not
missed the way. To turn back and meet that man on the stairs was impossible. She
stood at bay. And she knew what the captive in old days must have felt--what the
rabbit feels when it is caught in the trap. She stood rigid, with such an access
of blind terror that the sight of the man, when he came down the last three
steps, was almost--no, quite--relief. She had not fled from him, but from
something more vague and more terrible. And when he spoke fear left her
altogether, and she asked herself, "How could I have been so silly?" "Miss
Basingstoke?" He spoke on what he meant for a note of astonishment and pleasure,
but his acting was not so good as hers, and he had to supplement it by adding,
"This is, indeed, a delightful surprise." "Oh, Mr. Schultz," she said, and quite
gaily and lightly, too--"how small the world is! Of all unlikely places to meet
any one one knows!" and she made to pass him and go up the stairs. But he stood
square and firm at the stair-foot. "No hurry," he said, "no hurry--since we
_have_ met. It is a wonderful pleasure to me, Miss Basingstoke. Don't cut it
short. And what have you been doing all this long time?" "Oh, traveling about,"
she answered, watching the stair-foot as the rabbit from beside its burrow might
watch the exit at which a terrier is posted. "Just seeing England, you know. We
neglect England too much, don't you think, rushing off to the Riviera and Egypt
and India and places like that when all the while there are the most beautiful
things at home." "I agree," he said, "the most beautiful things are in England,"
and lest his meaning should escape her, added, with a jerk of a bow, "and the
most beautiful people." And still he stood there, smiling and not moving. "Have
you your car with you?" she asked, for something to say. "No, but I'll send for
it if you like. We could have some pleasant drives--Stratford, Shakespeare's
birthplace--"

"We've been to Stratford," she put in, and went a step nearer to the stair-foot.
"Then anywhere you like. Shall I send for the car?" "Mr. Basingstoke," she said,
quite untruly, "doesn't care much about motoring." "Mr.--? Oh, your brother!
Well, we did very well without him before, didn't we? Do you remember what a
jolly drive we had, and a jolly lunch; in point of fact, practically everything
was jolly until _he_ turned up. I wished him far enough, I can tell you, and I
hope you did. Say you did." "Of course I didn't," she had to say. "Well, he'd no
right to be stuffy if another fellow took care of you when he couldn't be
bothered to." "You know it wasn't that. You know it was a mistake." "I know a
good deal," he said, "more than you think for." And he smiled, trying to meet
her eyes. "It's cold here," she found herself saying. "I was just going up. I
don't like dungeons. Do you?" "I like this one," said he. "Anywhere where _you_
are, don't you know--a palace and all that--"

"I really must go," she said. "My brother won't know where I am." "No," he said,
with meaning, "he won't." And he set his two hands to the pillars of the arch
under which he stood and swayed to and fro, looking at her. "I must really go.
Will you let me pass, Mr. Schultz, please." "Not till you tell me to send for my
car. I've set my heart on those drives with you. Our brother can stay behind if
he doesn't care for motoring. _I_ don't want him, and I'll take care _you_ don't
miss him." "Do, please," she said, "let me pass." "No," said he. "I've got you
and I mean to keep you. Your brother--"

"He's not my brother," she said, on a sudden resolution. "We told you that
because, because--"

"Don't bother to explain," he said, smiling. That smile, in the days when that
dungeon _was_ a dungeon, might have cost him his life if the lady before him had
had a knife and the skill to use it. Even now it was to cost him something.
"He's not my brother--we're married," she said. And at that he laughed. "I know,
my dear girl," he said. "I know all about it. But marriages like that don't last
forever, and they don't prevent another gentleman playing for his own hand. I
was there when he wasn't, and you let me help you." "I wish I hadn't," said she.
"I wish I'd walked all the way to London first. I didn't think--"

"You didn't think I'd got the sense to put two and two together," said he; "but
I have. Come, look here. I liked your looks from the first. I thought-- Never
mind about that, though. I was wrong. But even now I like you better than any
girl I've ever come across. Now, look here--"

"Don't say any more," she urged, almost wildly. "Don't! I am married. You don't
believe me, but I am. You were kind once; be kind now and let me go--"

It was like a prisoner imploring a jailer. "Let you go?" he echoed. "I know
better. Not till you say, 'Send for the motor,' and that you'll go out in it
with me. Say that and you're free as air." And she might have said it, for the
terror that lurked in that tower was coming back, in a new dress, but the same
terror. But he went on, "Come, say it, and seal the bargain prettily." And then
she said, "If you don't let me pass I swear I'll--"

What the threat would have been she hardly knew, and he never knew, for he took
a step toward her with his hands outstretched, and words seemed at once to
become weak and silly. She clutched her rosy sunshade at about half its length
and struck full at his head. The sunshade broke. He put his hands to his temples
and held them a moment. "Now, by God," he said, "after that--" and came toward
her. And even as he moved the feet of the deliverer sounded on the stairs.
Hurried feet, spurning the stones, feet swifter than a man's, lighter than a
woman's--little feet that gave out a thin, quick sound not like the sound of
human footsteps. She called aloud on the name of the deliverer and he came,
swift as the arrow from the bow of a master-archer. "Charles!" she cried.
"Charles, seize him! Hold him!" And Charles, coming headlong into that dark
place like a shaft of live white light, seized him, and held, by the leg. Mr.
Schultz did his best to defend himself, but he had no stick, and no blows of the
human fist confused or troubled that white bullet head, no curses affected it,
and against those white teeth no kicks or struggles availed. "Hold him! hold
him!" she cried, the joy of vicarious battle lighting her eyes. "Confound it!"
said Schultz. "Call the devil off." "I will," said she, "from the top of the
stairs. And I'll leave you this for comfort: If you behave yourself for the
future I won't tell my husband about this. He'd half kill you." "I don't know
about that," said Schultz, even with Charles's teeth quietly but persistently
boring his leg. "I don't know so much about that." "I do," she said, with almost
the conviction of the woman in love. "You'd better stay here till we've gone
away. I'm not ungrateful for what you did for me on that day, and if you never
dare to speak to me again I'll never tell." "I don't care what you tell," said
Schultz. "Call the devil off, I say." She ran up the stairs, and at the top
called out, "Charles, drop it. Come here, sir." And Charles dropped it and came.
It was then for the first time that she felt that she was Charles's mistress,
even as Edward was Charles's master. The dog and the woman went out together
into the sunshine, and there, between blue sky and green grass, embraced with
all the emotions proper to deliverer and delivered. When Edward rejoined them,
five minutes later, she was able to say, quite calmly:

"Yes, he found me out. He _is_ clever. He is a darling." "He deserves a jolly
good hiding," said Edward, "and I've a jolly good mind to give it to him." "Let
him off this time," she said, "it was so clever of him to find me out. He hadn't
hurt any of the sheep, had he?" "No," said he, "but he might have." "Oh, if we
come to might-have-beens," said she, "I might not be here, he might not be here.
We all might not be here. Think of that. No, don't look at him with that 'wait-
till-I-get-you-home' expression. Forgive him and be done with it." And when she
looked at him like that, as he told himself, what could he do but forgive the
dog? "Why," he said, "of course I'll forgive him!" adding, with one of those
diabolical flashes of insight to which our subconscious selves are sometimes
liable. "Why, I'd forgive Schultz himself if you asked me like that." "It isn't
Mr. Schultz I want you to forgive," she said, "it's Charles--Charles that I
love." "Not Schultz whom you like." "I hate Schultz," said she, so vehemently
that he wondered. Because always before she had defended the man and called him
kind and helpful. It was, however, so pleasant to him that she should hate
Schultz that he put his wonder by to taste that pleasure. She had the self-
control to wait till they were gliding through the streets of Warwick before she
said, "Do you want to stay here any longer?" "Not if you don't," said he. "I
should like to go to Chester," she said, "now--this evening. Would you mind?
There's such lots to see, and something might happen at any moment to stop
our--"

"Our incredible honeymoon?" he said. "But what could?" "Oh, Aunt Alice might be
ill and want me"--and hated herself for the words. The moment she had uttered
them she felt that in using her as a defense she had almost as good as called
down the wrath of the gods on Aunt Alice, whom she loved. "Oh, a thousand things
might happen," she added, quickly. "My lady's will is my law," said Edward, and
within an hour or two they were on the way to Chester. Charles did not, this
time, make his journey in the dog-box. She smiled on the guard, and Charles
traveled in a first-class carriage with his master and his mistress. He sat
between them and was happy as only they can be happy who have combined duty and
pleasure. He had chased sheep--this was obviously not wrong, since master had
not punished him for it. He had bitten a stranger at mistress's bidding.
Mistress was evidently one who sympathized with the natural aspirations of
right-minded dogs. Charles knew now how much he loved her. He leaned himself
against her, heavily asleep, now and then growling softly as he slept. His
mistress felt that in his dreams he was still biting Mr. Schultz. He was. XVI

CAERNARVON

SOMEHOW or other Chester failed to charm. Neither of them could understand why.
Perhaps the Stratford Hotel had given them a momentary surfeit of half-timber;
perhaps the fact that the skies turned gray and substituted drizzle for sunshine
had something to do with it; perhaps it was the extreme badness of the hotel to
which ill-luck led them, a hotel that smelt of stale seed-cake and bad coffee
and bad mutton-fat, and was furnished almost entirely with bentwood chairs and
wicker tables; perhaps it was the added aggravation of seeing a river which
might have been to them a second Medway, and seeing it quite impossible and
miserably pitted with little rain-spots. Whatever the reason, even next
morning's sunshine and the beauty of the old walls and the old walks failed to
dispel the gloom. They bought rain-coats and umbrellas in a shop that had known
ruffs and farthingales, paid their hotel bill, which was as large as the hotel
was bad, and took the afternoon train to Caernarvon. The glimpse of Conway
Castle from the train cheered them a little. The sight of the sea did more--but
still he felt a cloud between them, and still she felt more and more that he was
aware of it. Charles sat between them, as before, and over that stout white back
his eyes met hers. "What is it?" he asked, suddenly. "Yesterday I thought it was
the half-timber and the rain--this morning I thought it was yesterday, but it
isn't. Something's happened that you haven't told me." She turned her eyes from
his and stroked the flappy white ears of Charles. "Hasn't it?" he urged. "Ah,
you will tell me, won't you? Was it something from the aunts?" For there had
been letters that morning, sent on from Warwick. "No, the letters were all
right. Everybody's furious except Aunt Alice, but she's the only one that
matters." "Then what is it?" "It's almost gone," she said. "Oh, look at the
rocks and the heather on that great hill." "Then there was something," he said;
"something you won't tell me." "Not won't," she said, gently. "Can't? Something
that's happened and you can't tell me?" He remembered how on the last night at
Warwick he had held that hand of hers against his face. They had seemed so very
near then. And now there was a gulf suddenly opened between them--the impassable
gulf of a secret--a secret that was hers and not his. "Yes, something did happen
and I have promised not to tell you. If ever I can, I will." "Something has come
between us and you have promised not to tell me what it is?" "Oh no--no!" she
said, very earnestly, and her dear eyes looked full in his. "Nothing has come
between us--nothing could--"

He realized, with some impatience, that Charles, at least, was between them. But
for Charles he could, quite naturally and _ayant l'air de rien_ have leaned a
little toward her as he spoke--so that his shoulder might, perhaps, if she had
leaned also, have just touched hers. But across Charles this could not be. And
to lean, after the removal of Charles, would bear an air of premeditation not to
be contemplated for an instant. "If it's nothing that comes between us--" he
said. "But even then, it's something that's made you sad, made you different. I
suppose, though, it's unreasonable to expect that there shall be no secrets
between any two human beings, no matter how--how friendly they are," he ended,
with conscious lameness. "Of course it's unreasonable," she said; "it would
mean, wouldn't it, that neither of us could ever be trusted by any one else?
Whereas now people can tell you things they wouldn't want to tell me, and tell
me things they wouldn't care about telling you." "Then this--I'm not worrying
you to tell me--but if it is somebody else's secret--"

"Well, it is," she said. "Now, are you satisfied? And if you'll only let me look
at the sea and the mountains and the heather the Chester cloud will go right
away. It's nearly gone now. And I've never seen any real mountains before, not
mountains like these, with warm colors and soft shapes--only the Pyrenees and
the Maritime Alps, and they look just like white cardboard cut into points and
pasted on blue sugar-paper--that's the sky." "It's prettier at sunrise, with the
mountains like pink and white sugar, and Corsica showing like a little cloud
over the sea. We had a villa at Antibes when I was a little chap, before we lost
our money. We'll go there again some day, shall we, and see if the mountains
have changed at all? Not this winter, I think. I've never had an English winter
free from work I didn't like. I must have just this one. You don't mind?" What
he hoped she wouldn't mind was less the English winter than his calm assumption
that there was plenty of time, that they would always be together and might go
where they would and when--since all the future was before them--all the future,
and each other's companionship all through it. "Why should I mind?" she
answered. "I've never had a free winter in England, either, or anywhere else,
for that matter." "Then that's settled," said he, comfortably, "and you can't
think what a comfort it is to me that you don't hate Charles. You might so
easily have hated dogs." "If I'd been that sort of person I shouldn't be here."
"Ah, but Charles might so easily have been the one kind of dog you couldn't
stand. He's not everybody's dog, by any means. Are you, Charles? Of course it's
almost incredible that this earth should contain people who don't like Charles,
yet so it is." "The people he's bitten?" "Oh, those!" said Edward, adding, with
a fine air of tolerance, "I could almost find excuses for them--they've not seen
the finer aspects of his character. No, there are actually human beings to whom
Charles's personality does not appeal--persons whom he has borne with patiently,
whom he has refrained from biting, or even sniffing at the trousers legs of.
Prejudice is a mysterious and terrible thing. Oh, but it's a good world--all the
same." "Isn't it," she said, "with the sun shining and the mountains and the
rocks and the sea all there, just like a picture? Oh, there's no doubt but it's
a beautiful world." "And you and I and Charles going out to see it all together.
It's a fine world, every bit of it--and the little bit we're just coming to is
Caernarvon." Caernarvon it was, and they spent nearly a week there. The castle
is all that a castle should be; and as for the sea, what can be better, unless
it's in Cornwall; and there is Anglesea, lying flat against the sky, and the
Elephant Mountain and the Seven Sisters, and old Snowdon topping all. The inn
was comfortable, the weather had grown kind again, the hostler was one of those
to whom Charles's personality so much appealed that the dog was almost too
replete with good living to appreciate the rats provided for his recreation.
This hostler, Owen Llewellyn, became such an enthusiast in the service of
Charles that Mr. Basingstoke was only able by a fortunate chance, the strong
exercise of authority, and a golden offering for the soothing of wounded
feelings to stop the entertainment which Owen had arranged with several of his
friends in a handy field and the cool of the evening: a quiet little dog-fight,
as the friends indignantly explained, with Charles and a worthy antagonist
filling the leading rôles. "It isn't as if the dogs wouldn't enjoy it more than
any one else, and me putting all my money on your dog, sir," one of the friends
(from London) complained. "There ain't nothing that that there dog 'u'd love
better nor a bit of a scrap. An' you to go agin the animal's natural desires and
keep him for a lap-dog for the lady. It ain't right," he ended, feelingly, as
the lap-dog was led off, yapping defiance at the adversary whom, so his admirers
swore, he could have licked hollow with one paw tied behind him. It was at
Caernarvon that Edward and his princess lived the quiet life that does not lead
to sight-seeing. There was something poignantly domestic to his mind in those
long mornings in green fields or among the broken and still beautiful colonnades
of the castle, he with a book from which he read to her, she with some work of
embroidery in which a bright needle flashed among pleasant-colored silks. It was
in the castle, in one of those mysterious narrow passages, that they came face
to face with a tall, handsome man of middle age, who shook Edward's hand with
extreme vigor, clapped him on the back, and announced that he would have run a
mile for the sake of seeing him. Edward would have run two to avoid the meeting,
because the eyes of the back-clapper were turned on Katherine, awaiting the
introduction which must come. Colonel Bertram, an old friend of Edward's
father's, knew well enough that Edward was an only child. No brother-and-sister
tale was possible here. "Do you hang out in these parts?" Edward asked. "I
wonder you knew me. I don't believe we've met since I was about sixteen." While
he spoke he looked a question at her, and read the slightest possible sign with
which she answered. "Colonel Bertram--my wife. Katherine, the Colonel used to
tip me sovereigns when I was at school, and he gave me my first pony." The
colonel's grip ground her rings into her hand. "'Pon my word!" he said, "I don't
know when I've been so pleased. You must come and dine with us, my boy, to-
night-- To-morrow? Make him come, Mrs. Basingstoke. I know it's not manners to
intrude on a honeymoon, but I am such an old friend, and our meeting like this
is such a remarkable coincidence, almost like the finger of Providence--upon my
soul it is." "It's very, very nice of you to ask us," she said, in a voice of
honey, "but, unfortunately, we're leaving this afternoon." "Well, at any rate,
let's lunch together. No, of course; too late for that. Well, look here, you've
seen the castle, of course; come and see over the prison. I'm governor there,
for my sins. Come and let me show you my prison!" His simple pride in the only
sight he had to show prevailed even against the shrinking she felt and did not
wholly understand. "When are you leaving? The six o'clock train? Plenty of time.
We've made wonderful reforms, I can tell you. The cells are pictures, perfect
pictures. 'Pon my word, I never was so glad to see any one. And so you're
married. Dear, dear, dear! Makes me feel an old boy, that it does! The young
ones growing up around us--eh, what?" He led the way out of the castle, and
Edward and Katherine exchanged behind his cordial back glances almost of
despair. They had not wanted to leave Caernarvon, but Edward could only bless
Katherine for her decision. The relations of Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke could
never have stood the affectionate cross-questionings of Mrs. Bertram. They must
go; Katherine was right. Katherine, meantime, was wishing she had invented a
headache, an appointment at the local dentist's, had even simulated a swoon at
Colonel Bertram's feet, before she had consented to visit a prison. From the
first moment of her entrance there the prison appalled her. It was a very nice
prison, as prisons go. But the grating at the door, the locks that clicked, the
polished keys, the polished handcuffs, the prison records which their host
exhibited with so much ingenuous enthusiasm; the cells, one little cage after
another in which human birds were pent. . . . "What have they all done?" she
asked, as they walked along a stone-paved gallery; and wished she had not asked,
for the details of horrible crimes were the last things she wished to hear. "Oh,
petty felonies, mostly," said the governor, airily. It seemed more and more
horrible to her that she and he and the governor should tread the mazes of this
place free to come and go as they chose, while these other human beings, for
whatever fault--and it seemed the faults could hardly rank as crimes--should be
here encaged, never more to go out free till their penance should have purged
them. "I suppose one mustn't give them anything?" "A little good advice wouldn't
be amiss. 'Don't do it any more,' and so on. Would you like to give them an
address, Mrs. Basingstoke?" She hated his badinage. "I mean tobacco or chocolate
or books, or anything that they'd _like_," she explained, patiently. "No, no,"
said the governor. "They aren't pets, you know. Mustn't feed them through the
bars as though they were rabbits or guinea-pigs. The townspeople _will_ throw
tobacco over into the yard. Can't stop them. But of course we punish the
offenders very severely whenever we manage to bring it home to them." The
horrible sense of slavery grew on her--the prisoners were slaves to the warders,
the warders slaves, and super-subservient slaves, to the governor, the governor
himself a slave to some power unseen but all-potent. She watched her opportunity
and while Colonel Bertram was explaining to Edward the method of the manufacture
of post-office bags she opened her purse in her pocket and let all its contents
fall loose, therein. Then she gathered the money in a handful, careful that no
rattle or chink should betray her, and when the governor was explaining how wire
netting, spread over each gallery to catch any object thrown from above rendered
suicide difficult, if not impossible, she knotted the money in her handkerchief.
Then she watched for further opportunity, hoping against hope, for it seemed
that her chance would never come. There were eyes everywhere. "If I can't do it
here, I'll buy tobacco and throw it over the wall," she told herself. It was in
the kitchen that the chance came. Three prisoners were there acting as cooks,
and the governor had sent the attendant warder on some errand, to order tea for
them in his office, as events showed. "Very nice--very neat--very clean." She
praised all in the simplest and most direct words. The governor again addressed
himself to Edward. It was a tale of poaching that he told--the theft of two
hares and a pheasant--a desperate crime duly punished. He and Edward left the
kitchen, talking. She followed, but first she laid her hand on a table near the
door and looked full at the nearest prisoner. Then she smiled. The three smiled
back at her. Then she opened her hand, showing plainly the knotted handkerchief.
"Good luck!" she said, low, but so that they all heard her. Then she followed
the governor and Edward, but at the door she turned and kissed her hand to the
three prisoners. The faces they turned to her will stay with her as long as she
lives. Wonder, delight, incredulity--that any one--that _she_ should have cared
to say "good luck," should have smiled at them, should have left them her
handkerchief, though they did not yet know what was in it. The wonder and
worship in their eyes brought tears to her own. They were still there when the
governor turned. "A cup of tea, now, Mrs. Basingstoke," he said, "it's all
ready." She answered hurriedly, "It's very kind of you, but, do you know, if you
don't mind, I think we ought to be going. We've got to pack and all that."
Colonel Bertram, who was no fool, heard the quivering voice and saw the swimming
eyes. "So sorry," he said, "but charmed to have met you--charmed," and stood
back for her to pass the door of the corridor. "_I_ understand," he said; "your
wife's a bit upset. Ladies often are; they don't understand the law, you know,
the great principles of property and the law. Don't mention it; I like them
soft-hearted. You're a fortunate man, my boy--deuced fortunate. Good-by. So
very, very pleased we happened to meet. Good-by." The well-oiled locks clicked
to let them out. In the street she caught his arm and clung to it. "There,
there!" he spoke as one speaks to a frightened child. "It's all over; don't
distress yourself." "It's not all over for them," she said. "Prisons have to
be," said Edward. "Have they?" said she. "I suppose they do, but such little
things. To take a pair of boots because your feet are cold and you have no
money, and to pay for what you've done--with _that_. Horrible! horrible!"
Neither of them spoke again till they were nearly at the hotel. Then he said,
"What did you give them?" "What do you mean?" "I saw you knotting something in
that little scented handkerchief of yours. What was it you gave them." "Every
penny I had. And I said, 'Good luck to you,' and I kissed my hand to them.
There!" she said, defiantly. "It was like you," he said, and took her arm. "But
I wish I hadn't let you go inside the place. I didn't realize how it would be to
you. I didn't realize what it would be to me." "It was silly of me, I suppose,"
she said. "I dare say. But you were lucky; I only managed to drop my tobacco-
pouch among the post-office bags, but our guilt is equal. The sooner we get out
of Caernarvon the better. By the way, don't let's catch the six-o'clock train to
nowhere in particular. Let's take a carriage and drive to Llanberis and see the
slate-quarries and go up Snowdon." "Don't let's ever go into another prison,"
she said, blinking so that the tears should drop off her eyelashes and not run
down her face, "it hurts so horribly, and we can't do any good." "Not do any
good?" he said. "Do you suppose that life can ever be the same to a man to whom
you've smiled and kissed your hand? Ah, I don't mean it for empty gallantry, my
dear. I mean that to know that you, free and beautiful, care for them in their
misery and imprisonment--don't you think that's worth something?" "If it is, I'm
glad we went," said she. Their departure for Llanberis, though sudden, was the
less deplored by the hotel management because of a regrettable misunderstanding
which had arisen during the afternoon between Charles and the house cat. XVII

LLANBERIS

LLANBERIS, prim and small, and very, very Welsh, lies in the shadow of great
Snowdon, and all about it the lesser and more gracious mountains--the mountains
of green and purple and brown--stand with their heads against the sky, bathing
their feet in great lakes of smooth, brown water. The inn has a beautiful and
terraced garden; the stream from the waterfall under Snowdon runs tumbling and
gurgling down its rocky bed. "The peace that is upon the lonely hills" may be
yours at the cost of a little breathless, happy climbing; the deeper peace of
valleys and lake may be yours for no more trouble than it takes to walk a couple
of hundred yards from the door of your inn. That the hotel was full did not seem
to matter--the other guests were off early, in breaks and wagonettes, spending
the long days in excursions from which they returned late and hilarious,
breaking the soft night quiet with loud laughter and snatches of the kind of
songs that nowadays delight the great heart of the people. Trippers from
Manchester and Liverpool came for the day, but never strayed far from the inn,
or, if they did, went up Snowdon by the tiny railway. Everywhere, save on the
way that led to Snowdon, you were sure of quiet or peace, of a world where two
could be alone together. Here the two tried to take up again the life of ordered
ease that had been theirs at Caernarvon, the little life they had prized and
cherished till the governor of Caernarvon prison had thrown a stone into their
magic pool, shattering all its mirrored beauty. They spent long mornings on the
hillside, cushioned by the heather; long evenings by the lakeside, always
careful to choose their resting-place so that they need not see the scars where
the waste slate is tipped into the lake, slowly overlaying the green and
graceful margin with which Nature, if you let her alone, frames all water
mirrors. And once they went as far as the mysterious Round Tower, which stands
alone, with no entrance but the doorway high above your head. "What a place to
keep your enemy in," he said, "or your friend! Suppose the tower had been my
stronghold, in the old days. I could have brought my princess here, and snapped
my fingers at her relations drawn round the tower in a ring, shaking their fists
at me from their coal-black steeds, and vowing vengeance when the tower should
yield--which, of course, it never would." "Your princess would have starved,"
she said, "and you with her." "Not at all," he assured her; "you underrate the
resources of round towers. To say nothing of the goats and sheep which we should
drive in and lower to the basement when our scout brought news that your kinsmen
were sending out the fiery cross or the blood eagle, or whatever it was that
they did send out; and there's an inexhaustible well inside the tower, and of
course we should have sacks of meal and casks of mead." "But the enemy--her
relations, I mean--would have all the sheep on the mountains and all the flour
in the mills. You'd have to give in, in the end." "You forget the underground
passage. When we were tired of mocking your uncles and cousins through the
arrow-slits of our tower we'd quietly creep away to our great castle--it's at
Caernarvon, you know--and call together all my uncles and cousins and sally out
and have a great battle, and the sound of our blows on their helmets would be
heard on the far side of Anglesea, and down to the very southernmost marches of
Merioneth." "But suppose her relations won the battle and shut you up in a
dungeon and put her into a convent?" "Oh, they wouldn't. All our armor would be
so perfectly tempered that nobody would be hurt. It would be like a tournament,
and at the end, just as your senior uncle and I had unhorsed each other and were
about to perish, mutually cloven to the chine, you would rush between us--in
white, with your hair flowing like a thunder-cloud behind you--and say to each
of us, 'Spare him for my sake.' And of course we should. And then there would be
a banquet in the great hall at Caernarvon and clean rushes on the floor, and you
and I and all our relations sitting in state on the dais, and you'd be wearing
your gown of cloth of gold and your cloak of vair, and all your jewels--and I
should have my furred gown and my great ring, and we should drink out of the big
silver drinking-bowl--mead and strong ale--and feast our guests and their men-
at-arms and all our own people on roast boars' heads and barons of beef, and all
live happily ever afterward." "I don't think she'd wear her ermine mantle.
Wouldn't she wear the one of woven red, with your coat of arms embroidered on
it, and the gold beads you brought her from the East when you went to the wars
there?" "Perhaps you would," he conceded. "I believe I could climb up to that
doorway. I should like to--just to be sure there's really a well inside." "No,
don't," said she, "because you might find out that there wasn't; or that this
isn't really the tower that has the underground passage leading to Caernarvon,
and then we should know that we're not really remembering that other life when
you carried her off, but only making it up." "Of course we remember it. Do you
remember whether you were angry with me for carrying you off." "If she hadn't
wanted to be carried off," she said, demurely, "she wouldn't have been. Or if
she hadn't been able to help herself she'd have found a little knife, like the
brown bride, or else something to put in your mead-cup, so that the first
draught you had from her hand would have been the last. She wasn't the sort of
woman to be taken against her will. Come away before you spoil the story with
any more questions. I liked it best when we took the tale for granted--"

It was high up among the heather, with Charles safely tethered and the steep
hillside dotted with hundreds and hundreds of sheep, that the talk grew earnest
and dwelt not on dreams of old days, but the desire of new ones. "Do you
remember," he said, "what you told me when we were going to Warwick?" He spoke
as though this had been a long time ago, as, indeed, by any count but time it
was. "You remember about the scattered farms, and the way the little houses call
to you to come home." "Yes," she said. "All that you said about the life--it was
like my other self speaking." "You mean that when I spoke, your inside self
said, 'Yes, yes; that's what I mean'?" "I mean more than that. My inside self
said, 'Yes, yes, that's what I always meant. That's what I meant and what I
wanted before ever I met you.' Then meeting you obscured everything else, but
when you spoke I saw that what I had always wanted rhymed with what you had
always wanted. But I want to be quite sure. May I ask questions?" "Yes."
"Suppose we had been really married--would you have been contented to spend your
working life on a farm, to live just that life that you spoke of that day going
to Warwick?" She did not speak for a moment, and for a moment he wished that he
had not questioned. And when she did speak it was not to give him an answer. "I
didn't believe it was possible," she said. "I thought people couldn't make
farming succeed, nowadays, and I don't think I could bear to spend my working
life, as you call it, on a thing that is foredoomed to failure." "Nor could I;
and I don't mean to, either. My farm will succeed. If it costs me every penny I
have it shall succeed. I shall go a new way to work. You know I've really got
quite a lot of money, and I have a plan." "Tell me about it." "It's quite
simple, and absolutely opposed to all the accursed teachings of political
economy. Of course I shall get the best machinery and the best seeds and the
best implements. But I shall also get the best labor." "Doesn't every one try to
do that?" "Oh yes, every farmer tries to get the best labor he can, at current
rates. I sha'n't bother about the current rates. I shall get the best men that
are to be got and I shall pay them wages that will make them glad to come to me
rather than to any one else. If I find a man's good I shall give him a share in
the profits of the farm; if I find he isn't any good I shall sack him." "I
wonder," she said, "whether you'd have the heart to sack any one?" "I might
hesitate to sack a mere fool," he admitted. "I might be tempted to keep him on
and find some work for him that even a fool could do. But I'd chuck a slacker at
a week's notice and never turn a hair. You'll see; I shall have failures, many
of them, but the whole thing won't be a failure. Before I've done I shall have
the best carters, the best dairy-women, the best bailiff, and the best plowman
and the most successful farm in the country. You don't know how men can work who
are working for themselves and not just for a master." "You mean to make it a
sort of communal farm?" "Never," he said. "That's the last thing I mean it to
be. But it will be a profit-sharing farm, and I shall run it. It's my own idea,
the darling of my soul, and I won't trust its life to any other man. I'm almost
afraid to trust it to you, for fear you should not be kind to it. But if what
you said on the way to Warwick meant something that lasts in you--not just the
beautiful thoughts of the moment--tell me, if we were really married could you
endure a life like that?" "I should know nothing about it; I should be of no
use. And we're not married--"

"You could learn; we could both learn. Let's pretend for a moment that we're
really going to spend our lives together, anyhow. Let's leave Mrs. Basingstoke
out of it. Would Miss Basingstoke have been able to endure such a life?" "Miss
Basingstoke would have loved it," she said. "Miss Basingstoke would have done
her best to learn, and--she isn't really stupid, you know--I think Miss
Basingstoke would have succeeded." "It would need patience," he said, "patience
and bravery and loving-kindness and gentleness and firmness and unselfishness."
"And curiosity," she said. "That quality, at least, Miss Basingstoke has. She
would have wanted to know all about everything, and that's one way of learning.
She wants, now, to know ever so much more. Tell her everything that you've
thought of about it, everything you've decided or not decided." "You'll be kind
to my darling dream, then," he said. "Well, here goes." And with that he told
her, and she listened and questioned, and he answered again till the shadows had
grown heavy in the valley and they were very late indeed for dinner. You cannot
be long in Llanberis without wanting to "see over" a slate-quarry. It was on
their fifth day that the desire came to these two. The mention of Colonel
Bertram's name gained for them a personally conducted tour through the rows of
little slate-roofed sheds where skilled workmen strip and chip and shape the
flakes of quarried slate till they are the size and form needed for roofing
cottages and schools and Nonconformist chapels. Having seen how the slate is
treated in the sheds, they were taken into the quarry itself to see how the
slate is got. A big slate-quarry is a very impressive sight. You walk across a
great amphitheater whose walls of slate rise high above you, their green-trimmed
edges sharply cut against the sky. You pick your way among pools of water so
smooth, so clear, that they reflect like mirrors the blue sky and the high slate
walls of the quarry. One such pool--the largest--lay in the middle of the vast
amphitheater, and in it the towering cliffs of slate were reflected even more
clearly than in the others. "I never saw such reflections," she was saying, as
they skirted the big pond. "They're almost more real than the real thing. I am
glad we came here; it's all so clear and bright and new-looking. I wonder--"

"I wouldn't walk quite so near the edge, if I was you, sir," said the foreman,
who was their guide. "Why?" Edward asked, gazing at the reflection of high
cliffs in the pool at his side, "is the water deep--"

And even as he spoke his eyes were opened; but before he could obey their
mandate, with a cry that went to his heart and held it she caught his arm and
pulled him back. For in that instant she, too, had seen that this pool which
reflected so perfectly the tall precipices of the quarry was not a pool at all,
but another deep quarry within the first, and that what it held was no
reflection, but a sheer and dreadful depth of precipice going down--she would
not look to see how far. And he had been walking within six inches of its brink,
carelessly and at ease, as one does walk by the safely shelving edge of any
pond. She did not let his arm go when she had drawn him away from that perilous
edge; she held it closely pressed against her side, and when he looked at her he
saw that her face was white and changed. The great precipice above them swayed a
little to her eyes--she dared not look at the precipice below. She held his arm
closely and more closely, folding both hands on it. The foreman was saying
something. Neither of them heard what it was, only both caught the concluding
words:

"Perhaps you'd like to see the place, sir." "Thank you," said Edward,
mechanically, "and then I think we must leave you. It's been most kind of you to
show us all this; we've been most interested." Her heart was beating in so wild
an ecstasy of thanksgiving for an unspeakable horror escaped, his heart was
beating in so passionate and proud and humble a recognition of what her touch on
his arm confessed, that neither of them heard the foreman's words or guessed at
the meaning of what he was calmly and coldly telling them. Only afterward the
memory of his words came back, bringing with it understanding. They were led
across a flat wilderness of splintered slate toward the tall cliff from which
now and then came the noise like thunder which blasting-powder makes when it
does its work. They two, hardly conscious of anything but that they held each
other--the one who had been in danger, safe; the other passionately grateful for
that other's safety; and the endangered one, passionately sensible of her
passionate gratitude, heard not a word that the foreman spoke, though he spoke
all the time. "You are here; I hold you safe; but, oh, if I had lost you!" her
heart was singing to a breathless, syncopated measure. "You cared; you cared as
much as this. If I had fallen over that perilous edge. . . . Oh, but you care,
you care! It is as much as this to you," his heart sang, keeping time to hers.
It was a trance of mutual meeting emotion such as they had not yet known. In
that one moment, when he walked the narrow edge of that precipice and when she
had seen the precipice for the horror it was, she learned more than in all her
life before. And he, in the moments that followed, knew, beyond possibility of
mistake or misunderstanding, what it was that she had learned. If only they
could have walked straight out of that quarry into the world of stream and
mountain, the world where you are only two--but the foreman was there, walking
and talking, and at last stopping and saying:

"This is where it happened." And they came out of their dream to find themselves
close to the slate cliff at whose base lay great blocks of slate newly fallen,
and to see the flat slate flakes at their feet, brown and wet. "Where what
happened?" Edward asked, vaguely. "What I've been telling you about," said the
foreman, aggrieved. "Where one of our workmen was killed just now, blasting;
that's his blood what you're standing in," said he. Then, indeed, she clung to
his arm. "Take me away," she whispered. "Oh, why does everything turn horrible
like this? It's like a horrible dream. Let's get away. Give him something and
let's get away." "It's not my fault," said the foreman, in very injured tones.
"She said she'd like to see it. I wondered, at the time, but there's no
accounting for females, is there?" They got away from the place--out of the
quarry and into the road. They found the stream that flows from the waterfall
under Snowdon, and the flagged path that lies beside the stream. They passed
along it, she still clinging to his arm. Presently a smooth, mossy rock invited
them, and before either of them knew it they were seated there, side by side,
and she was weeping on his shoulder. He did not need her whispered words that
broke a long silence--"Thank God, you're safe"--to tell him what he had to
think, nor what, from that hour, he had to live for. "But, oh," she said at
last, lifting her face from his coat-sleeve, "what a horrible day! We've struck
a streak of horrible things. Let's go back to the south, where things aren't
like this." "We'll go to-night, if you like," he said. "Yes," she answered,
eagerly, "yes. But this isn't the end. I feel there's something more coming--I
felt it at Chester. It wasn't only that thing I couldn't tell you--something's
going to happen to separate us." "Nothing can--but you," he said, hugging to his
heart all that her admission implied. "I feel that something will," she said.
And he, for all that he laughed at her fears and her predictions, with pride and
joy swelling in his heart till they almost broke the resolution of quiescence,
of waiting, of submitting his will to her will, yet felt in those deep caves
that lie behind the heart, behind the soul, behind the mind of man, the winds of
coming misfortune blow chilly. It was no surprise to either of them to find at
the hotel a telegram for Mrs. Basingstoke:

Aunt Alice much worse. Please come at once. It was signed with the name of the
aunt whose dog-cart had run over Charles, and beneath whose legs Charles had
experienced his miraculous resurrection from death. There was no reason to
mistrust this telegram as they had mistrusted the advertisement. But she said to
herself, "There! That's because of what I said at Warwick." They caught the last
train to London that night, and through the long, lamp-lit journey Charles no
longer lay between them. The white, bullet head lay on her lap--but on her other
side was Edward, and her shoulder and his touched all the way, even as, on the
journey to Warwick, he had dreamed of their touching. They spoke little; it
seemed as though everything had been said. Only when her head drooped against
his shoulder and he knew that she had fallen asleep he felt no sense of daring,
no doubts as to his rights or her resentments when he passed his arm around her
and rested his chin on her soft hair, gazing straight before him in the
flickering half-light while she slept--oh, dreams come true--upon his breast.
XVIII

LONDON

IT was very late when they parted on the door-step of the house in Hyde Park
Square. "I don't know how to let you go," he said, and took both her hands,
regardless of the cabman's stony attention. "I shall just go back to my rooms in
Montague Street--Thirty-seven; I've written it down for you. And, look here, I
won't come and see you and I won't bother you, but if you want me I'll be there.
You must just do what you want to do." What she wanted to do was to jump into
the waiting taxicab and go back with him into that world of fine and delicate
adventure where were blue skies, gold sun, green leaves, the mystery of
mountains, the sparkle of water, and the velvet of old lawns; and, for each in
the soul of the other, a whole world of unexplored wonder and delight. What she
said was: "Thank you. I will write and tell you what happens. Good-by--oh, good-
by. I feel as though I ought to ask you to forgive me." "For what?" "Oh, I don't
know," she said, "but--no--I don't know; but you do understand that I couldn't
stay away when she asked for me. She's the only person in the world, except you,
that I--that ever-- Good-by!" There was a moment of hesitation which, later, in
the recollection of it, thrilled them both. Then the cabman had the
satisfaction, such as it was, of seeing one of his fares raise to his lips the
fingers of the other. Then the knocker sounded softly, the heavy door opened and
received her into a warmly lamp-lit hall, closed again, and left him alone. When
he reached Montague Street rain was falling and a chill wind blew. He had not
been expected and his rooms were dusty and disheveled. Intensely quiet, too;
through the roar of London far below one could almost hear the silence of these
deserted rooms where, day by day, while he had been out in the beautiful bright
world, the dim dust had slowly settled down. It was characteristic of him that
he lit a big fire and carried his bedding out and spread it in the growing glow
and warmth. "I'm not going to risk a cold in the head at this crisis of my
affairs," he told himself, "even if she doesn't care--and Heaven knows how she
can! I needn't make myself a ridiculous and disgusting object in her eyes." To
the same end he set the kettle on the fire and made hot coffee for himself.
When, at last, he turned into well-aired sheets he found that he could not
sleep. "Confound the coffee!" he said, and tried to attribute to that brown
exotic elixir the desperate sense of futility and emptiness which possessed him.
His mind assured him that there was nothing the matter with him but coffee; but
his heart said: "You won't see her in the morning. You won't spend the day with
her to-morrow, nor the next day, nor the next." And his heart cursed the mock
marriage and all the reservations and abstentions that it demanded. "If she had
been really my wife--" If she had been really his wife he would have called
three times a day to know how things were with her. He would have seen her, held
her hands, felt again the confiding droop of her head on his shoulder. But as it
was-- She had consented to the mock marriage, he knew, because she did not
desire to give him any rights, not even the right to ring at her aunt's front
door and ask for Mrs. Basingstoke. He fell asleep at last, and dreamed that they
had taken an unfurnished flat in a neolithic cave and that he had killed a bear
and was dragging it home to show her. The bear seemed to be not quite dead, for
it was growling, and its weight on his back awoke him, to find that Charles had
thought his master's shoulders a convenient site for slumber. He sleepily had it
out with Charles, and when he slept again he dreamed that he and she had decided
to live in a captive balloon. She was already installed, but he could find no
ladder long enough to reach her. She was laughing down at him and showering pink
rose-leaves on his up-turned face when he woke to find Charles conscientiously
licking his ears. This time he found energy to get up and put a closed door
between himself and Charles, and then he dreamed that he had arranged to meet
her under the clock at Charing Cross Station, and that the Government had just
decided to establish uniformity in railway stations, and had called every
station Charing Cross, and had, moreover, furnished each station with six
hundred and sixty-six clocks, which all ticked louder than Big Ben. He awoke,
and it was morning, and there were no clocks ticking, but from beyond the door
came the measured thump-thump-thump of Charles's tail on the floor of the
sitting-room. So all night he had dreamed of her, yet never once seen her. "If I
believed in omens--" he said, and rang, to make known his return to the people
of the house. While his sitting-room was being put in order he went down to
Covent Garden and came back with his arms full of roses and white lilies, which
he set up in mugs and pots of Grès de Flandre and old brass and green Bruges
ware. "I wish you'd only 'a' told me, sir," said his landlady, kindly but
aggrieved. "I wouldn't have had you come home and find the place all of a mess
like this, not for a pound, I wouldn't. But you never wrote nor nothing, and the
dust it do incriminate so. But if you're going out for the day I'll make it all
as clean as a whistle by this evening. It's a twelve-hour job, so it is. If I'd
only known you was to be expected." "But you didn't know," said Edward, "and
it's not going to be a twelve-hour job, but a two-hour job. I'll go out for two
hours, and when I come back I sha'n't know the place, shall I? You'll work like
a good fairy. I know you." "Go on with you, sir," she advised. "You will have
your joke." "I was never more serious. You see, a lady might call." He voiced in
words what he had not dared to voice in his heart. "Oh, if it's a lady," said
the landlady--and through the tired, ridged, gray, London face something pretty
and immortally young stirred and sparkled--"_the_ young lady, sir, if I might
make so bold?" "You've hit it, Mrs. Jilks," he said--"_the_ lady. If she comes
before I come back--but I don't think she will--beg her to wait and say I'll be
back by noon. Come on, Charles." He went and sat in Regents Park and tried to
fancy himself once more in the deep peace of the Welsh Hills till Charles had a
difference of opinion with a Cocker spaniel and dreams were set to flight. He
went back, hoping against hope that he might find her there. She was not there,
nor did she come. Why should she? In the middle of the afternoon came a letter;
it had no beginning. It said:

I had a stiff and stifling interview with my aunt--the       one Charles came to
life under the knees of in the       cart. She was as horrid as any one could
possibly be. She reproached me for marrying a pauper, and said I'd       better
have stuck to the piano-tuner unless you were       he in disguise! I was as
dumb as a mule--indeed, I       almost felt my ears beginning to lie back, as
mules'       ears do when they've decided they aren't going to,       whatever
it is. Presently I got it out of her that       Aunt Alice's attack is very
serious. If she gets over       it she's to go to Switzerland; there's an old
school       friend out there that she loves, and who wants       frightfully to
have her there. So then I shall be       able to come back, and we'll go out
together again and       see the world. You won't worry about me, will you?
Because this house is quite the lap of. And you know       that I wouldn't have
broken off our mock-wedding tour       for anything in the world except for her
--because . . . but you know all that. Give my love to Charles. "Yours
sincerely" was crossed out, and a postscript added:

I don't know how to end this letter. I won't end it. I'll just put something at
the end to show that this       isn't the end--of our times together, I mean.
(To be continued.) He thought it the prettiest, wittiest ending in the world.
His room was neat as a new pin, as Mrs. Jilks had promised. The roses and the
lilies made it what Mrs. Jilks called a perfect bower. "Any one could tell," she
assured him, "that it was _the_ young lady you was expecting. Why, it's like a
wedding already! She's sure to come soon, sir, and I'll have the kettle on the
boil and make her a nice cup of tea the minute she comes." But she did not come,
and he had the nice cup of tea alone, unless you count Charles, who ate seven
large doughnuts--seven for sixpence--in seven great gulps--with no resultant
modification of his natural high spirits. Another day went by, and another, and
she did not come. Edward realized that she would not come, and that he had been
a fool ever to half hope that she would. He drugged the empty hours with
shopping. He wandered about London buying things--the oddest things. He bought a
pair of cut-crystal lusters and the skin of a leopard, a _papier-mâché_ fire-
screen and a string of amber beads six feet long. He sent the amber to her in a
sandalwood box cunningly carved and inlaid with ivory and ebony and silver. That
was on the first day. Her second letter thanked him for it:

How did you know that yellow was my fortunate color? I       was born under the
sign of the lion, so a       fortune-teller told me, so all yellow stones are
lucky       for me. I am so sorry that you have to be in London in       the
summer. Wouldn't you like to go into the country? Auntie is a little better. So
then he went out and bought the topaz brooch that he had thought of buying when
he first saw it in that jolly little shop in Vigo Street. And he sent her that
with the topaz necklace he had bought in Warwick. They are beautiful [she wrote]
and I love them, but       you are not to be extravagant. I should like to write
you a long letter, but auntie gets restless if I'm not       sitting beside her.
She's really getting better, but       I'm afraid it will be several weeks . . .
and she keeps       asking me not to leave her. I wish I could ask you to
come here, to see me. There are lots of odd minutes,       when she's asleep.
But my other aunt would certainly       be hateful to you--and I couldn't stand
that. Again and again he asked himself why he had promised, voluntarily
promised, not to call at the house. What had he been thinking of? He had been
thinking of her, of course; he had wanted to make things easy for her. He had at
least made them very hard for himself. He missed her every hour of the day; he
would not have believed that he could have missed anything so much. The time
crawled by; the hours were long and the days interminable. Even buying things--a
luxury in which he allowed himself considerable latitude--could not possess the
empty spaces in a life that had been filled with her presence. And to her,
moving gently in the curtained stillness of the sick-room, among the medicine-
bottles and the apparatus of sickness as the rich know it, holding the thin hand
that came out of a scented, soft bed to cling to hers, it seemed that either
this ordered quietude was a dream, or else that nothing in the last few weeks
was true, had been true, could ever be true again. The escape, the flight, the
Medway days, the reckless mock marriage, the life of fine and delicate
adventure, the blue sky, the green leaves, the mystery of mountains, the sparkle
of water, and the velvet of old lawns, the constant and deepening comradeship of
a man of whose existence a month ago she had not so much as dreamed--could these
be real--all these which she had renounced to come to the sick woman who longed
for her--had these really been hers--could they ever be hers again? Suffering
had broken down the consistent unselfishness of a lifetime, and the aunt clung
to her as children cling, frightened in the dark. "You won't leave me," she
said, over and over again. "Your husband won't mind. It won't be for long." "Of
course I'll not leave you," she said, and wondered at the thrill her aunt's
words gave her and the pang she felt as she uttered her own. Every day while the
aunt slept she crept away and went out into the air--the first day into bright
sunshine which was unbearable; after that into the quiet, lamp-lit dusk of the
square at night. The London night was so unlike night on the Welsh Hills that it
seemed a medium that could not torment her with memories. Whereas the sunshine
was the same sunshine which had lain like a benediction in that far country of
delight. The lilacs and snowberries in the square inclosure, which were dried
and dusty by day, borrowed from the kindly twilight the air of fresh groves, and
among their somber shadows she walked as in some garden of dusky enchantments,
where, alone with her dreams and her memories, she could weave, out of the past
and the future, a web of glory to clothe the cold walls of the empty room which,
she began to perceive, life without Edward was, and must be. It was on the third
evening, as she stood, fumbling with the key of the garden, she knew that some
one stood on the pavement just behind her, and, turning sharply, was face to
face with Mr. Schultz. He raised his hat and smiled at her; held out a hand,
even. She was child enough to put her two hands behind her, and woman enough to
hope that he hated to see her do it. She was surprised to find herself alert and
alive to the interest of the encounter; not afraid at all, only interested. Gone
was the panic terror which had overwhelmed her in the Kenilworth dungeon. Anger
and resentment remained, but stronger than either was curiosity, so she stood
with her hands behind her, looking at him. "Oh, very well," he said; "just as
you like. I want a few words with you." "I don't want to talk to you," she said,
and locked the square gate again. "Couldn't we walk around the garden once or
twice?" he asked. "I know you don't want to talk to me, but I want to talk to
you. I'm sorry if I upset you that day in the ruins, but it's nothing to the way
your dog upset me. I had to have it cauterized, besides doing completely for the
only decent suit I had with me. Besides, you hit me, you know, with your
parasol. Come, don't bare malice. I don't. Call it quits and open the square
door." Now you may think it was quite easy for her to turn her back on Mr.
Schultz and go back to her aunt's house, leaving him planted there, but it was
not really easy, because she wanted something of the man, and if she turned her
back with sufficient firmness it might be that she would never see him again.
What she wanted was the remission of the promise she had made him, unasked and
of her own initiative--the promise that she would not tell Edward of that day in
the dungeon. "I can't open the square gate for you," she said. "If you've really
anything to say, you can say it here. I can spare you three minutes," she added,
conclusively. "Then let's walk around outside the railings. It's better than
standing here; it won't look so odd if any one comes along who knows you," he
said, and it seemed strange to her that he should have so much consideration for
her. She was pleased. Her soul was of the order that delights to find others
better than her mind had led her to expect. There are people, as you know, to
whom it is always somewhat of a disappointment to find that any one is not so
black as their fancy painted him. She turned and they walked slowly along the
pavement that encircles the railings of the square garden. "Well?" she said,
"you said you had something to say to me." "Yes, lots," he told her. "I was just
trying to think which to say first. You know you've upset me a good deal. Oh, I
forgive you, but it ought to be mutual. Yes, I'll put that first--I want us to
forgive each other--forgive and forget and not bear grudge." "Very well," she
said, coldly. "I forgive you, but--"

He interrupted her before she could make the request that was on her lips.
"That'll do," he said. "Now, if you don't mind, I'm going to tell you how it was
that I acted like a fool. I admit I acted like a fool," he added, handsomely. "I
don't suppose I shall ever see you again and I don't want you to go on thinking
me a perfect beast. I'd rather you didn't, though I know I was one that day, and
I don't know why, but I would, even if I'm never to set eyes on you again. Well,
you see, it's like this: I dare say it'll sound silly to you, but even when I
was at school I always wanted to do something noble--romantic, you know--
rescuing ladies in distress, like Scott's novels, and things like that. I know
it's too rotten for words, nowadays, what with machinery and telegraphs and
radium and things, but that's what I used to think. And when I came up with you
on the Seaford Road with no hat on and your poor little satin shoes all dusty
and splitting, I thought, by Jove! my boy, here's your chance! And I did behave
all right that day, didn't I?" His voice was wistful, and she said, eagerly:
"You were very, very kind. No one could have been nicer and more--more--"

"Respectful, eh? Well, I meant to be. I felt respectful; I do still. And you
won't mind me saying I felt like a knight and you were the lady. I don't mean
that you aren't a lady now, but you see what I mean, and you can't blame me if I
thought it would all end in me and you being--well--you and me living happy ever
after, the same as they do in books." Enchanted by the revelation, she said,
"Indeed, I don't blame you," more earnestly than she meant to do. "Don't be too
kind to me," he said, grimly. "I know it doesn't mean anything, but it puts a
man out. Well, then _he_ came along, and you said he was your brother, and
anybody could see with half an eye that he wasn't your brother; and I felt I'd
been made a fool of, a complete, particular, first-class fool, and that put my
back up. And I saw that things don't happen like they do in books. And I hadn't,
somehow, thought you'd say anything that wasn't true." She felt her face burn,
and realized for the first time that in their brief and stormy acquaintance he
had not been the only one to blame, and that, anyhow, it was she who had taken
the first false step. "I oughtn't to have told you a lie," she said, and added
ingenuously, "especially after you'd been so kind; but I didn't know what to do
--it seemed so difficult to explain." She could not tell him how difficult, nor
why. "Oh, that's all right," he said. "I should have said the same myself. It
wasn't exactly a lie. It's a thing most people wouldn't make any bones about,
only I thought you were different, that's all. And that was one of the things
that made me feel it was fair to hunt you down, if I could--tit for tat, so to
speak--and, besides, it was fun trying to see what I _could_ find out. Then
there's another thing I must tell you, I used to think it would be fun to be
other things out of books--highwaymen and detectives and things--and I got a
lead when I saw you at Cookham. After that I tracked you down like any old
Sherlock Holmes, and I'm afraid at Kenilworth I behaved more like a highwayman
than a respectable solicitor--for that's what I am." "That's forgiven and
forgotten," she told him. "Well, I tracked you to Warwick, and when I saw your
name in the visitors' book--Mr. and Mrs. Basingstoke--"

"But it wasn't--"

"It was, I assure you. Well, when I saw that I didn't know what to think, but I
saw, however it was, it was all up with me; but I didn't want to see it, so I
followed you to Kenilworth, and got a chance I didn't expect to behave like a
cad and an ass, and behaved like them. But I don't think you know how pretty you
are--and I didn't believe you were married, and all the things I'd thought while
I was driving you to Tunbridge came up into my head and turned themselves inside
out, somehow, and I felt what a fool I'd been, and I lost my head. And then you
told me you wouldn't tell him, for fear he should hurt me; and that's really
what I came here to say. That's what I can't stick. I can take care of myself. I
want you to tell him anything you like--see? Here's my card--and he can write to
me, and I'll meet him anywhere he likes and let's see who's the best man. To set
out to be a knight and all that, and end up with hiding behind a woman--and you
to be the woman--no, I really can't stick it. So will you tell him?" "I'll tell
him everything," she said, "and he won't want to see who's the best man, and I
don't want him to want it. And I don't want you to, either. You were a very kind
knight-errant--but you weren't such a very good detective, or you'd have found
out--"

"What?" "I'll tell you, if you'll promise to give up wanting to find out who's
the best man. Will you?" "I'll do anything you like as long as you don't think
I'm afraid of him, and don't let him think it, either. I don't think much of
him, and I don't know whether you'll believe it, but it was that as much as
anything set me to the detective business. I wanted to--to--I thought you wanted
looking after. And then I acted like a brute--but I won't go on about that. Now
tell me what it was I didn't find out?" She pulled a little pale-silk bag from
her pocket and took out a stiff folded paper and gave it to him. By the light of
the next gas-lamp he unfolded it; it was a long slip, partly printed, partly
written. It was, in fact, the "marriage certificate" which had been obtained in
order to quiet her family and to make possible the romance and adventure of the
incredible honeymoon. He glanced at it, folded it, and gave it back. "Thank
you," he said. "I don't want to try who's the best man. He is. He's got you."
She could find nothing to say that should be at once true and kind. "So that's
all over," he said, straightening his shoulders. "There's only one thing more.
You remember I went out to see about the car at Tunbridge, and I was rather a
long time gone? Well, I rushed into a shop and bought this. I meant to throw it
over Westminster Bridge as soon as I left you--but now, will you take it for a
wedding-present? I'd like you to." He fumbled at a spring, opened a case, and
showed a half-hoop of sapphires. "But I can't! It's too--"

"I'm _awfully_ rich," he said, bitterly. "I've come into my father's business at
Canterbury. I don't know what to do with my money, and the thing didn't cost
much, really, but it was the best I could get. You believe that, don't you? And
I thought it might be the beginning of living happy ever after, and I should
like you to have it, just to show you really have forgiven me. You will, won't
you?" "I can't take the ring," she said, "but I wish I could, and I thank you
very much for wishing me to have it--and for all your kindness and your kind
thoughts of me." "But you won't take the ring. He said you wouldn't." "Who did?"
"My confessor. You see, I'm a Catholic, and I had to tell him about Kenilworth,
and so I told him the whole thing. If it hadn't been for him I shouldn't have
tried to tell you about it all and get you to forgive me. I'm glad I did,
though." Then she understood, and ceased to wonder how this man had got his
poor, complicated, involved little history straightened out to such a convincing
simplicity. "I wish you'd have had the ring," he said again, discontentedly. "I
never know what to do with my money." "If I had a lot of money I'd go about the
world trying to be a real knight-errant--just looking out for people who want
things and don't ask for them--poor, proud, self-respecting people, poor
schoolmasters and young men in shops who don't have good times. There was a man
in a book who thought he was ill, and his doctor told him to help one person a
day with his money. He got cured in no time; and you're not ill."

"I shouldn't know how to begin," he said. "You could have shown me, but you
won't. Look here, don't go yet; stay a little and tell me how to begin." Walking
around and around the railings of the garden, she developed her thesis. They had
been walking together for an hour and a half before they parted on her door-
step, and at parting she did give him her hand. In the hall she stood a minute
or two, thinking. Then she slipped quietly out again and took an omnibus to
Museum Street, and from there walked to Montague Street. She felt that the only
important thing was to see Edward, to clear away the one cloud of concealment
that lay between them--no, not the only one. The other was a very little thing;
he, at least, had never known that it was there. But when she reached number 37
it showed no light at any of its windows; only the basement window and the
fanlight above the door gave out a dusky radiance. It seemed impossible to ring
the bell and be faced with the assurance that he was not at home. So she walked
slowly away. And behind drawn curtains in the flower-scented, flower-bright room
Charles stirred restlessly, and Edward, also restless, was saying, "I could
almost believe that she would come to-night, now. All the rest of the time I
have known in my heart that she would not come, but now, for the first time, it
seems possible." But the hours wore on and still he and the flowers and Charles
were alone together. XIX

HURSTMONCEAUX

THE sky was gray; gray mists veiled the sea and wisps of sea-fog lay in the
hollows of the downs. The young morning had not yet decided whether it meant to
be, when it was a grown-up day, a very wet day, when your umbrella is useless
and you give it up and make up your mind to be wet through and change as soon as
you get home; or a very fine day, one of those radiant, blazing days that are
golden to the very end, days when you almost forget it ever has rained, and find
it hard to believe that it will ever rain again. It was one of those mornings
whose development is as darkly hid as the future of any babe smiling at you from
its cradle and defying you to foresee whether it will grow up to be a great
criminal or a great saint. If you love the baby, and trim its cradle with hopes
and dreams, you will find it hard to believe that the darling can grow up just
nobody in particular, like the rest of us. To Edward, lying at his long length
on the short turf and looking out to the opalescent mist that hid the sea, it
was not possible to believe that this day of all days could be anything but very
good or very bad. The elements must be for him or against him, must help or
hinder. That they could be indifferent was unthinkable. For this was the day of
days, come, at last, after weeks of a waiting that had not been patient, the day
when he should, indeed, and not in dreams, see her again. This was the thought,
insistent, even in his sleep, that had at last broken up that sleep, as a
trickle of water breaks up the embankment of a reservoir, letting out the deep
floods inclosed by that barrier, the deep flood of pent-up longing which sleep
could no longer restrain from consciousness. So he had got up and come out to
look over the sea and think of her. Her letters made a bulge in his coat pocket;
he pulled them out--a fat little bundle secured by an elastic band--and he read:

It is strange that you should have been expecting to       see me just then,
because just then I really had come       as far as the door of your house--only
everything was       dark except for a murky star of gas that had been
turned down in the hall. So I told myself that you       weren't there, and I
didn't want to be told so by any       one else, and I went home. I like your
letter; I like       it very, very much, but it makes me see how stupid and
selfish I have been to let you stay in London in the       summer-time, waiting
all the time for some one who       never comes. And I want you to go away,
right into the       country, and I'll write to you as soon as Aunt Alice
goes abroad. She is very, very much better. It won't       be long now. A week,
perhaps? Two weeks? Go away where       it is green and glorious, and I shall
think of you all       the time and wish myself where you are. At first when I
read your letter I thought that I must       see you just once before you go
away. But now I see       that I won't see you. If I were to see you it would
not really make anything any easier. And nothing is       very easy, as it is.
You understand, don't you? He hoped he did understand. If he understood, her
letter meant the beginning of the end of the incredible honeymoon. For he dared
to read the letter as he desired to read it, and where she had written, "If I
were to see you it would not really make anything easier, and nothing is very
easy," he had read, "If I were to see you I should find it too hard to part from
you again," and next moment cursed himself for a presumptuous fool. What was he
that the gods should now and thus renew to him an assurance that had once been
his for a few magic hours, in the wild night-rush of a London-bound train, when
the air was scented with the roses of dreams and the lady of all dreams slept
upon his shoulder? For in those long and lonely days, in his London lodging,
that assurance had dwindled, shriveled, faded to a maddening incertitude; the
whole splendid pageant of his days had faded and shrunk to the pale substance of
a vision. Presumptuous or not, foolish or wise, the meaning which her letter
might have revived his spirit, as the sweet air of dawn revives a man who comes
out of a darkened prison to meet the waxing light and the first twitter of the
newly awakened birds. He had written:

I will go away--I will go away to the sea and wait       there for you. You are
right, as always. If I am not       to see you it is less intolerable not to be
near you. I hardly dare to read in your letter what I wish you       could have
meant me to read. But I warn you that when       once I have you again I shall
never let you go. She had not answered that, though she had written every day,
little, friendly, intimate notes, telling him of every day's little happenings
and what were to be the happenings of the morrow. She told him, at last, that
the aunt was really going, and when. She wrote:

The aunts are going to Scotland and I shall be left to       see Aunt Alice off,
and then, when she is gone, I will       write and make an assignation with my
friend and       comrade, and we will go back to the good, green       country.
It won't be all different, will it? People       meet again after years and
don't recognize each other. I suppose they have been changing, changing a little
bit every day. Do you think we shall have       changed--contrariwise? You one
way and I the other, I       mean, so that when we do meet we sha'n't be the
same? The last letter of all was the shortest. "Monday," it said at the top of
its page, and then:

Auntie leaves Folkestone to-morrow by the morning       boat. I will let you
know where to find me. Would       Thursday suit you, in the afternoon? He had
felt no doubt as to that. Thursday would not suit him--but Tuesday would--and
not the afternoon, but the morning. Had she really thought that he would wait
two days? And now, lying on the turf, he read her letters through and laid his
face down on the last and dreamed a little, with closed eyes; and when he lifted
his head again the mist had grown thin as a bridal veil and the sun was plain to
be seen, showing a golden face above the sea, where a million points of light
gleamed like tinsel through a curtain of gossamer. The air was warmer, the scent
of the wild thyme sweeter and stronger, and overhead, in the gray that was
growing every moment clearer and bluer, the skylarks were singing again. "I
knew," said Edward, as he went down toward the town where the smoke of the newly
lighted fires rose straight from the chimneys--"I knew it couldn't have the
heart not to be fine, on this day of all days." He went back to his hotel and
inspected once more certain of the purchases he had made since her decree had
banished him from London. Resisting a momentary impulse toward asceticism in the
matter of breakfast, as an outward and visible testimony to the unimportance of
material things at such a time as this, he found himself at the other end of the
pendulum's swing, ordering just such a meal as he would have ordered had she
been with him, and ate his grape-fruit and omelette and delicately browned fish
with thoughtful appreciation, making of them a banquet in her honor. He toasted
her in the coffee, and, as he ate, romance insisted that it was not himself, but
her man, whom he was treating to that perfectly served breakfast; and common
sense added, "Yes, and no man's at his best if he's hungry." Before he reached
the marmalade he had come to regard that impulse to tea and toast as a man might
regard a vanished temptation to alcoholic excess. "A hungry man's only half a
man--the bad-tempered half," he said, lighting his first cigarette, and
strolling out into the sunny inn-yard, where a hostler with a straw in his mouth
was busy with a bucket of water and a horse's legs; a pleasanter man, Edward
thought, than the other man there, busy with oil and petrol and cotton-waste and
a very new motor-car. "I wish motors had never been invented," he told himself.
All the same, when the hour-glass of time had let through the last grain of the
space of their separation, and a pale girl withdrew her eyes from the speck of a
boat growing smaller and smaller on a sea that sparkled so brilliantly that you
could hardly look at it, and almost listlessly turned to walk back alone to her
hotel, she was confronted with a very pale young man standing beside a very new
motor-car. "You!" she said, and, as once before, the blood rushed to her face,
and his to his, answering. This was the moment for which he had lived for weeks
--and they shook hands like strangers! She was grave and cold. What would her
first words be? "But I said Thursday," she said. He looked like a criminal
detected in a larceny. "_I_ said Tuesday," he told her. "Do you mind?" In his
anticipations of this moment he had always counted on a mutual wave of gladness
in their reunion, in which all doubts should be resolved and all explanations be
easy. Now, he himself felt awkward as a school-boy. And he noted in her a quite
inexplicable restraint and embarrassment, although she was certainly saying that
she did not mind, and that it did not matter at all. "Where were you going?" he
asked, mechanically, just for something to say as they stood there by the motor,
jostled by all the people who had been seeing other people off. "To my hotel, to
pack and to write to you, as I said I would." "Shall I go away and wait for the
letter?" he asked, feeling that tea and toast would have done well enough. "No.
Don't be silly!" she said. Now that the flush had died from her face he saw that
it was paler and thinner. She saw in him a curious hardness. It was one of those
moments when the light of life has gone out and there is nothing to be said that
is not futile and nothing to be done that is of any use. "It's a new car!" she
said. "Yours?" "Yes," he answered. She wore a silky, soft-brown, holland-colored
dress and a white hat with some black velvet about it and a dark rose. A wine-
colored scarf fluttered about her, and in spite of her paleness and thinness she
was more beautiful than ever and far more dear. "Do you like the car?" he added,
stupidly. "Very much," she said, without so much as glancing at it. She looked
up. "Well, what are we going to do?" she asked, almost crossly. "Whatever you
like." "Oh, dear!" her voice was plaintive. "You must have had _some_ idea or
you wouldn't have come to-day instead of Thursday. Hadn't you any idea, any
scheme, any plan?" "Yes," he said, "but it does not matter; I'll do anything you
say." "Oh, well," she said, "if you won't tell me your plans--" and she sketched
the gesture of one who turns away and goes on her way alone. "But I will," he
said, quickly. Yet still he spoke like a very stupid child saying a lesson which
it does not quite know. "I will tell you--I thought if you liked the car we
might just get in and drive off--"

"Where?" "Oh, just anywhere," he said, and hastened to add, "but I see now how
silly it was. Of course I ought to have written and explained. Surprises are
always silly, aren't they?" And he felt as one who sits forlorn and feels the
cold winds blow through the ruined arches of a castle in Spain. He had not read
her letter as she had meant him to read it. Everything was different. Perhaps,
after all, she did not--never had--he had deceived himself, like the fatuous
fool he was. "I ought to have thought," he blundered. "Of course you would not
care to go motoring in that beautiful gown--and that hat--that makes you look
like the Gardener's Daughter--'a sight to make an old man young'"--he added,
recovering a very little--"and no coat! But I did buy a coat." He leaned over
and pulled out of the car a mass of soft brown fur lined with ermine. "Though,
of course, it would have been better to ask you to choose one--I expect it's all
wrong," and he heaved up the furry folds half-heartedly, without looking at her.
"I just thought you might not have thought of getting one . . ." and his voice
trailed away into silence, a silence that hers did not break. Slowly she put out
her hand and touched the fur, still without speaking. Then he did look at her,
and suddenly the light of life sprang up again and the world was illumined from
end to end. For her face that had been pale was pink as the wild rose is pink,
and her mouth that had been sad was smiling; in her eyes was all, or almost all,
that he had hoped to see there when, at last, after this long parting they
should meet; and her hand was stroking the fur as if she loved it. "It's the
most beautiful coat in the world," she said, and her voice, like her face, was
transfigured. She turned her shoulders to him that he might lay the coat on
them, slipped her arms into the sleeves, and wheeled to confront him, her face
alight with a mingled tenderness and gaiety that turned him, for a moment, faint
and giddy. "You really like it, Princess?" he faltered. "I love it," she made
answer; "and now, my lord, will you take me in your nice new motor-car to my
unworthy hotel, that I may pay my miserable bill and secure my despicable
luggage? Even a princess, you know, can't go to the world's end without a pair
of slippers, a comb, and a clean pocket-handkerchief." With that she was in the
car, and he followed, gasping, in the sudden wave of enchantment that had
changed the world. What had happened? Why had she suddenly changed? How had the
cloud vanished? Whence had the cloud arisen? His heart, or his vanity, or both,
had been too bruised by the sudden blow to recover all in a minute. His brain,
too, was stunned by the lack of any reason in what had happened. Why had she not
been glad to see him? Why had she so suddenly turned from a cold stranger to her
very self? What had worked the bad magic? Not, surely, the sight of a friend two
days before she expected that sight? What had worked the good magic? It was not
thinkable that any magic at all could be worked by a fur coat or even by the
foresight that had provided it. His mind busied itself with such questions and
felt no pain in them because it knew that his heart held in reserve, to be
contemplated presently, the glorious fact that the good magic had, somehow, been
wrought. But he would not call his heart into court yet. So that it was in
silence that he drove through the steep streets. His own slight luggage was
already at the back of the car, and when hers was added to it and they had left
the town behind he still said nothing but the few words needed to such little
matters as the disposing of the luggage and the satisfying of the hotel porter.
And when all the tall, stuccoed houses were left behind and they were rushing
smoothly through the fresh morning, with the green sea on one side and the green
marshland on the other, still he did not speak and kept his eyes on the white
ribbon of road unrolling itself before him. It was just as they passed the third
Martello tower that her hand crept under his arm. He took his from the steering-
wheel for a moment to lay it on hers, and after that his heart had its way, and
the silence, though still unbroken, was no longer the cloak for anxious
questionings, but the splendid robe of a tender, tremulous joy. They sped on;
through Dymchurch, where the great sea-wall is, and where the houses are built
lower than the sea, so that the high tide laps against the sea-wall level with
the bedroom windows of the little houses that nestle behind its strong shelter.
It was she who spoke then. "Isn't it a dear little place?" she said. "Wouldn't
you like to live in a Martello tower? They have one beautiful big room with a
Norman-looking pillar in the middle, and a down-stairs part for kitchens, and an
up-stairs, where the big gun is, that you could roof in for bedrooms. I should
like a Martello! Don't you want to buy one? You know they built them to keep out
Napoleon--and the canal as well--but no one uses them now. They just keep
fishing-nets in them and wheelbarrows and eel-spears." "Let's buy the haunted
one," he said, and hoped that his voice was steady, for it was not of haunted
towers that he desired to speak. "A soldier's ghost walks there; the village
people say 'it's one of them there Roman soldiers that lived here when them
towers was built in old ancient Roman times.'" She laughed. "You know Dymchurch,
then? Isn't it nice when people know the same places? Almost as nice as it is
when they've read the same books." But the silence was not broken, only lifted.
Her hand crept a little farther into the crook of his arm. It was as they passed
the spick-and-span white-painted windmill at New Romney that he said: "Don't you
think it would be nicer to buy a windmill? There are four stories to that, and
you can shift the top one around so that your window's always away from the
wind." "Yes," she said, "we really ought to buy a windmill." The "we" lay warm
at his heart until they came near Rye that stands upon its hill, looking over
the marshes to the sea that deserted it so many years ago. "There's a clock in
Rye church that Sir Walter Raleigh presented to the town," he said,
instructively. "And Henry James lived there," said she. "Shall we have lunch at
the Mermaid Tavern? Or would you rather have a picnic? I've got a basket." "How
clever of you! Of course we'll have the picnic. And it's quite early. How
beautifully the car is going!" "Yes, isn't she?" "Has she a name yet?" "No. You
must christen her." "I should call her Time, because she flies so fast." "You'd
have to particularize. All time doesn't fly." "No," she said, "ah, no! And she
ought to have a splendid sort of name, she is so magnificently triumphant over
space and time. Raleigh would have called her the 'Gloriana.'" "So will we,"
said he. And they left Rye behind, and again the silence folded them round, and
still her hand lay close in the crook of his arm. At Winchelsea she suddenly
asked, "Where's Charles?" "Charles," he said, gravely, "is visiting my old
nurse. He is well and happy--a loved and honored guest." "The dear!" she said,
absently. They were nearing Hastings before he spoke again, almost in a whisper,
and this time what he said was what he meant to say. "Are you happy?" he asked.
And she said, "Yes!" It was at Hurstmonceaux that they opened the picnic basket
--Hurstmonceaux, the great ruined Tudor castle, all beautiful in red brick and
white stone. Less than a hundred years ago it was perfect to the last brick of
it. But its tall old twisted red chimneys smoked. So a Hastings architect was
called in. "I cannot cure your smoky chimneys, sir," said he, "but with the lead
and some of the bricks of your castle I can build you a really comfortable and
convenient modern house in the corner of your park, and I pledge you my word as
an architect that the chimneys of the new house sha'n't smoke." So he did, and
they didn't. And Hurstmonceaux was turned from a beautiful house to a beautiful
ruin, and no one can live there; but parties of sightseers and tourists can be
admitted on Mondays and Thursdays for a fee of sixpence a head, children half-
price. All of which she read to him from the _Guide to Sussex_, as they sat in
the grass-grown courtyard, where moss and wild flowers have covered the mounds
of fallen brick. "But this isn't Monday or Thursday," she said. "How did you get
in?" "You saw--with the big key, the yard of cold iron. I got special leave from
the owner--for this." "How very clever of you! How much better than anything _I_
could have arranged." "Approbation from Sir Hubert Stanley," he said, drawing
the cork of the Rüdesheimer. "I do hope you _really_ like lobster salad." "And
chicken and raspberries and cream, and everything. I like it all--and our
dining-room--it's the most beautiful dining-room I ever had. I only thought of a
wood, or a field, or perhaps a river, for Thursday." "You did mean to have a
picnic for Thursday?" "Yes, but this is much better. It's a better place than I
could have found, and besides--"

"Besides--?" "It isn't Thursday." When luncheon, a merry meal and a leisurely,
was over, they leaned against a fallen pillar and rested their eyes on the
beauty of green floor, red walls, and the blue sky roofing all. And above the
skylarks sang. "There's nothing between us now," he said, contentedly--"no
cloud, no misunderstanding." "No," she answered, "and I don't want there ever to
be anything between us. So I'm going to tell you about Chester--the thing that
worried me and I couldn't tell. Do you remember?" "I think I do," he said,
grimly. "Only you must promise you won't be angry." "With you?" he asked,
incredulously. "No . . . with him . . . and you must try to believe that it is
true. No, of course not; I don't mean you're not likely to believe what _I_ say,
but what he said." "Please," he pleaded, "I'm a patient man, but. . . ." So she
told him the whole story of Mr. Schultz, and, at the end, waited for him to give
voice to the anger that, from the very touch of his hand on hers, she knew he
felt. But what he said was:

"It was entirely my fault. I ought never to have left you alone for an instant."
"You thought I was to be trusted," she said, a little bitterly, "and I couldn't
even stay where you left me. But you do believe what he said?" "I'll try to," he
answered. "After all, he needn't have said anything--and if _you_ believe it--
Look here, let's never think of him or speak of him again, will you? We agreed,
didn't we, that Mr. Schultz was only a bad dream, and that he never really
happened. And there's nothing now between us at all . . . no concealments?"
"There's one," she said, in a very small voice, "but it's so silly I don't think
I _can_ tell you." "Try," said he. "I could tell of the silliest things. And
after that there's one more thing I wish you'd tell me, if you can. You _are_
happy, aren't you? You are glad that we're together again?" "Yes," she said. "Oh
yes!" "And this morning you weren't?" "Oh, but I was, I was! It was only--
That's the silly thing I want to tell you. But you'll laugh." "It wasn't a
laughing matter to me." "I know I was hateful." "It was--bewildering. I couldn't
understand why everything was all wrong and then, suddenly, everything was all
right." "I know--I was detestable. I can't think how I could. But, you see, I
was disappointed. I meant to arrange for you to meet me at some very pretty
place and I was going to have a very pretty luncheon. I'd thought it all out . .
. and it was exactly the same as yours, almost, only I shouldn't have known the
name of the quite-perfect wine and, then . . . there you were, you know, and I
hadn't been able to make things nice for you." "Was that really all, my
Princess?" "Yes, that was all." "But still I don't understand why everything was
suddenly all right." "It was what you said. That made everything all right."
"What I said?" "You see, I meant it all to be as pretty as I could make it, and
I'd got a new dress, very, very pretty, and a new hat . . . and then you came
upon me, suddenly, in this old rag and last year's hat and scarf I only wore
because aunty gave them to me. And I felt caught, and defrauded, and . . . and
dowdy." "Oh, Princess!" "And then you said . . . you said you liked my dress . .
. so, then, it did not matter." It was then that he lifted her hand to hold it
against his face as once before he had held it, and silence wrapped them around
once more--a lovely silence, adorned with the rustle of leaves and grass and the
skylark's passionate song. XX

THE END

THE memory of luncheon died away and the picnic-basket, again appealed to,
yielded tea. They had explored the towers, and talked of Kenilworth, the
underground passages, and talked of the round tower of Wales. And half their
talk was, "Do you remember?" and, "Have you forgotten?" The early days of the
incredible honeymoon had been days of exploration, each seeking to discover the
secrets of that unknown land, each other's mind and soul; this day of reunion
was one gladly given over to the contemplation of the memories they had together
amassed. It was a day dedicated to the counting of those treasures of memory
which they now held in common, treasures among which this golden day itself
would, all too soon, have to be laid aside to be, for each of them, forever, the
chief jewel of that priceless treasury. It was when they were repacking the
picnic-basket that they first noticed how the color had gone out of the grass,
that was their carpet, and how the blue had faded from the sky, that was their
roof. The day had changed its mind, after all. Having been lovely in its youth
and glorious in its prime, it had, in its declining hours, fallen a prey to the
grayest melancholy and was now very sorry for itself indeed. "Oh dear!" said
she, "I do believe it's going to rain." Even as she spoke the first big tears of
the dejected day fell on the lid of the teapot. "We must hurry," he said,
briskly. "I can't have my princess getting wet through and catching cold in her
royal head. Run for it, Princess! Run to the big gateway!" She ran; he followed
with the basket, went out to cover the seats of his car with mackintosh rugs and
put up the hood, and came back, dampish, to discuss the situation. They told
each other that it was only a shower, that it couldn't possibly, as they put it,
have "set in." But it had; the landscape framed in the arch of the gateway lost
color moment by moment, even the yellow of the gorse was blotted and obscured;
the rain, which at first had fallen in a fitful, amateurish sort of way, settled
down to business and fell in gray, diagonal lines, straight and sharp as
ramrods. "And it's getting late," he said, "and your Highness will be hungry."
"We've only just had tea," she reminded him. "Ah, but we've got some way to go,"
he told her. "Where _are_ we going?" "I had thought," he said, "of going to a
place beyond Eastbourne; . . . my old nurse lives there. She's rather fond of
me; . . . she'll have gotten supper for us. I thought you'd like it. It's a
farm-house, rather a jolly one, and then I thought, if you liked, we could drive
back to the Eastbourne hotel by moonlight." "That would have been nice." "But
there won't be any moonlight. Perhaps we'd better go straight to the hotel."
"But your nurse will expect you." "I can telegraph." "But she'll be so
disappointed." "Why didn't I get a car that would shut up and be weather-tight?
The rain will drift under that hood like the deluge." She laughed. "A little
rain won't hurt us." "Your beautiful hat!" "I'll tie my ugly scarf around my
head and put my beautiful hat under the rug. Come, don't let us disappoint your
old nurse. No! It's not going to leave off; it's only taking breath to go on
harder than ever." It was said afterward that never, in the memory of the oldest
inhabitant, had there been such a storm of rain in those parts--rain without
thunder, rain in full summer, rain without reason and without restraint. The
rain drifted in, as he had said it would, and abruptly a wild wind arose and
tore at the hood of the car, flapped her scarf in her eyes, and whipped their
faces with sharp, stinging rain. He stopped at the village inn and brought her
out ginger-brandy in a little glass shaped like a thistle-flower, "to keep the
cold out." Also he went into the post-office and bought peppermint bull's-eyes,
"to keep us warm," he said. "How admirably fortunate that we both like
peppermint!" And the journey began in earnest, up hills that were torrents,
through hollows that were ponds, where the water splashed like a yellow frill
from their wheels as they rushed through it. One village street was like a
river, and the men were busy with spades, digging through the hedge-banks
channels by which the water might escape into the flooded fields. And so, along
through Pevensey, where the great Norman castle still stands gray and
threatening, through Eastbourne, like an ant-heap where the ants all use
umbrellas, and, at long last, out on to the downs. Her hands were ice-cold with
the rain and the effort of holding mackintosh rugs about herself and him. Her
hair was blown across her eyes, the lash of rain was on her lips. Breathless,
laughing for the joy of the wild rush through wind and water, they gained the
top of Friston Hill, where the tall windmill is, and the pond and the sign-post
and the small, gray, quiet church. And here, as suddenly as it had begun, the
rain ceased; the clouds drifted away. "As though some great tidy angel had swept
them up with his wings," said she. The sea showed again, gray with chalk stolen
from the cliffs, and white with the crests of waves left angry by the wind.
Under the frowning purple clouds in the west glowed a long line of sullen
crimson, and they went on along the down road in the peace of a clear,
translucent twilight. Below them, in a hollow, shone lights from a little house.
"Wasn't it somewhere here," she asked him, "that you left me and I didn't stay?"
"Yes," he said, "somewhere here." And then they had reached the house--not so
little, either, when you came close to it--and there were steady lights shining
through the lower windows, and, in the upper rooms, the fitful, soft glimmer of
firelight. The car stopped at the wooden gate from which a brick path led to the
front door, hospitably open, showing gleams of brass and old mahogany in a wide
hall paved with black-and-white checkered marble. He peeled the streaming
waterproof from her shoulders and gave her his hand for the descent. Side by
side they passed down the wet path between dripping flower-beds, but at the
threshold he stepped before her, entered the house, and turned to receive her.
"Welcome!" he said, caught her by the elbows, and lifted her lightly over the
threshold. "Why did you do that?" she asked, breathless and smiling through the
drift of wet, disordered tresses. "It's an old custom for welcoming a princess,"
he said. The old nurse came from the kitchen, rustling in stiff print and white
apron. "Oh, Master Edward, sir," she said, beaming, "I never thought you'd come
in all this rain, not even when I got the telegraph. Nicely, ma'am, thanking you
kindly and hoping you're the same," she said, in answer to the greeting and the
hand that the girl offered. "And your good lady, Master Edward, she must be wet
through, but I've got a lovely fire in her room, if you'll come along with me,
ma'am, and I'll bring up some hot water in two ticks." So now, after the wind
and the rain and the car, the girl finds herself in a long, low, chintz-
curtained room where a wood fire burns on an open hearth and a devoted nurse of
his is pulling off wet shoes and offering cups of tea and hot water. "And are
you quite sure there ain't nothing more I can do for you, ma'am, for I'm sure
it's a pleasure?" The girl, left alone at last, found herself wondering. He must
have felt very sure of her, surely, to have brought her thus to his nurse, as if
. . . as if their marriage had been a real marriage, like other people's. "Well,
and why shouldn't he be sure of me?" she asked herself. "I'm sure of him, thank
God!" The appointments about her were so charming, all so perfectly in keeping
with one another and with the room that held them, that she found herself making
a comfortable, complete, and ceremonious toilette. She had with her, by a
fortunate accident, as she told herself, a dress of soft, cream-colored India
muslin, fine as gauze. But when she looked at herself in the glass she said,
"Too white . . . it's like a wedding-dress," and sought for some color to
mitigate the dress's bridal simplicity. There was no scarf that quite stifled
criticism, but there was the Burmese coat, long and red, with gold-embroidered
hems a foot deep. She slipped it over the white gown and was satisfied. She
thought of the morning when she had last worn the Burmese coat, and "He liked
the red rose," she said, as she put it on. When she was dressed she sat down in
the great arm-chair before the fire and rested, tasting the simple yet perfect
luxury of it all. She did not know how long she sat there, and reverie had
almost given place to dreaming when a tap at the door aroused her. She opened
it. Edward stood there. "Shall we go down to supper?" he said, exactly as though
they had been at a dance. And, indeed, they might have been at a dance, as far
as their dress went, except that he wore a dinner-jacket in place of the tail-
coat which dances demand. He offered his arm, and she took it and they went
together down the shallow, wide, polished, uncarpeted stairs on which the lamps
from the corridor above threw the shadows of the slender, elegant balustrades.
"What a beautiful house!" she said. "And how nice of you to make yourself pretty
for supper!" "Well, we had to change into something, and I won't attack you with
the obvious rejoinder. But you'll let me say, won't you, that you're like a
princess in a fairy-tale? Did your fairy godmother give you a hundred dresses at
your christening, each one more beautiful than the other?" "She gave me
something," the girl answered--"a secret amulet. It's invisible, but it brings
me good fortune. It's brought me here," she added, "where everything is perfect.
My room's lovely, and those stuffed sea-gulls over there . . . nothing else
could have been absolutely right in that recess. How odd that I never knew
before how much I loved stuffed sea-gulls," she added, meditatively. He stopped
in front of the sea-gulls. "I got a ring for you at Warwick," he said, "only I
didn't dare to ask you to take it. Will you take it now? The other one was the
symbol of something you didn't mean. Let this one stand for--whatever you will."
Without a word she held out her hand, so he set the diamond and crystal above
the golden circlet. "I am a fairy princess," she said then. "No one but a fairy
princess ever had such a ring as this. Thank you, my Prince." With the word,
planted on the hour like a flag, they went on. The dining-room was paneled with
beech, gray and polished. In the middle a round table spread with silver and
glass, white lawn and white roses, shone like a great wedding-cake. "Do you
mind," he said, as he set the chair for her--"do you mind if we make it another
picnic and wait on ourselves? My old nurse was anxious to get back to her babies
--she's got five of them--so I ran her down in the car." "She lives in the
village, then? I thought she lived here." "I thought the five children might be
rather too much for you, especially when you're so tired." "But I'm not," she
said, "and oh, what a pretty supper!" The curtains were drawn, wax candles shone
from Sheffield-plated candlesticks on table and mantelpiece and gleamed
reflected in china and silver and the glass of pictures and bookcases. A little
mellow fire burned on the hearth. "What a darling room!" she said, "and how all
the things fit it, every single thing, exactly right. They couldn't go any other
way, possibly." "You told me they would," he said, "at Warwick. I remember you
told me they would fit in if one only loved them and gave them the chance. I
drink to you, Princess; and I know sparkling wine is extravagant; but to-day
isn't every day, and it's only Moselle, which is not nearly so expensive as
champagne, and much nicer." Raising their glasses, they toasted each other. "But
I thought," she said, presently--"I thought--there were to be no concealments."
"No more there are." "But this isn't. . . . Isn't this. . . . Surely that's the
bookcase you bought at Warwick--and these chairs and those candlesticks." "I own
it, Princess; I would scorn to deceive you." "Then this is _your_ house?" "It
is; just that." "Only that? Is there nothing else that it is? Wasn't it once my
house, for a very little while? Wasn't it here that you left me, that night when
I ran away and I met Mr. Schultz? . . . No, I forgot. . . . Of course I didn't
meet any one. . . . I mean when you came after me and found me at Tunbridge
Wells. Oh! Suppose you hadn't found me!" "How am I to suppose the impossible?
You couldn't be in the same world with me and I not find you. Yes, you are
right, as always; this is the house. Did you ever try bananas with chicken? Do!
They rhyme perfectly." "Don't seek to put me off with bananas. Was the house
yours when you brought me here?" "Yes; I had just bought it. All concealment is
really at an end now. And I am rather glad I did buy it, because this is
certainly better than the coffee-room of an inn, isn't it?" "How proud he is of
his house! And well he may be! And when did he arrange all this beautiful
furniture?" "When she banished him from London. It was something to do; and she
does like it?" "She does indeed. Have you furnished it all?" "Not nearly all. I
wanted your advice about the other parlor and the housekeeper's room and--oh,
lots of things. Yes, you are quite right in the surmise which I see trembling on
those lips. Mrs. Burbidge is going to be our housekeeper. She's staying at old
nurse's, ready to come in whenever she's wanted. If any one else decides to keep
house for me she can be sewing-maid, or still-room maid, or lady-in-waiting to
the hen-roost." "I see," she said, crumbling bread and looking at him across the
glass and the silver and the white flowers. "So this was the house! When I was
in the straw nest you made me I never thought the house could be like this. I
imagined it damp and desolate, with strips of torn paper--ugly patterns--hanging
from the wall, and dust and cobwebs and mice, perhaps even a rat. I was almost
sure I heard a rat!" "Poor, poor little princess." "Yes, I will!" she said,
suddenly, answering a voice that was certainly not his. "I don't care what you
say, I _will_ tell him. Edward, when I ran away it wasn't only because I didn't
want to be a burden and all that--though that was true, too--the real true truth
was that I was frightened. Yes, I was! I shivered in that straw nest and
listened and listened and listened, and held my breath and listened again, and I
was almost sure I heard something moving in the house; and it was so velvet-
dark, and I had to get up every time I wanted to strike a match, because of not
setting fire to the straw, and at last there were only four matches left. And I
kept thinking--suppose something should come creeping, creeping, very slowly and
softly, through the darkness, so that I shouldn't know it until it was close to
me and touched me! I couldn't bear it--so I ran away. Now despise me and call me
a coward." But he only said, "My poor Princess, how could I ever have left you
alone for a moment?" and came around the table expressly to cut just the right
number of white grapes for her from the bunch in the silver basket. Being there,
his hand touched her head, lightly, as one might touch the plumage of a bird.
"How soft your hair is!" he said, in a low voice, and went back to his place.
When the meal was over, "Let's clear away," she said, "it won't look so dismal
for your nurse when she comes in the morning." "Let me do it," said he. "Why
should you?" "Ah, but I want to," she said. "And I want to see the kitchen." And
the kitchen was worth seeing, with its rows of shining brasses, its tall clock,
its high chintz-flounced mantelpiece. When all was in order, when the table
shone bare in its bright, dark mahogany, he mended the fire, for the evening was
still chill with the rain, and drew up the big chair for her to the hearth she
had just swept. He stood a moment looking down at her. "May I sit at your feet,
Princess?" he asked. She swept aside her muslin and her gold embroideries to
make a place for him. The house was silent, so silent that the crackle of the
wood on the hearth seemed loud, and louder still the slow ticking of the tall
clock on the other side of the wall. Outside not a breath stirred, only now and
then came the tinkle of a sheep-bell, the sound of a hoof on the cobblestones of
the stable across the yard, or the rattle of the ring against the manger as some
horse, turning, tossed his head. He leaned back against her chair and threw his
head back until he could look at her face. The tips of her fingers touched his
forehead lightly and his head rested against her knee; and now he could not see
her face any more. Only he felt those smooth finger-tips passing across his brow
with the touch of a butterfly caress. "Are you happy?" he said, once again and
very softly. And once again she answered, "Yes!" Her hand ceased its movement
and lay softly on his hair. His hand came up and found her other hand. For a
long time neither spoke. Then suddenly she said, "What is it?" for she had felt
the tiniest movement of the head her hand rested on, a movement that told her he
had been about to speak and had then thought, "Not now, not yet." So she said,
"What is it?" because she had a secret, and she feared that he knew it. Then he
did speak. He said: "I have something to tell you; I hope you will forgive me. I
must tell you now. Ah! let your hand lie there while I tell you. Princess, I
have deceived you. If I did not think you would forgive me, I don't think I
could tell you, even now." "I could forgive you anything," she said, so low that
he hardly knew he heard it. "It is this," he said. "That marriage of ours--that
mock marriage--ah, try to forgive me for deceiving you! It was a real marriage,
my dear; I tricked you into a real marriage. It seemed to be the only way not to
lose you. It was a real marriage. You are my wife." The clock ticked on in the
kitchen, the fire crackled on the hearth, far on the down a sheep-bell tinkled
and was still. He sat there, immobile, rigid, like a statue of a man, his heart
beating a desperate tune of hope and fear. Could she forgive him? Dared he hope
it? This moment, so long foreseen, held terrors he had not foretold for it. Was
it possible that this deceit of his should come between them, even now? He
almost held his breath in a passion of suspense, and the moments fell past
slowly, slowly. He could bear it no longer. He sprang up, walked across the
room, came back, leaned on the mantelpiece so that she could not see his face.
"Oh, Princess, oh, my dearest!" he said, brokenly, "don't say that you can't
forgive me." She, too, had risen and stood beside him. Now she laid her hand on
his shoulder. "It's not that," she said. "I don't know how to tell you. I've
nothing to forgive--unless you have, too." He turned to meet her eyes, and they
fell before his. "Oh, Edward," she said, with a little laugh that was half
tears, "don't look like that! My dear, I knew it all the time." And there they
were, clinging to each other like two children saved from a shipwreck. "You
knew?" he said at last. "Of course I knew," she said. They drew back to let
their eyes meet in that look of incredulous gladness that lovers know when, at
last, all barriers are down and true love meets true love without veils or
reservations. "Thank God for this day," he said, reverently. And at that a
thunderous clamor at the house-door broke in on their dream, a clatter and a
clangor, a rattling of chains and a volley of resonant reverberatory barks.
"Why, it's Charles!" he cried. "How could he know I was here?" How, indeed? For
it was indeed Charles, incredibly muddy and wet, bounding round in the room the
moment the doors were opened, knocking over a chair, clattering the fire-irons,
and coming to heavy anchor, with all four feet muddy, on the edge of her white
gown. "I must go and chain him up in the stable," he said, when Charles had been
fed with the remains of the supper. "You won't be afraid to be left alone in the
house, Princess, dear?" "I sha'n't be afraid now," she said, caressing Charles's
bullet head. "You see, it's all different now. How could I be afraid in my own
home?" THE END

*       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes

Page 42, "Her" changed to "her" (her to suggest it)

Page 116, "wier" changed to "weir" (the weir-pool below)

Page 197, hyphen added between "to" and "find" (stealth-and-blush-to-find-it-
fame)