CHAPTER I. The Reverend John Watson, who, for the space of twenty years, was the
incumbent of the village of Winston, had not always been such an indolent
invalid as he appeared to those who only knew him during the last ten years of
that time. When he was inducted into the living, he was a husband and the father
of five children; a sixth was very shortly added to their nursery; and, for
several years after her birth, Mrs. Watson's activity, good judgment, and
influence with her husband, preserved, for him, the esteem and respect of his
parishioners, and the character amongst his acquaintance, of a very kind and
attentive neighbour, and a most highly respectable parish priest. But, with her
life, his energy seemed to depart; he became indolent from sorrow; shunning
society—shrinking from exertion—and confining himself to what was absolutely
unavoidable of his duties. This line of conduct, begun from grief, which seemed
to prostrate his mental strength, was continued from self-indulgence, long after
the poignancy of the grief was worn away, and it ended in really entailing the
ill-health—from which, he had, for sometime, pleased himself with fancying that
he suffered. Frequent attacks of the gout, disabled him from much exertion, and
often confined him to his room for weeks together. In the meantime, his family
grew up with almost every disadvantage that could attend them. Motherless, and
unchecked by their father, his girls—at least, the three eldest—were left
entirely to their own guidance and discretion, or indiscretion, to speak with
more propriety; and the sons were early sent out, to fight their own way in the
world, without the softening influence of domestic ties, or the memory of a
happy home to warm their hearts and strengthen their principles. The only one of
the family who could be said to have received a good education, was the youngest
daughter, Emma—who, on her mother's death, was begged of her father by his
brother-in-law, and brought up by him and his wife, as tenderly as if she had
been their own. He was a wealthy man; and by her own family, when they thought
of her at all, she was generally considered with something like envy—excepting
by her eldest sister, who had been too fond of her as an infant, not to rejoice
in her removal to a better home. It was considered as indisputable by the
others, that she was uncommonly lucky; since, beyond doubt, her uncle would
leave her handsomely provided for; and the only question on that subject, which
was debated with much anxiety, was, whether he ought not to divide his wealth
equally amongst them all, or whether the eldest son should inherit the greatest
share. Mr. Robert Watson, the expectant nephew, was an attorney at Croydon and
his flourishing business, joined to his great expectations from his rich uncle,
had proved overpowering attractions to a young lady in that neighbourhood, to
whom he had been united for several years, when the death of his uncle occurred.
Had the greedy anticipations of the nephew, or the selfish hopes of his vain
wife, been the only disappointed feelings on the occasion, nobody, but
themselves, would have much cared. But Mr. Pearson, in his will, trusting much
more to the steadiness of his wife, and less to the affection of his niece, than
either deserved, left the whole of his property in the widow's power. He
intended, perhaps, by this measure, to secure to her the respect and attention
of his sister's children, whose interest it thus became to keep on good terms
with their aunt; and was very far from anticipating the catastrophe that ensued.
Instead of acting the part of an indulgent aunt, or of a patronising and
tyrannical one, Mrs. Pearson took an active part to obliterate all trace of the
connection, by bestowing her hand, and her first husband's property, on a
handsome but poor young Irishman; and, on her shortly after quitting England, to
visit his relatives, she kindly gave Emma leave to return to her father's house,
with a generous present of fifty pounds to be divided between her and her
sisters. At the period of her return home, Emma found her two younger sisters
were absent; and the affectionate warmth with which Elizabeth Watson received
her, joined to the silence of her father on the mortifying subject of her aunt's
marriage, did great good to her heart and feelings. The painful sensations which
the union in question had occasioned her, were quite as strong as the
indignation, and far more amiable than the disappointment, which had been
experienced by other members of her family. She had loved and revered her uncle,
and would not, even to herself, admit that he had been unjust, hardly even
injudicious in the disposition of his property. But she had, also, loved her
aunt; and the memory of old obligations, and gratitude for long-continued
kindness, struggled painfully with less agreeable feelings. So far as her own
loss of fortune was concerned, she did not consider it worth a regret: having
been early accustomed to the luxuries of a handsome income, she had not the
smallest practical knowledge of what poverty is; and, therefore, with the
generous indifference natural to an amiable and liberal mind, she would have
felt no resentment, had this been the only evil attending the marriage. But the
fear that her aunt was bringing unhappiness on herself, by her injudicious
choice; the certainty that she was rendering herself an object of contempt or
ridicule; and the disappointment to her own affectionate heart in being thus
cast off for a stranger, though each bitter in itself, were altogether easy to
bear, compared with the glaring disrespect to her beloved uncle's memory, which
these hasty nuptials testified. This cut her to the heart; and perhaps it was
the silent reproach which her looks conveyed that made Mrs. Mac Mahon so very
desirous that Emma should cultivate an acquaintance with her own family, from
whom she had been too long separated. With the strong feelings of a warm and
youthful mind, not yet versed in the fleeting nature of every human woe, she
deemed this a grief which time might soften, but could never quite heal; and
though rejoicing at the prospect of meeting with her sisters, and cultivating an
unremitting and unfading affection for them, she was convinced that she never
should quite got over the disappointment her aunt had caused her. The Christmas
assembly was fast approaching, and Mrs. Edwards had, as usual, invited one of
the Miss Watsons to accompany her family to the ball. The absence of Penelope
and Margaret prevented there being any indecision as to which should be the
fortunate individual. Mr. Watson could not be left quite alone, and Emma having
never been to a ball, Elizabeth, without hesitation, decided in her favour. For
the first day or two that it was in contemplation, Emma, true to her pre-
arranged hopeless despondency, took little interest in the prospect; and though
strongly feeling her sister's good nature, and, for her sake, trying to seem
pleased, would really have given up her place without a sigh, to any individual
who desired it. But the interest of preparing her frock, arranging her
ornaments, and settling the minute details of the toilette, had the same
irresistible attraction for her, that they would have for nine girls out of ten,
and when the important afternoon arrived, she was in a very pleasant state of
excitement on the subject. "You will find the Edwardses very agreeable people,"
said Elizabeth to her, as they drove slowly from the parsonage along the lane,
now splashy and deep with November mud. "I assure you, they live in very good
style; the door will be opened by a man-servant, and their dinner is sure to be
handsome." "What sort of person is Mr. Edwards?" enquired Emma, who began to
have a little palpitation, at the idea of being left quite amongst strangers.
"Oh, you need not mind him," said her sister, "you will see him at dinner, and
he will ask you to take wine; and he will eat a great many filberts after
dinner, and offer you some gingerbread; but you need not take it if you don't
like; Mary Edwards makes it on purpose for her father, who eats it every day.
Mr. Edwards will play at cards all the evening at the ball, and if he wins you
will stay late, and he will be quite good tempered; but if he has ill-luck, he
will hurry you home very early. However you will be sure of some comfortable
soup afterwards; and if he is cross, you had better say nothing, and go to bed
as soon as you can!" "I will be sure and remember it," observed Emma. "As the
party from Osborne Castle are expected," continued Elizabeth, "I dare say it
will be a very good ball; I am sure you will be very much admired; how I should
like to be there myself!" "Well, Elizabeth, I am sure you shall go instead of
me; it would be much better, as _you_ know everybody, and _I_ am quite a
stranger. I could send John over with your things if you staid in my place; I
should not be at all afraid of driving this steady old thing back to Winston by
myself; and as to our father, I dare say I could amuse him. Do you know I really
think you had better settle it so." "My dearest Emma," cried Elizabeth warmly,
"how excessively good-natured of you; but I could not do such a thing for the
world, though I shall always remember your making the offer. Keep you from your
first ball indeed; when you are so sure of being so much admired! oh no, it is
only fit that you should have your turn of pleasure, and I would not hinder
you." "But indeed, dear Elizabeth, I should not care about it, I am sure, in
comparison with you, so you need not mind that!" "But indeed I could not think
of such a thing; and besides, my principal wish would be to see _you_ there. I
am sure you will enjoy it. Offer to give up a ball at nineteen, and your first
ball too; I wonder when Pen or Margaret would think of such a thing: I am sure
_I_ should never have forgiven any one who kept _me_ from a ball at your age.
But if my father seems pretty well, and can spare me, I really think I would
wrap myself up, and make John drive me over to join you there; I could easily do
that you know." "What! drive over in this pony-chaise, Elizabeth?" said Emma,
much surprised. "Yes, why not! I suppose _you_ have been so used to a coach, as
to think that impossible: but, my dear Emma, I am afraid you are too refined to
be happy with us!" "Too refined!" said Emma, "what do you mean?" "Why that is
just an example,—you are not used to make shifts, and be put about; and are
shocked at such an idea; it will not answer, I assure you, it will not make you
happy." "I am sorry you see anything to find fault with, Elizabeth; I did not
know I was refined; it is natural to me; I only think and feel like the people I
have been used to," and she sighed at the thought of her uncle and aunt. "I dare
say that is very true; but it will not do here; how Pen would laugh at you; you
have no idea how she ridicules everything not just like herself. So you had
better get over it as fast as you can!" "I will do my best," sighed Emma. "I
should not wonder if Tom Musgrove were to dance with you, he generally notices
every new girl, especially if they are pretty. But I should not like _you_ to be
caught by him." "Who is he? I never heard you mention him." "Oh, he is a young
man of independent property who lives near here; and one of our pleasantest
young men too; but I must warn you against him, Emma; he has a way of paying
attentions to young girls, and he is so pleasant they all like him; so when he
has made one desperately in love, he flies off to somebody else, and does not
mind what hearts he breaks." "What a despicable character," cried Emma warmly,
"you need not fear my liking him after that." "I assure you," returned Miss
Watson, "he is _very_ agreeable, and I defy any girl to whom he tries to
recommend himself, not to find him agreeable. Almost every girl in this
neighbourhood except myself, has been desperately in love with him at one time
or other. Margaret was his last object, but though he has not paid her much
attention for these six months, she is perfectly persuaded that he is as much
attached to her as she is to him; and this is the second time since last spring
that she has gone to stay a month at Croydon, in the hopes of his following and
proposing to her. He never will however." "And how came you to escape?" enquired
Emma with interest. "Really I can hardly tell; I think at first I was so taken
up with the affair with Purvis, and my disappointment there, that I thought
little about Tom Musgrove." "To whom do you allude?" said Emma, "I do not at all
understand you?" "Did you never hear about that!" said Elizabeth with surprise,
"perhaps you were thought too young to be trusted; but I will tell you now. I
was engaged to him; he was a very nice young man, and it would have been a very
good match for me—and what do you think prevented it?" "I am anxious to know,
Elizabeth, but cannot guess!" "It was Penelope—yes, it was really Pen, she said;
and did things which caused the rupture—and Purvis left me!" Emma looked much
shocked. "I can hardly believe it: your own sister; it seems quite impossible
that any girl could be guilty of such treachery: what could be her motive!" "Oh,
she wanted to marry him herself—Pen would do anything in the world to be
married—that is what she is gone to Chichester about now—did you not know that?"
"Gone about?" repeated Emma looking puzzled—"what do you mean, how can she be
gone to be married?" "Don't you know that," again exclaimed Elizabeth, "though,
to be sure, I do not see how you should, as nobody could have told you. I
believe there is some old doctor there whom she is bent upon marrying. He is
quite an old man, asthmatic, and all sorts of bad things: the friend she is
staying with, however, thinks it would be a very good match for her, as he would
make her a handsome settlement, and could not live long. I am not at all in her
confidence, however, and have only a general notion of how things go on; I just
hear what she tells Margaret, or what she lets out accidentally. I believe they
think everything going on very prosperously now, and, perhaps, she may soon be
married to him. I am sure I hope she will." "Oh, Elizabeth, do you think she
could be happy with an old asthmatic man? and marrying from such mercenary
motives," cried Emma, half horrified. "Really I do not know," replied Miss
Watson quietly, "whether _she_ would be happier or not; but I am sure _we_
should. I wish with all my heart Pen and Margaret both were married; for
Margaret is so peevish, there is no peace unless one lets her have her own way;
and Penelope would rather have quarrelling going on than nothing. Now I think
you and I could live together very comfortably, Emma; and really I would rather
the others were married than myself." "Yes, I can easily believe that," returned
Emma, "having once loved, and been disappointed, I can understand your not
caring about any one else." "I do not know that _that_ would make any
difference," returned Miss Watson. "Poor Purvis, I certainly was very sorry to
lose him; and really suffered very much at the time; but it would be a very
pleasant thing to be well married; and, I believe, scarce any body marries their
first love." "I would rather do anything than marry for money," observed Emma,
"it is so shocking. I would rather be teacher at a boarding school." "I have
been at school, Emma, which you have not, and know what a school teacher is—such
a life—I would rather do anything than that!" "But to marry without love—that
must surely be worse," persisted Emma. "Oh, I would not marry without love,
exactly; but I think I could easily love any tolerably good-tempered man, who
could give me a comfortable home. I am sure I would make any body a good wife;
unless they were very cross. But your idea of _loving_ is just another of your
refinements, Emma; and only does for rich people who can afford such luxuries."
Emma did not reply; but presently said—

"I think there is only one Miss Edwards, you told me." "Oh yes, Mary Edwards is
the only daughter; and I wish you particularly to observe who she dances with;
whether she is much with the officers, especially if Captain Hunter is very
attentive to her. I must write to Sam soon, and he will be anxious to hear—"

"Why should he care?" enquired Emma. "Because, poor fellow, he is very much in
love with her himself—and he begged me to watch for him, and let him know what
chance he has—I must say, I do not think he has any at all; and even if Mary
liked him, her father, and certainly her mother, would not encourage it. If Sam
were set up for himself even, as an apothecary, I do not know that they would
let her think of him; but being merely an assistant to a country doctor, I am
sure he ought to have no hopes." "Poor fellow," said Emma, "you think he loves
her, do you?" "Oh yes, I have no doubt of _his_ love being very strong; he is
always writing about her, and, when he comes home, trying to see her: however,
he says now, he does not mean to see her again, unless he gets some decided
encouragement; or else he might have tried to come here and meet her at this
ball: he will not ask for a day at Christmas, unless I send him a good account."
"Well, I will be sure to observe," replied Emma. No more conversation could pass
between the sisters, as they had reached the outskirts of the town; and the
noise of the carriage wheels on the rough pitching of the street, made all
attempts to be heard quite fruitless. Elizabeth whipped and urged on the old
horse into something like an animated trot, and they soon were threading their
way between the carts of cabbages, and turnips—waggons of hay—stalls of cattle,
and sheep—old women with baskets—young women with fine gowns—boors with open
mouths, and idle boys and girls with mischievous fingers congregating in the
untidy market-place of a small country town. Having successfully crossed these,
and escaped without accident, though not without some apprehension on Emma's
part, they proceeded along the High Street in safety, until the house of Mr.
Edwards was reached. Elizabeth certainly expected Emma to be somewhat impressed
with the grandeur of this, the principal residence of the town; but the bright
red-brick house created no peculiar sensation in her mind, though she saw it was
one story higher than the neighbouring buildings. The dark green door,
glittering brass knocker, and snow white steps, were likewise considered by Emma
as things of course, being unaware that they testified to the wealth and taste
of the proprietor, and when their knock was answered by a footman in livery, as
Elizabeth had foretold, she was yet so entirely ignorant as to regard him
without emotion, or entertain any feeling of extra respect for his master. They
found Mrs. and Miss Edwards sitting together—the father, of course, was at his
office and not likely to appear till dinner time. Mary Edwards was a pleasing
looking girl, though the curl papers, which were a part of her preparation for
the evening, did not improve her appearance. Her manner was rather reserved, but
less so than that her mother—whose formal stiffness was so great, that Emma
almost fancied herself an unwelcome guest; and felt so uncomfortable and
frightened, as to be more than half inclined to accompany Elizabeth home again.
When, after sitting a short time, the latter rose to depart, leaving her sister
with a sinking heart, Mrs. Edwards tried to be agreeable, enquired how Emma
liked their country—whether she walked much—and if she usually enjoyed good
health—to all which questions, Emma returned answers as coherent and
intelligible as could be expected from a person whose thoughts were fixed on
another subject. Her mind was involved in a labyrinth of wonder, as to the
reason why Mrs. Edwards had so far punished herself as to have invited one to
whom she seemed so very unfriendly. After half an hour of this unpleasant
intercourse, the ladies went up stairs to dress; and as the two girls were now
together, without the mother's cold looks to distress them, they soon became
more easy and intimate. The little cares of the toilette—the assistance they
mutually afforded each other—the interest thereby raised, quickly dispersed the
apparent coldness of Mary Edwards' manner; and she even ventured to observe to
Emma, that she thought her like her brother. It was easy to guess which brother
she meant, and Emma did not force her to particularise; but as Miss Edwards
turned away directly after uttering this, and bent over a drawer to search for
something, which she never found, it was impossible to decide as to the degree
of her blushing; but Emma thought, at the moment, her companion looked so very
pretty and lady-like in her ball-dress, that she felt no surprise at her
brother's predilection. Mr. Edwards joined them at dinner; and, whilst he was
helping the soup, he repeated the observation, which his daughter had previously
and privately made, that Miss Emma Watson was very like her brother. Mrs.
Edwards coolly replied she did not see it. "We are very well acquainted with
your brother, Mr. Sam." resumed Mr. Edwards. "He usually dines with us, when he
is at home." Emma did not know exactly what to answer, but Mrs. Edwards took up
the subject in her peculiarly cold manner, and observed:

"It is, now, many months since _we_ have seen anything of Mr. Sam Watson—though,
I believe, he did dine with you, Mr. Edwards, whilst _we_ were at Bath, last
year." Mary's cheeks became of a decidedly deeper shade of pink during this
discourse, but she ate her soup without speaking. "I hope he was well, when you
heard of him last," persisted Mr. Edwards, seeming, in a very husband-like way,
bent on continuing the conversation which his wife desired to stop. "I do not
think my sister has heard, since I have been at Winston," replied Emma. "Young
men in business, have not much time for idle correspondence," observed the elder
lady, so much as if she thought Miss Watson _ought_ not to have received a
letter, that Emma ventured to observe she supposed that was the reason. Mr.
Edwards did not, any further, provoke his wife by persevering on this subject,
and the rest of the dinner passed calmly and uneventfully away. Mrs. Edwards,
anxious to secure a comfortable seat by the fire, was determined to be, as
usual, very early in the ball-room—and her husband was roused from his after-
dinner nap, to accompany them—which he unwillingly did; after settling his
cravat and arranging his wig at the glass, which surmounted the drawing-room
chimney-piece. The coach conveyed them very safely to the assembly rooms in the
Red Lion; and as they were mounting the stairs in the dark, for they were so
early that the lamp in the lobby was not lighted, the door of a bed-room was
suddenly opened, and a young man appeared in dishabille. "Ha! Mrs. Edwards!"
said he, "early, as usual! you always take care to be the first in the field.
When you come, I know it is time for me to dine; but I think I must dress
first—don't you think so?" Mrs. Edwards replied by begging they might not
interrupt him in so necessary an occupation; and, with a formal bow, passed
on—looking round anxiously to see whether her two young charges were following.
"Do you know him?" whispered Mary. "No," replied Emma, in the same tone. "It is
Tom Musgrove," said Miss Edwards, a little louder, as they advanced further from
the vicinity of his apartment. "_Mr._ Musgrove," said her mother, with a
peculiar emphasis. Mary blushed and was silent. CHAPTER II. They entered the
ball-room; it looked very cold and very dull; the candles as yet hardly lighted,
and the fires yielding far more smoke than heat. Over one of these several
officers were lounging; Mrs. Edwards directed her steps to the other, and seated
herself on the warmest side; her two companions found chairs near her, Mr.
Edwards having left them at the door of the ball-room, to seek out his old
associates at the whist-tables. But it was all so new to Emma, that she did not
feel any of the annoyance at their early appearance with which a more
experienced young lady would have been afflicted. Everything interested her
happy mind, and she even felt amused in ascertaining the number of lights, and
listening to the scraping of the fiddles tuning in the orchestra. They had not
been seated many minutes, when they were joined by a young officer, whom Emma
immediately guessed to be Captain Hunter, and from the pleasure which the quiet
Mary demonstrated at his addresses, she augured unfavourably for her brother's
prospects. She could not, however, accuse Mrs. Edwards of looking more kindly on
the gay soldier than she seemed to do on the doctor's assistant: and had it been
Sam himself, he could hardly have received a more frigid recognition than the
formal and ungracious bow, which Emma witnessed. Captain Hunter showed no
symptom of discouragement, but continued a low but eloquent conversation with
Mary, the only part of which intelligible to her companions was an engagement
for the first two dances; for these were the days of country dances, before
quadrilles, waltzes, and polkas had changed the face of the ball-room. There
must certainly be some connexion between the style of dress and the style of
dancing prevalent in any particular generation. The stiff ruffs, the awful long
waists and formal boddices of Elizabeth's reign were quite in keeping with a
stately pavan; the loose attire and complete undress adopted by the courtly
beauties of Charles the Second may be considered characteristic of the elegant
but licentious style pervading their dances. The minuet matched well with the
buckram, and rich brocade, and high head-dress which marked the era of the
earlier Georges; whilst powder and hoops of course disappeared under the
influence of the merry country-dance and cotillion. Perhaps at the present time
the dresses, like the dances, partake more of the character of the latter
Stuarts—graceful and bewitching; the habiliments full and flowing, the steps
vivacious but tending to giddiness, with a near approximation to romping, and a
great risk of inducing a _faux-pas_, or even a serious fall. But all this is a
digression from my story, and cannot possibly have passed through my heroine's
mind, since, sixty years ago, the liveliest fancy would have never pictured an
English ball such as we now see it. The accessions to the company at first few
and at great intervals, so as to allow Emma time to notice the dress, manners,
and appearance of each individual, gradually became so much more numerous, as to
prevent her seeing or observing more than half of them. Dancing, however, was
delayed because the Osborne Castle party were expected, and the stewards, of
course, were waiting for Miss Osborne to open the ball. At length, a bustle in
the assembly-room called Emma's attention to the door, from a very remarkable
dress which she had been for some minutes contemplating, and the important group
made their appearance. Mary pointed them out to her young companion: there was
Lady Osborne, with her splendid diamond necklace; her son and daughter, and her
daughter's friend, Miss Carr; her son's late tutor, Mr. Howard, his sister, and
her little boy, a child apparently about six years old. The last mentioned lady,
a widow with pleasing manners and a very agreeable countenance, happened to seat
herself near Emma, whose attention was speedily called to the little boy, by the
extreme impatience he evinced for the dance to begin. His mother, turning to a
friend beside her, observed,

"You will not wonder that Charles is so eager for his first dance, when you hear
how he is to be honoured; Miss Osborne has promised to dance with him herself,
which is very good-natured." "Oh yes," cried Charles, "she has promised to be my
partner ever since Saturday, indeed as long as I knew I was coming to the ball."
Just at this moment, Miss Osborne stepped hastily forward, and addressing the
little boy in a hurried manner, said:

"Charles, I am very sorry, but I find I cannot keep my engagement with you this
time; I must dance with Colonel Miller, but another time, the next dance,
perhaps, will do just as well for us I dare say." She then hastened away,
without waiting to witness the effect of her communication on the little fellow,
whose hopes and enjoyment seemed to vanish together. Disappointment was painted
on every feature, and his swelling heart appeared about to prompt a shower of
tears, with which a proud desire to appear manly was maintaining an ineffectual
struggle. His mother, who seemed little less distressed, endeavoured to soothe
his grief, and held out vague hopes of better luck another time; when Emma, who
really pitied him, and was quite interested by the appearance of both, said with
the most obliging air:

"If you will accept me as a substitute for Miss Osborne, sir, I shall be most
happy to dance with you the two next dances." It would be difficult to tell, of
the mother or son, which countenance looked the brightest, or whose eyes showed
the greatest pleasure at this kind offer: and the couple took their place in the
dance with equal satisfaction, Emma being perfectly contented with her juvenile
partner, whilst he was all anxiety to acquit himself well to do her honor, and
especially intent on running his fingers as far as possible into the points of
the new gloves which he had received from his mother on quitting her side, with
sundry injunctions to keep them on. Emma had been much amused when the Osborne
party entered, to see Tom Musgrove accompanying them; having, no doubt, from the
knowledge she had previously acquired, of his having been long in the house,
that he had been waiting outside the door, in order to join them, and appear as
if he formed one of their party. She now discerned him standing opposite to
herself by the side of Lord Osborne; who, she learnt from casual remarks amongst
ladies near her, never danced himself, and was now preventing or dissuading Tom
Musgrove from doing so either. Lord Osborne was a remarkably plain young man,
barely endowed with the air of a gentleman, and it seemed to observers, as if
the time spent in the ball-room were one of actual penance to him. His principal
occupation appeared to consist in regarding Emma with a broad, unmitigated
stare, which rather disconcerted her, and made her exert herself to converse
with Charles, that she might not seem to mind it. It was not easy for her to
decide what drew his attention so fixedly on herself; she thought, perhaps, that
he wondered at her presumption in standing up with one of his party; or that he
was criticising her style of dress; or censuring her dancing; she wished with
all her heart that he could find some other subject for his speculation, and was
quite relieved at the gradual change of place which dancing produced. Charles
was very happy, and spoke his feelings in rather an audible whisper, when
addressing Mr. Howard, as that gentleman was passing near him, he said:

"Oh, do look, Uncle Howard, at my pretty partner, I do really think she is the
prettiest girl in the room," an opinion which Mr. Howard himself did not seem
inclined to controvert, though his answer was more cautiously and softly given.
"Upon my word, Charles," said Miss Osborne, as she gave him hands across; "you
are in high luck; I am sure you have gained by the exchange," an assertion to
which, had Charles been a few years older, he would have replied with less
sincerity than his hurried "Yes," now announced. He told Emma he was very glad
_now_, that Miss Osborne had broken her promise, but could not help anxiously
enquiring whether she thought she would keep her engagement for the next dance.
Emma answered in the affirmative, though she could have given no better reason
for expecting Miss Osborne to perform her promise next time, than that she had
broken it the last. When the dance was concluded, and Emma returned to her seat,
Mrs. Wells, Charles' mother, expressed in warm terms, her obligation to Miss
Watson for so kindly dancing with her little boy; Emma assured her, with great
sincerity, that she was very happy to have given him pleasure, and that she had
greatly enjoyed her dance. They soon entered into an agreeable conversation—and
she was exceedingly pleased, when, a short time afterwards, they were joined by
Mr. Howard, who begged his sister to introduce him, and solicited her hand for
the ensuing dance. Mr. Howard's appearance and manner were such, as could not
fail to prepossess any one in his favor, and Emma had formed a favorable opinion
of him already, from the affectionate terms in which little Charles had spoken
of his uncle, when he informed her that he and his mother resided constantly
with him. The good nature which had actuated her brought its own reward; and she
thought, with much pleasure, of the ensuing dances. Previous to their
commencement, there was a proposal made by Mrs. Wells, that they should go in
search of tea. They set off accordingly—Charles very proudly escorting his
partner—Mr. Howard and his sister being close behind; when, in attempting to
enter the tea-room, they were met by so many returning to the dancing, that they
were forced to draw aside; and, almost pushed behind a half-opened door. Whilst
waiting here for a passage, Emma heard Lord Osborne address Mr. Tom Musgrove, as
they were standing together before the very door which concealed her. "I say,
Musgrove, why don't you go and dance with that beautiful Emma Watson that I may
come and look at her?" "I was just going to ask her, my lord:" cried Tom, "the
very thought that I had in my head this moment." "Ay, do so, then," continued
Lord Osborne, "and I will stand behind you; by Jove, she's so handsome that, if
ever I did dance with any girl, it should be with her!" It was with no little
self-congratulation, that Emma reflected on her engagement to Mr. Howard, which
would save her, as she hoped, from the unwelcome suit of Mr. Musgrove and the
stare of Lord Osborne. There was a sort of suppressed look of mirth and
amusement on the countenance of Mr. Howard, which convinced her that _he_, too,
had heard this short dialogue, and Charles evinced his perception of it by
whispering:

"They did not know we could hear them—and I would not have told them for the
world—would you?" A sentiment in which Emma silently, but entirely joined. It
was not till they left the room—and she had joined Mrs. Edwards—that they again
encountered Mr. Musgrove. He immediately requested an introduction, and Mrs.
Edwards was obliged to comply; but, it was in her coldest and most ungracious
manner. It evidently made not the slightest difference to the gentleman,
however, who heeded not the means to gain a wished-for end, and had long been
aware that he was no favorite with the Edwards' family generally. He immediately
flattered himself he should be permitted the great honor of dancing with Miss
Emma Watson the two next dances. She had peculiar satisfaction in replying that
she was engaged. "Oh! but, indeed," he eagerly replied, "we must not let my
little friend, Charles, engross you entirely, Miss Emma?" To which, with a
demure face, and an internal sensation of delight, she answered that she was not
engaged to dance with Master Wells. Tom was baffled and mortified, and he shewed
it in his face. He lingered, however, near her, until her partner appeared to
claim her hand; when, with a look of surprise, he went to inform Lord Osborne of
his ill-success. The young nobleman bore it with great philosophy. "Oh, with
Howard is it!" was his observation; "well, that will do just as well for me."
And accordingly he stationed himself exactly behind that gentleman, and again
indulged in the stare which Emma had previously found so annoying. She wished
with all her heart that he could find a less disagreeable way of expressing his
admiration, as even the idea that he thought her so handsome could not reconcile
her to his method of demonstrating it. However, she found Mr. Howard quite us
agreeable as his countenance had led her to expect, and upon the whole she
enjoyed herself exceedingly. When the dance had concluded, whilst she was still
engaged in a pleasant conversation with her partner, they were suddenly
interrupted by discovering that the Osborne Castle party were preparing to
leave. She heard Lord Osborne telling Tom Musgrove that the thing had become
very dull to the ladies, and his mother was determined to go home: though for
his own part, he thought it was the best ball he had been at for a long time.
Mrs. Wells and her brother of course accompanied the others, and Emma wished
them good night, and saw them depart with regret, in which they appeared to
participate. Lord Osborne entered, after quitting the room for a minute or two,
as if reluctant to tear himself away, and disturbing her from the corner where
she was resting, muttered an inaudible excuse of having left his gloves in the
window-seat behind her; though the said gloves being carefully coiled up in his
hand all the time, it was certain that he must have had some other object in
view, which probably was to enjoy one more stare at her. Tom Musgrove
disappeared at the same time from the ball-room, as he would not be guilty of
the vulgarity of outstaying the grandest part of the company; whether he spent
the rest of the evening in helping Mrs. Newland make negus at the bar, or
consoled himself by ordering a barrel of oysters and whisky-punch in his own
room, Emma never ascertained, but her partner, who laughed excessively at his
airs of elegance, assured her he had no doubt it was great mortification and
self-denial on his part to appear indifferent, and she was too little pleased
with him to avoid feeling a secret satisfaction at this conviction. The rest of
the assembly lost nothing in spirit by their departure, and seemed determined to
enjoy themselves, though Miss Osborne had pronounced the evening dull, and her
friend Miss Carr was heard to declare, after surveying every one through her
glass, that it all seemed very vulgar. Emma's next partner was an officer, but
she had several other solicitations which she was forced to refuse, as a very
pretty girl, quite new, and evidently admired by Lord Osborne, was not likely to
be neglected in a country assembly-room, and for the rest of the evening it was
quite the fashion to call her "_the pretty_ Miss Watson." As it was a regulation
in the ball-room that no other dance should be called after one o'clock, this
finished her amusement; and at the summons of Mr. Edwards she was not at all
dissatisfied to return home, although she professed to have spent a most
delightful evening. She felt rather anxious to ascertain whether Mr. Edwards had
lost or won at cards, and on entering the dining-room, where the supper-table
was spread, she looked anxiously at his countenance, to read his features, and
discover his state of mind. The pleasant conviction that fortune had favoured
him was conveyed to her mind, when, on the subsidence of the frown which the
sudden glare of candle-light occasioned, he presented a bland smile and self-
satisfied aspect, pronounced the soup which, as Elizabeth had predicted,
appeared to comfort them, to be extremely good, and joked with Emma about the
hearts which he guessed she had conquered on this her first appearance in their
country. "Well, Mary," added he, turning to his daughter, and chucking her under
the chin, "and who did you dance with? Who was your first partner?" "Captain
Hunter, sir," replied Mary, demurely, yet blushing a little. "And who next?"
pursued he. "Mr. Edward Hunter, sir." "And who is he?" "Captain Hunter's
cousin." "Oh, aye—very well: who next?" "Captain Scott, sir." "Who is he—another
cousin of Captain Hunter, eh?" "No, sir; only a friend of his." "I thought so,"
said her father, chuckling. "Mary was surrounded with red-coats the whole
evening," observed Mrs. Edwards. "I must say I should have been as well pleased
to have seen her dancing with some of our old friends and neighbours, and less
taken up with those soldiers." It was lucky for Mary that her father had been
winning at cards, as he would otherwise, very probably, have been as much
offended as her mother seemed to be on hearing of her conduct. He now, however,
good-humouredly took her part—only saying—

"Pooh, pooh, my dear, the girl naturally likes officers, all girls do—besides,
if those young men are quicker at asking her than others, how could she help
dancing with them." Mrs. Edwards looked very little pleased at an observation
which was too true to be contradicted, and observed, in a general way, that she
had always remarked girls could contrive to oblige their parents when they had a
mind to do so. "I hope you had your share of officers, Miss Emma," said the old
gentleman. "Thank you, sir, I had quite sufficient," said Emma, quietly. "Oh,
Miss Emma was almost above the officers, she got into the Osborne Castle set,
and her partner was no less than Mr. Howard. Did Lord Osborne ask you?" "No,
ma'am," replied Emma. "I am sure he looked at you enough," continued Mrs.
Edwards; "I thought he was going to eat you." "I was not afraid of that," said
Emma, smiling; "but I own I was rather annoyed." "I think Mr. Musgrove was more
insufferable than ever," pursued Mrs. Edwards; "I am glad you did not dance with
him, Miss Emma; really that young man is beyond bearing in his impertinence."
"Oh, you should not abuse him to Miss Emma; I dare say her sisters give a very
different account of him; he is a great favorite with all of them, I know," said
Mr. Edwards. "I never heard anything of him which particularly prepossessed me
in his favour," replied Emma, very coolly. "Elizabeth mentioned him, and, from
what I have seen, I should think her description was very like the truth."
Little more was said by any one, and the party, after many yawns, separated for
the night, to the great relief of their young guest, who was exceedingly sleepy,
and longing for darkness and silence. CHAPTER III. The next morning, as the
ladies were quietly sitting together, and just as Emma was beginning to expect
the arrival of her sister to take her home, a loud knock was heard at the door,
which gave audible notice of a far more masculine hand than that of Elizabeth
Watson. There was hardly time, however, for more than a brief wonder on the
subject, when Mr. Musgrove was announced. The stiffness of Mrs. Edwards'
reception, and the cold tranquillity of Mary's manners, seemed to make no
impression on him; at least, so Emma judged from there being no abatement of
that air of self-complacency which had early struck her as belonging to him.
After the opening compliments to the party, he turned to Emma herself, and
presenting a note, observed that this would, in part, explain and excuse his
intrusion. It was from Elizabeth to herself, to say, that as her father had
found himself better than usual, he had suddenly resolved to go to the
visitation which happened that day, and in consequence of his thus employing the
chaise, she could not come, as she had promised, to bring her sister home. She
added, that she did not, in the least, know what Emma could do, only if the
Edwardses asked her to remain, she thought that was the best thing that could be
contrived. After pondering over this unwelcome note for several minutes, Emma
was just about to state the dilemma to Mrs. Edwards, when Tom Musgrove broke in.
"I had an interest, Miss Emma, in bringing that note, and a message besides,
from your sister, which you must allow me to state. I met Miss Watson in the
village seeking for a messenger, and offered to do her errand, as she told me
the object of it, on condition that she would sanction my bringing you home in
my curricle. Believe me, it will be with the greatest delight that I will drive
you to Winston, and the carriage is now at the door waiting for the honour of
your occupation." Emma looked a little distressed. "Did Elizabeth really wish me
to come home that way," said she, hesitating. "I assure you, my proposal had her
full and unqualified consent, and you have only to say the word, and now—in half
an hour—an hour—two hours time—any time—I am at your service." "I am much
obliged to you," replied Emma, embarrassed between her fear lest she should be
supposed intruding on her hostess, and her extreme dislike of encouraging any
appearance of intimacy with Mr. Musgrove; "but I do not think it is in the least
degree necessary that I should give you the trouble. The walk is nothing, and I
dare say I can easily find a person to carry my few things." "The _trouble_ is
nothing, Miss Emma," cried he, "but the walk cannot be ranked in that way;
three—four miles—what is it—five perhaps—and such mud and dirt to get
through—and after dancing all night too: indeed it must be impossible. And there
stand my horses—useless—unemployed save by my unworthy self—indeed you _must_
accept my offer." Emma would not yield; she was quite determined to encounter
any inconvenience rather than accept the offered seat; and the more pressing he
became the firmer her refusals grew. Mrs. Edwards, who had been quietly
listening to what was passing between them, no sooner ascertained that the
inclination of her young visitor was decidedly opposed to an offer, which _she_
would have deemed it in the highest degree indecorous to accept, than with a
very unusual warmth of manner on her part, she interposed, and greatly relieved
Emma by saying:

"If Miss Watson can wait until after luncheon, I shall have great pleasure in
conveying her home in our coach." This well-timed offer was gratefully and
gladly accepted, but Tom loudly interposed. "But you know, Mrs. Edwards, that is
contrary to all your rules—quite impossible to have your horses out to-day,
after their night-work. Surely you cannot really and seriously mean such a
thing—and my curricle here to make it quite unnecessary." "I do really mean it;"
replied Mrs. Edwards steadily, "our carriage and horses are quite at Miss
Watson's service; and I am happy to relieve her from the risk which she
evidently apprehends in so dashing an equipage as your curricle. She will, no
doubt, feel much safer in our coach!" The gentleman bit his lip, but was forced
to yield; and turning to Emma, enquired:

"How did it happen, Miss Emma, that none of your sisters were at the ball?—I
don't think I saw them there all the evening." "My eldest sister," answered Emma
coldly, "could not leave my father, and she is the only one at home now." "Oh,
indeed; why how long have the others been away?" then without waiting for an
answer, he continued—"How did you like our ball last night? I suppose you did
not keep it up much after I was gone!" "When did you leave the room?" enquired
Emma, pleased to give him the retort courteous, for his affected ignorance about
her sisters. "Oh, I did not stay after the Osbornes' party went away—I was tired
and bored." "And _we_ enjoyed ourselves nearly two hours after that," cried
Emma, "and as the room was less crowded with idlers who would not dance, I think
it was particularly pleasant." "Upon my word, I wish I had known that, I really
should have been tempted to come back, after seeing Miss Carr to the carriage,"
said Tom, "but you know, Mrs. Edwards, sometimes when one's particular friends
are gone, one fancies all the rest will be dull—so I went to my room."
"Possibly," replied Mrs. Edwards, "but I am used to judge for myself in such
matters, and therefore am not likely to be misled in the way you are now
regretting." After remaining as long as he could without very great rudeness,
and receiving no invitation to stay and take luncheon, Mr. Musgrove drove off in
his curricle, exceedingly astonished at the fact of the offered seat in it being
so firmly rejected. It was something quite new to him, for he had been used to
consider the other Miss Watsons as quite at his disposal, and could hardly
imagine that one of the family could have ideas and feelings so diametrically
opposed to her sisters'. According to her promise, Mrs. Edwards' carriage safely
conveyed Emma to her father's house in the course of that afternoon, Mary
Edwards accompanying her, but not remaining many minutes, as she well knew their
dinner hour was approaching, and she did not wish to be in their way. No sooner
had she withdrawn, than Elizabeth began expressing her extreme surprise at the
fact of the Edwards' coach, coachman, and horses being considered in a state fit
for use the day after the ball, as they always used to rest when they had been
out at night. "Only think of their sending you home, my dear Emma, I cannot tell
you how surprised I am—_I_ never knew such a thing done before." "I assure you,
it was very kindly done, Elizabeth; and not only was the carriage placed at my
service, but Mrs. Edwards' manner became much more friendly from that time."
"Well, I wonder you did not accept Tom Musgrove's offer—or did he not make it—or
did you get my note?" "Yes; he brought the note; but, indeed, dear Elizabeth, I
was so unprepared for your proposing, or allowing him to propose such a thing,
that I thought you had, probably, known nothing about it; and that the whole was
a device on his part. How could you imagine, after what you had yourself told
me, that I would allow him to drive me about in that way. I could not do such a
thing." "Indeed, I had some scruples, Emma, about it; I did not like throwing
you together in that way, but I could see no other means of your getting
home—and I did long for that. Who would have thought of the Edwardses having out
their coach? But I never, for a moment, expected you would refuse him. I don't
think I could have done such a thing—though, I dare say, it was quite right; I
should not have had the resolution to resist such a temptation!" "It was no
temptation to me; and, therefore, required no extraordinary resolution
Elizabeth. I thought it wrong, besides,—but I certainly should have disliked
it." "You do not mean to say you dislike Tom Musgrove!" cried Elizabeth, in
great surprise; "did you not dance with him? Did he not ask you?" "He did ask
me, and I did not accept him," replied Emma, smiling at her sister's amazement,
"but his manners do not please me; and I do not think that, having accepted him
last night as a partner, would have made me wish for him to-day as a driver."
"Well, tell me all about it," cried Elizabeth, "I am longing to hear all about
the ball. Who did you dance with? How did you like it—give me the whole
history." Emma complied, and related, as minutely as possible, all the events of
the preceding evening. Elizabeth's surprise on hearing it was extreme. "Good
gracious!" cried she, much agitated; "dance with Mr. Howard? Well, Emma, how
could you venture? were you not frightened out of your wits? Dance with the man
who plays at cards with old Lady Osborne!—whom she seems so fond of—well, you
are the boldest little thing possible! And you say you were not afraid?" "No,
really," said Emma, "why should I be—he was quite the gentleman, I assure you."
"Oh, yes!" said Miss Watson, "a gentleman, of course he is; but, why should that
prevent your being afraid? Did you talk to him? How did you know what to say?"
"There was no difficulty about that," replied Emma, "he was very agreeable and
we had a great deal of conversation." "Well, I am glad you were so noticed,
Emma," said her sister, kindly; "I knew you must be admired; and, really, am
rejoiced that you have made so good a beginning. Dance with Mr. Howard—refuse
Tom Musgrove—and come home in Mrs. Edwards' coach! I wonder what you will do
next!" "Come home in my own, we will hope," said Emma, laughing; "like a good
girl in a fairy story—very grand in a gilt coach and four." Elizabeth then
proceeded to enquire about Mary Edwards and Captain Hunter; and the inference
which she deduced from Emma's narrative, was extremely unfavorable to her
brother's prospects. She declared she would write to Sam that evening, and tell
him he had no hope. "But here comes Jenny with the dinner. Poor Emma! you will
not dine as well as you did yesterday. There is only fried beef—for, as my
father was gone out, and I hardly expected you, I did not think it worth while
to get any thing more. If I had been sure of your coming, I would have got you a
chop." "Quite unnecessary, dear Elizabeth, I do not care what I eat," replied
Emma, as she moved her chair to the table. "That is so pleasant of you, Emma,"
said Elizabeth, "I must say, with all your refinement, you are easier pleased
than either Pen or Margaret. How very comfortably we could live together." Mr.
Watson returned from the visitation and the dinner in very good spirits. "I am
very glad I went," said he, "people were all very kind, and the dinner was very
good. I don't know how many people told me they were glad to see me, and I had
some capital venison—there was turbot too, and hare soup—all excellent—and a
very civil young clergyman, a very nice young man indeed, would help me down to
dinner, and took care I had a warm seat, and saved me the trouble of calling for
things. I thought it very kind of him, I think his name is Howard. He asked
after my daughter too—I don't know which he meant at all—but I suppose you can
tell amongst yourselves. I really don't know when I passed a more pleasant
afternoon!" The next morning, however, brought a different story. The unusual
exertion combined with turbot and venison, brought on a violent fit of the gout,
and for a day or two the girls hardly left their father's room, or had any other
pursuit or occupation than attempting to relieve his pain, or amuse his
intervals of rest. The third day after the ball, whilst Jenny was slowly
preparing the dinner-table in the parlour, with more noise than despatch, the
two girls standing over the fire looking at her movements, the door-bell was
heard following the tread of horses on the gravel at the entrance. "Who can that
possibly be?" cried Elizabeth, "run and let them in, Jenny—no, stop, I think you
had better not—just say your master is ill."

Jenny bustled off—leaving the knife-basket on the floor, and the cloth half
opened on the table. A moment of silent suspense followed, when in reply to some
mutterings of Jenny, they heard through the door which she had left open Tom
Musgrove's voice—

"Oh, never mind, we will go in all the same; we came to enquire for Mr. Watson."
And another voice, laughing harshly, was heard, and steps along the passage,
which excited Elizabeth to such a degree, that she hastily twitched off the
unspread cloth, and threw it into a chair behind the door—which she had just
time to do, before the visitors presented themselves unannounced; for Jenny was
too much astonished at the event to find tongue to utter the names of Lord
Osborne and Mr. Musgrove; but stood with her mouth open gazing in the passage.
Elizabeth felt excessive surprise at this unexpected visit, to a degree which
almost made her unconscious of what she was doing. Shame at being detected by
Lord Osborne in dining at three o'clock, and doubt how to behave to him—an
inclination to apologise for her homely appearance, plain stuff-gown and untidy
room, which, however, was fortunately checked by her uncertainty how to express
herself properly, all contended in her mind; when the first gush of surprise was
abated, it was quite a relief to her, to shake hands with her old friend Tom
Musgrove, and to see him seat himself without ceremony. Emma, on the contrary,
felt this intrusion extremely impertinent and ill-bred; what excuse was there
for Lord Osborne calling in this way; there never had been any acquaintance
previously between the families, her father had never been noticed by the
inhabitants of the Castle, nor invited there as many of the neighbouring gentry
were; and now that he was ill, and they knew it, she was indignant that they
should thus force themselves on her sister and herself. Her own curtsey was as
stiff and reserved, as if she had been taking lessons of Mrs. Edwards; and she
resumed her seat without feeling the slightest inclination to converse herself,
and being almost displeased with Elizabeth for the easy manner in which she
allowed, or perhaps encouraged, Tom Musgrove to address her. Lord Osborne's
visit was certainly meant for Emma, for he placed himself near her, and sat some
minutes with his eyes fixed on her countenance, until she began to think he
meant to preserve the same conduct in her father's house, as he had done at the
ball. At length, however, he spoke:

"It's a beautiful morning; ain't you going to walk to-day?" "No, my Lord,"
replied she quietly, raising her eyes from her work, "I think it is too dirty!"
"You should wear boots," said he, "nankeen with block tops, look very nice, when
a woman has a pretty ankle." She had nothing to object to his taste, and did not
reply. "Do you ride?" continued he. "No, my lord." "Why not? every woman should
ride; a woman never looks so well as on horse-back, well mounted, and in a
handsome habit—you _should_ ride—don't you like it?" "There are, sometimes,
other impediments, my lord, besides want of taste, even to so becoming an
amusement," replied Emma, gravely. "Eh? I don't understand," resumed he, "what
prevents you?" "I have no horse," replied Emma, thinking _that_ the shortest way
of finishing the subject, and reducing it to the level of his capacity. "Then
your father should keep one for you," observed he. "My father cannot afford it,"
said Emma, decidedly; "and I have no wish to act in a way inconsistent with our
circumstances." "Poor is he? how uncomfortable!" said Lord Osborne, "why, what's
his income, do you suppose?" continuing in the tone in which he would have
questioned a day labourer as to his wages. "It is a point upon which I never
thought myself entitled to enquire," she replied, drawing herself proudly up,
and speaking in a tone not to be misunderstood. Lord Osborne looked at her with
surprise, which was gradually converted into admiration at the beautiful effect
of the colour which dyed her cheek as she spoke. An idea crossed his mind that,
perhaps, he had not been sufficiently civil, and he tried to soften his voice,
and put on a more winning manner. "The hounds meet next Monday about a mile from
here, at Upham—will you not come and see them throw off. It's a pretty sight."
"I do not think it will be in my power, my lord." "I wish you could—did you ever
see it?" "Never." "Well, you cannot imagine how gay it is; we have such a
capital breakfast always at Upham Lodge; then the scarlet coats round the edge
of the cover; the horses—the talking and laughing, the ladies who drive over to
see us—though I often think them rather a bore—then the great burst when the
dogs do find; and off they go away, and we after them, and forget every thing in
the world, except one wish, to be in at the death. You cannot think how exciting
it is. Do come." "Thank you, my lord; but I must be satisfied with your
description. I cannot accept your invitation." "Perhaps you are afraid of the
cold; my sister caught a dreadful cold one day, when she came in an open
carriage, and it was wet; are you thinking of that?" "No, for I did not know it
before." "Didn't you? She was ill a month; I was monstrous sorry for her—for you
see it was partly my fault; I persuaded her to come; I don't know how it is. I
rather like to have her with me—some men don't." Emma could hardly suppress a
smile at this eloquent demonstration of his fraternal affection. She began,
however, to think that if Lord Osborne liked his sister there might be some good
in him; which, before, she had been inclined to question. The gentlemen sat
long, although Tom Musgrove, at least, must have been perfectly aware that he
was encroaching on their dinner hour; and Emma was growing exceedingly weary of
the looks of Lord Osborne, who sunk into repeated fits of silence, which were
interrupted by abrupt and disconnected questions or observations. At length,
they were all roused by the maid servant, who, putting her head into the half-
opened door-way, called out:

"Please ma'am, Master wants to know why he beant to have any dinner to-day!"
This very unmistakeable announcement, brought a deep blush to Elizabeth's cheek,
who, interrupting her chat with Tom Musgrove, said:

"Very well, Jenny, I hear." The gentlemen now rose to go, and, to Emma's great
relief, took leave; Elizabeth calling briskly after the maid, as she was shewing
them out, to tell Nanny to take up the fowls immediately. "Well," said she,
drawing a long breath when the room was once more quiet, "what are we to think
of this? I wonder whether Lord Osborne saw the knife-tray? I hope he did not
notice, or what he thinks of us dining at this hour!" "I must say, I think it
was taking an unwarrantable liberty," cried Emma, "calling in this way—very
impertinent and disagreeable—though he is a lord, what right has he to intrude
on us?" "Do you think so, Emma? well, it did not strike me so—I was only hoping
he would not notice the table-cloth or the steel forks. I know they have silver
ones every day at Osborne Castle. I wish Jenny had not began putting out the
things, or had not brought that tiresome message." "He never called here before,
why should he come now without excuse or apology?" persisted Emma. "Why, to see
you to be sure—and very good use he made of his eyes. Now really, Emma, you
ought not to quarrel with him, for it is evidently admiration of you that brings
him here." "I do not care for admiration without respect, Elizabeth, and I hope
the visit will not be repeated." Her father's opinion quite coincided with hers,
when he came to hear of the visit in question. There had been no acquaintance
between old Lord Osborne and himself, he observed, and he would have none with
his son, of whom he had formed a very moderate opinion; and as to Tom Musgrove,
he was always coming when he was not wanted, and scampering after Lord Osborne
in an absurd way: what right had such a Tom Fool as he to interfere with his
dinner hour, or cause the roast fowls to be overdone. CHAPTER IV. The approach
of Christmas week, was to bring the great event of Elizabeth's year—namely, a
visit from her eldest brother and his wife, who were to return with Margaret and
spend a few days at Winston. Elizabeth evidently looked up very much to Mrs.
Robert Watson, who, she assured Emma, had been educated in a very superior way—a
London boarding-school—her father had been very wealthy, and her mother most
genteel; she had, too, an uncle, who was a knight, in London, and quite a
distinguished person there—so that altogether, Jane was an honor to the family,
whilst her talents and taste alone were sufficient to procure distinction in the
first circles. Emma was uncertain, but most anxious to like her sister-in-law;
she felt half amused and half doubtful, whilst Elizabeth enumerated all the
advantages of Robert's grand marriage. However, she exerted herself with the
greatest good-will, to assist in the numerous preparations necessary on such an
occasion. Nothing was too good for Jane—though Emma could hardly help wondering
to see that the drawing-room was to be used—the furniture and mirror
uncovered—the best china produced, and all the plate had out to grace their
visitors. For a brother and sister, she fancied this would have been
unnecessary; and she wished, with a sigh, that there had been more consistency
between their every-day life, and the appearance they were now expected to make.
Elizabeth was one of the worst housekeepers possible; with a little more system
and management, her father's income might have produced a respectable appearance
at all times; but as there was not the smallest attention given by Mr. Watson to
his household affairs, beyond paying the bills, and finding fault with the
dinners, everything was in confusion from one week to another. Elizabeth had
much of the easy, good-natured indolence of her father, but was spurred up by
necessity to unwilling exertions; and ill seconded by her untidy maid servants,
who knew she was too good-natured to scold; she was always excessively put out
of her way by preparations for company. Her total want of arrangement, and the
facility with which she was diverted from one object to another, made her twice
as long as necessary in every occupation. Thus, for instance, it was in vain
that she had promised Emma to return to the china closet, and tell her which
articles would be wanted from thence; for happening to see Jenny awkwardly
attempting to clean some plate, she stayed so long to show her how to do it,
that Emma, in despair of her return, was induced to seek her, and with
difficulty persuaded her to resume her occupation up stairs. Such was her
ordinary mode of proceeding. In spite, however, of these delays, and the loss of
time incurred, the preparations were at length complete; and Elizabeth having
surveyed the dinner-table with much satisfaction, and wished, with a sigh, that
they could keep a foot boy, returned to the drawing-room to wait the arrival of
her visitors. The happy moment shortly arrived, and with much noise and bustle
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Watson, Margaret, and all their luggage were safely lodged
in the family residence. Emma looked with much anxiety at both her unknown
sisters, but at Mrs. Watson first, of course; indeed, few could have helped
that, from the prominence which she assumed. She was a tall, showy-looking
woman, with a high nose, a high colour, and very high feathers in her bonnet.
She seemed much inclined to talk, and received Emma very cordially. Margaret was
excessively affectionate in her manners, clung round her, called her "her dear
new sister," her "darling Emma," pushed back the curls from her cheeks to kiss
her, and spoke in the fondest, most caressing tone. "Well you see, Elizabeth,"
said Mrs. Robert, "I have brought Margaret back; but she is a naughty girl, and
I am much displeased with her, for I want to take her home again to Croydon on
Saturday, and she says she will not go." This was said as Mrs. Robert was
stroking down her long fur tippet, and spreading out her hands at the fire, and
concluded with a playful tap on Margaret's cheek. "Ah, dear Jane," said
Margaret, "you know how I like being with you, but indeed I cannot tear myself
from sweet Emma immediately." "Saturday!" cried Elizabeth; "you surely do not
think of leaving us on Saturday! That will be only three days—only half a visit;
you promised us a week." "Did I?—no, sure I could not have done so: you know I
cannot be so long from my little girl, and she would break her heart without
me." "I wish you could have brought her," said Elizabeth. "Quite impossible, my
dear child, for I never like to take her out without her own maid, and I know
you could not give her a room to herself as she has been used to. I am
excessively particular about her," she continued, turning to Emma, "too
particular, perhaps, but it was the way we were brought up—so you must not blame
me." "Of course not," replied Emma; "for doing what you think right, who could?"
"I am sure," continued this anxious mother, in a tone of great complacency, "I
don't know how the poor little darling will get on without me; she almost cried
her eyes out when she found she was not coming in the chaise, and I was obliged
to pretend I was only going to church, and should be home again very soon." "Oh,
sweet little darling!" cried Margaret; "I do so dote on that child—little
angel!" Just at this moment, the brother entered the room. "I say, Jane," cried
he, "that confounded band-box of yours is squeezed as flat as a pancake, and
your new trunk is too wide to go up these wretched narrow stairs; so what you
are to do I am sure I don't know—dress in the hall, I suppose." "My band-box
squeezed!" cried the lady, in dismay. "I have no doubt my caps are all ruined
absolutely: what shall I do!—how could it happen to my band-box!" "Do anything
but bother me about it, that's all. Ah, Emma," holding out his hand to his
sister, "how do you do. It's a good while since we met, isn't it? I suppose,
Elizabeth, I may go up at once and see my father before dinner?" Elizabeth
assented, and the whole party seemed about to separate. "I suppose, Elizabeth,"
said Margaret, in a tone whose sharpness jarred on Emma's ear and contrasted
with the softness of her voice to herself, "there's no letter for me from Kew,
is there? But I dare say if there were, you would not think of giving it to me
for an hour." Elizabeth assured her there was none, and then quitted the room,
to accompany her sister-in-law, and assist her toilette. "Well, Emma," said
Margaret, resuming her fondling tone, "how do you like Winston? I am sure, but
for one thing, I should never wish to see it again," looking down, and trying to
blush as she spoke; "_one_ attraction it has: have you seen any of the
neighbours?—did you not go to the ball?—do tell me all about it!" "I think we
must go and dress for dinner, Margaret," said Emma. "Well, you can tell me then,
for I suppose," added she, in an injured tone, "you and I are to have one
room—Elizabeth always takes care of herself, and will be sure to put you upon
me." "No," said Emma, "Elizabeth has agreed that I should share her room." "Oh,"
said Margaret—then paused a moment—"well, I was in hopes _we_ should have slept
together—I am sure I shall love you so much, Emma." "I am sure it will give me
great pleasure if you do," replied her sister; "but Margaret, if I cannot be of
use to you, I must go and get ready for dinner myself;" and she hastily escaped
to her own room. When Emma descended again, she found her brother alone in the
drawing-room, leaning over the fire-place, looking at a number of the
"Gentleman's Magazine," which, however, he tossed on the table when Emma
approached. "Well, Emma," said he, lifting his coat-tails, and turning his back
to the fire, "so your aunt has thrown you off, and herself away, has she? A
pretty mess she has made of it with her marriage. Upon my word, women are
entirely unfit to be trusted with money in any shape, and there ought to be a
law against old fools of widows marrying again. How our uncle could be such a
confounded ass as to leave everything in her power, I can _not_ conceive! Any
one could have foreseen what has happened. I hope the young husband will plague
her heart out—no doubt he will lead her a wretched life—she deserves it. But I
think the old gentleman might have given you something—a thousand pounds or so
would have done very well for you, and the rest would have been most
particularly acceptable to me just now. There was an investment offered itself,
a month or two ago, in which I could have, beyond a doubt, doubled five thousand
pounds in a very short time, and it was particularly cutting to be obliged to
let it pass me, because that old man had behaved so shabbily. Upon my life, it
makes me quite angry when I think of it—and just to throw you back upon my
father's hands, without a sixpence—a burden—a useless burden upon the
family—what could he be thinking of!" Emma was too much overcome by the many
bitter feelings this speech raised, to be able to reply; and her brother, seeing
her tears, said:

"Well, I did not mean to make you cry, Emma; there's no good in that—though I do
not wonder that you should be mortified and disappointed too. Girls are nothing
without money—no one can manage them but you shall come and try your luck at
Croydon. Perhaps, with your face, and the idea that you have still expectations,
you might get off our hands altogether. There was a young man at Croydon who was
very near taking Margaret. I really believe, would have had her, if she had only
a couple of thousand pounds, but you can but do your best, so there, don't cry."
Before Emma had time to do more than wipe her eyes, her sister-in-law entered
the room very smart, and in high spirits, to find herself more handsomely
dressed than either of the Miss Watsons. She was much discomposed, however, to
find that her husband had not changed his coat, or dressed his hair. "My dear
Mr. Watson," cried she, "how comes this about? Don't you mean to make yourself
tidy before dinner?" "Do let me alone, Jane," said he, impatiently shaking off
her hand; "I trust I am tidy enough for my wife and sisters." "Oh! but do come
up, for my sake, and put just a sprinkle of powder on your hair? I will do it in
a moment for you. You really look quite undressed; upon my word, I am ashamed of
you. Your coat all dirty, and quite unfit to be seen—do come." "Do go! For
goodness sake, do let me alone," said he, shrugging his shoulders. "You women,
who think of nothing but bedizening yourselves out, fancy we have nothing else
to do either. You are fine enough for us both, so pray let me alone." Mrs.
Watson covered her mortification by an affected laugh, and retreating to the
sofa, cried out:

"Emma, do come, and let me have a little conversation with you, there's a good
girl." Emma coloured, but obeyed the summons; and her sister, after surveying
her dress with satisfaction, seemed, for a moment, to hesitate how to begin.
"You do not dress your hair, Emma, quite _en règle_—you understand French, I
suppose, now look at mine—your curls are too long—really, it's a pity, for you
have pretty hair—a nice color—very much the same as mine. How odd," laughing,
"that you should be so dark—like me—all your sisters quite fair—you should not
put your tucker so high—mine is quite the _ton_—you see how the lace is
arranged—how do you like Winston? I suppose you have not much company? I dare
say, it is dull; you shall come to Croydon, as Margaret will not go back, and I
will shew you a little of the world. Have you been used to much company?" "Not
much," replied Emma. "Well, then, Croydon will be a pleasant change. I wonder at
that, however, I thought your uncle was a man of wealth. My father saw so much
society; and, at my uncle's, Sir Thomas, I am sure I have met the best company
in London." "Indeed," said Emma, not very well knowing what else to say. "In
consequence, I am quite accustomed to move in a gay circle—though my friends
there, tell me, indeed, I am quite the Queen of Croydon. I believe I am rather
looked up to—one is, you know, when one has high relations, and goes to town,
and gets patterns and books from London; now, it's something quite remarkable
the number of houses we visit—and the white gloves I wear out in the year—I am
excessively particular about my gloves; and Margaret, whose hand is small, was
quite glad to take some of mine; and, really, when she had cleaned them a
little, they did very well for her. _I_ seldom wear them a second time. You will
come to Croydon—will you not?" "Thank you, not this winter; you are very kind in
asking me; but I have been so short a time at home." "Oh! but you must: I assure
you, you will have much the best chance in the winter, there are so many more
young men in the country then. But, perhaps, you have left your heart in
Shropshire. Have you any little charming love story to confide to me. Ah! you
may trust me—I assure you I am very discreet—I never betrayed Margaret the least
in the world." Emma again declined the proposed visit to Croydon. Her sister-in-
law looked much surprised, and not quite pleased. "Well I should have thought
our house might have some attractions for a young lady of your age; however, of
course you know best, I hope you will find something more pleasing here." Emma
was spared the trouble of replying by the entrance of Margaret and Elizabeth,
who were immediately engrossed by attentions to Mrs. Robert, which soothed her
into complacency again. Dinner speedily followed; the early hour was a subject
of comment on the part of the visitors. "Dear me, I wonder when I dined at three
o'clock before—really a little change is quite amusing, I am so glad you did not
think it necessary to alter your hour for me." "I certainly would have fixed on
any hour agreeable to you, Jane," replied Miss Watson good humouredly, "but my
father has so long been used to this time, that it would be very unpleasant to
him to alter it. But I dare say it seems very gothic to you." "Oh, pray do not
think any apology necessary, my dear child; you know what an accommodating
creature I am. There is nothing I hate half so much as having a fuss made about
me. Now really in some places where I go, they will make me of so much
importance, treat me so much as a visitor—in short, I may say, look up so much
to me, that upon my word it is quite overpowering." "I know you are very good-
natured, to put up with our deficiencies as you do, Jane," replied Elizabeth
simply and sincerely, "and no doubt they must strike you forcibly. I wish we
could treat you better, but I hope you can make a good meal even at three
o'clock; you see your dinner, all except a roast turkey which is coming
presently." "A roast turkey, Elizabeth!" said her sister-in-law, "after all this
profusion which I see around me. Upon my word, I am ashamed of giving so much
trouble; positively ashamed: such a dinner, and all for me. Really I must forbid
the roast turkey—I insist on that not being brought. I cannot hear that you
should be so put out of your way." "But, my dear Jane," observed Elizabeth,
"since the turkey is roasted, it may as well come in here, as remain in the
kitchen. Besides, I am in hopes my father may be tempted to take some, as it is
a favorite dish of his—so the roast turkey we must have." "Well, as you please,"
said the other lady, "only I hope you will not expect _me_ to take any of it; I
must protest against partaking any of it at all." "Do as you please, Jane," said
her husband, interposing, "but because you reject the turkey, I see no reason
why _I_ should be deprived of it, so I must beg Elizabeth not to mind your
nonsense." The party, after leaving the dining-room, were sitting amicably in
the best parlour, Robert Watson apparently asleep in an easy-chair, and his lady
holding forth to her sisters-in-law about her parties, her acquaintance, and her
manner of living at Croydon, when the sound of carriage wheels on the gravel
under the window, followed by the house-bell, drew their attention and aroused
their curiosity; who could it be? perhaps Penelope, returned suddenly from
Chichester—it was just like her to come without giving notice; perhaps Sam, but
he was so unlikely to come at all—nobody could decide—but the opening door
seconding Jenny's voice, revealed the mystery, and shewed Tom Musgrove! Mr.
Musgrove's share of the surprise was great—quite as great as what he intended to
occasion—when instead of being shewn into the little dingy sitting-room as
usual, and finding the two Miss Watsons sitting, as he expected, by the
melancholy light of a pair of sixes—he was ushered into the best drawing-room,
graced by the uncovered chandelier and best sofa; and encountered in a blaze of
wax candles, which almost dazzled him, a group of ladies dressed for company. He
really hardly knew where he was, and glanced round with excessive astonishment.
"Really, Miss Watson," cried he, whilst shaking hands with her, "I must
apologise for this intrusion; I did not know you had company." "You are
exceedingly welcome," replied Elizabeth, with much more good-nature than Emma
approved. "It is my brother and sister: they only arrived to-day." "Yes," said
Robert, who, on surveying Tom's appearance, so elegant and finished as it
appeared to him, in point of dress, felt much mortification on remembering his
own unpowdered hair, and morning coat; "yes, we have not been long in the
house—not long enough, you see, to change our travelling costume: but just in
time to sit down to dinner." Emma's cheeks glowed in spite of her wishes, at
this speech, and she stole a glance at the wife to see how she bore it. That
lady's eyes seemed merely to speak an internal triumph as she looked at her
husband, as if she meant, at the first convenient opportunity, to enforce the
propriety of Robert's taking her advice in future. "Never apologise for your
dress, my good sir," cried Tom, shaking hands with him; "at least, not to me,
for I shall consider it a reflection on my own vile dishabille. But the fact is,
I was passing this way, being on my return from Osborne Castle, where I have
been spending a few days, and I could not go so near, without just stopping to
enquire how Mr. Watson goes on." Margaret, who ever since his entrance, had been
trying to attract his attention, could now be repulsed no longer. She would
speak, and be spoken to; and the tone and manner in which she addressed Mr.
Musgrove, together with the pains she took to secure his having a chair next her
when they all sat down, showed Emma that she was by no means reduced to despair
about his supposed attachment. "It is long since we have met," said she, in a
soft, whispering voice, looking up in his face with what was intended for an
endearing smile. "A week or two," said he, carelessly. "Fie, naughty man—it is a
month—a whole month—you ought not to be a worse reckoner of time than myself—it
was very kind of you to come and welcome me home." "Don't thank me for that: I
did not know you were here, I assure you; I knew you were not at the ball; but I
thought it was a sore throat, or something of that sort kept you away: have you
really been gone a month!—I could have sworn I saw you a week ago. Your sister
has come, I suppose, since you left?" "Emma! oh yes, charming Emma—imagine my
feelings at meeting her—I was so anxious, but so fearful—timid as I am, you can
fancy how afraid I should feel at meeting a new sister. Can you not understand
the feeling?" "Not the least in the world," cried Tom aloud; "I cannot fancy any
one afraid of meeting Miss Emma Watson." "Is she not lovely—I think her quite
beautiful—but, perhaps, you do not admire dark complexions—tell me, which do you
like best—brunette or blonde." Tom hesitated. Margaret herself was fair, which
would alone have been a sufficient reason for his asserting a preference for an
olive skin—but then Miss Carr was fair likewise—and he was a great admirer of
Miss Carr's. He, therefore, replied evasively—

"Your sister's is, no doubt, a very lovely complexion—I like dark beauties
excessively—but now and then one sees a blonde, whose tint is relieved from the
insipidity which usually attends it—Miss Carr, for instance—did you ever see
Fanny Carr?" "No," said Margaret, almost pouting. "She has the loveliest skin I
ever saw—and a very nice little thing is Fanny Carr, independent of her
complexion—a very nice, lively, bewitching little fairy, with those she
likes—though, to be sure, she can be disagreeable enough, I am told—but, Miss
Watson," continued he, jumping up to put an end to Margaret's whispers, "do let
me help you at the tea-table—why will you not make me of use—pray don't scruple
to call on me—I love to be of use to the fair." "I know no way in which you can
possibly assist me," replied Elizabeth, "until the tea is ready to be handed
round—unless you will talk to and amuse my sister, Mrs. Robert, whilst I am
obliged to sit here." This was a task which exactly suited Tom, as to a married
woman, he might be as gallant as he chose with perfect safety, and he devoted
himself with great zeal to this object. Nothing could prevail upon him to take
tea yet—as he had not dined, and he could not drink tea first. "I dare say you
dined three hours ago," said he, "but I, you know, keep bachelor's hours, and at
Osborne Castle we never sat down to dinner until six or seven o'clock."
"Indeed," said Mrs. Robert, "but you must not suppose that I am used to such
early hours; at Croydon, I dare say it is nearer five than four when _we_ dine."
"That would be too early for me," cried he, with a smile of superiority, "I
would as soon it were three as five—seven, or indeed eight, suits me better; and
I must get home to dinner to-night." It was evident that the fact of his not
having dined, gave him a happy consciousness of vast mental superiority over his
companions. But Emma found herself sadly deceived in the hopes which she had
ventured fondly to cherish, that the dinner awaiting him would hasten his
departure. On the contrary, when the tea-things were removed, and the card-table
produced, a very slight hint from Mrs. Watson was quite sufficient to draw from
him a speech, which beginning with a statement of the necessity of quitting
them, ended, of course, with an assertion of the impossibility of tearing
himself away: and he was then quite ready to join their party; keeping his
dinner still in waiting, as a subject to be reverted to whenever other topics
failed him. "Well, ladies," cried he, "what are we to play—what's your favorite
game, Mrs. Watson." "Oh, we play nothing but Vingt'un at Croydon," said she,
"all the best circles play Vingt'un—it is decidedly the most genteel."
"Vingt'un—hum—very well—let it be vingt'un then," said Tom; "it's a long time
since I played it; Lady Osborne likes loo best—indeed, I believe amongst people
of at certain rank, loo is all the rage—but, however, since you are bent
on—commerce, was that what you said, Mrs. Watson?" "Oh, dear no," cried she,
colouring, and overawed by the superiority of his tone, "I merely mentioned
vingt'un, but I quite agree with you, it _is_ rather a stupid game, and I am
quite tired of it. Suppose we try loo to-night?" And she privately resolved to
store up in her memory the important fact, that Lady Osborne preferred loo to
vingt'un, and on her return to Croydon, astonish her former acquaintance with
her intimate knowledge of her ladyship's taste and habits. "As I happen to
prefer loo to vingt'un," said Robert Watson, ashamed of being supposed to
following any one's fashions, yet, from habitual servility to the great, afraid
of asserting a difference of opinion; "I see no harm in playing it, otherwise,
had I liked any other game better, I should certainly have seen Lady Osborne at
Jericho before I would have allowed her to interfere." An idea crossed Emma's
mind, that in all probability nothing could be farther from Lady Osborne's
wishes or notions, than influencing their choice of a game; and that if their
debate could possibly be revealed to her, she would, perhaps, consider it
impertinent in them, to make her diversions a pattern for theirs. Loo, however,
they were fated to play; and Emma, who hated cards, thought with regret of the
quiet evenings she had formerly enjoyed so much, when chatting over her needle-
work with Elizabeth, or reading at intervals to her father some favourite
author. Their party did not break up until supper-time, of which, of course, Tom
Musgrove was pressed to stay and partake. But he, who was determined to call his
next meal a dinner, felt himself forced to refuse, although, in truth, he would
much rather have accepted the offer, could his vanity have allowed him to follow
his inclination. Mrs. Watson whispered to her sister, to ask him to join them at
dinner the next day, which Elizabeth acceded to with great cordiality. They were
to have a few friends to dinner, and if he could condescend to eat at five
o'clock, perhaps he might find it in other respects agreeable, and they would be
happy to see him. He hesitated and demurred, not from any doubt as to his final
determination, but because he meant to give his acceptance a greater grace. "As
I am well aware of Mr. Musgrove's habits of intimacy with my sister," said Mrs.
Watson, simpering; "I shall conclude, if he refuses now, it is poor unfortunate
_me_, whom he despises and avoids." "My dear Mrs. Watson," cried he, "you
prevent my saying another word; everything must give way before such an
accusation. Even if Lord Osborne himself sends for me—which is not unlikely—I
shall refuse to attend on him for your sake. Only do not expect me, Miss Watson,
to make any figure at your hospitable board. I shall be happy to look on, as a
spectator, but eating indeed must be quite out of the question." "Very well; you
shall do as you please, remember five o'clock." "What a very delightful young
man," cried Mrs. Watson, as soon as he left the room. "Upon my word, I do not
know when I have met one more perfectly well bred and gentleman-like. I look
upon myself to be a pretty good judge—having had much opportunity of
judging—more than most young women, both at my dear father's, and my uncle Sir
Thomas's; and, really, in my poor taste, he is quite the thing. Such charming
vivacity, and yet, such attention when one speaks—and he really seems to
understand and appreciate one's feelings and sentiments so thoroughly—and such a
graceful bow; I assure you I am quite delighted." Elizabeth cast a triumphant
look at Emma, as much as to say:

"Now, what do you say?" but Emma's judgment was not to be lightly shaken.
Margaret looked down amiably modest and tried to blush, whilst she whispered:

"I am so glad _you_ liked him. I knew you would! Was it not attentive to call
to-day!" from which Emma inferred, that she took the compliment of his call
entirely to herself. CHAPTER V.

It was to be a very grand thing, indeed, the next day; and Elizabeth, seldom
entertaining company, was quite in a fidget about the dinner, and tormented Emma
all the time she was undressing, with questions, which could not be answered,
and fears which could not be dispelled. "Suppose Mr. Robinson were to be very
cross, Emma, you cannot imagine how disagreeable he is then—or only fancy if the
soup turns out ill, what shall I do? Do you really think my black satin gown
good enough; I think nobody will see, by candle-light, where the cream was
spilt; and it does not look ill—how tired you look, Emma; well, I will not tease
you, only I want to know how did my aunt manage about—oh! by-the-bye, I'll ask
Jane that." So Emma never learnt what it was, being too weary to ask. A short
silence followed. "Now you see," burst out Elizabeth afresh, "you see, Emma,
what Jane thinks of Tom Musgrove—you must change your mind." "No, indeed; her
liking him can make no difference to me," replied Emma, quietly. "Oh, Emma! I
did not think you so conceited, to think of your setting up your opinion against
Jane's, a married woman, and so much older and more experienced; I could not
have expected it." "I do not set up my opinion against her, I only differ in
taste," said her sister meekly, being very anxious to be allowed to go to sleep.
"You are quite impracticable, and, I fear, very obstinate," returned Elizabeth,
with a gravity which made Emma smile in spite of her weariness. Then followed
another long silence, and she was dropping into a comfortable slumber, when she
was startled by Elizabeth springing up, and exclaiming: "Oh! I quite forgot—what
shall I do?" "What is the matter?" enquired Emma, quite alarmed. "Why, I forgot
to tell Nanny to be sure and put the custards into the safe, for there's a hole
in the corner of the larder, where the cat gets in, and she will be certain to
eat them all before morning." "Oh," said Emma, as her eyes again closed
irresistibly, and whether or not her sister quitted her bed to go down and
rectify her error, she could not tell, for she, at length, dropped fast asleep.
Emma spent the greater part of the next day in her father's room. It was much
more agreeable to her than the drawing-room; and Elizabeth, with all her good
qualities, was not equal to her as a nurse, and really loved society and
conversation, or rather chit-chat, so much as to be very glad to believe her
sister's assertion, that she took pleasure in attending on her father. Mr.
Watson, though indolent and self-indulgent, was a scholar, and enjoyed the
pursuits of literature when not attended by too much labour. Emma found, as he
recovered, that there was much to be gained by intercourse with him: she read to
him both in English and French, and only regretted that she could not also
assist him in Latin or Greek. Hour after hour she had devoted to amusing him,
and felt herself well repaid by the affection he manifested in return; and now
that the society down stairs, of course, compelled Elizabeth to absent herself,
she rejoiced that it made her presence doubly necessary. She could not like her
sister-in-law—she saw so much of peevishness in Margaret's general manner as to
expect the same would be manifested to her, and Robert had so pained and shocked
her by their first _tête-à-tête_, that she never approached him without dread
lest he should renew so painful a subject. A proposal to remain with her father
all the evening, instead of appearing at dinner was negatived. He would not
permit her to do so, as it really was not necessary for his comfort, and he
expected amusement from her description of the dinner-party after it was over.
It was not a very large one; the size of their dining-parlour forbade
that—besides their own party of five, there made their appearance Mr. and Mrs.
Robinson, the country apothecary and his wife; Mrs. Steady, the widow of a
former curate, who lived in the village, and Mr. Martin, who was doing duty for
their father during his illness. To these had been added, as we already know,
Tom Musgrove; and happy would it have been for the others had he been omitted,
as it was impossible for so fashionable a young man to be guilty of such rustic
simplicity as to be punctual. The guests whose appetites were set to that
particular hour, displayed sundry symptoms of extreme impatience, and Robert
Watson vented certain unintelligible ejaculations which were commonly supposed
to be murmurs at his tardiness. Mr. Martin, a very absent individual, not having
his wife at hand to remind him where he was, leant his head on his hand, and
fell into a fit of abstraction. Mr. Robinson, who was making himself agreeable
to Mrs. Watson, internally comforted himself with the hope that this long fast
would be productive of evil to their digestive faculties, which he should be
called in to set to rights. Mrs. Steady was condoling with Elizabeth on the
expected consequences of this delay, anticipating that the beef would be over
roasted, and the chickens boiled to rags, and comparing this ill-bred
fashionable behaviour with the regularity and decorum of her late lamented
Steady. Emma was laboriously trying to talk to Mrs. Robinson, who looked all the
while as if she thought that somehow the delay was all her fault, and feared to
drop out a syllable, lest she should be punished for it; whilst Margaret who had
dressed herself with unusual care, sat in a state of feverish impatience by the
side of her sister-in-law, whispering to her, every few minutes, that she was
sure some shocking accident had happened to _him_—_he_ little knew the misery he
caused her—and other ejaculations of a similar character. Half an hour passed in
this manner, when Robert approached his sister, in a glow of indignant hunger
that could be no longer suppressed. "Really, Elizabeth, I think this is too
bad—there's no occasion that we should all starve, because that young fellow is
not hungry—ten to one but he has forgotten his engagement, and we may wait till
supper time for our meal, and he none the better. Do order dinner, I say, and
leave him in the lurch for his inattention." "Oh fie, my dear Mr. Watson!" cried
his wife, quite shocked to think her husband should be guilty of the vulgarity
of having an appetite; "Oh fie—sit down to dinner without our guest—you cannot
really think of such a thing; you cannot possibly mean it—what does it matter if
we dine now, or an hour hence? I am sure _we_ do not keep such early hours
ourselves. I have seen too much of fashionable life to be much surprised at his
tardiness. You cannot expect punctuality from such a very agreeable, pleasant
young man!" "Pooh, pooh, Jane, I tell you, you know nothing about it. I cannot
expect pleasure from such a very unpunctual young man—that's what you should
say—it's very rude,—and he is very ill bred—and would never do for business."
"Business! Tom Musgrove do for business!" cried Margaret, indignantly, "I should
think not—whoever thought of business and Tom Musgrove in the same breath?" "Not
many, I dare say," observed Robert, contemptuously, "but if he has no business
to occupy him, the less excuse is there for his preposterous conduct." "My
dear," said Mrs. Watson, with decision; "he is very genteel—and genteel people,
when they have an independent fortune, are not obliged to be so regular as
others—Tom Musgrove is very genteel." "You know nothing about it," cried Robert,
snappishly—for when a man is hungry, he not only dislikes contradiction himself,
but, invariably, is liberal with it to others. "If a man simpers and whispers,
and makes a few pretty—pretty speeches to _you_ women, you set him down,
forsooth, as very genteel—though he never pays a bill—if he can help it—is
supercilious to his equals—and keeps a whole party waiting for dinner. Plague
take such gentility, say I. Elizabeth, I shall ring the bell for dinner." He did
as he said, whilst his wife sat ruffling up and swelling with indignation at his
retort. Determined not to hear her he walked away and stationed himself at the
window, which commanded a view of the road. She, not able to address him, and
resolved he should know her opinion, audibly exclaimed—to her neighbour—that she
_did_ know what gentility was, for she had seen a great of genteel company at
Sir Thomas's—and that great allowances were to be made for young men who were
always wild and eccentric creatures. Emma, who heard all this, could not help
mentally considering where those allowances were to cease, since Mrs. Watson did
not seem disposed to make them for her husband—though, in her judgment he seemed
the person most entitled to claim them. Perhaps he had outgrown his right—or
exhausted his share—possibly, the title to them ceased at marriage—or, may be,
his wife alone was not called on to accommodate him in that way. In the present
instance, as she was remarkably hungry, she was glad Robert carried his point,
and she walked into dinner with not one degree less of pleasure, because Mr.
Musgrove was not there. A dinner party, like the present, was not likely to be
productive of much that could be called conversation. Mr. Robinson contradicted
Mr. Martin about the laws concerning poor-rates; and, after being meekly yielded
to by that worthy divine, found himself in his turn, pronounced perfectly
misinformed, and laboring under an erroneous impression by his good friend,
Robert Watson—who just allowed him to go on long enough on a subject of which he
was ignorant, to give himself an opportunity of triumphing over him. Just as Mr.
Robinson was beginning to look very purple and red, and to glance at his wife to
see how _she_ looked—and just as poor, humble, meek, Mrs. Robinson was hurriedly
talking nonsense to Emma about green peas, in order to shew that she did not
notice her master's defeat, the door opened and Tom Musgrove bustled into the
room. "Beg ten thousand pardons, Miss Watson," cried he, ostentatiously parading
up to her, "But, upon my word and honor, I could _not_ get here sooner." ("Whose
fault was that?" muttered Robert.) "Can't think how it happened." ("Only because
you started too late.") "I am excessively sorry—glad you didn't think it
necessary to wait." ("Confound the puppy—does he think we are an hour eating our
soup.") "Pray don't make any difference for me. I dare say I can make a dinner
of what I see. The mutton, no doubt, as good cold as hot." ("Good enough for
you, any way.") "Pray don't send for the soup again! It is not in the least
necessary." "Well, since you are so kind as to say so," said Elizabeth, simply,
"I will let you do as you please—I dare say the soup will not be very good
now—and it's not pleasant, I know, to have it back! Simson is handing you a
chair—pray sit down;" and as she spoke—the waiter, who was no other than the
parish clerk, acting for the night in this capacity, thrust a chair against Mr.
Musgrove's legs with such zeal, as very nearly upset him, and quite caused him
to jog Mrs. Steady's elbow as she was in the act of lifting a glass to her lips,
much to the damage of her respectable grey silk gown. When things come to the
worst, they must mend—so says the proverb—and the company found it true on this
occasion, so far as the disagreeable noise and bustle of his entrance was
concerned. But this was not the case with Tom himself—who, really chilled and
hungry, sat down to only half a dinner, more than half cold—and whose vanity
compelled him to abstain even from what was yet before him, lest he should be
supposed guilty of the vulgarity of having an appetite. Had the struggles of his
mind been exposed, perhaps, even Emma might have pitied him—or, at least, have
admired the heroic constancy with which he sacrificed himself at the shrine of
fashionable indifference. Unknown and unnoticed, however, were the efforts of
his self-denial, and like modest worth, or unpatronised genius, they found their
only reward in the internal satisfaction of his mind. As, however, he was a
talker by profession, and always inclined to lead in conversation, their party
gained much in liveliness, by the addition of his society. He flattered Mr.
Watson—joked with Elizabeth—quizzed Mrs. Steady—and threw admiring glances at
Emma, with laudable mirth and perseverance. Mrs. Robinson was soothed—Robert
Watson silenced—and Mr. Martin aroused by his jocularity—whilst poor Mrs.
Robinson was actually able to finish her dinner in tolerable comfort, so much
was her husband's brow cleared from the threatened storm, which had before
alarmed her. With secret weariness, Emma watched for the signal to withdraw from
the dinner-table, but Elizabeth was too much entertained to be at all in a hurry
to rise, and it was, at length, to Mrs. Robert Watson that her thanks for a
release were due. Emma almost forgave her assumption on the occasion, in
consideration of the beneficial effects arising from it. It was in vain,
however, to hope that release from weariness would follow a secession from the
dinner-table; everything seemed so intolerably dull, that she was enraged with
herself for her own stupidity, feeling convinced that the want of interest in
all around her must arise from too much self-engrossment; she tried accordingly
to school herself into listening to the platitudes of Mrs. Steady, or the
boastings of her sister-in-law with something like attention; but she tried in
vain; her mind was continually wandering away to some distant subject, or was
only recalled to the objects present, to calculate the number of minutes before
the probable time of their departure. She did not doubt their being all amiable
and excellent persons; but they certainly were not interesting characters; Mrs.
Steady, in particular, next whom she was seated, seemed much fitter to knit
stockings or make jam, than to keep up an intellectual conversation. The
weariest evenings, however, have an end: and this, like all others, terminated
at last. Whist and loo—even the supper itself—were all finished; and when Mr.
Martin had succeeded in putting on Robert's great coat; and secured, instead of
his own, the old clerk's hat, which had been carefully hidden behind the door,
he, the last of the party, disappeared, and Emma stole away without waiting to
hear her brother Robert's animadversions on the dinner. The succeeding day was
much too wet and stormy to allow any of the females the relief of change of air
and scene; but Emma, in the stronghold of her father's apartment, felt less
disturbed than she could have expected. If there was storm abroad, there was
anything but fair weather within the house. Mrs. Watson was affronted with her
husband, and revenged herself by praising Tom Musgrove, and indulging in severe
strictures on those whose birth and early education incapacitated them from
judging of manners and fashion. These refined and elegant inuendos had all the
effect she could desire—irritating her husband the more, because he could not
treat them as personal and offensive, without at the same time admitting the
implied inferiority of his situation in life, and opportunities of information
and improvement. Accordingly, he could only testify his extreme displeasure by a
general crossness to all around him, never speaking except when an opportunity
to say something disagreeable presented itself. The novelty of such a domestic
scene, by no means gave it any charms in Emma's eyes, and she could not help
considering that if Jane was annoyed by her husband's temper, it would, at
least, be wiser to try to soothe and amend it, than, by irritating his
infirmity, encrease the source of her own discomfort. The pleasure of fretting
and galling any one, was beyond her comprehension, requiring abilities and
understanding, similar to those of her sister-in-law, properly to appreciate.
Compared with this scene of strife, her father's company was perfect happiness,
and she delighted in burying her own discomforts in a volume of Shakespeare, or
Boswell's delightful reminiscences of his idol. Yet Elizabeth seemed really to
regret that the visit was so short, and tried, though vainly, to persuade both
her brother and wife to prolong their stay. Robert was determined to go on
Saturday; and Jane, who knew it would be vain to oppose him, wisely took her
part with a good grace, and resolved to make it appear to be her own free will
likewise. "It is not the slightest use to press me, Elizabeth," he said, with
more truth than graciousness; "you know I can be a very determined character
when I please. I flatter myself, I have as much firmness and decision of mind,
as any woman in England. When I have taken a resolution, I _have_ taken it."
"But why take this resolution, Jane; if Robert must go to business, why not stay
here by yourself, and let us have a little time to enjoy your society." "It is
very strange," said the lady, affecting to laugh, and turning to Emma. "I always
have such extreme difficulty in getting away from this sister of yours. Indeed,
I may say the same of all, or most of my friends. 'My dear Mrs. Watson, do
come!' writes one. 'My dearest friend, you must stay' cries another. I am
positively torn to pieces between them all. My sweet friend Lady Browning was
just the same when I was with her at Clifton—upon my word, it's quite
distressing." Emma was saved the trouble of answering by Elizabeth again
interposing. "You would have no trouble at all if you would only yield now—there
is nothing to prevent you." "My dear Elizabeth, you who are not a wife and a
mother can little understand the feelings of one filling such a doubly
responsible situation. I am absolutely dying to get back to my little darling
Marianne." "What a pity that you could not bring her," said Elizabeth; "but
still, I dare say, she could do very well without you for a day or two more."
Before Mrs. Watson had time to answer, her husband returned to the parlour. "I
have been trying to persuade Jane to prolong her visit, Robert; I do so wish you
could both remain." "It's no use to bother, Elizabeth," replied he, roughly; "I
cannot stay, and Jane shall not, and there's an end of it." "Well, I can only
say I am very sorry; I am sure we shall be dreadfully dull when you are gone."
Even this prospect caused no relenting in the heart of the obdurate Robert, who
still persisted in his plan, perhaps, with the more zest because he delighted in
tormenting both his wife and sisters. "When shall you come and see us at
Croydon, Elizabeth?" said her sister-in-law, after a short pause; "there are
several things I want very much to show you. You should see the curtains—the new
curtains in the drawing-room—they look so handsome—all my choice: it is not
everybody who can choose curtains to advantage—requires great tact and
judgment." "It does not require any marvellous judgment to empty a husband's
purse, guessing from the wonderful facility some ladies of my acquaintance
display," growled Robert, from behind the Weekly London Newspaper, which his
father took in second-hand. "Positively, this paper is a fortnight old: what a
place—I saw it before I left Croydon—one might as well be buried alive!" During
this soliloquy, Elizabeth without listening in the least to her brother, was
eagerly replying to Mrs. Robert's offer. "You are extremely kind Jane, to give
me such pleasure; you know there is nothing I should like better, but I must not
think of it—indeed I must not. I do not think my father would like my leaving
home whilst he is so ill. Margaret is so useless a housekeeper, and hates the
trouble so much—and Emma being the youngest, perhaps it would not do: if Pen
were at home, it would be different: she makes a capital housekeeper, and she
amuses my father when he is well too—I think when Pen comes back, I think I
might be tempted." "I should think our house might offer a very pleasant change
to any young lady shut up so much as you are in this miserable place. I am sure
most of my friends are more anxious to stay than go." "Oh, it is not that I
doubt the pleasure," replied Elizabeth; "it would be a great treat to me, I am
sure. But you must not be angry at my refusing now." "Angry! I am not a person
to be angry about trifles—it is not my way to fret or take on, I leave that for
those who have no other way of showing their dignity but by growling at
everything. People blessed with my birth and education need not resort to such
pitiful means to look grand and important." Emma sighed many times to see the
temper of her brother so uncomfortably irritable, and grieved again and again in
secret, over the destruction of some of her most fondly cherished hopes. All her
life she had wished for fraternal affection; much as she had loved her uncle and
aunt, she had always wished to know and love her brothers and sisters. The vain
wishes she had expended on this subject now rose up to haunt her memory with the
thought that she had been ungratefully slighting the good she had enjoyed, for
the sake of unknown objects which still evaded her. True she was now acquainted
with five members of her family; but of these how little there was to attach, in
the three last met, she hardly liked to own even to herself. Robert was surly;
Jane conceited, Margaret fretful—and all seemed self-occupied. She tried to
check these thoughts, she was shocked at her own wickedness in conceiving such
things, but the feeling was there, even when not clothed in words, and she could
not eradicate it. Elizabeth she dearly loved already, but from what she heard,
she fancied Penelope would not be very agreeable—and her last hope was in Sam.
If he would only love her—be a friend, a companion to her—she still flattered
herself this was possible, for Elizabeth certainly seemed to like him, and one
letter of his, which Emma had heard, gave her a favorable impression of his
character. With the fond idea of being loved by one brother at least, at some
future time, Emma saw her eldest brother and his wife depart without any of the
regret which afflicted both her other sisters, having strong internal
convictions that the house would be now more peaceable. CHAPTER VI. "What are
you going to do this morning, Elizabeth?" inquired Margaret in a voice between
langour and peevishness. "Oh, I have a hundred things to do," cried Miss Watson,
turning from the window where she had watched her brother and his wife drive
off. "I must go and see about helping Nanny put away the best china and glass,
and I must pin up the curtains, and put by all the things in the best bed-
room—which were had out for Jane's use; and I want to try that receipt she gave
me for a pudding for my father—and fifty other things beside." "Then you will
not think of walking, I presume; shall you Emma?" "I am not sure," replied she,
"is it not very dirty!" "Good gracious, Emma!" cried Margaret sharply, "I hope
you are not such a fine lady as to mind stepping out in a little mud, or what is
to become of me—I cannot bear walking alone, and Elizabeth is sure to be busy
when I want her company." "Perhaps," said Emma gently, rather afraid of giving
offence by suggesting so evident a duty, "if we were to help Elizabeth, she
would have done in time to join you and enjoy the fine weather." "I don't
suppose she wants us a bit," cried Margaret again. "Thank you, Emma," replied
her eldest sister, without listening to Margaret, "but do not put off your walk
on my account, I am used to these things, and mind the trouble no more than you
do threading your needle, or finding your place in a book," and taking her key-
basket from the table, she left the room. "There, I told you so," said Margaret
immediately, "I knew Elizabeth disdains all assistance, and hates to be
interfered with in her housekeeping: she is as jealous of her authority as
possible, and I believe would rather go through any trouble herself, than allow
us to share it for half an hour. Now just make haste, do, and put your pelisse
on; I like the finest part of the day." Emma still hesitated—

"I am not sure that I can go with you—perhaps my father may want me." "My father
want you!" repeated Margaret in a tone of astonishment, and with a look of
surprise and incredulity, which Emma thought the announcement did not justify,
"why what in all the world should he want _you_ for?" "I read to him a great
deal," replied Emma colouring, lest her sister should suppose she meant to
suggest a comparison between their relative conduct; for Margaret in general
acted as if her father and his comfort were the objects of the slightest
importance to her. "What a bore that must be," continued Margaret; "at least it
is to me, if not to you," added she, as Emma exclaimed at the idea—"for now you
have that as an excuse for not walking with me. I know what it is, you don't
want to come—and you might just as well say so at once, and not worry me by all
these put offs." "Indeed I shall be very happy to walk with you," said Emma, in
a soothing tone, "if I my father can spare me; I will just run up and see, and
if so, we can go directly." Mr. Watson happened to be occupied by letters of
business; in which he did not need Emma's help, and accordingly the sisters set
off together. They took the road towards the town, Margaret saying nothing as to
their object, and Emma making no enquiries. Indeed it did not occur to her that
her sister had any other motive for walking than the desire of air and exercise.
"I have hardly had time to talk to you, Emma, since I came home; but the fact
is, Jane is so fond of me, that when we are together she seldom can spare me ten
minutes. She is an amazingly clever woman, I assure you, and one of the best
judges of character and manners I ever saw." This assertion, though Emma
believed it might be perfectly true, did not convey to her mind precisely the
idea which Margaret expected; and it rather convinced her of the narrow circle
in which her sister had always moved, than the depth of Mrs. Robert's
penetration, or the extent of Margaret's own virtues. She did not, however,
dissent from the praise, and her sister went on complacently. "I am sure, Emma
you must be struck with Tom Musgrove's manners—is he not delightful?" enquired
she, when her dissertation on Croydon was ended. "I cannot say that I admire him
at all," replied Emma firmly. "Not admire him!" cried Margaret, for a moment
aghast at such heresy—then recollecting herself, she added, "ah, I suppose you
mean he did not admire _you_—he did not dance with you at the ball I know; I
dare say, too, he was not in spirits—if I had been there it would have been
different; if you knew him as well as I and had received as much attention from
him, and knew what he thought of yourself as I do, you would see him with very
different eyes." "I shall be quite satisfied to view him always with as much
indifference as I do now," said Emma, "and I trust, even if his manners should
improve, or my taste alter, I shall be able to look on him without causing you
any anxiety by excessive admiration. Elizabeth tells me he has made sad inroads
on the peace of most young ladies hereabouts; I hope he will spare me, as I
suppose I must not flatter myself with being wiser or steadier than other
girls." "Elizabeth only says so from jealousy," cried Margaret indignantly, "he
never paid her any attentions, and so—but good gracious, Emma," added she,
interrupting herself and looking behind, "there he is coming, and some others
with him—who can they be, only one wears a red coat—I did not expect them so
soon." "Did you expect him at all?" said Emma, colouring with astonishment—"Is
it possible you walked here to meet him?" "Well, and where's the harm if I did—I
wish you would just look at those other two gentlemen, and tell me if you know
who they are!" "Indeed," replied Emma, vexed and embarrassed, "I do not like to
look round in that way; it does not seem—at least I have been told it is not
lady-like to turn round and stare at people—but, Margaret, is it really the
case, that you came here with this view?" "Pooh, pooh, how can you be so
tiresome, didn't you know as well as me, that the hounds were to meet at Ashley
Lodge—I thought most likely Tom Musgrove would come this way, it is his direct
road; but I wish I could make out who it is with him; they are just putting
their horses into a trot,—I declare I believe it is Lord Osborne and Mr.
Howard—how tiresome now—for Tom will not stop when Lord Osborne is there—how
very provoking!" "If I had known this," said Emma blushing painfully, "nothing
would have persuaded me to come this way—they will think we did it to meet
them—"

The gentlemen were now come so near, that Emma's concluding words were lost in
the noise produced by the sharp trot of several horses. She was thinking rather
uncomfortably about what Mr. Howard would think, and whether _he_ would suppose
she had walked out to throw herself in Lord Osborne's way, when the gentlemen
suddenly drew up beside the high, narrow foot-path on which the sisters were
walking. "Miss Emma Watson," cried Lord Osborne, as he threw himself from his
horse, which he hastily resigned to the groom, "by Jove! how lucky I am to have
come this way—so you are come out to see the hounds throw off? I am so glad to
have met you." Tom Musgrove dismounted in imitation of his noble friend; but, as
the path only admitted two, he was obliged to draw back—and, whilst Lord Osborne
walked by the side of Emma, Tom was exposed, without defence, to the appealing
glances and soft whispers of Margaret. Emma saw, with a sort of concern, which
she could not exactly analyse, that Mr. Howard remained on horseback, and only
acknowledged his former partner by a bow, much colder and more formal than his
reminiscences at the visitation had led her to expect. Whilst she was wondering
at the change, her companion was trying to be as agreeable as nature would allow
him, and she could almost have laughed outright at the air of deference and
attention with which the dashing Tom Musgrove listened to his lordship's
remarks, and confirmed any of his statements which required support. Thus they
had walked for more than five minutes, when they reached a bend of the road,
where another branch of the lane opened to them, which Emma knew would lead them
almost directly home. "Margaret," said she, turning to her sister, "I think we
had better return this way, we may, perhaps, be wanted at home before we can
reach it." "I am sure I am quite ready to go," said Margaret, apparently on the
point of bursting into tears of spite and envy at finding it useless to attempt
to fix Tom's attention on herself. "I thought you were come here on purpose to
see the hounds throw off," said Lord Osborne to Emma, "and what's the use of
going home before you reach the cover." "Indeed you were mistaken, my lord,"
replied Emma calmly, but decidedly; "for I was not aware till we saw you, that
the hounds met in this neighbourhood!" "Well, but do come on now, you are so
near—my sister and Miss Carr are to be there, and I want to introduce you to
them." "Your lordship must be perfectly aware that what you propose is
impossible," replied Emma, "I have no claim to intrude on Miss Osborne's notice,
and she would, probably, be far more surprised than pleased by such an
extraordinary step." "No, indeed, on my honor, my sister wishes to know you—Tom
Musgrove knows what she said about it last night—" looking over his shoulder at
his friend, but going on speaking too eagerly to allow time for more than a
simple assent from Tom. "I believe I was wrong in what I said, which, I suppose,
is what you mean, I want to introduce my sister to you—is that right?" Emma
could not quite control a smile; "so now you will just come on with us, without
stopping here any longer." "I am much obliged to you, my lord; but, indeed, I
cannot comply with your request; and as Miss Osborne would not be expecting to
meet us to-day, she will experience no disappointment." Very reluctantly the
young nobleman was obliged to give up his proposition; and, as they rode way, he
suddenly turned towards Tom Musgrove, after some minutes' silence, and
exclaimed:

"I say, Musgrove, how is it you manage with women to make them worship you
so—Emma Watson is the only girl I ever _tried_ to please, and she seems to
delight in refusing everything I propose. I can make no way with her." Tom's
self-complacency was very near betraying him into a serious blunder at this
speech; for he was on the point of assenting to the proposition that he was more
successful in making fools of young women than Lord Osborne. Fortunately, he
recollected in time, that however agreeable a strenuous support to his
lordship's opinions might be under ordinary circumstances, there were occasions
when a well turned negative was far more flattering. Lord Osborne, like many
other people, might depreciate himself—but he could not wish his friends to take
the same view of the subject; Musgrove, therefore, judiciously replied, that
Miss Emma Watson had treated him precisely the same, from which he concluded it
was her way. The sisters, in the meantime, were pursuing their path homewards,
whilst Margaret was raining questions on Emma as to the commencement and
progress of her acquaintance with Lord Osborne,—an event which seemed to her so
very astonishing, as only to be surpassed by the cool and composed manner with
which Emma treated the affair. Tom Musgrove's intimacy at Osborne Castle, had
always greatly elevated his importance in her eyes; yet here was her own sister,
who not only had walked side by side with the peer himself, but had positively
refused to accompany him farther, in spite of his entreaties; and she now wound
it all up by coolly declaring, that she thought Lord Osborne very far from an
agreeable young man, and had no wish to see more of him. Emma was a perfect
enigma to her sister, and but for a feeling of awe, which such exalted
acquaintance had impressed on her mind, Margaret would have railed at her for
her refusal to walk further. She was silently pondering on these extraordinary
circumstances, when she was roused by the angry bark of a fierce dog—which
rushing from the farm-yard, took up a position in the centre of the way, and
seemed determined to dispute the passage. Margaret, screaming aloud, turned to
run away, and Emma's first impulse was to follow her example; but a moment's
consideration checked her, and she attempted to soothe or overcome the animal by
speaking gently, and looking fixedly at him. She was so far successful, that his
bark sunk into a low irritable growl, and Emma profited by the comparative
silence to address a man in the farm-yard, and beg him to call back the dog. "He
woant hurt thee, Missus," was the reply of the countryman, who seemed, in
reality, rather amused at the fright of the young ladies. "But my sister is
afraid to pass him," said Emma, imploringly, looking round at Margaret who was
standing at the distance of a hundred yards, and evidently prepared again to
take flight at the smallest aggressive movement of the enemy. "Thy sister must
jist make up her moinde to pass as other foalk do—unless you chose to go athert
the field yonder, to get out of him's way." "Athert the field," Emma concluded
they must go, as Margaret would not advance; and she was about reluctantly to
turn back, when the sound of horse's hoofs was heard, and the next moment Mr.
Howard appeared advancing towards them. A glance shewed him the dilemma in which
the ladies were placed, and he was as quick in overcoming as in comprehending
their difficulties. A well aimed blow of his whip sent the aggressor yelping to
his kennel, and a sharp reproof to his master followed, for not interfering in
their favour, accompanied with a hint about the necessity of confining his dog,
if he did not wish to have it indicted. Mr. Howard was too well known for his
word to be disputed or his reproofs resented; the farmer promised it should not
happen again—peace was restored, and under Mr. Howard's protection, even
Margaret ventured to pass. "I thought you were going to hunt," said Emma, in
reply to his offer to see them safely out of reach of their terrible foe. Mr.
Howard said he had only ridden out for pleasure, not for so important and
imperative a business as fox-hunting: it was evident, however, that he
considered walking with the Miss Watsons quite as pleasant as riding, and that
he was in no hurry to remount. "Would you allow my sister to do herself the
honour of calling on you?" said he, presently; "your kindness to her little boy
has quite captivated her, and Charles is as anxious as herself to carry on the
acquaintance so happily begun. She has been ill since the assembly or the offer
would have been made sooner." Emma coloured highly, but from very pleasurable
feelings at this speech, and readily professed that it would give her great
pleasure to become better acquainted both with Charles and his mother. "I was
almost afraid to propose it," said Mr. Howard, "when I heard the bad success of
Lord Osborne's negotiation for a similar point: you do not really mean to refuse
Miss Osborne's overtures." "They must be made in a different way," said Emma,
"before I am tempted to accept them; or, indeed, to believe that anything more
is intended than to make me look ridiculous." "You do less than justice both to
yourself and to my friends," said Mr. Howard, gently, "I assure you, the wish
was really expressed by Miss Osborne; and though my pupil blundered in making it
known, I am certain it was entirely from want of self-possession, not from want
of respect." Emma did not answer; she was trying to ascertain whether the
gratified feeling she experienced, at the moment, arose from the wish ascribed
to Miss Osborne, or the anxiety shown by Mr. Howard to set those wishes in a
proper light. A pause soon afterwards occurring in the conversation, Margaret
seized the opportunity, and leaning past her sister, addressed Mr. Howard in an
earnest and anxious manner—

"Is it really true, Mr. Howard, that Miss Carr is so very beautifully fair?"
"She is certainly very fair," replied he, rather astonished at the question, "I
do not know that I ever saw a whiter skin; but is it possible that her
complexion can be a subject of discussion or interest in your village?" "I do
not know," replied Margaret, not at all understanding him; "Mr. Musgrove is a
great deal at the castle, is he not?" "Yes often, I believe," said Mr. Howard,
quietly. "I do not wonder at it—he must be a great favorite with the ladies, no
doubt," continued she; "I should think his manners must recommend him
everywhere." "I fancy his intimacy at the castle is more owing to Lord Osborne's
partiality than that of his mother or sister," said he, still in a reserved tone
of voice, as if not wishing to discuss the domestic circle of the Osbornes; yet
there was a suppressed smile on his mouth, which Emma construed into amusement
at the idea of Miss Osborne's admiring her brother's hanger-on; and she silently
diverted herself with fancying the probable degree of esteem which his
complaisance and flattery would win for him. CHAPTER VII. Mr. Howard did not
leave the girls until they had reached their own gate, and then with a quiet but
decided assurance that he would soon bring his sister, he mounted his horse, and
rode homewards. "Well, Emma," said Margaret, as they entered the parlour
together, "I wish every body had your luck; I cannot see why I should not have
such great friends, yet I dare say, I have been to fifty assemblies, and never
was a bit the nearer knowing Lord Osborne or any of his set—how you managed it,
I am sure I cannot guess." "It was only because Emma is both good-natured and
pretty," said Elizabeth, looking up from the sofa-cover she was assiduously
mending. "Emma is not the first pretty girl who has been seen in those rooms, I
believe," said Margaret sharply; "and I should like to know what being good-
natured has to do with it!" "It made her offer to dance with little Charles
Willis—and by that means please his uncle and mother; it was her kindness and
good-nature did that." "No it was not; it was because she was so lucky as to sit
next the boy; if she had been at the other end of the room, all the good-nature
in the world would have been of no use—it was all her good luck." "And if you
had sat next to him the whole evening, should you have thought of offering to be
his partner, Margaret?" enquired Elizabeth. "Very likely not—I hate dancing with
boys. But I don't understand how Emma got acquainted with Lord Osborne." "And I
cannot at all comprehend what makes your head so full of the Osbornes this
morning," replied Elizabeth. "Why we met them all this morning, and first there
was Lord Osborne walking and talking with Emma, and then Mr. Howard—there never
was anything like it—he came right up to the garden-gate before he left us."
"Did he indeed!" cried Elizabeth. "Do you mean Lord Osborne?" Margaret
explained, but her account was so tinctured with jealousy that Elizabeth,
curious and unsatisfied, ran up after Emma who had left the room at the
commencement of this discussion, to ascertain the truth from her. Even when Emma
had related everything to her sister, it seemed almost incredible—that Lord
Osborne should have proposed such an introduction, and Mr. Howard promised a
visit from his sister, appeared more like events in a fairy tale than the sober
realities of their every-day life. "But why did you refuse the introduction,
Emma?" "What to Miss Osborne? Because I think such unequal acquaintances are
very undesirable and not likely to compensate for the trouble which accompanies
them, by any pleasure they can afford." "I believe in my heart, Emma, you are
very proud," said Elizabeth in a doubting, puzzled tone that almost made her
sister laugh. "Too proud to become a hanger-on of Miss Osborne's, certainly,"
answered she; "much too proud to be condescended to, and encouraged, or
patronised, or anything of the sort." "Well if I had been you, I would have just
seen what his lordship would do: suppose they had asked you up to the
Castle—would you not have liked that?" "No," said Emma; "I should only indulge
in luxuries which would make my home uncomfortable from the contrast, or perhaps
become envious from comparing their state with my own. But I cannot imagine the
option will be given me: unless Miss Osborne seeks me, we shall not meet, for I
shall certainly not throw myself in her way." "Well I am less proud and less
philosophical than you, Emma, and I own I would accept such an offer if it were
made me, and be thankful for the respite from the disagreeables of home, however
temporary it might be. I wonder whether Miss Osborne wishes it very much. But
after all Emma, you mean to let Mrs. Willis visit you—where's your pride in that
case?" "Surely Elizabeth, you must see the difference," said Emma, coloring.
"Mr. Howard and his sister are in our rank of life, though their intimacy at the
castle gives them artificial consequence. There would be no condescension on
their part, and no obligation incurred by me, which a return visit would not
fairly pay." "Well, I wish I knew what day they would come," said Miss Watson,
"for we could sit in the drawing-room, and not cover the sofa and carpets."
"Pray do not do anything of the sort," said Emma, in alarm; "I hope it will not
be the only visit they will pay—and we cannot _always_ sit in state to receive
them; make friends of them, and receive them in parlour." Elizabeth shook her
head. "You are very odd, Emma—what notions you have. I don't at all understand
you yet." It was very evident by the result, that Mr. Howard had not overstated
his sister's anxiety to place her acquaintance with Emma on a footing which
would secure its permanence and authorise an increase of intimacy; for the next
Monday after making the request, the visitors arrived. Elizabeth and Margaret
were sitting together when they were announced—but the former immediately left
the room to seek for Emma—although she would have been very glad if Margaret
would have saved her the trouble. Margaret, however, was determined to see as
much of these strangers from an unknown world, as she could, and consequently,
would not stir. She was very anxious to improve the opportunity by immediately
entering into conversation with Mr. Howard, but she could think of nothing to
say, and it was to the sister that they were indebted for the introduction of a
subject. Margaret, who had taken little notice of her at first—for she always
found a difficulty in conversing with women, could not help feeling, in some
degree, obliged by the well-bred manner in which she commenced some common
topics of conversation. "My brother has been telling me of your adventures on
Saturday with the dog," said Mrs. Willis presently, "I hope you suffered no
further inconvenience from it." "Oh," said Margaret, "I was dreadfully
frightened; I believe, but for Mr. Howard's interference, I should have fainted;
I am very nervous, and I declare I would rather have remained there the whole
night, than have ventured past the horrid animal." "My arrival there must be
esteemed most fortunate," said he, "but I own I am astonished at the rudeness of
the man in the farm-yard, who contented himself with looking on." "Oh. he was a
brute," cried Margaret, "no better than the dog—but what else can you expect
from boors like him. They have no sentiment or feeling." "I do not agree with
you," replied Mr. Howard, "I assure you, I have often been struck with instances
of disinterested kindness and generosity amongst the labouring classes, which
prove that they are endowed with excellent feelings." "They have no delicacy or
sentiment," said Margaret, "and without that they are uninteresting to me. I own
my partiality for the favorites of nature, the gentle and elegant in manner, the
aristocratic in birth and breeding." "Still I think you do our peasantry
injustice, if you suppose them destitute of delicacy of feeling, because they
have not a refined way of expressing their thoughts in words," replied Mr.
Howard. "Their manners of course are uncultivated, and their habits are what you
would call unrefined—and no one would wish they should be cursed with the desire
for elegancies, which habit has rendered indispensable with us, but which must
be unattainable to them; but the germs of generosity, gratitude, and self-
sacrifice for the good of others, may be found in many a one who would be
puzzled to express his ideas in words." "I dare say that is very true," replied
Margaret; "but I must say I think them very coarse and clownish; now and then
one sees a pretty looking girl; but the men are all detestable." "I have little
to say for their manners or persons," said Mr. Howard; "but, I assure you, I
have met with poetical though uncultivated minds amongst labouring men—the true
poetry of nature." "It must be very odd poetry expressed in such gothic
language," said Margaret, laughing: as she had not the smallest poetical feeling
herself, she could not comprehend what he meant when he talked of it, and
concluded that the peasantry spoke in rhyme, or, at least, blank verse. At this
moment the entrance of the other young ladies cut short the discussion, and
introduced a new subject. Charles, who had been standing by his mother,
earnestly contemplating the crown of his hat, and drawing figures with his
finger on the beaver, now looked up, all animation, as Emma kindly greeted him
as her "first partner at her first ball." His mother's eyes sparkled almost as
much as the little boy's, at her good-natured notice. Mr. Howard's admiration of
her was less obvious, but, perhaps, not less sincere than the others. A moment
after, Mr. Watson entered the room: his gout was better, and allowed him to come
down stairs. Mr. Howard noticed that it was Emma who rolled his easy chair into
the proper position, Emma, who arranged his footstool, who drew the curtain to
exclude the glare of the wintry sun, placed the screen to ward off the draught
from the door, and laid his spectacles, snuff-box, and writing-case on precisely
the proper spots of the proper table next him. Elizabeth was conversing with her
visitor, and Margaret never stirred on such occasions. Certainly Emma's
exertions, at this time, were almost rendered useless by the zeal with which Mr.
Howard seconded her movements. Mr. Watson's comforts were soon arranged in the
most satisfactory manner, such as long habit had rendered indispensable to him,
and when he had carefully adjusted his spectacles, and taken a survey of the
room, he turned to Mr. Howard, and enquired, who was that nice young woman
talking to Elizabeth. On being answered that it was his sister, he civilly
apologised for not having known her, which, as he had never seen her before, he
remarked, was not wonderful; but Elizabeth ought to have introduced him before
he sat down, as really the gout made it extremely difficult to move across the
room. Elizabeth did not think it necessary to justify herself by informing him,
that it was only owing to the self-engrossment and bustle attending his progress
and settlement in his arm-chair, that her attempt at an introduction had been
thwarted; indeed, Miss Watson was so little used to such ceremonies as to have
seized precisely the most inauspicious moment for speaking, and having been
foiled in her first essay, sat down without trying again. Mrs. Willis, however,
made it all easy, and soothed Mr. Watson's discomposure at such a breach of
etiquette, by the good-natured and respectful manner in which she now addressed
him. Whilst they were sitting in pleasant chat, Tom Musgrove again appeared
amongst them. Emma really began to hate the sight of him on Margaret's account,
as her sister's manners whilst in his company, cost her many blushes; and her
increase of fretfulness after his departure occasioned discomfort to the whole
party. It was a great gratification to her to discover from Mr. Watson's manner,
that he was very far from looking on Tom Musgrove as the amiable and elegant
gentleman that he aspired to be considered, and she even fancied that her father
did not receive him simply as an inoffensive guest; on the contrary, he seemed
annoyed at his visit, and inclined to regard it as an intrusion. "Well master
Tom," said he, "what foolish thing have you been doing lately?—breaking any more
horses' knees or dinner-engagements—your genius cannot have been idle since I
saw you last—let's hear all about it." "No indeed sir," replied Tom; "I have
been doing nothing worth chronicling, at least to such a _judge_ as you. I have
had my own little amusements, but they are not worth detailing. By the bye
Howard, I dare say Osborne did not tell you how completely I beat him at Fives
the other day: he's a good player too—but didn't I astonish him." "Lord Osborne
seldom entertains me with accounts of his sports, whether defeated or
victorious," replied Mr. Howard, coolly. "When you have the gout in your foot
even twice as bad as I have," observed Mr. Watson, "it will be consolatory to
you to remember that you could once beat Lord Osborne at Fives." "Aye sir, I
dare say I shall have my turn by-and-bye, I expect to have it early—Osborne
tells me _his_ father had it at five-and-twenty. It's an aristocratic
complaint." "Unless you have reason to suppose the late Lord Osborne was _your_
father likewise," resumed Mr. Watson drily, "I don't see what either his gout or
his aristocracy have to do with you." "Do you feel any symptoms already?"
whispered Margaret; "you really ought to take care of yourself—who would be so
much missed if you were laid up with that dreadful disorder! and who would you
get to nurse you in your hours of suffering?" "Oh I'll take care of myself, Miss
Margaret," said he pointedly; "gout makes one a prisoner, which is bad—I hate
all confinement, and bonds of every kind, especially fire-side bonds: freedom
for me—freedom at home and abroad—perfect freedom. By the bye, Howard,"
continued he, breaking in upon a very agreeable conversation which that
gentleman was carrying on aside with Emma, "I knew you were here when I came in,
by that curious vehicle standing at the door. Positively it must have belonged
to your great grandfather—nobody more modern could have built such a
conveyance!" "One thing is certain," said Mr. Watson, "Mr. Howard _had_ a great
grandfather to whom it might have belonged—it is more than every one can say!"
Tom rather winced at this observation, for as it was known, to those who
possessed good memories, that his grandfather had ridden about the country on a
donkey, whilst carrying on the lucrative business of a rag-merchant, it was no
very great stretch of the imagination to conclude that his more remote ancestor
had been equally humble in his means of travelling. "Perhaps it is not the most
elegant conveyance in the world," replied its owner good-humouredly; "but it
carries us very safely, and the most fashionable curricle would do no more."
"Upon my word I must beg to have the refusal of it, if you can be tempted to
part with it, Howard, and I will send it to a museum somewhere, labelled the car
of Cybele; I protest it puts me in mind of an old print of that machine, which
belonged to an aunt of mine." "Lord Osborne has promised to give me a new
carriage when either he or I marry," said Mr. Howard; "and I mean to make mine
serve till that event." "And are you come wooing now in person or as proxy?"
whispered Tom, quite loud enough for Emma to hear. "A good place this—one need
not ask twice, I fancy." "Mr. Musgrove," said Howard in his particularly quiet
but decisive way, "you are as welcome to laugh at my carriage as you should be
to use it, if it were necessary; but remember there are subjects on which
jesting is indelicate, and places where it is insulting." He turned away as he
spoke and addressed Mr. Watson, to give Emma's cheeks time to recover from the
glow which betrayed that she had heard more than was pleasant. Tom looked a
little foolish, and after a moment's hesitation, addressed an enquiry to Emma as
to whether she had been walking that forenoon. He only gained a mono-syllable in
reply, and then Emma drawing little Charles towards her, began a confidential
conversation with him on the subject of his garden and companions at school, and
the comparative merits of base-ball and cricket. Tom was repulsed, so turning to
Elizabeth, he cried:

"Well I must be going, Miss Watson, for I have an engagement. I promised to meet
Fred Simpson and Beauclerc and another fellow presently—so I must be off. They
want my opinion about some greyhounds Beauclerc has taken a fancy to but
wouldn't buy till I had had time to see them. They are monstrous good fellows,
and must not be kept waiting. Great friends of Osborne's, I assure you." Nobody
opposed his design: then turning with a softer tone and manner to Emma, he said,

"Really I must go to school again and take lessons from my little friend, to
learn from him the art of finding agreeable conversation. What is the secret,
Charles?" "It is more easily explained than taught," replied Emma, "unaffected
good-humour, sincerity, and simplicity. That is all!" Tom took himself off, and
as the sound of his curricle wheels died away in the distance, Mr. Watson
observed:

"There goes a young man, who if he had had to work for his bread might have been
a useful member of society. But unfortunately the father made a fortune, so the
son can only make a fool of himself." CHAPTER VIII. "I suppose some of you girls
will be for going over to return Mrs. Willis's visit," said Mr. Watson to his
daughters, the next day; "she's a nice little woman so far as I saw, and I have
no objection to your visiting her; but you must go to-morrow, if you go at all
this week, for I cannot spare the horse after that day." "Well, Emma," said
Margaret directly, "I will drive you over to-morrow if you like—you don't drive,
I dare say!" "I think," said Emma, "that Elizabeth ought to go, because as it is
a first visit, and she is the eldest—it will seem more complimentary."
"Certainly," cried Elizabeth, who was quite as anxious as Margaret to pay the
visit, "you and I, Emma, must go at all events." "But then _I_ can't," exclaimed
Margaret, "and why am _I_ to be left out? if Elizabeth goes, because _she_ is
eldest, I have the best right to go too, when Pen is away, for I am older than
Emma, at all events." "But as the visit was paid especially to Emma," rejoined
Elizabeth, "it is quite impossible that she should give up to you. She _must_
go." "Oh, yes, every body must go but me, that is always the way, it's very
hard." "Would not the chaise hold three?" suggested Emma, anxious for a
compromise, "Margaret is so slight, and I am not large, I am sure we could sit
so." "I dare say you could," replied her father, "but I can tell you, you would
have to sit in the stable-yard if you did, for the old horse could not draw you,
and should not make the attempt—no, no, if Margaret wants to go she may wait
till next time—if you pay visits at all, you shall pay them properly." The
consequence of this decision on the part of their father, was such an increase
of fretfulness in Margaret for the rest of the day, as to make Emma inclined to
think the society of her new acquaintance would be dearly bought at such a
penalty. Elizabeth bore it with the indifference produced by long habit. "It is
no use minding her," said she to Emma, as they were undressing, that night; "she
is always the same; if you give up one thing, she will quarrel about another;
you can do no good to her by sacrificing every thing to her wishes, and you had
much better take your own way when you can, and mind her crossness as little as
possible." Emma sighed at this assertion, but she sighed in vain; Margaret's
ill-humour was as apparent next morning, and rather increased as the hour of
setting off drew near. It was some consolation to her, however, to discover that
the day was exceedingly cold, with a heavy canopy of clouds over head, and
occasionally, slight sprinklings of snow, which promised any thing but a
pleasant drive to her sisters. Wrapping themselves up as well as they could,
they set off; but the ominous appearance of the sky rather increased than
diminished; and before they came in sight of Osborne Castle, for the parsonage
was within the park, a very heavy fall of snow overtook them. As their humble
vehicle slowly progressed along, Elizabeth was earnestly hoping that none of the
Osborne family would see them; she had never before reflected much on the
difference in their rank and circumstances; but now, whilst driving along the
road where _their_ coach and four had so often passed, she was mentally
comparing her lot with Miss Osborne's, and it seemed almost presumption in her
to come, as it were, in contact with such superior elegance and grandeur. Emma's
sensations were different; she felt that their equipage was suitable to their
station, and need therefore cost her no blushes, as it gave her no concern. The
wish to find the inhabitants of the parsonage at home, was uppermost in her
thoughts—and the hope that they should ultimately return, without being buried
in the snow, her principal object of anxiety. In the former of these she was
perfectly gratified; the neat and pretty looking maid, who opened the door,
announcing that both the master and mistress were within. Emma was struck with
the air of comfort and tidiness in all she saw, possibly because it contrasted
strongly with her father's house. It was owing to Mr. Watson's frequent illness
perhaps, but at home she had observed so many things which appeared to require a
master's eye. The gate swinging on one hinge, the trees straggling over the
paths, the wall round the stable-yard broken down, and a hundred other examples
of neglect and disorder had met her eyes at home. How different it all was at
Mr. Howard's! Even with the disadvantage of winter, and the consequent
dreariness of aspect which a lawn and shrubbery at such a season must
present—the neatness of the place conveyed an idea of comfort and taste. The
porch and steps were clean and white; and the little vestibule, through which
they passed to the parlour, was ornamented by some fine myrtles and geraniums in
pots, which combined with the well-arranged guns, fishing-rods, and similar
objects to give an air at once elegant and pleasing to the eye, but not too
studied for the daily habits of domestic life. The useful and the ornamental
were happily blended, and Emma looked with great pleasure round her. They found
Mrs. Willis sitting alone, and were received by her with warmth and ease. "It is
very good, indeed, of you to come through such weather to see us," said she, "I
am sure you must be half frozen—what can I give you to make you comfortable."
Her visitors assured her they needed nothing; which, however, was not strictly
true, as Emma certainly required the presence of the brother to make her quite
contented. This assurance did not satisfy the hospitality of their hostess, who
persisted in ordering hot wine and water, and would not be satisfied without
their eating something to keep prevent any ill effects from the cold, as she
said. They had not sat there many minutes, when Mr. Howard entered from his
little study which faced the entrance. He had seen their arrival, but would not
gratify his wishes of immediately presenting himself till he had ascertained
that their horse was properly attended to, and the carriage placed under cover,
to shelter it from the now thickly descending snow. Elizabeth looked round the
room with surprise and admiration. It was not larger or better than their
own—and the furniture was, apparently, neither more expensive, nor more
plentiful—but there was an air which their sitting-room never had. Instead of
the old discoloured engravings of bishops with wonderful wigs, or gentlemen in
broad-tailed coats, and flapped waistcoats, with their black frames, and dull,
dusty glasses, which adorned the walls of their usual sitting-room at home,
there hung here a few beautiful copies from the well-known and most admired
works of the Italian masters, which Mr. Howard had brought as the fruits of his
tour with Lord Osborne. These appeared to Elizabeth far more cheerful than the
dingy prints before mentioned, although the idea of objecting to the latter, had
never before entered her head. There was a flower-stand with some pretty plants;
an embroidery frame; a bird cage with Charles's pet canary; a set of bookshelves
well-filled, and a comfortable fire. But she could not make out why the
appearance of the room was so different from things at home. Perhaps one reason
was, that the whole of the furniture, having been bought and arranged at the
same time, harmonised together; unlike the articles in her father's house, which
having been picked up at different auctions in the neighbourhood, or purchased
second-hand from the broker, appeared, when put together, ill-matched and out of
place, however good in themselves the individual articles were. She wished she
could learn the art of giving such an air to a room, but she feared she never
should. These thoughts wandered through her mind during the intervals of her
conversation with their hostess, mixed with occasional wonder that Emma should
find so much to say, and say it all with so much ease to Mr. Howard; for though
Elizabeth could get on pretty well with Mrs. Willis, she still felt some degree
of awe towards Mr. Howard himself; a man who taught young Lord Osborne, and
played at cards with his mother. Emma, evidently undeterred by such
considerations, or rather not considering the subject at all, kept up a very
pleasant chat with him, though nothing was said by either particularly deserving
to be recorded. Half an hour passed rapidly, but when the sisters, after
glancing at each other as a signal for departure, began to look rather anxiously
at the weather, they found that it had changed decidedly for the worse since
their entrance, although their attentions had been too much engrossed to
perceive it before. The heavy sky was discharging itself on the earth in a thick
veil of snow, which entirely concealed the distance, and rapidly whitened all
surrounding objects. So dense was the atmosphere, that it rather seemed as if
the clouds had themselves suddenly descended and settled upon the earth, than as
if they were merely dispensing their superfluous contents. The wind too, which
had before blown only in occasional gusts, was now almost incessant, and greatly
increased in violence, and as their road lay eastward, they were certain of
encountering it in full force. The whirlwinds of snow which it raised,
threatened almost to smother unhappy travellers, and would have made it madness
to attempt to face it. "What can we do?" said Emma, as she contemplated the
scene in some alarm; "do you think you could drive in such a storm, Elizabeth?"
"Oh, I should not mind venturing," said Miss Watson, "but I am afraid for you;
you know you had a cold this morning, and to encounter such a storm would make
you worse." "Encounter the storm!" cried the brother and sister at once,
"impossible, not to be mentioned or thought of, much less put in practice—they
must wait a little while, if they wished _very much_ to return home, and see
what patience would produce; in case it did not mend, they might send a message
if they feared Mr. Watson would be uneasy—but indeed Mr. Howard thought they had
better give up all idea of returning at once, and allow him immediately to
dispatch some one to answer for their safety to their father's house. But as to
leaving the house during such a tempest, it was quite out of the question." With
the most friendly warmth, every possible accommodation was placed at their
disposal; every objection done away as soon as started; every difficulty proved
to be a vain fancy of its originator. The idea of the addition to their circle
at dinner, did not seem at all to discompose Mrs. Willis; and the minor
arrangements, the things to be lent for their use and comfort, appeared rather
to bring her positive enjoyment. In a short time, the young ladies felt
themselves quite domesticated in the house; their cloaks and bonnets removed,
their hair smoothed, and their thick boots exchanged, for comfortable slippers
of their new friend, they found themselves again seated comfortably in the
pretty parlour—and, ere long, were busily employed in helping Mrs. Willis in the
agreeable occupation of sewing certain little colored silk bags which Mr. Howard
and Charles afterwards filled with deliciously scented pot-pourri, from the
large china jar in the corner of the room. Now, their only subject of uneasiness
besides the dread of giving too much trouble, was the fear that their father's
comfort would suffer in their absence, as they knew only too well how little
Margaret contributed towards his amusement, or sought to spare him trouble.
Dinner time came, and Elizabeth was surprised to find that, although in the
vicinity of Osborne Castle, their hour of dining was no later than what she was
accustomed to; and still more surprised that the simple meal—the single joint,
and the plain, but certainly well-made, pudding which followed it, was
considered quite sufficient in itself, and needing no apologies. Not that she
expected anything more elegant or uncommon, much less wished for it, but she
felt had _she_ been the entertainer, she would, certainly, have regretted the
absence of further luxuries. The hour of dusk which followed the dinner, was
particularly agreeable, as they drew their chairs round the comfortable fire,
and chatted with the easy good nature which such a situation and such a
combination of circumstances is sure to promote. The man or woman who can be
cross and disagreeable at such a moment, must either be cursed with an
uncommonly perverse temper, or have eaten a great deal more than is good for the
health. This was not the case with either of the five who formed this cheerful
group—and Charles very freely expressed his extreme satisfaction at the turn
events had taken; appealing to his uncle to confirm his assertion that nothing
could be more delightful than the fact of the two Miss Watsons being forced to
remain in the house, and to join in his hope that the snow would keep them
prisoners for a week to come. Mr. Howard readily assented to his view of their
own good fortune in the turn events had taken, and only demurred to his wishes
from the doubt whether the young ladies themselves would not find such a
detention a severe penalty—in which case, he was sure, even Charles could not
wish, for his own gratification, to inflict it on them. "Oh, certainly not, if
they did not like it," cried Charles, "only I am sure Miss Emma, you are too
good-natured to object to what would give us all so much pleasure." "If my
opinion or wishes could make any difference to the snow, or serve to open the
road, Charles, it would be worth while to form a deliberate decision," said
Emma, good naturedly; "but now I want you, in the meantime, to guess this
riddle," and she diverted his attention by proposing some charades and enigmas
for his amusement. The diversion soon occupied the whole party, and much mirth
ensued at the variety and strange guesses which it gave rise to. Presently a
note was brought to Mr. Howard, which after studying near a light for some time,
he threw down on the table, and said:

"There, ladies, there is a riddle which I would almost defy you to read—look at
it!" His sister took it up. "Oh! I see—pray Miss Watson can you read that name?"
and she held it out to Elizabeth, who, with Emma, looked at it with great
curiosity. "Is that writing!" cried Emma, "and can any one expect it to be read;
I do not understand a word, except the three first." "Yes," said Elizabeth, "one
can read that, 'my dear Mr. Howard,' but the rest appears as if the writer had
dipped a stick in an ink bottle, and scribbled over the paper at random—you do
not mean to say, you have read it, Mr. Howard?" "I made out its meaning," said
he, looking up from a writing-table, at a little distance, "and I am answering
it at this moment." "Well, you must be much more clever than I am," said
Elizabeth, simply, "they are all hieroglyphics to me." "It is a note from Lady
Osborne," said Mrs. Willis, "I know her signature; but I am not sure that I
could decipher more." "Lady Osborne!" cried Elizabeth, looking at it again, but
this time with great respect, "do peeresses write in that way." "Not all, I
trust, for the credit of the peerage," replied Mr. Howard, "or, at least, for
the comfort of their correspondents." "It is certainly a great misapplication of
abilities," observed Emma, coolly, "for I am sure it must cost a person more
trouble to produce such a scrawl than it would to write three legible letters."
"I have no doubt it has cost her ladyship some trouble, and I am certain it has
put her to needless expense," said he, "for on one occasion, her steward sent an
express to London to enquire the meaning of a note he had received which was
intended to announce her return home: they passed the man on the road, and
consequently the housekeeper was taken by surprise; how angry she was at the
blunder!" "Well but, Edward, what is the subjects of your present _billet-doux_,
or is it a secret that you are answering in such a hurry?" "It is only to invite
me to the castle to-night, to make up their card-table, which I have refused,"
said he, as he gave his note to the servant and seated himself again. "Ah, how
glad I am," cried his sister, "such a night, to ask you out, though only across
the park! The Miss Watson's company affords a sufficient apology even to Lady
Osborne, I should think." "It is a sufficient one to myself," said Mr. Howard,
"Lady Osborne may be unable to calculate accurately what I gain by the
refusal—but I know that I secure a pleasant party, and escape a dreadful walk,
to say nothing of the tedium of the card-table itself; you see how deeply I am
indebted to your presence, Miss Watson, which serves me as an excuse on this
occasion." "We always hear virtue is its own reward," said Emma, "and your
hospitality to us is now repaid in kind; as you would not allow us to encounter
the snow, it would have been unjust that you should be exposed to it yourself."
"Well, Edward, I must say, I should be glad if you had a living in some other
part of the country—for you must know," turning to Elizabeth, "that the
inhabitants of the castle are almost too near to be pleasant. We are under
obligations which neither party can forget, and Edward is compelled to sacrifice
a great deal of time, and suffer much occasional inconvenience from the whims of
the great lady, which would be all obviated if our residence were fifty miles
off. You have no idea how exacting she is; and if my brother were not one of the
best-tempered men in the world we never could go on as well as we do." Here was
food for wonder to Elizabeth; after all then the Osbornes though noble were not
perfect; and the Howards, with their nice house, comfortable income, and high
connections had, like other people, their own peculiar grievances, and cherished
those hopes of improving their lot, by some anticipated change, which form the
principal charm of life to half the world. "I owe much to Lady Osborne for
kindness both of deed and of intention," said Mr. Howard seriously; "and I
should be sorry either by word or act, to fail in the respect which is her due.
She always means kindly at least." "It is quite right of you, Edward, to be
careful how you express your opinion, but neither gallantry nor gratitude have
the same claim on me. She always means kindly to herself, I dare say, and thinks
she means so to us—but she is no judge of our comfort, and fancies because our
rank is different, we have a different set of feelings likewise—"

"For shame, Clara," interrupted her brother, "you forget what you are saying,
and the best thing for you is, that we should forget it too." "No indeed,"
replied she smiling; "must she not suppose you endowed with an extraordinary
indifference to cold, and a super-human energy of frame to be pleased at
encountering such a storm as this? hark to the wind!" "Well, I am convinced,
that were we removed from the vicinity of the Castle, as you so much desire,
Clara, we should suffer as much inconvenience from the loss of many comforts
which they afford us now; and you would admit then, that the good and evil were
more equally balanced than you are at present disposed to allow." "We might not
have quite so much game, Edward; Miss Osborne would not give me flowers, and we
should not go to assemblies in their coach; but on the other hand, I should not
be so plagued by our best maid marrying their groom, as Lucy is going to do next
month, because the Osborne Arms will then be vacant; nor would the laundress
tell me when I complained of her clear-starching, that she had always helped in
my lady's laundry, and the housekeeper had been perfectly satisfied with her."
"But pray tell me," said Emma, "is there any reason for her ladyship's curiously
illegible hand, has she lost any of her fingers, or did she never learn to
write?" "I assure you she would be surprised at your not admiring her writing,"
said Mrs. Willis; "she piques herself on its peculiar and aristocratic beauty."
"I am sure," said Elizabeth, "I have often been punished for writing which was
much better than that; the writing master at school would have groaned at such a
prodigious waste of paper and ink." "Nevertheless, it thoroughly attains the
object at which she aims, to be unique," said Mr. Howard, "and I am sure she
would be much surprised at hearing it was illegible; but she thinks a fair,
flowing hand, in an Italian character, much more a round, distinct, and clear
one, only fit for tradesmen's accounts or clergymen's sermons." "She has the
same taste in everything," said his sister; "that frightful little dog she is so
fond of petting, and half the ornaments in the drawing-room have no value but in
their singularity." "And do her family inherit her tastes?" enquired Emma, "does
her son, for instance, prefer the wonderful to the beautiful?" Mr. Howard gave
Emma an enquiring glance, which seemed intended to question the motive of her
curiosity; then answered rather gravely, that Lord Osborne's tastes and opinions
were as yet unformed. "But he is not insensible to the power of some kind of
beauty," cried Elizabeth, looking archly at her sister; "from what I have lately
heard of him, I am certain he is not." Why the subject of Lord Osborne's tastes
should be disagreeable to Mr. Howard, Emma could not precisely comprehend,
though she pondered long on the matter, but this short discussion was evidently
followed by a certain coldness and restraint in his manner of addressing her,
which puzzled and rather vexed her. It was not, however, shaken off during the
rest of the evening, and the unpleasant sensation it produced, was only
mitigated by his being persuaded to read aloud to them, and in this manner the
rest of the evening was spent. The weather the next morning did not offer any
prospect of a release to the young ladies, and to say the truth they evidently
bore the involuntary absence from home without suffering very acutely, if either
their air of complacency or their lively conversation might be considered
indicative of their feelings. Breakfast passed pleasantly away, and the ladies
were quietly sitting together afterwards, when the door opened and Lord
Osborne's head appeared. "May I come in?" said he, standing with the door in his
hand. "You look very comfortable." "You will not disturb us, my lord," said Mrs.
Willis gently but good-humouredly, "provided you have no dog with you." He
advanced and paid his compliments to the ladies, then turned to the fire.
"That's nice," said he; "you can't think how pleasant it is after the cold air;"
then seating himself and holding out his feet to dry before the fire, he said to
Emma, "I heard you were snowed up here last night." "Did you, my lord," said she
very coolly. "Yes; my mother _would_ know who it was with Howard, and so I
learnt, and I am to give you my sister's compliments, or love or something of
the sort, and as soon as the road is swept she will come and see you." Emma was
rather embarrassed at this declaration; she did not wish for Miss Osborne's
notice, and felt uncomfortably averse to her patronage; yet the declaration
seemed to excite so little surprise or emotion of any kind on the part of her
new friend that she began to think it might be a more common-place matter than
she had anticipated. The feelings of the sisters were not at all alike, though
the result was the same in each; they both shrank from any intercourse with Miss
Osborne; Elizabeth because she feared their inferior style of living would shock
and disgust her, or perhaps excite her ridicule; Emma because she apprehended
the superiority of her birth and fortune would lead the peer's daughter to
expect a degree of complaisance and submission which Emma herself would only pay
to superior talents or virtue; but when she saw the quiet ease with which Lord
Osborne was received, and the indifference with which the announcement of his
sister's intentions was listened to, she became better reconciled to her lot,
and prepared to go through her share of the introduction with calmness. After
all, Miss Osborne, though a baron's daughter and living in a castle, might have
the tastes which are to be found amongst the dwellers in parsonages—though she
travelled in a coach and four, she might love variety and novelty as much as the
driver of the humblest one-horse chaise, and the prospect of forming a new
acquaintance might have many charms for her on a snowy day when her time would
probably hang heavy on her hands. "It's not such bad walking either as you would
think," said Lord Osborne to nobody, and in answer to nothing; "and the walk
down here is screened from the wind; but you would be surprised to see how the
snow has drifted in places: it will be impossible for you to get through the
lanes to-day Miss Watson." "We do not intend that they should attempt it," said
their hostess, "until we have ascertained that the roads are perfectly
practicable, it would be inhuman to turn them out." A short silence ensued. Lord
Osborne sat by the fire looking at Emma, who proceeded steadily with her work;
presently Mrs. Willis commenced, or rather resumed a conversation with
Elizabeth, for the entrance of his lordship had interrupted it, on the best
methods of rearing domestic poultry. Gradually as Miss Watson became hardened to
the consciousness of being listened to by Lord Osborne, her faculties returned;
and though at his first entrance she could not have told how young chickens
should be fed, before the expiration of half an hour she was equal to imparting
to her companion the deepest mysteries of the poultry yard. Whilst they were
thus sitting, quiet and composed, Charles Willis suddenly rushed into the room
and took up his station close to Emma's work-table. "Why, Charles," said Lord
Osborne, "don't you see me—aren't you going to speak to me this morning," and he
laid a firm grasp, as he spoke, on Charles's coat collar, and drew the boy
towards himself. "I beg your pardon, my lord, I really did not see you," replied
Charles, twisting his person in the vain hope of eluding his lordship's grasp,
and keeping his place. "I say, Charles," continued the young man, "how comes it
lessons are over so early this morning—a holiday—hey—or uncle lazy—I thought you
never finished till noon?" "Oh no, we have been very industrious," Charles
answered; "we both worked as hard as we could to get lessons over because we
wanted to come early into the drawing-room as the Miss Watsons were here." "But
you don't mean to say you like the Miss Watsons better than Latin grammar—or
Greek verbs—that's impossible altogether." Charles laughed. "Are _you_ so fond
of the Latin grammar, my lord?" asked he, slyly. "I! oh no; but then I learnt
all mine long ago; and since I survived the flogging, I dare say it did me no
harm. But now tell me," added he, in a whisper, quite distinct enough for every
one in the room to hear, "was it you or your uncle who was in the greatest
hurry: or does not he like the Miss Watsons as well as you, Charles." "Oh, I
assure you, he was quite as anxious as myself—and I think he likes Miss Emma as
much as I do," whispered Charles in reply. Whether the deep colour in Emma's
cheek, at that moment, was occasioned by this answer of Charles, or by vexation
at an obstinate knot in her thread, which she vainly endeavoured to disentangle,
was not exactly obvious to Lord Osborne's perceptions. He thought the effect,
however, so very becoming as to regard her with great admiration, and his looks
were intently fixed on her, when Mr. Howard entered the room. The eager step and
open, happy look with which he was advancing, seemed to meet an unexpected shock
at the sight of his young pupil. His air was embarrassed as he paid him his
compliments, and after standing for a moment, as if in hesitation, he drew a
chair near Miss Watson and his sister, on the opposite side of the table to the
others. A pause of some minutes ensued: it appeared that Lord Osborne found
sufficient, amusement in contemplating the varying colour in Emma's cheeks,
whilst Mr. Howard was occupied in playing with a pencil he took from the table,
and did not raise his eyes at all. "It is not like your lordship's usual
aversion to cold," said he, at length, "to venture out on foot in such a
morning. I thought nothing could have tempted you to such an exertion." "One
changes sometimes," replied Lord Osborne, "and one can do anything with a
sufficient motive—I mean to turn over a new leaf, as my nursery maids used to
say—and you will hardly know me again." Another silence, during which his
lordship crossed and uncrossed his legs repeatedly—then took up the poker and
stirred the fire. Emma heartily wished him back at the castle: his looks fixed
on her were very unpleasant; and she hoped that his departure would release Mr.
Howard from the spell which appeared to overpower him, and restore his ordinary
animation. She had, however, long to wait for this desirable result; it was
evident that the drawing-room at the parsonage presented more charms to the
young peer, than the castle halls, and he continued to sit in silent admiration
of Emma's blushes long after Mr. Howard had risen in despair, and left the room.
The sound of the door bell about noon, brought some prospect of a change;
eliciting from Mrs. Willis an exclamation of wonder, and from Lord Osborne an
interjection—

"I'll bet anything that's my sister." He was right. Wrapt in a furred mantle
which might almost have defied the cold of a Siberian winter, Miss Osborne made
her entry, on purpose to call on Miss Emma Watson, as she declared immediately.
Emma observed her with some curiosity. She was a small, young woman, with lively
manners, a quick, dark eye, and good humoured expression. Quite pretty enough,
considering her birth, to be called beautiful, though had she been without the
advantages of rank, fashion and dress—had she, in fact, been a Miss Watson, and
not a Miss Osborne, she would not, probably, have been noticed a second time.
She was extremely courteous and agreeable in her manners, chatting with
volubility and animation, as if it was a relief to her to escape from the state
apartments of her mother's house, to the unrestrained warmth and good-nature of
the parsonage. "Where's your brother to-day, Mrs. Willis," said she presently,
"has he run away from me; does he fancy we are charged with lectures for his
desertion of our drawing-room last night. He need not be afraid. _I_ think he
was very excusable." "He was here just now. I do not think his conscience seems
very uneasy—he is probably engaged in some business at present—I will let him
know you are here." "Oh no, pray don't disturb him; I have too much regard for
his credit, and the good of his parishioners. What should I say if my intrusion
broke in on an argument, or put to flight a beautiful figure of speech. How
could I answer for such mischief. Let him write his sermon in peace." Mrs.
Willis assented. Probably Miss Osborne did not expect she would, for she
presently added:

"I don't know, however, but that on the whole you had better summon him, because
then he can give us his opinion on the proposal that I am charged to make, being
nothing less than that you should _all_ come and dine at the Castle this
evening." It would not be easy for words to convey an accurate idea of the look
and feelings of Elizabeth Watson on hearing this proposal. To say she was
astonished, is to tell but a small part of her sensations. The idea that she
should have lived to see the day which brought about such an invitation was so
perfectly overwhelming, that she seemed to herself until that moment never to
have been surprised before. But to accept it was impossible: she felt an
instantaneous conviction that it must be refused; for besides not knowing how to
conduct herself under such circumstances, she had no dress to go in. Their visit
to the parsonage having been entirely unpremeditated, it followed, of course,
that there had been no preparations made; their best dresses, inferior as they
were to what the visitors at Osborne Castle might be expected to produce, were
reposing in quietness in Elizabeth's wardrobe. Miss Osborne's proposal was
followed by a short, hesitating silence amongst those to whom it was addressed.
"Perhaps," cried she perceiving this, "you will like a moment's consideration. I
do not wish to hurry for an answer. Pray deliberate on the case, Mrs. Willis,
but if you can, persuade your friends to conclude their deliberations in our
favour." "I am afraid," said Elizabeth, urged by the desperate nature of her
feelings to some immediate exertion, "I am afraid we cannot have the pleasure—do
ourselves the honor I believe I ought to say—but indeed we were not prepared—we
have no dress at all suitable for the occasion"—she stopped, afraid that she
might have done wrong in exposing the real state of the case. Miss Osborne
looked surprised, as if the idea of not possessing a sufficient stock of gowns
had never before entered her head. "I am sorry there should be any difficulty,"
she cried, "gowns that are good enough for Mrs. Willis and Mr. Howard, must
surely be good enough for us. We shall not make the smallest objection to your
coming as you are. You will be conferring on us a most important favour. You
cannot imagine how miserably dull we find ourselves in this weather. Mama dozes
over a fire-screen, and Miss Carr and I sit and look at each other, and long for
a change of scene. Snow is always detestable, but at Osborne Castle it surpasses
everything for deadening the faculties and damping the spirits. Come now, do
think favourably of my request, how shall I dare to face Lady Osborne with a
second refusal?" "I hope her ladyship was not vexed at my brother's refusal last
night?" said Mrs. Willis, with a little anxiety. "I will not say she was not
disappointed," replied Miss Osborne gaily, "we are so dreadfully dull and
melancholy; but he has my full and entire forgiveness for his defalcation, on
condition that he comes to-night to repair his errors, and brings you all with
him." Meantime Lord Osborne had edged his chair closer to Emma, and was in low
tones pressing on her the request his sister had just made. "Do come, you look
too good-natured to say no—I am sure you must be monstrously obliging. "—Emma
shook her head and tried not to smile.—"And as to what your sister says about
dress, that's nonsense; that is, I don't mean she talks nonsense, but it's
foolish to care about dress—you look very nice—you always do—and we don't the
least mind about your gown. My mother and sister have such loads of fine clothes
themselves, that depend upon it they will not care the least for seeing any
more." Emma thought this extremely probable, but yet it did not seem quite
applicable to their case. How, indeed, could any young lady be expected to
derive consolation from the idea that her personal appearance could be a matter
of total indifference to her companions. It was evident to Miss Osborne, that
the ladies wished to discuss this question amongst themselves; she therefore
dropped the subject, and after chatting good-naturedly on some indifferent
topics, took her leave, with an assurance that if they decided in favour of the
Castle, a carriage should be sent down to fetch them. She persuaded her brother
to return with her, which was a particular relief to Emma, who had grown quite
tired of his eyes. Hardly was the house door closed on them, when Elizabeth
drawing a long breath, exclaimed:

"Oh dear, Mrs. Willis, do tell me what we had better do, I am sure I would much
rather refuse if we can, but then perhaps it would not be thought right—and I
must say if I were not so frightened I should rather like to see the inside of
the Castle, and how people go on there." "I do not think you need be much
alarmed," replied Mrs. Willis smiling good-humouredly, "you will survive it I
dare say, if you make up your mind to go. Lady Osborne _is_ rather stiff
certainly, but though she does nothing to make herself agreeable, she is not
unpleasant—not more so than a handsome piece of furniture—a picture, or anything
of that sort. And I really think you would be more amused there than in our
little drawing-room." "But we have no dress fit for company," again urged
Elizabeth. "They are aware of the circumstances under which you came, and
therefore must know you to be unprepared. I do not, therefore, think _that_ need
be an insurmountable objection. Your own inclination must decide it." At this
moment Mr. Howard re-entered the room. His sister immediately began to relate to
him the fact of the visit and the invitation; but he cut her short by saying
that he knew it; he had met Miss Osborne and her brother as they were leaving
the house, and accompanied her part of the way home. His eyes were turned on
Emma as he spoke, and an idea which suddenly occurred to her relative to his
acquaintance with the young lady, caused her a sensation that brought the blood
to her cheeks. Why she should color and feel warm at the notion that he had any
particular regard for Miss Osborne, she could not exactly decide. It certainly
could not concern her in the least if he had, and she would have been very glad
to have kept her looks and feelings under better regulation, she was so very
much afraid that he would guess her thought. This was an alarm entirely without
foundation, as far from rightly guessing what was passing in her mind, Mr.
Howard's fancy went off in a totally different direction. He attributed her
blushes to some sentiment connected with the brother, not the sister, and
supposed her to be pleased with the consciousness of these attentions being
meant for her. For his own part he felt considerable surprise that Miss Osborne
should so directly and decidedly countenance her brother's admiration. He had
expected more pride from her.—Could he have heard the conversation that passed
on the subject at Osborne Castle, he would have better understood the hidden
machinery on which these matters turned. "What makes you so anxious to cultivate
an intimacy with those Watson girls," said Miss Carr to her friend, when she
heard her announce an intention of calling on them. "I like the looks of Emma
particularly," replied the young lady addressed; "there is expression in her
countenance, an air and manner in her motions which I admire." "And do you run
after all the girls who have a little manner or expression, Rosa?" enquired her
friend again, with something of superciliousness in her tone. "I don't like
those who have not, Fanny—but there is more than this in my plan—I think Mr.
Howard likes her." "Well, and what does that signify to you? what have you to do
with Mr. Howard's liking?" this question was accompanied with a sharp,
interrogative look from Miss Carr, as if she strongly suspected her friend's
motive. "I have half a scruple about explaining to you, Fanny." "Oh, pray throw
it away then and explain it once. I am dying of curiosity to understand the
motive of your manœuvres." "I will tell you nothing whilst you look so much as
if you think you understand all—your quizzical look provokes me to silence."
"And if you will not tell me, Rosa, I will just tell you what I think;
listen—you think Mr. Howard admires Emma Watson—and you cultivate her
acquaintance for the sake of thwarting their attachment. Is that worthy of you."
"Worthy indeed," cried Miss Osborne, throwing back her head with an air of
disdain. "I might justly retort your question—upon my word, I am highly
flattered by your gracious opinion of me. No, if I do stoop to manœuvre, it is
not to dishonor our house, or to _promote_ alliances unworthy of it. Now I will
tell you my real motive—though positively even to you, I am half-ashamed of
mentioning it. My mother—have you not observed—she is so very partial to—"

Miss Osborne paused in some confusion. Her friend looked puzzled. "Partial to
whom—to Emma Watson? I really don't understand." "No, no, to Mr. Howard,"
replied the blushing daughter, in a low tone; "and I would give the world to see
him married and out of her way." "Very well—very reasonable," said Miss Carr,
coolly, twisting her fingers through her long ringlets. "But how does your
patronising this Emma promise any particular progress to Mr. Howard's passion?
In my opinion, you had much better let them alone." "I don't think so," replied
Miss Osborne, decisively; "the Watsons have always been considered as very low
in rank amongst visitable people. The few we know ourselves decidedly hold them
cheaply—and I think it possible that, accustomed to superior society, Mr. Howard
might hesitate a moment before throwing himself amongst a set so decidedly
inferior to those with whom he is used to mix." "He does not seem to feel any
such nicety, since his admiration has begun, and will, no doubt, prosper without
your intervention. I still repeat, you had better let them alone." "But I have a
great regard for Mr. Howard, and should like to be on good terms with his wife."
"Wait till she is in existence then." "But if I slight her _now_, will she be
more inclined to be sociable _then_?" "You need not slight her—be civil if you
like—but why seek her out unnecessarily?" "Because I foresee that his marriage,
whenever it takes place, will cause a _fracas_, and I should wish them both to
feel they have a friend in me." "Well, it is an affair that concerns you no
doubt, much more nearly than me, and I cannot presume to dictate. But I think
_all_ manœuvring dangerous." "Besides," continued Miss Osborne, changing the
ground of her reasoning, "Emma Watson, in herself seems a nice conversable girl,
and, I assure you, at Osborne Castle, when there is no party in the house, such
an acquisition is not to be despised." "Why, Rosa, you never spoke a word to
her—how can you tell that she is conversable." "Not from my own observation of
course; but I can form some judgment from what Mrs. Willis and her brother have
told us—"

"And your brother, too," said Miss Carr, with some emphasis; "he seems to be
taking some trouble to make her acquaintance." "Who, Osborne? yes, he admires
her, I believe; but his is a very passive sort of admiration, not in the least
likely to lead to any vehement results." "Well, I can admit your being sometimes
lonely as a motive for wishing for a country friend; but, if I do not think you
make the selection with your usual judgment, you must forgive me." "I cannot
imagine why you entertain such a prejudice against poor Emma Watson, Fanny; you
cannot, surely, be jealous of her—are _you_ in love with Mr.
Howard—come—confess!" "No," replied Miss Carr, coloring deeply as she spoke. The
result of this conversation was that visit and invitation already related. Lady
Osborne made no objection to her daughter's proposal. Her card-table would be
then certain to be filled, and Mr. Howard would have no excuse for absenting
himself. Her pride did not stand in the way on this occasion—she considered
every individual not belonging to the peerage to be so much beneath her, that
the gradations amongst themselves were invisible to her exalted sight; and a
step or two, more or less, made no difference. She had not, therefore, the
smallest inclination to oppose the admission of new spectators to her glory—and
rather rejoiced in the idea of the envy and admiration to which her jewels, her
equipages, and her general style of grandeur would give rise. With these amiable
motives, she allowed her daughter to do as she liked, and the only one who
seemed at all discomposed by the circumstance, was Miss Carr, whose
remonstrances, however, proved quite ineffectual. CHAPTER IX. To return to the
party at the parsonage, whom we left discussing the point, Elizabeth suddenly
turned to her sister and exclaimed,

"By the bye Emma, you have given no opinion on the subject—yet you are as much
interested as the rest of us. What do you think of going—should you like it?"
"Yes, I think I should," replied Emma honestly and boldly. "I like what I have
seen of Miss Osborne better than I expected, and really have rather a curiosity
to see the inside of the Castle." "Ah, Emma, I am glad you have come down from
your proud indifference, and condescended to be curious like the rest of us,"
cried her sister. "Did you think I affected indifference, Elizabeth?" "I
suspected it. For my part I have no scruple in owning my wishes, and should like
extremely to surprise Tom Musgrove by my acquaintance with the manners,
amusements and ideas prevalent in Osborne Castle, of which he talks so much."
"Then I may conclude it a settled affair," observed Mrs. Willis; "and Charles
shall run up to the Castle with the note immediately. That shall be his share of
the amusement." At six o'clock the party started from the Parsonage. Elizabeth
in a flutter between curiosity and fear, which made her pleasure in the
undertaking rather doubtful to herself. Emma would have thought more about it
had she not been engrossed with meditations on the change in Mr. Howard's
manners, which rather perplexed her. He had been different all the afternoon
from what he had appeared in the morning; his prolonged absence from their
company seemed unaccordant with Charles's declaration of his haste to join them,
and there was a coldness in his tone when he addressed _her_, quite at variance
with his former warmth and frankness. This pained her; she was constantly
fancying that she had done or said something to lessen herself in his esteem,
but she could not imagine what it was. Occupied with these thoughts she scarcely
noticed the grandeur of the Hall, the magnificent staircase, the elegance of the
ante-rooms as they approached, and was only roused from her reverie by the
overpowering blaze of light in the drawing-room. Lady Osborne was alone in the
room, seated on a sofa from which she did not rise to receive them, but
graciously extended her thin and richly jewelled hand to Mrs. Willis, and bowed
courteously to her companions. Overawed by her near approach to such
magnificence, Elizabeth drew back rather hastily, and after nearly upsetting
Emma by inadvertently treading on her toe, she dropped into the chair which
seemed most out of sight, and endeavoured to recover her breath and composure.
Lady Osborne desired the other ladies to find seats, and then observing that Mr.
Howard likewise drew back, and seemed to meditate a retreat to one of the
windows, she dropped the elegant screen she had been holding in her hand. It was
not well managed, however; Mrs. Willis was so near that she restored her
ladyship's screen before her brother had time to interfere. But Lady Osborne was
not to be baffled, she addressed a few civil words to Mrs. Willis, and then
suddenly observed,

"You have no footstool Mrs. Willis, take mine—I daresay Mr. Howard will bring me
another." Thus appealed to the gentleman was forced to approach, and immediately
with eager civility was offered a seat on the sofa by herself. Emma meantime was
contemplating their hostess with some interest, and more wonder. Lady Osborne
had been a celebrated beauty, and her dress showed that she had by no means
given up all pretensions to her former claims. Jewels and flowers were mingled
in her hair which was still remarkably abundant; her neck and shoulders were a
good deal uncovered, her arms and hands were heavily hung with ornaments, and
she smoothed down her rich dress with a hand which though thin was still white
and delicate-looking. There was something in her manner to Mr. Howard which
particularly struck Emma—a sort of consciousness and wish to attract and engage
him, that seemed very much at variance with her age and station. Not that she
was an old woman—Emma had learned from "The Peerage" that she was not more than
forty-five, and she looked less. But she was the mother of a grown-up son and
daughter, and the widow of a peer; and a grave and gentle deportment, stately
but serene, would have seemed more becoming in Emma's eyes, and given her a
higher idea of her character. She had not however very long to make these
observations as Miss Osborne's entrance gave her another subject for her
thoughts. This young lady presented a remarkable contrast to her mother, from
the studied plainness of her dress. She was entirely without ornament, except
some beautiful flowers, and had evidently sought in her toilette to assimilate
her appearance as nearly as was suitable to what she knew her guests must
present. She took a seat between the two strangers, and entered readily into
conversation with Emma; but before many sentences had been exchanged, their
party was completed by the appearance of Miss Carr at one door, as the young
master of the house entered at another. He paid his compliments to them all by a
short bow, and a muttered, "Glad to see you," then walked towards his mother's
sofa, and stationed himself by the end of it, nearest Emma, where leaning
against the elbow, he could resume his apparently favorite amusement of staring
at her face. Miss Carr, meanwhile, had approached the fender, and stood
fluttering over the fire for some minutes, then advancing nearer to Lady
Osborne, addressed to her some trifling question, which diverted her attention
from Mr. Howard, to his evident relief. He immediately rose, and resigned his
seat in her favor. Lady Osborne looked displeased, but to that Miss Carr was
indifferent, she had secured a position at Lord Osborne's elbow, which was her
own object, and broken short her lady hostess's attempts at flirtation with the
clergyman which she knew would please her friend. Her position, however
advantageous, was not long tenable: the summons to dinner was given before she
had time to utter more than one remark to Lord Osborne, cutting off his answer,
which, short as he usually made his replies, there was now no opportunity to
utter. Lady Osborne rose in great state, and giving her hand to Mr. Howard,
proceeded to the dining room, through a long range of ante-rooms, where large
glasses were so arranged as to exhibit before her, her stately figure, and
glance back the lustre of her diamond ornaments. As Elizabeth and Emma followed
Miss Osborne and her friend, they could not help wondering at the self-
admiration which made it agreeable thus to see nothing but self. "How dingy we
look compared to her ladyship and Miss Carr," whispered Elizabeth to her sister.
"I really feel quite ashamed of myself." "I trust I shall be a little sheltered
from her son's eyes," rejoined Emma, in a similar tone, "his stare is quite
overpowering; why does he not, sometimes, look at you." "Thank you, I do not
wish it—gracious—six footmen—what can they all find to do in waiting," this
ejaculation was uttered almost inaudibly—they having reached the dining-room,
where Elizabeth was too much awed to speak. Lady Osborne did not sit at the head
of her own table, and her two young visitors were seated on either hand of Miss
Osborne on the opposite side of her ladyship. Immediately that she perceived how
they were about to be arranged, Emma contrived to seat herself as far as
possible from their host, and by that means became the neighbour of Mr. Howard.
She fancied he perceived the object of her manœuvres, for a sort of half smile
passed over his face, and he looked either amused or pleased, she could not tell
which. He did not address her, however, and as Miss Osborne turned to converse
with Elizabeth she sat for some time silent. But as dinner advanced, just as her
ladyship was detailing to Mrs. Willis some events in the village which required
superintendence, and whilst Miss Carr was making a lively attack on Lord
Osborne—about his absence of mind during the dinner, Mr. Howard enquired whether
her curiosity was gratified. Pleasure that he should once more resume a tone of
friendship, brought a lively colour to her cheeks, and so sweet a smile to her
lips, that he must have been very insensible to admiration of beauty, had he
been able to resist the attraction. He continued the conversation as long as
Lady Osborne's narrative served as a screen to them, and though, when that drew
to a close, he found himself compelled to transfer his attention to their
hostess, the impressions left by his look and tone were so very pleasing, as
quite to rescue the dinner from a charge of stupidity which Emma had previously
been meditating to bring against it. It was lucky that she had this little
diversion, for otherwise her share of amusement would have been small. There was
not a great deal said at dinner, and of that little comparatively a small
portion fell to her lot. It was over however at last, and when they had reached
the drawing-room to which they were ushered, in almost as much form as they left
it, though their conductor was now only the groom of the chambers, Emma hoped
she might find some little relief from insipidity: nor was she disappointed;
whilst Lady Osborne was sipping coffee, and prosing to Mrs. Willis, her daughter
drew her younger guests into a smaller room, which she assured them was her own
particular domain; here establishing themselves comfortably round the ample
fire, they fell into a lively and pleasant chat, such as any three girls might
be expected to do; presently they were joined by Miss Carr. "Your lady-mother,"
said she, "is so deep in village politics with Mrs. Willis, that I am sure I
must be _de trop_ there, and I have, therefore, absconded here." She seated
herself as she spoke in the chimney corner on a low ottoman, and spreading out
her hands to the fire; she said—

"Don't let me stop you unless you were talking of me, Miss Emma Watson, it is
your turn—what do you think?" "Think of what?" enquired Emma, rather startled by
the keen eyes fixed on her—it seemed always her fate to be stared at
unmercifully. "Think, oh, of anything—of Mr. Howard for instance—what do you
think of him?" "That he carves very well," returned Emma laughing. "Well, that
is something—a good quality in the master of a house; I commend it seriously to
your attention." "I should think the gentlemen would not sit very long,"
observed Miss Osborne, "and when they come we must all adjourn to the drawing-
room, for mama will wish to sit down to cards. I hope you can play cards." Her
visitors assented, Elizabeth asserting that she was very fond of them. "And you,
Miss Emma Watson," cried Miss Carr, "do you not delight in cards—you answer with
a degree of coldness that speaks rather of indifference on the subject." "I can
play if necessary," replied Emma, "but there are many occupations I prefer."
"But you shall not be obliged to make martyrs of yourselves," said Miss Osborne
good-humouredly. "If you prefer it you shall sit here, either or both of you,
but we do not play high." Nothing remarkable occurred during the rest of the
evening; a dull, leaden state seemed to pervade everything, and both the Miss
Watsons felt an inclination to yawn, which they dared not indulge in so august a
presence. They were very glad when the time for taking leave arrived, and the
enlivening bustle of putting on cloaks and fur boots quite aroused them. Lord
Osborne looked on whilst Mr. Howard was wrapping up Emma, with a degree of
attention which held out fair hopes of his soon learning such a lesson by heart.
"I shall come down and see you to-morrow," said he. "It seems warmer to-night,"
observed Emma, "don't you think we are going to have a thaw? perhaps we may get
home to-morrow." "I hope you are not weary of us," said Mr. Howard, in a cordial
voice; "if the weather does not change till _we_ wish it, we shall keep you
prisoner some days yet." "Thank you," said she—she wanted to say something more
but did not know exactly what, and they reached the carriage before she had made
up her mind. The bright fire which was burning in the comfortable little drawing
room at the parsonage, irresistably invited them to enter and draw round it,
before separating for the night. Their drive had dispelled their sleepiness, and
they were all four in good spirits: it was just the time, the situation, when
reserve seems naturally cast aside, and friendly chat and the merry laugh go
round unrestrained. "Well, Miss Watson," said Mrs. Willis, "is your curiosity
gratified? how do you like the Castle? are you envious of their state?" "No, I
think not," answered Elizabeth reflectingly, "there are some things I should
like, but much that would be troublesome. I dare say Lady Osborne has no worry
about housekeeping, but then _I_ should feel the responsibility of having so
many dependent on me." "And what part would you chose of her ladyship's manner
of living?" asked Mr. Howard, "her jewels perhaps—or her six footmen?"
"Neither," replied Elizabeth, laughing a little; "I am used to wait on myself,
and should feel it a great restraint to be obliged to wait whilst others waited
on me. I could not help thinking of what my father used to say, when Lady
Osborne's maid was so long bringing her ladyship a shawl. 'If you want to be
served, send—if you want to be _well_ served, go.' That was his motto—and though
he never acted on it himself, I think I do—and would rather run up three pair of
stairs myself, than wait whilst another does it." "I admire the activity and
independence of your spirit, Miss Watson," replied Mr. Howard; "but you have not
yet told me what it is you do envy." "No, and I do not mean to do it," replied
she; "be satisfied with your own conjectures." "I must if you will say no more.
And _you_, Miss Emma, how were you pleased with your evening?" "Very much—I have
come back much wiser than I went; I have made up my mind that the more elevated
the situation the less pleasant it would be unless one had been brought up to
it." "Then you would not change places with Lady Osborne?" said he, fixing a
pair of very penetrating eyes on her. As she had noticed Lord Osborne's looks
without the remotest idea of his meaning anything but to put her out of
countenance, and formed no airy speculations as to the possibility of succeeding
to the dominion at the Castle, she attached no peculiar meaning to his question.
"I think the supposition hardly a reasonable one," was her answer; "could you
suppose I should wish to exchange with a woman old enough to be my mother—give
up five and twenty years of life to be a wealthy middle-aged dowager in claret-
coloured satin and diamonds." Mr. Howard smiled. "Remember," continued Emma as
if retracting, "I mean no disparagement to your friend, who I have no doubt may
be a very excellent and amiable woman, but I was speaking merely as she appeared
to me to-day." "There have been young Lady Osbornes," said he almost in a
whisper, and as if rather doubtful whether or not to speak the words. "I suppose
so," replied Emma coolly, without the smallest embarrassment, but with a slight
shade of reserve in her manner. She never allowed jesting on the topic of
matrimony. He saw it immediately. "Then what do you think you require to make
you happy?" said he, to escape from the other subject. "A very comprehensive
question—I should like to know whether you expect a serious answer," replied she
gaily. "A true one, if you please." "To be with those I love, and have money in
my purse—I think that is sufficient: no—I think I should like a house too—"

"Very reasonable and moderate." "But preserve me from the slavery of living _en
grande dame_; I was not brought up to it—and nothing but habit could make such
bonds sit light and gracefully." "I believe you are right, and you must
certainly be wise." He looked at her with unmistakable admiration; she could not
meet his eye, but coloured and fixed hers on the fender. In spite of her
embarrassment, however, she felt a real pleasure in the friendly tone he had
assumed, and hoped sincerely that the morning would not see him cold and formal
again. "Emma," said Elizabeth after they had retired for the night, "I am
certain that Lord Osborne admires you very much." Emma only smiled in reply.
"What do you think about it?" continued Miss Watson. "That I wish he would find
some pleasanter way of testifying his admiration," said Emma. "I do not know
whether he is the only man who ever admired me, but he is certainly the only one
who ever looked at me so much." "Oh, we must not expect everything arranged just
to our taste," replied Elizabeth; "and whilst you enjoy so much of his
attention, you must not complain if he is not the most sprightly of admirers—the
honour itself should suffice you. His rank is higher, if his wit is not brighter
than Mr. Howard's." "To mention them in the same breath!" cried Emma; "they are
the antipodes of each other—as different in sense as in rank—what a pity their
position cannot be reversed!" "Oh, then your objection to being Lady Osborne is
not after all to the rank but the man," cried Elizabeth, "and you are less
philosophic than you pretended to be. But if Mr. Howard had been a peer, perhaps
you would never have known him." "Very likely not," said Emma calmly, "but I do
not see what that has to do with it." "Now don't pretend to be so very innocent
and simple-minded, Emma; you know, as well as I do, that the two men are both in
love with you, and you, ambitious monkey, not content with things as they are,
and choosing between worth and rank, wish to have every advantage combined in
one, for your own special acceptance." "How can you talk such nonsense,
Elizabeth?" said Emma coloring. "I deny the accusation stoutly; it is you who
are unreasonable, whilst I am talking in the most matter-of-fact way
imaginable." Emma was silent, and after waiting a minute, her sister began
again:

"I wonder what Tom Musgrove will say when he hears we have dined at the Castle?"
"Some nonsense I dare say," replied Emma; "I believe his boastings were at the
bottom of your curiosity to go there; you wished to surprise him." "Yes I think
I did—but was it like what you expected? it was all so grand and formal that _I_
felt quite uncomfortable. I am glad to have been, and still more glad that I
have come away." "It was not the first time I have been in a large house," said
Emma, "and I was not surprised at anything I saw; except that Lady Osborne
should take the trouble of wearing so many jewels, and dress in so very juvenile
a style." "Were you not jealous, Emma? Did you not notice how she flirted with
Mr. Howard?" "For shame, Elizabeth, to say such things of our hostess." "Nay,
indeed it is only truth—I think he had much better marry her. I dare say she has
a good jointure, and she may not be very disagreeable to him perhaps! what would
you say to that?" "That he must be a very different Mr. Howard from what I fancy
him, if he can be induced to marry for the sake of a jointure," replied Emma
firmly. "But perhaps he is in love with her," persisted Miss Watson. "That
alters the case," said Emma who did not believe anything of the kind. "I rather
think he must be," continued her sister, "he looked so much pleased at her
calling him to the sofa. Or I will tell you another idea that struck me, perhaps
he is attached to Miss Osborne, and pays his court to her mother to gain her
good word." "My dear Elizabeth," cried Emma rather impatiently, "you have within
the last five minutes, concluded Mr. Howard in love with three different people.
Some of your conjectures cannot be right, but they may all be wrong—pray leave
off guessing, since you cannot arrive at any conclusion." "I like Miss Osborne,"
said Elizabeth, after a moment's pause. "So do I," replied her sister. "Better
than Miss Carr," continued Miss Watson, "I have a little fear of Miss Carr; but,
Emma, I wonder how my father and Margaret get on, I am afraid he will find it
very dull; she does not like backgammon or reading out loud—and this snow will
prevent his getting the newspaper, or seeing any one to amuse him." "Yes, I am
afraid so," sighed Emma, "it is very pleasant here, but I wish we were home
again." "I wish home were like this," continued Miss Watson, "as airy and
cheerful, and elegant-looking—what a nice room this is—we have not such a room
in our house—and I am sure our furniture never looks so well, take what care I
can of it. You had better take this for your own room when you are Mrs. Howard."
"I really wish you would not talk in that way, Elizabeth," remonstrated Emma,
"it can do no good, and it will make me feel very uncomfortable." "I beg your
pardon, I will try not," said her sister laughing. Long after her sister was
asleep, Emma herself was thinking over the events of the morning, and recalling
to memory every tone and word and look of Mr. Howard. She weighed them all, and
tried to comprehend the cause of the changes which seemed to her rather sudden.
She could hardly suppose it a caprice—she did not think him guilty of that—but
why vary so completely. She wished to be liked by him; she was pleased with the
society both of himself and his sister, and he feared if she did not approve of
her manners, or disliked her conversation, his sister likewise would draw back
from the friendship which seemed to have begun so prosperously, and she should
lose the pleasantest acquaintance she had found since returning to her father's
house. CHAPTER X. The aspect of the next morning did not promise any additional
facility for returning home; more snow had fallen during the night, and the
cutting wind which had accompanied it assured them that the lanes would be still
less practicable than before. Emma, assured by the parting words of Lord Osborne
that she was doomed to see and be seen by him again, tried to compose her mind
and features to bear the threatened inspection. Instead of a visit from him,
however, noon brought down a little note from Miss Osborne, reminding her of a
wish expressed the night before to see the picture-gallery at the Castle, and
offering, if Mr. Howard would escort her up in time for luncheon, to go round
with her afterwards. "Do you think your brother could spare the time to
accompany me?" said she to Mrs. Willis, after communicating to her the contents
of the note. "I should be so much obliged if he would—because—" she added rather
hesitating, "I do not like to go alone, lest I should encounter the young lord."
"And you do not like him, my dear?" said Mrs. Willis with a bright look. "I do
not mind him much," replied Emma; "but I think I would rather not throw myself
in his way: going alone would be almost like inviting his escort. Will you ask
your brother?" "I will go to him immediately—but I have no doubt of his
acquiescence, and I can assure you in promising you Edward's company through the
picture-gallery Miss Osborne is securing you a _very_ great pleasure." "It would
I am afraid be encroaching too much on Mr. Howard's time," replied Emma, "to
exact his attentions as a cicerone. Miss Osborne has promised to go round with
me herself." "Miss Osborne sometimes breaks her word," said Mrs. Willis coolly;
"and as she has usually a good many engagements, perhaps you had better trust to
my brother since you seem determined to shun hers." "I should not expect much
intellectual gratification from Lord Osborne's company, or his remarks on
painting," replied Emma, almost laughing at the idea. Mrs. Willis left the room,
to speak to her brother. She found him of course in his study, from whence
Charles had just been dismissed. "Edward, are you busy?" said she. "No; what do
you want, Clara?" looking up for a moment and then returning to his papers. "I
was just coming to the parlour." "It is not I, but Emma Watson who wants you."
Mr. Howard turned round to look at his sister with an expression half pleased,
half incredulous. "Yes indeed, so you need not stare so; Miss Osborne has sent
down to ask you to bring her to lunch at the Castle, and go through the picture-
gallery afterwards—that is to say, she has promised to go through the gallery,
but you must be sure to accompany them." Mr. Howard bent over his papers again
for a moment in silence. "Why do not you answer, Edward? There is nothing to
prevent your going, is there?—and I am sure you cannot dislike it." "Oh, no—but
Emma—what did she say to it?" "She begged me to come and engage you as her
escort, that she might avoid falling into the company of Lord Osborne, who she
seemed to apprehend might be lying in wait for her. Elizabeth Watson does not
care for paintings, and means to remain with me." "It will give me the greatest
pleasure," said Mr. Howard, starting up, and beginning to put away his books and
papers. "Now, or at any time she will name, I am quite at her service. When does
she wish to go?" "Immediately, I should think, as they lunch at one—that is, as
soon as she can get herself ready. I will go back and give her your message at
once." They were soon on their way. The air was bright and exhilarating—and it
would have been very pleasant walking but for the ground being exceedingly
slippery. It may be doubtful whether Mr. Howard thought this an evil, since it
compelled his companion to lean on him for support, up the steep ascent which
conducted them to the castle. Even with the assistance of his arm, she was
obliged to pause and take breath, before they had accomplished more than half
the ascent. From the point where they stood, they commanded a beautiful view—the
parsonage and the church lying snugly at their feet, and the snow-clad country
stretching out beyond, chequered with rich hanging woods of beech on the sides
of the hills, and thick coppices of underwood down in the valley. Emma expressed
her admiration with enthusiasm. Mr. Howard assured her that if she would move a
short distance along a path to the left, she would enjoy a still more splendid
panorama. The snow had been swept from off the gravel, and Emma could not resist
the temptation, though it was diverging from their object. There was plenty of
time,—since they need not be at the castle till one—and it was now little more
than half past twelve. They turned into the path accordingly, and soon reached
the spot he had mentioned: from this point they likewise had a peep at the
castle, situated some way above them; and whilst they were standing there, Mr.
Howard observed:

"There is Lord Osborne just coming out at the side door, near his own rooms—do
you see him." Emma perceived and watched him. "I think he is taking the path to
your house—is he not?" "Yes, we shall meet him presently, if we turn and pursue
our walk upwards." "Oh! then, pray let us stay here till he is gone past," said
Emma, hastily. "I do not wish to meet him in the least." Mr. Howard looked so
excessively pleased that Emma deeply coloured, and was nearly thinking his eyes
as troublesome as those of his former pupil. It will easily be believed that he
did not press the proposition to meet Lord Osborne,—on the contrary, he
acquiesced with very good grace in her wish to remain concealed till all danger
of encountering him was passed away. As soon as the winding of the path hid him
entirely from sight, they proceeded upwards and reached the castle without
further incident, having only consumed half an hour in a walk which might have
been easily accomplished in a third of that time. Yet Emma did not find the walk
tedious, and Mr. Howard never discovered the period it had occupied. They were
shewn to Miss Osborne's own sitting room, where they found her practising on the
harp. Miss Carr was lounging amongst the soft pillows of a comfortable
chair—from which she hardly raised herself to address the visitors. Her friend
was extremely good-humoured and civil. She pressed Emma's hand
affectionately—enquired tenderly after her health, and expressed herself
excessively obliged by her coming. "Luncheon is waiting," added she, "you will
not see mama, she is never visible of a morning—but did you not meet my
brother?" Emma coloured, and as she did not answer immediately, Mr. Howard
replied—

"We saw him at a distance—but he did not join us." "I am surprised," said Miss
Carr, "for I know he set off on purpose to escort Miss Emma Watson up here.
Which way did you come, to pass him?" "It is easily accounted for," replied
Emma, calmly, "Mr. Howard had taken me out of the direct road to shew me a good
view of the castle—and Lord Osborne passed whilst we were looking at it." "It is
a pity you did not stop him," pursued Miss Carr, "he would not then have had his
walk for nothing." Emma made no answer. She did not think it necessary to inform
Miss Carr that the honor of Lord Osborne's company was not a thing that she
coveted. When their luncheon was over, Miss Osborne renewed her offer of guiding
Emma through the picture gallery—observing that they had better not lose time,
as there was no light to spare in a winter's afternoon. "But you must come too,"
continued she, addressing Mr. Howard. "I am sure you know more about the
pictures than I do—and are much better worth listening to on _that_ subject, at
least." "Your humility, Miss Osborne, is most commendable," said he, with a
playful bow. "Oh, yes, I am the humblest creature in the world—there are some
things in which I believe you and a few others are wiser than myself—Greek and
mathematics for instance." "Your learning in those two branches did not use to
be remarkable." "Oh, I dare say I know as much as half those who have passed
through Eton—they learnt to forget—I forgot to learn—there is not much
difference." "Not as you state it, certainly; apparently, you hold the learning
of your acquaintance rather cheaply." "Well, perhaps I do—but, really, one
seldom meets with _very_ wise men in these days: one _hears_ such prodigies have
existed in former times—but, I dare say they were not at all like the generality
of our gentlemen companions, and would be sadly at a loss to comprehend our
amusements, could they re-appear on the scene." "You know scholars are
proverbially awkward, bashful and absent—and, unless you would tolerate all
those capital crimes, you need not wish for them in your company." "I look upon
you as a scholar, Mr. Howard," said the young lady, laughing. "I cannot plead
guilty to the impeachment, Miss Osborne." "But I do not consider you
particularly awkward nor intolerably bashful—and—what was the third crime you
laid to the charge of scholars?" "I forget." "What intolerable affectation,"
cried Miss Osborne, "you want to be accused of absence of mind. But here we are
at the gallery. Now, Miss Watson, make Mr. Howard tell you all about them." The
collection was really a very good one, and Emma was delighted. Miss Osborne
looked at two or three, then sauntered about the room—looked out of the
window—and, at length, returning to her companions, said:

"I have just recollected an engagement, for which I must leave you—I will be
back as soon as I can; but don't hurry, and don't wait for me. You may be quite
comfortable here, nobody will disturb you." She then left them to another
protracted _tête-à-tête_; a particularly pleasant circumstance to Mr. Howard,
who found an increasing charm in Emma's conversation. When tired of walking
about and straining their eyes upwards, they sat down on a comfortable sofa in a
recess, where they could at once enjoy the view of a beautiful landscape, and
converse comfortably. "You surely must have been used to look at good
paintings," said Mr. Howard, "It is a taste that requires as much cultivation as
any other art. You evidently know how to look at a picture, and how to
appreciate its merit." "I do not pretend to be a connoisseur, I assure you,"
said Emma. "There is no occasion that you should—you have an eye and a taste,
which, lead your judgment right, and I can perceive that you are well acquainted
with the styles as well as the names of great artists." "I almost suspect you of
quizzing me," replied Emma, blushing, "have I been saying or affecting more than
you think I felt." "You are unjust to us both in such an idea," cried he, "I
should not take such a liberty; and you are in no danger of tempting me." "My
kind uncle was extremely fond of the art," said Emma, "and he took me to every
good collection and exhibition within our reach. He likewise took great pains to
form and correct my taste; so that I ought rather to blush at knowing so little,
than receive compliments on the subject." "I do not know of what uncle you are
speaking," said Mr. Howard, in a manner that denoted his interest in her
connections; "you forget that I know almost nothing of your family." "The uncle
who brought me up; Dr. Maitland." "Then you were not educated at Winston?" "I—oh
no—my home was formerly in my uncle's house—I have not been more than two months
resident in my father's family." "I dare say you think me a very stupid fellow
for not being aware of this—but though I saw you were different from your
sisters, and indeed most of the young ladies of the neighbourhood, the reason
never occurred to me." "You thought, I suppose, I was a sort of Cinderella,"
said Emma laughing, "let out by some benevolent fairy on the occasion of one
ball, and that having once escaped into public, I could not be repressed again."
"You know I had not been in your father's house, and had therefore no reason to
assign you an imaginary abode in the kitchen, in preference to the parlour,
where I had never been. But I own I was surprised by your sudden apparition,
since I had neither in ball-room or street, town or country, seen or heard of
more than three Miss Watsons." "I can easily believe it—so protracted an absence
will naturally sink one's name in oblivion." "May I ask if you are to return to
your uncle's house?" "Alas! no—my dear, kind uncle died not quite a twelvemonth
ago—my aunt has left England to settle in Ireland—and my home is now at my
father's." "Is it not with rather a strange sensation that you meet your nearest
relations; they must be almost unknown to you." "I have made acquaintance with
one brother and two sisters," replied Emma with something like a sigh; "But I
have yet to meet another brother and sister." "It seems almost a pity," said Mr.
Howard thoughtfully, "to bring up one child apart and differently from the other
members of a family, if they are ultimately to be rejoined. At least I feel in
my own case how much I should have lost, had Clara been separated from me in
childhood. I suppose it rarely happens that a brother and sister are so much
together as we were—but we were orphans, and everything to each other till her
marriage." "It does not do, Mr. Howard, to indulge in retrospective
considerations, if they tend to make one dissatisfied," said Emma, with an
attempt to check a tear or hide it by a smile; "my friends wished to do
everything for the best, and if the result has been different from their
intentions, they are not to blame. But I do not know that I should choose to
repeat the experiment for one under my care." "Do you like the neighbourhood?"
enquired he, feeling that he had no right to press the last subject further. "I
have seen so little; the weather has been so unfavourable, but it does not
strike me as being very beautiful about Winston. I was used to fine scenery in
the west of England." "Then you will naturally think Winston flat and
uninteresting.—Osborne Castle and its park have beauties, however, which you
cannot despise—but in my enquiry I rather referred to the inhabitants—have you
pleasant neighbours about your father's house—I do not visit in the village."
"We live so very quietly," replied Emma, who had no intention of satisfying his
curiosity as to their acquaintance, "that I have had no opportunity of judging.
I _saw_ a great many people at the ball, but as you must have seen them too, you
are as equal to decide on their appearance as I am." "You know Mr. Tom Musgrove
of course?" "A little." "He is not a person of whom most young ladies answer so
coolly; if I put the same question to five out of six of my acquaintance, they
would reply with rapture—he is charming—divine—a perfect pattern for all
gentlemen." "I understood he was a great favorite," observed Emma, still in the
same composed voice. "I have been used to consider him such a perfect example in
everything relative to the important concerns of fashion and the toilette," said
Mr. Howard, gravely, "things which I know are of the first importance in the
eyes of ladies, that I have seriously proposed when I wish to be particularly
charming to copy him in the tying of his cravat." "I am not quite sure whether I
should think any one improved by copying Mr. Tom Musgrove, from his cravat to
his shoe-buckles: but I have, I am afraid, a wicked prejudice, against any
individual who is considered _universally_ agreeable." "Alas you discourage my
young ambition; if to be universally agreeable is to be hated by you, I shall
leave forthwith my attempts at pleasing. To how many individuals is it allowable
to be friendly? to how many cold? to how many repulsive in order to win your
good opinion." "Impossible for me to answer without more data for my
calculations. You must tell me, to begin with, how many you have been in the
habit of flattering daily!" "None, I assure you—there is not a more sincere
creature under the sun." "I do not quite believe you—but if you will not own to
that—with how many do you consider yourself a particular favorite." "That is an
artful question—you wish to prove me guilty of general agreeableness—but my
native modesty stands my friend there: I do not think more than two thirds of my
acquaintance consider me a very charming fellow—amongst ladies, I mean—of
course, a man's opinion goes for nothing." "Ah, that is too many by half to
please me—if you had always spoken with sincerity, depend upon it your
particular admirers would be less numerous." "But seriously, Miss Watson, why do
you feel a particular enmity to the general favorites of your sex!" "Seriously
then, because I mistrust them." "You think then truth must be sacrificed to
popularity? Is not that rather a severe reflection on the taste of other women."
"I did not mean it as such." "I never knew any one who did not profess to hate
flattery." "Very likely—but I go a step farther—I dislike the flatterer." "And
by what scale do you measure, so as to form a correct decision—is your standard
of your own merit so accurately settled, that you can instantly perceive truth
from flattery, appropriating just so much of a compliment as you deserve, and
rejecting the rest." "I think, Mr. Howard, I am more inclined to decide on the
value of compliments from the character of the giver, than from my own. If an
individual either man or woman dares to say a disagreeable truth, I cannot
suspect them of an agreeable falsehood. Or if they are as ready to praise the
absent, as to compliment the present, then I listen with more complaisance." "It
is fortunate for some men that all young ladies are not like you; their stock of
conversation would be reduced very low, if neither praises of the present nor
abuse of the absent were tolerated." "I differ from you, Mr. Howard. If no one
would _listen_ to slander much less evil would happen in the world; much
unhappiness would be saved—much moral guilt would be avoided." "True: call it by
its right name—slander—and every one shrinks from it; the habit of softening
down our expressions leads to much evil—a little scandal, nobody minds that."
"Most detestable of all is the flattery from mercenary motives. To see a man—a
young man courting, flattering, cajoling a woman for her money—one to whom he
would, were she poor, hardly deign to address a word—selling himself body and
soul for gold—oh, it makes one shudder—it tempts me to unjust, harsh thoughts of
the whole species. Hateful!" Mr. Howard looked at his companion with
considerable surprise. She certainly was using rather strong expressions, and
evidently felt acutely what she was saying. As he, however, was perfectly
ignorant of the circumstances of her aunt's marriage, and never for a moment
thought of anything of the sort, an idea passed through his mind that she might
allude to himself and Lady Osborne, for though he could not plead guilty to
anything on his own part which deserved such condemnation, it was possible his
conduct might appear in this light to her eyes. He did not stop to consider
whether it was probable, or in accordance with her character to make such
personal reflections, but fell into a reverie on the subject of his own manners,
from which he was roused by her addressing him again. "I am quite ashamed, Mr.
Howard, of having spoken so bitterly just now—pray forget what I said if
possible—at least do not decide on my being a very ill-natured person because I
spoke harshly—there are sometimes circumstances on which to reflect invariably
creates unpleasant sensations—but the past is passed, and should not be allowed
to awaken angry feelings." "I fancy we have strayed a long way from the point
which awakened these reflections," said Mr. Howard trying to recover himself
likewise. "Tom Musgrove was the commencement of our dissertation on flattery."
"Mr. Musgrove—yes, so he was, but I had indeed forgotten it; my thoughts were
many miles off—they had gone back many months." "Your opinion of him does not
seem very high," observed he, much relieved at the termination of her sentence.
"My opinion of him is of too little consequence to be worth discussing," replied
Emma: "I have not seen a great deal of him, but I fancy my father does not
estimate him very highly." "But you cannot deny him the advantage of having
plenty to say for himself." "Plenty indeed—sufficient to make any discussion
amongst others on that subject unnecessary." "He is handsome too, in the opinion
of most women." "I do not deny it." "And you know he has a very comfortable
independence." "On that point, Mr. Howard, I feel incredulous: independence is
the very thing he wants. His principal object seems to be to follow another." "I
see you are hardened against him." "You think me prejudiced, no doubt." "I have
no wish to combat your prejudice, or persuade you into liking him against your
will." A pause ensued, when Emma suddenly starting from her reverie, exclaimed,

"It is almost dusk—we must really return home." "True, we can come again another
day; I am sure you may come whenever you feel disposed—I shall be most happy to
escort you." At this moment the door was thrown back, and Lord Osborne himself
appeared. After paying his compliments, he paused a moment, and then observed,

"You must have a precious strong taste for pictures, Miss Watson, to like to
remain in the gallery even when it is too dark to see. I suppose breathing the
same air is pleasant to those who value the art." "We have stayed longer than we
intended, my lord," said Emma; "and I really feel much obliged to your sister
for allowing me such a pleasure; but we expected her to join us." "It's a mighty
fine thing to have such a lot of fine pictures, with all the fine names tacked
on to them. One or two I really like myself—there's one of some horses, by
somebody, excellent—and a Dutch painting of dead game, which is so like you
would really think them all alive. Did you notice it?" "Not particularly—I do
not care much for still life." "Howard there knows all about them: he has the
names and dates and all on the tip of his tongue. Don't you find it a deuced
bore to listen to it?" "On the contrary, I am much obliged to Mr. Howard for the
information." "Well I should be glad, for my part, of a piece of information:
how the—I beg pardon—I mean how the wonder did I contrive to miss you as I was
going down the straight path to the Parsonage." "Because we did not come up the
straight path, my lord." "Well, on my honour, I just was surprised when I got
there to hear you were gone—stole away in fact. 'Holloa! how can that be!' said
I, 'I did not meet them—no indeed.' 'Did you not!' cried Mrs. Willis. 'Well
deuce take it, that is extraordinary!'" "Did she say so indeed," said Emma with
exemplary gravity. "I don't mean to say she used those very words—she thought
them, though, I'm sure, by her look." "But now, my lord, we must wish you good
evening, or Mrs. Willis will be waiting for dinner; and though I am not afraid
of her swearing at us, I do not wish to annoy her." "Ah, yes, Mrs. Willis is
mistress—I know—the Parson there, like myself, is under petticoat government;
nothing like a mother or sister to keep one in order. I'll be bound a wife is
nothing to it. One cannot get away from a sister, and one can't make her quiet
and obedient—you see she has never undertaken anything of the kind, as I
understand wives do when one marries them." "But I have heard, my lord, that
they sometimes break their word and rebel," said Emma with mock solemnity. "Ah,
but that must be the husband's fault, he gives them too much rein—keep a strict
hand on them, that's my maxim." "I recommend you, however, to keep it a secret,
if you wish to find a wife; I assure you no woman would marry you if she knew
your opinion." "Seriously—well but I am sorry I said so then." "Oh, never
mind—there is no harm done as yet—I promise not to betray you—but here we are at
Miss Osborne's room, will she expect us to look in—or shall we go straight home,
Mr. Howard?" "We'll see if Rosa's here," said her brother, opening the door as
he spoke. The room, however, was empty, and there was nothing to be done but
return home. Emma was vexed to find the young peer persisted in escorting them.
Though his conversation had been much shorter than Mr. Howard's, she was far
more weary of it. To hurry her walk, was her only remedy, and the coldness of
the air was a plausible excuse for this. The space which had occupied nearly
half an hour in ascending, was now traversed in five minutes, and breathless but
glowing, the party reached the door of the parsonage. Here Lord Osborne was
really obliged to leave them, and Emma hastened to her room to prepare for
dinner. "Well, Emma," cried Elizabeth, "I should like to know what you have been
doing all this time—what an age you have been gone!" "Looking at pictures,
Elizabeth—you know what I went for." "I know what you went for indeed, but how
do I know what you stayed for. Pictures indeed—looking at pictures for two hours
and a half—and in the dark too!" Emma laughed. "Of what do you suspect me,
Elizabeth?" cried she as her sister placed a candle so as to throw the light on
her face. "Which have you been flirting with?" said Elizabeth taking her
sister's hand, and closely examining her countenance. "The peer or the parson,
which of your two admirers do you prefer?" "How can you ask such an unnecessary
question?" returned Emma, blushing and laughing, yet struggling to disengage
herself, "would you hesitate yourself—is not Lord Osborne the most captivating,
elegant, lively, fascinating young nobleman who ever made rank gracious and
desirable. Would _you_ not certainly accept him?" "Why yes, I think I should—it
would be something to be Lady Osborne—mistress of all those rooms and servants,
carriages and horses. I think I should like it, but then I shall never have the
choice!" "So far as I am concerned, I do not think I shall interfere with your
power of accepting him—if he makes you an offer, do not refuse it on my
account." "Very well—and when I am Lady Osborne, I will be very kind to Mrs.
Howard—I will send and ask her to dine with me most Sundays, and some week days
too." "I hope she will like it." "I will give her a new gown at Easter, and a
pelisse or bonnet at Christmas!" "Your liberality is most exemplary, but in the
midst of your kind intentions to Mrs. Howard, I fear you are forgetting Mrs.
Willis and her dinner. If you do not finish your dressing quickly you will keep
them waiting." Elizabeth took her sister's advice, and finished her toilette
with all possible despatch. It was singular that though invariably consuming
double the time that sufficed for Emma, the result of her efforts in adjusting
her clothes was much less satisfactory. She never looked _finished_. Her hair
was certain to fall down too low; or her gown burst open, or her petticoat
peeped out from underneath: she was always finding a string, or a button, or a
loop wanting, just when such a loss was particularly inconvenient—always in a
hurry, always behind hand, always good-naturedly sorry, but always as far from
amendment. The evening was spent in quiet comfort, far removed from the stately
grandeur of the yester-night's scene—they closed round the fire, chatting and
laughing, cracking nuts and eating home-baked cakes with a zest which Osborne
Castle and its lordly halls could not rival. They talked of the snow melting,
and Charles and his uncle too persisted in the greatest incredulity on that
subject. A hundred other things were discussed, made charming by the ease and
good-humour with which they were canvassed, and then a book was produced.
Shakespeare was placed in Mr. Howard's hands, and he read with a degree of
feeling and taste, which made it very delightful to his listeners. Thus the
evening passed peacefully and quickly, and when they separated for the night, it
was with encreased good will and affection between the parties. CHAPTER XI. The
next morning, though ushered in by no change of the weather, brought a very
material alteration to the Miss Watsons. About eleven o'clock, as the ladies
were working together, their attention was attracted by the sound of carriage
wheels on the drive to the house. Presently a note was handed to Miss Watson,
accompanied by an assurance that the carriage was waiting. With much surprise,
Elizabeth opened the dispatch. It was from her father, and contained information
to the effect, that wearied by their long absence, and finding that the lanes
were still blocked up, he had sent their man to the post town for a chaise, in
which they could return home, by taking the high road, which, although greatly
adding to the distance, was the safest and most expeditious route they could
adopt. He begged them to return immediately in the post-chaise, and Robert could
follow with their own little vehicle after them. Kind as the family had been to
them, the girls were still glad of a prospect of returning home before Sunday,
being conscious that they could be ill spared from their father's house, and
that every hour of enjoyment to them, was probably unpleasant and wearisome to
him. They could not be parted with, of course, without great regret and many
remonstrances on the subject of the dangerous nature of the expedition they were
undertaking. Charles, in particular, gave them such repeated assurances that
they would certainly be upset, that Emma declared her belief that his
foreknowledge arose from having bribed the postilion to bring on a catastrophe.
Mrs. Willis' object seemed to be to overwhelm them with cloaks, furs, shawls,
and everything she could think of to fence the cold away, and Mr. Howard
obviated all difficulty about returning these articles, by volunteering to drive
over as soon as the weather permitted, and fetch them all back. Hopes of a
continued friendship closed the visit, and they parted on the best possible
terms. Their return home was perfectly uneventful. There was not even the cold
to complain of—so well had Mrs. Willis succeeded in wrapping them up. Most
cordial was the welcome they received from Mr. Watson; and Margaret, too, really
looked enlivened by the sight of them. "I shall not let you young ladies go
visiting again in a hurry," said he good-humouredly, "I began to think one of
you must have eloped with Lord Osborne, and the other with Mr. Howard. I assure
you, we have been very dull without you." Such was his salutation—Margaret's ran
as follows:

"Well, I hope you have been having pleasure enough—and that you will have
brought home some news to enliven us. I am sure I am almost dead of stupidity
and dulness. Not a creature have we seen—not an individual has come near us.
Some people contrive to keep all the amusement—all the luck—everything that is
good and pleasant to themselves." The astonishment of Margaret, when she heard
the detail of what had occurred, was excessive; she was ready to cry with
vexation and envy, to think of her sisters having so much to amuse them—of which
she did not partake. With jealous anger she insisted on knowing every
particular, for the sake, apparently, of tormenting herself to the uttermost,
and being as miserable and ill-used as possible. Every dish at dinner—every
jewel in Lady Osborne's necklace—every word said to be spoken by the ladies at
the castle, and every amusement suggested by the inhabitants of the parsonage,
was an additional sting to her mind; and she was more than ever convinced that
it was an act of the most barbarous injustice, the not allowing her to accompany
her sisters—though nothing could be more evident than the total impossibility of
such an arrangement. In vain did Emma try to turn the conversation to some less
irritating topic; Margaret pertinaciously returned to the original theme, and
insisted on learning every thing which her sisters could tell her. There are
various tastes amongst the inhabitants of the world; some delight in making
themselves happy, some in just the reverse; Margaret's pleasure was to fret; her
pastime was to vex herself. Had she been the only victim to this peculiar taste,
there would have been less harm in it; but, unfortunately, her father and
sisters were likewise sufferers, and in as much as they were involuntary
sufferers, and really took no pleasure in her vexation, it was rather hard upon
them to be involved in the same calamity. In progress of time the snow melted
from the ground, and the inhabitants of the rectory at Winston were again set
free from confinement. As soon as the roads became at all passable, Emma began
to catch herself wondering when Mr. Howard would redeem his promise of coming to
fetch the articles with which his sister had supplied them. She likewise
detected herself in what she considered another failing; this was looking round
the untidy rooms of her father's home, with their dingy carpets, faded curtains,
papers soiled by the hands of the servants and children, and tables unpolished
and scratched, and contrasting them mentally with the clear and cheerful aspect
of the apartments where Mrs. Willis was mistress. The grandeur of Osborne Castle
had none of the charms in her eyes which Mrs. Willis' little parlour presented,
and she came to the conclusion that the happiest thing in the world must be to
preside over such an establishment with such a companion. Those feelings,
however, she did not openly express, in which she differed from Elizabeth, who
repeatedly declared that she wished she could make their house resemble Mr.
Howard's. One morning, shortly after their return home, Tom Musgrove, whom they
had not seen since that event, was ushered into the parlour. Margaret, who
happened to be alone, was instantly all agitation and bustle, trying to persuade
him to take her chair by the fire, as she was sure he must be cold, or to accept
the loan of her father's slippers whilst his boots were sent to the kitchen to
dry. He persisted, however, in declining her tender attentions, declaring she
wanted to make an old man of him before his time, and placing himself on the
hearth-rug, with his back to the fire, and his hands behind him, half whistled
an air. Margaret sighed. "It is long since we have seen you," said she; "and the
time has passed very wearily." "Hum," said Tom, stopping in his tune. "Where are
your sisters, Miss Margaret?" "Oh, they are at home again," replied Margaret. "I
believe Emma is with my father, and Elizabeth in the kitchen. Did you hear of
their being away so long?" "How long?" cried Tom. "From Wednesday to Saturday:
there was I left without a creature to speak to except my father and the
servants, snowed up in the house, and if they had only taken me with them, I
should have enjoyed it as much as they did." "I dare say; but how came they to
go?" said Tom, who though really knowing nothing about it, was determined to
learn all he could without betraying his ignorance. "Oh, they wanted to return
Mrs. Willis' visit, and they went over in the pony-chaise, and then the snow
came on and stopped them there all that time. I dare say they liked to stay, for
I have no doubt but they might have come home had they tried. At last my father
was obliged to send for a post-chaise to fetch them home in, and they came on
Saturday." "And they liked it very much, did they?" "Oh yes, of course—was it
not hard I could not go too? I am always thwarted and ill-used." "I wish your
sister Emma would come down; she is always shut up in your father's room; I
called here on purpose to see her." "I dare say she will come presently—do sit
down here; I am sure you ought to rest yourself; you seem to have had a very
dirty ride." "You could not go and call her, I suppose?" "Oh no, she will come
when she has done reading to my father. Do take something—a biscuit and a glass
of wine, or something of that kind." "Quite unnecessary, I have but just
breakfasted. I do not keep such gothic hours as some of my friends do. I am able
to please myself—a free and independent man." "No doubt a happy one. Ah, Mr.
Musgrove, you are most fortunate. You cannot tell the misery, the low spirits,
the—the—in short all we poor helpless women suffer from, how much heart-breaking
sorrow we endure in silence—bitterness of heart of which the world knows
nothing." Tom only whistled again in reply to this very pathetic address, then
turning round began to examine the ornaments on the chimney-piece. Even Margaret
could not quite blind herself to the change in his manner since the period when
her smiles seemed the object he most coveted. Presently he began again. "Whilst
your sisters were at Howard's did they see much of the Osbornes?" Before
Margaret had time to give an account of the visit to the Castle, Elizabeth
entered the room. "So I understand, Miss Watson, you have been playing the
truant, and been obliged to be brought back almost by force." "And are you come
to congratulate or condole with me on our return?" "I am come to wish you joy
about being overwhelmed in the snow. I little thought when I was last at Osborne
Castle we were such near neighbours." "When were you there?" cried Elizabeth.
"Let me see—I think it was Thursday. I am there very often, but I think Thursday
was the last day. How droll it would have been had we met." "Emma," cried Miss
Watson, as her youngest sister just then entered the room, "Mr. Musgrove says he
was at the Castle on Thursday." "Oh," said Emma. "I wonder we did not hear of
it," pursued Elizabeth. "Miss Osborne never mentioned it." "How do you like Miss
Osborne," enquired Tom, who wanted to appear perfectly well informed as to what
had passed, and was, therefore, ashamed of asking questions which might betray
his real ignorance. "She seems a very pleasant, amiable young lady," replied
Elizabeth, "don't you think so, Emma." "Yes," replied she, quietly. "Did she
know you were friends of mine, Miss Watson? Miss Emma, did she not talk about
me?" "No, indeed," replied Emma, with much satisfaction; "we never heard your
name mentioned the whole time we were in company with her." "How did you hear we
had been there," enquired Elizabeth. "I think Osborne mentioned it on Saturday,
when I saw him for a minute," then seating himself by Emma, who was a little
apart from the others, he whispered; "He told me the beautiful, but obdurate
Miss Watson had been at Howard's parsonage. Why do you treat him with such
scorn, Miss Emma? You will drive my poor friend to despair." "I should be sorry
to think that I merited your accusation, Mr. Musgrove: scorn cannot be a
becoming quality in a young lady." "Nay, there can be nothing unbecoming which
you can do; youth and beauty have unlimited privileges," whispered he again.
"Miss Osborne vows you eclipse Miss Carr in beauty, and she would rather have
you for a friend. She is dying to be introduced to you." "It is quite
unnecessary to inflict such a death upon her even in imagination, Mr.
Musgrove—for our acquaintance has progressed too far for that phrase to be at
all applicable to it." "Yes now, I dare say; Osborne told me, but I forget, you
went over the castle I think." "No, we did not." "You did not! that was unlucky;
I wish I had known you were going, I would have been there, and I could have
suggested it to Miss Osborne; I dare say she would have shewn you all the
rooms." "She offered to do so, but we put it off till another time; we thought
we should be too hurried." "It's a pity you did not dine there; its something
quite grand to see all the plate—I quite enjoy it—they give such good dinners."
"You do not seem aware that we _did_ dine there," replied Emma, "and, as I had
seen other large establishments before, I saw nothing so very astonishing at
their table." "You did dine there—yes—but that was in a family way; the thing is
to see a regular great dinner—twenty people sitting down—that is what I like."
"I am not fond of large dinner parties; unless one has a very pleasant neighbour
they are apt to be dull." "Very much so—very much so indeed; I quite agree with
you, a little, quiet, social dinner—where one person can talk and the others
listen, that is pleasant. You get every thing hot and quickly—that's the thing!"
Emma did not feel called on to answer, and presently he added:

"I should like to have _you_ for a neighbour at such a dinner." Emma was still
obdurately silent, and Mr. Musgrove, to recompense himself, turned to Elizabeth,
and began to talk to her. As soon as her attention was released Emma left the
room, and throwing on a bonnet and cloak, determined to take refuge in the
garden as the day was fine, and she longed for fresh air. Hardly had she quitted
the entrance, however, when her attention was attracted by the sound of wheels
in the lane, and looking up her cheek crimsoned with pleasure at perceiving Mr.
Howard. The pleasure was certainly mutual, judging from the alacrity with which
he sprang from the carriage to meet and address her. There was no mistaking the
look and air with which he advanced, it was the genuine expression of a cordial
welcome, met with equal though more bashful cordiality on her side. He was come,
of course, to redeem his promise of fetching back his sister's property; she
would have come also, but she had a cold which confined her to the house. But he
had another object in his visit—he was the bearer of an invitation to herself
and sisters to attend a concert at the Castle, which was to take place in the
afternoon, and to be followed by a ball in the evening. Miss Osborne hoped they
would excuse her mother's not having called on them; she scarcely ever paid
visits, never in the winter, or she would have accompanied her daughter to the
Vicarage when they were there. Emma read the note which was addressed to
herself, and felt very much pleased. It contained, besides the invitation to the
ball for herself and sisters, a most pressing request that she would pay a
lengthened visit at the Castle; over this she pondered long, and then ended with
coming to no conclusion, suddenly remembering that she was detaining Mr. Howard
out of doors, when she ought to have allowed him to enter the house. "You will
find Mr. Tom Musgrove sitting with my sisters," continued she; "but if you will
be so kind as _not_ to mention the contents of the note before him, you would
greatly oblige me." "Could I not see Mr. Watson?" replied Mr. Howard; "I wish to
call on him, and perhaps when my visit to him is over your sisters will be
disengaged." "Certainly; I am sure my father would have great pleasure in seeing
you," said Emma much gratified; "allow me to show you the way." She ushered him
accordingly to her father's dressing-room, and having witnessed the very cordial
reception which Mr. Watson offered him, she was about to withdraw, but her
father stopped her. "I am sure you can have nothing particular to do, Emma, so
you may just as well stay and talk to Mr. Howard—I like very much to hear you,
but you know I am not strong enough to converse myself." "I am sure, my dear
father, nobody talks half so well when you are equal to it, but indeed you must
not fancy yourself unwell, or you will frighten Mr. Howard away." "When Mr.
Howard has reached my age, my dear, and felt half the pain that I do, from gout
and dyspepsia, he will be very glad to set his daughter to talk for him, my
dear; so I beg you will stay." "I wish I enjoyed the prospect of realizing your
picture, my dear sir; a daughter exactly like Miss Emma Watson would be indeed a
treasure." "But remember it is to be purchased at the expense of gout, and you
must not look for it these thirty years, Mr. Howard," said Emma laughing. "When
the sacrifice is complete you will talk in a very different strain." Mr. Howard
_looked_ very incredulous, but said nothing more on that subject. Emma then
mentioned the note she had received; her father began to murmur. "The Osbornes
will all turn all your heads with their balls and their visits, child," said he
pettishly. "I wish you had never known them." Emma looked down. "I am sure I do
not wish to go, if you dislike it," said she, in a voice which rather trembled.
It was evident to Mr. Howard that she _did_ wish it very much. Mr. Watson began
again. "What am I to do if you are going away for two or three days? You are but
just come home as it is—I cannot do without you." "Then I, at all events, can
stay with you," replied Emma cheerfully, "and my sisters can do as they please."
Annoyed at the gentleman's selfishness, Mr. Howard felt inclined to interpose,
but doubted whether he should not do more harm than good. Emma knew better, or
acted more wisely in not contradicting him, for like many irritable people, the
moment he found himself unopposed, he began to relent, and said in a more placid
voice,

"What's the invitation, read it again, Emma, I am not quite clear about it."
Emma complied. "Well, I do not know; she does not want you all to stay over the
ball—and as Elizabeth will be at home, perhaps I could spare you for a day or
two." "Elizabeth would like to go to the ball too, papa." "Yes, yes, but then
she and Margaret would come home at night, and I should not be all day alone. I
think you might go—you must have a post-chaise and a pair of horses to take you,
I suppose, and bring your sisters back again. Would you like it, my dear?" "Very
much, sir, if it does not disturb you." Like it indeed—the words served but
coldly to express the pleasure with which her heart beat at the idea. It was so
very kind of Miss Osborne to think of her in that way, and it was so very
pleasant to see how much consequence Mr. Howard attached to her acceptance of
the offer. She had not dared to look quite at him; but the first glance she had
ventured on, showed in his face an expression of deep interest, not to be
mistaken, and now looking up, she met his eyes fixed on her with a look which
immediately sunk hers again to the ground, and seemed to call all the blood from
her heart to her cheeks. "I am sure," cried he, speaking hurriedly to relieve
her embarrassment, "Miss Osborne would have been exceedingly disappointed had
you settled otherwise. I can venture to assert, sir, that Miss Osborne is very
fond of your daughter, and extremely anxious to cultivate her acquaintance." "I
dare say, I dare say, why should she not; but I hope Emma does not flatter her
to win her good will." "I hope not, sir," said Emma, "I should despise myself if
I did." "It is impossible that it should be necessary," cried Mr. Howard. "Miss
Osborne is not to be propitiated by flattery, and it would require, on Miss
Emma's part, nothing beyond her natural manners to produce a wish to carry on
the acquaintance." "I suppose Miss Osborne desired you to make civil speeches
for her," said Mr. Watson, laughing. "No, I do it of my own free will, my dear
sir." Mr. Howard's visit was long and lively; Mr. Watson was evidently cheered
by it, and pressed him to renew it. "I am afraid I ask what is not agreeable,"
continued he; "I dare say I am dull and unpleasant; but if you knew what a treat
it is to me to see cheerful faces, you would not wonder at my selfish wish. You,
Mr. Howard, and Emma do me good." There was something very pleasant to Emma's
ears in hearing her name thus connected with Mr. Howard's; and it was not
unwelcome to the young man either, who warmly pressed her father's hand, and
promised readily to come as often as he could. "And mind, Emma, when he does
come, you bring him to me," said her father; "it is not every young man that I
care to see. Your Tom Musgroves, and such young dandies, are not at all to my
mind; but a young man who listens to what his elders say, and does not flout and
jeer at them, but shows a proper respect to age and experience, that's what I
like. I shall be happy to see you, Mr. Howard, whenever you can come." After
renewing his promise to be a regular and frequent visitor, Mr. Howard was
conducted by Emma to the parlour, from whence they found Tom Musgrove had
departed. Her two sisters looked up as if surprised to see Emma and her
companion; but their pleasure much exceeded their surprise, when they learnt the
nature of the embassy with which he was charged. Margaret especially, who had
formed most exalted ideas of the nature and felicity of a visit to the castle,
was at first in a perfect rapture. She was certain that the whole affair would
be in the most superlative style of excellence; that Miss Osborne must be a lady
of first rate taste and talent; that the company would be select in an
extraordinary degree, and in short that she should never have known what
grandeur, beauty, elegance, and taste meant, but for Lady Osborne's invitation
to the concert and ball. She determined to do her best to make her court to the
whole family of Osbornes, and had great hopes of becoming an especial favorite
with them all. It was not till after Mr. Howard's departure, which took place
after a visit of about ten minutes, that a cloud came over her bright vision.
She then learnt the sad fact that Emma was invited to remain at the castle, but
that she herself was to return home. This discovery made her very angry; she
could comprehend no reason for such a marked preference; why should Miss Osborne
invite Emma who was the youngest, and exclude herself; it really surpassed her
comprehension; it was most extraordinary; she had a great mind not to go at all;
she would let Miss Osborne see that she was not to be treated with neglect; she
was not a person to come and go at any one's bidding; if Miss Osborne could ask
Emma, why not herself too; she surely had as much claim to attention. Then she
turned to Emma and required her to promise that she would not accept the
invitation. But Emma said she had done so already. She had written a note which
Mr. Howard had charge of; and she was not to be induced to retract. Margaret
grew quite angry, accusing her of being mean-spirited and servile, fawning on
Miss Osborne, and winning her favor only by her base concessions; she said
everything which an irritated and jealous temper could suggest, and tormented
Emma into tears at her crossness and ill-will. "I wonder you mind her, Emma,"
remonstrated Elizabeth, when she discovered that her sister's eyes were red, and
wrung from her an acknowledgment of the cause. Elizabeth had not been present
when the discussion which pained Emma so much, had taken place. "It's not the
least use fretting about Margaret's ill-temper and teazing ways—she always was a
plague and a torment from a child, and there's no chance of her being any
better. She is so abominably selfish. But I cannot bear her to make you cry." "I
dare say you think me very foolish," replied Emma, wiping her eyes, "but I have
never been used to be crossly spoken to, and it quite upsets me." "No, I don't
think you foolish, Emma; you are only much too good and tender for this
situation. I shall be glad when you are married and safe with Mr. Howard, and
nobody to scold you or make you spoil your beauty by crying." "Nonsense,
Elizabeth." "It's not nonsense, Emma, I believe he is very good-natured, and I
dare say you will be very happy with him. How long were you _tête-à-tête_, with
him, before you brought him into the parlour?" "We came from my father's room
then." "Oh, you need not apologise; I think you were quite right to have a
comfortable chat with him, before bringing him into Margaret's company. It is
but little conversation you can have when she is by. I saw you with him in the
garden." Emma blushed. "I assure you we did not stay there five minutes; he came
to call on my father, and we went to him immediately." Elizabeth only answered
by a look; but it was a look which shewed that she was not in the least
convinced by Emma's assertions, but only wondered that she should think them
necessary. END OF VOL. I.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE YOUNGER SISTER, VOL II. CHAPTER I. The invitation to the important party was
not for an early date; ten days must elapse before the arrival of the day
expected to bring so much happiness with it. The comfort of the Watson family
suffered alternations which could only be compared to the ebbing and flowing of
the tide, but that their recurrence could not be calculated on with equal
certainty. When the pleasure she was to enjoy occupied her mind, Margaret was
comparatively happy; the arrangement of her dress, the minor difficulties about
ornaments and shoes, were even then sufficient to destroy her equanimity, and
detract from her peace of mind; but this was nothing to the state of acidity and
fermentation which her temper presented, when the grand insult of not being Miss
Osborne's friend, and not invited to stay at the Castle, recurred in vivid
colors to her memory. But three days before the important morning, a very
unexpected event threw the whole family into a ferment. Just as the two elder
sisters were setting off to the town, to see if their new bonnets were making
the progress which was desirable, the sudden appearance of a post-chaise
startled them. Emma, who was in her father's room as usual, heard the wheels on
the gravel, and naturally supposing that it was the old pony-chaise leaving the
door, was perfectly astonished the next minute by the startling uproar which
resounded through the hall. Loud laughter, and a mingled clatter of tongues,
which might almost be denominated screaming, convinced her that whatever was the
origin, it was not of a tragic nature, but her awakened curiosity made her long
to know the cause, through she feared to move, as her father had fallen into a
gentle doze. A shriller exclamation than before suddenly roused him from his
slumber, and starting up he exclaimed:

"What are those confounded women about? Emma, go and bid them all be quiet."
Emma escaped from the room to obey his behest, and on reaching the turn of the
stairs paused a moment to see who was there; just then she caught her own name.
"Emma is at home," said Margaret, "and as I really want to go, I shall not mind
you. Pen, you can go and sit with her." "Very well, it's all the same to me,"
replied a stranger, who she inferred was her unknown sister, "I am sure I don't
want to keep you at home." And as she spoke she turned again to the door, "I say
driver, you just get that trunk lifted in, there's a good fellow, and see you
don't turn it bottom upwards, my man, or I vow I won't give you a sixpence—do
you hear?" The driver grinned and proceeded to pull down the trunk, whilst
Penelope Watson stood at his elbow, and flourished an umbrella in her hand, very
much as if she meant to enforce her threats with blows. When satisfied, however,
with the care which he took of her property, she had paid and dismissed him, she
turned to her sisters, exclaiming:

"There, now you may bundle off too, as fast as you please, my bonnet and gown
and all are in that trunk, and you shall not see them till I put them on, lest
you should try and copy them." "How very ill-natured," cried Margaret. "No, it
isn't, what becomes me would never suit you, so I only prevent you making a
fright of yourself. Where's Emma? I want to see her." "Here I am," said she
timidly advancing, for Penelope's loud voice quite overpowered her courage.
"Here I am," mimicked Penelope, advancing towards her, "and how does your little
ladyship do, pray? Why are you so long coming to welcome your new sister? I am
sure you ought to have learnt more affection from Margaret." Emma did not know
what to answer to this attack, but looked at Elizabeth rather distressed. "Never
mind, Penelope," replied Miss Watson to her look, "she always says what she
pleases; well, Margaret is waiting in the chaise, so I must go; Emma, will you
take Pen to my father?" And Elizabeth hastened away as she spoke. Penelope
turned to her remaining sister, and surveyed her from head to foot—

"Well," said she, "I suppose I had better go and report myself first, and then I
can settle about my things; upon my word, Emma, you are very pretty, I am so
glad you have dark hair and eyes; Margaret makes me quite sick of fair skins, by
her nonsense about her own. Here I am, sir," cried she, advancing into her
father's room as she spoke, "come to waken you all up; I am sure the old house
looks as if it had gone to sleep since I went away, and there is the same fly on
the window, I protest, as when I was last in the room. How do you do, my dear
sir?" "None the better for all the confounded clatter you have been making in
the hall, I can tell you; I thought you had brought home a dozen children at
your heels, judging from the uproar you created. What mad freak has possessed
you now, Penelope?" "Oh! I came for two things—one was to go to the Osborne
Castle ball—the other I'll tell you by-and-bye." "You are always racing over the
country, and bent on having your own way, I know." "So is every one; but they
don't all know how to get it, so well as I do; but I see I'm disturbing you, so
I shall go and unpack my rattle-traps—Emma come with me." Emma seemed to obey
instinctively—but she felt no pleasure in accompanying her sister. Her voice,
look and manner, were alike uninviting, and she felt inclined to shrink from
her. Penelope went to the parlour, and stirring the fire, drew in a chair close
to the chimney—placed her feet upon the fender, and then turning abruptly round
to her sister, said—

"So it is all your doing, is it, our going to the castle balls; it is really
something new—Margaret wrote me word you and Miss Osborne were bosom friends?"
Emma coloured, but did not know what to say in reply. "How sheepish you look,
Emma," cried her sister, "one would think you were ashamed of it all; I am sure
I think it vastly clever of you to get up a friendship with Miss Osborne, or a
flirtation with her brother. I've a great respect for girls who know how to push
their way and make the most of circumstances. What sort of young fellow is Lord
Osborne?,"

"Plain and quiet," replied Emma. "As if I did not know _that_," cried Penelope,
"why, I've seen him hundreds of time, child; almost before you were born. I mean
is he pleasant?—can he talk nonsense?—does he know how to make himself
agreeable?" "That must depend upon taste," replied Emma, "he never was
particularly pleasant to me; and, as to his talking, it's neither good sense,
nor good nonsense." "Do you know what good nonsense is, Emma?" cried Penelope,
"Why, then, I dare say you may not be quite detestable." "I should hope not,"
said Emma, trying to smile. "I thought your uncle might, perhaps, have made a
Methodist of you, and that would not have suited me. Those musty old doctors of
divinity have, sometimes, queer notions." "I must beg, Penelope, when you
mention my late uncle, you will do so with respect," said Emma, with spirit.
Penelope looked surprised—and, for a moment, was silent; when next she spoke it
was to question Emma minutely, as to the quality, price and texture of her
dress, for the important day and night in prospect. "I expect Margaret will be
ready to expire with envy, when she sees the real Indian muslin that I mean to
wear," pursued she, in a tone of great satisfaction; "I am not going to tell you
how I came by it—for that's a great secret for some days to come. Is not
Margaret horridly jealous?" Emma looked shocked. "Oh, I see!" laughed Penelope,
"you are too good to abuse a sister—quite a Miss Charity or Miss Meek of a good
little girl's prize book. But, if you like to sit like a goose weighing every
word you are about to utter, I can tell you that does not suit me at all. I
always say what comes into my head, without caring for anybody." As Emma,
however, did not follow the same method, she did not express how very unpleasant
a course she considered it; and the sisters did not quarrel then. "How has
Margaret got on with Tom Musgrove?" continued Penelope, "by-the-bye, have you
seen Tom Musgrove, yourself?" "A little," said Emma. "And how do you like
him?—what do you think of him?—do you think he is in love with Margaret?"
pursued Penelope. "No," replied Emma, answering only to the last question. "Nor
do I; I don't see that he is at all more in love with her, than he has been with
twenty other girls—myself included. But it's very good fun talking to him when
he is in spirits. Emma can you keep a secret?" "Yes, I hope so, when necessary;
but I would rather have none to keep." "How absurd—why, it's the best fun
possible, to have a good secret; I would tell you one, if you would promise not
to betray it." "I shall be very happy to hear anything you like to tell me, and,
I dare say you would not ask me to do anything wrong." "Wrong! why, are you such
a little Methodist, as to consider whether every thing is wrong—it's my own
affair, and how can there be anything wrong in my telling you if I like? If one
always stops to meditate whether any one would think a thing wrong, one might
give over talking altogether." Emma was silent from not very well knowing what
to say in reply; and, after a momentary pause, Penelope went on:

"Now, the only reason I want you not to tell is, because I wish to surprise all
the others by the news some day. You will promise not to mention it!" "You had
much better not tell me at all, Penelope; because then, your secret will
certainly be safe," said Emma, good-humouredly; "if you, who are interested in
it, cannot resist telling it—how can you expect me to be proof to such a
temptation?" "You are very much mistaken," said Penelope, angrily tossing her
head, "if you suppose I cannot resist telling any thing I wish to keep secret; I
assure you, I am quite as discreet, when occasion requires, as your little
ladyship can be, though I do not set up to be so superior to all my family, and
give myself airs of discretion and superfine prudence." Emma saw she had made
her sister angry—though she did know exactly how or why, and she attempted, but
vainly, to apologise for the involuntary offence. Penelope was not to be
propitiated. "I can tell you, Miss Emma, it's no use at all, your trying to be
so grand and indifferent; it was not a trifling mark of my regard, what I was
going to tell you, but, if you do not wish to hear it, you may let it alone. I
dare say, Margaret will shew more interest in my concerns; I can tell her some
day." And with these words, Penelope rose and hastily quitted the room, slamming
the door after her with all her might. During the three succeeding days there
was every possible opportunity taken by her to display to Emma the superior
confidence with which Margaret was treated. Slips of paper were continually
thrown across the table, containing mysterious words or incomprehensible signs.
There was whispering too in corners, and talking with their fingers; hints were
thrown out, which convulsed Margaret with laughing, but in which the uninitiated
could see no joke; and every means taken to raise a curiosity which would have
flattered Pen's self-importance. Elizabeth and Emma bore this infliction with
remarkable heroism—having a strong internal conviction that a secret which
required so much exertion to give it importance could not be much worth knowing,
or that it would soon certainly become public. Affairs were in this state when
the important day, which had already excited such intense speculation or
anticipation in the minds of the four sisters. Emma's toilette was very
satisfactory to herself in its results, she hoped she should not be the plainest
or worst dressed person in the room, and she certainly took especial care to
arrange her hair in a way that she had reason to think Mr. Howard admired. Duly
were they transported to the scene of such great anticipations, and when they
had sufficiently arranged their dresses and shaken out the creases, after being
so very much squeezed, they were marshalled up the grand staircase into the
state-apartment. It was worth while to watch Margaret's countenance, when, for
the first time, contemplating the rich furniture and evidences of wealth which
surrounded her. An overpowering sense of her own insignificance, and a
conviction, that amidst so much that was rich, beautiful, and costly, her own
elaborate toilette would pass unregarded, were the most prominent of her
feelings. She could not resign herself to the idea of being one amongst the many
unimportant individuals who contributed to form one whole and animated picture;
she had flattered herself with the idea that she should be quite distinguished;
she had fancied that because her dress was the most elegant she had ever worn,
it would be equally superior to those of the other visitors. Suddenly she found
her mistake. Around her, on every side, were gay groups dressed in a far more
expensive style; jewels glittered, laces and Indian shawls, velvets and brocades
rustled or waved before her eyes, and the discovery that, however superior to
her usual style were her present habiliments, numbers present surpassed her in
elegance, caused a bitter mortification to her vain mind. It was everywhere a
scene of gay bustle: animated whispers, light laughter, finery and flirtation
were on every side of her and her sisters, as they followed the stream of
visitors ascending to the reception-rooms. There were few whom they knew by
sight; none to speak to, amongst all the company; some who passed bestowed a
stare, some put up their eye-glasses, and some their lips, as they saw the four
sisters unattended by any gentleman walking together. These were ladies: men
when they looked once, looked again, for the whole family were good-looking, and
Emma's beauty could not fail to attract when once observed. But looks did not
satisfy Margaret or Penelope, who both wanted to be conspicuous characters,
envied every woman accompanied or addressed by a man, and felt extremely ill-
used by everything around them. After passing through several state-apartments,
where they followed in the wake of many others, they arrived at the entrance of
the music saloon, where they at last encountered Miss Osborne and her mother.
The latter curtsied, and then turned to some one else; the former broke off a
conversation with some young people round her, to offer her hand to Elizabeth
and her youngest sister, to whom she expressed much pleasure at the meeting; and
said a few civil words to the two others, when Miss Watson named them. Both
Elizabeth and Emma were satisfied with their reception, and would have been glad
to find quiet seats from which they might survey the company, and thus secure
all the share in the amusement that they felt they had a right to expect. But
the others were not so easily satisfied. They wanted to keep close to Miss
Osborne, hoping for the distinction of further notice, and they both declared
that they had no idea of being wedged into a corner where nobody could see them.
To avoid attracting attention by their angry whispers, their sisters were
obliged to comply, though they both felt uncomfortable at parading the rooms
without any chaperone or gentleman to escort them, and yet did not like to
attach themselves to Miss Osborne, lest she should think so large a body of
followers troublesome. Passing once more down one of the drawing-rooms, they for
the first time perceived an acquaintance. This was Tom Musgrove, who was in the
act of escorting a party of fashionable-looking ladies, and either did not, or
would not see them. To pass him unobserved, however, suited neither Pen nor
Margaret, and the latter having failed to catch his eye, the former pulled his
elbow to make him look at them. Emma turned blushing away, quite ashamed of the
free manner of her sister's address. His attention thus arrested, he could not
avoid speaking—but his bow was as short and hurried as it was possible, and he
would again have turned to his party had Penelope or Margaret allowed it. But
this they would not do. "Bless me, Tom," cried the elder sister; "how many ages
it is since we met, and yet you seem not to have a word to bestow on an old
friend." His party passed on as she spoke, and as soon as they were sufficiently
far off for him to be sure he should not be heard, he replied in a very short
abrupt tone,

"I am much obliged for your notice, Miss Penelope, and vastly happy to see you,
only just at present, as I am particularly engaged in escorting the daughters of
Sir Anthony Barnard, I must beg you will excuse my further delay; your humble
servant, Miss Margaret," and he rushed away as he finished his sentence. "How
provoking," muttered Penelope, "I declare, Tom Musgrove seems to have become a
perfect bear since I went away." "I wish our father was a baronet or a lord,"
sighed Margaret, "then he would care for us too." "Then I am sure I should not
care for him," cried Elizabeth, with much spirit; "who would value attentions
dependent on such a circumstance?" They now stood still, and seemed quite at a
loss what to do, when a voice at Emma's ear made her start, and sent all the
blood thrilling through her veins. The individual on whom her thoughts were
fixed, he whose presence and attention were most certain of making her feel at
ease—Mr. Howard, in short, was beside her. His eager enquiries as to whether she
had met Lady Osborne—whether she was pleased with what she saw, gave her
satisfaction; but his proposal that they should join his sister, who was in the
music saloon, and was looking out for them, was the greatest relief imaginable.
The awkwardness of feeling, from which she had been suffering, was at once done
away; they would belong to some one—they would have some one to address
them—some one to make them feel at home and comfortable. Mrs. Willis was good-
humoured and agreeable as ever—receiving the two strangers cordially, for the
sake of their sisters, and immediately proposing that she should act as their
chaperone at the ball in the evening. To this, not even Margaret could make an
objection, and Emma, with Mr. Howard by her side, was now really happy. The
happiness, however, was not of very long duration; scarcely had she been seated
five minutes, when she perceived Lady Osborne's eye-glass turned in their
direction—and a moment after, a young man, who stood near her, and to whom she
evidently addressed some words, approached and said,

"Howard, you are wanted—her ladyship finds your assistance and presence
indispensable—but, before you go, I pray you to bequeath to me your seat." With
evident reluctance—Emma's only consolation, he rose, and turning to her said—

"Since, I must leave you—will you allow me to present to you my friend, Sir
William Gordon—but, remember, Gordon," he added, laughing, "I shall expect my
proxy to resign in my favour, the moment I return to claim the situation."
"Don't build too much upon that," cried the young Sir William, whose gay,
animated countenance, would certainly have prepossessed Emma in his favour, had
he not turned out Mr. Howard. In spite, however, of his lively address, her eyes
followed the other gentleman; and she perceived that Lady Osborne, after some
conversation with him, sent him to fetch some young ladies from the other side
of the room; and, after a good deal of bustle and change, succeeded in locating
him in a corner close to herself. It was vain to watch longer, there seemed not
the slightest prospect of a release for him; and, fearful lest her looks should
attract notice or betray her feelings, she endeavoured to confine her attention
to what was immediately around her. The music had not yet commenced, and there
was neither opportunity nor inclination wanting on the part of her neighbour to
amuse her with conversation. "Have you been often at the castle?" enquired he,
presently; "I do not remember to have seen you here; yet I think I should have
noticed your face, had we met before." Emma informed him that she was a
comparative stranger in the neighbourhood, and had rarely been at Osborne
Castle. "Then are you sure that you are aware of the state of family politics?
Are you conversant with the position of parties in the establishment?" "On the
contrary, I am quite ignorant—possessing no knowledge, and little curiosity."
"Oh, impossible! all women are curious, more or less. You must wish to have a
peep behind the scenes." "I deny it." "But it is necessary that you should, or
you will transgress again." "Again!" said Emma, a little alarmed; "have I done
so already then?" "Certainly," replied Sir William gravely, "were you not guilty
of detaining Mr. Howard by your side, when her ladyship needed him?" "Indeed,
no! he went directly she sent for him," said she, coloring. "To send, should
have been on her part, superfluous; to go on his, impossible; he should,
instinctively, have sought her side, and placed himself in her service." "Surely
not—Mr. Howard is not the individual of highest rank, and could not, therefore,
rightly, appropriate such a situation; and he is a free agent, and has, surely,
the power of choice." "He has, no doubt, every thing to guide him. I cannot
doubt of his having taste, judgment, discernment, sense; his choice cannot be
questioned in some respects—but, if he intends to please her ladyship, he must
prove his admiration for the mature charms of forty five, not the blooming
graces—but, I am growing personal and particular, I forbear lest I should
offend!" Emma looked a little puzzled. "Howard is _my_ intimate friend," added
Sir William, "and I really wish him well; now, do not you think he had better
marry the dowager." "It is a point which no one can presume to decide for him,"
said Emma, struggling with certain painful recollections. "After all," added he,
"there is no such disparity in their years—only fifteen or thereabouts—the
jointure might be sometime in his possession." "I should really be obliged, if
you would find some other subject of conversation, Sir William," replied Emma,
decidedly, "I do not think it good taste to criticise our hostess." "Suppose we
talk of her daughter, then?" replied he, quietly, "don't you think her rather
over-dressed?" "No," said Emma, "but I think you had better let the whole family
alone." "I think I will follow your advice and choose another subject—what shall
it be?—shall we talk of yourself? Confide to me all your peculiar tastes—your
wonderful aversions—your never dying friendships. How many bosom friends have
you, Miss Watson?" "None, except my sister," said Emma, amused. "Your sister!
oh, fie! no one thinks of making a friend of a sister—that is quite a
burlesque—a friend's brother is, of course, a favorite—but one's own brothers or
sisters are quite out of the question." "Well, then, I am badly off indeed, for
I have no friend." "Indeed! I wish you would take me as one." Emma shook her
head. "I assure you, I am very modest, I should make an excellent friend; only
try me." She answered only by an incredulous look. "Here comes Lord Osborne into
the room," continued he, "looking as if he were going to be hanged. Just turn
your eyes this way, Miss Watson." "Thank you," replied Emma, without complying;
"but I will not add to Lord Osborne's modest confusion by looking at him." "His
modest confusion—what a good idea. Why he is the most impudent man in Great
Britain. What bribe do you suppose his mother had to offer him, to induce him to
come into the music saloon to-day?" "It is difficult for me to guess. Agreeable
company and excellent music no doubt." "I cannot fancy either would gratify him;
he is certainly one of the most unpolished boors in the county. I assure you his
groom is a gentleman compared to him." "For shame to say such things of your
host—you are taking away his character, and there is surely some penalty
attached to stealing in a dwelling-house." "You are quite mistaken, I am doing
just the reverse—giving him a character, out of the superfluity of my own. But
now just look at him, he is making his way up to his mama—what would you bet
that he does not tread on six ladies' toes before he crosses the room?" Emma
could not help smiling, but would not turn round, as she had no inclination to
catch the young peer's eyes. "Oh, it's not Lady Osborne, it's Howard he is
addressing. I wonder what he is saying. Howard's countenance is a tell-tale, and
it's something he does not like. Now they are both looking this way; upon my
word his lordship is coming here. Do you think he is trying to find _me_, Miss
Watson? Really such public notice confuses me—I am so very modest—am not I
blushing now?" Emma could not raise her eyes, for she was conscious that whether
Sir William's blushes were real or fanciful, her own were painfully deep, and
that he observed it. It was not however as Sir William supposed, because Lord
Osborne was coming towards her, but it was the idea that Mr. Howard pointed out
her seat with reluctance, joined to the arch tone and look of her companion that
destroyed her composure, in spite of her utmost efforts to appear calm. "You are
acquainted with Lord Osborne, then?" said he, as if drawing an inference from
something just passing. "What makes you think so?" said she. "I judge from your
being so well aware that he is not worth looking at; had you never seen him, you
would certainly have expected something superior. Shall I vacate my place in
favor of his lordship?" "As you please. It is a perfect matter of indifference
to me: don't do it on my account however." "What a perplexing answer; I don't
know how to understand it; for though well aware that a lady's private opinion
is usually the reverse of her public one, I am still left in the dark as to
which of us you really prefer." All this conversation passed in whispers during
the bustle of arrangement, and previous to the commencement of the overture; but
now the full burst of the orchestra drowned all other sounds, and made a reply
from Emma unnecessary. The silence which followed between them proved a relief
to her, and thinking that her companion's attention was engrossed by some other
object, she stole a glance towards the spot occupied by Lady Osborne's party.
There sat her ladyship in state, and close beside her stood Mr. Howard: he was
stooping to listen with a smile to some observation of his patroness, and the
painful idea crossed her mind that perhaps after all _they_ were right who
suggested the possibility of an alliance between them. She could not imagine
that he loved the dowager, but it was very possible that ambition, the desire of
independence, vanity, or some other motive might influence him; and as to her
ladyship, she must have given some ground for a conjecture so universally
whispered. A year ago, had she then known the parties, such an idea would have
been rejected as absurd; but her aunt's marriage had given a shock to her
feelings which seemed to destroy her confidence both in men and women,
especially in middle-aged widows with large jointures. It was true that if Mr.
Howard's character were such as she supposed, he would be uninfluenced by such a
consideration, but in this she might be mistaken, and where such a possibility
of mistake existed, it became her not to risk her own happiness by encouraging
the feeling of partiality for him, which she was conscious had been growing
since the commencement of their acquaintance. She made the most heroic
resolutions, determining henceforth to keep as much as possible out of his
company, and do everything in her power to restore her mind to a state of
equanimity. She resolved therefore not to look again, but studiously to avert
her eyes, and she tried hard to fix them on the orchestra, and to forget, in
listening to the music, all other considerations. She was interrupted by the
sudden address of Lord Osborne, who having at length worked his way up to her,
exclaimed,

"I have been trying to get to you this half hour, Miss Watson, but those fellows
with their music make such a confounded row, there is no knowing what one is
doing here." There was nothing in Emma's calm and collected reception of him to
encourage the notion of partiality on her part which Sir William Gordon had
entertained. It was polite, but as far removed from the flutter of a gratified
vanity as from the consciousness of a growing attachment. "I wish you would make
room for me to sit down," he said presently. "Gordon, I think you have been here
quite long enough—go and make love to Miss Carr and you will be doing a double
charity." "As how, my lord?" said Sir William without moving an inch. "By giving
her something to do, and leaving a seat for me here." "Thank you, but in good
truth I am not equal to the undertaking which your lordship has just so
successfully performed. I could not make my way across such a room, and must
pray your leave to remain in the modest seclusion of this corner, as best suited
to my humble capacities." "You abominably selfish fellow, you have the best seat
in the room, and you know it—that's all." Sir William bowed. "Then your lordship
can hardly expect me to give it up; possession you know is everything." "I can
make room for your lordship," cried Margaret who had long been straining forward
her head to try and catch his attention. She was seated behind Emma and
Elizabeth, by the side of Mrs Willis. Lord Osborne just turned his head and gave
her a momentary glance, then stooping towards Emma, enquired who was that thin
girl behind her. She informed him it was her sister. "Indeed!" cried he; "I
should never have guessed that—she is not a bit like you!" At this moment a
favorable movement was effected by Penelope, who had been seated at the extreme
end of the form. Seeing the advantage of attaching Lord Osborne to their party,
and too wise to expect to do so by superseding Emma, which seemed to be
Margaret's idea, she quietly removed, and placing herself by Mrs. Willis, left a
vacant seat. He immediately requested Elizabeth to make room for him, and in
another moment he was established by Emma's side, in the long desired position.
"What a remarkably good-natured girl," observed he in a whisper: "who is she?"
"Another sister, my lord." "Another sister! Why in the name of Heaven, how many
sisters have you in the room?" "Only three." "Only three! And how many others
have you?" Emma assured him that was all. "Well but three is too many," replied
he gravely; "it must be very awkward and disagreeable having so many—don't you
find it so?" "I never looked upon it in that light, which is fortunate, perhaps,
as I see no remedy." "That's true—you have them and cannot help it; but that
does not make it less of an evil—one would not choose three sisters." Emma did
not think it necessary to reply to this speech. "Then your father has four
daughters?" continued he, as if the result of profound calculation on his part.
"Your arithmetic is quite correct, my lord," replied she, smiling a little. "And
how many sons are there?" "Two only." "That makes six children in all—what a
family. It's a great draw-back certainly." "It does not make me unhappy at all."
"That must be because you are so very good-tempered. I am not sure that I could
bear it myself." "It is fortunate that you will not probably be called on to
support such an infliction!" "Unless I were to marry a woman who had a good many
brothers and sisters." "It will be your own fault if you do that, and with so
strong a prejudice against them, I should certainly advise you not." A long
pause ensued, during which every one seemed occupied with the singing, and when,
at the close of the first act, there was an opportunity again afforded for
conversation, Emma's attention was claimed by Miss Osborne, who made her way up
to her, and offering her arm, led her into another saloon, as she said, to enjoy
a little chat with her. "How do you find Sir William Gordon?" enquired she,
presently, turning away her face as she spoke, to examine some flowers near her.
"He seems chatty and pleasant," replied Emma; "but I have hardly seen enough to
form a serious idea of him." "Are you engaged to Mr. Howard for the first
dance?" "No, I have hardly seen him this afternoon," replied Emma, in her turn
trying to conceal her countenance. "That's unlucky; I wish he had asked you,"
observed Miss Osborne, thoughtfully. "Thank you; but I dare say he would have
done so, had he wished it; and I have no claim on him, more than any one else,"
replied Emma, rather proudly. Miss Osborne looked rather quickly at her. Her
eyes were particularly piercing, and she seemed to read Emma's thoughts in her
face. This scrutiny somewhat distressed her companion, and she was much relieved
by the approach of Lord Osborne and Sir William Gordon, who joined them, with a
request that they would return to the music saloon as the performance would soon
be beginning. "Nonsense," replied Miss Osborne, "there can be no occasion to
hurry—and I do not care about the first piece—it's so pleasant here—sit down
again, please, Miss Watson, and, Osborne, you keep quiet." Emma complied—the
room was cool and agreeable, and she was out of sight of Mr. Howard, and
therefore less annoyed than when a witness to Lady Osborne's attentions to him.
Miss Osborne had a fancy for some refreshment, and sent Sir William for a glass
of jelly, desiring him to select the one he thought best. Sir William insisted
that her brother should accompany him to bring something for Emma, with which he
complied, although his sister offered to lay any wager that he would spill it
before reaching them. "I assure you," she continued, to her companion, "he is
the most awkward creature in the world, though, I own, a very good-natured one.
I would not trust him to carry a jelly or a cream on any account, where I had
much regard for the carpet." The gentlemen soon re-appeared, each bearing
something in his hands; but Miss Osborne's prophecy happened to be amply
fulfilled: just as her brother was stooping to present to Emma a glass of
whipped cream, he stumbled over a foot-stool, and laid the whole contents in her
lap. Up jumped Miss Osborne in great dismay and tribulation, and poured forth
the most vague apologies, her brother being far too shocked to speak at all.
Emma begged her not to be concerned, it really was so entirely an accident that
there could be no blame attached to any one. Nothing could exceed the good-
humour with which she bore the injury to her dress, or her desire to restore
Lord Osborne to his former equanimity. "The dress will be totally spoilt,"
observed Miss Osborne, sorrowfully—"and such a pretty one, what a pity: what can
I do for you?" Sir William suggested that Miss Watson should immediately try
some remedy for removing the stain; perhaps Miss Osborne's own woman could
afford her means of relief—at all events, it was better to make use of any
method that could be effected as speedily as possible, since delay would
certainly increase the evil. Adopting his advice, Miss Osborne hurried her young
friend away, expressing the most sincere regrets at the accident, both as
regarded spoiling her gown, and interrupting her amusement. Emma did not attempt
to deny that she was sorry for her pretty dress; but she made the admission with
so much good humour, and with so evident a desire of excusing Lord Osborne, that
her companion was perfectly delighted with her. An accurate investigation up-
stairs, proved that the unfortunate gown was ruined almost beyond hope of
remedy; and Miss Osborne suggested that she should put on one of her own, as a
substitute, as they were so nearly of a size that it was certain to fit well.
Her whole wardrobe was placed at Emma's disposal, and she was soon re-equipped,
and ready to descend to the company again, whilst the injured dress was
submitted to the inspection of a committee of waiting women, who were to take
any possible measures for its reparation. But as Miss Osborne took this
opportunity of adjusting her toilette for the evening, so much time was expended
up-stairs, that the concert was over before they returned to the music-room, and
they found the company separated into groups, some slowly parading through the
different apartments—some enjoying the collation in the refreshment-room—whilst
some had disappeared to prepare their dresses for the ball. Sir William Gordon
joined them almost immediately, with enquiries as to the nature and extent of
the injuries inflicted, and an assurance that the culprit had retreated, being
afraid once more to face Miss Watson. Emma expressed such very simple and
sincere regret that he should be distressed, that Sir William volunteered to
carry to him the news of her entire forgiveness, and her friendly disposition.
But Miss Osborne did not seem disposed to part with him on such an errand.
Detaining Emma's arm, she engaged Sir William in a lively conversation, and it
seemed evident that her desire to ascertain the nature of Emma's feelings
towards Sir William arose from the fact that her own were rather warmly in his
favour. He was amusing, and rather clever, and Emma enjoyed listening to him.
Her attention was diverted by the approach of her sisters, and she was
immediately called on to explain the change in her dress which, of course,
attracted their eyes. This she did by merely relating that her gown had met with
an accident, and that Miss Osborne had been so kind as to lend her another. Now
that they were standing under the immediate patronage of Miss Osborne, Tom
Musgrove thought proper to approach and join them. Emma, of course, was his
object, not only on her own account, but because her arm was linked in that of
the honorable Miss Osborne. "How rejoiced I am to see you looking so well, Miss
Emma Watson?" cried he. "Winston must certainly agree remarkably well with you;
but it is a most unexpected pleasure to meet you under this noble roof; it is
the first time I have had that satisfaction." Emma calmly admitted the fact. "On
what a magnificent scale our noble hostess entertains," continued he, "there is
not such hospitality exercised in any other mansion where I visit. Does it not
remind you of the old feudal times, when fair ladies held their court, and
knights and squires vied with one another for their bright smiles." "I wish you
would go and see for my brother, Mr. Musgrove," said Miss Osborne, looking
quickly round. Tom bowed low and obsequiously. "Can you tell me where I shall
find his lordship?" enquired he. "No, indeed; you must just have the goodness to
search till you find him—from the turret to the cellar; from the library to the
stable; including the dog-kennel—it is impossible to say where he may be." "I
obey your gracious commands with the precipitation naturally your due," cried
he, bowing again, but not moving; in fact, he was too much delighted to speak to
the young lady at all, to be in any hurry to conclude the interview. "Don't put
yourself out of breath in the chace," said Sir William. "I am sure Miss Osborne
will not require that of you. Take your time, and look carefully, for I suspect
much he is artfully hidden from sight." He tried once more to secure further
orders from Miss Osborne; but she would not look round again, and he was forced
to console himself by wandering over the reception rooms, and enquiring of every
acquaintance if they could tell him where "Osborne" was, as he was sent by Miss
Osborne to find him. "How I detest that chattering magpie of a man," cried Miss
Osborne as soon as he was out of hearing, "I hope he is no friend of yours, Miss
Watson?" appealing to Emma, "I have been told that some women admire him
prodigiously." "I do not," replied Emma. "I am glad of that; he is just the sort
of person I thoroughly despise. He has not an opinion of his own, and is as
mischievous as he is idle and vain." "Upon my word, Miss Osborne," cried Sir
William, "if you express such very strong opinions, you will frighten me out of
your company. If you treat Tom Musgrove with such severity, I wonder what
character you would give to me?" "You! Sir William, I make no scruple in telling
you how vain, disagreeable, and idle you are. What else can you expect me to
say? Do not you waste your days in fox hunting and coursing; your nights in
drinking or flirting? are you not well known as the worst master, the worst
landlord, the worst magistrate, the worst member in the county? Your misdeeds
are notorious; do you not pull down schools, and destroy churches? did I not
hear of a fire on your estate where much damage was done—were you not supposed
to be deeply concerned in that?" "I pray your mercy, Miss Osborne; do not
enumerate any more of my misdeeds, or you will indeed drive me away. Such public
censure is more than I can stand." Miss Osborne now proposed that they should
adjourn to the room where the collation was spread, as she protested the anxiety
of mind she had undergone had given her a prodigious appetite, and she thought
she could eat an ice or a cream, with at least two-thirds of a _wafer_. After a
search of half an hour, Tom Musgrove was successful in discovering the owner of
the mansion, and when he learnt that Emma Watson was with his sister, he
consented to return to her. He looked rather ashamed of himself as he approached
the ladies, but still he ventured on; his first glance was at Emma's gown, and
seeing no stain upon it, and never discovering that the dress itself had been
changed, he looked much relieved, and ventured to whisper:

"I am so very sorry for my misfortune, but I assure you I never intended it."
Emma warmly assured him that she was incapable of supposing such a thing for a
moment. He exclaimed at her extreme good-nature, protesting that he should never
forget it; then looking down at her dress, observed that he did not think it was
hurt by it. Emma was diverted at his entire want of suspicion that it was
another gown she wore, and would not distress him by telling him of the change;
his solicitude that she should have what was _nice_, and his care to prevent
another catastrophe were most praiseworthy, and amused her till a summons came
from Lady Osborne to her daughter, announcing that they were waiting for her to
open the ball. To the ball-room accordingly they all proceeded, Lord Osborne
still keeping close to Emma, in such a way as to lead to the natural conclusion
amongst the spectators, that they were going to dance together. This did not
seem to be his intention, as he presently asked her who she was going to dance
with. She told him in reply that she was disengaged; and she internally fancied
that he was about to propose himself as her partner, an honor which she did not
desire. But when she found this was not the case, and that he was quite
contented with thinking somebody must soon ask her, she certainly felt a little
disappointed, and rather annoyed fancying that he wished to prevent her dancing
at all. Miss Osborne had taken pains to procure partners for her sisters,
knowing that they had but few acquaintances in the room, and Emma thought it
strange she should take no notice of her. A few words she whispered to her
brother, to which he replied by a nod; and then she too disappeared amongst a
group, and left her standing by her extraordinary and taciturn admirer. She
began to feel rather strange and uncomfortable, and to wish herself quietly in a
corner out of sight, or with Mrs. Willis, whom she could not discover; anywhere
in fact but in a conspicuous station in the ball-room, with none near her whom
she knew, except their host. At length she took courage to say that as they
would probably be in the way where they now stood, she should be glad to find
Mrs. Willis, and sit with her. Before Lord Osborne had time to reply, the lady
they were speaking of appeared accompanied by her brother. Emma's surprise was
very great when his lordship exclaimed:

"Oh, Howard, I'm monstrous glad you're come. You shall dance with Miss Emma
Watson, I've been trying to get her a partner for this great while." Mr. Howard
who had but recently escaped from the attentions required of him by Lady
Osborne, and who had been searching for Emma with this very intention, felt all
his expectation of pleasure die away at the sight of the young couple standing
together. He knew enough of his pupil to be aware of the extraordinary interest
he must take in his companion even to think of procuring her a partner, and he
could hardly suppose that she would be quite undazzled by the devotion which was
thus testified by a young nobleman. It was therefore with a grave though civil
air that he took up the request that Lord Osborne had dictated, and solicited
the honor of her hand. To refuse was out of the question, and yet she could not
bear to accept what seemed so unwillingly proffered. She thought he disliked the
proposition; he concluded she was disappointed in not having the young baron for
her partner; this feeling produced on each side a natural coldness of manner,
very unfavorable to securing an agreeable dance. She could think of nothing to
say which would serve to introduce the topic of her thoughts, though she was
longing to explain how uncomfortable she had felt, whilst standing apart with
Lord Osborne; and he seemed to be labouring under a total absence of all ideas
whatever, in the least productive of conversation. Their dance was as different
as possible from that of the happy evening when they had first stood up
together, and in spite of her philosophic resolutions to cultivate indifference
towards him, she could not get over her regret at his manner. It was over at
last, and whilst trying to find her party she encountered Miss Osborne and her
brother. The former immediately addressed her with a hope that she had enjoyed
the dance, but before she had time to reply, with the most astonishing quickness
Lord Osborne answered:

"I am sure she did not, Rosa, for both she and Howard looked as if they were
following a funeral, and scarcely spoke a word to each other." The lady and
gentleman were both rather put out of countenance at this accusation, and Miss
Osborne looking archly at Emma, said:

"Why what's the matter—have you been quarrelling, my dear friend?" Emma only
answered by blushing still more deeply; and Lord Osborne, who appeared seized
with the spirit of communicativeness just at the wrong moment, continued:

"Next time you send her a partner, Rosa, I hope he will be more to her mind,"
from which sentence Emma conjectured that it was to Miss Osborne's intervention
that she was indebted for Mr. Howard's appearance. In another moment she was
still more surprised by Lord Osborne suggesting:

"Suppose you were to dance with me, Miss Watson, and see whether I could not be
agreeable; only, Rosa, you must call a very easy dance, for I shall not be able
to get through an intricate one." Miss Osborne looked rather surprised at this
extraordinary exertion on her brother's part; Mr. Howard turned away. Just at
this moment Tom Musgrove approached again, and Lord Osborne instantly addressing
him, desired he would go and ask that good-natured Miss Watson to dance, as he
felt particularly obliged to her. It would have amused a spectator to watch his
countenance on receiving this command: he could not make up his mind to disobey;
indeed as he found the whole family so much in favor at the Castle, he intended
to take them under his patronage likewise, but he wished to _dance_ only with
Emma, and had come to seek her for that purpose. After a moment's hesitation he
turned to her, and affecting to believe she was the one intended, requested the
honor of her hand, in compliance equally with his own wishes and his noble
friend's commands. His noble friend, however, was by no means inclined to cede
his prior claim on her hand in favor of Mr. Musgrove, but plainly told him that
the Miss Watson whom he was to ask was an elder one, who had been very good-
natured when he wanted a seat. Since he could not dance with Miss Osborne, who
was likewise engaged, Tom thought the next thing must be to take the sister of
Lord Osborne's partner, and he accordingly went to find the young lady whose
good nature had made so deep an impression on that nobleman. But Penelope was
engaged, and he, desirous of obeying the orders he had received so far as he
could, but preferring Margaret to her sister, was very glad on this occasion to
ask her to dance with him. Margaret received him in a flutter of gratified
vanity and delight, which displayed itself in her looks and actions; it was such
a very unexpected compliment, that she felt certain that his affections were
once more returning to her—and that, before long, he would become her avowed
admirer. Emma's dance was little more lively than her last; Lord Osborne was so
very much occupied in keeping his feet in time, and giving the proper hand at
the proper moment, to his _vis-à-vis_, that he had no faculties to spare for
engaging in conversation. She saw Mr. Howard did not dance and more than once
she met his eyes fixed on her with a look which she could not understand. It was
not dislike or disapproval that his countenance expressed—she would rather have
described it as depicting concern and a friendly interest—as if he were gifted
with second sight, and foresaw for her some great misfortune. She tried to avoid
looking at him, and was provoked with herself for thinking so much about his
looks and manners, in spite of her repeatedly formed resolutions to the
contrary. At the conclusion of this dance, there was a general movement to the
supper-room, and Emma found herself escorted there by her late partner, rather
to her own astonishment, as she could not help feeling that her place should
have been occupied by some one of the more distinguished guests. Indeed she
fancied, for a moment, that both his mother and sister looked a little annoyed
at his selection. She was quite separated from all her own family, except
Margaret, who, with the assistance of Tom Musgrove, was placed nearly opposite
to them—and who was now, in a peculiarly happy state of spirits. In fact, Emma
saw, with some little surprise, that they were carrying on a very lively
flirtation—which, as the excellent champagne took effect on his head, became
every moment more tender on his part. CHAPTER II. On rising from supper, Miss
Osborne again passed her arm under Emma's, and led her out of the room:
complaining that she was tired and heated, she proposed adjourning to the
conservatory, where, by the light of beautiful lamps amidst the murmur of a
fountain, the delicious odour of flowers, and the chequered glimpses of a bright
wintry moon playing on the blossoms and shrubs, they sauntered in silence. At
the end of the conservatory was an alcove fitted up with sofas, and almost
concealed from observation by a row of orange trees, whose beautiful blossoms
perfumed the air. Into this recess Miss Osborne conducted her friend—and here
they had been sitting only a few minutes when they heard voices approaching.
After reconnoitring through the boughs, Miss Osborne softly whispered, "It's
only your sister and Mr. Musgrove—sit still, or we shall be plagued with his
company." Trusting that they would not loiter long, the two young ladies
remained concealed; and, in another moment, the couple approached so close as to
enable them distinctly to hear what they said. Margaret was speaking. "But you
need not envy us, I assure you, Mr. Musgrove, we, poor, weak women, who have no
defence from slander—no pity for the deep heart-wounds we are ever compelled to
bear in silence; oh! I assure you, if, as you say, we are like angels, our lot
is any thing but angelic." "But women have so much more—I mean to say they are
so much less—that is, you know, they have not any thing at all?" He did not seem
quite aware of what he did mean; and Miss Osborne's looks expressed a degree of
amusement that threatened the security of their concealment. She succeeded,
however, in stifling her laughter, and catching up his words—

Margaret began again. "So they have—you say very true—you mean, no doubt, they
have more tenderness and less thought than you—but that increases our evils. We
love and dare not shew it—and we smile whilst a dagger is placed in our
hearts—and die happy, if, in dying, we can secure the peace of some beloved
object." "What are these flowers, Miss Margaret?" said Tom, who evidently found
it difficult to sustain his part in this very pathetic conversation. "Do you not
know they are orange blossoms—bridal ornaments?" "Are they indeed?—and when do
_you_, mean to wear them?" "How can you ask—is such an event in the disposal of
woman?" "Do you wish to wear them?" "I shall not tell you—fie! how can you ask?"
"Nay, do not scold me for the deep interest I take in you." "You take an
interest, indeed!" cried Margaret, laughing affectedly; "ah! I know you better."
"If you doubt my word, you don't know me at all—tell me, is there one of all
those men in that bright assembly, for whom you would put on those mystic
blossoms?" "None, upon my word," cried she, again; "none for whom I would
consent to deck myself—none who could tempt me to such a sacrifice of life and
liberty." "Is that possible?" exclaimed he, in an incredulous tone. "True,
indeed; but why should you ask; you care not for me—you take no interest in
me—you profess much indeed—but you are a man of professions." "Cruel
assertion—you cannot believe it possible. I assure you I have the most feeling
heart in the world." "I am incredulous." "You are unkind." "What motive have I
to be otherwise to you." "My deep and earnest devotion to you, fair Margaret."
"Now you are jesting, Mr. Musgrove." "In professing my admiration—my
attachment—impossible—by this fair hand, I swear I love you beyond expression.
Will you wear the orange blossoms for me?" "Will I? ah! dearest Tom—you little
know my heart if you doubt the willingness—but may I trust you?" "I vow to you
by the bright moon above us—by all the honor of my ancestors; by every thing
that is dear to me, that you are the fairest, best, most amiable, lovely,
perfect woman of my acquaintance." "Ah! dearest Tom. I sadly fear you flatter me
with your sweet words." "Flatter you! you indulge in an idea derogatory to
yourself, to me—some women I might flatter—some I have flattered—but not
_you_—that is impossible—tell me, Margaret, do you love me." "Doubt you my love?
Can you question my feelings—would you probe my heart—ecstatic moment—bliss
beyond conception. Tom, I am yours in life and death." "You are mine and I am
yours—but hush, there are voices coming—let us return to the dancing—"

With slow, and apparently, reluctant step, Margaret was drawn away; and, the
moment they were out of hearing, Miss Osborne turned to her companion and
aroused her from the state of almost stupid astonishment, in which she was
plunged, by commencing a rapid, but whispered apology, for having become
unintentionally the confidante of her sister's happy prospects. She assured her
it was entirely from a friendly feeling towards her, that she had sat silent—for
she felt had they started out and put the lovers out of countenance by their
appearance, the declaration would have been interrupted, the whole affair
disarranged—and more mischief might have been perpetrated, than they would ever
have hoped to repair. At the same time she promised honorably to conceal the
secret thus unintentionally come to her knowledge, until it was generally
published, and she was able to present her congratulations to Miss Margaret. She
did not think it necessary to add how singularly absurd she had thought both
gentleman and lady on the occasion, or with how great a risk of choking her
effort to suppress her laughter had been. To Emma the sentences overheard had
conveyed a sensation of illimitable wonder. That Tom Musgrove should have
thought of marrying any woman, and especially Margaret, a girl with whom he had
formerly flirted till he was tired, that he should really be enough in love to
marry her without money or connexions appeared almost miraculous. She was vexed
that Miss Osborne should have overheard all the nonsense passing between them,
for she could not help fearing, from the glance of her eye, that she would
ridicule such affection and folly. Then too she felt very doubtful as to her
sister's happiness with a man whose present levity and idleness promised but ill
for the future. Certainly Margaret loved him, but hers was a love which
doubtless might have been transferred to some other object, and was but little
likely to make her seriously unhappy. All these thoughts passed through her mind
whilst slowly accompanying her companion to the ball-room, where they neither
sought nor saw the two whose conversation had so much interested her. The
evening to Emma had decidedly been one of more pain than pleasure; she was
bitterly disappointed by the conduct and manners of Mr. Howard, and this
interview, instead of increasing their acquaintance, or promoting their
friendship, seemed to have ended only in finishing and strengthening that
incomprehensible division between them which had once or twice before this
surprised or alarmed her. Regret at this circumstance combined with a feeling of
lassitude and weariness, from not being accustomed to such late hours, sufficed
to rob her movements, at first, of all spirit and grace during the next dance,
and to take away all sprightliness from her conversation. Her partner, the
lively Sir William Gordon, expressed a fear that she was ill, and proposed
sitting down, but desirous not to attract attention, she asserted herself
perfectly competent to continue the figure, and exerted herself more effectually
to dispel his ideas, lest he should succeed in guessing the origin of her want
of spirits. The effort was perfectly successful, and carefully smothering her
own feelings, she allowed her partner to talk in his usual gay and careless
style, and rewarded his conversation with smiles which encouraged him to
proceed. He ascertained that she was to remain at the Castle that night, and
informed her that he was also to be an inmate for a few days, so that he had the
satisfaction of knowing that he should have the opportunity of following up the
acquaintance so happily begun, and that her appearance was not only that of a
dazzling meteor to shine across his path with rare brilliancy for a few minutes,
and then leave him to darkness and despair for the future. "No," said Emma; "I
trust I have an orbit, though a small one, but too distant and remote a one from
yours, Sir William, for it ever to be likely that our paths should cross again."
"You don't say so, Miss Watson; surely if Miss Osborne has discovered and learnt
to appreciate your worth—your brilliancy—it is very possible for an inferior
individual like me equally to keep you in sight." "No," said Emma; "it requires
Miss Osborne's abilities for that, and I am sure you cannot pretend to vie with
her in that respect." "Beyond all question, no," cried Sir William; "I have not
such vanity or impertinence; have I not already informed you I am the most
modest creature breathing?" "Oh, yes," replied Emma smiling; "we settled that
point so long ago that it had almost escaped my memory in the interval; but now
you mention it, I do recollect that you said so before." "You are too bad, Miss
Watson," replied he laughing. "I think you wrong me—you should say too good, in
thus readily allowing your claim to superior merit." "Well, but now tell me, do
you think Miss Osborne so very clever?" "I must decline discussing that point,
being incapable of forming a judgment on the subject." "Am I to infer that you
do not like me?" enquired he doubtfully. "By no means—all I can allow you to
infer from my silence is, that Miss Osborne has been, voluntarily, so very kind
to me, that she deserves my gratitude, but that I have seen too little of her to
warrant my forming an opinion as to her talents or abilities." "Do you think her
pretty?" "Exceedingly so," replied Emma warmly; "it is a countenance that
improves on one so very much—surely you must admire her." Sir William did not
return a direct answer, and Emma suspected that he would have been more ready
with a reply, had his admiration been merely superficial. Yet it had struck her
that Miss Osborne's manner to him was uncertain and capricious, as if she did
not wish to give him encouragement, or was trying to play with his feelings,
whilst Sir William, instead of seeking to overcome this, appeared rather
desirous of amusing himself with some other objects. She began to think she was
the subject of some spell, destined to be the puppet of one or other of her
companions, who seemed continually acting towards her some part which she could
not understand. Perhaps they were all trifling with her feelings, or amusing
themselves at her expense by giving her encouragement which induced her to enter
society decidedly above what was her proper situation. She tried to shake off
this very uncomfortable feeling, but it seemed to have taken fast hold of her
mind, and her hitherto animated countenance became again clouded, her steps were
dull, and her whole air exhibited fatigue and depression. Sir William was
evidently watching her closely, and this annoyed her; presently he said again,

"Then after all, she is not so much your friend as I fancied." Totally
forgetful, at the moment, of the subject on which they had just been conversing,
Emma started at this address, and looked puzzled without replying. "I mean,"
continued he, answering her look, "that I had fancied you were particular
friends, and I wished to hear your opinion of her—of Miss Osborne." "My opinion,
I assure you, would not be worth giving, Sir William; but I will inform you
though I cannot presume to call myself her friend, I have received very great
attention from Miss Osborne, which has naturally prepossessed me in her favor;
and what I have seen of her gives me such an opinion of her, that if our
situations in life had made us equal, I dare say our acquaintance might have
grown into friendship." This assurance apparently satisfied Sir William, as he
dropped the subject of Miss Osborne, and started off on a lively dissertation on
the nature of friendship, which amused Emma as long as she had strength for the
dance or attention to bestow on him. Her weariness however had increased so much
that she at last gave up, and was glad to rest in a corner, before she had
completed the allotted two dances. Here she was discovered by Miss Osborne, who
moved to compassion by her weary looks, or influenced perhaps by some other
unacknowledged motive, was persuaded, after a faint opposition, to allow her to
retire to rest. And so ended Emma's enjoyments of the ball at Osborne Castle; it
had certainly been productive of little pleasure, and had cost her a handsome
dress; yet upon the whole she found herself regretting less the actual injury
inflicted on her than the unrealized pleasure which her imagination had
promised. She was convinced, on reflection, that this dissatisfaction must
spring from some fault in her own mind; had her feelings been under proper
regulation, she would have entered with contentment or satisfaction into the
amusement before her, instead of worrying and wearying her spirit in wishes for
what was withheld. Her partiality for Mr. Howard was the origin of all this; and
if this incipient partiality already produced her so much discontent and evil
feeling, it became her to check it at once, and vigorously, lest she should find
herself deprived of her peace of mind, before she was aware that she had gone
astray. The conjoined effects of excitement of mind, and unusual dissipation
tended naturally to produce a restless and sleepless night, and finding early
the next morning that her head would be the better for fresh air, she resolved
to try and find her way out of doors before the breakfast which would probably
be at a very late hour. The wintry sun-beams were sparkling on the hoar frost,
and glancing red upon the naked boughs of the trees around, as she quitted the
porch; the air was brisk and enlivening—the sky free from clouds—and promising
herself a pleasant ramble, she walked into the park. The path she chose lay
along the side of beautiful hanging wood of beech, and she pursued it in
profound solitude for some time, hearing no other sound than the echo of her own
footsteps on the hard ringing gravel; but after walking a considerable distance,
it struck her that there was a sound of other feet in her vicinity which seemed
to be keeping parallel with herself, but farther in the wood. Supposing it might
be some labourer or gamekeeper, she paused to listen, and allow them to pass on;
but the steps likewise ceased when she did, and that so immediately as to make
her doubt if it were not fancy altogether. Again resuming her walk, she
immediately heard the accompanying sound, and this time being convinced it was
no delusion, she tried to see through the wood, and ascertain who was thus her
silent companion, but the shrubs and underwood were too thick to allow her to
see anything. Not quite liking to be thus accompanied, she resolved to return
home, and an opening which appeared to her to lead in the direction of the
castle at that moment presenting itself, she, unhesitatingly, struck off in that
direction. The footsteps no longer met her ear; but no sooner was her attention
released from this object, than she saw with a different kind of alarm that the
rapidly gathering clouds predicted rain. Not liking the prospect of a wetting,
she became rather anxious about the direction of the path she was following—the
turns and windings of which began to perplex her, and she soon came to the
conclusion that she had quite lost her way. Certain, however, that the castle
must be within a mile of her, though not visible from where she stood, she would
have rambled on indifferent to this consideration, but for the state of the
weather, which became every moment more threatening. Hoping to discover the
turrets of the castle amidst the trees, she climbed up a small eminence, in
order to obtain a more extensive prospect, and from this spot, though no view of
Osborne Castle met her eyes, she saw in a little glen beneath a cottage,
apparently belonging to a keeper or gardener, and there she determined to apply
for directions as to the shortest way home. During the momentary pause, whilst
taking this survey of the landscape, her quick ear again caught the sound of the
footsteps which had before seemed to follow her. Well aware that there could in
reality be no cause for alarm, she overcame, as well as she could, the sort of
nervous excitement which had increased upon her feelings, and listened
attentively. Her nerves were naturally firm, though her fancy was lively, and
she, under ordinary circumstances, would have cared little for her invisible
companion, but the excitement of last night's dissipation, probably, affected
her in some degree, as it was with a sensible palpitation of her heart that she
awaited the appearance of the intruder, as she thought he must immediately be
visible between the open trees near her. The tread was light and steady,
evidently that of a gentleman, too light, she thought, for Lord Osborne, who was
not remarkable for his grace in walking; and her heart suggested the idea that
it might be Mr. Howard. She would not speak to him, if it were, that she was
resolved on; she would not allow him to be friendly only in private, whilst he
was cold and distant before witnesses; but she thought she should like to
ascertain if it was he, and like to see how he would be disposed to behave. The
steps were now so close, another moment must reveal the figure; she would not
seem to be waiting for him, and turned once more to look at the lodge below, to
which a few large heavy drops of rain made it advisable she should speedily
retreat; and whilst her head was thus averted a few rapid bounds brought to her
side Sir William Gordon. The young man would in all probability have felt but
little gratified had he known that the flush on her cheek at his sight was
entirely one of mortification and disappointment, for whatever she might try to
persuade herself, she was really quite disappointed that the intruder was not
Mr. Howard, as she had fancied. She gave him as friendly a return to his
salutation as she could force from her lips—far more than she felt from the fear
of betraying her feelings; whilst he professed most unbounded satisfaction at
his good luck in thus overtaking her. On his enquiring where she was going, she
owned she had lost her way, and was thinking of taking shelter in the cottage
before them from the rapidly encreasing rain. "Do you require shelter?" cried
he; "then let us hasten there at once; but I thought you must be a fairy or a
sprite, no mortal maiden could be walking at this hour after dancing all night
as you did. Seeing you could go without rest, I naturally concluded you would be
alike indifferent to the variations of the elements—proof to the
storm—impervious to the rain." Emma smilingly assured him she was very far from
this; and that she must now condescend to make haste to avoid a thorough
wetting. He begged to be allowed to show her the way, and as they descended the
steep side of the glen together, she felt that she ought to be thankful for his
arrival, as the path was so abrupt, and in some places almost precipitous that
his support was, if not absolutely necessary, at least very convenient, when in
a hurry, as she was at present. With all their haste, however, she was not a
little wet, by the time they stood in the porch of the lodge, and were right
glad when, on the door unclosing, in answer to their knock, they saw a bright
fire burning on the hearth. The keeper's wife, a pretty and neat-looking young
woman, very hospitably pressed them to enter, exerted herself to dry Emma's
cloak and hat, and then asking if they had breakfasted, set about preparing them
a meal with all expedition, probably pitying the uncomfortable lot of those who
were obliged by fashion to defer their morning meal so long. The keen appetite
which a walk on a winter's morning would produce was sufficient to have made
welcome even inferior fare to that which she displayed. The excellent bread and
butter, the eggs, the apples, the raspberry jam, were all tempting in
themselves, and the jug of home-brewed ale which she placed for Sir William was
declared by him to be an excellent substitute for chocolate after a late supper
and an early walk. Whilst she was preparing these things, her child, an infant
of a few months old, awoke in its cradle near the chimney corner. Perceiving
that the mother was too busy to attend to him, Emma volunteered to act the part
of nurse; and, being really fond of children, took much pleasure in the
occupation. Sir William looked at her with admiration—he had been struck with
her when dressed for the ball, and surrounded by a crowd of other elegant women,
but here the effect was doubled by the accompaniments. The small and plainly
furnished room, was brightly illumined by the blazing fire—which, in spite of
the gloom without, threw a ruddy glow over every thing beside it. Emma's simple
dress shewing her figure unencumbered by ornament or superfluous clothing, her
dark hair, now wetted by the rain carelessly pushed back from her glowing
cheeks, highly coloured by the rapid exercise which she had just undergone; her
graceful movements as she tossed and played with the infant in her arms, and the
sweet smiles which she bestowed on the really pretty child, struck him as
forming the prettiest picture he had ever seen. He drew back a little to
contemplate it, and being an excellent artist, he could not resist the
temptation of trying a sketch of her figure on a leaf in his pocket-book.
Engrossed with her charge, and not much caring for his company, she did not for
some time notice his occupation, and he had made a very satisfactory though
slight sketch of her, before she was in the least aware of it. But suddenly
turning to him, and catching his eyes fixed on her, whilst the pencil was
suspended under his fingers, the idea of what he was doing struck her at once.
The perfect simplicity of her manner when charging him with it, the freedom from
all affectation, and all appearance of gratified vanity, seemed to him no less
remarkable than her grace and beauty, and he no longer wondered at the effect
her presence had visibly exercised over both Lord Osborne and Mr. Howard, and
only felt surprise that Miss Osborne herself should not feel uneasy at placing
her brother in proximity to so captivating a girl. He was sure, had his heart
been free, she would inevitably have conquered it, but his long standing
partiality for Miss Osborne herself was not to be overthrown by the unconscious
rivalry of Emma Watson. "I was not aware you were an artist, Sir William," said
she, quietly taking the paper from his hand and looking over it, "this indicates
that you are a master of the pencil. You will allow me to keep it I hope, it can
be of no use to you." "Excuse me, the sketch I cannot part with, at least not at
present, I wish to make a drawing of the subject; as the interior of a cottage
it will be perfect; pray do not require me to give it up." As he spoke he took
the sketch from her, as if afraid she might detain it against his wishes. She
said no more in opposition, but looking out of the window, began to wonder
whether there was any prospect of the rain ceasing, so as to give them a chance
of reaching the Castle in comfort. "I assure you we shall not be missed these
two hours," said he, "there is not the remotest chance of any one being up in
the Castle before noon, after such a ball as that of last night." "I should not
like to spend many such nights," observed Emma, "one soon tires of pleasure or
rather of dissipation." "What sort of life would you have, Miss Watson, could
you decide your lot with a wish—have you made up your mind?" "Hardly, it is a
point that requires reflection, and I cannot say that I have bestowed much on
it," replied Emma. "Indeed—you don't say so—I thought all young ladies settled
that before hand—the situation, residence, fortune, even the name which the
future was to bring them, do you not arrange that entirely." "If that is the
case I am sadly behind hand," replied she smiling. "It is never too late to
mend, that must be your comfort; begin now—do you prefer the country, or are you
ambitious of a house in town?" "Oh, the latter of course; a house in town and
ten thousand a-year; you cannot imagine I should stop short if I once began
wishing, what would be the good of that?" "Bravo, I like to hear a lady speak
her opinion boldly—so you are ambitious after all; I should not have thought
that from your face, I am a great studier of countenance." "But indeed you must
blame yourself for my ambitious wishes," retorted Emma, "I am sure it was you
who put them into my head, I told you I had never thought of anything of the
kind." "Very well, I see you are a promising pupil, I shall be proud of your
progress, I have no doubt, but now to tell you the truth I should have assigned
you a quiet cot in the country, a retired home, domestic cares and joys, a round
of parochial duties, cheered by peace and content—a clever and well educated
companion, not a dashing or ambitious one. I read your feelings as I thought in
your face, and should have expected you to chose such a lot; you see how the
best physiognomist may be mistaken—you blush for me I perceive." Emma did blush
more than she wished, and she felt too much to dare to answer for a moment, then
recovering herself with an effort, she replied:

"Are you aware, Sir William, how nearly you have drawn my lot—did you know I was
the daughter of a country parson, and am situated nearly as you describe?" "No
indeed," replied he with much animation, "I am after all then a better guesser
than I took credit for, it is curious that I should have so closely described
you. You live in the midst of content and peace do you!" "I always thought
content was an internal, not an external blessing," replied Emma, again evading
his question, "one which it became our duty to cultivate for ourselves, and I
was blaming myself for enjoying so little of it at this moment, being sensible
that I feel rather discontented at the detention in this cottage." "Well, I am
certainly more amiable than you, Miss Watson, for I am as happy as possible, or
nearly so at least. But now you mention it, it occurs to me that perhaps the
rain may continue all day, in which case we should be really confined in our
present refuge. Suppose we were to consult with the hostess as to the means of
escape." "But what means can she suggest?" enquired Emma, "except walking home,
and in that case we shall certainly get wet through." "I do not see that that
catastrophe is absolutely inevitable," replied he, "we might send to the Castle
for a carriage; this seems to me the most simple remedy; do you object?" Emma
was rather startled at the idea of taking such a liberty, but she thought,
perhaps, Sir William knew the ways of the family best, and she did not raise any
objection. Mrs. Browning, the keeper's wife, when called into counsel, regretted
extremely that she had no one about whom she could send on such an errand, her
husband being out with the boy that helped; she would have gone herself but she
had a cough, and was afraid of the wet. This was an unexpected dilemma. Sir
William meditated in silence. "You have no carriage, Mrs. Browning, I suppose?"
"Bless you, no, sir—only one little tilted cart, which my husband drives to
church on Sunday." "Well and is not that at home—can we not have that? it would
do admirably if we could;" cried he, delighted at the idea. "Certainly, sir, I
think I could harness it for you, the horse is at home to-day unluckily—I will
go and see about it." "No, no, my good woman, let me go and see,—I dare say, I
can manage the affair without troubling you," said Sir William. But she assured
him her presence was necessary to show him the way, at least; but, if the young
lady would be so kind as again to hold the infant, they would soon have every
thing right. To this, of course, Emma readily agreed, and she soon, from the
thinness of the partition, heard Sir William's voice joking with their hostess
about the horse and harness. In about ten minutes he returned. "Miss Watson,"
said he, "your carriage is waiting—are you ready to undertake the expedition
under my escort?" Emma assented; and, after thanking the mother, and kissing the
child—a process which Sir William pretended likewise to imitate, she was
conducted to the door, and assisted into the neat, little chay-cart by him—and,
under his protection, commenced the journey. "What a charming little scene,"
cried he, slackening the reins to allow the horse to walk up a long hill; "I
wish you would write a pastoral poem descriptive of the little cottage and its
inhabitants, Miss Watson." "And make you the hero of it, of course," replied
Emma, "I wish I could, the subject would be decidedly novel and amusing." "Oh!
by all means, make me the hero; introduce me in any way you like, you could not
do wrong." "I should particularly celebrate your great and glorious appetite,
and the heroic way in which you attacked the bread and butter," said she. "Miss
Watson, you are growing satirical, I will not trust you; I know you will say
something cruel of me, I see it in your eyes." "Your dexterity in harnessing a
horse, that shall likewise be commemorated—we will say nothing about your
buckling the traces all wrong, or the assistance Mrs. Browning was compelled to
give you." "Are you a witch, Miss Watson?" cried he. "How came you to know of my
little blunders; upon my word, I begin to suspect you of something strange."
"Likewise your extreme partiality for little babies, and your amiable caresses
bestowed on them." "Why, the baby was not exactly the thing I should have chosen
to kiss," replied he, slyly, "but mothers and nurses _seem_ to prefer it to
having such fees paid to themselves; but, if you think I was wrong, we will go
another day and I will make a more judicious selection." "Far from it; I think
you displayed peculiar judgment and taste—I am serious in commending it. On the
whole, I think you have behaved nobly this morning, and posterity should learn
your merits through my song, if it were only in my power to write verses." "Nay,
now, I trust you are not going to have the cruelty to retract; remember, whilst
I celebrate the adventure with my pencil, I shall trust to you to do so with
your pen," cried he. She only smiled and shook her head in reply, then, after a
moment's pause, she suggested that it might, perhaps, be in his power to quicken
the pace of the horse. He assured her he was in no hurry; and he feared it would
jolt her inconveniently, if they drove very fast. She was obliged to submit, as
she saw he was determined to have his own way—but she thought the drive rather
tedious, and was quite relieved when they reached the porch. "Holla, what have
you got there?" cried a voice, which she had no difficulty in recognising. "Why,
Gordon, when did you set up that handsome equipage?" "I will tell you,
presently, Osborne—but I must first assist Miss Watson out," replied Sir
William, gravely. "Miss Watson! why, in the name of all that's wonderful, what
frolic is this? If you wanted to take a drive with Miss Watson, why did you not
take her in your curricle, Gordon?" "Because, my good fellow," replied the
baronet; "the curricle being uncovered, would have exposed us to the rain; you
had better trust to me, Miss Watson, and let me lift you out—the step is very
awkward for a lady—gently, now, there, you are safe," as he set her down within
the porch, "I hope you are none the worse for your expedition. Do you not see,
Osborne, this, our coach, is weather proof—and, therefore, convenient in such a
rainy day." "But where have you been!" "Only driving in the park—surely your
lordship cannot object to so innocent a recreation." "Why did you not ask for
one of the carriages" said he reproachfully turning to Emma, who was trying not
to laugh at his wondering look. "Then I could have accompanied you!" "We are
exceedingly obliged to you," replied Emma, "but—"

"But," interrupted Sir William, "we were quite content with each other's
society—and, as to our equipage, I defy you to produce one from your coach-
house, at all to be compared to this elegant vehicle. Miss Watson, were you ever
in one you liked better?" "Never in one, for the loan of which I felt more
obliged, I admit," replied she. "There, I knew it; only add you never had a
better charioteer, and then I shall be satisfied. I want a little commendation
myself," added Sir William. "I do not think you do—you seem so uncommonly well
satisfied with your own exploits," returned Emma, laughing. "Do come and have
something to eat," interposed Lord Osborne, "I've done mine, but my sister and
Miss Carr are in the breakfast-room." And he laid his hand on Emma's as he
spoke, and led her away. Sir William, after sending for his groom to take home
the cart, ran after his companions and joined them at the door of the breakfast-
room. Both the young ladies raised their eyes in astonishment and visible
curiosity, at their entrance together. "Been out walking, Miss Watson," cried
Miss Carr, "there must be something superlatively delightful in such a morning
as this—are you partial to rain?" "Not at all," replied Emma, "but it did not
rain when I left the castle, and I did not think it would." "Did you walk
far?—and are you not wet?" enquired Miss Osborne, rather coldly. Emma assured
her she was perfectly dry. "Where do you think we breakfasted, Miss Osborne?"
commenced Sir William, "for I beg to inform you, we, early risers, have had a
walk, a breakfast and a drive, this morning, before your finished you first
meal." "Really, I cannot pretend to guess where so eccentric a person as Sir
William Gordon takes his breakfast, or what his amusements are." "Oh, do tell
us," cried Miss Carr, "so you and Miss Watson have been visiting together, have
you; in some gipsy-camp or where?" "No, indeed, you must guess again." "Not I,"
replied Miss Carr, pushing back her chair from the breakfast table, "I have no
talents for divination. Rosa, I am going to your room to try your harp—will you
come when you are at leisure?" Miss Osborne assented. Emma, who had not sat
down, declined all breakfast, and proposed to go to her own room to remove her
walking dress—enquiring of Miss Osborne where she should find her afterwards. "I
will shew you your way," cried that young lady—then leading her into the hall,
"that flight of stairs leads to the gallery where your bed-room is. I will wait
for you here, before this fire." Emma walked slowly up-stairs, and turning her
head, she saw Sir William join Miss Osborne and address her. His reception was
any thing but gracious—the young lady seemed bitterly offended about something,
drew up her head—pouted her under lip, and gave unmistakeable signs of being out
of temper with him. Emma did not wait to see whether he succeeded in
propitiating her anger, which she suspected arose from the supposition that they
had been walking together; and, to allay which, she determined to give an
accurate account of their adventure. On descending again to the hall, she found
only her friend, the gentleman having disappeared, and with her she proceeded to
the sitting room where Miss Osborne usually spent her mornings. Here the three
girls were sufficiently merry and talkative, but Emma could not find an
opportunity of introducing the subject of her morning walk, which she could not
help fancying was scrupulously avoided by her young hostess—a circumstance which
rather annoyed her, as she particularly desired to explain the reason of her
return with Sir William. CHAPTER III. The whole day was too wet to allow
anything like exercise out of doors, and Miss Carr complained bitterly of the
stupidity and dullness of a wet morning after a ball; indeed she found it so
great an evil that she threw herself on a sofa and fell into a doze, from which
she was roused by the entrance of Lord Osborne. At sight of him she started up,
and tried to be animated and agreeable, but it was evidently thrown away upon
him, as he seated himself by Emma, who was engaged in embroidering for his
sister, and began to admire her work. Emma's manners were too quiet and reserved
to give Miss Carr any ground for supposing she was a voluntary rival, but his
were so unusually animated as to make his admiration of her indubitable, and
Miss Carr's jealousy extreme. Emma's thoughts were wandering—two wonders
continually occupied her mind, one on the subject of Margaret and Tom
Musgrove—the other more nearly connected with her own feelings and sentiments.
She was roused by Miss Osborne's enquiring of her brother if he had seen any of
their friends at the Parsonage that day. His answer was in the affirmative; he
had been walking with Howard and had a long chat with him about something of
importance, and Howard was thinking of going away for a few weeks, if he could
get any one to take his duty; he thought his sister wanted change of air, and it
was a long time since he had enjoyed a holiday. "Going away!" exclaimed Miss
Osborne, with a look of utter amazement; "this does take me entirely by
surprise. What in the world can influence him to such a freak as that! going
away, and at such a time!" "I do not see why he should not go if he likes
travelling in the cold," observed Lord Osborne coolly; "he has a right to a
holiday if he chooses." "And he has worked particularly hard of late," added
Miss Carr maliciously; "he has had double duty to perform." "He is always very
attentive to the parish," said Miss Osborne. "Yes, both to old and young—the
charitable visits that he pays to some old ladies are most exemplary," continued
Miss Carr in a sarcastic tone. "No doubt he will be rewarded for his exertions,
but I fear he will be much missed in his absence." Miss Osborne frowned and bit
her lip; Emma continued to devote an apparently steady attention to her work,
and would not speak. Lord Osborne added,

"I gave him leave to go, as far as I was concerned, but I do not know whether
her ladyship will like it. However, I think it rather hard if the poor man
cannot have a holiday now and then; he's a very good sort of fellow, that
Howard, though he was my tutor, I have a great regard for him; don't you think
so too, Miss Watson." "It is very natural that you should," replied Emma as
steadily as she could, but not very well understanding what his lordship meant.
"I asked him to dine here to-day," continued he; "he said he should like to see
you, Rosa, before he went, or something of that sort, but he did not seem
certain about dining here, or when he should come up. I almost fancy he is not
well, he is so different from usual." "Something must be the matter with him
indeed, if you notice a change, Osborne!" exclaimed his sister; "for I do not
think you in general very quick at observing faces or expressions. I must
certainly see him." "I fancy he played his cards ill last night," said Miss
Carr; "he made some blunder between hearts and diamonds I believe—I am certain
he mistook one suit for another." "You know very little of Mr. Howard, Fanny,"
replied her friend; "pray don't pretend to judge him, it's absurd." "Of course
it is," carelessly answered she; "it's not to be expected I should know anything
of a man so completely out of my sphere. I dare say he is a mighty good sort of
man, but he rather tires me when he talks." "Where is Sir William Gordon?"
enquired Miss Carr after a pause. "I wish he would come here, he amuses me with
his nonsense." "In the library painting. By the bye, Miss Watson, that's one
thing I meant to speak about," continued his lordship with eager animation. "Do
you know he has got the most capital likeness of you I ever saw; how came you to
sit to him?—and he vows he will not give it to me." "I did not sit to him,"
replied Emma, eager to clear up the mystery of her walk; "he made it without my
knowing it, this morning. We happened to meet just as it began to rain, and both
took shelter in the keeper's cottage, when he amused himself drawing, whilst I
was playing with the baby." "Oh," said Lord Osborne; "I wish you would tell him
to give it to me." "I cannot interfere with it, my lord," said she smiling. "I
begged for the sketch myself and was refused." "I vow I must see it," cried Miss
Carr: "do come, Rosa, and keep me in countenance in intruding on his studio."
Miss Osborne declined, but suggested that her brother would do as well, if she
wished for a companion, or fancied a guard was necessary. "Do come!" cried the
sprightly Fanny. "Be my guide and protector." "Quite unnecessary, Miss Carr—Sir
William neither bites nor stings," replied she coolly and without attempting to
move. "You are a—what name shall I call you bad enough! Rosa, I vow I will go
and have a _tête-à-tête_ with Sir William—a nice little quiet flirtation, if you
will not come with me." "Very well, it will serve to keep you awake—pray do,"
replied she apparently quite unmoved. Miss Carr departed, and a moment after
Miss Osborne rose and walking to the window stood there in deep contemplation
for some time. The other two were perfectly silent in the interval—at length
returning to her companions, she took her brother's arm, and saying she wanted
some conversation with him, she led him out to the conservatory to which a door
opened from the room, and they disappeared from Emma. Left alone she sank into a
profound reverie, and was engaged in trying, but not very successfully, to bring
her own thoughts into order and discipline, when a gentle knock was heard at the
door, and on her inviting the visitor to enter, Mr. Howard presented himself.
Both lady and gentleman were excessively embarrassed at this unexpected
encounter. "I expected to find Miss Osborne here," said he. "She has just left
the room," replied she, sitting down again, and then not another word was spoken
by either for some minutes. He was trying to be cold, she to be easy and
natural; apparently she had the greatest success in her efforts, for after some
deliberation, she said in as calm a voice as she could command:

"I hear you are thinking of leaving home, Mr. Howard, I hope I shall see Mrs.
Willis again before you do." "I suppose Lord Osborne told you?" replied he with
a tone and emphasis which she could not quite comprehend. "I certainly heard it
from him," answered she, rather annoyed at his abruptness, and puzzled what to
say next. Another pause of some duration followed, and then he broke it, by an
enquiry if she had enjoyed the ball last night. She answered rather eagerly, not
nearly so much as the first one she had attended. "I am surprised," replied he
in a cold voice, "I fancied the friendly kindness of Miss Osborne, and the
attentions of her brother would have secured you a pleasant evening." "I hope I
am not ungrateful for Miss Osborne's goodness, but she could not with her best
endeavours secure happiness even for a single evening; and as to the attentions
of her brother, to tell you the truth, such as they are they are not
particularly conducive to pleasure. There was far more exaltation than
excitement in being honored as his partner." "We are, perhaps, all inclined to
undervalue what is in our power," replied he very gravely. "I beg your pardon,
but I do not see what that has to do with the present case," said Emma, "it is
not in my power to think Lord Osborne an entertaining partner, or a good dancer,
and though I mean no reflection on him, I should not be sorry to think it was
the last time we shall ever stand up together." "Possibly it may be," said he
with a peculiar smile. She could not make him out at all, and resolved not to
speak again, since he seemed determined to quarrel with her. Again he broke the
silence by an observation:

"I suppose now you have seen more of Osborne Castle, Miss Emma Watson, you have
become better reconciled to it." "I like it very much," said Emma, finding she
was expected to say something, and not quite certain what would be best. "I
remember not long ago that you expressed very different sentiments," continued
he, "but circumstances are altered now, no doubt, and it is astonishing how soon
the mind becomes accustomed to such a change. We feel inclined to doubt that we
ever thought otherwise from what we do now." "Perhaps that is the reason," said
Emma, "why I am unconscious of any change in my thoughts and feelings regarding
the Castle and its inmates, except the natural feelings of being more at home
here than before." "That will probably encrease," said he significantly, "you
will be much here in future." "I do not think that," said Emma, "I have no claim
on Miss Osborne which can lead me to expect such an honor." "Those who have rank
and wealth in their hands have a heavy responsibility," exclaimed he in a sort
of reverie. She made no reply, but continued her embroidery with exemplary
perseverance, secretly entertaining a hope that some one would soon come in, to
relieve her from the embarrassment of a very uncomfortable _tête-à-tête_.
Presently looking up, when about to change the silk in her needle, she met his
eyes fixed on her with a look which seemed at once to contradict the coldness of
his tones and the gravity of his expressions. It called a deep blush into her
cheeks, to see the earnest yet sad interest with which he regarded her; and she
eagerly busied herself with her work in order to conceal her own emotion. She
wished to speak, but could think of nothing to say sufficiently unconnected with
her present feelings to make it safe to discuss. He was the first to break the
silence. "You do not agree with me, Miss Watson, I perceive; has your further
intimacy in the Castle taught you that a pre-eminent situation is one of
pleasure as well as honor; have you become convinced that happiness can be
purchased and secured more easily in an exalted circle, or that distinction and
luxury are good substitutes for liberty and ease." "If I had thought my simple
silence would have laid me open to such an imputation, Mr. Howard," replied
Emma, "I should certainly have assented to your proposition." "Forgive me for
attributing the idea to you," said he in a more animated tone "honored as I have
been with so much intercourse with you, it would be impossible for me to avoid
feeling interested in your sentiments, and desirous for your happiness." "I am
much obliged for your kind expressions, but I trust that a visit of a few days
in this family, need not give rise to any very alarming apprehensions amongst my
friends, for my peace of mind and general content. These would be hardly worth
caring for, if they were so easily thrown into disorder." "Eyes unaccustomed to
face the light, are easily dazzled," replied he significantly, "and for long
afterwards can see nothing in its true colours." She reflected for a few
moments, and then looking up said, with some warmth:

"Am I to infer from what you say, that you think my acquaintance with Miss
Osborne or even her brother likely to make me dissatisfied or unhappy; to induce
me to disregard former friends, or despise those who have before been kind to
me? Tell me plainly what you mean, Mr. Howard; it would be much easier and safer
to be at once explicit, if you really wish to act the part of a friend." She
fixed her eyes on him as she spoke, her bashfulness overcome or forgotten in her
eager anxiety for an answer—an explanation. His countenance, in his turn,
betrayed extreme embarrassment, and he evidently hesitated what to say. She
continued after a short pause, finding he gave no reply:

"I cannot help being afraid from your words, that you have some such charge to
lay against me. Tell me, did Mrs. Willis think I neglected her last night; that
I was too much engrossed with Miss Osborne. I should be extremely grieved were
this the case, for nothing could be further from my wishes; if she felt hurt at
anything, I fear I must have been wrong, and would willingly do anything in my
power to explain the circumstance." Mr. Howard's countenance betrayed that he
was feeling much; but of what nature Emma could not exactly decide. He answered
evidently with an effort,

"I assure you, you quite misunderstood me; I never intended to give you the
impression that Clara was jealous of Miss Osborne. Your mutual friendship need
not exclude you from intimacy with others—friendship is not like love—it should
not—it certainly need not be encumbered by jealousy. But, Miss Watson, there is
a feeling, a sentiment—a species of friendship, which will not bear a rival; an
affection which is covetous of the smiles bestowed on others; which can only be
satisfied by an entire return—" he paused a moment, and then added, "I beg your
pardon, I have said too much, and I cannot expect you to understand me. We are
going in a few days to some distance, and, perhaps, I may not see you again—I
wish you every happiness—may you never have reason to do otherwise than rejoice
in the friendships you contract," he stopped very abruptly, and after a
momentary hesitation hastily quitted the room. Emma was left alone to try and
comprehend, as well as she could, the meaning and object of his very desultory
conversation. There began to dawn upon her mind a new idea: he was jealous of
Lord Osborne. It was undoubtedly the fact; but her own feelings were in such a
state of confusion that she hardly comprehended whether it gave her more pain
than pleasure to think this. It was a very great pleasure to feel that he really
cared for her. Jealousy by its existence proved love, and after her doubts as to
his feelings and wishes this unexpected manifestation of his mind was at first
very welcome. Certainly his going away was unfortunate and, in her opinion, ill-
judged—it was resigning without a struggle—it was leaving the field open to his
rival—it was, for anything he knew to the contrary, losing all chance of
success, absolutely throwing away the opportunity. Did this look like a very
ardent or determined affection—she feared not—to run away without necessity
seemed rather to indicate a wish to give up the contest—perhaps he loved her
against his will, his judgment, his sense of duty; but no—then he would not have
waited for the appearance of a rival to teach him the necessity of avoiding her
presence. Perhaps he only wished to give her time to know her own wishes—and
form her own judgment of Lord Osborne, to allow him an open and undisputed
field; and when he found his fears were visionary and groundless he would
return. This she hoped to be the case. As to his lordship, she never entertained
a serious idea about him till this moment; and now, but for Mr. Howard's
superior knowledge of his disposition, she should certainly have supposed that
there was no risk of his making any one jealous by his attentions. She could not
suppose the idea of allying himself with a family plain and undistinguished like
hers could possibly have entered his head; nor could she easily imagine any one
who in person, habits, and taste would be less tempting to her. There was no
credit due to her for not liking him—the absence of all ambition to become a
baroness seemed so perfectly natural when the rank must be shared with such an
individual. Superiority of station could not weigh a moment in her estimation,
against superiority of intellect; her ambition did not prompt her to wish for
distinction and honor only possessed because they were hereditary—but for the
distinction of talent—the honor of virtue and worth: this was what had charms
for her above all the gold, the splendour, the rank which the baron could offer.
Yet seriously she never expected to have the opportunity of proving her entire
disinterestedness; the choice would never lie in her power; Lord Osborne could
not seriously contemplate such a mesalliance, nor could his mother and sister
possibly countenance it if he did. The idea carried absurdity and contradiction
with itself: he certainly looked at her a good deal; but she could not build a
substantial edifice of hope on so narrow a foundation in reality. He probably
had looked at twenty girls before in the same way; and as to any other
attentions, they were not so marked as to have raised any speculations in her
own mind. It was true Elizabeth had laughingly accused her of captivating
him—but Elizabeth was only in joke—she could not have really imagined it
possible. This idea raised a new dilemma in her mind. Suppose Mr. Howard should
have retired only to make way for the passive admiration of Lord Osborne;
suppose he was waiting till his lordship left off looking at her; and suppose he
never should do that—that his devotion should never proceed beyond a look—no
expression escape him—but the expression which his eyes might chance to convey,
what should she do, to show her indifference to his looks, and the absence of
all speculation on their meaning which she really felt. She could not tell how
to repulse him into a state of inoffensive acquiescence, or how to convince Mr.
Howard, under such circumstances, that there was nothing to fear from his
rivalry. Besides she was not to see him again for a long time. How very unkind
of him to go away and leave her merely because Lord Osborne had such a fancy for
looking at her. Mr. Howard had paid her more attention, had shown more interest
in her, had made a much deeper impression on her feelings than any one she had
ever known, and now he was voluntarily leaving her. It was
unkind—unjust—ungenerous—it was all sorts of bad things; she began to look on it
in a new light—to get almost angry with him, to think him
unreasonable—capricious—not worth caring about—for five minutes, at least, she
was quite indignant, and resolute not to interest herself any more about him.
How long this new state of feeling might have lasted, if left to itself, it was
impossible to say, she was interrupted by the entrance of Lord Osborne, who
hurried into the room with an entreaty that she would return with him to the
library. Emma rather demurred to this request; at that moment, she felt little
inclined to go any where, especially in compliance with Lord Osborne's wishes.
But on her begging to know what he wanted, he reiterated his entreaty with more
urgency, and no explanation. She, therefore, decidedly declined, he then
expressed great mortification and regret, ending with an assurance that Sir
William Gordon wanted her. She continued to refuse, quickly observing that she
was sorry to disappoint Sir William Gordon by disobeying his summons, but she
did not feel equal to such an exertion—and, therefore, if the interview was
inevitable, he had better come to her. Lord Osborne declared he would go and
tell him so. She had no idea that he was seriously intending so to do; but as
soon as he had left the room she began to put away her work that she might
escape into solitude. This and the necessary arrangements took her up some
time—she found he had entangled her silk whilst sitting by her side; and before
she had put every thing in proper order, she found her solitude again invaded by
Lord Osborne, who returned together with Sir William and Miss Carr, when all
three united in entreating her to come at once to the library. Emma still
persisted in begging for an explanation of their request; and as soon as any of
the party would attend to her sufficiently to give her an answer, she learnt
that the object they had in view was, that she should sit to Sir William, in
order to give him the opportunity of correctly finishing the sketch he had
hastily made in the morning. Emma declined; the original sketch, she declared,
had been surreptitiously taken, and must now be finished in the best way it
could without any intervention on her part. "How cruel—how unkind!" exclaimed
Miss Carr; "my dear Miss Watson, you will break Sir William's heart. I assure
you he is bent on carrying away a faithful remembrance of you." "No, no, Gordon
is to give it to me," interposed Lord Osborne, "I told him so, and I shall
certainly expect it." "I shall do no such thing, I assure you," returned Sir
William, "if I part with it at all, I shall give it to Mrs. Willis, my
particular friend and favorite, Mrs. Willis, to hang in the parlour at the
parsonage." "Finish it as you please—and hang it where you please, but excuse my
undergoing the penance of a sitting for any such object," replied Emma. "I had
not the presumption to ask it," said Sir William, "and only accompanied my good
friends here, lest they should take liberties in my name which I could not
sanction. The utmost I request is, that you should come and look at my picture."
To get rid of their importunity, she consented to go with them; and in the
library she found Miss Osborne, who had not joined the embassy, and did not look
in a particularly happy mood. Emma saw at once that all was not right there, and
regarded her friend's disturbed countenance with some anxiety. Miss Carr amused
herself with finding all manner of fault in the painting, which Sir William
persisted in denying, declaring the defects she saw arose only from the
unfinished state of the work. Emma did not attend to them, but turned to Miss
Osborne, and began to explain to her, how, when, and where, the sketch was made.
Miss Osborne listened in silence for some time, but looked relieved, and then
begged her to oblige Sir William by consenting. She was much surprised, but the
grave and earnest way in which the request was made, induced her, after a
momentary hesitation to comply. Miss Osborne engaged for her, that she should
not be detained more than an hour, a stipulation which was the pleasantest part
of the arrangement, as both Lord Osborne and Miss Carr stationed themselves
behind Sir William, one chattering about every stroke he drew, and commenting on
her figure as if she had been an inanimate object—the other staring in his
unmerciful way at her face, delighted to be furnished with so excellent an
opportunity, and so good an excuse. "Be sure and make her complexion dark
enough, Sir William," cried Miss Carr, "Miss Watson is so very dark—quite a
brunette; I think you have made the hand a little too small, it strikes me she
has not quite such slender hands—and the hair—surely, you have indulged in a
little imagination there—that luxuriant braid—our eyes must see differently if
you think that natural and like her own." "I have no doubt in the world that our
eyes do see very differently, Miss Carr," replied Sir William, "I have always
observed it to be the case where feminine beauty is concerned." "There is not a
bit too much hair," interposed Lord Osborne, "but she does not wear it in that
tumble-down fashion—she is always particularly neat and tidy about the head. I
like to see a small head and pretty ear—why don't you show her ear; it's a mark
of blood to see a small ear—all ladies should have small ears." "So they should
all have pretty hands," replied Fanny Carr, "but, my dear Lord, they cannot
always get them." As she spoke, she laid her own fairy-like fingers on his coat
sleeve. Lord Osborne moved his arm and allowed the little hand to drop
unregarded. The fair Fanny thought him a great brute for the same. "My good
people," cried Sir William, "my very dear friends, I really must trouble you to
move a little farther off. I think I shall send you out of the room, Miss Carr,
be so good as to take Lord Osborne into the conservatory and select a bouquet
for my refreshment. I cannot stand all your critical remarks at my back." "Come,
my lord," cried the young lady, "come, do as you are bid." "Not I," said he. "I
shall not make you a copy if you do not," interposed Sir William, "nor ever let
you see the original again." "Well," said his lordship, moving reluctantly away,
"I'll go on those conditions." The couple left the room; Miss Osborne remained
in silence. "I have no objection to Miss Osborne remaining," continued he in a
saucy tone, "if she is determined to patronise a poor artist with her presence."
"I am waiting for Miss Watson's sake, Sir William," returned the lady addressed,
"I cannot for a moment imagine that my presence can make any difference to you."
Emma thought her friend looked remarkably unamiable as she spoke, and wondered
what was the matter. "Have you seen Mr. Howard," enquired Rosa in a low voice.
Sir William looked up quickly, in time to catch the deep blush with which Emma's
cheek was tinged, as she answered in the affirmative. "How did you think him—my
brother said he seemed unwell—what did he appear to you?" "Very odd," replied
Emma, scarcely knowing, however, what she said. Miss Osborne mused again.
"Something must be the matter," said she at length rather earnestly. Emma could
only answer that she did not know, and wished to drop the subject. She turned to
Sir William,

"I hope you are not going to try my patience much longer. I only promised for
half an hour you know." "Very true, but half an hour of that kind is of an
elastic sort, extending from one hour to three at least, as I am sure you must
have experienced when obliged to wait for a friend." "Possibly," said Emma, "but
ask yourself in that case what you would do—vote it a great bore, and run away."
"An impatient, frail mortal like myself might do so, but you are too near
perfection to exhibit any such weak unkindness." "Your flattery shall not bribe
me to remain. Miss Osborne, may I not go? it was at your request I stayed—pray
release me from the spell." "Sabrina, fair,          Listen where thou art
sitting—"

murmured Sir William in an under tone, without looking up. "We will go
together," said Miss Osborne. "Fair ladies, will you not first condescend to
cast an eye on the     production of my humble pencil. Have you no curiosity,
Miss     Watson—no sympathy, Miss Osborne? do give me your opinion." "My opinion
would, you know, be totally useless," said Emma,     turning round from the door
which she had just reached; she     stopped in her speech from catching a glance
of Sir William's     directed towards Miss Osborne, which seemed to say her own
was not     exactly the opinion he most desired. She left the room without
another word, and her exit was followed by a silence of some     moments' space
between the two who remained. Sir William broke it first. "Are you absolutely
determined against exhibiting any interest in     my proceedings—against giving
me any encouragement in my efforts?" Miss Osborne colored deeply, then walking
up to the easel said, as     she affected to be examining the drawing,

"Sir William, you have no doubt an accurate eye for likenesses,     but I doubt
from the expression you give, whether you possess     equal penetration with
regard to characters." "Give me an instance of my failure," cried he, delighted
to have     induced her to speak at all, "explain your critique, Miss
Osborne." "No," replied she, "I leave the application of the moral to
you—you expect to produce a great effect, but the opposition jars     on the
senses, and produces harshness, not softness, in     consequence." He fixed his
eyes on her with a look of deep penetration, as if     trying to read her
thoughts in her countenance. She continued     calmly to contemplate the
painting, as if quite engrossed by that     object. "Are you referring entirely
to this picture," enquired he, "or to     some other design of mine?" She
colored still more deeply, and answered that he best knew if     her censure was
applicable or not. "I own I suspect you of speaking metaphorically, Miss
Osborne." She was silent. "But I think you wrong me," he continued, "do you
suppose I should     dare flatter myself that you would take any interest in my
proceedings, that you would condescend to feel any concern about     where I
went, with whom I associated—what I was doing. Should you     not condemn it as
unpardonable impertinence if I presumed thus     far." "Very likely I might, Sir
William, but I have an idea that it     would not be the first time you had been
guilty of impertinence,     or expected forgiveness when you were unpardonable."
He smiled. "I will be very candid, Miss Osborne," said he, "and if I sin in
doing so, remember your own accusations are alone to blame for it. I own your
caprice and the variations in your conduct towards me,     have for a moment
made me seek the comfort of contrast in Emma     Watson—but it was your own
fault—you knew I loved you, and you     wished to torment me." "Sir William,
this appears to me a most extraordinary style of     address—you have never, to
my knowledge, uttered a word indicative     of the love you now allude to as a
well known feeling. However,     let that pass—the love you say has done the
same—why then mention     it now?" "The love has not, and cannot pass, Rosa—it
is of too old and     stubborn a nature, has been nursed with too much care in
its     infancy to be easily extinguished now. You have been unkind and
variable as the wind—you have refused to speak to me—sometimes to     look at
me—you have said the most bitter things you could     devise—you have been
unjust in every possible way—now be candid     and kind for once. Tell me how
you really regard me!" "As the most extraordinary of mortals, Sir William. Your
manner of     address may possibly have the charm of novelty—I have little
experience in that way, and cannot therefore tell; but I should     suppose
there were few men who preface a declaration of affection     with violent
abuse." He saw that her gaiety was affected—that she really trembled, and
had some trouble in commanding her countenance: he proceeded. "What else remains
to me; the devotion, the silent adoration of a     twelvemonth have been of no
avail—you have persisted in slighting     me—now I will speak out; I love you,
Rosa—you know it—give me an     answer at once—reject or accept—but trifle with
me no more—or I     will never see your face again!" She tried to speak, but
quite overcome, she burst into tears, and     seemed on the point of quitting
the room, but he resolutely     detained her. His arm was round her waist, his
hand clasping hers,     and as he whispered in her ear—"Rosa, you _do_ love
me"—she did     not deny it. CHAPTER IV. Had Emma Watson known precisely what
had passed between Mr. Howard     and Lord Osborne, on the morning preceding her
last interview with     the former, a great deal of suspense, anxiety and doubt
would have     been spared to her. The young lord, in fact, had fallen deeply in
love with her, and     had chosen to confide his affection to his former tutor
in these     terms. "I say, Howard; what a remarkably nice girl Emma Watson
is—and so     pretty." "Undoubtedly, my lord," was the reply, given rather
reluctantly,     and with evident embarrassment. "I don't know that I ever liked
any girl half so well," continued     the young lover; "don't you think she
would make a famous wife?" Another reluctant assent was Mr. Howard's reply. "Do
you know I mean to marry her?" this was a great effort; and     having made this
declaration, he drew a long breath. "You mean, my lord, to propose to her? or
have you done so     already?" enquired Howard, in as steady a voice as he could
command. "Oh not yet; that's the worst part of it—confound it, I wish I
could get out of that. I say, Howard, you could not do it for me,     could you?
would not that do as well?" "I fear not," replied he, gravely; "I am afraid I
could not trust     myself; I might make some blunder which would ruin the suit,
and     the blame of miscarriage would fall on me." "Well, I suppose I must do
my best some day—she's so monstrous     good-natured, that I am not so much
afraid of her as of many     women; but I would bet you a hundred to one, I
shall make some     unpardonable blunder." "But, my dear lord, have you
considered what the consequences will     be if you take this step." "The
consequences, yes—that I shall have to marry her, of course." "And do you
imagine such a marriage will be at all agreeable to     your mother and sister?
Will not Lady Osborne be shocked at your     forming such an alliance?" "Perhaps
she may—I dare say she will—but then you see, Howard,     that does not signify
in the least, because, whenever I marry, she     will leave the Castle and go to
the old Dower House, so her not     liking my wife will not signify in the
smallest degree." "You treat the idea of displeasing her very lightly, my lord."
"Well, but what would you have me do? I don't marry to please her     only; and
it cannot matter to her what my wife was before; for     when she is my wife,
she will be Lady Osborne, had she been even a     cook-maid before. It's much
more consequence to me to have a woman     I like, than one whose pedigree is as
long as my arm, if she is     disagreeable. As to Rosa, she likes Emma, and I
dare say she would     not mind it at all; but at all events, she can marry
somebody, and     be happy her own way, if she will only let me be happy mine."
The animation of Lord Osborne's love had quite made him eloquent,     and Howard
listened to him with surprise. He saw he was bent on     the step proposed; one
doubt, however, remained—would he be     accepted? He suggested this to his
lordship. "Why now that's just a question I cannot answer myself," replied
he; "if I only knew that I should have no anxiety at all. But I     think she is
so very good-natured she will very likely accept me. Don't you?" "As to her
good-nature, my lord, I can answer without hesitation,     but as to her
accepting you, that must depend on other things—on     her opinion of yourself
perhaps in some degree. If she loves you,     I dare say she will not refuse
you." "Only think, Howard," cried he with enthusiasm, "how pleasant it     would
be to be loved by her—to have her for one's wife—to say,     'Emma come and ride
with me'—'Emma I want you to walk,' and she     doing it immediately; always at
hand to chat when one wanted, and     never cross or tired, or playing whist all
the evening." Mr. Howard smiled faintly at his companion's idea of domestic
felicity. "She shall have such a beautiful house," he continued; "and she
shall go to court if she likes—all women like that—how well she     will look in
my mother's diamonds—she must let her have them, I     declare. I wish I had
made the offer and it was all settled     now—don't you?" Mr. Howard could not
conscientiously say that he did. "That's the worst part of it, and you say you
will not help me. Do     you think it would do to send Tom Musgrove to make the
proposals? Perhaps she might not dislike that—Tom has a very winning way with
the girls." "I do not think it would do at all," replied Mr. Howard.
"Independent of her possibly considering such a reference to a     third person
disagreeable, I know, that is I think, that she has a     particular dislike to
Mr. Musgrove, which would make but an     unfavorable commencement for your
suit." "Indeed!—that's unlucky; I am sure I do not know what to do then,
there seems no alternative but addressing her myself, and that     certainly
needs a great deal of courage; I had much rather leap     that ditch on Clapham
Common—would not you—it's desperate work. Suppose she should refuse me! a pretty
confounded scrape I should     be in then—what should I do Howard, then?" "Learn
to bear it like a man, my dear lord!" "That's easy talking. I say, don't you
think a man must feel     preciously uncomfortable and foolish when a girl has
refused him? If I were to write, it would not be so bad quite." His companion
gave a quiet assent to this proposition. "What should I say? that's the thing; I
never know what words to     use: I say, I am in a complete dilemma, and must
take some time to     think about it and make up my mind. I want you to promise
to be my     friend, and faithfully keep my counsel." He gave the required
promise, and then ventured to ask if his     lordship had in his own opinion any
ground, from Miss Watson's     conduct and manners, to expect a favorable result
to his     proposals. Lord Osborne flattered himself that he had; she was
always very kind and cordial, smiled most sweetly, and gave him     all the
encouragement he could expect. "Though you know after all, Howard," he added in
conclusion, "she     may still refuse me." Mr. Howard did know this, and this
knowledge was in fact his chief     comfort under the infliction of such a
discussion. If he had previously entertained any doubt as to the state of his
own feelings, this conversation must have enlightened him. Once or     twice on
previous occasions he had been seized with a temporary     jealousy of Lord
Osborne's place in her estimation, but from this     moment the fit came
strongly on him. He was one of those individuals who never feel any confidence
in     their own merit, who estimate every one in some respect above
themselves, and are continually mistrusting the influence which     they really
possess over their friends. Had he been properly aware     of his own worth, his
knowledge of Emma Watson's character would     effectually have preserved her
from the imputation he now mentally     cast on her, of preferring the young
lord to himself. Had     phrenology then been in fashion, it is possible that
the origin of     this weakness would have been discovered in the absence of the
bump of self-esteem; but this not being the case, and in     consequence, his
head never having been phrenologically examined,     I cannot answer for more
than the entire absence of the quality,     and Mr. Howard cannot be brought
forward in evidence of any     phrenological theory whatever. He felt now that
he must withdraw his attentions and give up his     dearest plans, to allow a
fair field to Lord Osborne's     attempts—though, in doing so, he might lose her
entirely. He had,     for a moment, entertained the idea of explaining his
wishes to his     rival and asserting an equal right to compete for her hand.
But he     could not bring himself to confess his own attachment to a young
man like his pupil; he could not depend on the secret being     preserved, and
he shrunk from profaning his love by making it the     possible joke of Tom
Musgrove and his associates. No, he would     withdraw from the competition—he
would not be the means of     depriving her of wealth and rank—if she valued
them—and if not—if,     as was possible, his lordship should be refused, then,
with hope     and joy, he would return to try his fate in the same adventure.
For this end it was, in part, that he determined to obtain a     holiday; he had
long begun to feel that he ought to go for another     reason, but Emma Watson's
attractions had kept him stationary. The     other reason arose from the
sentiments which the dowager Lady     Osborne began to make very apparent to
him. His modesty had long     resisted the idea and denied the fact, when, as
often happened, he     was charged by young men of his acquaintance with designs
upon the     well-jointured widow. But even his modest estimation of himself was
forced to yield     before the conviction which her looks, her manners, and her
language conveyed to his mind. Most unwelcome this conviction certainly was, as
it could end, he     thought, in nothing but a positive rupture between his
family and     the Osbornes; and unless he had the power of obtaining another
home, it would certainly render them exceedingly uncomfortable. He     knew the
dowager to be of a vindictive disposition when she     considered herself
injured or insulted, and both to his own family     and that of his beloved
Emma, he foresaw nothing but evil from the     prospect before then. If Emma
should accept the son, the rage of     his mother would certainly be intense,
and if she refused him and     accepted Mr. Howard instead, there was but little
probability she     would be better pleased. All hopes of further advancement
from the     family patronage would be at an end, and he was not sure that upon
the small income his present living afforded him, it would be     prudent to
marry, as his sister and her little boy were quite     dependent on himself.
There were Charles' maintenance at a public     school, and his subsequent
expenses at the university to be looked     forward to and provided for; he had
engaged to do this,     voluntarily engaged himself, and now that he came
seriously to     reflect on his position and ties, on the expenses of a married
man, and the probabilities of any better future provision, he     began to
wonder what infatuation had before closed his eyes, and     hurried him on
against his better judgment, to an affection which     threatened so much of
care and difficulty. Yet it was hard, very     hard to give up the charming
hopes with which he had flattered his     fancy; he did not feel equal to such a
sacrifice; he did not feel     positively called to it. For the present he would
quit her, but he     would make no desperate resolves for the future: when he
came     nearer that part of his path, he should be better able to tell in
which direction his duty would guide him. When he unexpectedly found himself in
Emma's presence, and alone     with her, his contending feelings had almost
deprived him of     self-control, and he had been scarcely conscious what he
said or     did, though on quitting her, he carried away a decided conviction
that he had behaved extremely ill, and no doubt she was disgusted     with him.
With this pleasing notion he returned to his house, and     his sister soon saw
that there was something the matter, by the     absence of his mind, and the air
of depression which hung over     him. He told her he wanted to leave home for a
time, that he thought it     would do them both good, that he had been talking
to Lord Osborne     about it, that he must apply to her ladyship, and that he
expected     her to refuse. Mrs. Willis was a good deal puzzled by all this,
but could obtain from him no more satisfactory answer. Playfully     she accused
him of having been refused by some lady, which of     course he denied; then of
having affronted some one by refusing     her, which met with a similar answer.
Her invention and     imagination seemed to go no farther, and she was obliged
to be     quiet and watchful. CHAPTER V.

Whilst Lord Osborne was thus hopefully planning, and Mr. Howard     despondingly
meditating, a very different termination to Emma's     visit was impending over
her. She was roused from a late and heavy     slumber, natural after the
sleeplessness of the preceding night,     by the receipt of a note from Winston,
sent over by a special     messenger. Its contents were as follows:—

"Dear Emma,

"I am sadly grieved to have to tell you such bad       news, but our father has
been taken very ill, he had a       seizure last night, up to which time he
seemed quite       well, and has not recovered his senses since: nor does
the doctor lead us to hope that he will. I need not       say come home, for I
am sure that will be your first       wish; I dare say they can send you, as our
man is gone       down to the village to fetch something for my father's
use, and I cannot, therefore, send the pony-chaise. "Yours, etc.,

"E. WATSON." Starting up in the greatest dismay, Emma instantly sent an
imploring message to Miss Osborne to request an interview with her, and in the
meantime hurried over her dressing and other necessary preparations with the
greatest possible despatch. Miss Osborne did not make her wait long, showed the
most friendly sympathy in her distress, instantly ordered a carriage to take her
home, and insisted on her allowing her own maid to arrange Emma's things, whilst
she attempted to take some breakfast. To satisfy her Emma made an effort to eat,
but could scarcely swallow a cup of coffee; and as the coachman did not keep her
long waiting, in less than an hour from her receiving Elizabeth's note, she was
on her way home. Wrapped up in fearful anticipations of what would meet her
there, she had been almost unconscious of what was passing before her eyes; she
had an impression that Miss Osborne had been very kind, that just at last her
brother had been there also, that he had squeezed her hand at parting, with much
warmth, and had said something which she did not understand about wishing to
help her; she thought of it for a moment only, and then her mind again reverted
to her father's situation, and her sister's distress. The rapidity with which
the journey was now performed, was a most important comfort, very different from
the creeping jog-trot of their old horse, and she felt quite thankful that
Elizabeth had spared her such torture as would have been caused by the delay
their own chaise would have occasioned. Before Elizabeth was expecting her she
was at home, and the door proving to be open, and nobody at hand to receive her,
she was obliged to have her few things set down in the passage by the footman,
and then dismissed the carriage, before she was able to see any one who could
acquaint her with her father's state. Softly she looked into the parlour, the
shutters were open, but the room otherwise bore no symptoms of having been
disturbed since last night, the candles were still on the table, the supper tray
unremoved, and the chairs all in disorder. She then proceeded up-stairs, and was
just on the point of opening the bed-room door, when Elizabeth came out of it.
One glance at her face told her that there was no better news in store for her.
Mr. Watson was fast sinking—he lay apparently in a deep slumber, and there
seemed no probability of his ever recovering sufficiently to recognise those
around him, or to speak again. Elizabeth had been watching beside him,
alternately, with Penelope through the night; the village apothecary had said
there was now no more to do; all the remedies his skill could suggest had proved
unavailing, and they must patiently wait the result. Margaret had gone to bed in
hysterics, and required Nanny to sit up with her, so that it was a great
blessing Penelope had been at home, as she had a head and nerves which were
always in good order, and knew as much of medical treatment as the doctor. At
this moment Penelope joined them; she left the patient unchanged; the apothecary
and the maid were with him, and hearing Emma's voice, she had come out for a
moment to meet her. "A sad ending to our Osborne Castle festivities, Emma," said
she, as she shook her hand; "who would have thought it, when we set out?
Elizabeth, don't you think we ought to have better advice? I am certain that man
there does not know in the least what he is about; there must be a better doctor
at some of the towns round here—Bradford, or somewhere—could not we send for
one?" Elizabeth could not tell; they had never had occasion to send for a
physician; and she did not know where one could be found. Emma enquired if
notice of their father's danger had been despatched to their brothers; it
appeared neither of them had thought of this; but it must be done immediately.
They were about twenty miles from Croydon; and by sending a letter by the mail-
coach, which passed through Bradford, they knew Robert would hear the same
evening, and might be at Winston easily within twenty-four hours. This much they
settled on, and a note was written, and despatched by a trusty messenger, who
was to catch the coach at the inn at Bradford, and then try and bring back a
physician with him. Mr. —— seemed much relieved when he learnt the project of
calling in farther advice, and thus shifting the weight of responsibility from
his own shoulders. He thought it probable that the patient might linger many
hours, possibly two or three days; and with a promise to return in a few hours,
he now took his leave for the present. It is needless to attempt to describe all
the feelings which oppressed the sisters as they sat watching the sick-
bed—perhaps the death-bed of their only parent. Hours stole away, bringing no
change, and no alleviation of their fears. Margaret did not join the watch; her
sensibility, as she designated it, bringing on violent hysterics, which made
attention and nursing necessary for her. Emma tried to soothe her, in vain;
Penelope was sarcastic and bitter; Elizabeth declared she had no time to attend
to her vagaries, and that she would be soon as well as any of them, if she was
not meddled with. About two o'clock they were roused by the sound of carriage
wheels at the door, and Elizabeth stealing into the passage, where a window
looked on the entrance, came back with the information that it was a post-
chariot, from which a gentleman, dressed like a physician, had alighted, and
that there was somebody else in the carriage, but she could not tell who it was.
In another moment, a card was handed into the room, with the name of Dr. Denham
on it, a name which they knew belonged to a celebrated physician, residing at
many miles distance. Much surprised, the girls hesitated a moment as to the
meaning of this, but, of course, decided that the two eldest should descend to
the parlour to receive him and his explanation immediately. After a consultation
of about ten minutes, Emma hearing their voices and steps on the stairs, quitted
the room of the invalid that she might not be in the way, and when they were
safely shut in there, she ran down stairs to refresh herself by a moment's
breathing the fresh air. Great was her surprise on reaching the entrance
passage, to see Lord Osborne standing there, and evidently looking about for
somebody. Her light footstep instantly caught his ear, and he turned to meet her
with eagerness. "Ha! Miss Watson," cried he, "I hoped to see you here; how's
your father, hey—not very bad. I hope." "Indeed he is," replied Emma, with tears
in her eyes. "Indeed, I am sorry—upon my honour—I'm grieved to hear that,"
looking quite compassionately at her. "Poor old gentleman—what a pity—I dare say
he is a monstrous good fellow—but don't fret—I shall be quite unhappy if I think
you are fretting." Emma scarcely attended to what he was saying. "How came you
here, Lord Osborne?" exclaimed she. "Had you anything to do with Dr. Denham?"
"I'll tell you how it was," replied he, taking hold of her hand, and drawing her
towards the parlour door, "only don't stand here in the cold, that's so
uncomfortable. There now, sit down there, and let me sit down beside you—and
I'll tell you. We know Dr. Denham very well, he's a great friend of my sister's,
and she's a great favorite of his—so when she heard your father was ill, she
wrote him a note, and sent me with it, to ask him as a great favour to visit Mr.
Watson, for her sake—you know—and I fetched him in the carriage, so it's only
the drive, and he's to take no fee, you see—he just comes from friendship to
Rosa, that's all." "I am sure we are exceedingly obliged to you all," said Emma,
colouring from a variety of feelings; "it was very kind of Miss Osborne to think
of it, and of you to take so much trouble." "Do you know it gave me a great deal
of pleasure—a very great deal; I don't know when ever I was happier than just
while I was thinking of obliging you—I did not mind the trouble in the least."
His eyes were fixed on Emma with a far more eloquent expression than was at all
usual with them, and he really seemed to think as he spoke, and to feel
particularly happy. To what extremes of eloquence his new-found felicity might
have led him there is now no means of knowing; he was interrupted before he had
committed himself by any very pointed declaration, by the sound of the
physician's return, which startled Emma into a sudden recollection that to be
found by him, sitting _tête-à-tête_ and side by side on the sofa with the young
nobleman, might perhaps not unreasonably surprise him. She therefore told him
she should be wanted in the sick room, and quietly withdrew; when he, his
pleasant reveries broken off thus suddenly, felt himself unequal to meeting any
one else with composure, and likewise quitted the room for a seat in the
carriage. As Emma resumed her seat at her father's bedside, she could not for a
moment banish the idea which had suddenly entered her mind, that perhaps after
all Mr. Howard's jealousy was not ill-founded, and that Lord Osborne did
entertain a more than ordinary partiality towards herself. The notion was
accompanied with no feeling of self-exaltation; she was positively ashamed that
it had intruded itself at such a time, and she felt that had even the moment
been more appropriate, the supposition would have given her no pleasure at all.
She did not want him to like her for his own sake, and she was annoyed by it for
the sake of Mr. Howard's attachment. But this was not the time when such
reflections could or ought to be indulged; it was her business to think of her
father, not of herself, and she roused herself to shake them off. As soon as Dr.
Denham had taken his leave, her sisters returned to the sick room to tell her
what he had said. He had given them no encouragement; had said there was nothing
further to be done, that it was true that while there was breath there was hope,
but that Mr. Watson's advanced age and broken health made a recovery most
unlikely, and even a temporary return of his intellects extremely improbable.
The next morning brought no alteration in the situation of the patient, but it
brought Robert Watson to the house. He came, cool and self-possessed as ever,
taken up entirely with facts, not feelings, and looking decidedly as if his mind
at least never quitted his office, but was still engrossed with the business
there transacting. "Deeds not words," was his motto, but the deeds he delighted
in would have been uninteresting to nine-tenths of the world, and seemed rather
intended to mystify than benefit mankind. Emma felt she could not love Robert;
she shrank from him, and it needed all her self-command and strong sense of
propriety to avoid showing how repulsive she found him. The excessive egotism of
his conversation and habits seemed to yield to nothing; no feeling, no softness
was evinced by his conduct. There was scarcely an emotion betrayed on seeing his
father, and what little was discernible whilst in his sick room, had all
vanished before he reached the parlour door. "Well, I must say this is a most
unfortunate thing," said he sitting down in his father's vacant chair and
stretching out his feet to the fender; "a most unfortunate thing for me indeed:
one might have calculated my father would have lived ten years more—he's not
such an old man—ten years at least I had reckoned on, and you see how I am taken
in. Heaven knows what is to become of you girls—there will not be more than a
thousand pounds to divide between you: and it's so unlucky to happen just now,
for of course you must come home to Croydon." "That would be very unlucky
indeed, at any time," cried Penelope; "but I hope not quite inevitable. _I_
shall not live at Croydon, I promise you." "So much the better, if you have any
other plan; three on one's hands are quite enough. There must have been some
great mismanagement, or some of you would certainly have married;" and Robert
Watson, in a fit of vexation at his sisters' celibacy, stirred the fire into a
vehement blaze. "Well to relieve your mind," replied Pen in a sarcastic tone,
"in return for the extraordinary fraternal solicitude you evince, I will inform
you I am engaged to be married, and expect to be a wife in about a month." "Are
you indeed, my dear sister I congratulate you. What settlements are you to have?
If the papers pass through our office I promise you I will pay every attention
to see it advantageously arranged for you." "Your liberality, my dear Robert, is
most exemplary, and far beyond what I had ventured to expect of you. But I shall
not encroach so far, I assure you. The marriage settlements are preparing at
Chichester, and I do not anticipate that it will be even necessary for me to
have recourse to the hospitality of yourself and your amiable lady." She spoke
with a strong and bitter emphasis, which Robert could not possibly
misunderstand, but which he prudently resolved not to notice. "It is a very
delicate matter to talk of," whispered Margaret, who had now made her
appearance, "one from which a young woman of sensibility naturally shrinks; but
I will so far overcome my blushing bashfulness, as to inform you, Robert, that I
too am engaged to be married, and that, therefore, delighted as I should be to
reside with my dear Jane, I still hope before long to be able to receive her in
my own house, and, as Mrs. Tom Musgrove, to return the kindness showed to
Margaret Watson." "_What!_" said Robert, staring at her with undisguised
amazement, "are you mad, Margaret." "Indeed, I hope not," replied she,
simpering; "I am engaged to my dear Tom Musgrove, that's all I mean; and no
doubt we shall be married in time." Her brother still looked doubtfully at her,
but after a moment's consideration, replied—

"Well, Margaret, if that's the case, you deserve more credit than I had ever
thought possible, for I would not have given much for your chance with Tom—but,
since you say he is engaged to you, I am heartily glad to hear it. Have you any
witnesses? or was the contract in writing?" "No, it was in the conservatory at
Osborne Castle, and as to witnesses, oh, dear Robert, you don't suppose ladies
and gentlemen chose to have such tender scenes pass before witnesses," cried
Margaret, trying to look very young and sentimental. "I am sure it would be a
deuced deal better if they did," said he, sharply; "there would be much less
trouble to their friends; and they would stand a much fairer chance of having
the contract fulfilled. However, since it is so, I hope he'll keep his word, for
the sake of yourself and your friends. As times go, it's not a bad match." "A
bad match—I should think not," cried Margaret, disdainfully tossing her head. "I
only wish all my sisters may make half as good a one, that's all. Tom Musgrove
is a man every woman may well envy me." "I doubt if his income was ever a clear
thousand a year, Margaret," replied Robert, as if that were the point on which,
in his mind, the advisability of the match entirely rested. "But if he's not in
debt, he may do very well. I wish Elizabeth and Emma had equal good luck, to
prevent their becoming a burden on their friends." A burden on their friends!
how those words rang in Emma's ears, and grated on all the feelings of her
affectionate heart. Was it possible that her brother could not only think of
them in this light, but could calmly express the feeling; that he should not
only be void of affection, but that even the wish to seem hospitable, kind, or
generous should be wanting. What would be a home in his house—what comforts—what
peace could it promise, where such an expression was to meet them ere they
crossed his threshold. Before the colour which these feelings called up had died
away from her cheeks, Robert continued—

"Jane is of opinion that there must have been great want of tact and management
on your part, Emma, during your visits to the Howards and the Castle, or you
might certainly have turned them to better account." "I am sorry Jane sees
anything to blame in my conduct," replied Emma, meekly; "but I do not know what
she expected of me." "I told her she was far too sanguine," continued Robert;
"but she would have it, that, with proper attention, you might have succeeded in
securing the young lord. You must have been thrown in his way a good deal; and,
certainly, for an unprovided girl like you, it becomes an important duty to omit
no opportunity of advancing your own interests, and those of your family, by
securing a good establishment when in your power." Emma was silent; her
prevailing feeling being too lively a sense of indignation to make it safe for
her to speak. "I hope you are not to blame through any culpable negligence; the
young lord is to be sure a great ass I believe; but the match would be a capital
one for you—the making of your family. I should like of all things to be agent
and manager of his property—remember that!" "I am afraid," replied Emma,
struggling to speak calmly, "that if your wish depends for fulfilment on my
marrying Lord Osborne, there is but little chance of its being gratified." "I am
sorry to hear it," replied he, gravely; "but I know such desirable alliances are
not to be compassed without a little trouble and exertion: and, perhaps, if you
were to remain a little longer in the neighbourhood your chance would be better.
I'll think about that." Emma longed to tell him not to trouble himself, but she
thought it most prudent to remain silent. The next time she was alone with the
eldest sister, Elizabeth confided to her the extreme satisfaction which the news
of Penelope's engagement gave her. It seemed to be quite certain, from what she
could learn, everything was preparing apace, an the marriage would have soon
been performed if their father's illness had not interfered. As far as money
went, it was decidedly a good match for Pen; and though Elizabeth herself, did
not fancy an asthmatic, elderly widower, yet she could not expect every one to
have her tastes, and if Penelope herself was satisfied, that was all that could
be required. Emma could not think and feel the same; she wished that her sister
should have required more; that she should have been incapable of considering a
sufficient jointure to be the principal aim and end of engaging in matrimony.
Something must be wanting—something either of delicacy or principle, which could
lead her to such results; and she wondered Elizabeth did not feel this too. Miss
Watson then proceeded to discuss Margaret's engagement, which she declared,
seemed to her incredible; she told Emma that the night of the ball, whilst
returning home, Margaret had, after a great deal of nonsense, announced her
engagement with Tom, and declared that he was to come the next day and ask her
father's consent. That she evidently expected him herself in the
afternoon—having bestowed uncommon care on her toilette, and persuaded Elizabeth
to add another dish to their dinner, in case he should remain the afternoon with
them; but that the gentleman had never made his appearance; and in the evening,
the seizure of their father had put it all out of her head. She doubted very
much now, whether the whole was not a mistake—the illusion of Margaret's vanity,
or the consequence of some extra flattery on Tom's part, arising from the
excitement of champagne and flirtation. There were two whole days now passed,
and he had not been near them—Margaret had written to him yesterday, but had
received no answer; and if Elizabeth were in her place, she should certainly not
feel satisfied with such conduct. After a little internal hesitation, Emma told
Elizabeth, that so far as the fact of Tom's having proposed and been accepted
was concerned, she could herself answer for the truth of Margaret's statement.
She related to her, under a promise of secrecy for the present, the circumstance
of her own and Miss Osborne's being accidental listeners to the whole
occurrence; this, of course, settled the point, but did not diminish the wonder
of the girls, both that Mr. Musgrove should have proposed to Margaret, and that
he should since, have taken no further steps in the business. They wondered in
vain—and they had not much time to devote to wonder—their father's situation
soon recalled their thoughts and demanded all their attention. But still in the
interval of repose, which this occupation necessarily allowed, Emma found her
mind continually reverting to past scenes; to the hopes which had once been so
pleasant and lively, and the disappointment which had succeeded them. She told
herself she must not think of it; she determined that she would not—sometimes
she almost persuaded herself that she did not; but she could not regulate her
feelings as she wished; and many a time she was unconsciously dwelling on the
past, whilst she fancied herself meditating on her present duty. It was
Penelope's turn to remain during dinner with her father, and Emma was once more
in company with her repulsive brother. It was really with a sensible reluctance
that she sat down to the same table with him—but she struggled against the
feeling, aware that it ought to be overcome if there was to be any future peace
or comfort for her. The dinner was more than plain—unfortunately, it was almost
entirely cold; but, in the hurry occasioned by the illness of Mr. Watson, the
rest of his family might reasonably expect to be less comfortably accommodated
than usual. Elizabeth had hardly given the subject a thought; and not at all
indeed, until it was too late for amendment, beyond a steak hurriedly cooked for
Robert's sake. But this was tough—tough as the table, so Robert said, and he had
a particular dislike to cold mutton. His plate was pushed away with an air of
uncontrollable disgust—and he sat eyeing the table with gloomy looks, whilst his
sister good-humouredly apologised for the hardness of the fare. "Shall I have
the satisfaction of helping you to a little of this cow?" enquired he, balancing
his knife and fork in his hand, and pointing with them to the condemned steak.
"I recommend you to try it, Elizabeth, and then you may, perhaps, remember
another time, and make better provision for such unfortunate individuals as are
compelled, through circumstances to become your guests—you ought to be ashamed
of yourself, Elizabeth-"

"Upon my word, Robert, I could not help it; I will try and give you a better
dinner to-morrow; but it's not my fault entirely, that the steak is tough. I
thought, perhaps, it would be; but it was the only thing we could dress—and I
thought you would like that better than nothing." "I cannot comprehend such bad
management—why is not your cook to dress a dinner for me?—what else had she to
do of more importance?—she can_not_ be wanted by my father! For _me_—you will
look very blank, I expect, when you come to live with me, if I set you down to
such fare as this!" Elizabeth had the sense and the forbearance to remain
perfectly silent; and Robert, finding that all his indignation could not
overcome impossibilities, or cook him a dinner where the materials were actually
wanting, thought it best to make some attempts at eating; and proceeded, with an
air of injured dignity, to devour the unfortunate subject of his wrath. "I
think, Jane would be rather astonished if she knew what sort of dinner I have
been compelled to make," was his observation when he laid down his knife and
fork. "She would hardly expect to find me dining so contentedly off a tough old
steak—ill-cooked, and no sauce. I always have observed in most houses, here
especially, none are so badly provided for as the eldest sons. I suppose any
thing is good enough for them—it does not signify what I eat at all—I am only
your brother—only the head of the house—only the man on whom you will be
dependent when—but no matter, I hope you will fare better in my house, that's
all!" "I am very sorry," repeated Elizabeth, "I know it's very disagreeable to
have a bad dinner, but I hope it will not happen again, and I'll try and get you
something you will like for supper; a broiled fowl and an omelette—could you
fancy that, Robert?" Robert assented; but his wrath was evidently mollified at
the promise, and no more was said about the unfortunate dinner at that time.
Another day put a period to their suspense, and confirmed their worst
anticipation. Mr. Watson was no more; and his four daughters were left to all
the evils which Robert had so providentially pointed out to them. Their feelings
and their manner of expressing them, were as different as their characters, and
their ways of thinking. Emma, who knew the least of him, certainly experienced
the greatest grief—Elizabeth mourned too—but there were so many things for her
to think of—much to plan and arrange—so much of economy to be mingled with a
wish of doing every thing as handsomely as possible, that she had no time to
cultivate sorrow as a duty, or indulge in its appearance as a recreation. Emma
was active and useful likewise—but she busied herself in spite of her grief—Miss
Watson grieved only in the intervals of her business. CHAPTER VI. When first
Robert came to Winston, Elizabeth had consulted him on the subject of sending
for Sam, but her brother opposed it. Emma had listened in silent anxiety to the
debate, and in keen disappointment to its termination. From her sister's
conversation, she had an ardent desire to meet her unknown brother; she expected
to be able to like him—Elizabeth had, in speaking of him, told many little
traits of character, which convinced her that he must possess a generous
disposition and an affectionate heart; she longed to see him—to know him—to be
loved by him. But Robert had decided that though he was, of course, to be
informed of his father's illness, there was no need to say any thing which
should induce him to come himself—no doubt it would be excessively inconvenient
to his master—a needless expense to himself—perfectly undesirable in every way,
and quite unnecessary; for, of what use could Sam be when Robert himself was
there. He was nobody—a younger son—the most unimportant being in the world. As
to his wishing to see his father again, what did that signify? People could not
always have what they wished for—young men in their apprenticeship must not look
for holidays; he was sure _he_ should never have thought of any thing of the
sort whilst he was serving his articles; and now, how seldom did he ever take a
holiday from the office? Let Sam look to him and his application to business, if
he wanted an example of steadiness and good conduct. But Emma's wish to see her
brother was not fated to be entirely disappointed, for no sooner did he receive
the news of his father's death, than he obtained leave of absence from his
master without difficulty, and arrived unexpectedly at Winston. She was sitting
alone in the darkened parlour, when an unknown step arrested her attention; it
was not the slow, measured consequential tread of Robert; it was quicker,
lighter, more like one which had sometimes made her heart beat before; at least
so she fancied for a moment, perhaps only because she had just been thinking of
him. The footstep passed the door, then paused, returned and entered slowly. It
was not more than the doubt of a moment, as to the identity of the intruder;
there was so strange a family likeness on each side, a likeness of more than
features, a likeness in mind and temper, a sympathy of feeling, that the
hesitation of the brother and sister was brief indeed. "My dear Emma, how I have
longed to see you," cried he advancing, "I am your youngest brother, will you
not welcome me?" The cordial, fraternal embrace with which the words were
accompanied, overcame her firmness, and she burst into tears in his arms. He was
much affected likewise, but struggled for composure in order to soothe her,
opened the window to give her air, brought her a glass of water from the side-
board, and then sitting down with his arm round her waist, drew from her all the
circumstances of his father's death, and learnt that it was Robert's doing that
he had not been summoned sooner. That hour repaid Emma for much that she had
suffered mentally in her father's house. She had found a friend in her brother.
The dearest, the least selfish, the most equal bond which nature ties; children
of the same parents, sharing the same fears, the same sorrows; from that moment
was laid the foundation of an affection which added so greatly to her happiness;
feelings till then sleeping unknown in her heart, were suddenly awakened; and
affections which almost unconsciously had been craving for subsistence, having
now found an aliment to nourish and satisfy them, grew rapidly into strength and
beauty. One hour's delightful intercourse was theirs, before they were
interrupted by the rest of the family; but when her other sisters entered the
room, Emma could not but wonder at the indifference with which he was received
both by Pen and Margaret, and imputing to him the sensitive feelings of her own
heart, felt doubly pained by each cold word or careless look bestowed on her new
brother. Robert's reception, however, was the worst of all. "So you are come,
are you—hum," that was his salutation. "Yes," replied Sam quietly, "of course
you were expecting me!" "A most needless waste of time and money, I must say—a
young fellow not out of his apprenticeship, has no right to be flying over the
country in this way, without any suitable reason." Sam controlled himself so far
as not to answer. "It's throwing away your master's time in a most unjustifiable
way." "Excuse me, Robert, Mr. Allen voluntarily gave me permission to come here,
and most kindly made me master of my own time for a week." "Quite unnecessary,
whilst you are an apprentice." "I believe _he_ thought that even an apprentice
might have feeling," replied Sam with emphasis. "You might at least have asked
my opinion, I think—as your elder brother you might have consulted me, before
incurring so much expense." "Robert, I am accountable to Mr. Allen alone for my
time—as to my pecuniary affairs, I am not answerable to you; and as to coming to
this house, Elizabeth, who is mistress here, has told me I am welcome, and I
require no more from any one. My sense of duty led me here, but depend upon it,
I will ask _your_ leave, before I intrude on your house at Croydon." Robert
turned away, and had recourse to his usual expedient when vexed, namely,
stirring the fire into a vehement blaze. It was in pursuance of a system of
counter-irritation, by creating a greater degree of external warmth, no doubt he
counteracted the internal heat from which he was suffering. The whole of the
week which Sam spent at home, was one of consolation and comfort to poor Emma;
he listened to all she could tell him, made her describe her past life, talked
of her uncle and aunt, questioned her as to the effects of her change, entered
into her feelings, anticipated what they must have been, sympathised warmly in
them all, and was in fact a true, warm-hearted brother to the forlorn girl.
Together they talked of their father, praised his amiable disposition, sorrowed
for his loss; then Sam told her his prospects and wishes, confided to her his
attachment to Mary Edwards, and his wavering hopes of success; his plans for his
future subsistence, and his anticipations of the brilliant success which was to
await him in his profession. Emma's future prospects likewise were canvassed. He
could not bear the idea of her having to reside with Robert and his wife. "You
will tell me it's wrong, I dare say," said he, "but I detest Mrs. Robert, she is
so self-sufficient, so cold-hearted, and so in-sincere—indeed I wish her no ill,
Emma, I am not malicious; my detestation does not go so far as that, but I
cannot wish her to have your society for a constancy—it would be thrown away on
her, and she would torment you to death." "Oh no, I hope not; I trust if my home
must be there, that I shall have strength of mind and patience to bear with her.
You must not weaken my mind by commiseration; you should rather teach me to look
forward with hope, or at least resignation; do not pity me, that does me harm."
Sam protested that Emma was in every respect much too good for such a situation,
and that the moment he had a house and an income, however small, she should
share it with him. Her promise to do so was as cordially given as it was
required, and her heart already felt lighter and happier from her acquaintance
with her dear brother. When their father's will came to be examined, it appeared
that it was dated three years previously, and that of the sum of two thousand
pounds, which Mr. Watson had to bequeath, neither Emma or Robert were to receive
any share. The latter had already been put in possession of all that he could
reasonably expect, his father having made considerable advances to establish him
in business, and at the time when the will was made, every one supposed Emma
would be provided for by her uncle, and though that expectation had been
entirely frustrated, it seemed that Mr. Watson had never summoned sufficient
energy to alter his will, and give her any share in the little he possessed. It
did not transpire whether Robert was much disappointed at finding he was to have
no further benefit from being the eldest son; perhaps the idea that Emma, by
becoming entirely dependent on him, would be liable to be subject to all his
caprices, and might be made a complete slave of in his house, soothed away the
bitterness of his mortification. He took leave of the family immediately, and
returned to Croydon, having arranged, that when everything was settled at
Winston, three of his sisters should follow him there; Penelope professing it to
be her intention to return to Chichester as soon as she conveniently could.
Sam's week was not yet expired, and he remained with his sisters. The morning
after Robert's departure, as Emma and her brother were sitting together,
Margaret joined them, and sitting down beside Sam, told him with a consequential
air, that she wanted very much to consult him. "Well, Margaret, what can I do
for you?" enquired he kindly. "I want your advice on an affair of great
importance, Sam, and you must promise to give it to me." "Readily, Margaret,
that's a thing you know everybody likes to be asked for, so come, let's have the
whole history—I will not even require you to follow my advice when I have given
it: that would be too much altogether." "Well, listen; I am engaged to be
married—what do you think of that?" "I will tell you when I know who it is."
"Oh, I assure you it is a very desirable match, a most excellent young man—so
amiable, and fashionable, and clever, as you will at once allow when you hear it
is—Mr. Tom Musgrove!" "Tom Musgrove—indeed, I am surprised, Margaret—that he
should marry, and marry you, would, I own, astonish me." "But I tell you it is a
fact, Sam, we are engaged beyond all doubt, and why you _should_ be surprised at
_my_ being his choice, I cannot understand." "I beg your pardon, Margaret, tell
me what you want my advice about—not as to accepting him I presume?" "No,
indeed—but I am in an unfortunate situation; I am so miserable; ever since the
happy night at Osborne Castle, when he plighted his troth to me, we have not
met, and I have heard nothing of him." "That is very extraordinary,
Margaret—nothing at all—and can you not account for it." "No, otherwise than I
am sure he is ill—nothing else could be the reason of such unexampled silence.
It was after supper when he made the offer, and I cannot help fearing that the
champagne and the lobster salad may have been too much for his constitution."
"Did he take much champagne then?" "Much—no, not much, that is, not enough
to—to—just you know to raise his spirits a good deal; I did not count the
glasses!" "And it was then he proposed to you—are you sure he was sober at the
time, Margaret?" "What questions you ask, Sam—sober! you quite shock me—remember
you are talking to a young lady." "Well, I will not forget that, but really I
don't see anything so bad in the question, and I know no more delicate way of
putting it to suit you: are you sure he was not drunk at the time?—will that
do?" "Upon my word—worse and worse, as if I should talk to a man who was drunk,
what do you take me for?" "I am sorry to offend you, my dear sister, but I have
known Tom Musgrove a long time, and some times seen him very drunk. Indeed, in
my opinion, he is just the sort of man to make a fool of himself first, and then
of any girl who would listen to him." "How excessively unkind you are, Sam,"
pouted Margaret, apparently on the point of crying—"I am quite sure you are
wrong. Tom never could or would make a fool of me. He is not the sort of man at
all; but, as I have heard nothing of him since that evening, I wish you to go
and call on him—tell him how much pleased you are to hear of the engagement, and
beg him to come and see me—there is no occasion to shut him out of the house,
though we do not admit other visitors." "That's your plan, is it? But suppose he
declines altogether—suppose he should say it was a dream on your part—a
delusion—a mistake; suppose that is the reason of his silence, what am I to do
then?" "Oh! if he were to do that, you must challenge him! You could not do less
for such an insult to your sister, you must send him a challenge, and I could
bring an action against him for breach of promise!" "Well, if you mean to do
that, I think I had better let the challenge alone; because the one might
interfere with the other; if I were to shoot him, you know your action could not
be brought." "Do you mean that you will not do as I ask you?" "Indeed I do."
"Then I think you most unkind and ungenerous; I always understood it was a
brother's duty to fight with every man who insulted his sister or broke an
engagement to her." "But, allowing us such high privileges, my dear Margaret, I
think I am justified in requiring proof; first, that the engagement was made;
secondly, that it has been broken. I am not clear yet on either of these
points." "I see what it is, you are determined not to help me; and I think it
very ill-natured and cowardly of you to stand by and see your sister insulted
and robbed of her best affections, and not interfere the least for her sake."
"Indeed, my dear Margaret, I cannot see that my interference has the least
chance of doing any good; if Tom was serious and sober, he will need no
intervention of mine to remind him of his promises; if he was drunk and did not
know what he was saying, the less that is publicly known of such a transaction,
the better in every respect for your dignity." "I see you will not take my
part—you are no use at all; I shall just take my own way, and see if I consult
you in a hurry again." Whilst the silence and indifference of Margaret's lover,
gave her so much concern—the attention and assiduity of Emma's, occasioned
almost as much excitement in the mind of the latter. Not a day had Passed
without Lord Osborne either calling himself at the door, or sending a groom with
a joint message of inquiry from his sister and himself; several kind little
notes had been received from the young lady, expressing concern and sympathy,
and it was quite evident that they did not wish to drop the acquaintance.
Nothing had been seen of Mr. Howard; but a note from Mrs. Willis, assured Emma
that they had heard every day through Lord Osborne or they would have sent more
frequently to enquire for her welfare. This was consolotary, as serving to
convince her that she was not forgotten at the parsonage: but she could not help
murmuring a little to herself, that Mr. Howard should have so entirely withdrawn
from personal intercourse. Sam had received from her, a minute history of her
acquaintances at the Castle and Parsonage; and when he subsequently became aware
of the visits of Lord Osborne, he immediately formed the very natural conclusion
that the young peer must be in love with his sister. Emma appeared to him so
pretty and so amiable, that her being loved was the most simple and probable
event; and he only wished that Lord Osborne had been more worthy of her; but the
peerage and fortune of the supposed lover, did not quite blind the brother's
eyes to the fact, that their owner was not distinguished by any characteristic
worthy of his high birth; and Sam could not wish his sister to sacrifice
domestic happiness for the glitter of a coronet, or the _harmony_ of a title.
She must have a husband who united mental and moral qualifications to those of
birth, wealth and station; and if he possessed the means of advancing Sam
himself in his profession, it would be so much the better. "Did you ever, in
your life, see such a fool as Margaret makes of herself, Sam?" was Penelope's
observation one day, when the whole family were sitting together. "She will
persist in asserting that she is engaged to Tom Musgrove, though I have taken
the trouble of ascertaining that he has left home, and the servants are not sure
whether he is gone to London or Bath. I asked the baker's boy to enquire, in
order to set her mind at ease. I must say, I think her story very incompatible
with facts." "I am sure I am necessarily obliged to you, Penelope, for your kind
way of speaking to me; but I know very well what it is, you are all envious of
my good luck, and that's the reason you will none of you believe me; but, some
day, I shall pay you off, you will see." "In the mean time, I will give you
ample credit, Margaret, feeling confident you will never forget a debt of that
kind; but, if you are Mrs. Tom Musgrove six months hence, I will admit that I
know nothing of you—nothing of Tom—nothing of men in general, and that I am
little better than an idiot." "I do not see why you should doubt it at all,"
cried Elizabeth, interposing, "I am sure I believe it entirely, don't you Emma?"
"The gentleman is probably gone to London to give instructions for preparing the
settlements," observed Sam, gravely, preventing, by his interposition, any
necessity for Emma to answer her eldest sister's question. Margaret assented to
this proposition, and Penelope took no further trouble to vex her at that
moment. Meantime all the necessary arrangements for the girls quitting their old
home were made, with all possible despatch. Margaret indeed took no interest in
the proceedings, contenting herself with wandering about, and fretting for Mr.
Musgrove; but the others were busy from the time Sam left them; and towards the
end of a month, the time for removing to Croydon, began to be discussed. Pen
still held to her resolution of not visiting her brother, she determined to
return to her friend at Chichester, and marry from her house; and she announced
that the marriage would take place within a few weeks of her quitting her home.
Emma was sorry at parting with her—she had got over the shock which her coarse
manners had at first inflicted; and they had always agreed very well since the
day at Osborne Castle. In fact, what Penelope had observed there of the kindness
and attention which Emma received from that family had greatly raised her sister
in importance in her mind; a girl so much noticed and liked by people who had
never stooped to them before must be worth agreeing with; and as there was
everything in Emma's own manners and temper to recommend her to the kindly
disposed, Penelope had always avoided quarrelling with her, as she constantly
did with her other sisters. Consequently, Emma could not help wishing it was
Margaret who was going to Chichester, and Pen who was to share their home at
Croydon. Things, however, were really better arranged than she could have
ordered them, for it would have been impossible for Penelope and Jane Watson to
have continued in the same house, without the certain destruction of the peace
of all around. There was no one in the neighbourhood to regret, excepting Mrs.
Willis, for Emma would not allow even to herself that the separation from Mr.
Howard gave her any concern; and it was a satisfaction to quit the vicinity of
Osborne Castle, and the scenes where she had been so happy. The Osborne family
were all gone to town without her having seen anything more of them; or the suit
of the young nobleman having made any progress. She did not expect ever to see
them again. Her own plan for the future was to try to procure a situation as
teacher in a boarding school, or private governess; anything by which she could
feel she was earning the food she eat, in preference to becoming as her brother
expressed it, a burden on his family. She began now to comprehend more fully
than she had done before, what an evil poverty might be, and felt a vivid
sensation of regret that her uncle had left her so entirely dependent on others
after giving her an education which quite unfitted her for filling the situation
of humble companion to her sister-in-law. She struggled to suppress the feeling
that she had been unjustly and unkindly dealt with, but it would intrude, to her
great discomfort. But though there were few people to regret amongst her
associates, there were sufficient discomforts and worries of other kinds
attending their removal. The dismantling of their old home—the sale of the
furniture—a portion of which was taken by the succeeding rector, the rest was to
be disposed of by auction; the disputes about dilapidations; the finding
situations for their servants; the vain attempts to procure a purchaser amongst
their acquaintance for their old horse, even the parting with the house-dog and
their two cows made Emma sorrowful. Added to all this was the incessant repining
of Margaret, who was fretting herself almost into a decline, at the
disappearance of Tom Musgrove, and the ill-natured letters of Robert Watson, who
regularly quarrelled with everything Elizabeth did or did not do; who disputed
all their proposals, and suggested nothing but impossibilities himself. Emma
could not make up her mind on another point, and this was an additional worry to
her. She knew that Margaret's assertions were correct, that Tom Musgrove had
really made the offer which no one else believed, and she doubted whether it was
not her duty to support her sister's declarations by her testimony. But this
threatened to involve so great an evil, that she shrank from it; it was evident
that had Robert been aware she was a witness to the proceeding, he would
immediately have taken advantage of the fact to compel Tom to fulfil his
promise, or threaten him with an action, in case he refused. Margaret seemed
likewise to be much inclined to this course, as the determined silence and
prolonged absence of her lover naturally gave her doubts of his fidelity. The
idea was horrible to Emma, and the possibility of her having to appear in a
court of justice was most overpowering. Elizabeth, with whom she consulted on
the subject, and who, from her partiality to Emma, was far more inclined to
consider her feelings than those of Margaret, advised her, for the present, at
least, to hold her tongue, and see how the affair would be settled without her
intervention, and from not knowing what better to do, Emma finally decided to
take her sister's advice. At length, just before quitting Winston, she had a
farewell visit from Mrs. Willis and her brother, whose plan for leaving home,
she was already aware, had been renounced. The lady was the same as ever,
friendly and warm in her manners; but Mr. Howard looked pale and ill, and was
evidently out of spirits. The visit was short; and when they parted, Emma found
the interview had only added an additional pang to all the sufferings she had
previously endured. And thus, for a second time, was Emma Watson driven out from
the home where she had vainly hoped to find a continued shelter, and a second
time compelled to look for protection from strange relatives. It was strange
that though at this moment she really had more subjects of anxiety, more sources
of depression and sorrow, she bore it so much better than the first. Then she
had seemed overwhelmed—now strengthened by the blow. She was learning to see
life, its duties, and its trials, in a new light; she discovered that suffering
was not an accidental circumstance, like a transitory illness, to be cured and
forgotten as soon as possible; it was the condition of life itself—peace was the
exception—and she had enjoyed her share; henceforth, she must look forward to
trial and endurance, she must struggle as millions had struggled before her, and
learn to draw contentment not from circumstances but from temper of mind.
Conscious that whilst in her brother's house she should probably have much to
bear, she sought for strength greater than her own to go through with it; and
endeavoured by viewing her expected trials, as a system of mental discipline
which would benefit her, if well supported, to bring her mind into a frame to
endure them with patience. CHAPTER VII. The journey to Croydon was safely
performed and as expeditiously as could be expected by three young ladies and a
quantity of luggage travelling through cross roads with post-horses. Margaret
was quite at home in the streets of Croydon and its neighbourhood, and pointed
out to whom the various houses belonged with a feeling of exultation, as if
knowing the names of the owners when her sisters did not were the next thing to
possessing them herself. The bright green door, with its brass-handled bell, was
easily recognised by the large plate bearing the owner's name which adorned it.
The door was opened by a footman who informed them that master was at the
office, missus was out in the town, but they could step into the drawing-room
whilst they waited for her return. With evident nonchalance, and something like
insolence, he assisted the post-boy to unload the carriage, and summoning the
house-maid, enquired if she knew what was to be done with all _them_ things. The
waiting-woman decided that nothing could be ventured on till the missus came
home; she had changed her mind so often about the rooms, that it was quite
uncertain what would be settled on at last; and if she should happen to alter
her arrangements whilst she was out, it was evident they would have had all
their trouble for nothing. The three girls were therefore sentenced to sit in
the parlour during the interval, which Emma could not help feeling might have
been more profitably employed in unpacking and arranging their property. There
was little to amuse them during their temporary confinement. A copy of "The
Lady's Magazine," containing the recent Parisian fashions, was instantly seized
on by Margaret; a cookery-book and a child's doll were lying beside it, and a
cat and a kitten were reposing on the hearth rug, which, judging from its
texture and the ugliness of its pattern, was probably the work of some domestic
needle. Some uncommonly rare paintings hung against the walls—rare from the
total want of taste harmony and merit which they displayed. Beside them were two
most striking portraits which were considerately labelled as intending to
represent the master and mistress of the house, thereby preventing such mistakes
as to identity as might have occurred. The carpet was faded, the chairs and
couch covered with slippery black horse-hair, bumping up into hard offensive
things called cushions; the table was covered with green-baize much stained with
wine, and the easy chair by the fire showed the exact spot where the owner was
accustomed to repose his powdered and pomatumed head. Presently the door opened
and the little girl appeared. Margaret instantly rushed up to embrace her, but
the child, who seemed peculiarly self-possessed for her age, repulsed her. "I
did not come here to see you, aunt Margaret," said she. "Which is Emma?" "I am,"
said Emma advancing, and pleased to be called for. Her niece considered her
attentively with an air of surprise, then said, "But you are quite tidy and
clean—not ragged and dirty!" "No my dear," replied Emma smiling at her puzzled
look; "why did you expect to see me otherwise?" "Because the people my nurse
tells me are beggars in the street go without shoes, and wear old clothes." Emma
coloured slightly and made no reply, but Margaret, pressing forwards, again
asked what that had to do with aunt Emma. "Papa and mama said she was a beggar,
and I thought she would look like them—but she is nice and looks good, and I
will not mind you teaching me at all: will you make me pretty frocks?—mama said
you should." "I shall be very glad, love," replied Emma, "to do anything I can
for you and your mama too; will you sit on my knee and tell me what I shall make
your frocks of?" Whilst Emma was making friends with her little niece, Mrs.
Robert Watson herself arrived. She received her sisters-in-law with more
cordiality than Emma expected from the epithet applied to herself, which the
child had just betrayed. In fact she was rather pleased than otherwise at this
accession to her family; she felt that she had secured a careful assistant to
the cook in Elizabeth, who was well versed in the mysteries of pastry and
custards, cakes, jellies, and raised pies; and in Emma she hoped to find a
competent nursery-governess who would relieve her of all cares as to the child,
and supply, unsalaried, the place of the nurse-maid, to whom, under this
impression, she had already given warning. After chatting some time with them,
she rang for the house-maid to show them to their rooms, and the child declared
she would accompany them as aunt Emma's room was close to the nursery. And so
Emma found it was, for she was shown into a small closet containing a bed with
room to walk round it, an old chest of drawers and a high stool. This was her
apartment. There was no chimney, and the window looked out upon a small space of
flat leads, surmounted by high, black, tiled roofs. It had commenced raining
since they entered the house, and the gurgle of the water in the gutter, and
drip from the window on the leads had a peculiarly monotonous sound. Emma looked
at the forlorn and cheerless closet, and felt she was a beggar indeed. She
hoped, however, that when her boxes and books were brought up she should be able
to make it a little more comfortable; at least she had it to herself, and should
be able to pass her time there in peace. Her niece dragged her off to see the
nurseries—the two rooms devoted to her occupied the rest of that floor, they
were spacious and in every respect comfortable, except that they were littered
with playthings which their owner apparently had not learnt to value. As it drew
near to the dinner-hour Emma ventured down stairs, and found her brother and his
wife in the parlour. Robert received her in his usual manner: in another moment
her two sisters entered, and they sat round the fire whilst waiting for dinner.
"I hope you like your rooms, girls," said Mrs. Watson; "I thought it would not
matter putting Elizabeth and you together, Margaret, because I know it's only
for a time. I have heard—a little bird whispered to me a certain story which you
need not blush about—of a certain young man—I know who—and I am sure I
congratulate you: when did you hear from him last, my dear?" "Oh, my dear Jane I
have not heard from him at all. Ever since the evening when he proposed he has
disappeared from the country, and I cannot find out where he is gone, nor induce
him to make any answer to my repeated letters." "Indeed! that's very odd—do you
think he means to break his engagement?" "I cannot tell what he means, for my
own part; I think some one has been slandering me to him, telling him things to
my disadvantage, or perhaps intercepting one of my letters. Oh, I have thought
of a thousand reasons for his silence, without charging him with infidelity, and
I console myself with the hope that when the romantic interruption to our
correspondence is removed, and the mystery which now envelops the affair is
cleared away, that I shall find he has been suffering as much from the
misunderstanding as myself." "I am sure I hope you may—but are you certain there
is no mistake on your part?" said her sister-in-law; "are you sure that he
really proposed to you?" "I am as positive of the fact," said Margaret, "as I
ever was of anything in my life." "Well that is a good deal," observed Robert,
"for you can be pretty positive when you please. But I only wish, if it's true,
you had had some witnesses—then I could have helped you." "Would you have called
him out?" enquired his wife in a tone of indifference which quite startled Emma.
"No, I should have called him _in_," said Robert laughing, "if the fellow
refused to marry her, I would have had him up for a breach of promise, without
ceremony." "And what should I get for that?" said Margaret eagerly. "You might
perhaps have got a couple of thousands—I think I would lay the damages at
three." "Only three, Robert! I am sure that is not enough for deceiving me,
robbing me of my best affections, betraying my trust—oh, three thousand pounds
would be no compensation for such conduct, no adequate compensation. I am sure
my heart is worth more than that." "I dare say you think so, Margaret," replied
Robert coolly; "but you might not persuade a jury to think it likewise; there
would be the difficulty." "But would you really go to law about it?" enquired
Emma. "Only think how it would make you talked about." "Well, so much the
better," replied Margaret sharply; "why should I mind that? I am not afraid of
being spoken of." "It would be much better to make him pay damages than compel
him to marry you," observed Elizabeth. "I always wonder women venture to do
that—I should be afraid he would beat me afterwards." "Two or three thousand
pounds would secure you a respectable husband, Margaret," continued Robert. "My
friend, George Millar, would perhaps take you then." "I think I would rather
marry Tom Musgrove than anybody," replied Margaret. "George Millar is only a
brewer, after all, and Tom is a gentleman and has nothing to do." "But Millar
has a capital business, I can tell you," cried Mrs. Watson; "I should not mind
my own sister marrying him. Why I know he used to allow his late wife more than
a hundred a month to keep the table and find herself in gowns—a very pretty
allowance—and very pretty gowns she used to wear." "Aye, George Millar could
count thousands for Musgrove's hundreds," said Robert, "and a capital fellow he
is. I only wish you might have such luck as to marry him, either of you girls."
The conversation was interrupted by the dinner, which was a welcome sight to the
hungry travellers, who had tasted nothing since their early breakfast at
Winston. Their brother looked at the table with evident pride. "Well, Elizabeth,
I promised you rather a better dinner than you gave me at Winston," observed he.
He had the habit of reverting to past grievances. "You have kept your word too,"
replied she good-humouredly. "Oh, my dear creature," cried Jane, "Robert told me
of the shocking dinner he had—poor fellow, you certainly always managed very
badly about such things; perhaps it might do you no harm if I gave you some
lessons; I have rather a genius for housekeeping—at least so my friends tell
me—my uncle Sir Thomas used to like me to order his dinner." "My dear Jane, I am
afraid your instructions would be quite wasted on me, unless you would give me
your income to supply my wishes—when any one allows me a hundred a month for the
table expenses, I will give capital dinners," said Elizabeth. "You are not
thinking of what you are doing, Jane," said her husband reproachfully, "you know
I cannot eat the wing of a fowl unless it is torn properly—Emma, I'll trouble
you to cut some bacon—good heavens, I cannot eat it so thick as that-you are not
helping a Winston plough boy remember!" Emma endeavoured to comply but she grew
nervous, and her brother was angry, and sent for the dish that he might help
himself. Emma coloured and apologised. "You should try to oblige, Emma," said
Jane coolly, "a little pains bestowed on such things, is quite as useful and
essential to good breeding as painting or books. Careless ways of carving are
very detrimental to the comfort of a family, and though it may seem of no
importance to you, it makes all the difference to a delicate palate—one used to
the niceties of life—a gentleman in fact." Emma _felt_, though she did not say,
that there was no delicacy of feeling, whatever there might be of palate, in her
sister-in-law—but she wisely held her tongue on the subject. After dinner the
little girl made her appearance, and immediately required of her mother a share
in the walnuts on the table. "My precious one, you must have them peeled for
you." "Yes, mama, peel them." "No, my darling, they stain my fingers—ask your
aunt Emma, I dare say she will do it." The child crept to Emma, "Good-natured
aunt, peel me some walnuts." Emma readily agreed to do so, wishing, so far as
lay in her power, to shew that she really was anxious to oblige. The little girl
seated herself on her knee, and endeavoured at first to assist in the operation,
but soon relinquished the attempt, and contented herself with slyly dropping the
walnut shells down Emma's neck, and slipping them under her gown, a playful
trick which amused her mother excessively when she discovered it, and gave Emma
the trouble of going to her room to undress, before she could free herself from
the disagreeable sensations they occasioned. The conversation before dinner
still dwelt heavy in her mind; she felt persuaded that the time would come, when
she and Miss Osborne too must step forward to prove the truth of her sister's
words, and she shuddered at the idea. She felt that she must make some apology,
or at least some announcement of her intentions to Miss Osborne, before she
could venture to risk such very unpleasant consequences to them both: and she
determined to write to her, and tell her the circumstances as they occurred, and
ask her to support and substantiate her word when it came to be questioned. Her
head was too weary and dizzy to undertake anything of the kind that night, but
she resolved not to defer it very long for Margaret's sake. A day or two passed
on, and Emma began to wonder when she should find time for writing the projected
letter. Her sister-in-law kept her so fully employed, that a spare quarter of an
hour was not to be had; her talents with needle and scissors had attracted
Jane's observation when at Winston, and now they were put into constant
requisition in mending the child's wardrobe, or improving the mother's. Her
niece's lessons were likewise turned over to her, for she was to learn her
alphabet, her parents expecting her to be a little prodigy, and Emma must spare
no pains to produce the desired result. Take this as a specimen of their usual
routine. "I wish, Elizabeth, now you seem to be at leisure," said Jane entering
the parlour, "you would just go and teach my cook to make those custard
puddings, and if you would put her in the way of making almond cakes, such as
you had at your father's, I should thank you. We have some friends coming to
tea, and I should like them to taste those." Elizabeth, who was just taking up
her needle to mend a garment of her own, very good-temperedly put it away, and
repaired to the kitchen to superintend her sister's confectionary affairs. "Now,
Emma," cried Jane, turning to her, "I'll call Janetta, and you shall give her a
lesson, I should like her to know the 'Busy Bee' to say to the visitors to-
night." "That little darling," exclaimed Margaret, as her sister brought in the
child, "has quite her mother's talents—my sweet pet," stroking down her hair as
she spoke, "my little beauty will grow up a clever, good woman like mama some
day, will you not, dearest." "Like me, dearest Margaret? do not wish her such an
evil, a poor weak creature like me—the child of impulse, the slave of
excitement. May she be better and happier than her poor mother!" Emma commenced
the painful task of cramming infant brains with what they could not comprehend,
for exhibition to people who did want to hear it. Jane shewed Margaret a piece
of work she wanted done, and then threw herself into a lounging chair. "Who do
you expect here this evening, Jane?" enquired Margaret, "I did not know you
meant to have company." "It's a country client of my husband's who is coming to
dine," replied Mrs. Watson, "and I asked one or two friends to meet him; one
cannot very well help that, or else I don't know that just now, considering how
lately your old father died, that I should have had any company—but Mr. Terry is
a man of much influence!" All Emma's sensitive feelings recoiled at this
indifferent reference to their recent loss; that he was _Robert's_ father
likewise, did not seem to occur to his wife, who had never looked on him with
either affection or respect. Meantime the little Janetta—for such was her
niece's name, made but small progress towards acquiring the much desired
learning; and presently, her mother, turning sharply round, cried out:—

"I am sure, Emma, you are taking no pains about that child—for she is so quick
in general, at learning any thing; I must say, considering the circumstances,
and the liberality with which your brother has received you, it is not asking
such a very wonderful favor, requesting you to attend a little to his child." "I
am sure, I am very happy to do so," replied Emma, meekly; "but your little girl
does not seem disposed to attend to me." "That must be the fault of your manner
of instructing then; you do not adopt an interesting way; but I have observed,
constantly, where most gratitude is due, least is paid; Janetta, darling, does
not your aunt teach you nicely?" "I want to look at aunt Emma's watch," replied
the child, "I hear it ticking in her pocket, and she says I must not see it till
I have done!" "How came you by a watch, Emma?" enquired Mrs. Watson, in a tone
which seemed to imply a suspicion of its being honestly acquired. "Let me see
it!" "It was a gift from my uncle," replied poor Emma, producing it rather
unwillingly. It was a very handsome one, and had her name engraved inside the
lid. "I want a watch very much—mine is not to my taste," observed Mrs. Watson,
greedily eyeing her sister-in-law's property. "You would not like to exchange,
would you, Emma?" "Certainly not," replied she hastily; "it was a keepsake from
him, and I would not willingly part with it for any thing." "Don't you think you
had better take Janetta to the nursery?" said Mrs. Watson, "I am sure she would
learn a great deal better there than here, where we are talking. There, darling,
go with Emma like a pet." Emma saw that her sister-in-law wanted to get rid of
her, but she really thought the quiet of the nursery would be preferable to the
drawing-room worries, and she gladly withdrew. "I don't quite understand that
sister of yours, Margaret," said Jane, as soon as they were left together; "I
think she seems very proud and unpleasant—a good deal of conceit and pertness,
mingled in her manner." "Exactly so, dear Jane, with your usual candour and
penetration, you have precisely described her character." "Yes," said Mrs.
Watson, with an air of great satisfaction, "I hope I can see through people a
little. If there is one quality I pride myself on, it is my penetration. I am
blessed, I acknowledge, with a singular facility for discerning characters, and
what I think I must say. I speak my feelings almost unconsciously!" "You are a
wonderfully clever creature, Jane; I am sure I never knew any one to be compared
to you; but, as to Emma, I think it's her intimacy with the Osbornes that has
set her up so abominably; really, since she has been there so much, there is no
speaking to her sometimes." "That is often the case where young girls are much
noticed by those above them in rank, Margaret; I wonder what they saw in her to
like so much—even if they thought her pretty—which I do not—I don't see why they
should notice her for that—do you think Lord Osborne liked her?" "I really don't
know—he used to look at her—and he danced with her—and called on her—I sometimes
thought he did care for her." "I wish I could devise any means of bringing them
together; if I were quite sure on that point, it would make a great difference;
but I don't suppose anything will come of it now. There's the postman's
knock—just step out in the passage and bring in the letters here; I know Mr.
Watson is out, so I can get a peep at his dispatches now." Margaret did as she
was desired and returned presently with a handful of letters. Mrs. Watson took
them on her lap and examined the post-mark and address of each. Several were,
from their size and appearance, letters of business—she put them aside—over one
she paused:

"Here's one in a lady's hand," said she, "and to my husband! London, I wonder
who that's from? I never saw the seal before or the hand writing—there's some
mystery there. I wonder whether it's from some mistress or improper person? I
dare say it is—men are always deceiving one!" "Oh, Jane!" cried Margaret,
"that's impossible! You, of all people, cannot fear a rival. Robert could not
serve you so!" "Oh! the best of women, my dear, fare no better than the worst,
with some men; the best of men are worth very little; and, as to Mr. Watson,
he's no better than his neighbours. I can tell you I would not trust him without
watching—and I'll see him open and read that letter, or my name is not Jane
Watson; but let's see—" turning again to her letters; "what else have we here?
One for me—one for Elizabeth—who's that from? look Margaret!" Margaret readily
obeyed, and kneeling down besides her sister's chair, looked at the letter in
question. "I think," said she, "it's from the upholsterer who purchased some of
our old furniture, that's H on the seal, and his name was Hill." "Very likely,
but look, Margaret, here's one for Emma—a lady's hand too—the London post-mark,
and a coronet on the seal—good gracious, that must be from Miss Osborne, or
perhaps from her brother—I wonder if one could see anything inside. You see Lord
Osborne has franked it, and it's in an envelope, how tiresome: if it had only
been folded like another letter we could have read some of it." "So we might, I
dare say Emma will never tell us a word, she's so close, she never chats
comfortably with one about anything; I am sure to this day I know nothing at all
about what she thinks of Lord Osborne, or any of his family—it's so provoking
and disagreeable." "So it is, I hate such nasty close dispositions; I, who am
all openness and frankness, cannot comprehend anything secret and underhand:
well, we cannot help it, and I suppose we shall not know what it is about. Take
those letters to the office, Margaret, and tell the clerk they were brought into
the drawing-room by mistake." Whilst Margaret fulfilled this commission, and
stopped to flirt with the young clerk who received them, an old acquaintance of
hers, Mrs. Watson, having first carefully laid aside the suspected epistle to
her husband, proceeded up-stairs with Emma's letter, and after turning it over
in every direction, and even holding it up to the light at the stair-case
window, but without benefit, she suddenly entered the nursery. There she found
Janetta had dropped asleep on a bed, and Emma taking advantage of the leisure
thus afforded, was preparing to write a letter. "Janetta asleep, oh!" said the
anxious mother, "well then you will have time, Emma, to do a little job for me,
I want some alterations in the trimmings of my bombazine gown, and I wish you
would do it for me before evening." "I shall be happy," replied Emma, "to do
anything in my power to oblige you, if you will only explain it to me." "Very
well, come with me, and I will shew you what I want; oh, by the bye, here's a
letter for you, I think it must be from Miss Osborne from the seal—does she
write to you often?" "No," replied Emma, surprised at hearing this, and holding
out her hand for the letter which Mrs. Watson still detained to examine, "I
never heard from her before since she left the country!" "Indeed, what do you
suppose she writes about—by the way, I suppose you are not accustomed to receive
letters and give no account of them, are you?" "Indeed I am," replied Emma,
quite ashamed at the idea of supervision in such a particular, "I have never
been controlled in either receiving or writing a letter." "I consider that an
exceedingly improper liberty for a young girl," observed Mrs. Watson drily, "at
your time of life, under age, I should hold your guardian as very culpable if he
took no account of your letters, and I am much mistaken if your brother does not
expect, as a matter of course, to overlook all the correspondence you chose to
carry on." "Surely he cannot consider it necessary," remonstrated Emma
seriously, "at my age—it is not as if I were a baby quite, but I am almost
twenty." "Possibly so, but whilst you are under age you are his ward, and must
have to submit to any restrictions he lays on you with a good grace. It's no use
colouring and pouting, there's nothing like bearing things with a good temper,
and not giving yourself airs and graces about it. There's your letter!" Emma
took the letter, and observed, as she put it in her pocket:

"If you will show me what you want done, I shall be happy to oblige you." "Read
your letter first, Emma, it may be a matter of business, and you should never
delay business—your brother always says, 'do what is to be done directly, and do
it yourself.'" Emma silently drew forth the letter, and breaking the seal read
the following words:

"My dear Miss Watson,

"I am sorry to trouble you with any unpleasant       subjects, but I cannot
forbear mentioning a       circumstance which nearly concerns your family; and
when you know the particulars, you can judge for       yourself. Mr. Tom
Musgrove, whom I had, as you know,       reason to suppose engaged to one of
your sisters, is       now in town, and has not only been for some time past
paying great attention to a young lady of fortune, a       friend of my own,
but, as I understand, has denied all       engagement to Miss Watson, spoken
very disparagingly       of her, and even shewn letters written by her under
the impression that such an engagement existed. Not       knowing precisely how
affairs stood between your       sister and Mr. M., I dare not interfere, lest
by       revealing what she may perhaps wish concealed, I       should injure
her, and mortify you. I shall not,       however, feel justified in preserving
silence much       longer, unless I am positively assured that all
engagement is at an end between them. If she has       released him from the
promise to which we both are       witnesses, it may be important to preserve
silence on       its previous existence, but if, as I cannot help
suspecting, he has only released himself, has deceived       or deserted her, I
cannot allow my friend to be misled       by him, and must insist on having his
conduct cleared       up and set in a proper light. I am sorry to be obliged
to trouble you, as I feel convinced that whether       secretly deceiving,
openly deserting your sister, he       is certainly using her extremely ill: you
know I never       had a good opinion of his character. I am over-whelmed
with gaiety, and look back with a feeling of regret to       the tranquil hours
at Osborne Castle. "Anxiously expecting your answer,

"I remain, dear Miss Watson,

"Your sincere friend,

"ROSA OSBORNE." "P.S. Mr. Musgrove's address is, 75, Bond-street.—My
brother and Sir William desire all sorts of proper       messages to you; have
you seen the Howards lately?" Whilst Emma was reading these words, Jane was
standing near her, playing with the sheet of paper in which it had been
enveloped, and anxiously watching Emma's countenance to see the effect produced
by the communication. She saw enough to discover that the emotion occasioned by
the contents was not of a pleasurable nature. It was something which required
deliberation and consideration. Mrs. Watson grew impatient. "Well, what is it?"
cried she. "You sit there pondering and pondering as if it were a dispatch from
the king himself; tell me what your difficulty is, and I will help you!" "I
think," said Emma, hesitating and embarrassed, "I think I must speak to my
brother about this, and, perhaps, I had better—I mean, he would like me to
consult him _first_, before speaking even to you!" "Tell me what it is," said
Mrs. Watson, burning with curiosity, "let _me_ know all about it, and I can tell
you if it is necessary to consult him first!" "But if I tell you now, I cannot
apply first to him," remonstrated Emma, "and so that will not do." "Oh, but you
need not tell him that you told me," said Jane; "and as I am his wife, I should
be sure to know it eventually." "Can I not go to him at once?" said Emma,
rising; "it would be much better, and as it must be done, the sooner I get over
it the better." "Is it anything you are afraid of telling him then?" enquired
Mrs. Watson, still more eagerly, as she followed Emma from the room. "Is it
about yourself? or Miss Osborne? oh, I know—it is for Mr. Watson to draw the
marriage settlements—they say she is going to be married to Sir William Gordon,
is that true? or is it an offer from Lord Osborne, I wonder? how obstinate the
child is; and how fast she runs, I must make haste, or I shall lose some of it."
CHAPTER VIII. Mrs. Watson overtook Emma at the door of the private room, where
so many important matters were settled by her husband, in time to hear an
impatient "Come in," and to enter in her company. Robert was pacing up and down
the room, and looked excessively surprised to see the intruders. "What in the
name of all that's troublesome brings you here to-day?" was his courteous
salutation to his wife and sister. "I wished to show you this letter, brother,"
said Emma, very humbly, with Miss Osborne's letter in her hand; "and as it
seemed to me, no time should be lost in acting on it, I have ventured to
intrude—"

Robert did not allow her to finish her sentence, but took the paper from her
hand, and read it deliberately and attentively through. Anything in the shape of
business received his strictest attention, or he would never have occupied the
position which he now held. When he came to the conclusion, he looked up, and
observed,

"I don't see that Jane has anything to do with this, and shall therefore beg she
will leave the room—directly," added he, seeing that his wife hesitated. She
knew the tone, and was obliged to withdraw; but it was with a mental
determination to plague her husband for a resolution so contrary to her wishes,
though she could not settle whether the punishment should consist of boiling a
leg of mutton, omitting his favorite pudding, or spoiling his chocolate. Whilst
she was arranging her plans for vengeance, her husband was holding council high
on the subject of this letter. How came Miss Osborne to know anything about it?
what did she mean by saying that she and Emma were witnesses to the engagement?
was that really the case? why had Margaret never alluded to it? Emma explained
as briefly as possible when and how they two had overheard the whole
conversation. Robert rubbed his hands with inexpressible glee. "He's caught
then, fairly caught—that is good—we shall soon bring him to terms now: capital,
to think of your eavesdropping with so much effect; but why did you never
mention this before, child, when you heard me lamenting the want of witnesses?"
Emma asserted that she was only waiting to consult Miss Osborne on the subject,
for as they had been mutually pledged to secrecy, she could not divulge it
without her agreeing to it. Robert was in an ecstasy of hope and enjoyment; he
saw a brilliant perspective of litigation, an action for breach of promise of
marriage to be conducted, with all the _éclat_ that could be given to such a
proceeding, and damages given to his sister which would enable her to marry
decently out of hand. This was delightful. His first step he determined should
be a letter from himself to the culprit, claiming his promise to Margaret, but
without alluding to the witnesses to be produced, and he instructed Emma to
write to Miss Osborne, and tell her that her sister had never released Tom from
his engagement, but was still acting on the belief that it existed, and that
therefore she, Miss Osborne, was at liberty to inform her friend—indeed had
better do so at once—that Mr. Musgrove was acting an equivocal part in paying
attention to any other woman, as his hand was positively pledged to Miss
Margaret Watson. This assurance from a party whom he naturally supposed
unacquainted with the fact would alarm Tom, and it was possible, but Robert did
not depend on it, that it might bring some offer of a compromise. Emma enquired
what would be the result if, as was very probable, Mr. Musgrove should deny the
engagement altogether, and trusting to there being no witnesses, refuse to
fulfil it. Robert assured her that in that case he should have the means of
compelling him either to fulfil the contract or pay large damages; he should not
have a moment's hesitation in commencing an action against him, and with Miss
Osborne and Emma to support Margaret's evidence there was no doubt of the
result. She was horrified to hear what was impending over her, and enquired, in
a tone of something between fright and incredulity, whether he really
contemplated forcing Miss Osborne to appeal in a public court of justice. "Why
should she not?" was his cool answer; "she is as capable of giving evidence, I
presume, as any other woman, and her appearance will give a great publicity to
the proceeding." "But do you think she will like it?" suggested poor Emma,
trembling for her own share of the trial as much as for her friend's. "I shall
not trouble my head about that—I will have her subpœned as a witness, and she
must come, whether she likes it or not." Emma was silent, but looked extremely
uneasy. Her brother observed her distressed appearance, and after thinking a few
minutes, addressed her. "As you know so much of the Osbornes, Emma, and it
really appears that you can keep a secret, which considering your age and sex is
rather remarkable, I will tell you my whole plan, and we will see whether your
wit can help me carry it out. Look here—suppose Tom Musgrove refuses all
acknowledgment of the engagement, I threaten an action, call on you and Miss
Osborne as witnesses; if it really comes before a jury she will be compelled to
appear; but say she dislikes it—is too fine or too delicate—well let her family
use their influence with Musgrove to induce a marriage, and they may succeed. By
threatening to make his perfidy public, by menacing him with the indignation of
the family, if he compels us to resort to such extremities—possibly even by the
judicious application of family interests to procure him some situation, some
sinecure appointment, or in many similar ways, the Osbornes may work upon his
feelings in a way which we could never do. Meantime say nothing; I will explain
enough to Margaret, and you have only to answer all enquiries by the assurance
that you are not allowed by me to mention the matter. Go now." Emma would gladly
have retreated to her own room, but Jane was too sharp for her. "What an immense
time you have been," cried she impatiently clutching hold of Emma's shoulder; "I
thought you would never come out; and I could not hear a word you said. Now tell
me all about it." Emma assured her that she dared not—her brother had so
strictly forbidden all allusion to the subject; she really was not at liberty to
mention a single word. "Well really that's great impertinence of Mr. Watson—I'll
give it him well for that: what can it signify whether I know it or not—I dare
say a mighty matter to make so much fuss about—any affair you are concerned in
must be so very important: no, don't go up-stairs, I want you in the parlour,
child." Emma reluctantly returned to the parlour. Elizabeth and Margaret were
both there; but before Jane had time to expatiate upon the injustice and tyranny
of her husband in denying her knowledge which did not concern her, a morning
visitor was announced. The lady who entered was a Mrs. Turner, a widow, with an
unfashionable black dress, a good-humoured but unmeaning face, and a cheerful
manner. "Well, Mrs. Watson," cried she, "here you are, amiable and industrious
as ever; I am sure your husband must thank his lucky stars which gave him such a
wife—I always consider you quite as the pattern for all housekeepers and married
ladies. And such a cheerful party as I find—who are these sweet girls?—charming
creatures I have no doubt." "Mr. Watson's sisters," said Jane laconically. "Ah I
remember—poor things, orphans—Miss Margaret I beg your pardon, I ought to have
known you—I believe it was the black gown deceived me—elegant—black always looks
well—and Miss Margaret's slender figure sets it off to advantage. What a sweet
pretty face," (eyeing Emma) "really you must be quite proud of your new sisters,
Mrs. Watson. Now I don't know anything pleasanter than a pretty face—it's so
cheerful—all three so remarkably good-looking too—they are not the least like
you, Mrs. Watson." Mrs. Watson made no other answer than an enquiry for Mrs.
Turner's son-in-law—Mr. Millar. "George, oh, he's charming, thank you," replied
the merry lady, who seemed to view everything _couleur de rose_, "up to his
elbows in hops and malt—I often tell him, it's well if he be never smothered
with his business. I do believe it's the most flourishing one in the town. Those
little darlings, his children—you cannot think what angels they are; but they do
want a mother sadly; now, Mrs. Watson—you could not recommend one, could you?"
looking slyly at the three young ladies; "any nice, steady, sensible young woman
of six or seven and twenty—George need not look out for a fortune, thank
Heaven—he's a plenty, and to spare, of his own—but a nice, good-humoured wife,
who would not thwart him, or vex his children—that's what he wants." "Well,"
cried Mrs. Watson, with delight, "let him come here; I dare say either of the
girls would not say him nay—they have no money, so they must take what they can
get. It does not do for such to be too nice; not but what even the nicest might
well be satisfied with George Millar." "Aye, indeed, well they might. Do you
know I am at him, day and night, to marry again; and he always says I must chose
him a wife, for he has not time to see for himself. Now I'll make him come here
to-night, and see what he'll say." "Do so pray," said Jane, "we are expecting a
few friends to dinner and tea; let him come in the evening when his business is
over; but don't say a word of our plans, let him be taken by surprise, you
know." "Well," exclaimed Elizabeth, "I like your plan amazingly, and I give you
fair warning, Mrs. Turner, that I shall do my utmost to please your son-in-law,
and take the situation of Mrs. Millar. I am convinced he is a most delightful
man, and well worth looking after." "Well done my dear," cried Mrs. Turner, "I
like honesty and candour of all things, and am delighted to find you are not too
proud to own that you, like all other girls, want to be married. Some pretend to
deny it; but it makes no difference, I know what they think secretly, and see
through them all the same." "We will not try to trifle with such penetration,"
said Elizabeth, laughing—"ask my sisters if they agree to your assertion." "Oh,
I know Miss Margaret does," cried Mrs. Turner; "she is longing to be married at
this moment—and I could point out the gentleman too—my George has no chance with
her." Margaret giggled, and twisted about. "Only think of my affairs becoming so
public, as my wishes to be known like that. You are a dangerous person, I know
of old, Mrs. Turner!" "Well, I must be going—I have to call on the Greenes this
morning—sweet girls, the Greenes, ain't they—amazingly clever—very plain
though—well, well, one can't have everything; do you know, I plague George about
being in love with Ann Greene, and he cannot bear the sight of her in
consequence—it is such fun." "I know very little of the Greenes," observed Mrs.
Watson, grandly, "they are not in our set. I dare say soap-boiling is a very
good trade; but I have a fancy it must soil the fingers. Mr. Millar will not
meet the Greenes here at all." Mrs. Turner did not stay to defend the Greenes
from the aspersions cast on them by the amiable Mrs. Watson, but hurried away to
praise them to themselves, certain that in this case her eulogy would be well
received. Hardly had she left the room, when Robert entered, with an open letter
in his hand, and enquired of Emma, if she had written as he desired her to do.
Emma acknowledged that she had not. "Then do it directly," said he, "and learn
never to delay letters of business—always do what you have to do at once—it is
idle, and worse to put it off." Emma did not attempt to offer any excuse, but
was preparing to leave the room to obey, when Jane stopped her, and recommended
her remaining where she was to write; there were plenty of paper, pens, and ink
in the room, and there could not be the smallest occasion for leaving the
parlour. She could not very well avoid yielding to this request, which, however,
she suspected strongly was only made in hopes of obtaining some information
relative to the letter in question. Meanwhile, Robert, going up to Margaret,
showed her the letter he held in his hand, and desired her to read it. "Oh, how
very good of you," cried Margaret, when she had run through the contents, "how
kind of you to take it up so warmly; you who never believed that what I said was
true; how glad I am that you have come round at last to believe my assertions;
now, I trust, Tom will relent, and my blighted affections will once more revive
and flourish!" "Don't talk to me of blighted affections," replied her brother,
impatiently; "don't bother me with such nonsense; do learn, if you can, to think
of matters of business _as_ business; and in an affair of this kind, try to
speak in a rational, sensible way. Do you think Musgrove will yield to this
representation?" "Oh, no doubt of it," said Margaret, "at least, I dare say he
will; but suppose he should not, what will you do then?" fixed

"It appears," replied Robert, "that both Emma and Miss Osborne heard what passed
between you, and as, in that case, they can both appear as witnesses for you, I
have no doubt of getting a verdict in your favour, and very considerable damages
from any jury in the county." Margaret sat staring at her brother in amazement,
and then repeated,

"Miss Osborne and Emma, are you sure," and turning to Emma, she exclaimed,
"Where were you then, I should like to know." "We were concealed from your
sight," replied her sister, "by some orange trees, and thus we heard all you
said without intending it." "Listening were you—very pretty indeed—honorable
conduct—from you too, who make such a fuss about propriety and honesty, and all
that; but, after all, you are no better than your neighbours, it seems," said
she, spitefully. "I am sure I am very sorry," said Emma, with tears in her eyes,
"if I have done anything to vex you; but indeed, though it may seem strange, I
really could not help it." "Oh no, of course not!" pursued Margaret, tossing her
head back; "people never can help doing any thing which happens to suit their
fancy—however, before I venture to talk another time, I will take care and
ascertain if you are in the room or not—such meanness listening!" "It appears
very strange to me," cried Mrs. Watson, anxious to understand it all; "that we
should suddenly hear that Emma knew all about it, when Margaret was so long
wishing to have some evidence to prove her words; why did not Emma say so
sooner, then?" "And it seems still more extraordinary to me," interposed
Elizabeth, "that Margaret should be so angry when she thus, unexpectedly, finds
what she wishes for. Emma told me of this long ago, and told me that Miss
Osborne had induced her to be silent on the subject for several reasons; but I
know, from what she told me then, it was quite accidental, and could not be
avoided, their overhearing Tom's conversation with you, Margaret." "And it
appears strangest of all to me," observed Robert, contemptuously, "that women
never can keep to the point on any subject, but must start off on twenty
different branches, which have nothing to do with the end in view. What does it
signify to you, Margaret, when, how, or why your conversation was
overheard—when, on the fact of its being so, depends your chance of getting two
or three thousand pounds in your pocket? What does it matter as to Emma's motive
for listening, so long as she did listen to such good purpose?" Margaret pouted
and replied only by some indistinct murmurs. Her brother then went on to explain
to her the circumstance of Miss Osborne's interposition—shewing her, greatly to
Emma's annoyance, the letter that morning received from London, and informing
her of what he had desired might be written in answer. Margaret's feelings on
the occasion, formed a most comic mixture of pleasure and indignation. She was
excessively gratified at being talked about, and made the subject of letters to
and from Miss Osborne; and the notion of being plaintiff in an action at law,
seemed to have almost as great a charm for her imagination, as being married;
but then, she was sorely mortified at the information that Tom Musgrove's
infidelity was so open and evident; she was vexed, bitterly vexed, at the idea
of a rival; and she could hardly console herself for such an indignity, by the
expectation of the damages which were to be awarded her. She looked very foolish
and very spiteful when her sister-in-law made some ill-natured observations
about overrating the powers of her own charms; and still more so when Robert
added:

"That he had no doubt the fellow was drunk when he made the offer, but it did
not matter if he was." Emma was very glad when she had finished her letter, and
was able to escape from the subject by quitting the house for a walk with
Elizabeth. Jane had some errands for them in the town; but, as soon as they were
fulfilled, they were able to turn their steps towards the country, and escaping
into green fields and pleasant lanes, refresh their eyes and their tempers by
watching for the first appearance of the spring flowers. Such a stroll was a
real treat to Emma, and gave her strength to endure the numberless petty
annoyances which Mrs. Watson heaped on her. She felt, whilst she could still
enjoy a few hours of quiet converse with her sister—still breathe the fresh air
of Heaven, and seek the simple, but unalloyed, satisfaction, to be derived from
contemplating the works of Providence, that she had still blessings to be
thankful for; that her situation, with all its drawbacks, ought still to call
forth feelings of gratitude, when compared with the misfortunes of others of her
fellow beings; and that it became her to be ready to acknowledge this, lest she
should be taught to prize the comforts she still enjoyed by their withdrawal.
With these sentiments in her heart, she strove to act upon them; and when
Elizabeth would have turned the conversation, to past times, and reverted to Mr.
Howard and his sister, she had the strength of mind to turn away from the
dangerous pleasure, and pursue some other topic. They stayed out rather
late—that is to say, they were not in the house till rather more than half past
four, and they were to dine at five. They met their sister-in-law on the stairs
in a great bustle. "Oh dear! I have been in such a worry for you, Emma," cried
she, "how very tiresome that you should be so late; I want Janetta dressed and
her hair curled, and Betsy has not time to attend to it, because she has to
dress my head—and here have I been waiting and waiting whilst you have been
wandering over the country amusing yourselves without the least regard to me or
my comfort." "I am sorry to have put you to any inconvenience, but I had not the
least idea you wanted me," replied Emma, "what can I do for you now?" The wrath
of any one but Mrs. Watson, must have been disarmed and pacified by Emma's good-
tempered answer, and the sweetness of her manner, but Jane's was a disposition
which yielded only if violently opposed, but became every hour more encroaching
when given way to. To Elizabeth, who boldly spoke her mind on all occasions, she
was far more submissive—but over Emma she could tyrannise without fear of a rude
or thoughtless retort, a rebellious action, or even a discontented look;
consequently, Emma was now dispatched to the nursery to perform the office of
maid to her little niece, whilst the woman, whose business it was to attend to
this matter, was occupied in arranging her mistress's toilette. At length, Mrs.
Watson was ready, and sweeping into the nursery with as much finery as her
mourning would allow her to display, she took away her little girl, and allowed
Emma time to arrange her own dress for dinner. On descending to the drawing-room
she found her sister-in-law engaged in talking and listening eagerly to the
important gentleman from the country, for whose sake the dinner party had been
arranged. He was a broad-faced, portly man, who filled up the arm-chair in which
he was seated, with perfect accuracy of adjustment, and whose countenance seemed
to Emma to express a sort of hungry tolerance of Mrs. Watson's attentions.
Whenever the door opened, and admitted with each fresh arrival a strong scent of
dinner from the kitchen, he seemed to imbibe the odour with peculiar
satisfaction, and after inhaling sundry times the teeming atmosphere, heaved a
sigh indicative of anticipation and comfortable assurance for the future. The
fluttering of Mrs. Watson's trimmings, the waving of her ringlets, and the
affected little bursts of merriment in which she indulged for his amusement,
hardly discomposed him at all, so intent was he on the forthcoming dinner.
Robert Watson was standing over the fire talking to a gloomy, dark-browed young
man, a stranger to Emma, who seemed to consider that in conferring the favor of
his bodily presence on the Watsons, he was doing them so great an honor, that
there was no occasion for him to trouble himself with any further efforts, and
that the absence of mind in which he ostentatiously indulged, was due to his own
dignity, impaired, or at least endangered by the situation in which he had
suffered himself to be placed. There was also a thin, white-faced individual,
something between a man and a boy, who was chattering to Margaret with all the
ease and volubility of an old acquaintance. Emma remembered that she had heard
Jane and Margaret speaking of a Mr. Alfred Freemantle, whose family were "quite
genteel country people," as being articled to Mr. Watson, and concluded that the
individual thus mentioned was before her. Just as she had settled this point in
her own mind, and seated herself near Elizabeth, she perceived the young man
make a prodigious theatrical start, and heard him exclaim in a tone which could
not be called low:

"For heaven's sake who is that exquisitely beautiful creature?" "It's only
Emma—my sister Emma," said Margaret evidently vexed, "do you think her so very
pretty? well I don't think I should call her so." "She blushes divinely," cried
he, fixing his eyes on her, "what a glorious complexion—and her name is
Emma—sweet Emma." Emma was half amused, but almost angry at his impertinence;
had he been a little older, her anger would have been more decided, but he
seemed such a mere boy, that she attributed his offensive behaviour to youthful
ignorance; a charitable construction for which he would certainly not have
thanked her. Having stared at her for some minutes with unwavering perseverance,
he rose, and crossing the room, let himself drop into a chair close by her, with
a weight and impetus quite astonishing to Emma, when she considered the slight
figure which produced such a concussion. The next moment he opened a
conversation with her by saying:

"I have just experienced a most delicious sensation, Miss Emma Watson, the sight
of you has exactly recalled the image of a cousin of mine, from whom unfortunate
circumstances have so imperatively separated me. Poor girl—you have no idea how
lovely she was." "Indeed," was Emma's reply, quite willing to admit the truth of
this assertion, and equally ready to let the subject rest; but he had no
intention of the sort. "It is charming to be reminded of an absent friend,
delightful—exquisite—are you likely to make a long stay at Croydon, Miss Emma
Watson?" "It is uncertain," replied Emma. "And you are actually living in the
same house in which I spend the greater part of my weary days, and nothing but
these envious walls conceals you from my sight. Is not that hard?" "Really no,"
replied Emma, unable to control a smile at the absurdity of his manner, "I
cannot say I think so at all." "You don't—what a monstrous bore Mrs. Watson is—I
am sure you will agree to that." "She is my sister-in-law," said Emma. "Yes, I
know, but that's the very reason you should hate her—I detest mine." "And you
consider that an infallible rule, of course, since you suggest it to me." "I am
certain," said the young man, "that our sympathies are strong: there is
something in the turn of your head, the sparkle of your eye, the formation of
your upper lip, that betokens decided participation in the feelings which
corruscate, burn, and almost consume your humble servant." "What a fine day it
has been," observed Emma, purposely chosing the most common-place subject in
reply to his rhapsody. He looked astonished and perplexed, then said slowly:

"I fear after all we are not kindred souls—do you love music?" "Pretty well,"
replied Emma, determined to keep down to the most common-place level in her
conversation. He cast up his eyes, and turned away for a moment, throwing
himself back in his chair, and elevating his chin in the air, whilst he
carefully combed his hair with his fingers. Presently, however, he returned
again to the attack. "I suspect you are funny." "I beg your pardon," said Emma,
looking perplexed in her turn. "I say I suspect you are laughing at me all this
time." "Oh," said she. At this moment dinner was announced, and whilst the fat
gentleman was slowly emerging from his chair to accompany Mrs. Watson to the
dining parlour, Emma's new acquaintance was pouring out a voluble strain of
nonsense in her ear. "To think of reasonable and reasoning creatures lowering
themselves to an equality with the beasts of the field, by indulging in what is
falsely called the pleasures of the table—to think of their voluntarily
assembling only to eat; degrading their intellects by sitting down to spend two
hours over roast mutton or apple pie—really it is inconceivable—allow me to
conduct you, and your fair sister Margaret to the dinner-table. Sweetest Miss
Margaret," presenting her his hand as he spoke, "my felicity is beyond
expression—I can only equal my situation between you two, to love amongst the
roses." At the dinner-table Mrs. Watson appeared in all her glory. The dinner
was really good, and as the favoured guest inhaled the odour of the soup, it was
evident from the complacent expression which stole over his features, that he
was well satisfied with the prospect now before him. Mrs. Watson's tactics were
suited to the occasion; she devoted her attention to helping him to the best
things on the table—the most dainty morsel, the epicure's piece, was in every
case heaped on his plate. It would have been amusing to an observer to watch the
struggle which in some cases occurred between Robert's self-interest and self-
love. His appetite was at variance with his policy; it was difficult for him to
yield the precedence at his own table to the love of good eating exhibited by
another. To see his wife thus liberally disposed to another man was a severe
blow, and whilst he acknowledged the justice, prudence and propriety of thus
acting, it went to his heart to behold it. Her attentions, her flattery, her
winning smiles she was welcome to indulge him with, but the dainty morsel from
the cod's head—the largest share from the sweet-bread fricassee, the liver-wing
of the spring chicken, these he could not resign without a sigh. Mr. Alfred
Freemantle, however, did not leave Emma much leisure to make remarks; he had
seated himself by her side at table, and was paying her an infinite number of
what he considered delicate attentions; calling incessantly to the footman to
bring her vegetables—urging her to try every dish on the table, helping her to
salt, and filling her glass with wine to the very brim, as he asserted all
ladies liked bumpers; at the same time pouring into her ears the most common-
place nonsense about his devotion to the fair sex, his zeal in performing his
_devoirs_, and sundry other observations of the sort. Emma gave him no
encouragement, but he did not require any; perfectly satisfied with his own
charms, and accustomed to consider himself as superior to his ordinary
companions, he was well convinced that her shyness, not her dissatisfaction,
kept her silent, and never for a moment supposed she could be otherwise than
charmed with his conversation and company. The dinner appeared to her,
consequently, very dull, but at last the moment of release came; her sister-in-
law gave the signal for departure, and the four ladies returned to the drawing-
room. Here they were no sooner assembled than Margaret commenced a violent
attack on Emma for her scandalous flirtation with Mr. Freemantle. He used to be
a particular admirer of Margaret's, and she could not with patience resign his
admiration to another. In fact she had not strength of mind to see with
composure any woman engross the attention of a man with whom she was acquainted,
all whose words and looks of admiration she wished to appropriate to herself;
for having been for a couple of winters the reigning belle of her small
neighbourhood, she still fancied her charms supreme, and was quite insensible of
the fact, obvious to every one else, that she was now only exhibiting the
remains of former beauty. Her bloom had been of short duration; she was too
fretful to preserve the plumpness necessary to show her complexion to advantage,
and she early lost the glow and the fairness which had formed her greatest
charm. Alfred Freemantle was not now to be won by all her wiles; Emma's newer
face, and the sort of wondering indifference with which she heard his
compliments, and his ready-prepared jokes formed an irresistible charm to him;
he declared her freshness was _piquant_, her innocence was exquisite, that it
was delicious to meet with a pretty girl so perfectly unhacknied in the ways of
the world; little suspecting that the simple manner which he took for ignorance
of life resulted entirely from her just appreciation of his little talent, and
the total want of interest excited by such flattery as he was capable of
administering. But she could make no impression on Margaret by declarations of
indifference, or assertions that she had thought him decidedly disagreeable. Her
sister considered such words as a mere subterfuge, and would not believe that
Mr. Alfred Freemantle was a sort of person to slight one girl for another, a
stranger, without some special encouragement to do so. Jane took up Margaret's
cause, as she was always delighted to have an opportunity of finding fault with
Emma, of whom she felt a decided jealousy, and a long and serious lecture was
the consequence, which was only interrupted by the arrival of some of the
evening visitors. The reproaches which were showered on Emma were, it is true,
parried in some degree by Elizabeth, who although greatly respecting her sister-
in-law, did not feel so much afraid of her as to refrain on that account from
expressing her opinion. She vigorously defended Emma to the best of her
abilities, and there was no saying how long the dispute might have been carried
on but for the arrival of Mr. George Millar and a young lady, his half sister,
who accompanied him. Emma was obliged, as well as she could, to conceal the
tears which were swimming in her eyes and anxious to avoid any further
animadversions, she seated herself as far as possible from the gentleman, and
occupied herself with some work which she had undertaken for Mrs. Watson. She
could not, however, restrain her attention which was speedily engaged by the
young lady, whom she now saw for the first time. Annie Millar was not regularly
pretty, but there was an expression of liveliness and spirit in her face, which
would have won the palm from twenty professed beauties. Her manners suited her
face exactly; lively, arch, and yet perfectly unaffected, she did not seem to
know what constraint and fear were. She said whatever came into her head; but
that head was so overflowing with good-humour and kindness that there was no
room for malice or ill-will to abide there. "Well, Mrs. Watson," cried she, "as
I found you had invited my brother for this evening, I have invited myself; I
cannot imagine why you left _me_ out; but feeling certain you would be delighted
to see me, I slipped on my second best gown, and came. Now I expect you to make
me a civil speech in reply." She was very certain of having a civil speech made.
Mr. George Millar was a man of too much consequence amongst his own set, for his
sister to be slighted in any degree. His fortune was large, and his disposition
liberal; he was a widower, and he was very fond of his sister; Annie, therefore,
was certain of compliments and welcomes, and was precisely the person to be
received by Mrs. Watson with extreme rapture. "I did so want to be acquainted
with your other sisters," added Miss Millar, "that I think I should have
ventured here had I been even certain you would scold instead of caressing me; I
always envy every one who is blessed with a sister, and think it must be the
most delightful relationship in the world." "And I dare say your brother agrees
with you," said Mrs. Watson, smiling graciously. "Do you, George?" cried the
young lady; "no, no, he considers me, without exception, the most troublesome of
all his encumbrances; a charge which he is always trying to get rid of, by
inducing some one else to undertake it. There is no telling you the pains he is
at to throw the burden on some other unhappy man." Her brother shook his head at
his young sister, who only smiled in reply, and continued—

"Hitherto I have defeated his arts, and preserved myself from the snare; how
long such good luck may continue to attend me I cannot tell." "Well, Miss
Millar, there's a good opportunity to-night," said Mrs. Watson, "for we have,
amongst our visitors, a young and single man, who, I believe, is quite ready for
any one who takes the trouble of catching him; so if you think him worth the
trouble—"

"He must be very different from any man I ever saw yet," interrupted Annie. "Do
you mean your charming young clerk, Mr. Alfred Frivolous, as I call him." "Oh,
dear, no," cried Mrs. Watson; "a very different person—he is very well off—has
large property in Suffolk—quite a grand estate there—with no near connections—no
sisters to be in your way—a most beautiful house—respectable family—I believe
quite one of the first families in the county—and bears a high character." "And
may I ask the name of this desirable individual?" enquired Miss Millar, assuming
an appearance of intense interest. "Grant, Mr. Henry Grant—I am sure you will be
charmed with him." "Describe him—I am rather particular as to appearance." "Why,
I cannot say that he is absolutely handsome, but very dark—dark and
genteel—quite genteel, I assure you." "Lively?" enquired Annie. "Perhaps he may
be—but I do not know that I have heard him speak." "Charming!" cried Annie;
"dine with you, and yet not address you—his must be the very refinement of good
manners—the very cream of gentility indeed—tell me some more about this
delightful personage. Does he like ladies?" "I cannot say—but though he seems
rather shy of them now, depend upon it, he is all the easier caught." "Ay, by
those who try; I can fancy that certainly—I really must exert myself—your
fascinating description quite rouses my energies." "And I am sure if you do set
about it, your success is certain," continued Mrs. Watson. "Thank you, my dear
Madam, for your encouraging opinion. I fear you rate my powers too highly,"
laughed Annie, bowing with mock ceremony—"a young and inexperienced girl like
me, cannot pretend to anything so wonderful as the captivation of a dark Mr.
Grant, with a large estate, and a contempt for women—you must not expect such a
triumph for me." "Indeed, I am certain you will succeed to admiration," cried
Mrs. Watson, eagerly. "Show me how to begin then," pursued Annie. "Teach me the
first step." "I should recommend your catching his eye in some striking
attitude—as I dare say he is fond of paintings—something very elegant to attract
him at once," replied the married lady quite sincerely. "Indeed—let me
practice," cried Miss Millar, placing herself in an affected attitude in an arm-
chair. "Will this do—or this—do I look sufficiently captivating now? which
becomes me most, languor or liveliness." "You, I see, are determined to make
game of the whole thing," said Mrs. Watson. "Will nothing induce you to think
well of a single man? are you so devoted a follower of celibacy yourself? ah,
you are quite right—liberty, charming liberty! no one knows its value till, like
me, they have sacrificed it. Ah, I say you are quite right—only, as you are so
uncommonly fascinating, I cannot wonder if others should seek to win you." "You
are far too complimentary, Mrs. Watson," said the young lady, with affected
gravity, and rising from her chair, she walked up to Emma, and commenced an
acquaintance with her by admiring her work. Emma was almost afraid to speak to
her, lest the doing so should excite her sister-in-law's wrath again; but Annie
Millar had taken a fancy to her face, and was not to be repulsed. Her lively
chat soon drew off her companion's thoughts from the disagreeable circumstances
which had previously occurred, and half an hour passed pleasantly. Meantime Mrs.
Watson, with judicious precaution, had set Elizabeth down to back-gammon with
George Millar, and guessing from the lively conversation carried on amidst the
quick rattle of the dice, that all was going right there, she left them to
improve their acquaintance in peace. Very soon after this, the gentlemen
strolled into the room—Mr. Grant first, as if anxious to make the more
impression by his appearance. He looked round the room—and, as if satisfied by
this survey that there was no one sufficiently attractive to induce him to
engage in the labour of conversation, he walked away and took refuge in a small
inner apartment, which opened from the drawing-room, and which was lighted by a
single lamp. Miss Millar shrugged her shoulders slightly and gave Emma an
expressive look, but had no time for words, as they were at that moment joined
by Margaret and Mr. Freemantle. The latter made Annie a flourishing bow whilst
exclaiming:

"Miss Millar, by all that is fair and felicitous, this is an unexpected
pleasure." _She_ did not seem to find it so; but looked cold and careless,
whilst she made him as slight a return for his salutation as possible. "Would
that I possessed an artist's pencil to pourtray the group before me," continued
the young man, with affected rapture. "The graces exactly—it does, indeed,
deserve to be commemorated on canvas or in marble. At all events, it is for ever
impressed on the tablet of my heart." Margaret giggled—Emma looked immoveably
grave, whilst Annie smiled scornfully and said:

"What is that, Mr. Freemantle? Pray repeat that last sentence again, that I may
commit it to memory." It certainly is a thing very repulsive to human nature to
repeat a sentence twice over—especially if it is a flourishing speech which only
answers when thrown off hand at once. Annie was perfectly aware that she could
not have found a more effectual way of tormenting Mr. Freemantle; he looked very
silly, and replied in a qualifying tone,

"I only said—I only meant, that I should never forget it!" "Oh!" replied the
young lady, "was _that_ all? I am sorry I gave you the trouble of repeating it."
"Miss Millar is too much accustomed to homage," continued he, "for my feeble
attempts to create any sensation in her mind. She despises such a humble
worshipper as her poor devoted servant." "I beg your pardon," returned she, "but
I never despise any thing _humble_—quite the contrary; and your overwhelming
complimentary speeches really raise such a variety of sensations, by which, I
suppose, you mean sentiments in my mind that I positively know not which way to
look." He really thought she meant to flatter him, and smiled in a way that
showed all his white teeth: yet, in conversing with Annie Millar, he always had
a lurking suspicion that she was laughing at him, and therefore, never felt
quite at his ease with her. "Do sing to us," said he presently, in an
insinuating tone; "it is such ecstasy to hear you sing! Pray indulge us with the
'Flowers of the Forest,' or one of your other charming Scotch melodies." Annie
compressed her lips and only bowed her head slightly in reply; then turning to
Emma, addressed her on the subject of music. Several other people joined the
party, and the tray with tea, pound cake and muffin, made its progress round the
room. Mr. Freemantle insisted on helping each lady "to the refreshing beverage,"
as he called it himself, and passed many small and rather pointless jokes on the
subject of the quantity of sugar they each required. "Sweets to the sweet," was
a favorite quotation of his, and one which he usually found well received. "Look
at that man," whispered Annie, pointing to Mr. Grant, apparently fast asleep on
the sofa; "should you not like to throw a cloak over his head, that his slumbers
may be undisturbed. Oh! I'll tell you what I will do—look now!" And stealing
quietly into the inner room, she softly, but effectually, extinguished the lamp;
and then returning closed the door, and placing a chair against it, seated
herself there, leaving Mr. Grant in complete darkness "to finish his nap," as
she said, "without risk of being roused by intrusive visitors." Mrs. Watson did
not see this manœuvre, but Margaret and Emma laughed quietly—whilst Alfred,
overcome by excessive amusement, dropped on a sofa, and rolled about in ecstasy.
George Millar, whose table was near, looked round. "What naughty trick are you
about now, Annie?" said he suspiciously. "I!" cried the young lady, with well
affected surprise; "who so quiet and well-behaved in this room as myself! Your
suspicions are derogatory to me, and disgraceful to yourself, George." And she
drew herself up in an attitude of offended dignity, crossing her hands in her
lap, and looking straight before her. George went on with his game; and Mr.
Alfred Freemantle, having recovered his composure, resumed his station by Miss
Millar's side. He enquired how long she intended to keep the poor man in the
dark? Miss Millar said he was in the black hole, and should continue there till
he asked to get out; for, indeed, his voice had never yet been heard, and she
was anxious to settle the question whether he was or was not, dumb. Presently
afterwards another of the party came up, and begged in the name of Mrs. Watson
that Miss Millar would favor them with a song. Annie possessed the rare talent
of singing without accompaniment; and without affectation, when requested by the
mistress of the house, she immediately complied, and warbled some beautiful old
ballads to the great delight of the company. She did not change her position,
but sat with her back to the door, when, in the midst of her second song, a loud
crash was heard in the little room where Mr. Grant was confined; this was
followed by vociferous and angry exclamations—at which every one started forward
with various intonations of surprise, wondering what was the matter. Miss Millar
did not cease singing or move her seat, but merely waved her hand to keep back
those who pressed on her, and finished her song with perfect self-possession.
When, however, a second part was suddenly taken to her performance by a strange
voice in the next room, every one was still more astonished, and insisted on
opening the door to discover the minstrel. When this was done, they saw Mr.
Grant leaning quietly against one chair, whilst another overthrown beside him
revealed the origin of the noise which had at first arrested them; he was in the
dark, of course, and seemed as he stood there so sleepy and dull, that they
could hardly imagine he was likewise the author of the melodious sounds they had
overheard. How he came there, why he was in the dark, and why he remained so,
were questions rapidly asked by such as knew him well enough to speak to him—but
he could give no explanation—he only knew that he had woke up and found himself
on the sofa in the dark, and thought he was in bed, until rolling off convinced
him that he was not; that he had fallen on the floor and made a noise he
supposed, and that he should be particularly glad to know whether Mrs. Watson
was in the constant habit of locking up her guests in the dark. Mrs. Watson came
forward full of apologies and regrets; she really could not imagine how it had
happened, or who had shut the door—it must have been so purely accidental; she
was excessively shocked, and particularly grieved, and she hoped it would never
occur again. Nothing could be more admirable than the air of perfect innocence
and ignorance which Annie Millar assumed through the whole scene; to have seen
her face no one would have imagined that she was in the smallest degree
inculpated in the false imprisonment which so afflicted poor Mr. Grant, and his
slumber had been far too real and unfeigned for him to have any idea of the
offender. Alfred Freemantle indeed drew all the suspicions on himself by his
immoderate laughter and the facetious observations which he made at the
discovery. Soon after this card-tables were formed, and the whole party sat down
to different games, which occupied the rest of the evening. Emma felt on parting
that she should like to know more of Annie Millar, and she found the next
morning that her wish was likely to be gratified, for the young lady called in
the course of the forenoon, and expressed the strongest desire to carry on an
acquaintance with both the sisters. Margaret, whom she had known previously, and
for whom she certainly entertained no very strong predilection, did not seem
inclined to join the party which Annie tried to arrange for a walk. The feelings
of jealousy and dislike which any pretty girl awakened in Margaret's mind were
peculiarly vivid towards Annie Millar, and she naturally shrank from bringing
herself much in contact with her. Mrs. Watson came into the room just as Miss
Millar was pressing the two other sisters to join her. As soon as she understood
how the case stood, being at that time peculiarly cross with Emma on account of
the admiration she had excited on the previous night, she interposed in this
way:

"Indeed, my dear Miss Millar, it is most kind of you to propose such a thing,
and I have no doubt but that the girls feel excessively obliged to you, but it
is impossible for Emma to accept it. Loth as I am to refuse any request of
yours, I cannot really accede to this one. Her duty must confine her within
doors this morning, she has calls upon her time which must not be set aside; she
must therefore forego the gratification you propose." Emma could not help
feeling rather astonished at hearing such a declaration, as she was quite
unaware of any particular duties which would compel her to remain in the house
that morning, and she was quite puzzled what to answer, when Annie Millar said
coaxingly,

"Why can you not put off your business till the afternoon, and go with us now?
What have you so very particular to do?" "I suppose my sister-in-law wants me,"
said she colouring and hesitating; "and of course, if so, it is necessary I
should stay." "Oh, I thought it might be some penance you were to
perform—something quite wonderful and romantic—but really I think you might
contrive to delay it, and accompany us to-day." "You are uncommonly kind," again
interrupted Mrs. Watson, "but there is so much of regularity and system
absolutely necessary where very young people are concerned, that whilst Emma
continues under _my_ care I cannot allow her to be running out at all
hours—though if any one could tempt me to relax in my rules it would be you I
assure you." The idea of a young woman of Emma's age not being at liberty to
walk or sit still according to her own fancy, appeared to Annie Millar very
extraordinary, and her wonder and annoyance were equally shared by Emma herself,
now hearing for the first time of rules that had never to her knowledge existed
at all; and feeling unable to contend against the assumption of authority which
her sister-in-law exercised over her proceedings, without the risk of causing an
actual quarrel with her on the subject, she began to look forward with
considerable dread, and to wonder what would come next. "Well," said Miss
Millar, "if it is not convenient for Miss Emma to walk now, will you tell me
when and at what hour I may look forward to that pleasure? Exceedingly as I
regret that your rules have disappointed me to-day, there is this comfort, that
they ensure my gratification at some other time, when I understand your
arrangements. At what time _does_ your sister take exercise?" Mrs. Watson was
completely caught, and excessively puzzled what to say. She hesitated for a
moment, and then observed,

"Well, as I do not like to thwart any plan of yours, I will try another day and
make arrangements to gratify you, my dear Miss Millar; in the meantime I
recommend you to take your walk to-day without any reference to Emma." Miss
Millar assented with a sigh, and she and Elizabeth set off together. CHAPTER IX.
"A very pretty thing indeed," exclaimed Mrs. Watson the moment the door closed
on them, "a very pretty and reasonable thing for a girl like you, Miss Emma,
coming into this house as a dependent, without a farthing in your pocket, or an
expectation of any kind, a very pretty thing I say for you to go flaunting and
jaunting about with all the best company in the town; I can tell you if this is
the way you go on, I shall take care and keep you up stairs when I have
visitors. I suppose you hope for an opportunity for carrying on your
acquaintance with Alfred Freemantle, or perhaps you are looking out for George
Millar himself. I see I must keep a firm hand over you, or I shall have some
disgraceful proceedings no doubt—a girl of your age to be so given up to
flirtation; it is quite shocking." "I do not know what I have done," replied
Emma, struggling with her feelings, "to deserve your reproaches; Miss Millar
asked me to walk with her, but how am I to blame for that?" "Don't answer me,
Miss, it is exceedingly impertinent and disrespectful, and I will not put up
with it from you. If you imagine because you have been acquainted with the
Osbornes and those grand folks, that you are to be mistress here, and do as you
like, you will find yourself excessively mistaken. I shall allow nothing of the
kind I assure you. Go to the nursery and take care of the little girl, and tell
the nurse-maid I want her to go on an errand for me. Try and make yourself
useful if you can, and show some gratitude for the extraordinary liberality of
your brother, in receiving a beggar like you into his house." Emma's spirit rose
and tempted her strongly to rebel; her first impulse was to go to her own room,
and shut herself in there; but she remembered that she was powerless, and
totally without effectual support in the house. Elizabeth, it was true, would
take her part, but she could only talk, not act, and as any contention must be
fruitless, ending inevitably in her own defeat, she wisely determined to submit
as quietly as possible, endeavouring to suppress her unavoidable feelings of
repugnance and mortification, and trying to remember that since she was actually
indebted to her brother for food and shelter, it became her to try by every
means in her power to lessen the unwelcome burden. She went accordingly as she
was desired to the nursery, and remained the rest of the morning in charge of
Janetta, whose encreasing attachment towards her kind, new aunt, really gave her
satisfaction, and made the time pass as pleasantly as was possible under such
circumstances. It distressed Elizabeth a good deal that Emma was not allowed to
walk with her, and as she could never disguise her feelings, she immediately
expressed this to her companion, adding that she was afraid Emma could never be
happy at Robert's house, as Jane seemed to have taken a decided dislike to her.
Annie exclaimed at the idea; she could not conceive it possible that any one
could dislike Emma; those delightful dark eyes, those elegant ringlets, and the
general grace of her appearance were in her opinion, so strongly indicative of
an amiable, lively and ingenuous mind, that nobody could take offence at her.
She was most enthusiastic in her praises, and Elizabeth felt gratified. This
conversation passed on their way to Miss Millar's home, where she wished to call
before starting for a country walk. She led her companion up at once to her own
apartments, and whilst she left her for a moment in her dressing-room, to make
some arrangements in private, Elizabeth, who to pass the time was looking at
some books on the table, was suddenly interrupted by the entrance of George
Millar. Her back being turned towards the door, the disguise of her bonnet and
cloak prevented his recognising her, and concluding it to be his sister, he
advanced hastily, and laying his hand on her shoulder he said:

"My dear Annie," when on her turning her face towards him, he of course
discovered his mistake. He looked excessively confused for a moment, but
Elizabeth laughed and took it so easily, that he soon recovered himself; she
explained to him why she was waiting there, and on hearing that they were
preparing to take a country walk, he declared that it was a holiday with him to-
day, and if they would not object he would accompany them. "Indeed," he added,
"I think it my duty to go with you, or that wicked sister of mine would
infallibly walk too far, and make herself ill. She is not to be trusted in the
country I assure you." Elizabeth did not feel inclined to raise any objection to
this arrangement, as she was quite as well satisfied with what she saw, as with
what she had heard of Mr. Millar, and did not feel disposed to retract her
previous declaration in his favor. Their walk proved as agreeable as she could
desire, and only left her the wish that she could have such another, and Emma
with her. They were out a considerable time, as George Millar proposed visiting
a small farm in which he took much pride, and which particularly delighted
Elizabeth. The arrangement of his dairy, the welfare of his lambs, the progress
of his poultry, were all subjects exactly to her taste, and she entered heart
and soul into the matter: her interest was far too sincere for him to be
otherwise than flattered by it, and he came to the conclusion that she was a
very delightful young woman, with more intelligence and a clearer head than any
town-bred young lady of his acquaintance. He determined to take her opinion and
advice on the subject of making cream cheeses, and resolved to rear a calf which
she had admired, instead of sending it to the butcher's the following week. They
were left a good deal to entertain each other, as Annie had chosen to unchain a
large Newfoundland dog kept at the farm, and gone off in company with it for a
gambol in the meadows. When every part of the establishment had been carefully
visited, and some of the hops in the nearest fields inspected, Elizabeth began
to think it was time for her to go home; but Annie had not yet rejoined them,
and having quite lost sight of her during the last hour, they had nothing to do
but to sit down, and wait patiently, if they could, for her appearance. The
house, which was only inhabited by a bailiff and his wife, was small but pretty,
and Elizabeth was eloquent in her praise of everything she saw, declaring with
perfect unreserve how very much she should prefer living in that charming little
house, to inhabiting the best mansion in the town. However, as time passed on,
and she remembered the distance she had to walk before reaching home, she began
to be rather uneasy, well knowing how extremely displeased Robert would be, if
they were late for dinner, as seemed probable. She confided her fears to George
Millar, confessing, with perfect candour, that she was very much afraid of her
brother's displeasure. He immediately suggested, as a remedy, that if their
return to Croydon was deferred later than she liked, she should give them the
pleasure of her company at their own family meal; assuring her that there was
not the smallest risk of Mrs. Turner's being angry, even if they kept her
waiting an hour. At the same time, he said that, for that very reason, he should
be sorry to do so, and he, therefore, hoped his sister would soon join them. At
length, after trying their patience till Elizabeth was surprised it did not
fail, the truant girl returned; and when her brother attempted to scold her, she
laughingly placed her hand over his mouth, and desired him to behave well before
her friends, at least; there would be time enough for him to find fault in the
course of the evening—he could keep awake on purpose. He called her, in reply, a
saucy girl, and threatened that another time he would not take her out walking
with him; whilst she persisted in asserting that it was she to whom he was
obliged for his excursion, and that she and Miss Watson could have done
perfectly well without him. They then commenced their return homewards, and
George told his sister to invite Miss Watson to dine with them on the plea of
being too late for her own dinner. Elizabeth expressed herself exceedingly ready
to comply, and it was so settled. When within half a mile of the town, they met
Alfred Freemantle, who was enjoying a stroll on his escape from the office.
Uninvited, he joined them, and placed himself by the side of Miss Millar, who
was leaning on her brother's arm. She put up her lip in a very contemptuous way,
and a moment after, changed to the other side, and found a refuge for herself
between Elizabeth and George, where she was safe from him. He saw the manœuvre,
and mortified at it, tried in his turn to mortify her, by enthusiastic praises
of the absent Emma. "What a sweet, charming girl she is—I don't know when I have
seen anything which pleased me better—those sparkling black eyes, and the clear
olive complexion, are perfection in my eyes; and her manners—so sweet—so
ladylike, she is quite bewitching." "You cannot praise her too much for me,"
replied Annie, quite sincerely; "I have been raving about her ever since last
night, and so long as you make use of suitable and judicious terms, you may
extol her beauty till you are worn out with fatigue." "I intend to write an
acrostic on her name," said he, in a most self-satisfied tone, "perhaps you did
not know it; but I am considered rather to shine in that way; I _have_ made
capital verses." "So you have told me, Mr. Freemantle, before; indeed, I
remember, on one occasion, your presenting me with some lines which, from the
style and manner, I should have judged impossible to be your own composition,
but for your affirmation of that fact; of course, therefore, I am aware of your
talents." "I am only too much flattered by your remembering the circumstance at
all, Miss Millar—you don't happen to recollect the lines, do you?" "No, indeed:
I remember the fact, because I know a cousin of mine who was staying with us at
the time, amused himself with cutting the paper into the smallest possible
morsels, and I only read the lines once in consequence." The utter carelessness
with which this assertion was made, would have been sufficient to overwhelm an
ordinarily modest man, but he did not appear distressed, only interposing with a
declaration that he thought he could remember the little poem—accordingly he
commenced reciting—

"A nimated airy angel      N otice now my humble line;      N ever was there
such a feeling      I n my breast, as now is stealing,      E re I saw that form
divine." "Pray spare me the rest," exclaimed Annie, almost suffocated with
laughter, which she vainly tried to repress, "my modesty is too sensitive to
stand such praises, so I entreat you to allow us to exercise our imaginations as
to the remainder." "Do you know when I began that I wanted to make every word in
the line commence with the same letter, but I could not manage it; it was too
much for me." "I can easily believe that," replied Mr. Millar, gravely. "I think
it was too much for my sister too; you should not indulge young girls with such
flattery: depend upon it, it's very bad for them." "Oh, dear no," replied he, "a
little flattery delicately administered makes way amazingly amongst those whose
hearts are soft and easily touched." "Amongst which number I conclude you reckon
me?" enquired Annie. "No, indeed, you are hard-hearted and cruel to a degree to
drive twenty such men as me to despair." "I hope I shall never be reduced to do
so desperate a deed; twenty such men would be a formidable phalanx—more than I
could stand at all," said Miss Millar, arching her eye-brows and apparently
looking on the point of laughing again. He looked suspiciously at her, and said,
after considering her countenance a moment,

"I have not made more than the first couplet of my address to Miss Emma Watson,
do you think you can help me?" "Let us hear your effusion—we will see what we
can do," replied Annie. "Emma, elegant, enchanting,      Merry maiden, much is
wanting—"

"But, then, I don't know what to say next—what _do_ you think is wanting?" said
Mr. Alfred in the most earnest tone possible. "I should finish it this way,"
suggested Annie. "My melodious muse to make      All I wish it for thy sake."
"Thank you, indeed," cried he, "what condescending goodness on your part to
stoop to such kindness as to assist me with such poetical rhymes. Do you ever
compose yourself?" "How can you ask—have you not read a small volume of poems
entitled, 'Way-side Flowers? '—and did you not know they were mine?" "No,
indeed! How delighted I am to be acquainted with a real author! I shall never
rest till I have procured and read your poems." "I wish you success in the
search then," replied Annie, "and repose and quiet when you have succeeded." In
those days, Authors and Authoresses were far less plentiful than now; when not
to know, or be nearly related to one, is a more remarkable circumstance by far,
than the contrary; and Alfred Freemantle really believing Annie's assertion,
looked and felt most highly exalted at the supposed discovery. He continued,
during the rest of the walk, to plague her with questions as to what species of
stanzas—what measure—what style of writing she preferred, until Annie on getting
free from him at length, burst into a strong invective against his stupidity and
want of common sense. Her brother quietly told her she deserved it—she liked to
play on his dullness of perception, and it served her right when it recoiled on
her own head. Annie denied that there was any malice in what she said, it was
only a little fun, and was not really, at all naughty. They reached their house
at last, and the two ladies, being both tired and hungry, were extremely glad of
rest and dinner. Elizabeth could not help wondering at herself for what she was
doing, and where she was; but the human mind soon gets accustomed to any
circumstances, and she enjoyed herself too much to feel any regret at the change
of scene. Their little quartette was extremely pleasant and good-humoured; she
was introduced to Mr. Millar's children, and was much pleased with them; and the
little things, with the intuitive perception peculiar to children, clung to her
with great delight and affection. After spending, by far the most cheerful
evening which she could remember, since they were snowed up at Mr. Howard's she
was escorted home by George Millar, and parted from him with so friendly a
feeling, that she could hardly believe he was only a two days' acquaintance.
CHAPTER X. Very different was the evening her sisters had been passing. Robert
was engaged in his office—Margaret engrossed with a new romance that morning
procured—and Jane, being tired, and having nothing to amuse her, was more than
usually cross to Emma; finding fault with the manner in which she had performed
some needle-work, and going on from that to a general charge of indifference,
indolence, and constant inattention. Emma sighed, and could not help throwing
back a mournful thought to passed times, when she had felt herself the pet of
her dear uncle, and the idol of a whole household; or later, when she had
flattered herself with the notion that she was the first object with Mr. Howard.
It seemed now, quite like recalling a dream, when she looked back to those happy
days; so suddenly, and entirely, had the scene been changed. Then she began to
wonder when she should hear from Miss Osborne—and what she would say—how she
would bear the idea of being called into a court of justice; whether her family
would not be angry at it—and what the result would be. Would Tom Musgrove yield
or not?—or would Robert persist in his determination; and in these silent
meditations the evening passed heavily away. She was glad when Elizabeth came
home; her entrance brought some little diversion to their scene, as she had
something new to tell; and Jane, though rather inclined to resent any one having
so much enjoyment without her, was too well satisfied with the union which she
anticipated between Elizabeth and Mr. Millar, to feel any very strong
indignation on this occasion. Bed time came, and Emma, feeling wretchedly
depressed and miserable, could not refrain from the luxury of finishing the
evening with a good fit of crying, which relieved her heart, and soothed her to
sleep. Early the next morning Elizabeth went to Emma's room, and began to
express to her how very much she was pleased with George Millar, his sister, his
children, his house, his farm, and all that belonged to him. Then she declared
that, of all situations she had ever seen, she thought she should like the
neighbourhood of Croydon for a home,—and, indeed, she should not object to live
in the town altogether. Emma listened and acquiesced in it all; she had not
recovered her spirits—and though trying to enter into her sister's hopes and
wishes, she could hardly summon energy sufficient to do so. The morning passed
much as usual until post time, when Emma received an answer to her note to Miss
Osborne, and Robert at the same time was favored with a letter from Tom
Musgrove. The four ladies were in the drawing-room, and Emma was looking over
the dispatch from Miss Osborne, when her brother entered and communicated to
them all the contents of Tom's letter. It was short and decisive. "Dear Sir,

"The receipt of your letter of yesterday       surprised me a good deal. I am
extremely sorry that       there should have been any misunderstanding of the
sort; but I am sure your amiable sister will at once       admit that my
attentions to her have always been       limited within the bounds of
friendship, such as our       long acquaintance justifies, and such as I have
paid       to twenty other young ladies before her eyes. With       kind
compliments to the ladies of your family, I have       the honor to remain,

"Dear Sir,

"Yours faithfully, &c. &c."

Margaret thought it incumbent on her immediately to go off in a fit of hysterics
on hearing this read, sobbing out between whiles, that he was a cruel, cruel
man, and she never meant to care more about him. "Do have done with that
confounded noise," said Robert impatiently, "for there's no getting a word of
sense from a woman when she's in that state, and heaven knows it's little enough
one can reasonably expect at any time." Margaret's sobs did not cease at this
gentle request, and Robert grew more angry. "By Jove, Margaret, if you don't
stop, I'll leave you to make the best of your own matters, and neither meddle
nor make any more in it." Afraid that he might really keep his word, she ceased
at last, and he then enquired what Emma had heard from Miss Osborne. Emma read
the passage in which Miss Osborne replied to her assurance that Margaret still
considered Mr. Musgrove engaged to her; it merely thanked her for the
information, stated that she would warn her friend, and wished Miss Margaret a
happy termination to her engagement. The rest of the letter was about subjects
quite unconnected with Tom Musgrove, and uninteresting to any one but Emma. Miss
Osborne mentioned one thing which gave her peculiar pleasure; her marriage with
Sir William was to take place after Easter, and they were going down to spend
the spring and summer months at Osborne Castle, which her brother had lent to
them, whilst Sir William Gordon was determining on the plan and elevation of a
new mansion, which he intended to build on his property. Miss Osborne earnestly
hoped that Emma would once more visit there, and declared she quite looked
forward with impatience to a future meeting. She did not wish to read this
aloud, as she shrunk from the appearance of boasting about her grand
acquaintance, but neither Jane nor Margaret would allow her to rest in peace
until she had made known the principal contents of her letter; and a sentence
containing the information that they had seen Mr. Howard, who had spent a few
days in town lately, was the only information she eventually kept to herself.
Margaret's curiosity having materially aided in restoring her composure, she was
soon able to enquire of her brother what he intended to do. He repeated all he
had formerly asserted, and Emma heard it with horror; she escaped from in the
room to consider what she had better do, and after much thought, decided on
writing at once to Miss Osborne, informing her of what was threatened. She sat
down and wrote accordingly:

"Dear Miss Osborne,

"I hope you will not consider me in any way       to blame, if the information I
have to communicate       is disagreeable to you. I am sorry to say that Mr.
Musgrove has been so unprincipled as entirely to deny       the engagement,
which _we_ know subsisted between       him and my sister; and what grieves me
still more       is, that my brother, convinced that there actually       was an
engagement, declares he will bring an action       against Mr. Musgrove, unless
he immediately fulfils       it. The idea that we shall have to appear in a
court       of justice, frightens me very much, and I thought       it right to
give you early notice of his intention       that you might not be taken by
surprise. My brother       is so fixed in his resolution, that I cannot see the
smallest probability of an escape for us, unless Mr.       Musgrove can be
persuaded to act up to his promise. I know Lord Osborne has great influence with
him,       and for the sake of your family, and his own character       and
respectability, he might perhaps be persuaded       by him to do so; but with a
man of such a character,       my sister's chance of happiness would be small,
and       I cannot wish for their marriage, even to save myself       from what
I so greatly dread. I feel I am wrong and       selfish in shrinking from an
exertion which I suppose       is my duty, and perhaps after all, when there are
so many troubles in life, one difficulty more or less       ought not to disturb
me so much. I am truly rejoiced       at your bright prospects, and shall indeed
have great       pleasure at any time you name, in witnessing your
domestic happiness; I assure you that your kind       invitation has given me
more pleasure than anything I       have lately experienced. "Believe me, dear
Miss Osborne,

"Very truly yours, &c. &c."

We must follow this letter to London, and describe the effect which it produced
on the parties concerned, and the results which arose from it. Miss Osborne was
sitting in the breakfast-room in Portman Square when it was brought to her. Sir
William Gordon was beside her on the sofa, assisting at her late breakfast, in
the English sense of the word, and playfully telling her that he never meant to
wait so long for his, when he was settled at home. As she looked at the address.
"Here is a letter," she observed, "from that charming Emma Watson with whom you
were pleased to carry on such a flirtation just before you proposed to me." "I
flirt with Emma Watson," exclaimed he, "I deny it entirely—I never flirted with
any girl in my life." "What have you forgotten it all—did you not take a walk
with her in the park—a sketch in a cottage—and a drive in a cart? do you mean to
deny all that?" "By no means, I only deny entirely all flirtation whatever—what
time—what spirits—what inclination could I have to flirt with her, when I was
doing hard service to win your most intractable and hard-hearted self." "Not so
very hard-hearted, I think, Sir William," said she, blushing. "Stern enough to
drive an ordinary man to despair, Rosa," replied he, looking admiringly at her;
"and had I not been as obstinate as yourself, we never should have been sitting
as we now are." "Well, you may as well let my hand alone, I think, for I want
the use of it to open my letter," and accordingly the young lady broke the seal,
as soon as she could get possession of her hand. "Let me look over you," said
he, leaning forward with his cheek close to hers. She repulsed him, and placed
herself in the corner of the sofa, where he was forced to be satisfied with
watching her face. He saw her cheek glow, and her eye flash, whilst her brow
contracted with repressed indignation, and she seemed on the point of tearing
the letter in two. She did not, however, but dropped her hands in her lap, and
sat for a minute looking upwards earnestly, as if trying to recall some past
event, then frowned again. Her lover extended his hand towards her, and
exclaimed—

"My dear Rosa, what _is_ the matter, your looks quite frighten me—do let me see
this letter." "Take it," said she, "and see what intolerable impertinence is
threatened me." He read it attentively, then said—

"I am quite bewildered—completely mystified—what have you got to do with all
this—and what does it mean?" "Ah, you may well be astonished," she replied;
"don't you see what is threatened? imagine _me_, a peer's daughter, dragged into
the Assize Court as a witness in an action between Margaret Watson and Thomas
Musgrove, for a breach of promise of marriage. Can you realise the scene? It
would be novel and interesting, I think." "Extremely so, and I do not see why
you should mind it: you will, of course, be treated with all proper respect and
consideration, and justice must be done. Don't make yourself unhappy about
that." "You are joking, Sir William; and I shall be angry presently." "No, don't
pray; I should not like that—but tell me how you happened to become the
confidante of this charming Margaret; I did not know your friendship extended to
the whole family." "Neither does it—it is only Emma I care for," replied she;
and she then proceeded to explain to Sir William all the circumstances attending
their involuntary audience of Musgrove's courtship, and her reason for keeping
it quiet. "Caught listening, eh!" ejaculated Sir William; "I do not wonder that
you shrink from being called on to avow it in public. What a pity that you did
not start out and cry 'bo!' to them both; from all accounts they deserved it."
"That's all very well, and you may amuse yourself with laughing at me, if you
like; but tell me how can I avoid this difficulty—must I appear in court?"
"Certainly, if you are subpœned to appear—there is no help for that." "How
coolly you treat it—why is it not you instead of me it has happened to?" "Only
because I was not one of the eavesdroppers." "I assure you, Sir William, if you
go on laughing at my distress, I will punish you for it." "I am excessively
sorry for your distress, my dear Rosa, but I must think it quite unfounded."
"Well, there's one thing certain, I warn you: if I have to appear in this
business, we must defer our marriage; I could not appear as a bride and a
witness during the same month." Sir William started up from the cushion where he
was lounging, and looking fixedly at her, exclaimed—

"You are not serious." "Perfectly so, Sir William; and I see you are so now,"
replied Miss Osborne. "Then you shall have no occasion to put your threat in
execution," said he, with an air of determination; "let us talk the matter over
seriously, Rosa." "Ah, I am glad I have brought you to your senses, at last; now
consider, if we could do as Emma advises, and persuade this Mr. Musgrove to
marry, as he ought, there would be an end of all trouble in the affair." "To
you, perhaps, but not to Miss Margaret; I dare say her amiable husband would
beat her every day." "Now don't relax into your indifference again, and be
provoking! Oh, here comes Osborne; let's explain the case to him, and see what
he says on the subject." Lord Osborne, at the moment, entered the room, and his
sister tried to make him comprehend the facts that had occurred. "I think," said
he, after hearing her story, "that Musgrove has behaved very ill—very ill,
indeed." "No doubt of that, my dear brother," replied she; "but what do you
think of this Mr. Watson's proposal?" "Just what we might expect from a lawyer,
that he would go to law; it's his business, Rosa," replied her brother. "But
it's not my business to be obliged to appear in public is a witness in this
ridiculous matter. If he likes to make his sister's _affaires de cœur_ the
subject for conversation and coarse jokes through the county, it is all very
well, but I cannot see why I am to be implicated in a transaction which reflects
nothing but discredit on all the parties," said Miss Osborne, with encreasing
dissatisfaction. "Especially to those who are detected in listening, Rosa,"
suggested Sir William Gordon. "And poor Emma too," continued she, pretending not
to hear him, "she evidently dreads the threatened exposure; I am quite concerned
about it for her." "Naturally enough," said the lover, in the same tormenting
tone; "it makes every one sorry to be found out." "Really, Sir William Gordon,"
said Miss Osborne, drawing up her slight figure with an air of great
indignation, "if you can suggest nothing that is more agreeable than such
reflections, we shall be better without you; and I recommend you to leave us to
take care of ourselves." It was haughtily said—for her quick temper was roused;
he knew her well, and did not mean that she should obtain a sovereign rule over
him. He loved her for her spirit—but he was determined not to crouch to it—and
rising, he made her a grave bow, and left the room. She looked after him
anxiously, expecting he would return, or at least, give her one more glance, but
he did not, and the door closed before she could make up her mind to speak
again. "What do you want me to do, Rosa?" said her brother, "I think it will be
easy to prevent all this, if it plagues you and your friend so much; I will
speak to Tom myself, and see if I cannot persuade him to keep his promise." "Ah!
do, if you can, Osborne; of course the girl wants to marry him; and if he will
do that, we shall be left in peace. Poor Emma seems very unhappy—look at her
letter." Lord Osborne received it eagerly and read it through. "Poor thing,"
said he, quite compassionately, "how soon, Rosa, may girls marry after their
father's death?" "Oh! that's a matter of taste! and I don't think it signifies
in this matter at all. If we could only get Mr. Musgrove to acknowledge his
engagement, he may take his own time for marrying." Her brother was on the point
of saying that he was not thinking of him, but he let it pass—and, after a
moment's consideration, added:

"Then you think there would be no harm in _engaging_ a girl, even if she could
not marry immediately." "Oh! I don't know, this engagement was formed before old
Mr. Watson died, and that makes a difference. Perhaps, if people are very
particular, they might not like to commence a courtship under such
circumstances." "Well, what can I do?" "Find Mr. Musgrove—tiresome man that he
is—and tell him that, as the fact of his engagement is known, and, consequently,
he is as certain to have a verdict against him, as this Mr. Watson is determined
to try for it, the only thing for him to do, to avoid such a result, is to act
like a man of honor. If he refuses, and by that means draws me into any thing so
repugnant to my feelings as appearing in a court, he can never expect to be
noticed by us again; and if _we_ set the example, every one will throw him
off—he will be scouted in the neighbourhood, and can never dare to shew his face
again at home. Tell him this, and if I do not greatly mistake the man he will
yield." "I will try what I can do, Rosa, but I wish Gordon had undertaken it—he
has so many more words than I have?" "And if you cannot succeed with him, we
must have recourse to Mr. Watson, the attorney, and try what we can do to stop
his proceedings," continued Rosa. "Perhaps a little bribery, judiciously
applied, might induce him to relinquish his intention, and save any further
trouble." "We shall see about that," replied he, "but, in the meantime, I will
look for Musgrove, and try my skill on him." "Could you find Sir William,
Osborne," said Rosa, blushing, "and tell him that I should like to speak to
him—or no, perhaps, if you tell him only what you are going to do, it will be
better." "I heard him leave the house, Rosa," said Lord Osborne, quite
innocently, "but, if I see him at the club, I will tell him what you say." Miss
Osborne bit her lip and made no reply; she did not like to shew the empire which
Sir William had over her feelings—nor would she readily have acknowledged the
anxiety she could not avoid entertaining with regard to his quitting her so
gravely. She had discovered that he would not be played with and tormented for
her amusement, and she dared not attempt to trifle with him as she might have
done with a less resolute man. Her brother left her and she spent the rest of
the morning alone, and very uneasy. She was in no humour to receive visitors,
and was entirely disinclined for any occupation. She kept on telling herself it
was not because Sir William was absent that she was dissatisfied, it was only
because she herself was threatened with a disagreeable incident; then she fell
into a train of wondering thought as to what Sir William intended to do, where
he was gone, and whether he would soon return to Portman Square. Her heart beat
every time she heard the knocker, though she knew his hand too well to be
deceived in that. At length, a note was brought to her with an assurance that
the bearer was waiting. It was in his handwriting, and she opened it with
trepidation. The style surprised her. "Sir William Gordon's compliments to Miss
Osborne, and he has the happiness of informing her       that affairs are placed
on a satisfactory footing       with regard to Mr. Musgrove; but, as Sir W., has
undertaken to communicate the result of the interview       to Miss Watson and
her sister, he wishes to know       whether Miss Osborne would recommend him to
go in       person to Croydon—and if so, whether she has any       commands for
him." Rosa read the note over three times before she could make up her mind to
the answer she should return. She felt it deeply; the tone, the meaning, all
conveyed a sort of covert reproach to her. She was sorry and angry at the same
moment; and she was quite undecided whether to yield to or resent his conduct.
After much deliberation she hastily wrote:

"Miss Osborne's compliments to Sir William       Gordon, and as she finds it
impossible to give an       opinion without understanding more of the
circumstances, she begs he will favor her with a call       this afternoon, to
explain what arrangements he has       made." No sooner was this note despatched
than she bitterly regretted having sent such a one, and felt she would have
given anything in the world to recall it, when too late. She could think of
nothing else, of course, and being quite indisposed for any amusement she
refused to accompany her mother in the afternoon drive, but remained sitting
alone in the drawing-room. Engrossed with her own thoughts, she did not hear him
enter, and was not aware of his presence till he spoke, and gravely observed,

"I am here, Miss Osborne, according to your commands; may I request you will let
me know your further wishes." "You are still offended, Sir William," replied
she, looking up at him; "I thought you would have recovered yourself by this
time." "I cannot so soon forget the repulse I received; and I presume you
intended it to be remembered." "Nay, now don't look like that, I cannot bear it,
I was wrong;" said she extending her hand to him. "Forgive me and sit down."
Miss Osborne had not to say she was wrong twice over, nor to repeat the request
for forgiveness. He was not tyrannical, though he could not submit to slavery,
and a reconciliation was soon effected. When they were able to talk of anything
besides themselves, he described to her his interview with Tom Musgrove. He had
found him insolent and angry—disposed to resent Mr. Watson's threats as
insulting, and Sir William's interference as uncalled-for. His tone, however,
was considerably lowered when he ascertained for the first time that his
conversation with Margaret had been overheard by two who were quite able to
prove the fact. Sir William told him he was authorized by the family of one
young lady—indeed as her affianced husband he considered himself bound to step
forward and endeavour to prevent the necessity of her appearing as a witness in
a public court: should she, in consequence of Mr. Musgrove's persevering in
denying the truth, be compelled to perform so unpleasant a task, it would bring
down on him the enmity of the noble family of which the lady was a member, and
the universal contempt of the county; whereas, whilst affairs stood as they did
at present, the fact of his inconstancy being known to so few, it was evident
the whole business might be hushed up, and when he and Miss Watson were married,
they might be certain of the countenance and favour of the family at Osborne
Castle, and all their connexions. Tom had hesitated much, and evidently deeply
repented the unguarded conduct which had placed him in such an unpleasant
predicament; and though he had yielded at last to a conviction of the necessity
of the thing, it was with a reluctance which augured ill for the domestic
felicity of the future Mrs. Musgrove. Indeed he had told Sir William, with an
oath, that if she really compelled him to marry her, Margaret Watson should rue
the day; so that upon the whole Sir William was of opinion that the young lady
had much better not persist in her claim, if she had any value for a quiet home.
"I dare say he will not be worse than other men," replied Rosa saucily; "I have
a notion that they are all tyrants to women at heart, only some wear a mask in
courtship and some do not take that trouble. But they are all alike in the end,
no doubt." "Very possibly, Rosa; suppose you were to carry out your theory and
change places with Miss Margaret." "Thank you; your liberality is overpowering;
but though they may be all alike in temper, they are so neither in person nor
name—and in neither of these particulars does Mr. Musgrove please me." It was
then settled that Rosa should write to her friend and inform her how matters
were going on—it being understood that Tom Musgrove was by the same post to
assert his claim to Miss Margaret Watson's hand in a letter to her brother.
CHAPTER XI. Had Margaret Watson possessed one particle of proper spirit, the
tone and manner in which Tom Musgrove fulfilled his part of the bargain would
have been sufficient to cause a total rupture between them; but far from this
was the case with her. The fact of being now believed in her declaration, of
being known as an engaged young lady, of having a right to talk about wedding-
clothes, and sigh sentimentally at the prospect before her; the distinction
which all this would give her in a small country town, where every occurrence,
from a proposal of marriage down to the purchase of a new pair of shoes, was
immediately known to all the neighbours—this delighted Margaret's weak mind, and
set her heart in a flutter of gratified vanity. To be able to inform all the
morning visitors at her brother's house that indeed she was contemplating this
important change, that she was yielding to a long and well placed affection,
that she had known her dear Tom all her life, and that their mutual attachment
had been of many years' standing—to sigh over the prospect of soon leaving her
sisters, and trying a new situation, seeking a new home, entering on new
duties—all this was perfect ecstasy to her, and on the strength of her
engagement she became more than ever peevish and disagreeable to her sisters in
private, and more affable and smiling to her associates in public. Her dear
Tom—her absent friend—was introduced on all occasions in her speeches, and most
happy would she have been had she been able to introduce him personally to the
admiring young ladies of Croydon. Miss Jenkins was dying to see him; Miss Lamb
was certain he must be a charming beau; Miss Morgan and her sister were never
weary of hearing the colour of his hair, and the style of his equipage. This was
highly gratifying to Margaret, but she had her little discomforts too. There
were some young ladies who shrugged their shoulders and wished Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Musgrove might have a quiet house of it—there were others who whispered strange
things about the courtship. Miss Lascomb thought it very odd indeed Mr. Musgrove
did not come to see his betrothed—of course they knew their own affairs best,
but she hoped if ever she were in such a situation, to see a little more
devotion and warmth in her swain. Miss Johnston said _she_ knew how young men
were sometimes caught, that she did, and till she heard the gentleman declare
his engagement with a smile, she should not be persuaded that it did not cost
him a sigh. These speeches, though not made to Margaret, were all carefully
repeated to her, by some of her many kind friends, who delighted in retailing
small ware of the kind. She coloured and pouted, tossed her head, and
recommended people to leave affairs alone which did not belong to them, and
wondered any people could take such pleasure in interfering in other people's
concerns. But _she_ knew what it came from, that she did, it was all envy and
spite, because she was going to marry a real gentleman, who had nothing to do,
and Mr. Johnston was only an apothecary, and all the world knew that Miss
Lascomb had been setting her cap at the writing master for the last three years,
and all to no purpose. In her heart, she was really troubled with some
misgivings on account of not receiving any communication from Tom—she would have
delighted to parade his letters before her admiring confidantes, and her envying
female friends, but this pleasure was denied her. All she could do, was to write
very often herself, and take care to have a letter directed to him beside her,
whenever any of her gossipping acquaintance came to pay her a visit of
inspection. The news from Chichester which about this time arrived gave a very
flourishing account of Penelope's affairs. Her lover, notwithstanding his
advanced age, appeared far more ardent and energetic than the youthful Tom
Musgrove. In accordance, it was said, with his earnest solicitations, their
union was to take place very speedily, and Penelope hoped that the next time she
had occasion to write to her sisters, it would be to inform them that she no
longer bore the same name as themselves. In the prospects of her two sisters,
Emma saw little to console her for the blight which had fallen on her own; she
would have rejoiced with all her heart had she been able to suppose they would
be happy, but she could not reconcile herself to the proceedings of either, nor
persuade herself, try as she would, that in either case, the motives which led
them to engage in a connection so important as matrimony were such as could
ensure a blessing with them. In Penelope's case especially, she could view it as
nothing but a sale of herself for a certain amount of settlements; she knew
there was neither love nor esteem on her side, for she had heard her, in
unguarded moments, express sentiments quite the reverse, speaking of her future
husband in a slighting tone, and with a contemptuous accent, as if she held him
little better than an idiot for the very act of marrying her. As to Margaret,
though she really seemed in love, after a fashion, with Mr. Musgrove, there was
too evident a reluctance on his part, and too much want of delicacy on hers, to
leave, as Emma imagined, the least chance of anything happier than a total
rupture between them; and taking everything into consideration it seemed to her
that such an event would be by much the most desirable circumstance that could
occur. Emma herself was, for some time, a close prisoner. Mrs. Watson found so
much for her to do, that she had scarcely time to stir from the nursery, except
when she took a walk with Janetta, who was now almost entirely confided to her
care. The child loved her dearly; and had her exertions as nursery governess
given the smallest satisfaction to her sister-in-law, had they even been treated
by her as an equivalent for board and maintenance, she would have been less
uncomfortable. But whilst she was spending her whole time in unremunerated, and
indeed unacknowledged services, she was perpetually reminded of her entire
dependence on Robert, and taunted with her uselessness, her idle habits, and her
fine lady manners. The numerous visitors, who dawdled away a morning hour in
Mrs. Watson's parlour, were apt to expatiate on her extraordinary liberality and
kindness in receiving her three sisters as her guests, little imagining that the
two elder paid for their board out of their scanty incomes, and that the younger
compensated for the misery she endured, under the show of patronage, in a way
yet more advantageous to her grudging but ostentatious relatives. At length, a
grand event occurred. Mr. Millar invited them all to a dinner party, and Annie
hinted that it was to be followed by a dance and a supper. They were all asked,
and though Jane demurred about Emma, Robert overruled her. "We must let the girl
have a chance," said he; "if she is never seen, there's no chance of any of
those young fellows proposing for her." Jane had no wish that they should. She
felt Emma's value far too strongly to be at all inclined to part with her. Her
caps had never been so nicely made—her stockings so carefully darned—or
Janetta's wardrobe so well attended to, as since she had turned over every
trouble of the kind to Emma. But as she did not choose to own these
considerations, she was obliged to assent to Robert's proposal, and Emma was to
go to the Millars'. In spite of their mutual wishes, she had seen very little of
Annie Millar; their meetings had been hindered in every possible way by Mrs.
Watson, who was always apprehensive that Emma would complain, aware, as she was,
that she had real reason to do so; but Mrs. Watson had skilfully contrived that
the drawing back from her acquaintance should appear the voluntary act of Emma,
a notion which cooled Annie's friendship towards her, until Elizabeth, with her
usual frankness, had on one occasion afforded an explanation of the matter. The
result of this was an energetic attempt, on Miss Millar's side, to secure her
society for the evening in question, and as she had appealed to Robert as well
as Jane, she was successful. They went accordingly, and Emma's quick eyes were
immediately caught by the difference of manner which George Millar displayed
towards Elizabeth, compared with the rest of the party. To the others he was
open, cordial, and kind, with an address which if not exactly polished, was at
least far removed from vulgarity; but to Miss Watson he was hurried and awkward,
apparently eager to please to a degree which deprived him of the self-possession
necessary for that end. Elizabeth too, looked shy and conscious when their eyes
met, though evidently expecting and wishing that he should take his stand beside
her chair, which she had fortunately secured in such a position, that after
walking forward to receive his visitors, he was able to fall back again, and
resume his conversation with her. Emma saw this with satisfaction, and
venturing, in spite of her own disappointments, to speculate on the future, she
fancied that at least her dear sister Elizabeth would secure a happy home for
herself. Annie Millar seated herself by Emma's side soon after the Watson party
entered the room, and began warmly expressing her pleasure in at length seeing
her in her brother's house. Emma assured her in reply, that it was not want of
inclination that had kept her away, but want of leisure, for she added quite
simply:

"I am governess to my little niece, and have not, therefore, much time to spare
for any other purpose. I dare say my sister-in-law told you so." "No indeed,"
said Annie warmly, and colouring with indignation, "she never said anything of
the kind; she always excused you on the plea of studies or occupations for your
good which you had to pursue, and boasted of her kind and attentive care for
your benefit, without once hinting that she was under obligations to you, which
the hospitality of which she boasts so much can ill-repay." "Oh hush, Miss
Millar," replied Emma blushing deeply, "you must not indeed talk so: if my
brother receives me into his house, the least I can do is to take care of his
child in return, and so lighten the trouble which I cannot help giving." "But,
my dear Miss Emma, excuse my taking the liberty of saying that if you were
governess to any other lady's child, you would not only be supposed to earn your
board and lodging, but some fifty or sixty pounds in addition, so that in fact
Mrs. Watson is the obliged party in this concern." Miss Millar was called away
at the moment to receive some other visitor, and when able again to return to
her seat, she observed:

"That was a most fortunate interruption, for it certainly saved me from saying
something unpardonably impertinent. I am, I have been told, much too apt to
speak my feelings on all subjects, without sufficiently considering, times,
places, and persons. How well your sister looks to-night." "Which sister?"
enquired Emma. "Oh Miss Watson; I never could admire your sister Margaret,
though I know many people who do; neither she nor Mrs. Watson, who is rather in
the other extreme, are at all to my taste." "Elizabeth looks very happy,"
observed Emma. "I am sure she deserves to be so," replied Annie with enthusiasm,
"she is such a very amiable person, I know few with whom I more enjoy a day's
intercourse. It always seems to do me good to hear her talk, she makes so light
of difficulties, and is so cheerful. To me, who I believe am rather too apt to
grumble, she is quite a lesson I assure you." "I am delighted to hear you say
so," replied Emma, with a look that shewed how perfectly sincere was the
expression she used. Though Annie was frequently called away by the necessity of
receiving other visitors, she took every opportunity she could command of
returning to Emma's side, and conversing with her in the most friendly way.
During the intervals when she was obliged to withdraw, Emma looked round the
room, to see how the others were employed or amused. Mrs. Turner was discoursing
eloquently with Mrs. Watson, who was evidently bored exceedingly, and hardly
listening at all; her thoughts as well as her eyes seemed to turn constantly to
an individual of the party unknown to Emma, a tall and pleasant looking man, who
stood by a nice looking elderly lady, and seemed to be making himself very
agreeable to her. Margaret had no one to talk to, and was busy in arranging her
tucker in a satisfactory way, and smoothing her gloves from the tips of the
fingers upwards. Robert was hungry, and consequently quite unable to enter into
conversation with any one. He was faintly trying to hide the violent yawns which
were produced by the suspension of feeling—the uneasy state of expectancy in
which he was kept. Emma could read his impatience in the peculiar twitching
about his eyes, and the spasmodic way in which his hands closed at intervals, as
if grasping some imaginary knife and fork. There were two other gentlemen of the
party whose names she ascertained from her young friend; one a tall, stiff,
elderly man, with an erect carriage, and rather disappointed expression of
countenance, she learnt was a Captain Tomlins, an old soldier, who played a
remarkably good rubber at whist; the other was the clergyman of the parish, who
had but just returned from Bath, and consequently was unknown to Emma. He was a
mild-looking, middle-aged man, with a very bald head, and a small quantity of
silver hair; his countenance was singularly pleasing and inviting, and there was
an earnest kindness in his manner which charmed her. He stooped and was very
round shouldered, whilst a slight appearance of lameness arising from the gout
which had driven him to Bath, interested Emma peculiarly in him, because it
reminded her of her father. The other individual who occupied so much of Jane's
attention, Emma was likewise informed was the doctor of the parish, and one of
the principal objects of interest to half the ladies of the town. Annie assured
her his reputation as a doctor was wonderful; he made all his patients pleased
with themselves, and consequently pleased with him likewise; indeed he had a
sort of harmless way of making love to the ladies under his care, which was very
captivating to most people. "And are you one of his patients?" enquired Emma,
"or only an amateur admirer of his?" "Oh, I was never any one's patient,"
replied Annie; "I am never ill; and as to being an admirer of his, indeed I do
not think I ever could admire a doctor—I have a decided aversion to the
profession altogether." "I never liked it," observed Emma, "until I became
acquainted with my brother Sam, and for his sake I have been quite reconciled to
it." "Yes I can understand that, I think George could reconcile me to anything,"
replied Miss Millar with an expression of feeling resting on her open
countenance, which Emma thought quite bewitching; "but after all a doctor's is
an odious profession: to be eternally dinned with complaints and pains, and
always administering drugs and mixtures in which I dare say they have no faith
all the time, must require a stock of extraordinary patience. I wonder how that
man can go smiling and complimenting through the world as he does." "But you
look only at the disagreeable side of the profession," returned Emma; "you
should consider it as the means of alleviating suffering, relieving
distress—perhaps prolonging the most valuable life; if you think of the good a
doctor can do, you will form a higher estimate of the profession." "Yes, but
then all those wise thoughts do not come of themselves into my poor brain; it is
only those as clever and sedate as you who can suggest them, and in spite of it
all, I am afraid I shall go on always hating the profession all my life." Their
conversation was cut short by a summons to dinner, when owing to there being a
preponderance of ladies in the party, Annie and Emma walked in together. At the
table, however, they were separated, and Emma's ill-luck placed her between her
sister-in-law and her brother, a mis-arrangement which was not perceived until
every one was seated, and which Mrs. Watson then insisted should not be changed.
Jane was particularly cross; she had expected the distinction of leading the way
to the dining-room in company with the master of the house, and she saw instead
a quiet-looking, plainly-dressed lady precede her. Not knowing who the stranger
was, and feeling all the right of being first, which as niece to Sir Thomas she
invariably claimed, the indignant blood mounted to her cheeks. The hope,
however, that Mr. Morgan the doctor would take care of her instead for a moment
tranquillized her mind; but when the place he should have occupied was
officiously filled by the whist-playing Captain Tomlins, who cared nothing for
the right of precedence and only desired to reach the dining-room quickly, her
indignation was with difficulty repressed; and as she looked over her shoulder
in leaving the room, and saw Elizabeth following with Mr. Morgan, her anger rose
to a climax. "I wonder who that is walking just in front of _me_," said she to
her companion. "I am sure I don't know, ma'am—I was thinking she must be a
stranger;" replied Captain Tomlins anxiously snuffing up the scent of dinner
ascending from the lower regions of the house. "The Millars always give such
good dinners." "It's very odd," continued Mrs. Watson, "how little attention is
paid to rank; it seems to be getting quite the fashion now to set aside all the
old distinctions. Formerly neither men nor women thought of pushing themselves
out of their places, but now all that is forgotten, and one may be obliged to
walk in to dinner behind you don't know who, and often conducted by some one who
has no right to put himself forward." "Very true, ma'am, such things may
happen—but you know at least who is leading you, and I conceive that as an
officer in the service of his Majesty, I have a perfect right to walk before any
of our present company, excepting always our host. I am sure you must agree with
me." "Upon my word," said Mrs. Watson, with an angry little laugh. "I was not at
all aware of your rank being so very high, or entitling you to such very great
distinction. However, I dare say it's all right, and I shall find myself, no
doubt, soon walking in behind the old sexton's wife, or taking the hand of the
parish clerk to the table." As they had reached the table, by the time she had
made this speech, Captain Tomlins did not trouble himself to answer her, being
intently occupied in counting the dishes which stood before him, as resting his
hands on the edge of the table, and firmly compressing his lips, he bent forward
to take a survey of the shining covers, as if half-expecting to be able to
penetrate their substance, and ascertain their contents. Mrs. Watson tossed her
head in angry disdain, and was forced to soothe her agitated feelings by
scrutinising the way in which the party on the opposite side disposed
themselves. The doctor, whom she had vainly coveted as a companion, was seated
between Elizabeth and Margaret, the former having a seat at the corner next her
host's chair, so that Mr. Morgan was not likely to be much engrossed by her
conversation. Mr. Bridge, the rector, and Annie Millar filled up the rest of
that side, as Mrs. Turner took the head of the table. These were well placed, as
Mrs. Turner delighted in carving, and Annie being exceedingly attached to the
old clergyman, whom she had known from childhood, amply compensated to him by
her respectful attention for the total neglect with which he was treated by
Margaret, and the rude repulsive stare with which she received his first attempt
at conversation. In consequence of her situation, Emma's dinner was exceedingly
dull, and right glad was she when the time came for retiring to the drawing-
room. Here there was a change of scene, and also a change of companions; for she
was able to take a seat by Elizabeth, and learn from her, that she, at least,
had found the party very agreeable. Meanwhile Mrs. Watson was venting her
indignation against Captain Tomlins, in no very measured terms, for his love of
eating, his indifference to good society, and his presumptuous and pushing
manner. The stranger lady, whose name had not yet been made known, enquired if
it was her neighbour of whom she was speaking, and having received from Mrs.
Watson an abrupt and haughty affirmation, she turned to Mrs. Turner, and
informed her that she formerly knew him, and added, that they had enjoyed some
agreeable conversation together about old times and former acquaintances. Mrs.
Watson, on hearing this, eyed her with increased disdain and suspicion, and
moving away to the other side of the fireplace, she flirted her handkerchief
before her face, as if the very air were laden with impurity by her presence.
With head thrown back, and lips closely pressed together, she seemed determined
to prevent any more of her words being wasted in such a presence. Their party
was soon after joined and enlivened by a number of young ladies, and a fair
proportion of young men. The Miss Morgans, sisters to the doctor, the Miss Jones
and their brothers, children of a wealthy baker deceased; the owner of a
flourishing paper mill in the neighbourhood, together with the whole of his
large family, four sons and three daughters, rejoicing in the name of Lamb, the
eldest daughter being an enthusiastic friend of Margaret's; and two or three
families of great elegance and distinction in the neighbourhood; families who
enjoyed the advantage of having houses quite in the country, surrounded with
poplars and laurels, and no connection with any trade or business; these formed
the _élite_ of the party. There were several unconnected young men, amongst whom
Mr. Alfred Freemantle appeared conspicuous; and swaggering up to Emma's side,
declared that he meant to make that the _ne plus ultra_ of his hopes for the
evening. Annie, who heard him, maliciously desired he would translate the Latin
for the benefit of ignorant young ladies; but he pretended not to hear her
request, and went on talking to Emma without pity or cessation. Whilst Annie
Millar was busy dispensing the tea and coffee to her guests, Mrs. Watson
approached her, and enquired, who was that little old lady who walked into
dinner before her. A wicked light danced in Annie's eyes, for she had noticed
Jane's scornful manner, and was excessively pleased at the surprise in store for
her. "Do you not know her?" she replied; "she is my godmother, and is now
staying with us on her road to London." "And her name, tell me that—who is
she—who was she—to have the precedence over me, Miss Millar?' "She is the widow
of Sir George Barry, a baronet—who died a year or two ago—there is no family, so
the title becomes extinct—she is the kindest, quietest, best old lady in the
world, I am sure." "Bless me," cried Mrs. Watson, growing very red in the face,
"you don't say so, sure: a baronet's lady! well really—I never thought of that—I
am sure I wish I had known it sooner. Why did you not introduce me." "She did
not think it necessary," replied Annie, quietly; "and we always let her have her
own way—indeed, I believe I ought not to have told you who she is, only I saw
you were annoyed at her having the precedence of you, and I thought it would
comfort you to find it was not without reason and right." "Well, I shall
certainly go and talk to her now; but I am sure I don't know why you should
suppose I was annoyed about anything of the sort; I declare I do not mind in the
least what I do—or where I go—nobody can be more indifferent about their place
than I am, though, of course, I do not like to see a mere nobody put over my
head; but a baronet's lady is quite a different thing; I wonder whether she
knows my uncle Sir Thomas—I dare say she does—people of rank usually know one
another in London." Miss Millar did not try to prevent her going to make the
_amende honorable_ to Lady Barry, whose quiet features expressed some surprise
at the manner in which she was attacked by the hitherto scornful Mrs. Watson;
and the repetition of the word "your ladyship" met Annie's ear as she
contemplated them from the other side of the hearth rug. Mr. Alfred Freemantle
continued his battery of small talk in Emma's ear, and, at length, in spite of
the cold ungraciousness of her manner, which was as far removed as possible from
welcome or encouragement, the young gentleman ended his tirade by presenting her
with a paper which he declared was a copy of verses in her honour. Emma coldly
declined taking it, and his most urgent entreaties could not prevail on her to
look at the verses—just at this juncture, Miss Millar joined them, and on
understanding the subject in dispute she seized on the paper, and commenced
reading the lines aloud. They consisted of the usual jumble about stars and
flowers, streams and bowers, wings and other things, hearts, darts, flames and
names, which might be expected in the valentine of a school-boy, and Annie read
them in such an absurd, mock-heroic tone as made those within hearing laugh most
naturally, really thinking, as they did, that it was intended altogether as a
burlesque. Alfred Freemantle writhed under this laughter, which he could not
take as a compliment, having intended the whole poem to be extremely
sentimental: he tried to smile too, but really felt far more inclined to cry,
and he shrank back into a corner, there to hide his confusion as well as he
could. Annie did not pursue her triumph farther, but left the poor young man to
the mortifying consideration of his own defeat. When tea and coffee were
dismissed, Annie declared it to be her intention to have a dance, which of
course all the young people seconded with zeal. There was fortunately amongst
the party one lady, who it was known excelled in playing country-dances on the
harpsichord, which stood in the drawing-room, an heir loom from Annie's mother.
The room was soon prepared, and the young ladies all drew up their heads, and
began to look straight before them, as if they did not care the least in the
world which of the gentlemen asked them to dance, or whether any did at all.
Emma having no intention of standing up herself, drew farther back into a
corner, without perceiving that it was the very one where young Freemantle had
hidden his diminished head. He quite misinterpreted the action, and dropping
down into an empty chair by her side, said with an air intended to be very arch,

"I hope, Miss Watson, you were coming to ask me to dance." "Indeed I was not,"
replied Emma, "for I did not see you, but I shall be very happy to do so
immediately. Pray, Mr. Freemantle, go and dance with any one but myself."
"Unparalleled cruelty," cried he clasping his hands, and throwing up his chin
into the air. "To ask me to stand up with any other woman than the fair, the
captivating, the charming object of all my vows, of all my wishes." "If you mean
me by those expressions," replied Emma quite calmly, "and that you wish to stand
up with me, allow me to save you all further trouble, by the information that I
do not intend to dance at all this evening." "Impossible, you cannot be so hard-
hearted—so cruel to your devoted slaves, as all the men in this room must be—you
cannot be so unjust to your own charms, so unkind to your own attractions. That
elastic figure, graceful as the weeping willow, was formed to float through the
dance like the water lily on the surface of the stream. Those fairy
feet—those—in short do you really mean not to dance?" "Really so," replied Emma.
"Your reason—tell me your reason, I entreat you, why should you shrink from
bewitching our eyes, and lapping our senses in Elysium." "Excuse me, I think I
have done enough in giving you one positive answer; you have no right to require
any reason from a woman: or let this suffice you, I will not because I will
not." "Mr. Freemantle," said Annie, advancing towards them, and effecting an
agreeable diversion in Emma's favour, "I must request you to stand up; we can
harbour no idle young men in corners here; you are doomed to make yourself
agreeable to one lady for the space of two dances, and only on this condition
shall you remain in the room." "Since then the beauteous Miss Emma will not do
me the honor, will you permit me to solicit your hand, Miss Millar." "No indeed,
I am engaged for the whole evening, so you must find a partner somewhere else;
go and ask Miss Morgan or Miss Lamb." "I obey with the alacrity which your
commands must always inspire," and he went accordingly. Miss Millar stayed a
moment after him with Emma,

"I will not ask you to stand up," said she, "after the reason you gave me, but
both Mrs. Watson and your youngest sister have joined the set you see. How shall
you amuse yourself?" "Oh, never mind me," replied Emma cheerfully, "where is
Elizabeth—she does not dance surely?" "No, she's playing cards with my brother
and yours, I believe; they went into that little parlour on purpose. Will you
join them and look on?" Before Emma had time to answer, Annie was called away,
and a moment after Mr. Morgan came, and taking a chair near her, entered into
conversation with the ease of a man accustomed to see much of the world, and mix
in good society. She was interested and amused by his conversation, and more
especially so when she accidentally discovered that at college he had been well
acquainted with Mr. Howard, had since been visiting occasionally in the
neighbourhood of Osborne Castle, and knew the whole family. He was a good deal
older than Howard he told her, but he had remained some time in the vicinity of
Oxford after he began to practise; indeed he had adopted his profession rather
late in life, and having a fellowship he had continued single. All this he
communicated to Emma, but he had tact soon enough to discover that his own
history, unconnected with the family and neighbourhood of Osborne Castle,
interested her but little. He soon therefore turned the conversation to that
channel again, and discovered that her feelings were certainly deeply concerned
in it. Yet he could not quite satisfy himself whether it was the young lord or
his former tutor, whose name raised a tinge of blood to her cheek, which he saw
to be very becoming. Indeed there were so many reminiscences and peculiar
circumstances associated with her intimacy with Miss Osborne, and acquaintance
with her brother, they were so strangely implicated in Margaret's affairs, and
so much that Emma was ashamed of, was suggested by their names, that she was
quite as ready to blush at the memory of them, as at the dearer and more
tantalising recollections connected with Mrs. Willis and her brother. Well
knowing the art of pleasing, Mr. Morgan allowed her to lead in the subject of
the conversation, carefully following the turn which she chose to give it, and
trying to read her feelings with his scrutinising eye, whilst he seemed to be
all attention to her conversation at the moment. Annie's account of him had not
prepossessed her in his favour, yet now she could not deny that he was on the
whole an agreeable man. The interval of the two dances passed pleasantly away,
but when they were concluded Mr. Morgan left her, and she soon afterwards stole
away to the little room where the card-table was. For some reason, however,
which she could not learn, the whist party had been broken up, and she only
found sitting there George Millar and Elizabeth, apparently deeply engrossed in
a game at chess. She seated herself near them; her sister looked up and smiled,
and then resumed her game; no one spoke. Emma took up a folio of prints lying on
the table, and amused herself with looking over them. At length her attention
was arrested by the sound of her own name. By the voices she learnt the speakers
were her sister-in-law and Mr. Morgan, and the first words she heard were, the
gentleman saying:

"A very charming girl indeed, Mrs. Watson, that young sister-in-law of yours."
"You think so—do you admire her?" enquired the lady. "Very much—she is very
handsome, indeed!" "I cannot agree with you," replied Mrs. Watson, rather
tartly; "her features are too irregular to be called handsome; good eyes,
perhaps, but her skin is coarse and her features insignificant. I cannot but
wonder at your taste." "Indeed, I must beg leave to differ from you, my dear
Mrs. Watson; her features may, perhaps, be rather smaller than real beauty
requires, but the dark glowing complexion—the brilliant eye—the redundant hair,
and rich red lips, these reminded me so strongly of yourself, that I cannot give
up admiring them, even though you will not agree with me." "Well, I don't know,
I never was told she was like me before," said Mrs. Watson, in a simpering tone,
which seemed to speak her propitiated by the incense thus offered to her. "Do
you know how she is situated?" added she, "It's a most unfortunate thing; she
was brought up so very much above her situation, in the most foolish, ill-
judging way, by an old uncle who died without leaving her farthing; and now she
is a beggar, without a sixpence to bless herself with, entirely dependent on her
brother's and my charity. I am sure I am sorry for the poor thing." "Yes,
indeed," replied Mr. Morgan, with a really feeling tone, "if that is the case,
she is, indeed, to be pitied. Poor thing you may well say." "The worst of it is,
that both her education, and I must say, her temper, unfit her for her future
situation; she must do something for herself—a situation as governess seems the
only thing—but with her fine lady notions, I don't know what to do." "If you are
wanting to get her such a situation," replied Mr. Morgan, "I think I know of one
which would probably suit her. Lady Fanny Allston is wanting a governess for her
little girl. The child is extremely delicate. I am in almost daily attendance on
it, and I know Lady Fanny always says, 'I don't care for accomplishments, Mr.
Morgan; my child can have masters, but it's manners I want—mind and manners—the
feelings—the look—and the behaviour of a gentlewoman.' Now would not this
exactly suit your sister? The salary is most liberal; and, altogether, I think
she might be very happy there." "Perhaps so, I don't know—you are very kind to
think of her—but, indeed, I am not sure that she would be at all suited for the
place—and how are we to get it for her. I am sure I don't know." "Oh! I shall
see her ladyship to-morrow, and can mention it to her; only give me authority to
ask, and you shall see how soon it will be arranged." "You are very kind—very
obliging—but, indeed, I cannot answer at once; I must speak to my husband about
it; but don't mention it to any one else, if you please—my intentions—my wishes
with regard to her, are quite confidentially entrusted to you, and I wish you
not to say any thing on the subject." Mr. Morgan acquiesced, but Emma did not in
this decision. She had, at first, felt extremely hurt that Mrs. Watson should
make her circumstances and situation the subject of unreserved discussion with a
man totally unconnected with her family—and that in so loud a tone as to be
perfectly audible to any one within a dozen yards of where she sat. But the
accent of real interest in Mr. Morgan's voice—and above all, the prospect which
he held up of a release from the galling thraldom of her present situation,
served to compensate for the want of delicacy in her sister-in-law. She
immediately formed a resolution to profit by the offer, if Mr. Morgan would
really make good his word; whilst meditating on this plan, she heard her sister-
in-law invited to dance again; and her quitting her seat, was immediately
followed by Mr. Morgan's turning into the room where she was sitting. She looked
up at him as he entered, and fancied she perceived a slight shade of
embarrassment on his countenance, as if he suspected she must have overheard his
recent conversation. He drew a chair by her side immediately, and began
complimenting her on her taste for silence and seclusion, as he could not
imagine that the two chess players, at the other table, had proved very
communicative companions. She readily admitted that they were too much engrossed
by their game, to have bestowed a word or thought on her; and then added, that,
in consequence of the quiet around her, she had discovered that others were
thinking and talking of her in her absence. She colored a little as she added:

"My sister informed you so fully of my circumstances, that it is no use to
affect reserve, and you mentioned a plan to her, which, it appears to me, would
suit me perfectly well, if you really can make the arrangements you talk of." "I
am sorry you overheard what, I fear, may have appeared impertinent to you,"
replied he, with a grave and earnest kindness of manner, which would have suited
a parent. "But Mrs. Watson is accustomed to speak confidentially to me of family
matters; and though I certainly have no right to intermeddle in your concerns,
yet permit me to say, no one could have the pleasure of conversing with you for
even half an hour, without feeling a degree of interest which would certainly
lead them to do every thing in their power to serve you." Emma smiled and
replied,

"If you really want to serve me, Mr. Morgan, the first step to it must be
leaving off complimentary speeches; keep them for those whom you have no other
means of serving, and speak to the point with me." He smiled likewise, and
rejoined,

"Well, I will keep them for Mrs. Watson, she will not reject them with so much
scorn." "Hush, I will allow nothing personal," said Emma, "I am Mrs. Watson's
inmate, and must not listen to reflections upon her. But tell me, if you know,
exactly what are the particular qualities required by Lady Fanny for the little
girl's governess?" "First youth, health, and good spirits—lady-like manners, a
cultivated mind—a thorough acquaintance with English literature, a taste for the
fine arts, and a love both of poetry and nature. Such, as well as I remember,
was the catalogue she gave me, and to that she had no objection to add
accomplishments, but on this subject she is not particular. She knows that
though a woman may perform as well as an amateur musician, may draw or paint
pleasingly, and may be tolerably well acquainted with modern languages, it is
not more than one in ten who can be so thoroughly grounded in these
accomplishments as to be really able to teach them with any effect—one subject
of study is as much as most women can compass, and those who pretend to more are
most likely to fail in all." Emma listened in silence, and wondered mentally
whether the entire oblivion of everything relative to principles—morals—and
religion were the result of indifference to such subjects on the part of Lady
Fanny, or Mr. Morgan. "You are silent, Miss Watson," continued he, after
surveying, for a moment, her downcast look and thoughtful expression. "Am I to
suppose that my catalogue does not please you—or are you doubtful of my
accuracy?" "No, indeed, I was considering my own sufficiency for such a task."
"I do not imagine you need doubt that, so far as my judgment goes." "But that
must be a very little way, Mr. Morgan, the experience of this evening cannot be
considered sufficient by those who will require information on the subject,
however entirely it may satisfy yourself." "You give me credit for less
penetration than I would claim, if you suppose my experience is limited to this
evening. You possibly have never seen me before, but we have often met,
nevertheless—you did not know that I am a particular friend of your little
niece, and deep in her confidence." "Well, I will allow you as much penetration
as you choose to claim on this subject—meantime, tell me when will the situation
be vacant at Lady Fanny's?" "In about two months, I believe; I do not know
exactly, but if you will authorise me, I will make all necessary enquiries for
you." "You may do so, if you please, without absolutely committing me; and when
I know all the particulars I can consult my brother, to whom I hold myself
responsible, and whose approbation I must, of course, have." At this juncture,
the chess table was broken up, and Elizabeth joined Emma. Mr. Millar walked away
to make the _amende honorable_ to those ladies young and old, whom he had
grievously neglected whilst devoting himself to Miss Watson. Elizabeth looked
very well pleased with her game; but she did not seem disposed to talk; at this
moment the noise in the dancing-room attracted their attention, and they moved
to the door to look on. The party were going through Sir Roger de Coverley, in a
high state of excitement, especially some of the young gentleman, of whom Mr.
Alfred Freemantle was the most conspicuous. He rushed forwards with fury, and
rather tore than ran round the figure; at length, when advancing to meet
Margaret Watson, who was, like himself, dancing with more vigour than grace,
they ran against each other, her foot slipt, and she fell completely into his
arms. Not satisfied with this exploit, she made believe to faint, and he was
forced to support her out of the circle: one or two people offered to assist,
but he rejected their efforts, and half carried, half led her to the little
drawing-room, near which her sisters were standing. Elizabeth and Emma tried to
be of service, but, in fact, there was nothing to do; she would have been quite
well would she only have held up her head, and sat upright; but whilst she chose
to recline on Mr. Freemantle's shoulder—and allow him to keep his arms round her
waist, they could do nothing but look on and feel very much ashamed of her. Emma
went to procure a glass of water from the side-board, and meeting Mr. Morgan,
asked him to come and see if anything was the matter with her sister, as she
hoped his presence would be an inducement to Margaret to resume the use of her
senses, and leave off the hugging in which she was indulging Alfred. Mr. Morgan
accompanied Emma, and arrived just in time to see Margaret, after making a
slight effort to sit up, sink again on her companion's breast in an attitude of
the greatest exhaustion. Throwing an arch glance at Emma as he took the glass of
water from her hand, Mr. Morgan said, in an extremely plaintive tone, "Poor
thing—that is a complete faint—something must be done for her," and without the
smallest warning, he dashed the cold water over her face and neck, plentifully
bedewing the young gentleman's coat and embroidered waistcoat at the same time.
Margaret started up instantly, and so did Alfred, each shaking off the water,
and looking excessively annoyed. Margaret was as red as fire, and whilst dabbing
up the drops from her neck and cheeks with her pocket-handkerchief, she
exclaimed—

"Good gracious, doctor, is that the way you cure young ladies in a fainting
fit." "Precisely so, my dear Miss Margaret," returned he, laughing; "and you are
a splendid example of the beneficial effects of my practice. What can be more
different, from the languid state in which I found you, than the animation and
colour which you now display." "Upon my honour, Mr. Morgan," murmured Alfred,
after he had done his best towards getting himself in good order again, after
the share he had enjoyed of the sprinkling, "if that is the way you treat
gentlemen, I must really call you to account, sir;" and in a lower tone, he
murmured something further about "satisfaction and honour," which was quite
indistinct. "Oh, my dear sir," replied the doctor, quite blandly, "the libation
was not intended for you; though your proximity to Miss Margaret made you come
in for a portion of it, I assure you I did not mean to throw it away on you at
all." Annie now entered to enquire for Margaret's safety, and expressed herself
rejoiced to find that she was apparently well, and without injury. She had
feared, she said, from Mr. Morgan being called in, that something very serious
had happened. "Instead of which," whispered he to Miss Millar, "it was only
something a little comic. I wish you had seen it, Miss Annie." It was soon after
this time for the party to separate, Alfred Freemantle insisting on seeing the
fair Margaret home, after her accident, and tenderly supporting her through the
street. They had not very far to go—but Emma, who was behind them, saw, if she
was not very much mistaken, that he had his arm round her waist the whole way,
and how Margaret, a woman engaged to another, could allow of such familiarity
she could not understand. She went to bed, firmly resolving if Mr. Morgan's
report from Lady Fanny Allston was favorable, to speak immediately to her
brother, and arrange everything for her removing there. She thought, for full
five minutes, on what Miss Osborne would say, when she heard of her plans,
whether she would renew her invitation for her to spend some time with her after
Easter; and she spent double that time in considering whether, if she did, and
she should again meet Mr. Howard, his manners would be warm or cold, how he
would receive her, and what he would think of her undertaking such a situation.
The result of her meditations was that she would write to Miss Osborne, and
explain to her, her plans and wishes, asking her, in case she failed in
procuring this situation as governess to Miss Allston, to use her interest in
finding her some other suitable to her abilities. This determination she put in
practice the next day, and her mind felt relieved when it was done. CHAPTER XII.
Mrs. Watson was so excessively cross after the excitement of last night, that
Emma's post in the nursery was really a subject of great self-congratulation to
her, for though she did sometimes intrude, and was sure to worry when she did
come, still it was better to be secluded from her for several hours as was now
the case. In the afternoon, as Emma was walking in a quiet lane on the outskirts
of the town, with her little niece, for it was now considered a regular part of
her duty to take the little girl out for exercise, she was met by Mr. Morgan
returning home on horseback. He immediately stopped to speak to her, and
dismounting, placed himself by her side, and proceeded to tell her the result of
his mission that morning to Lady Fanny Allston's. He had been very successful:
her ladyship had expressed herself very well satisfied with his representations,
and had empowered him to say that she should like an interview with Miss Watson
on the first convenient opportunity. He proceeded to relate to her all the
particulars as to salary, the comfort and the peculiarities of the situation,
described the little girl, and, in short, entered into the most minute
particulars relative to it. Emma, considering him as a man old enough to be her
father, and thinking no evil herself, felt no hesitation in listening to him, or
allowing him to walk beside her. She certainly would not have chosen to confide
in him, but since Jane had imparted her situation, she did not scruple to avail
herself of the advantage which that knowledge offered to her. They walked a
considerable time, for engrossed by the conversation, she did not reflect where
they were going, until Janetta's complaints of fatigue, and entreaties to be
carried, reminded her that they were a long way from home. Emma prepared to
comply with the request of the child in such a manner as showed him immediately
that the exertion was habitual with her, but he interposed. "Surely Janetta you
do not want to make your pretty aunt ill," said he to the child; "indeed I
consider myself, Miss Watson, called on to prevent that; it is enough to kill
you. Janetta shall ride on my horse, that will do as well, will it not?" But
Janetta was afraid of the horse, and cried for aunt Emma to carry her. "She is
so very light," said Emma, "I assure you I can do it with ease." But Mr. Morgan
would not allow of it; he took the little girl in his own arms and they turned
their steps homeward. The lane in which they were walking opened on the little
garden behind Mr. Watson's house, at which Mr. Morgan privately rejoiced, whilst
Emma, unconscious that she had done anything in the least imprudent or
remarkable in allowing him to walk with her, felt no other emotion than
satisfaction at getting Janetta quietly home. She wished much to speak to her
brother that evening about Lady Fanny, but he returned to the office after
dinner, and she was obliged to postpone it. Margaret and Mrs. Watson had an
invitation out to tea that night, and in consequence, Emma and Elizabeth spent a
comfortable evening together. The former told her sister of her plans, her
hopes, and her walk with Mr. Morgan. In the first of these she sympathised
sincerely, but when she heard of the latter she looked horrified. "Surely Emma
you never could be so excessively imprudent! Walk _tête-à-tête_ with Mr.
Morgan—what could you be thinking of! Did any one see you?" "I do not know, I
never thought about it—our meeting was quite accidental, Elizabeth, and as he
wanted to speak to me, why should I not take that opportunity? I cannot see
anything wrong in it: why he is old enough to be my father." "Your father! what
nonsense! he is a single man, and a man at least six ladies want to catch. I
hope you were not seen by any one, for depend upon it if you were, the account
of your walk will be all over the town to-morrow, and then you will get into a
pretty scrape," said Elizabeth with a look of sincere commiseration. "Why, what
harm have I done, Elizabeth?—I am sure I meant none." "You will have put all the
single ladies of Croydon in a passion, that's all, and made yourself the subject
of very unpleasant scandal." "Well I am very sorry," replied Emma quite humbly;
"but as I did not go on purpose to meet Mr. Morgan, and I had little Janetta
with me, I never thought of there being any harm in it at all." They were
interrupted in their conversation by the entrance of Robert, followed by a
supper tray with oysters and porter, for he was determined to enjoy himself in a
comfortable way when his wife was out. When he had discussed the oysters and was
composedly seated with his feet on the fender and a glass of hot brandy and
water in his hand, Emma ventured to open the case to him, and inform him of what
she had learnt from Mr. Morgan, and her wishes with regard to engaging in the
situation he mentioned. Robert agreed to it very readily; he never had intended
to keep a nursery-governess for his daughter. The trouble of educating her,
would fall on Jane alone, if Emma left them, but the expense of his sister's
maintenance came out of his pocket—therefore, though Mrs. Watson wished to
retain her for the value of assistance which she well knew she could obtain
under no other circumstances, Robert was quite willing to part with her, as it
would be a certain saving to himself, and would give additional trouble only to
his wife. He, therefore, gave her his entire approbation, commending her warmly
for thinking of exerting herself, as it was the duty of every individual to do;
and even promised, with great liberality, to make her a present of a new cloak
and bonnet, when she left his house, that her dress might shew her to advantage.
At the same time, he gave her strict injunctions not to forget his interests
when she was there; to recollect that it was always the duty of each one of the
family to help the others forward; and therefore, if, on any occasion, Lady
Fanny wanted an agent for her landed property, or needed the advice of a
respectable lawyer, it became Emma's duty to say all she could for him. Emma
promised she would take every opportunity in her power to attend to his
injunctions; and soon after this, the girls went to bed without waiting to see
the others on their return home. The next morning was ushered in with a violent
domestic storm—such as she never remembered to have witnessed before. How it
began, Emma did not know, but she was startled, when quietly sitting in the
nursery with her niece, by the sound of loud screams which greatly alarmed her.
Little Janetta looked up and said, very innocently, "Mama is in a fit—do you
hear? I dare say papa is cross to her." Anxious to know the cause of the uproar,
she ran down stairs, and entering the parlour, the door of which was open, she
saw Mrs. Watson stretched on the sofa in a violent fit of hysterics, whilst
Elizabeth and Margaret were vainly endeavouring to hold her hands and arms,
which she threw about with convulsive energy, whilst her feet kept up a
perpetual agitation in a way as far removed from elegance as possible. As her
head was turned away from the door, Emma's entrance was unobserved, and her
light step was quite unheard by Jane, who continued to scream vociferously.
Fortunately, at that moment, one of the maids observed Mr. Morgan on the
opposite side of the street, and running after him, he was soon brought back and
introduced to the scene. Whilst he was applying sal volatile and cold water, and
soothingly holding the lady's hand, her excitement gradually began to subside;
and at length, she was sufficiently recovered to open her eyes and look round
her. But the moment she saw Emma standing near, her languid gestures were
suddenly changed into looks of rage, and starting up, exclaiming:

"You little ungrateful vixen, I'll teach you to treat me so." She aimed a
violent blow at her, which, had not Mr. Morgan interposed, and with one arm
drawn Emma back, whilst on the other he received the slap himself, would
probably have been successful in its object. "My dear girl," he whispered to
Emma, as he withdrew the arm he had thrown round her waist to protect her; "you
had better leave the room; I must manage her myself." She readily obeyed the
injunction, whilst the doctor, seating Mrs. Watson on the sofa, placed himself
by her side; and, still holding her hand in his, he turned to Elizabeth and
enquired, in a subdued and melancholy tone, suitable to the occasion, how this
sad affair commenced. Elizabeth's account was not very clear—and, indeed, she
was so puzzled and frightened, that had she really understood the case, she
would have been at a loss how to explain herself. The facts were these: After
breakfast, whilst Elizabeth had been out of the room, Robert had informed his
wife that Emma was trying for the situation of governess to Lady Fanny Allston's
daughter, with his entire approbation. This announcement was a severe blow to
Jane, who did not at all like losing her services. She argued hard against it,
representing the impossibility in her delicate state of health, of her doing
justice to Janetta or attending at all to her education; the certainty that no
other terms would they get a governess so cheaply, and the probability that the
household expenses would shortly be greatly diminished by the marriage, not only
of Margaret, but of Elizabeth likewise: but it was all in vain; the advantage
was all to himself—the evil only to his wife—so Robert was firm; and even when
Jane burst into a passion of tears, and began to shew symptoms of hysterics, he
was still obdurate. Suddenly the thought occurred to her, how did Emma learn
that the situation was to be procured?—and, at this point, began Elizabeth's
knowledge of the affair, for she entered the room just in time to hear the
question and to answer it. She explained that Emma had accidentally overheard
their conversation, and, consequently, questioned Mr. Morgan about it. This
announcement had put the climax to the lady's rage, and brought on the screams
and convulsions which had occasioned so much disturbance. Mr. Morgan, however,
knew how to manage her. "My dear madam," said he, in a softly soothing voice;
"you know I have forbidden this violent excitement; to people of your nervous
temperament, it is decidedly hurtful, and should be avoided. I must give you
something to calm you. Miss Watson will be so kind as to bring me a glass of
cold water—quite pure water." "Ah! my dear doctor," sighed the patient, "how
could you use me so—join in a conspiracy against me. I _am_ astonished, I did
not expect this from you!" "I, my dear Mrs. Watson! What have I done to deserve
such censure?—surely, you are under a delusion! I do not understand you." "You
betrayed about Lady Fanny, when I charged you not, you have been the means of
setting my husband cruelly against me; making him take part with that little
mischief-making vixen, Emma—"

"There, there," interrupted he, placing one finger on her pulse, "you are
agitating yourself again; I must forbid such excessive excitement. Thank you,
Miss Watson," taking the glass from Elizabeth, "now please young ladies, open
the window a hair's breadth or so, and then leave the room. I always like to
have the patient to myself." Then taking a little case from his pocket, he said:
"I have a fine sedative powder here, which I shall give you to calm your
nerves," then proceeding to mix something in the glass—which it required a good
deal of faith to believe was anything but powdered sugar, he commanded her to
sip a little at intervals, and hold it as long as possible in her mouth without
swallowing it. Having thus succeeded in stopping her tongue, he proceeded to
explain the circumstances of his making Emma acquainted with what he had
proposed, taking particular care to allow no blame to rest on her, and saying
every thing he could to flatter and soothe Mrs. Watson. "And you see," added he,
"was I not quite right in thinking she ought to be removed from you—this may
happen again, and it is really too much for you—do you not feel I am right—I am
sure your own good sense must prove it—you cannot speak, I know, but press my
hand if you agree with me." It is presumed the pressure was given, as Mr. Morgan
seemed satisfied—he raised her hand and looked at it. "How each slender finger
trembles," said he—certainly, there were few who would have applied such an
epithet to her plump and powerful hand. "Indeed, it's a very naughty hand,"
added he, tapping it playfully with the tips of his fingers. "It hit me very
hard upon my arm—the hand should be made to pay a forfeit for that; how shall I
punish it?" She smiled languidly. "I was so provoked, doctor, you must forgive
me." "Forgive you? oh yes, dear madam, only you know, when a lady strikes a
gentleman she ought to pay the penalty attached," advancing his face very close
to her cheek. "Oh, fie, doctor," cried she, affecting to be quite shocked, "you
are really too bad,—I am ashamed of you quite!" a form of denunciation which
would be, in nine cases out of ten, considered as positive encouragement. At
this moment the door opened and Robert entered the room. "Doctor, I say, as Mrs.
Watson appears a little better just now, I want to speak to you in my room for a
moment." Mr. Morgan followed him directly; with a sort of dubious feeling as to
what was to follow; but he felt rather relieved by the interruption, as he was
conscious he had carried his tenderness quite as far as was necessary for the
good of his patient. Robert wanted to learn from himself about the situation at
Lady Fanny's, and questioned him with some interest on the subject; for in a
case where his own interest was in no way involved, he was not exactly an unkind
brother. He felt on the whole a tolerable share of anxiety that his sister
should be as safe and comfortable as circumstances would admit, and was glad to
hear from Mr. Morgan a very favorable account of the family in question. At
length, having satisfied all the fraternal doubts and scruples of Mr. Watson, he
returned to the lady, and was immediately assailed by a shower of questions
relative to what her husband had wanted with him. He only smiled and said it was
nothing bad, but he was far too much used to the enquiries and curiosity of
ladies not to be expert at baffling such an attack as hers. "And now, my dear
Mrs. Watson," said he, "I must insist on your keeping your mind easy, and not
worrying yourself about such things as the occasion of this attack, it is of
serious importance, indeed it is." "But, doctor, how can I keep my mind easy,
when I see that little ungrateful thing there, Emma, coming round my husband and
persuading him to contradict me. Is it not enough to provoke a saint, to find
one's own husband turned against one by his sister, and that after all the
kindness I have shown her; but I knew how it would be from the first, that I
did; I always said so from the time those girls entered the house." "It is very
probable, your penetration, my dear friend, might lead you to that conclusion,
and you may be right; but in that case, is it not satisfactory to you that there
is an immediate prospect of their being removed. Will not Miss Margaret soon be
married—does not all the town see that George Millar intends soon, if the lady
prove willing, to ally himself to your family. And supposing Emma is likewise
removed, you will have nothing left to vex you." "That may be very true, doctor,
but I do not think it is the case; if Emma would only be tractable and obedient,
she would be rather useful than otherwise; and really she might be quite a
comfort if she were better tempered and more accommodating. But to go and say
such things, to be bent on having her own way, without caring about my
convenience—to leave me with that child in my hands, never considering my
fragile health, and the miseries I suffer, this is really more than I can bear,
it puts me in a nervous tremor which is very bad for me. See how my hand shakes
still." "I see," said the gentleman, contenting himself this time with simply
looking at the hand extended to him. "But now I must wish you good
morning—remember my prescriptions and pray keep quiet." The rest of the day was
spent by Mrs. Watson shut up _tête-à-tête_ with Margaret, bewailing her hard
fate in having such a husband and such a tiresome sister; she would not go down
to dinner, but indulged in a quiet little regale in her own bed-room of some
dainties of a very superior order to the plain boiled beef and suet pudding,
which was the family meal. Her husband took refuge with some friends, and
Elizabeth and Emma spent another quiet evening together, during which Elizabeth,
with open-hearted warmth, confided to her sister how very much she liked George
Millar, and how sanguine were her hopes that George Millar did not dislike her.
She had seen a great deal more of him than Emma, for their walk to the farm had
only been the precursor of several others to different places, and they had
enjoyed them all exceedingly. He had not actually proposed to her yet, but he
had both said and done things which led her to expect that such a termination to
their acquaintance was in his contemplation. All this was truly the subject of
rejoicing to Emma, especially as she was convinced from what she had both seen
and heard of George Millar, that he was not a man to draw back from an implied
engagement, and hold himself privileged to carry his actions to any point of
particularity, provided he never committed himself by word. It was true, had it
been _her_ taste to be consulted, she would have preferred a quieter person, one
more inclined to study and literature, and in every respect more refined; but
Elizabeth would indeed be well matched, and the happiness of thinking this, led
her to reflect with pleasure even on their visit at Croydon, painful as it had
been to herself in most respects. CHAPTER XIII. The next morning was ushered in
with less of domestic tempest than the last; Mrs. Watson was tired of her own
room, and quite ready to come down stairs and mix in the world; she was
perfectly amiable to-day, with only the drawback of being a little sulky to her
husband, and exceedingly snappish to his sisters, except to Emma, whom she did
not condescend to address at all. Emma thought this silence decidedly better
than the form of invective which was the usual address to her, so that on the
whole, the day passed with tolerable comfort and peace to those concerned. That
afternoon, Mrs. Watson having occasion to send a note to an acquaintance
residing nearly a mile from the town, she chose to employ Emma as a messenger,
ordering her at the same time, to be sure and not allow Janetta to over fatigue
herself, but to carry her if the poor child was tired. The way led them through
pleasant fields, and as the aunt and niece were quietly sauntering along, the
little girl filling her hands with daisies, or stopping to watch the birds
flitting in the hedgerow, they were again overtaken by Mr. Morgan, who seemed
prepared to join their walk. Emma coloured deeply, and was considerably
embarrassed by the recollection of what Elizabeth had said about him. They had
passed his house on their way, and she could not but suspect that his joining
them was the result of design, not accident. With the vanity common to men, he
completely misinterpreted the blushes and embarrassment of the pretty girl who
interested him so much, and he fancied he was giving her peculiar pleasure,
when, after enquiring how far they were going, he assured her that his way led
in the same direction, and that he should be most happy to escort her. Had she
not been charged with the note from Jane, she would immediately have turned
back, but she had no recourse, and as she had not courage to desire him to leave
her, she saw nothing to be done but to submit in as quiet and unconcerned a
manner as possible. "I hope," said he presently, "you do not feel any the worse
for the excitement and agitation which you went through yesterday." She thanked
him rather coldly, and replied she was very well. But he was not to be so
repulsed. He was bent on making himself agreeable to her, and with a quick
perception of the readiest means, long practice, and no scruples on the subject,
it was no wonder that he succeeded. There was just the proper air of interest,
joined to a respectful deference, at the same time that he showed by his
intimate knowledge of the family concerns, that he was completely in the
confidence of her sister-in-law, and deserving to be treated as a friend of the
family. The sympathy which he seemed endeavouring vainly to suppress, and the
knowledge of her situation and difficulties, which he allowed her to discover he
possessed, all tended to throw her off her guard, and to abate the cold
indifference with which she meant to have treated him. He was so kind—so
considerately and properly kind—and then both her brother and sister had allowed
him to be so much connected with their affairs, that it was impossible to
repulse him, and gradually, she hardly knew how, she found herself led on to
speak to him with openness, which he in reality little deserved. Mr. Morgan was
a man of no principles, whose ruling passion was vanity—and this passion with
him took one particular turn; he liked to be beloved by all the women of his
acquaintance. The self-complacency excited by the worship of a woman, was to him
the most agreeable feeling in the world. He did not flirt merely for an idle
amusement, like Tom Musgrove, with an entire indifference to the feelings he
excited; but he made downright serious, but clandestine love to nearly all the
good-looking women with whom his practice brought him acquainted. He liked of
all things to watch the gradual growth of an ardent love in the unsuspecting
heart, and more than one interesting girl had had occasion to rue the day when
illness had first brought her acquainted with Mr. Morgan—more than one young
wife had been hurried abruptly from the neighbourhood, as was whispered, because
her husband thought her too fond of the Doctor. Yet so well had he managed, and
so general was the admiration he excited, that _he_ never bore a fraction of the
blame which was unsparingly bestowed on the victims of his arts. This was the
man, who struck by Emma's beauty, and seeing her helpless situation, had formed
a deliberate plan to gain her affections, though what was to follow when she was
thus added to his list of triumphs, he had not quite determined. One thing was
certain, he did not mean to marry her; but the necessary evils to which he saw
she was exposed, laid her he imagined, peculiarly open to temptation, and he
certainly indulged in hopes and speculations, for which even the phlegmatic
Robert would have kicked him out of the house, had they chanced to come to his
knowledge. One great object in his attempt to remove her to Lady Fanny Allston's
was, that it would give him so great an advantage over her. Lady Fanny and her
daughter were both invalides, and he was in the habit of visiting them every
day. This, could he place Emma there, was an important step, as it would bring
him in the most advantageous position before her eyes. She would see no one
else. Shut up for weeks together with an ailing child, her only recreation being
an hour's drive in the pony chaise every morning, she would soon learn to look
forward to his visit as the great event of the day. He should see her eyes
sparkle at his approach, and feel her hand gently tremble as he pressed it. Such
had been the case with her predecessor, and now that the poor girl had lost her
health and spirits from disappointed affections and heart-sickening anxiety, he
was coldly turning to seek another to supply her place. Little did Emma, as she
listened to his sentiments of sympathy, his professions of philosophy, or his
insinuations of warm interest, suspect the real motive of his actions and his
friendship. His age, so much greater than hers, prevented her supposing he would
feel attachment, and her own preference for Mr. Howard was a safeguard to her
own affections. After conversing some time with great apparent interest on the
subject of education, as appropriate to her peculiar calling, he gradually
turned it in an almost imperceptible way to the scene of yesterday. The
necessity of subduing passion, and the dreadful effects of it when unrestrained,
naturally brought on a comment on the conduct of her sister-in-law. It was
shocking, he protested, to think of such violence; it made his heart bleed to
imagine what a mild and gentle-tempered girl must undergo when dependent on such
a relative. Hers was a heavy hand as he had experienced; he was delighted that
he had warded off one blow from her, he only wished he could more effectually
protect her from the other hardships of her lot. Emma assured him that such a
scene had never occurred before, and probably would never do so again; that he
greatly magnified the evils of her situation, and that she really did not
require such intense sympathy as he seemed inclined to bestow on her. This, so
far from stopping him, only brought on a more decided eulogium upon the
sweetness of temper which could endure such tyranny, and the self-denial which
must be practised daily to live in peace with one who could practise it. How
much farther his compliments would have carried him is not known, as they
arrived at the lodge-gate, and Emma was obliged to interrupt him to deliver the
note which formed her errand. Now she expected to part company, but to her great
surprise, she found on turning her steps homewards, that he was still at her
elbow, and that he seemed resolved to continue the conversation as well as the
walk. What was still more provoking, Janetta claimed his assistance to carry her
again, and Emma had no alternative but to continue with him; and as he caught up
the child with glee, and an appearance of positive enjoyment. "This, my dear
Miss Emma," said he, "is a trouble which, I trust, you will not long have to
endure; at Lady Fanny's you will not be expected to do any thing which would be
more properly entrusted to a servant. You will be Miss Alston's companion, not
her slave; and I shall, indeed, rejoice to see it so." Emma thanked him with a
sincerity rather greater, perhaps, than his own, but she could not help heartily
wishing that he would demonstrate his interest in some other way than in walking
home with her; she was in continual dread of meeting some one who would know
her; for, though she really saw no harm in it herself, yet after what Elizabeth
had said, she was afraid of being misinterpreted or misjudged. He parted from
her at the entrance of the town, and Emma returned in some trepidation
homewards. The whole town of Croydon was, shortly after, thrown into a ferment,
by the announcement that George Millar, the rich, the popular, the good-looking
George Millar, was engaged—actually engaged to be married to Elizabeth Watson.
It was so extraordinary, so incredible, so unheard of, that a young woman like
Elizabeth Watson—not so very young—for she was at least thirty, they said, if
not more—who had never been handsome, and was now decidedly faded—without money,
for every one knew she was dependent on her brother—in short, with none of the
requisites for matrimony, except a pleasing person, an amiable and unselfish
disposition, good temper, and a most affectionate heart, that such a girl should
have presumed to try for George Millar's hand! and should have had the
effrontery to accept him when he offered! She was a stranger, an interloper—and
for her to come, and thus carry off in triumph, their best beau, it was too bad;
as the oldest Miss Morgan observed to one of her intimate friends, she was sure
there was more than they understood in the business; and she should like to know
where they _were_ to look for husbands if their fellow townsmen deserted them in
that way for strange faces. It was the more hard upon Miss Morgan, because she
had been so very kind to the children; she had more than once asked them to
drink tea, and often kissed her hand to them from the drawing-room window. Their
houses were exactly opposite, and it would be too much to be forced to sit in
contemplation of another mistress ruling in the house where she had long
expected to reign supreme. It was the elder young ladies of the neighbourhood
who felt the affront most keenly; and were most bitter against Miss Watson. They
had long regarded Mr. Millar as the lawful property of one of themselves; ever
since the second month after his wife's death; and, unfortunately for their
peace of mind, Mrs. Turner's habit of flattering every one, had given rise to
hopes in their minds, which it now seemed never would be realised. The younger
ladies felt it much less acutely; for, as a widower and a man verging on forty,
they regarded George Millar as a little past his youthful and interesting days,
but they felt for their friends and their sisters, and sympathised in their
indignation. Had Miss Watson been a stranger, in reality, the affair would have
been more endurable; had she been married from Winston, for instance, they would
have welcomed her to Croydon with tolerable cordiality—nay, perhaps, with
absolute enthusiasm. She might have been pictured then in their imaginations
with no colours less brilliant than those belonging to a gay wedding, and making
her first appearance in new finery, she would probably have won popularity
immediately. But now, the case was very different; it had all passed before
their own eyes, so they naturally suspected something quite wrong, and Mrs.
Watson was involved in the blame—as it was supposed she must have aided to win
the point by some skilful manœuvring. It was so unnatural, so improbable, that,
out of four sisters, three should be engaged to be married, that Miss Morgan
declared, over and over again, that she could not, and would not believe it
happened in the due course of events. There must be something wrong about those
Watsons, and she was determined to find it out. Elizabeth was very unsuspicious
of the storm her engagement had raised, but went about as usual with a smiling
face, looking forward to the termination of her residence with her brother, with
peculiar satisfaction—and rejoicing especially, because she had a plan in her
head for the advantage of Emma. This was no less than that Emma should reside
with them; and since she was resolved against spending her life in idleness,
that she should consent to superintend the education of Mr. Millar's little
girls—for which task, Elizabeth felt she was more competent than herself. In the
meantime, she did not mention it to her, until their own plans were arranged
with a little more certainty, and the time of their wedding fixed; at present,
they could only say that it should not take place for a couple of months at
least. A day or two after this grand event becoming known, Mr. Morgan called on
Mrs. Watson and found her little girl in the room. After praising and caressing
the child, he asked her if she should like to ride a donkey; and turning to the
mother with a winning smile, he added, that he had a very beautiful Spanish
donkey, for which, at present, he had no occasion—that it was quite at the
service of her charming daughter—for whom, he was convinced, the exercise would
be peculiarly salutary. He, therefore, begged she would make use of it as her
own. Mrs. Watson gratefully assented; to-morrow Janetta should have a ride—but
the little girl cried out for to-day—she would go to-day—aunt Emma must take her
out to-day—and she always had her own way with her mother—and as Mr. Morgan was
merely following out a concerted plan, she of course, carried her point; and,
whilst she went up-stairs to make her aunt get ready for the excursion, the
gentleman hurried away to give orders to prepare the donkey. In about half an
hour, Janetta had the delight of seeing the promised animal at the door, with a
beautiful new saddle and white bridle, and she clapped her hands with ecstasy as
the doctor's foot-boy placed her on, hardly sitting sufficiently still to allow
him to fasten the strap in front of the Spanish saddle. Emma felt extremely
reluctant to go; she feared Mr. Morgan might again join them, and tried hard to
persuade Margaret to accompany her; but Margaret "hated walking like a nurse-
maid after the child," and Elizabeth being out, Emma had no alternative but to
set out alone. The foot-boy said his master had ordered him to go with them to
see how the donkey went, and to save Miss Watson any trouble. Emma rejoiced at
this announcement—although it seemed to her, so unreasonable an encroachment on
Mr. Morgan's obliging temper, that she half dreaded lest her sister-in-law
should decline the lad's services. Mrs. Watson, however, accepted it all as if,
in allowing the favour to be confirmed, she were in reality the giver, instead
of the receiver of the benefit. She seemed rather to expect that he would be
grateful that his donkey had the honour of carrying her little girl. Emma's
anticipations proved perfectly correct, for they met Mr. Morgan again, and he
again, uninvited, prepared to accompany them. She resolved that this should not
occur another time, as she determined at once to speak to her brother,
representing how extremely unpleasant it was for her to be daily sent out
walking where she was exposed to be joined by any one in this way, and begging
that in future the duty of walking out with Janetta might devolve on one of the
maids, when neither of her sisters could accompany her. If it had not been that
she feared it was wrong, she would have enjoyed the walk extremely, as the day
was fresh and invigorating, whilst her companion was particularly pleasant. She
found his conversation both instructive and amusing, and as Janetta, on her
donkey, kept a little a-head of them, they were free from the incessant calls on
her attention with which the child usually interrupted them. Their _tête-à-tête_
did not, as usual, conclude at the suburbs of the town, for emboldened probably
by habit, he walked straight home with her, with only the precaution of placing
himself on one side of Janetta; and lifting the child off at the door, he
carried her in triumph to her mother. Emma expected and hoped that some notice
would be taken of his having accompanied them, as she rather hesitated about
introducing the subject; but Mrs. Watson seemed satisfied with believing that it
was a refined compliment to herself through her child, as if a man of his age
could take such pleasure in the society of a girl not yet out of babyhood. Emma
was therefore firmly resolved to speak to Robert on the subject, and that
afternoon, finding him alone in the parlour, she, with some hesitation,
introduced the point. He heard her with considerable surprise. "Well," said he,
when she seemed to have done, "what do you want or expect me to do? what's all
this to me, child?" "I want you, brother, to persuade Jane not to send me out
without a maid or some other companion, that I may not be exposed to long walks
with him." "But what harm does Morgan do you, I should like to know—are you
afraid he will eat you up—or what do you fear?" enquired he, in a very
discouraging tone. "I am afraid it may excite observation and unpleasant
reports, if I am seen repeatedly walking with a single man," replied poor Emma,
not liking to say that she thought wrong what Robert seemed to regard as so
innocent. "Pooh, pooh, child—don't be absurd and prudish—there's no use in
setting yourself up for an immaculate young lady. I don't believe but that you
like it all the time, and are only wanting a little domestic persecution to make
you more interesting. I am not going to indulge you, so you must find out some
other way of making a martyr of yourself." "Indeed, you are quite mistaken; but
I do not think it right to throw myself in the way of any man as I am obliged to
do with regard to him, and I would rather not go out of the house for a month
than continue, as I have done, meeting him." "Morgan's a very good kind of
fellow, and will do you no harm," repeated Robert, as if rather at a loss what
else to say; and Emma, thinking she saw symptoms of wavering in his tone, began
to hope that she should carry her point, when Jane entered the room, and her
husband at once appealed to her. Emma's astonishment was great at the way in
which she took it. She had expected she would be angry at her walking with Mr.
Morgan; but that was not the case; her indignation seemed only roused by the
fact of her wanting to evade the walking at all: she was in a great passion at
this. "A very pretty thing indeed, Miss Emma Watson—a very pretty thing, that
you are to be fancying yourself too grand and too great to walk out with my
child—want a servant sent after you, do you—I wonder what your ladyship will
want next—upon my word, for such a little saucy minx as you, to be giving
yourself such airs, is rather too good, I must say." "I have no wish to give
myself airs—I only want—" but she was not allowed to finish the sentence. "You
don't wish _this_, and you don't wish _that_—and you only want something quite
different from what I order—I see what it is, Miss, I know you want to be
mistress, that's all—and if Mr. Morgan does walk with you, where's the harm of
that?—are you such a conceited creature as to fancy it is your beauty which
charms him?—depend upon it, _you_ are very safe with him. It's for my child that
he comes—out of compliment to me, of course—so don't you go pluming yourself
upon his attentions, or expecting anything to come of that—you are greatly
mistaken if you think him in love with you, I can answer for it." "I never, for
a moment, supposed such a thing," replied Emma, with a spirit, which was roused
by her sister's injustice; "but I am sure that it is not correct or respectable
to be walking repeatedly alone with any gentleman, even one of Mr. Morgan's age
and character; and I have a _right_, whilst I live with you, to have my
respectability of appearance attended to." Mrs. Watson stood with a face of
scarlet and her mouth open, contemplating Emma as she spoke with unaccustomed
energy—she seemed almost to mistrust her senses at hearing such words, but
Emma's firmness quite appalled her, and she actually did not know what to say.
Seeing she was silent Emma added:

"Therefore, for the present, I must beg that when one of my sisters cannot
accompany me, you will send the maid in my place; when in company with any one
else, I shall have no objection to walk with Janetta as usual." "Oh, well," said
Jane after some hesitation, "as you wish it so much, I will see what I can do,
and perhaps Martha may walk with Janetta to-morrow." Emma thanked her, and the
entrance of her sisters, fortunately prevented farther discussion. Emma was
rather surprised that she heard no more from Lady Fanny Allston, but the fact
was, her ladyship was ill, and quite incapable of exerting herself in any way;
therefore her engagement with Emma was forced to remain unsettled, until she
recovered sufficient strength to think again. Relieved from the care of
Janetta's walk the next day, Emma enjoyed the treat of accompanying Elizabeth
and the two Millars, during a stroll in the country. Annie of course was her
companion, and she found it a very charming change from the incessant trouble of
looking after a young child. They talked much of Elizabeth's future prospects,
and of Annie's likewise—she was delighted at the idea of the marriage, and
anticipated with pleasure the society of a sister. She told Emma she had hardly
known George's first wife, as she had been at school until after her death, and
often spent her holidays with her own mother's relations; but since there would
now be a chaperone for her on all occasions, her home would be much pleasanter.
At the same time, she confided to Emma her secret wonder that any woman should
marry at all. Excepting her own brother, she did not believe there existed a
single man in the world good enough to serve as a reasonable excuse for a woman
becoming his slave. Emma remonstrated and protested at this idea, but Annie
laughed and persisted: she asserted that nearly all men were dreadful and
selfish, and that as it was impossible to be thoroughly acquainted with their
dispositions until after marriage, and it was then too late to change, it was
much better not to take the fatal step, but to continue mistress of oneself and
one's fortune. She never meant to marry—that was her firm determination. Emma
suggested that she might fall in love—but Annie protested again that the fall,
which she considered a serious _fall_ indeed, was only the effect of a pre-
disposition to commit matrimony, and that where the mind was firmly made up, as
hers was, on the subject, there could not be the slightest danger of such an
accident. Emma smiled and said time would show, whilst Annie drew an animated
picture of the miseries of matrimony, dwelling on all the little trifles which
she could imagine or recollect, to convince her companion of the wretchedness of
the state. In spite of the nonsense she talked, Emma liked her very much, and
was quite sorry when their walk came to a termination. Several days passed
quietly, and there was, during that time, no solitary walk for Emma; one of her
sisters was her constant companion, and sometimes Janetta accompanied her
mother, sometimes went out with the maid. Neither did Mr. Morgan plague her any
more, they passed two or three times on the road, but a friendly bow was all the
intercourse they had together; and when he called on Mrs. Watson, which Emma
rather thought occurred pretty often, she never saw him. Her first interview was
on the occasion of his coming to take a quiet dinner, and the cause of his being
asked to do so was so grand an event, as to throw his presence quite into the
shade. It was nothing less than the first visit of Tom Musgrove to his
betrothed. He had written to say he was coming down to Croydon, and the
announcement threw Margaret into such a state of trepidation and nervous
excitement, as to make Mr. Morgan and a composing draught absolutely necessary
for her. She was very near fainting when she received the letter, and indeed was
only prevented by not knowing how to manage it. Her next idea was to go out, and
see how many of her acquaintance she could meet with, either in the street or
their own houses, to whom she might impart the interesting intelligence. She had
intense gratification in assuring them of the nervous tremors, the palpitations,
the painful excitement, the strain on the mental energies, the soft sensibility,
the affecting circumstances, and all other sentiments and weaknesses, with which
she was pleased to charge herself. She viewed with much satisfaction, the envy
and mortification with which her joyous prospects were viewed by her sweet young
friends; and the more cool and indifferent they appeared, the more she enjoyed
expatiating on her own delightful situation. Some she kindly congratulated,
because they had now experienced her agitating feelings, some she fondly
caressed, because she could see they would feel the same in a similar situation,
and some she triumphantly hoped might ever be blessed with prospects as bright
as her own. In all this excitement, Emma and her walks were nearly forgotten,
and she was suddenly asked, as a special favour, to take Janetta out for half an
hour. She could not refuse, and had the satisfaction of going and returning
without seeing any thing of Mr. Morgan, or encountering any acquaintance
whomsoever. This gave her courage, and she began to think her fears and scruples
were as imaginary as Jane had assumed them to be. END OF VOL. II.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE YOUNGER SISTER, VOL III. CHAPTER I. The afternoon passed away, and Margaret,
who had been incessantly walking from one window to another, to watch for her
lover's curricle, now began to create a new sensation for herself, by a
conviction which suddenly seized on her, that some dreadful accident had
happened to him. It was towards the end of March, and the lengthened days
allowed them plenty of time to dine by daylight, and enjoy a long twilight
afterwards; as the evening began to close in, her alarm and tribulation
increased; when, at length, her fears were dissipated by seeing the curricle
drive up to the door with a most important bustle, followed by a loud and
prolonged knock, which instantly brought twenty heads to the neighbouring
windows. Margaret sank on a sofa, and exclaimed in feeble tones,

"He is there—my heart tells me he is there—support me, my dear sisters—support
me in this trying hour." Before any one had time to answer her, his step was
heard on the stairs, and recovering as rapidly as she had appeared to lose her
strength, she flew to the door and was ready to have thrown herself into his
arms on the smallest encouragement. He did not, however, seem to desire her
embraces, but coolly held out his hand, and enquired how she was—then, without
waiting for an answer, turned and paid a similar compliment to the other ladies.
She looked a little disappointed at the want of tenderness her lover displayed,
but consoled herself by smoothing down the nap of his hat, which she took from
his hand, and stretching out the fingers of his driving gloves—of which she also
assumed the care. At this moment, Robert Watson and Mr. Morgan, who had been
sitting over their wine in the dining-parlour, appeared up-stairs, and Robert
immediately suggested to Mr. Musgrove that he must want some dinner, to which
the latter readily acceded. Jane and Margaret who appeared to be almost equally
interested in the new-comer, both left the room to see after the necessary
preparations, and whilst they were gone George Millar came in and persuaded
Elizabeth to go home with him, to take tea with his sister and mother-in-law.
Robert and his new guest adjourned to the dining-room where the two ladies
joined them, and Emma was left to a _tête-à-tête_ with Mr. Morgan. He had seated
himself in a corner, and was looking over the newspaper during all the bustle
attending the arrival of Tom Musgrove, and the successive entrances and exits of
the several members of the party. But when they were all gone, and Emma was
quietly sitting down to work, he threw away the paper and walking across the
room drew a chair close to hers and seemed inclined to enter into conversation.
"How happy your sister must be," was his first speech, whilst he fixed his
uncommonly penetrating eyes on her face. "Which sister?" replied Emma, without
looking up from her embroidery. "Both must be happy," replied he; "but at this
moment I imagine your sister Margaret's feelings must be the most agreeable;
meeting after a prolonged absence must be so delightful. Don't you envy her?" "I
hope not," said Emma, for she was not quite satisfied with his tone and manner;
there was something of sarcasm in it which she did not like. "I did not mean
envy in the bad sense," he remarked, as if comprehending her thoughts from her
tone; "of that I know you to be incapable; but can you not fancy how pleasant
her emotions must be when again enjoying the society of an attached and faithful
lover like the gentleman in question?" "Perhaps I can—but I must be in her
situation thoroughly to enter into her feelings," said Emma rather wishing to
drop the subject. "And hitherto you have not been placed in this interesting
situation?" There was something in the tone in which Mr. Morgan made this
comment, with his eyes fixed on her countenance, that gave it rather the
character of a question than a reply. She felt offended at his manner and tone,
and proudly raised her head with a look which seemed to ask what right he had to
enquire on that subject. He understood her meaning, but did not seem inclined to
take any notice of it, proceeding in the same way to observe,

"They whose hearts are untouched cannot of course understand all the pleasing
emotions which the sight of a beloved object raises after a prolonged
absence—nor indeed does it require a _prolonged absence_ to give occasion to the
emotions I speak of. A month, a fortnight, even a week passed without the
intercourse which becomes dear and therefore necessary, is sufficient to raise a
variety of pleasing but most overpowering feelings in an affectionate heart."
"Very likely," replied Emma coolly, and then she added immediately an enquiry as
to whether he thought the next change of the moon would bring them more settled
weather. He answered that he could not tell, and then added,

"Do you not think your future brother, Mr. Musgrove, is a very charming young
man?" "I have often heard him called so," said Emma; "but you know it is not my
business to be charmed with him," smiling a little as she spoke. "You are most
discreet," said he, delighted that she appeared inclined to relax a little from
her former gravity; "but to tell you the truth I should _not_ have expected,
from what I know, that you _would_ be charmed with him." "From what you know of
_him_ or of _me_?" inquired Emma. "Of you both, but especially of _you_: it is
not for nothing that I have been studying your character, and I am convinced
that a man who would attract _you_, Miss Emma, must possess more good qualities
than Mr. Musgrove can boast of." "Perhaps I might be a little difficult to
please," replied Emma; "but do you think there is any harm in that?" "Harm, no!"
replied he with enthusiasm; "minds of a common order cannot discriminate between
what is good or evil in its tendency; they see only what is evil to their own
capacities, and are entirely unaware of the vast difference between the
intellects of one man and another. Whilst those who by their own intellectual
powers are raised above the common level, take in, at one keen and rapid view,
the different mental altitudes of their companions, and appreciating alone the
grand and elevated turn from more ordinary minds with indifference, contempt or
disgust." "I hope," said Emma rather doubtingly, "that your description is not
intended to apply to me: that is, if I understand you rightly. I should be very
sorry to think I am guilty of setting up my understanding as a measure for that
of others, or of despising any of my companions as thinking them less clever
than myself." "Indeed I did not mean to accuse you of voluntarily giving way to
such feelings—the sensation I meant to depict is as involuntary as your
perception of light or colour. A person endowed with a superior understanding
could no more help deciding on the different mental capacities of her companions
than she could on the beauty or fitness of the patterns of their gowns." "But
the superiority of mental capacities, or our own estimation of them ought not to
be the standard by which we should judge of the merits of our fellow-creatures,
Mr. Morgan. Surely their moral superiority is a far more important point, and it
would be much better to live with a good but ignorant man, than with a wicked
one however clever and well-informed." Mr. Morgan rather curled his lip. "I
doubt whether you will find your maxim work well in every day life, however well
it may sound in theory. The practice of mankind is against it universally, and
where that is the case it is because the sense of the world leads them to the
conclusion which you reject. Look around, and see who has most success in life,
the clever, unscrupulous, and if you will the unprincipled man, or the sober,
plodding, moral one, without wit or wisdom to prevent his sinking lower than the
condition in which he was born." Emma had not the vanity to suppose that she
could be a match for Mr. Morgan in dispute, she was, therefore, contented to let
the subject drop. Finding she did not reply, he moved his chair a little closer
than before, and said, in a tone of the softest sympathy,

"Are you quite well this evening? dusk as it is, I am struck with your looks,
and was so at dinner." She thanked him, and replied she was pretty well. He did
not seem satisfied. "Are you sure you have no head-ache? there is a languor in
your movements, and a heaviness about your eyes, which plainly shows that all is
not quite right with you. Confess the truth—does not your head ache?" She owned
it did a little. "I thought I knew your countenance too well to be misled," said
he, complacently—then taking her hand, without the smallest ceremony, in both of
his, he felt her pulse, and told her she was nervous and feverish. She smiled,
and said she was only a little tired, and that he must not persuade her she was
ill; she had not time for that. "I am certain," replied he, still detaining her
hand, which she had made a slight attempt to withdraw, "I am certain, from the
tremulous motion of your little fairy-like fingers that you are suffering from
over-excitement of mind. You have so much to worry and distress you, so many
small privations and never ceasing annoyances, that your nervous temperament is
wrought up to too high a pitch. This little hand is looking too white and
delicate for health. You must indeed, for your own sake, and for the sake of
those that love you, take care of yourself, and do not tax your constitution too
far." "I do not mind what you say, Mr. Morgan," replied Emma, playfully, again
attempting to withdraw her hand from a clasp which she felt rather too tender
for a doctor. "I know you only speak professionally, and it is your business to
persuade those who listen to you that they are ill, that you may have the
satisfaction of making them believe you cure them afterwards." "Fie, fie,"
replied he, tapping her on the arm, "I did not expect such malice from you, fair
Emma!" She decidedly drew her hand from his, and moved her chair away towards
the window, saying, as she did so, in a graver tone,

"Remember _I_ have not placed myself under your power, Mr. Morgan, and you have
no business to attempt to mislead me." The rapidly decreasing light prevented
his reading the expression of her countenance; but he felt from her tone and
action that _she_ would not endure the small personal liberties in which some of
his patients permitted him. There was a pause, which she broke, by saying,

"My sisters are a long time away, I must go to see for them." "No, pray stay
another moment," cried he, rising too, as she rose. "Allow me one moment more,
one other word." She stopped; and he was silent for a minute, till she said,

"Well, Mr. Morgan, what am I to stop for?" "Tell me," said he, "why you freeze
me with that look and manner—did I offend you with my remarks? is my
friendship—the warm interest I feel for you—is it unpleasant—or in what way have
I sinned to deserve this sudden check." She was excessively embarrassed, and
mentally determined not to remain in the dusk _tête-à-tête_ with a man again, at
least, not with Mr. Morgan: but this resolution, however good for the future,
did not help her at the present moment; when she was thus standing before him,
and under the unpleasant necessity of either admitting that she was capricious,
or allowing that she attached more importance than, perhaps, it deserved to a
trifling action on his part. Seeing that she hesitated, he continued—

"I will not press for an answer if it vexes you; and you must own mentally, if
not openly, that you judged me harshly. I forgive you, convinced when you know
me better, you will not do so again." He took her hand again, and was just in
the act of putting his lips to it, when the door opened suddenly, and several
young ladies—whom in the dusk she could hardly distinguish—burst into the room.
"Is that you Margaret?" said one advancing, "that we have caught making love in
the dark—no, upon my honour it's Emma Watson and my brother! ha, ha; so you are
found out, James?" "Oh, it's not the first time that Miss Emma Watson has
indulged your brother in a _tête-à-tête_" cried a voice, which Emma recognised
as belonging to Miss Jenkins, a particular friend of Margaret's, towards whom
she felt a strong repugnance. "They have been found _out_ before now—they are
very fond of taking long walks together, aren't you, Mr. Morgan—and carrying
Janetta, too." It was too dark for the expression of any one's countenance to be
seen, so that the angry look with which Mr. Morgan received this attack, and the
confusion and distress which Emma betrayed, were alike invisible; but could he
have annihilated the young ladies who thus intruded, including his sister, he
would certainly have done it with pleasure. Any answer, on his part, was
prevented by the entrance of the party from the dining-room with lights, when a
general scene of confusion and chattering followed, which concluded by a general
invitation to the young visitors to stay for tea, and have a little fun, to
which they readily assented. Tom Musgrove having eaten and drank soon made
himself very agreeable to the whole party, and after the tea and bread and
butter were removed, he proposed a game at blind man's buff, or hunt the
slipper, to finish the evening. The former was adopted, and a very noisy party
it proved. Tom, of course, was the first to be blinded, and, unless he contrived
to see out from under the handkerchief, the dexterity with which he avoided
catching Margaret, though she perpetually threw herself in his way, was quite
wonderful. His first victim was the younger Miss Morgan, a pretty, giggling
girl, who laughed so excessively, and twisted about so much, that he had great
difficulty in holding her at all, and it was only by clasping his arm very
tightly round her waist, that he succeeded in keeping her prisoner. However, he
named her rightly, and the handkerchief was secured on her; her brother was the
next—apparently he threw himself in her way, whether because he disliked her
going through the process of catching and naming Mr. Musgrove was not quite
certain. Perhaps he wished himself to succeed her; he certainly was very
successful in catching prisoners, but made extraordinary blunders in recognising
them; never once hitting on the proper name, and, consequently, having no right
to make over the bandage to another. At length, after several attempts, he
succeeded in catching Emma herself. She had not been able to avoid joining in
the game, though it was not much to her taste; but she took great pains to move
about as quietly and keep as much out of the way as possible. His ear, however,
was quick at detecting her light footstep, and, unknown to her, he had traced
her into a corner, where she was quietly resting, when he succeeded in laying
hold of her. As she neither struggled nor laughed, he knew instantly who it was,
and whilst he held her hand in his, and made believe, as usual, to feel her
features, and ascertain her identity, he whispered, under cover of the noise
which some of the other girls were making,

"Do you wish to be blinded, Emma Watson?" "Certainly not," replied she in the
same tone, and he immediately guessed her to be some one else, and with a gentle
pressure of her hand he let her go. Emma was very well pleased to escape, but
she felt a half scruple at the manner in which it was done, from the sort of
private understanding which Mr. Morgan assumed to exist between them. On turning
away too, she caught the malevolent eyes of Miss Jenkins fixed on her, and she
could not encounter their look without a feeling of embarrassment. Mr. Morgan
soon afterwards caught and rightly named Mrs. Watson herself, who in her turn
chased with great vigour but little success her different visitors. The whole
affair ended in a complete romp—the table was upset, chairs thrown over, and
Emma's gown narrowly escaped from a lighted candle, which the dexterity of Mr.
Morgan alone succeeded in averting. It was now judged that they had enjoyed fun
enough for one evening, and Emma, wondering much at the taste which could select
such an amusement, retired to recover from the fatigue it occasioned. She had
never seen anything of the kind before, for the associates of her uncle and aunt
were very quiet people, and she had been quite ignorant of the extent to which
liveliness might be carried when unchecked by the restraints of good breeding.
It was a very unexpected pleasure to her, to receive the next morning a letter
from Miss Osborne, containing an announcement that the day for her wedding was
fixed and that it was to be celebrated in about three weeks. She hoped Emma
would be able to keep her promise and spend some time with them whilst at
Osborne Castle, but she did not assign any particular time as the date of their
visit. Margaret likewise had her share of excitement and pleasure. It appeared
that Tom Musgrove had come down with serious intentions of persuading her to
marry on the same day as Sir William Gordon and Miss Osborne had fixed on. To be
distinguished, and to appear connected with the great, was so completely the
object of his life, that he did not like even to fix a day for his own wedding
entirely with regard to his own convenience, and now he was determined to make
it as important as the reflected grandeur of Miss Osborne and her noble family
could do. The credit of this idea, however, was not entirely due to him; it was
suggested originally by Sir William himself. Miss Osborne, who could not feel
quite happy or at her ease with regard to his steadiness of purpose, until the
ceremony had actually passed, which would make it certain that her testimony
would never be required, induced Sir William Gordon to question him as to when
he intended to marry, and though he found Tom's ideas rather vague and unsettled
on the subject, he had not much difficulty in persuading him of the advantage of
fixing on the same day as their own. The notion delighted Mr. Musgrove, and he
immediately determined to run down to Croydon and make the proposal at once.
"Well, Margaret," said he, the morning after his arrival, "since it seems we
must be married sooner or later, do you see any good in delay?" Margaret
simpered and blushed, and did not know very well which way to look or what to
say. "I say," continued he, "there is no use in wasting time, when the thing
must be done—unless, indeed, you have changed your mind." "Oh dear no, Tom,"
cried Margaret, "mine is a mind not lightly to be changed—you know that much, I
am sure, of me." "Miss Osborne is to married this day three weeks," observed
Tom, "to my friend Sir William Gordon, and he was proposing to me that we should
celebrate ours on the same day. I should rather like it, I own, as they are such
particular friends of mine, and we are going to the same county. They come down
to Osborne Castle for their honey-moon, and we _might_; indeed of course we
_should_ be asked up there on our wedding." "Oh delightful, Tom," cried
Margaret, perfectly enchanted at the prospect, and in the rapture of the view,
quite overlooking the coolness of her lover's manner, and the total absence of
even any pretence of affection. "I should like that of all things, only perhaps
I might have some difficulty in getting my wedding things ready in time; to be
sure, as I must wear mourning I should not want much just at first, but a gown
and hat—what should my gown be, dear Tom?" "Hang your gown! what do I know about
your gown? or what has that got to do with it; but women always make such a
confounded fuss about their gowns and their petticoats. I say, will you marry me
this day three weeks?—because, if you will not, you may just let it alone, for
any thing I care." "You are always so funny, Tom," said Margaret trying to
laugh; "I never know what you will say next. But you do hurry and flurry one so,
asking in that sort of off-hand way—upon my word I do not know what to
answer—what can I say to him, Jane—is he not odd?" "For heaven's sake, Mrs.
Watson, do try and persuade Margaret to act with a little common sense, if she
has such a commodity in her brain," cried Tom, impatiently. "Really," simpered
Mrs. Watson, "you are the most unlover-like lover that ever I saw—if I were you,
Margaret, I would tease him unceasingly for these speeches. I would say him nay,
and nay, and nay again, before I would give him his own way." "Oh! I am not so
very cruel," said Margaret, "he knows my disposition, and how much he may
venture on with me." "Well, when you have made up your mind, let me know," said
he, settling himself in an easy chair, and pretending to drop asleep. "Upon my
word, Margaret," said Mrs. Watson, "he gives himself precious airs—would I
submit to such a thing from any man in the world—no, indeed—I would see the
whole sex annihilated first, that I would." "Do not be so dreadfully severe,
Mrs. Watson," said Tom, without unclosing his eyes, "Allow me to enjoy my last
few days of liberty; when I have taken to myself a wife, where will my domestic
freedom be?" "Impudent fellow," said Mrs. Watson, going up and pretending to pat
his cheek; he caught her hand and told her in return, she was his prisoner now,
and must pay the penalty of the box on the ear, which she had so deliberately
bestowed on him. She giggled exceedingly, and he was insisting on his right,
when Robert entered the room and said, in a cool off-hand way:

"I suppose, Margaret, Musgrove has told you he wants to marry this day three
weeks, and as I presume, you have no objection, I have resolved to get the
settlements in hand immediately. I suppose you have not much to do in the way of
preparation, have you?" "Well, I suppose, as you all come upon me so suddenly,
there is nothing for me to do but to submit," said Margaret, "and really, I see
no harm in it. Of course you will have the marriage put in the newspapers; it
must be sent to 'The Morning Post,' Tom." "I have no objection," observed the
ardent lover. "Well then, Jane, I suppose I had better be seeing about my gown
and wedding clothes—will you come with me and help me choose some dresses, Tom?"
"Not I, by Jove! what do I know about dresses, I tell you!—it's all woman's
nonsense, and I will have nothing to do with it. I believe if a woman were
dying, her only care would be to secure a handsome shawl—and the idea of a plain
funeral would break her heart." "Don't be so dreadfully severe, Tom," interposed
Mrs. Watson again, "you are a naughty, spiteful, ill-tempered satirist, and we
must teach you better manners before we have done with you." "Beyond a question
you will soon do that," returned he, "I already feel wonderfully humbled and
penitent, from sitting with you for the last hour; and what I shall arrive at,
after being your brother for a twelvemonth, can only be guessed at now."
Margaret and Jane soon afterwards set off on the important business of looking
for wedding dresses, and purchasing more clothes than she would know what to do
with, whilst obliged to wear her deep mourning—a circumstance which was
particularly distressing to Margaret—who, whilst anxious to make a very splendid
figure in her new establishment, was perpetually checked in her aspirations by
the remembrance that she must, for many months, continue to wear black. It was,
however, a great delight to her to think that she should be married almost as
soon as Penelope, and before Elizabeth; but, since her own good luck was now
certain, she felt no particular envy of either of her elder sisters; for, though
she could not help seeing that Elizabeth's establishment, house and carriage,
would be more expensive and grand than her own, she did not think that she would
have given up the independence and idleness of Tom's situation as a gentleman,
for the large income and luxuries accompanying the brewer's occupation. Emma
looked on and wondered at Margaret's state of contentment under the indifference
and contemptuous treatment which her lover bestowed on her. _She_ would not have
borne it for a single hour; but Margaret seemed to feel nothing of it—and her
own foolish and caressingly fond ways, were enough to disgust a sensible man
altogether. He did not mean to remain more than a couple of days; and, during
that time, Mrs. Watson took care to occupy each evening with a party of young
people; a most judicious arrangement, which saved an immense deal of unwilling
labour and unnecessary love-making. The Morgans, the Millars, and many others,
joined them—and they had country dances and reels enough to tire many
indefatigable dancers. Emma continued to refuse to dance; and, as the ladies
out-numbered the gentlemen, she was less tempted to break her resolution. In
consequence of this, she was, on the second evening, for a good while left quite
alone, until Mr. Morgan, declaring himself quite knocked up, took refuge in the
corner where she was sitting and engaged her in an agreeable conversation. They
were not discussing any thing very remarkable, but Emma was amused and lively,
when she heard Miss Jenkins say, in reply to something:

"Oh! no doubt, Emma Watson finds it quite agreeable to sit out—no great
sacrifice there, I fancy! She takes every opportunity of throwing herself in
somebody's way!" It was said so loud that there could be no doubt but that it
was intended for them to hear, and from the quick glance round, and the
elevation of eyebrows which followed it on his part, it was evident it had not
failed of its object. Emma wished she could have stopped the blood which rushed
to her face and coloured her cheeks so deeply; but she could neither conceal her
feelings nor command her voice sufficiently to finish her sentence, for she felt
that Mr. Morgan's eyes were fixed on her with a keen, scrutinizing glance, which
seemed to read her thoughts in a moment. When Miss Jenkins was out of hearing,
he observed very quietly,

"I think, Miss Emma, you have not been brought up in a country town?" "No,
indeed," said Emma. "You seem peculiarly unfitted to continue in one, with any
comfort or peace of mind," continued he. "Indeed—I doubt whether I am to take
that as a compliment or the reverse," replied Emma smiling a little. "I never
pay compliments," said he, "but if you want to know why I think so, learn that I
can see you mind being talked about, dislike gossip and scandal, and have no
taste for romping or noise: therefore you are unfitted for a resident in a
country town!" "You are _not_ complimentary to-night, Mr. Morgan; what has put
you out of humour with your fellow towns-women?" "I assure you I feel most
amiably disposed towards them all, especially those who by dancing to-night have
left me at liberty to converse with you. They are all charming chatterers, and
delightful dancers, and equally exquisite, enlightened, eloquent and endearing."
"Your compliments are rather equivocal, Mr. Morgan, I do not know that I should
like such problematic praises." "_You_—you need not be afraid, I should never
think of applying such terms to you—did I not begin with observing that you were
not brought up in a country town." "There are some people I have observed," said
Emma thoughtfully, "who always hold the society in which they happen to move
very cheap, because they have an unfortunate power of vision which enables them
alone to see the weak, the ridiculous, the faulty side of things." "Thank you—do
not find fault with my compliments after that speech—I never made one more
severe." "I beg your pardon," replied she colouring deeply. "Perhaps it did
sound a little harsh." "Yes, I am deeply indebted to you for your good
opinion—you probably suppose me incapable of appreciating the beautiful and
excellent when I meet it, because I am alive to the follies, the littleness, and
the absurdities of those amongst whom I am forced to mix—some day I trust you
will judge me better." He understood Emma's character completely—the idea that
she had been harsh in her speech, and that he felt hurt by her injustice, was
decidedly the most likely thing to produce kindness and conciliatory manners to
make it up. He assumed an air and tone of injured innocence which quite touched
her, for straightforward and artless herself, she never suspected he was only
acting. She wanted him to speak again, but he was determined to leave it to her
to make that effort, and he partly drew back and turned his chair slightly away,
as if he had not courage again to address her. She renewed the conversation by
enquiring whether he had long been resident in the town—the soft tone of her
voice immediately drew him back to his former position, and he began to tell her
that he had come to Croydon about fifteen years before, that like herself he had
lived in his youth in the country, and the only towns he had previously been
acquainted with were Oxford and London. "Like yourself too," continued he, "I
came here frank and open-hearted—ready to place the best construction on
anything I saw or heard, and believing that the neighbourhood would do as much
for me. Experience has taught me a very different lesson; but perhaps nothing
but experience will do. With the consciousness of the amount it cost me to buy
my knowledge with suffering, I sometimes idly think of saving others by my
cautions from a similar expense of feeling, but it is vain—and I do not think I
shall make the attempt again." "And so," said Emma, after a short pause, "you
think me ungrateful and self-willed, because I do not like to hear whole-sale
depreciation of your fellow-townspeople." "I certainly will be wiser another
time, and keep my opinion to myself," replied he still in a proud and injured
tone. "Well, I do not like to seem ungracious, and if you really wanted to give
me advice—your superior age and experience certainly entitle you to form an
opinion, and to be listened to with deference. So if you speak for my good, I
will attend—but do not be too bitter, or I shall rebel again." "I only wished to
caution you against the spirit of prying curiosity and foolish censoriousness,
which seems indigenous amongst the inhabitants of a small town." "And you
thought me likely to fall into a similar error, did you?" enquired she simply.
"You, my dear girl, no indeed; but I thought you likely to be the victim to this
spirit, unless you took care and were cautioned against it." "If I do nothing
wrong," said Emma, "nothing blameworthy, how can there be any danger that I
shall incur censure? I hope I shall not provoke enmity in any way." "That will
be a vain and illusive hope," replied he earnestly; "there is too much about you
to provoke ill-will, for your conduct to be regarded with a friendly eye. Youth
and beauty have innumerable enemies in a place like this; your superior
education, your acquaintance, I may say intimacy, with those very much above
your present associates in rank, your frank and confiding disposition, all
expose you to enmity and envy of the most malignant kind." "You will make me
quite unhappy, Mr. Morgan, if you talk in that way. I cannot believe that those
I see around me are so very wicked; and why should any one try to injure a
portionless orphan like myself." "Because they are not all possessed of the
generous feelings and high principles which form such a charm in that helpless
and portionless orphan—and which, when joined to her personal beauty, endow her
more richly than the wealthiest of all our townsmen's daughters." "I cannot help
hoping that your warnings are not more sincere than your compliments, and then I
shall have the less to fear, Mr. Morgan," replied Emma, smiling. "I wish you
would give me credit for sincerity, Miss Watson; it is disheartening to find
myself constantly doubted. I shall give you up in despair. Look beautiful and
merry—prove yourself lively and amusing—wear becoming bonnets—pretty gowns—and
well-made shoes, and you will soon not have a female friend in the town." "This
_must_ be your prejudice—or you are quizzing me. I cannot believe that bonnets
and shoes have anything to do with female friends." "You will persist in judging
every one by yourself, and you cannot set up a more erroneous standard. Do you
suppose that _your_ wardrobe will be less commented on than your neighbours.
Does Miss Tomson make any one a new bonnet without its being known and abused by
all the owner's most intimate friends." "But you must be wrong," said Emma; "it
is impossible that all can be watched over in that way; we do not know a great
many people who live here; even my sister does not; and why should I suppose
that I am so conspicuous a personage?" "The inhabitants of the town," said Mr.
Morgan, "are divided into many different sets, it is true; they move in
different circles, and there is no mixture; but the individuals of each class
have their eyes constantly fixed on those above as well as those equal with
themselves; the former, that they may imitate their actions; the latter, that
they may detect the first symptom of mounting to a higher circle. They have
likewise to detect and repress the first encroachment from the ranks beneath
them, so that you see each individual has her attention fully occupied in this
perpetual watching." "You must be exaggerating, Mr. Morgan; I trust you are, at
least." "Do you want a proof of the jealousy and exclusive spirit which reigns
amongst them? look into the church. There, where men and women ought, if ever,
to meet as equals, what do you see?—the aristocratic classes—those who have
their carriages and horses to bring them to their Sunday devotions, who have
their comfortable and elegant dwellings out of the town, have likewise their
comfortable pews for lounging through their prayers—their cushions, their
carpets, their footstools, that they may not be too much fatigued by
worship—their curtains, too, lest the vulgar gaze should distress their modesty,
or intrude on their privacy. Then come the townspeople—the higher classes, those
in professions, or, perhaps, in business, on a large scale, like George Millar,
or the Greenes. These have their cushions and carpets, but are forced to forego
the privacy of curtains, for which they make up by the superior brilliancy of
their pew linings, and the elegance of the fringe drapery, which hangs down in
front of the galleries. Inferior classes are forced to sit on benches without
cushions, whilst the poorest of all may enjoy what comfort they can on the hard
open seats in the stone aisle." Emma looked thoughtful, but did not answer. "You
must admit the truth of my description," continued he; "there is sufficient
stuff expended on the galleries of that church to have clothed half the children
in the parish school." "I am sorry that you should have the power of saying such
things, Mr. Morgan, or that I cannot contradict them. Have you ever made an
effort to procure a reform?" "Reform, no—do you suppose I should even hint at
such plain truths to a native of the town? do you imagine I impart my opinions
on the subject indiscriminately? no, indeed—my popularity, such as it is, would
be soon blown away were I to venture to contradict all their dearest prejudices.
It is a far better plan to tell Miss Jenkins that she looks like an angel in the
sky, when sitting in her blue pew, or to hint to old Mrs. Adams, that the
crimson moreen gives quite a juvenile glow to her complexion." "In short," said
Emma, gravely, "to encourage people's weaknesses in order to gain their good
will." "Precisely so—it is the only way to live at peace with all the world; at
least, the world of Croydon; why should I risk their repose and mine, by
voluntarily encountering them on their hobbies. Follow my advice, my dear Miss
Watson, and make the best of those you meet with here." They were interrupted by
the conclusion of the dance; and Mr. Morgan thought it best to move away. He
left Emma thoughtful and dispirited; and as he watched her from a distance, he
was quite satisfied with the general expression of her countenance. Her next
neighbour was Mr. Alfred Freemantle, who threw himself into the chair Mr. Morgan
had vacated, and began a series of enquiries as to who Mr. Tom Musgrove might
be, and whether it was really true that her sister Margaret was on the point of
marriage with him? Emma soon grew tired of his "bald, disjointed chat," and
moved away; she was met by Mrs. Turner. "My dear child," cried she, catching
hold of both her arms, "I have been wanting to speak to you this age, but I
would not interrupt you whilst you were talking to that pleasant man, Mr
Morgan—yes, what a nice man he is, ain't he, dear? Now I did not mean to make
you blush; but take care, don't flirt with him too much, because it may mean
nothing, you know, there's no saying. But I wanted to tell you how excessively I
am delighted with your sister, and how glad I am that she is to marry George.
Poor girl, I dare say she is glad of it too; young women like to be married; but
then I don't know where you could find a nicer young woman than Elizabeth—or one
that would suit my son better. Now, I don't mean that as any reflection upon
you, my dear, on the contrary, so never mind what I say." "I assure you, madam,
what you say of my sister gives me sincere pleasure, and I could not, I hope, be
so unreasonable as to expect you to regard us in the same light. It is a great
happiness when the friends on each side are equally satisfied with any projected
marriage." "Very true, my dear, I agree with what you say; yes, Elizabeth is a
charming girl, and much better suited to my son-in-law than you would be
perhaps—so we ought to be satisfied on all sides, as you say." "I am certain she
will make a most excellent wife," replied Emma warmly. "And who do you mean to
marry, my dear? Suppose you were to tell me now, I would promise not to tell any
one." "I have not made up my mind yet," said Emma laughing a little; "but I will
let you know as soon as I can." "Don't try for Mr. Morgan, my dear, he will only
disappoint you—do not trust him too far; you had better not." "Mr. Morgan, my
dear madam," repeated Emma almost laughing outright, "why he is quite an old
man! old enough to be my father I am sure. No, no, I will lay no snares for Mr.
Morgan; I am sure if I did the ladies of Croydon would never forgive me." "I
dare say not—but indeed I do not think he deserves you, my dear; I know things
of him which I will not tell you; but don't let him make you in love with him."
Emma only smiled at this warning, and the breaking up of the party at the moment
prevented her hearing more on the subject from Mrs. Turner. Tom Musgrove did not
stay longer than he had originally proposed, but the next time he came
everything was to be ready for the wedding, and Margaret was in such high
spirits at the prospect, as plainly showed that she had quite forgotten the
unpleasant difficulties which had previously interfered with this happy
consummation. CHAPTER II. Emma had often wondered that she had heard no more
from Lady Fanny Allston. She knew she had been ill, but did not apprehend that
her illness was of so serious a nature as necessarily to cause this long delay.
But she was at length surprised one day by receiving from her ladyship's
housekeeper an abrupt and rather uncivil note, completely breaking off the
negotiation. There was something in the tone of the announcement which hurt her
exceedingly, and she was in a very uncomfortable frame of mind when she walked
out that afternoon with Janetta, for she had lately resumed this custom. She
took her little charge into some meadows to look for primroses and violets on
the sunny banks, and whilst the child was busy plucking all she could find, Emma
herself sat down on the stump of a tree to try and discover the meaning of this
communication. She had nothing, however, to guide her conjectures; there was no
clue in the note, and she was forced to remain satisfied with the conclusion
that her ladyship was capricious and had changed her mind. Whilst occupied in
considering this subject, she was startled by footsteps, and she looked up with
a sort of fearful expectation that she should see Mr. Morgan; it was not however
the doctor who presented himself, but Mr. Bridge, the clergyman, whom she had
formerly met at the Millars'. He took off his hat with a very respectful bow,
and addressed her with an air of politeness and courtesy which pleased her
exceedingly. After a slight remark on the bright day and the beauty of the
scenery, he passed on a few steps, and Emma supposed he was going to leave her;
suddenly however he seemed to change his mind, and surprised her by returning to
her side. He enquired if she was intending to sit there long, as he feared it
must be damp and unsafe. "I do not perceive any damp, sir," replied she; "and it
is so pleasant I am unwilling to think it can be dangerous." "That is not a
rule," he replied smiling a little, and then gravely shaking his head; "many
things extremely agreeable are invisibly surrounded with risks and dangers. It
is a common-place remark I acknowledge, but one which is as constantly
forgotten, as it is frequently enforced. Young people like yourself are
particularly apt to slight it—but if you would bear with an old man—"

He paused and regarded her with a look of interest, which she noticed, and
finding he hesitated, she ventured to say with warmth and earnestness,

"Pray go on, sir; if you think me in need of caution, I will listen with the
attention and reverence which is every way your due." "I have been interested
for you, my dear young lady, not only by your own sweet and ingenuous
countenance, your misfortunes and your unprotected situation, but by the
representations of my young friend Annie Millar, and I feel that whilst you
reside under my pastoral care, I should not be doing my duty were I not to exert
myself to save you from inconveniences which you may perhaps be very innocently
entailing on yourself." Emma coloured and felt quite astonished at this address,
the purport of which she could not guess, but after a moment's hesitation, she
begged Mr. Bridge to proceed without ceremony; if he had any censure to bestow
on her, she would listen and feel obliged. "It is not censure, it is only a
caution I wish to give you—I mean with regard to your intimacy with Mr. Morgan:
you probably do not know his character, nor is it necessary that you should
learn minute particulars; I am sure it will be enough for you to hear that he is
not a safe companion for a young woman of your age and appearance." "I think you
must be under some misapprehension," replied Emma surprised; "there is nothing
between us which can warrant the appellation of intimacy. He visits my sister-
in-law, and as her visitor only I have known him." "I had hoped," replied Mr.
Bridge gravely, "to have met with more candour from you; I am under a very great
mistake, if you have not on several occasions met him when walking only with
that little girl, and allowed him to walk with you for a long time. Is it not
so?" "That is perfectly true—but the meetings were quite accidental," said Emma.
"So far as you were concerned, I can believe it; but the world will only know
that you were seen walking _tête-à-tête_ with a man of known bad principles and
immoral conduct; and more than that, he has been found with you in the drawing-
room alone, and you have passed many hours in his company when visiting in other
houses." "I was not aware," said Emma, perfectly astonished at the charge; "that
my actions could have thus been the subject of comment and inspection; but what
you say, though perfectly true in itself, is capable of a very different
interpretation—will you listen to my defence?" "Certainly, my dear child,"
replied he, pleased at the frank and respectful manner with which she addressed
him. "I met Mr. Morgan at Mr. Millar's, and there I saw him received into the
society of respectable women—he visited at my sister-in-law's house, and was,
evidently, in her confidence; he proposed to her to procure me a situation as
governess to Lady Fanny Allston's little girl, and my brother perfectly approved
of the negotiation. It was the interest he took in this plan, which produced the
appearance of intimacy which you reprobate; it was to discuss this subject, that
he joined me in my walks; but, as I did not like the appearance of clandestine
intercourse, I mentioned the occurrence to my brother and sister-in-law; and to
avoid him, I refused, for some time, to walk out without some other companion
than my niece. Latterly, I have seen less of him; and it is a fortnight or more
since we last met out walking. Had I known him to be a man of bad principles, as
you say he is, I would never have allowed him to interfere in my affairs—but how
could I suspect that, when I found Mrs. Watson treated him with perfect
confidence?—and he was evidently courted and caressed by nearly all the women of
my acquaintance in Croydon." "Those who know him best, have most reason to say
it is unsafe for you to associate with him; they know of what he is capable, and
are most shocked, of course, at your breach of conventional etiquette. I am
sorry to say that you are right in your assertion that he is courted and
caressed by women in general. In spite of his character, his manners make him
popular, and many weak-minded women encourage him in conduct which flatters
their vanity, by demonstrating admiration for their mental and personal charms.
But those who act thus, are severe judges of others. But tell me, are you really
going to Lady Fanny Allston's on his recommendation?" "No—her ladyship has
suddenly—and not very civilly—broken off the negotiation." "I am glad of it, my
dear; it would have been very undesirable that you should go there, throwing
yourself completely in the way of that man; it must have been his object. Poor
girl; any thing would be better than that." Emma was silent and thoughtful. "If
you have any resolution and strength of mind," continued he, "I advise you by
every means, to shun the neighbourhood of this dangerous man. The struggle may
be painful, but depend upon it, it will be less so by far, than the consequences
of indulging in your predilection for him." "I do not think that the danger you
apprehend for me, really exists," replied Emma, looking up suddenly. He shook
his head. "The young are always confident," said he, "but, if you build your
hopes on any degree of affection, which Morgan may have manifested, believe me
you are building on a quicksand, and you will as surely find yourself deceived
as his other victims!" "You quite misunderstand me," replied Emma, very
earnestly; "I would not dare to boast myself more infallible than other young
women, but I do not think I shall be put to the proof. I never had an idea, for
a moment, that Mr. Morgan entertained towards me any other than such friendly
feelings as you do yourself. It seemed to me very kind in him to interest
himself for an orphan—but it was a kindness which his age appeared to warrant.
For, though not quite so old as yourself, sir, he is old enough to be my father;
and I fancied it was with something of a paternal feeling that he regarded me.
As to my own sentiments towards him, I certainly felt grateful at first—but
latterly, there has been, I own, once or twice, a something in his manner which
made me suspicious of his principles, and induced me to shun private intercourse
with him. Do I speak in a way to convince you of candour, or do you mistrust my
confession, and doubt my word?" "I think I will venture to trust you—but I must
still repeat my warning—take care of yourself, and do not allow him to hurt your
reputation. You have enemies in Croydon, my dear." "I, sir! how is that
possible?—and yet, Mr. Morgan hinted the same to me!" "There, for once, he spoke
truth, whatever may have been his motive. But you are watched—whether from
simple curiosity, malice or envy, your movements have been traced, and are
spitefully commented on. It was in that way, that I heard of your walks with
him; and meeting you here, I could not resist warning you. I rather wonder we
have seen nothing of him, for I saw him following me as I took this path;
perhaps he is waiting till I leave you." "Would it be too much trouble for you
to see me safe home?" said Emma anxiously, "I should be so very much obliged if
you would." Mr. Bridge readily assented; and calling Janetta, they turned
towards the town. At one of the stiles they met the individual in question; he
had, apparently, been watching them; but though, perhaps, disappointed at the
result of their conference, he came forward with a bow and a smile, the most
insinuating, to hand Emma over it. Mr. Bridge observed gaily, that he feared he
was grown too old for gallantry, and he must not wonder if such agreeable
offices were taken out of his hands by men younger and more alert. The hand
which Mr. Morgan held, he seemed unwilling to relinquish, but drew it under his
arm with an appearance of considering it his right to support and guide her. At
another time she might hardly have noticed this, but with Mr. Bridge's warnings
ringing in her ears, she could not permit it to continue. Resolutely she drew
away her hand and turned towards the stile to enquire whether the elder
gentleman required any assistance. Mr. Morgan fixed his piercing eyes on her
with an enquiring look, as if to demand why his attentions were thus repulsed;
but he could not catch her eye, and he was forced to content himself with
walking quietly by her side. "I want particularly to speak to you, Miss Watson,"
said he presently in a low tone, as if wishing to avoid her companion's notice.
"I am quite at liberty to listen to you," replied Emma turning towards him. "It
is on your own affairs," said he as if hesitating, and glancing towards Mr.
Bridge; "I do not know how far it might be pleasant for you to have a third
person made conversant with them." "If it relates to the business with Lady
Fanny," answered Emma aloud, "I have just been talking the matter over with Mr.
Bridge, and he can therefore quite enter into the subject now." "It does relate
to that affair, and I am sorry—exceedingly sorry—that I should be the means of
occasioning you any disappointment, but I fear your hopes—I might say _our_
hopes in that quarter are all overthrown." "I am aware of that, Mr. Morgan,"
said Emma calmly; "I received a note to that effect this morning, and your
intelligence therefore is no shock to me; I feel much obliged for the zeal you
have shown in my favour, but on the whole I am as well satisfied that things
should be as they are." "Satisfied!" cried he looking at her. "You cannot really
mean that! the loss of such a prospect may be nothing to you, but the
reason—that is the evil." "I had no reason assigned me," replied Emma, "and only
concluded that her ladyship had changed her mind, which of course she had full
right to do." Mr. Morgan looked at her with an air as if he would penetrate her
brain. "I am so sorry," said he presently, "so very sorry that I have been the
means of leading you into this very unpleasant situation. But for me you would
never have met this repulse: I am vexed indeed!" "Do not take it so much to
heart," replied Emma more gaily than she felt, "for after all it is only what
any young woman in my situation might expect—a few repulses will serve to teach
me humility." "Aye, if you needed the lesson; but the reason is so very—"

He stopped abruptly. "What is the reason?" asked Emma. "I told you I knew of
none." "If you really do not, you had better not force me to say it; though you
cannot for a moment imagine that I believe there is a word of truth in Lady
Fanny's assertion—she must have been so completely misinformed." "I really
should be obliged to you to be explicit," replied Emma earnestly; "you admit
that you know the reasons—I must insist on knowing them likewise." "I am
unwilling to pain you, my dear Miss Emma." "Then you should not have alluded to
them at all; you cannot wonder if I now consider myself entitled to learn what
these mysterious reasons are." He drew out his pocket-book and took thence a
note, which he placed in her hand, saying,

"If it offends or affronts you, do not blame _me_ for it." Emma opened and read
a short note from Lady Fanny to Mr. Morgan, stating that having heard various
very discreditable reports concerning the young person he had named to her, she
must beg to decline all further intercourse with her. Emma's cheeks glowed as
she read the lines in question; but she said not a word. Quietly she re-folded
the note and returned it to Mr. Morgan. He was eagerly watching her, and as he
took it from her hand, he detained her fingers one moment, and stooping
whispered,

"You cannot think how grieved I am thus to pain you." "It is quite as well that
I should know it," she replied very calmly; and then a silence of some minutes
ensued. They had reached the garden gate before any one spoke again: she turned
to Mr. Bridge before entering, and whilst holding out her hand to him, said in a
low voice, "I am _very_ much obliged to you; may I have a little further
conversation with you another day?" "Certainly, whenever you wish; when can I
see you?" "I should like to see you alone," she replied. "Then I will manage
it—depend on me to-morrow." He then warmly shook hands, patted Janetta's
shoulder and walked off, concluding that Mr. Morgan would do so too. But here he
was mistaken, that gentleman having no intention of retiring so quickly. He had
opened the gate for Emma and stood leaning against it, till she turned and
prepared to pass, but then he laid his hand on her arm, and whilst closing the
gate upon them both, attempted to draw her a little on one side where a thick
screen of filberts concealed them from the house. "Come here, my dear girl,"
said he in a tone of familiarity which affronted Emma; "I thought that old
humbug was never going to leave us: it's too bad to be beset in that way." "Have
you anything to say to me, Mr. Morgan?" replied Emma in a freezing tone;
"because I must beg, if you have no particular reason, that you will not detain
me here." "I beg your pardon—I quite forgot," returned he in a very different
tone; "I am taking a liberty which nothing but my interest in you can excuse."
He then withdrew his hand from her arm, but still stood in her path. "The fact
is, my indignation at the slanderous tongues of our neighbours made me quite
forget everything else; do you know the meaning of that note I showed you—the
nature of the reports and their originator?" "I know simply what I read there,"
returned Emma, "and unless the subject is one of immediate importance, I must
decline to discuss _now_ and _here_ the cause of Lady Fanny's determination."
"Well, perhaps you are right, but I hardly expected that my warnings to you the
other night would so soon be realised; they have not scrupled to make mischief
of our meeting when out walking, and the report has reached Lady Fanny's ears."
"If that is the case, Mr. Morgan," replied Emma, her face flushing with
indignation, and her voice almost uncontrollably trembling from emotion, "if you
_know_ that to be the case, I wonder that kindness, courtesy, nay, the common
feelings of a gentleman, do not prompt you to avoid giving countenance to such
reports, by forcing yourself on my privacy, and intruding even here on my home.
I command you to let me pass this instant, and I desire that I may not again be
disturbed by a similar encounter." He did not dare dispute her command for a
moment, as she stood with her slight and graceful figure drawn up, and her
speaking face turned on him in indignation; he drew aside, and with a very low
bow allowed her to pass, and follow Janetta, who had trotted up towards the
house. He looked after her in an attitude of despair, but it was lost on Emma,
who never turned her head, or cast one relenting glance behind, but walked
straight into the house. In fact she felt very angry, and her anger increased
the more she thought of what had passed: it seemed to her as if he sought to
place her in equivocal situations, and rather wished that she might compromise
her reputation. Compared with the kindness of Mr. Bridge, his professed
friendship and zeal appeared hollow and unsatisfactory; and now that she found
she had another friend, she looked her difficulties more firmly in the face, and
determined not to endeavour to escape from one set of evils by risking another.
Still, when she thought of the words of Mr. Bridge, so sadly corroborated by Mr.
Morgan himself, she could not help a sigh and a shudder. She wished to ask his
advice as to what she had better do, but at the same time she tried to form an
opinion for herself, and questioned her own mind as to what was her duty on this
occasion. To avoid all intercourse with Mr. Morgan, and let the slanders die a
natural death from want of food to sustain them, appeared to her the safest
course, and she hoped Mr. Bridge would agree with her. She would gladly have
left the place had it been possible, but just at present there seemed no chance
of an escape. When the time of her promised visit to Osborne Castle arrived,
what a happiness it would be! She lay awake many hours that night thinking over
all the difficulties in her path, and planning how she could surmount them. One
idea weighed most strongly in her mind; it was, would Mr. Howard be at all
likely to hear any report concerning her, and would he believe it if he did. She
wished she could imagine he would hear of her at all; only from Miss Osborne had
she received any news of his proceedings, and she feared that their intercourse
was brought to an end for ever. How she might have viewed Mr. Morgan and his
attentions but for her previous acquaintance with Mr. Howard, she could not
tell, but she mentally compared the two men now, not a little to the
disadvantage of the former; and she felt persuaded that she could never care for
another, unless she were to meet with one who possessed all the good qualities
of Mr. Howard, and was better acquainted with his own mind. For, totally in the
dark as to the reason why Mr. Howard had suddenly withdrawn his attentions, and
recollecting well the many little signs which had escaped him of a more than
ordinary interest, she only concluded that he had, on further acquaintance,
found her different from what he wished, and that he had changed his mind and
views accordingly. She little knew that at this time he was suffering from a
constant, unceasing regret, and dwelling on their past intercourse as the most
precious and delightful period of his life. It was with a heavy head, and a
heavier heart, that she went through her daily routine the next morning, hearing
Janetta her alphabet, setting her sewing, and reading to her; she had great
difficulty in getting through with it, and could hardly fix her thoughts for
five minutes on the business on which she was employed. In the course of the
morning, Janetta was sent for to the drawing-room, and returned in about ten
minutes radiant with joy. Emma, who had lain down on the bed for a few minutes,
and was just closing her weary eyes in a doze, was suddenly roused by the news
that Mr. Bridge had come to ask Janetta to go to see his garden, and that he was
now waiting for them to accompany him home. Mindful of his promise, he had
called on Mrs. Watson, and after observing that he had met her little girl
gathering flowers, he begged she might come and see some of the beautiful
violets and anemonies in his garden. Mrs. Watson, delighted at the civility to
herself, which she discovered in any attention to her child, assented most
readily, and Emma had now to rouse herself as well as she could to accompany her
young charge. She felt so totally unequal to any exertion, that even her sense
of the kindness manifested by Mr. Bridge, and the interest he shewed in her, was
hardly sufficient to produce the energy requisite for the occasion. Her languid
movements, and the heavy eyelids immediately caught the attention of the kind
old man; but sensible how little sympathy her sufferings would probably excite
in the mind of her selfish sister-in-law, he made no comment until they were not
only out of the house, but safely hidden amidst the picturesque shrubberies
which enclosed the parsonage. Then kindly taking her hand and looking half-
smiling, half-sadly in her face, he said:

"I am afraid, poor girl, you have been fretting about what you learnt yesterday,
and that you feel it more deeply than you expected to do." "I have been thinking
a great deal about it, I allow," replied Emma, "and more about what Mr. Morgan
said yesterday after you left me. But surely you cannot be surprised at my
dejection, when you consider the various difficulties which present themselves
in my path." "I cannot help a small suspicion," replied he, with a sort of
cunning little smile, but which he speedily checked, "that you feel some regret
about Mr. Morgan himself." "No, you do me injustice; but on such a subject,
professions are perfectly useless, and I shall not attempt to make them. To
break off my intercourse with him will cost me nothing; but what does really
depress and annoy me, is the terrible idea than any slanderous reports should
have been circulated concerning that intercourse. He told me the story had
reached Lady Fanny Allston, and that it was for _that_ reason she had so
abruptly concluded all negotiation with me." "Very likely; her ladyship is the
greatest gossip in existence, and has a regular supply of the town news and
scandal, extracted from the butcher and baker, by her own maid, for her own
private amusement." "But if the story has travelled so far, how much farther may
it not spread—I shall lose my character altogether, and with it all chance of
earning an independent livelihood, and what will become of me?" Her lip
quivered, tears burst from her eyes, and her whole frame was visibly agitated,
to such a degree, that Mr. Bridge feared a fit of hysterics would ensue. Emma,
however, made a determined effort to conquer her emotion, and after two or three
minutes, succeeded so far as to resume an air of calmness, though it was some
time before she could speak again. "My dear girl," said the clergyman,
compassionately, "you must not give way to despondency—remember from whence your
trials come, and you will become calmer and stronger in the contemplation. You
do not seem to me at all to blame in what has passed, and whilst your conscience
is clear, you need never despair that your path will be made clear likewise."
"It is not only the present difficulty which weighs on my mind at this moment,"
replied Emma, trying to speak calmly; "but there are times when all I have lost
comes back to my memory, and seems quite to overpower me. My earliest friends
lost to me, and with them the happy home where I had enjoyed every indulgence,
and every pleasure that affection could procure. Then just as I began to
accustom myself to my new home, and learnt to value the affection and society of
my only parent, that likewise is torn from me, and whilst I am deprived of
parent and fortune, and become dependent on my own exertions, I find myself
robbed, I know not how, even of my good name, and my prospects blighted in the
most mysterious manner. It seems in vain to struggle against such a complication
of evils; what can I expect but to sink into contempt and disgrace?" "I admit
the greatness of the losses you have sustained," said he; "I cannot deny that it
may be hard to bear; but you have still some blessings left for which you may be
thankful. You possess a healthy constitution, a sound intellect, and a
conscience unoppressed by a sense of guilt. You might have lost your heart, as
well as your fortune, and that you tell me is not the case." Emma looked down,
and tried to appear quite careless and unconcerned; but she could not feel quite
convinced that she did enjoy the degree of heart's ease, which Mr. Bridge seemed
to imagine. An image of Mr. Howard flitted across her mind, and she felt that
whilst enumerating her peculiar afflictions, she had omitted one which pressed
almost as deeply as any. She blushed deeply, and could not raise her eyes; he
watched her countenance, and then added, presently—

"What do you mean to do now—have you formed any plan?" "None at all," replied
she; "I feel I cannot—my head is all in confusion, and I can hardly think
connectedly." She pressed her hand on her forehead as she spoke; he saw she was
looking extremely ill, and feared her mind was over excited. "My first wish,"
she continued, "the first object of my life would be to get away from Croydon,
to see no more of those who slander me, or him who causes the slander to
circulate. But this I cannot do; whilst I have no other refuge, and whilst
Margaret's marriage is approaching, I suppose I must not go. But if I could but
leave them all, and have a little peace and quiet—it is sometimes more than I
can bear; the perpetual worry, and the incessant anxiety to please without
success—and those thoughts that will come back in spite of all that I can
do—thoughts of regret for past happiness, and hopeless pining for what I may
never see again." "And you are quite sincere in wishing to leave Croydon, and go
where you will see no more of Mr. Morgan? is it no momentary pique that
influences you, no hope of being followed, no expectation of producing some
great effect by your disappearance." "I wish I could convince you, Mr. Bridge,
that whatever the world of Croydon may impute to me, whatever it may choose to
say for me, Mr. Morgan was never an object of any peculiar interest in my eyes,
and since they have associated our names to my discredit, he is become
positively disagreeable. To shun him altogether is, just now, my first wish."
"Then, perhaps, I may help you there; I will, at least, try—your desolate
situation interests me deeply—poor girl—you look terribly worn and flushed—go
home, and lie down to rest; try and compose your mind, and hope for better
things. But above all, my child, endeavour to subdue a repining spirit, and
remember that there is One above, who is the Father of the fatherless, and who
has promised never to forsake those who call upon Him faithfully!" CHAPTER III.
Emma took Janetta home, and weary and worn out, she laid herself down upon her
own bed, and there dropped into a heavy slumber. In consequence of her non-
appearance at the dinner table, Elizabeth went in search of her, and rousing her
up, persuaded her to attempt coming down stairs, though Emma, at first, felt so
totally unequal to the exertion, that she declared she could not stir. "Jane is
so very cross to-day," remonstrated Elizabeth; "I am sure I do not know what is
the matter with her, but she seems so very angry about something or other, that
if you can contrive to come down you will save a great deal of after trouble. Is
your head really so very bad; you do look rather ill certainly, but you need not
eat, only just try to sit at table." Slowly and languidly Emma rose from her
bed; her head ached so intensely that she could scarcely raise her eyes; an iron
band appeared to be compressing her forehead, and seemed every moment to
increase in pressure. She tried to arrange her hair, and her dress, disordered
by lying on the bed, but felt incapable of the exertion; leaning on Elizabeth's
arm, she descended to the dining-parlour, and took her seat at the table. Robert
offered to help her to some meat, but Emma declined eating. Jane never
condescended to lift her eyes until the table was cleared, and then she
sarcastically observed—

"I am extremely sorry, Miss Emma Watson, that there is nothing on my table good
enough for you to eat to-day; shall I send over to the pastry-cook's, and see if
he has any little delicacies to tempt your fastidious appetite? I am not so
unreasonable as to expect a young lady like you to dine on roast mutton and
plain pudding." "I am not very well," replied Emma, "and have no appetite to-
day; but it is my own misfortune, not the fault of your dinner, I am sure."
"Upon my word you honor my table with a very pretty costume," eyeing Emma
fixedly, "may I ask how long it has been your fashion to have your hair awry in
that way, and your gown tumbled—do you come out of your bed, or have you been
indulging in an interesting game of romps?" Robert looked at Emma, and even he
was struck with the appearance of suffering; and coupling with it the fact that
she had eaten no dinner, and moreover, feeling rather cross with his wife, he
began to defend her, desiring Jane not to worry his sister, as it was evident
she was very far from well. Mrs. Watson fired up at this. She wondered what
people could mean speaking to ladies that way—she was sure they must quite
forget who they were addressing—as to what she said to Emma, she wondered what
she should be forbidden to say next! "Really it was too good, if she might not
find fault with a girl like Emma in her own house, and at her own table too! She
supposed the next thing she should hear, would be that Emma sat there to find
fault with her. Her manners, her dress, her general behaviour would be called
into question; if Emma gave her approbation no doubt, she should be right—she
only hoped she should not be obliged to adopt the elegant negligence of Miss
Emma Watson's present style—it was not to her taste she was afraid she must
confess. "Emma has really a very bad headache," interposed Elizabeth, "and would
be much better in bed." "Then pray, let her to go to bed," cried Jane, tossing
her head; "who wants her to sit up? not _I_, I am sure; she may go to bed if she
likes; but, if she thinks I am going to call in a doctor for her, she is very
much mistaken; I will indulge no such whims and fancies." Emma gladly availed
herself of the permission to retire thus graciously accorded, and Elizabeth
accompanied her up-stairs and assisted her to undress; neither would she leave
her until summoned down to tea; even then, the temptation of Mr. Millar coming
in, could not detain her from Emma's room; she told him how ill her sister was,
and she returned to sit by her bedside, and attempt, by cool applications, to
allay the burning, throbbing pain in her head, which Emma complained almost
drove her mad. But she showed no symptoms of amendment, and towards morning she
was in a decided fever. Elizabeth, who had sat up with her all night, now
pressed her to consent to see Mr. Morgan—the name made her shudder, and she
resolutely refused to do so. She declared she was not _very_ ill—nothing more
than her sister's skill could alleviate; but that to see Mr. Morgan would
infallibly make her worse. Elizabeth thought this rather odd, but she let her
have her own way, and said no more about the doctor. Mrs. Watson began to be
frightened, when she found that Emma was really very ill; she too then proposed
her seeing the doctor; but with more moderation, though with equal firmness Emma
rejected her proposal, as she had done that of Elizabeth. She only wished to see
Mr. Bridge—but she had not energy or courage to request an interview with him;
she lay in a kind of half-dreamy state, during the greater part of that day and
the next; then Elizabeth thought her worse, and without asking her any more on
the subject she went to Robert—and with tears in her eyes, entreated that some
advice might be sent for—as otherwise, she felt sure Emma would die. This
startled Robert—it would have been so exceedingly unpleasant—it would have
interfered sadly with Margaret's marriage—and in several other ways would have
greatly inconvenienced himself. Accordingly, he decided at once, that Mr. Morgan
should be called in, and so he was. Emma was in too profound a state of stupor
to notice him, or to be aware of what was passing beside her bed. She did wake a
little at the sound of voices, but she could not guess whose they were; they
seemed to her even a great way off—though, in reality, close to her; he might
hold her hand now, she could not withdraw it; nay, when he put back the dark
hair from her brow, and laid his hand on her temples to count the throbbing of
the pulse there—she made no resistance now—she was unconscious of his touch. He
was not alarmed about her, though he saw she was really ill—too ill for him to
flatter his vanity with the idea that it was affected for the sake of seeing
him; but he felt sure she would recover, and greatly consoled Elizabeth by his
lively hopes on this subject. Nevertheless, he came to see her twice that
evening, and early again the next morning. On neither visit did he find her
sufficiently conscious to recognise him—but she gradually began to amend—and on
waking from a prolonged slumber on the afternoon of the third day, she was
sufficiently restored to the use of her faculties, to enquire of Elizabeth,
whether any one had been attending her during the intervening time. Her sister,
without circumlocution, told her how often Mr. Morgan had seen her, and added,
that he was to come again that evening. Emma appeared excessively discomposed,
and asked her if she could not prevent his coming; persisting that she did not
want to see any doctor, and that, if she were only left alone, she should soon
be well. Miss Watson, who considered this merely as a fancy belonging to her
state of disease, tried to avoid giving her a direct answer, and when she found
this would not satisfy her, she endeavoured to persuade Emma of the unreasonable
nature of her request, and ended by saying she would see what could be done for
her. Of course Mr. Morgan came at the time appointed, end she was obliged to
bear it, though the very sight of him threw her into such a state of agitation
that his feeling her pulse was perfectly useless and only served to mislead him.
He had, however, too much penetration not to discover quickly that his presence
caused the feverish symptoms which at first alarmed him; he would gladly have
persuaded himself that they indicated partiality, but not even his vanity could
so far mislead him. The averted eye, the constrained voice, the cold composed
look which wore the expression of her real feelings, told him a very different
tale. He felt that he had lost ground in her good opinion, though he could not
exactly tell why or how, and still less did he know how to recover it. His visit
was short, and his conversation confined entirely to professional subjects, and
he took his leave of her with a bow which was intended to express a profound
mixture of admiration and respect towards her, mingled with regret, self-
reproach, humility and penitence on his part. If any bow could have conveyed so
much meaning, it would certainly have been his, and it did undoubtedly express
the utmost that a bow could do. Emma drew a long breath when he was gone, and
whispered,

"I wish he would never come again." Elizabeth tried seriously to convince her
that she was exceedingly unjust, and pressed her to name any fault she could
find with Mr. Morgan, of her own knowledge, not speaking merely from hear-say.
Emma's nerves were not in a state to bear argument, and instead of answering she
began to cry, and went off in a fit of hysterics which Elizabeth had great
difficulty in soothing away. The next morning Emma requested Elizabeth to
procure her a visit from Mr. Bridge; she could not rest longer without an
interview, and she now felt strong enough to make her wishes known. She would
not allow any reference to be made to Jane, but sent a request, in her own name,
that he would call on her, and when this request was complied with, as it
speedily was, she sent Elizabeth out of the room that she might have an
unreserved conversation with her old friend. Her first question to him was
whether he had as yet done anything towards procuring her removal from Croydon.
He believed that she must recover her health before anything could be done with
that view. But she so earnestly assured him that she should regain strength with
twice the rapidity if he would only let her know what he proposed to do, that he
told her to set her mind at ease, as he had already arranged a plan for her
comfort. He had a sister, a single lady, residing about fourteen miles from
Croydon, and if she liked to go and pass a few weeks with her, she would be sure
of retirement and tranquillity with every comfort that could be desired. Emma
was delighted with the idea; she was certain she should like Miss Bridge, and
that nothing could be more agreeable than residing in the country quite retired
and with only one pleasant companion. There she should continue, she trusted,
until Miss Osborne renewed her solicitations for her society, and even after
that visit was paid she might return there. She pictured to herself how she
would engage in a thousand useful and agreeable occupations, and how she would
love the charming old lady on whom she would attend with unremitting zeal. She
declared that she felt herself increasing every moment in strength by the
contemplation of such a residence, and she trusted that she should soon be out
of sight and sound of Mr. Morgan and all the inquisitorial residents of
Croydon—how soon should she be able to go? This Mr. Bridge told her depended
entirely on the state of her health; as soon as she could be moved with safety
he would take her in his own carriage half of the way, where his sister would
meet her and convey her the other half. "Oh, let it be to-morrow!" cried she; "I
am sure I shall be well enough—my strength is greater than you think." "Well
well, we will ask the doctor," replied he. "Do not ask Mr. Morgan anything about
it," said Emma flushing again deeply. "I do not want to have anything to do with
him that I can help. I believe it was one thing that made me ill, because they
would have him to visit me." "Come, be reasonable," said he smiling; "if you
talk in that way I shall think you light-headed. Now I must leave you; I will
see you again to-morrow morning, and if I find you well enough, will send word
to my sister at once and settle your plans." He took leave, and was quitting the
room when he met Elizabeth returning, and Emma anxious that her sister should
immediately participate in her pleasant prospects, begged him if he could spare
a few minutes more to stop and explain their plans. Miss Watson of course was
very much pleased at hearing what he had to tell, and immediately saw all the
advantages to Emma which such a removal would procure, except the _one_
principal one, which was the secret source of her sister's eagerness to put it
in execution. But she had never heard a syllable of the reports which had been
so industriously circulated relative to Emma and Mr. Morgan, and was very far
from imagining he could in any way, either as an object of love or of hatred,
influence her feelings or proceedings. She admitted that it was in every way
desirable that Emma should have a peaceful and comfortable home, and the only
thing she stipulated for was, that she should return to Croydon as soon as she
herself could offer her an equally comfortable abode in her own house. This
point Emma did not feel disposed to dispute, though she secretly entered a
protest against returning to Croydon for a residence if she could in any way
avoid it. She proved herself right in her anticipations that the relief to her
mind would be of essential service to her body; she was so very much better the
next morning as to be able to leave her bed-room, and sit up some time in
Janetta's nursery, and here she was, with her little niece standing beside her,
and no one else in the room, when Mr. Morgan was suddenly ushered in. She
received him with a calm self-possession which astonished herself, and, at the
same time, a degree of frigid composure which seemed to imply that the past,
both of good and evil, was swept from her mind, that she had to begin again in
her acquaintance with him, and meant only to recognise him in future as the
doctor, and not the friend. It was in vain that he sat beside her, and in his
most winning tones tried to establish confidence between them; she was perfectly
calm and composed, but impenetrably grave, yielding to neither tenderness nor
gaiety, and he was just rising to go when she made her first suggestive
observation, by telling him that she was so much better she should be able to
take a drive to-morrow. He assented, of course, if the weather was favorable,
and added, that as her sister had no carriage he hoped he might be allowed to
take her out in his. With sincere pleasure at being able to decline it, Emma
thanked him, assuring him it was quite unnecessary, as Mr. Bridge had promised
her his. He looked disappointed; he could not bear that she should have any
friends but himself: what would he have felt, had he known the real object of
the drive in question. His departure, which Emma had thought most unnecessarily
delayed, left her at liberty to think about Mr. Bridge's promised visit; she had
long to wait, he came delighted to see her better, and quite willing to
acknowledge that she might be removed the next day. The necessary arrangements
he undertook to make; he could send his sister word that she might expect them,
and he determined to drive over the whole way himself, and spend one night at
her house. He likewise agreed to go and inform her own brother and his wife of
what was about to take place, and thereby save Emma all excitement, if the
information should happen to be ill received. Accordingly, in persuance of this
plan, he paid Mrs. Watson a visit before leaving the house, and in answer to his
gentle tap at the door, received an invitation to enter, which brought him into
an extremely untidy and heated parlour. Jane was sitting over the fire with her
feet on the fender, her gown turned up over her knees, and her petticoat
emitting a strong smell of scorching, which almost overpowered him. She was
reading a work of some kind, which she hid behind her when she saw her visitor,
whilst she tried to arrange her hair and cap in a rather less slatternly way.
Margaret was busy trimming a hat with white satin ribbons, and judging from the
shreds of white materials of divers kinds lying beside her, had been deeply
engrossed in the dress-making or millinery line. After sitting a few minutes,
Mr. Bridge enquired if he could see Mr. Watson, and though his wife was quite
certain it was impossible, it so happened that Robert entered at that very time.
"I am so glad to see you," said Mr. Bridge on shaking hands with him, "I wanted
to get your leave to carry off your youngest sister." "What, Emma?" said Robert,
"why she's ill I understand." "She is better to-day," replied he, "but she wants
change of air and scene, and I want to get it for her." "Why, what new fancy of
hers is this?" exclaimed Mrs. Watson, "that girl's head is always full of some
strange vagary or another; it's only the other day she would not walk out, and
now she's wanting to go away, and she keeping her bed and pretending to be ill."

"Where do you want to take her to?" enquired Robert, unheeding his wife's
speech. "Why, my sister wishes for a companion, and I think they would suit each
other very well; and it really appears to me that she feels the confinement and
application necessary in her present mode of life too much for her." "My dear
Mr. Bridge," cried Mrs. Watson in a fawning tone, "don't you, please, believe
that she is a prisoner, or acting under compulsion; I am sure you would have too
much regard for me to go and set such a story about—only think what my feelings
would be were such a story circulated about my dear husband's sister." "I did
not mean to say anything to hurt your feelings, Mrs. Watson," replied the
clergyman coolly, "but you cannot deny that your sister-in-law has been ill, and
that at present she is incapable of continuing her labors as governess to your
little girl: I do not exaggerate in that statement." "Oh dear no—but then she
never had any great labors to go through; nothing I am sure but what any one
might accomplish." "I am of opinion she has exerted herself too much in every
way; and as my sister's house will be very quiet, and they are persuaded they
shall suit each other, I really think the best thing she can do will be to go
there." "I don't see that at all," replied Jane rather snappishly, "I cannot
spare her; I want her to take charge of Janetta; what am I to do without her?"
"I understood her services in that way were very trifling," interposed Mr.
Bridge. "Just her teaching may be," said she retracting a little, "but then she
is accustomed to take care of her all day long, and I cannot spare her from
that." "Not unless you find a substitute," said he. "But I cannot do that, I do
not like to leave her entirely to servants, and unless I mind the child myself
what can I do; and I suppose no one would expect _me_ to become a slave to my
little girl, and shut myself up in a nursery." "Then why exact it of her?"
suggested Mr. Bridge. "Because whilst she is living at my husband's expense, I
think it only fair that I should profit from her cares in that way; and I
consider it always a charity to give young people something to do." "That may be
very true whilst she is here perhaps; but it seems to me a little unreasonable,
begging your pardon for saying so, to keep her against her will, and then make
her work to cover the expense of staying." "I am sure I don't know why you
should find fault: _I_ have not _time_ to teach my child myself, if I had the
health for such an exertion." "You never seem to have either time or inclination
to do anything, Jane:" said the husband, "look at this room—was there ever such
an untidy pigsty for a lady to live in; why cannot you take a little trouble and
make it look decent." "You had better arrange it after your own fashion," said
she scornfully, "if you do not like mine." "As to this plan of yours, Mr.
Bridge," continued Robert, "I think it a capital one; and the sooner you can
take her away the better—when do you mean to go?" Mrs. Watson was silenced
altogether, and Mr. Bridge proceeded to explain the plan of their proceedings as
proposed by himself. Robert highly approved of it all, and gave his full consent
and approbation to Mr. Bridge with the more zest, because it appeared to annoy
his wife. After this it was of course vain for her to make objections; he was
completely master of his own house, and Jane knew, from sad experience, that she
might produce as much effect by talking to the tables and chairs as to him, when
in one of his stubborn fits. All she could do, therefore, was to be as cross as
possible for the rest of the day to those around her, in consequence of which
she was left to a _tête-à-tête_ with Margaret, as Elizabeth was upstairs making
preparations for Emma's departure, and Robert went out to spend the evening with
some bachelor friends. CHAPTER IV. Punctually the next day, Mr. Bridge drove to
the door, and at the same moment Mr. Morgan entered the house. Emma was in the
parlour quite ready for her journey, and her eye sparkled with pleasure as she
told him that she should not trouble him to call on her again, for she was
leaving Croydon for a long time. He looked aghast.—

"Going away," was his exclamation, as he cast an enquiring eye at the trunk
which Mr. Bridge's man was preparing to place on the carriage. "This is quite
unexpected—may I ask where you are going?" "It is Mr. Bridge who is taking me
away," replied Emma, "and really I can hardly answer as to _where_ we are going.
I am wishing to try a change of air, as I do not find Croydon agree with me."
"This is Mr. Bridge's doing then," said he, his face turning pale with an
emotion which she did not understand. He felt convinced that his plans had been
seen through and counteracted, and entertained, in consequence, anything but a
feeling of gratitude towards the agent of his disappointment. At this moment the
clergyman entered, and claimed Emma's company, and after an affectionate
farewell from Miss Watson, and a formal bow from the doctor, she was hurried
away. The other two ladies were out walking, as Jane was determined not to
countenance Emma's departure by her presence on the occasion. Emma felt so very
much relieved as she lost sight of Croydon, and entered on a country quite new
to her, that she fancied she was deriving fresh health and strength from every
breath she inhaled. She was, however too weak to bear much conversation, and was
content to lie back in peace and silence in a corner of the carriage, quietly
reposing on the cushions with which she had been carefully propped, and enjoying
the luxury of seeing the varying landscape pass before her eyes, without making
any exertion. Mr. Bridge was reading; and in this way the fourteen miles were
pleasantly and quickly passed, and in about two hours from leaving Croydon, they
stopped at the door of Miss Bridge's residence. It was a small, old-fashioned
house, with a thick screen of shrubs surrounding it, and a few picturesque old
Scotch firs standing on the little grass plat which divided the front from the
road. The walls were covered with creeping shrubs, and it was evident that the
owner loved flowers, for early as it was in the year, the little porch was
crowded with showy plants, and odoriferous with the scent of the hyacinth,
narcissus and other sweet bulbs. The old lady came out to receive them, and the
warmth of her welcome, with the kindness of her manner, quite won Emma's heart
at once. She saw that her guest was fatigued, and would not allow her to exert
herself in any way; but leading her upstairs, made her rest on the bed, and left
her promising to return in a short time. The air of comfort which now surrounded
Emma, was truly grateful to her feelings; the airy and well-furnished bed-room,
the snowy curtains and drapery round the bed, the comfortable furniture, all
seemed to bespeak an attention to her wants, to which she had long been a
stranger; and as she lay there thinking over all that was past, and wondering
what was to come next, a deep feeling of gratitude stole over her heart for
finding herself at last in so peaceful and apparently comfortable a home.
Faithful to her promise, Miss Bridge returned speedily, bringing with her some
refreshment, of which she insisted on Emma's partaking; and then desiring her to
remain quiet for a couple of hours at least, she returned to her brother, and
spent the interval in learning every particular that he could detail relative to
her interesting young visitor. When Emma woke from a refreshing slumber of
several hours duration, the first object which met her eyes was the countenance
of Miss Bridge bending over her. There was such a look of benevolent interest in
that good-tempered face, as would have sufficed to redeem a very plain set of
features from the charge of insipidity. But Miss Bridge was very far from plain,
and it was evident she must have been eminently handsome. She was extremely
thin, and her high features, and dark complexion made her look, perhaps, rather
older than she really was, but her eyes which were dark hazel were still bright
and lively. Her dress was that of an old woman, the colours grave, and the
materials rich, and though not exactly in the reigning fashion of the day, yet
sufficiently like it to prevent any appearance of singularity, whilst it was
perfectly becoming her age and station. Emma felt sure that she should like her
exceedingly, and quite longed to be strong enough to converse with her. She was
found so much better as to be permitted to leave her room, and lie for a time on
the sofa in the drawing-room, though Miss Bridge still proscribed conversation,
and recommended quiet and rest. Everything that she saw gave her an idea of the
comfort of her new home; the well-filled book-shelves especially delighted her;
she had enjoyed so little time for reading lately that the sight of such a
collection of books was a most welcome prospect, and she anticipated with
satisfaction the time when she should be able to exert herself again, and
commence the acquisition of the Italian language; as she was extremely anxious
to increase her information and accomplishments to the utmost. The next day the
old clergyman took his leave, and telling Emma not to fret about her friends at
Croydon, and hoping when he came over next month, he should find her with rosy
cheeks and smiles to welcome him, he went off quite satisfied that he had
secured a comfortable home for his young friend, and a desirable companion for
his old sister. Nothing could be more peaceful and pleasant to a contented mind
than the course of life in which Emma now engaged. She speedily recovered her
strength, and was able by early rising to enjoy several hours alone in the
morning, which she devoted to study; by this means she was always at liberty to
give her whole attention to Miss Bridge so soon as they met in the drawing-room.
Their fore-noons were employed in reading and needlework, unless when Miss
Bridge was writing letters or settling her household matters. Walking out, or
working in the garden occupied the afternoon, and in both these occupations, as
soon as Emma was strong enough, she took great delight. The garden was
cultivated with uncommon care; Miss Bridge having quite a passion for
floriculture, and Emma thought nothing could exceed the beauty of her tulips,
anemones and hyacinths, as they gradually unfolded their blossoms. She became
extremely interested in the pursuit, and Miss Bridge more than once had to
interfere to prevent her over tiring herself by her zealous labours. The country
round their residence was extremely pretty; tracts of old forest land with the
huge old trees, survivors of many centuries, formed an agreeable contrast to the
agricultural districts interspersed in places; and the steep sides of some of
the chalky hills were clothed with hanging beech woods equally picturesque with
the green forest glades beneath. To wander over this scenery, botanising amongst
the lanes and hedgerows, or visiting the various cottages in the neighbourhood,
formed a delightful variety to their labours in the garden. Emma found that next
to the clergyman, Miss Bridge was looked up to as the guardian and friend of the
poor. Every wounded limb, or distressing domestic affliction was detailed to
her. Her advice was sought equally when the pig died, the baby was born, or the
husband was sick. Her medicine-chest was in frequent requisition, but her
kitchen and dairy still more so. For one dose of rhubarb which she dispensed,
she gave away at least two dinners, and those well acquainted with the poor may
judge whether by so doing she was not likely to prevent as much illness as she
cured; for by far the greater part of the diseases amongst the labouring classes
arise from scanty food and too thin clothing. Of course she was the idol, the
oracle of all the villagers, and the more so because there was no squire nor
squire's family in the parish to diminish her importance or dim the lustre of
her position. In fact she was the sister of the last squire, and since his
death, as his eldest son resided on another property, the manor-house had stood
empty and deserted. It quite grieved Emma to see it, for the house with its
gable-ends and old-fashioned porch was very picturesque; but they derived one
advantage from the desolate condition in which it was left, as they had the
uncontrolled range of the gardens and pleasure-grounds, which were very
extensive. The little church stood within these grounds, and by its situation
somewhat reminded her of Osborne Castle. But how different was the Rector. He
was an old, formal bachelor, living with an unmarried sister, extremely nervous
and shy, and more remarkable for his total disregard to punctuality than any
other point. This was peculiarly evident on the Sunday, when the whole
congregation were always assembled at least a quarter of an hour before his
appearance amongst them. If the day was fine, they did not enter the church but
remained strolling up and down the pasture in which it stood, until the minister
appeared and led the way into the sacred building. The congregation, which was
almost entirely composed of the rural population, presented a very different
aspect from that at Croydon; there were few smart bonnets, and the gayest
articles of apparel in the church were the scarlet cloaks of the women. The dark
and old-fashioned building itself had no ornaments but the hatchments belonging
to the Bridge family, and one or two ugly and cumbrous monuments upon the walls,
which seemed intended to record that certain individuals had been born and died,
though what they did when living was now totally forgotten. When the service was
concluded, the clergyman quitted the pulpit and walked out before all his
congregation, who stood up respectfully to let him pass, and then Miss Bridge
and Emma, who had their seat in the squire's pew, followed before any one else
presumed to stir from their places: there was then a friendly greeting between
the Rector and his principal parishioners, after which they took their quiet way
homewards, to partake of their early dinner, and return to the afternoon
service. Such was the tenor of Emma's life, whilst she remained with Miss
Bridge—the only incident that varied the scene, was a drive over to Croydon one
day, in order to attend Margaret's wedding. Emma had recovered her strength so
rapidly, that she was perfectly equal to the exertion, and Margaret had sent a
pressing invitation not only to her, but to Miss Bridge likewise. It was,
therefore, settled that they should go and spend the night at the vicarage, as
Robert Watson's house was quite full—with the addition of some cousins of his
wife, who were paying a visit. In consequence of this arrangement, she did not
see her future brother-in-law that day; but Elizabeth spent the afternoon with
them. She saw, with sincere pleasure, how much Emma was improved in looks—she
was plumper and fresher—more blooming and bewitching than ever; and so thought
Mr. Morgan too—for he likewise, called to see her—and was quite startled with
the alteration in her appearance. "I need not ask you _how_ you are," said he,
fixing on her eyes which spoke his admiration as plainly as if he had put it
into words; "you are looking _so_ well." Emma was forced to turn away, for the
expression of his face was too openly admiring to be pleasant. Elizabeth had a
long chat with her in private: there was so much to learn about her new way of
life, and so much to tell in return, that it seemed as if four and twenty hours
instead of two, might have been talked away with ease. There was much to discuss
about Margaret's prospects; Elizabeth was very little satisfied with Tom
Musgrove, and only wondered that her sister appeared so well pleased as she did.
He was careless and cold—almost to insolence—and had, evidently, tried to annoy
her in every way he could; flirting with every girl who came in his way, and
only shewing that he was not careless to her feelings, by his repeated attempts
to wound them. To all this she seemed perfectly indifferent—whether from vanity,
she really did _not_ see, or from wilful blindness she _would_ not perceive his
meaning, Elizabeth could not tell; but she always continued to preserve a most
satisfied air; and when slighted by Tom, sought peace and contentment in the
contemplation of her wedding presents and bridal finery; constantly talking as
if she enjoyed the unlimited affection of the most amiable and agreeable man in
the world. "And who do you think appeared amongst us last week?" continued
Elizabeth, "actually Lord Osborne! Ah! you color and look pleased—and well you
may—for I have no doubt Croydon would never have seen his countenance, if he had
not thought you still living here!" "Lord Osborne!" said Emma astonished, "what
brought his lordship here—do you know?" "The ostensible reason, was to bring a
present to Margaret from his sister—a very pretty necklace as a wedding present;
but the real reason, I have not the smallest doubt was, to see you—and had he
not supposed you were still here, the parcel might have come by the coach, for
any trouble he would have given himself about it." "It was very good-natured of
Miss Osborne, to remember Margaret in that way," said Emma, "how pleased she
must have been." "Yes, I think she was—it seemed even to put Tom in a better
humour with her and every thing—it gave her a sort of consequence." "What did
Lord Osborne say?" enquired Emma, hoping to hear something relative to Mr.
Howard. "Oh! we had a long talk together, and he enquired particularly about
you, and where and how you were; and he said he hoped very soon to see you. He
talked about expecting you to visit his sister; in short, he seemed to have a
great deal to say for himself—and really for _him_, was quite agreeable. To be
sure, I do not think him quite so pleasant as George Millar, but every body need
not have my taste of course." "Well, I should like to have seen him—did he say
nothing about our friends, Mrs. Willis and her brother—how are they?" "He said,
what I was sorry to hear, that Mr. Howard appeared ill and out of spirits. I
wonder what can be the matter with him—do you think he can be in love?" "I am
not in his confidence," said Emma, coloring deeply. "You will see him, of
course," said Elizabeth, "if you go to Osborne Castle—be sure and let me know
what you think of him, then; do ascertain if he is in love." "You had better
make observations for yourself, Elizabeth," replied her sister, "how can I judge
of a sentiment with which I am unacquainted; wait till you visit Margaret, and
you will be able to form your own opinions." "I do not think I shall ever visit
Margaret," replied Elizabeth; "so if I do not see Mr. Howard under any other
circumstances, our chance of meeting is but small." The wedding-day was as
bright and sunshiny as any bride could desire. Emma's thoughts wandered from
Margaret and her companions to the bridal party in London, who she imagined
would be engaged in the same ceremony about the same hour. She knew Mr. Howard
was to officiate for her friend, and she tried to picture the scene to herself;
then she imagined another group, where Mr. Howard himself should perform the
part of bridegroom; and wondered what her own feelings would be if she were the
witness of such a spectacle. She was ashamed of herself when she recalled her
mind from this vision, and she tried to think of something more appropriate to
the occasion. She joined in the prayers for her sister's happiness, but her
heart trembled as she thought of her prospects; however, it was no use
foreboding evil—she tried to hope for the best. Margaret was not satisfied with
her two sisters as bridesmaids, but both she and Tom had insisted on having four
more from amongst her intimate friends. One of these was the younger Miss
Morgan, and as a compliment to her, her brother was invited to be of the party
to church. He stood by Emma; but she was unconscious of it, until, when the
ceremony was concluded, and there was a general congratulation, and kissing
going on, she felt her hand clasped by some one, and on her turning round, he
whispered in her ear,—"When shall you stand in your sister's place?" Before she
had time to answer, or even to understand exactly what he had said, her new-made
brother came up and claimed the right of kissing her—the double right in fact,
both as bridegroom and brother—and when she had submitted to the infliction, she
again heard it whispered into her ear:

"_That_ is the only part which I envy Mr. Musgrove." Emma moved away without
looking round again, and took her station by the side of her friend, Miss
Bridge, where she felt convinced that Mr. Morgan would not dare to intrude on
her. There was something in the change of manner which he had lately assumed to
her, most particularly offensive and grating to her feelings. Another thing she
could not avoid remarking was, that some of the young ladies affected to shun
her, shrinking away when she approached, and abruptly changing the conversation,
as if some mystery were going on between them. This was more particularly
evident during the party which succeeded the wedding; when she found herself
rather a conspicuous person two or three times, being left alone by those she
approached—and on more than one occasion, seeing a group suddenly disperse on
her drawing near; she did not comprehend the reason of this, but she felt it
particularly disagreeable; and it induced her as soon as she noticed it, to keep
close to Miss Bridge, in order to avoid the feeling of solitude in a crowd which
was so distressing to her. The meeting after the wedding was as dull as such
affairs usually are, and right glad was Emma when the time for retiring came,
and she was able to return to the peaceful vicarage. The next day she again left
Croydon, and once more found repose and tranquillity beneath Miss Bridge's
hospitable roof. CHAPTER V.

Much as Emma's thoughts had been dwelling on her acquaintance in London, she
little guessed the scene that had really been passing, or the prominent figure
which Mr. Howard had made on the occasion. When the ceremony was performed, the
breakfast over, and the new married couple had left the house, Lady Osborne
retired to her dressing-room, and thither she sent for Mr. Howard. Without the
slightest suspicion as to the real object of her wishes, he obeyed the summons,
and found her ladyship alone. She requested him to be seated, and then looked
exceedingly embarrassed, and not a little silly; but after some attempts at
conversation, which ended in total failures, she suddenly observed:

"The marriage of my daughter makes a great difference to me, Mr. Howard." "Of
course it must," replied he, rather wondering what would come next. "I fear I
shall find myself very uncomfortable if I continue in the same style of life I
have done before; without Miss Osborne I shall be quite lost." Mr. Howard could
not help thinking that he should have supposed few mothers would have felt the
change so little. They had never been companions or appeared of any consequence
to each other. However he felt it his duty to make some cheering observation,
and therefore ventured to suggest that her ladyship should not give way to such
desponding thoughts: she might, perhaps, find it less painful than she
anticipated. "You are very kind to try to cheer me in my melancholy situation,
but, Mr. Howard, I have always found you so, and I am deeply indebted to you for
the many hours of comfort you have at different times procured for me. You have
always been my friend." He did not at all know what to say to this speech, and
was therefore silent. "Do you consider," continued she, "that gratitude is a
good foundation for happiness in the married state?" "It is, no doubt, a good
foundation for affection," replied he, "but unless the superstructure is raised,
I do not think the foundation will be of much use. It is not sufficient of
itself." "You distress me by your opinion, I had hoped that to secure gratitude
was the certain way to produce love." "I apprehend that your ladyship will find
it much more easy to deserve gratitude than to _secure_ it; it is an intractable
virtue, and favors which are supposed to have this return as their object, are
apt to fail entirely in their purpose." "I am very sorry you say so, Mr. Howard;
I wish I could secure love from the objects of my affection. I fear the case is
exactly the reverse." The gentleman was silent, and a pause ensued between them,
which the lady broke. "What do you think of my daughter's marriage?" "I think,"
replied he, "it has every promise of securing them mutual happiness—I hope this
as sincerely as I wish it. Sir William is an excellent young man." "The marriage
is not so high a one as what _my_ daughter might have aspired to—she has given
up all dreams of ambition—do you not see that?" "Of course Miss Osborne might
have married the equal or the superior to her brother in rank," said Mr. Howard,
"but she has acted far more wisely, in my opinion, in preferring worth and
affection, though not accompanying so splendid an alliance as possibly her
friends have expected for her. Sir William has wealth to satisfy a less
reasonable woman than Lady Gordon, and if his rank is sufficiently elevated to
content her, she can have no more to desire." "Do not imagine, Mr. Howard, from
what I said that I was regretting the difference in rank; on the contrary, I
believe most fully that as she was attached to Sir William, Miss Osborne could
do nothing better than marry him. Far be it from me to wish any one to sacrifice
affection to ambition. Had there been even more difference in their rank, had
the descent been decidedly greater—had he been of really plebeian origin, I
should not have objected when her affections were fixed." "I cannot imagine that
there was any possibility of such an event; Miss Osborne would never have fixed
her affections on an unsuitable object, as any one decidedly beneath her would
have been." "Do you then consider it unsuitable, where love directs, to step out
of one's own sphere to follow its dictates?" "I am decidedly averse to unequal
marriages—even when the husband is the superior, if the inequality is very great
I am inclined to think it does not tend to promote happiness: but when their
positions are reversed, and the man, instead of elevating his wife, drags her
down to a level beneath that where she had previously moved, it can hardly fail
to produce some degree of domestic discomfort." "Alas, I am grieved that your
opinion should be so contrary to my favorite theories; I can imagine nothing
more delightful than for a woman to sacrifice station and rank, to forego an
elevated position, and to lay down her wealth at the feet of some man
distinguished only by his wit and worth; to have the proud happiness of securing
thus his eternal gratitude." "I think a man must be very selfish and self-
confident, who could venture to ask such a sacrifice from any woman. I could
not." "But I am supposing that the sacrifice is voluntary, proposed, planned,
and arranged entirely by herself—women have been capable of this—what should you
say to it?" "I cannot tell what I should say, for I cannot imagine myself in
such a situation. Your ladyship takes pleasure in arranging little romances, but
such circumstances are unlikely to occur in real life." "And why? what do you
suppose is the reason why, in this prosaic world, we are governed only by
titles—empty sounds, not to be compared to the sterling merits of virtue and
learning? Mr. Howard, I prefer a man of sense, learning, and modesty to all the
coxcombs who ever wore a coronet or paraded a title." "Your ladyship is quite
right," replied he, beginning to get a little uncomfortable at the looks of his
companion, and rather anxious to put a stop to the conference. "And if that man
were too modest to be sensible of the preference, if he could not venture, on
his own account, to break through the barriers which difference of station had
placed between us, should he be shocked if, despising etiquette, and throwing
aside the restraints of pride and reserve, I were to venture to express those
feelings in all their native warmth and openness?" He was silent, and Lady
Osborne continued for some moments in profound thought likewise, looking down at
the carpet and playing with her rings: at length she raised her head, and said,

"I think you understand my meaning, Mr. Howard. Of the nature of my feelings I
am sure you must have been long aware. Do you not see to what this conversation
tends?" He appeared excessively embarrassed, and could not, for some minutes,
arrange his ideas sufficiently to know what to say. At length he stammered out—

"Your ladyship does me too much honour, if I rightly understand your meaning—but
perhaps—I should be sorry to misinterpret it—and really you must excuse
me—perhaps I had better withdraw." "No, Mr. Howard, do not go with a half
explanation which can only lead to mistakes. Tell me what you really suppose I
meant; why should you hesitate to express—"

"Seriously," replied he, trying to smile,

"I for a moment imagined that your ladyship meant to apply to me what you had
just been saying, and I feared you were going to tell me of some friend who
would make the sacrifices you so eloquently described. Sacrifices which I felt
would be far beyond my deserts." "And supposing I did say so—supposing there
were a woman of rank and wealth, and influence, who would devote them all to
you—what would you say?" "I would say, that though excessively obliged to her,
my love was not to be the purchase of either wealth or influence." "I know you
are entitled to hold worldly advantages as cheap as any one; but remember, my
dear friend, all the worth of such a sacrifice—think of the warmth of an
affection which could trample on ceremony and brave opinion. And think on the
consequences which might accrue to you from this. Even you may well pause,
before preferring mediocrity to opulence, and obscurity to rank and eminence.
"These advantages would not greatly weigh with me were they attainable—but you
forget my profession forbids ambition, and removes the means of advancement."
—"No, you forget the gradations which exist in that career—do you treat as
nothing the certainty of promotion—of rising to be a dignitary of the church—a
dean—a bishop, perhaps—becoming at once a member of the Upper House? Has
ambition no charms—no hold upon your mind?" "My ambition would never prompt me
to wish to rise through my wife—I could not submit to that." "Hard-hearted,
cruel man!—and has love, ardent love, no charms for you?—it is true I cannot
offer you the first bloom of youth, but have I no traces of former beauty—no
charm which can influence you or soften your heart—has not the uncontrollable
though melancholy love which actuates me—has that no power over your
affections?" She paused, and Mr. Howard hesitated a moment how to answer, then
firmly but respectfully replied,

"If I understand your ladyship aright, and I think I cannot now misunderstand,
you pay me the highest compliment, but one which is quite undeserved by me.
Highly as I feel honoured, however, I cannot change my feelings, or alter the
sentiments which I have already expressed. My mind was made known to you, before
yours was to me, and to vary now from what I then said might well cause you to
doubt my sincerity, and could give no satisfaction to your ladyship." He stopped
abruptly; he wanted to say something indicative of gratitude and respect; but
the disgust which he felt at her proceedings, prevented the words coming
naturally. She, the mother of a married daughter and a grown up son, to be
making proposals to a man so much her junior in age, and in every way unsuited
for her—really, he could not command the expressions which, perhaps, politeness
and a sense of the compliment paid him required. He rose and appeared about to
leave her, but she rose likewise, and said with a look which betrayed
indignation struggling with other feelings:

"No, do not leave me thus—reflect before you thus madly throw away the
advantages I offer you—consider the enmity you provoke—calculate the depth of my
wrath and the extent of my power. Refuse me, and there is no effort to injure
you which I will not practise to revenge myself—you shall bitterly rue this day,
if you affront me thus!" "I cannot vary from my answer; your ladyship may excite
my gratitude by your kindness but neither my love nor my fears are to be raised
by promises or menaces. On this subject I must be, apparently, ungrateful; but
when the temporary delusion which now influences you has passed away, you will,
doubtless, rejoice that I am firm to-day. I must leave you." "Leave me, then;
and let me never see that insidious face again, ungrateful monster; to throw my
benefits from you—to reject my advances. Is my condescension to be thus
rewarded? But I debase myself by talking to you—leave me—begone!—and take only
my enmity with you as your portion." The lady seemed struggling with vehement
emotions, which almost choked her; and knowing she was occasionally attacked
with dangerous fits, Mr. Howard hesitated about leaving her alone. By a gesture
of her hand, however, she repulsed his offer to approach her; he therefore,
slowly withdrew, and his mind was relieved of anxiety for her by seeing her maid
enter the room before he had descended the stairs. He then hurried away, and
tried, by walking very quickly through the most retired paths in Kensington
Gardens, to soothe his feelings and tranquillize his mind. Had there been no
Emma Watson in the world, or had she been, as he feared she would soon be,
married to Lord Osborne, he must still have refused the proposal which had just
been made to him. It never could have presented itself as a temptation to his
mind. But under present circumstances, with a heart full of her memory, all the
more precious, the more dwelt on, because he feared she would never be more to
him, it was more than impossible, it was entirely repulsive. If he must love her
in vain, as he told himself he should, that was no reason he should marry
another; and if she were to become Lady Osborne as he feared, her mother-in-law
would be the last person he would be tempted to accept. Step-father to _her_
husband—oh, impossible! rather would he remove a thousand miles than voluntarily
bring himself into contact with that charming girl in that relationship. If he
could not have her, he would remain single for her and for his sister's sake,
and his nephew should hold the place of son to him. These were his resolutions,
and a further determination to avoid all intercourse at present with the dowager
was the only other idea which could find any resting place in his troubled
brain. He returned the next day to his Vicarage, and there, with his sister, his
garden and his parochial duties, he sought alike to forget the pleasures and the
pains of the past. CHAPTER VI. A month of tranquillity and peace of mind, passed
in the society of Miss Bridge, was sufficient to restore Emma Watson to all her
former health and more than her former beauty. When Lady Gordon wrote to remind
her of the promised visit, she was almost sorry to go. Yet her heart would
flutter a little at the notion of again visiting Osborne Castle—of being again
in the vicinity of Mr. Howard, of seeing, hearing, meeting him again. It was
very foolish to care so much about it—extremely so when he had so completely
shown his own indifference, and yet she could not help feeling a good deal at
the idea of meeting. She called it curiosity to see how he was looking, when she
admitted that thoughts of him had anything to do with it; but more often she
persisted that it was affection for Lady Gordon, or a wish to see her old
neighbourhood, or to visit Osborne Castle in the summer. In short, she found a
hundred surprisingly good reasons why she should wish to go to Osborne Castle,
any one of which would have been sufficient had it only been true, but as they
were mostly imaginary, she never felt quite deceived about them in her own mind.
This was provoking, as she would have liked, had she been able, to convince
herself that she no longer took any interest in Mr. Howard. She had, however, a
right to remember his sister with regard, and she readily owned to herself that
she should be extremely glad to renew her acquaintance with Mrs. Willis. She
hoped to see Margaret again, and judge of the comparative happiness of her
married life. Yet she looked back with regret to the four past weeks and
reckoned them as some of the happiest she had ever known. Elizabeth had spent
part of the time with her, and she had enjoyed herself so very much. The more
she had known of Miss Bridge, the better she had liked her, and the parting was
accompanied with mutual regrets and hopes of meeting again. It was June when she
returned to Osborne Castle—June with its deep blue skies—its sunny days—its
delicious twilight; June with its garlands of roses scenting the air, and its
odoriferous hay-fields. The weather was such as any lover of nature must revel
in—delicious summer weather—fit for strolling in the shade or sitting under
trees, making believe to read, whilst you were really watching the birds
flitting among the bushes, or the bees humming in the flowers—weather for
enjoying life in perfect listlessness and idleness—when scarcely any occupation
could be followed up beyond arranging a _bouquet_ or reading a novel. So thought
and so declared the young bride when her husband pressed her to engage in any
serious pursuit; she enjoyed the pleasure of teasing him by her refusals perhaps
rather more than she ought to have done, but she never teased him very far now;
she knew what he would bear, and ventured not to go beyond it. "I am glad Emma
Watson is coming today," said she, as she threw herself on a seat in the flower-
garden; "you will have something else to look at then besides me, and I shall
quite enjoy the change." "Are you sure of that, Rosa?" said he doubtfully. "Why
you have not the impertinence to suppose that I value your incessant
attentions," said she; "can you not imagine how tired I am of being the sole
object of your love. Emma Watson shall listen to the grave books you so much
love, shall talk of history or painting with you, shall sit as your model, and
leave me in my beloved indolence." "May I enquire if you suppose you are teasing
or pleasing me by this arrangement, Rosa—is it to satisfy me or yourself?" "Oh,
don't ask troublesome questions; I hate investigations as to meanings and
motives—all I want is to be left alone, and not asked to ride or walk when I had
rather lie on a sofa in quiet." "Shall I leave you now then, my dear little
wife?" enquired he smilingly, and offering to go as he spoke. "I have a letter
to write now, and you can stay here in solitude." He returned to the Castle, she
remained musing where he left her, and thus it happened that when Emma was
announced, she found the young baronet alone in their morning sitting-room. He
laid down his pen and advanced to meet her with great cordiality, desiring a
message to be sent to summon his lady. After expressing the pleasure it gave him
to see her again, he observed:

"Who would have thought, Miss Watson, when we last met, that I should be
receiving you in this castle; did you prognosticate such an event?" "Not
precisely," replied Emma, "so far as concerned myself; but as relating to Miss
Osborne—I mean Lady Gordon—any one must have foreseen it." "I assure you, when
such things are foreseen, Miss Watson, it most frequently happens that they
never come to pass. I have repeatedly seen instances of this kind." He spoke
with an arch smile, and a faint idea passed through her mind that she was in his
thoughts at the moment; an idea which might, perhaps, have embarrassed her more
had it not been swallowed up—annihilated entirely by a more powerful sensation,
as the door opened and Lady Gordon entered with Mr. Howard. It was fortunate
that the enquiries of the former—her expressions of pleasure, and her caresses,
were an excuse for Emma's not immediately turning to the gentleman—had they been
obliged to speak at once, it is probable their dialogue would have been
peculiar—interesting but unconnected—as the man said of Johnson's dictionary. As
it was, they both had time to collect their thoughts—and when they did turn,
were able to go through their interview with tolerable calmness; but Emma had
the advantage—as ladies frequently have where circumstances require a ready tact
and presence of mind. Indeed, they did not start on fair ground—since she had
only one set of sensations to contend with and conceal—he had more—for, besides
the emotion which the sight of her occasioned him, he had the double evil of
being convinced it was contrary to the requisitions of honour, to feel any
extraordinary pleasure in her company. Had not Lord Osborne made him his
confidant relative to his attachment, or had Howard boldly owned to his lordship
at the time, that he entertained similar views, all would have been right, and
he might openly have expressed the interest which he now was compelled carefully
to smother. His address was cold and formal—the very contrast to his
feelings—and extremely ill done likewise; Emma, chilled by the reception so
different to what she had ventured to expect, began to fear her own manners had
been too openly indicative of pleasure at the sight of him; and determined to
correct this error she almost immediately followed Lady Gordon, who had
sauntered towards the conservatory. "Come here," said the young hostess, linking
her arm in Emma's, "let us leave the gentlemen to discuss the parish politics
together. Mr. Howard came on business, and Sir William dearly loves meddling
with it. Now, you must tell me all the news of Croydon. Have you no scandal to
enliven me?—with whom has the lawyer quarrelled? or to whom has the apothecary
been making love." Emma colored and laughed a little. Lady Gordon smilingly
watched her. "To you, I suppose, by your blushes, Miss Watson; well, that gives
me a higher idea of _his_ taste, than I have been accustomed to form of country-
town doctors. How many lovers have you to boast of? Beginning with Lord Osborne,
and ending with this nameless son of Esculapius?—tell me all. "Indeed, I have no
such honors to boast," replied Emma, "no one has sought me, and probably no one
ever will:" this was followed by a little sigh. "Nay, do not be so desponding—a
little chill is nothing," cried Lady Gordon, "but I am not going to pry into
your secrets. This conservatory has given us enough of trouble in that way
already. By the way, you will, of course, like to go over and call on your
sister, Mrs. Musgrove—when will it suit you?" "To-morrow, if you please,"
replied Emma, gratefully; Lady Gordon promised that the means of conveyance
should be at her service, and they proceeded to discuss other topics. She
insisted on detaining Mr. Howard to spend the afternoon and to dine with
them—pleading, as a reason, the absence of his sister, who was away on a visit;
and when this point was carried and settled, she led them out into the flower
garden again, and loitered away the rest of the intervening time, amidst the
perfume of summer flowers, and the flickering lights and shadows of the alcoves,
and their gay creeping plants. It was the day and place for love making; who
could resist the fascinating influence of sweet scents, sunshine, murmuring
fountains and soft summer airs? Not Mr. Howard, certainly! Gradually his frozen
manner melted away—his purposes of reserve were forgotten, and he became once
more the Mr. Howard of Emma's first acquaintance, pleasant and gay—sensible and
agreeable. Lady Gordon left them several times together, whilst she occupied
herself with her flowers or her tame pheasants; and each successive time of her
absence, there was less check and constraint in his manner; and when, at last,
she totally disappeared, and they were left without other witnesses in that
delightful spot, than the silent trees, or the trickling waters, his reserve had
disappeared altogether, and she could converse with him as in former times.
"Have you enjoyed your visit at Croydon, Miss Watson," enquired he, presently.
She looked surprised at the question. "Enjoyed it," she repeated—then, after a
momentary hesitation added, "I wonder you can apply such a term to circumstances
connected with so much that is—that must be most painful." He was exceedingly
vexed with himself for the question, and attempted to make some excuse for the
inadvertence. "It is unnecessary." she replied, with a something almost of
bitterness in her tone, "I had no right to expect that the memory of our
misfortune would remain, when we ourselves were removed from sight. _I_ ought
rather to apologise for answering your question so uncivilly." "No, no, indeed,"
cried he eagerly, "I cannot admit that—but indeed, Miss Watson, you do me
injustice, and the same to all your former friends in that last speech. We
cannot cease to regret the misfortune—the Providential dispensation, which in
removing your excellent father from among us, robbed us likewise of you and your
sisters." "My dear father," said Emma involuntarily, her eyes filling with
tears—she turned away her head. "It was of course a terrible wound to you," said
he softly, and stepping up quite close to her, "but not one which you need
despair of time's healing; _your_ good sense, _your_ principles must assist you
to view the occurrence in its true light. It must not sadden your whole life, or
rob you of all pleasure." "True—but there are other sorrows connected with it—"
she stopped abruptly, then went on again, "however I have no right to complain.
I have still _some_ friends left—my loss of fortune has not entailed the loss of
_all_ those whom I reckoned amongst my friends; though an event of that kind is
a good touch-stone for new and untried friendships." "Can you imagine," cried he
eagerly, "that such a circumstance can make the shadow of a difference to any
one worth knowing. It is, I own, too, too common—but surely _you_ have not met
with such instances." She shook her head and looked half reproachfully at him:
in her own heart, she had felt inclined to charge him with this feeling. "I
should have thought," continued he warmly, "you would have said—at least you
would have found it like the words of the old song, that—

"Friends in all the old you meet,           And brothers in the young." "I
believe it is not usual," replied she trying to speak playfully, "to attach much
value to an old song—we may consider that as a poetical fiction." He looked very
earnestly at her and said:

"You fancy friends have deserted you, owing to a change in your prospects—do
not—allow me to advise you—do not give way to such feelings—they will not make
you happy." "They do not make me _un_happy, I assure you," said she with spirit;
"the value I place on such fluctuating friendships is low indeed." "In one
single instance, perhaps, it may be so—but you had better not dwell on such
ideas; they will create eventually a habit of mind which must tend to produce
secret irritation and uneasiness. The allowing yourself to think it—much more
expressing that thought _can_ do you no good, and each repetition deepens the
impression!" He spoke so gently, with such a low, earnest tone, she could not
resist or for a moment longer indulge her half-formed suspicions relative to him
and his sister. Whether he had guessed her feelings she could not tell; his eyes
were fixed on her with too much of interest to allow her to attempt reading the
whole of their meaning. She never liked him so well as when thus, and with
justice, reproving her. "I dare say you are right," said she meekly, "I will try
to repress such feelings—indeed I am ashamed I ever gave them utterance—and here
too, where I have been so very kindly welcomed!" "And I am to imagine then,"
continued he, "that Croydon offers few attractions to you—a country town is not
usually agreeable except to those who love gossip, of which I do not suspect
you; but you must have found some compensations." "It was a great pleasure to
look forward to Elizabeth being so comfortably settled," replied Emma, "I like
my future brother very much, and am pleased with his family. I have no doubt of
_her_ happiness—and the style of life will not be irksome to her—but I love the
country, and country pursuits, and was right glad to exchange the noisy streets
of Croydon for the delightful groves of Burton—its meadows and green-lanes."
"You have not then been the whole time at Croydon?" She explained—he had
certainly been in a state of complete darkness as to her movements lately; and
she really felt a momentary mortification that he should have been contented to
remain in such profound ignorance. Yet she also rejoiced that he had never heard
anything relative to the course of events which had occasioned her so much pain
at Croydon, and driven her from the place. He knew nothing of Mr. Morgan. How
much longer they would have been content to loiter in that pleasant flower-
garden cannot now be known, but they were only induced to leave it by the sound
of the gong, which summoned them to the Castle to prepare for dinner. The hour
which they had thus enjoyed had been one of the pleasantest to Emma which she
could recollect, and the witchery of it to Howard himself would have been quite
unrivalled, had his conscience been easy on reflection, with regard to Lord
Osborne's plans and hopes. He tormented himself with the idea that it was unjust
to his friend to take advantage of his absence; yet a flattering hope dwelt in
his heart, that _she_ had shown no reluctance to the interview; nay, if his
wishes did not deceive and mislead him, there was a glance in her averted eye,
and a rich mantling of colour over her cheek once or twice, which spoke anything
but aversion. And if so—if he really had been so fortunate as to inspire her
with a partiality so delightful, was he not privileged—more than
privileged—bound in honour to her to prove himself deserving of such feelings,
and capable of appreciating them. This conviction gave him a degree of
confidence and animation quite different from the manners he had exhibited when
they had previously met at Osborne Castle, and Emma found him as pleasant as in
the earlier stage of their acquaintance. "Are you still partial to early walks,
Miss Watson," enquired Sir William in the course of the evening, "or is it only
in frosty winter mornings that you indulge in such a recreation." "Ah, I had a
very pleasant ramble that morning," said Emma, "at least till the rain came and
spoilt it all." "A very mortifying way of concluding," said Sir William,
laughing, "for I came with the rain. I wish you had not put in that
reservation." "I am not so ungrateful as to include you and the rain in the same
condemnation," replied she, "you were of great assistance in my distresses."
"But if you wish to indulge in the same amusement now, you will have abundance
of time, as Lady Gordon is by no means so precipitate in her habits of rising
and performing her morning toilette, as to compel her guests to abridge their
walks before breakfast. Perhaps as a compliment to you, and by making very great
speed she may contrive to complete her labours in that way by ten or eleven
o'clock." "Well, I do not pretend to deny it," said Lady Gordon, "I am
excessively indolent, and dearly love the pleasure of doing nothing. But Sir
William is always anxious to make me out much worse than I am." "But you have
not answered my question as to your intentions for to-morrow, Miss Watson, and I
have a great wish to know whether you are proposing an excursion; because I
think it would be much more agreeable if we can contrive to walk together, and
if I know at what time you intend to start, I will take care to be in the way."
"Is he serious, Lady Gordon?" enquired Emma. "It is a most uncommon event if he
is so, I assure you," replied the young wife, "and, indeed, I would not take
upon myself to assert such a thing of him at any time—"

"Do not believe all the scandal my lady there will say of me," returned Sir
William, "but just say at once that you will walk to-morrow morning, and that
you will be particularly happy if I and Mr. Howard will join you." Emma blushed
deeply, and hardly knew what to answer, but Lady Gordon saved her the trouble of
replying, by exclaiming at the presumption and self-conceit of her husband,
declaring that he had completely reversed the proper order of things, and that
he deserved a decided negative from Emma, for having expected her to profess
such extraordinary satisfaction at his company. Emma made believe to consider
the proposal entirely as a joke, but somehow, without knowing exactly how, it
was settled that the proposed excursion should take place, and that Mr. Howard
was to meet them at a particular spot, from whence they were to ascend the hill
behind the Castle to enjoy the prospect bathed in a morning's sunshine. Lady
Gordon privately gave her husband many injunctions not to interfere with the
lovers, and whilst keeping near enough to take away all appearance of
impropriety, to be sure and give them plenty of time for quiet intercourse. In
return for her consideration, he only laughed at her, and accused her of a great
inclination to intrigue, assuring her she had much better leave such affairs to
take their chance. The walk, however, took place as was planned, and was
exceedingly enjoyed by all three, though Mr. Howard did not take that occasion
of declaring his passion: indeed he would have had some difficulty in finding an
opportunity, as Sir William did not follow Lady Gordon's suggestions of leaving
them together. Mindful of her promise, Lady Gordon sent her guest over the next
morning to pay her first visit to Mrs. Tom Musgrove. It was with rather a
feeling of doubt and hesitation that Emma ventured to her sister's house;
anxious as she was to see her and judge for herself, and curious to observe the
manners which Tom Musgrove adopted as a married man, she could not help some
internal misgivings as to the result of her investigations. She had never seen
the house before, and though she had been previously warned of the fact that it
had no beauty to recommend it, she was not exactly prepared for the bare,
unsheltered situation, and the extreme unsightliness of the building itself. Tom
had always spent too much money on his horses and their habitation, to have any
to spare for beautifying his house during the days of his bachelorship and he
was far too angry at the constraint put upon him in his marriage, to feel any
inclination to exert himself for the reception of his bride. She had therefore
no additions for her accommodation, no gay flower-garden, not even any new
furniture to boast of, and her glory must consist alone in the fact of her new
name, and her security from living and dying an old maid. Most people would have
thought that security dearly purchased, but if such were Margaret's thoughts,
she had not as yet given utterance to them. Emma found her lying on a sofa, and
in spite of her very gay dress, and an extremely becoming cap, evidently out of
spirits and cross, yet wanting to excite her sister's envy of her situation.
"Well, Emma," said she, sharply, "I am glad you have come over to see me, though
I must say I think your friend, Lady Gordon, since she is such a great friend of
yours, might have paid me the compliment of calling with you." "She thought it
would be pleasanter if we met first without her," said Emma, cheerfully, "but
she desired me to express the pleasure it would give her to see you and Mr.
Musgrove at Osborne Castle any day you would name!" Somewhat mollified by this
unexpected attention, Margaret smiled slightly, then again relapsing into her
usual pettish air, she observed,

"I think you might say something about the house and drawing-room—what do you
think of it?" Emma was exceedingly puzzled what to answer, as it was difficult
for her to combine sincerity with anything agreeable; but after looking round
for a minute she was able to observe that the room was of a pretty shape, and
had a pleasant aspect. "It wants new furnishing sadly," continued Margaret,
pleased with her sister's praise; "but Tom is so stingy of money, I am sure I do
not know when I am to do it. Would not pale blue damask satin curtains look
lovely here—with a gold fringe or something of the sort?" "Rather expensive, I
should suppose," replied Emma; "and perhaps something plainer would be more in
character with the rest of the house and furniture." "I don't see that at all,"
retorted Margaret; "do you suppose I do not know how to furnish a house—of
course I should have everything to correspond. I have a little common sense, I
believe, whatever some people may choose to think of it. At home indeed I was
always considered as nothing, but as a married woman I am of some importance, I
believe!" "It was not your taste that I doubted," replied Emma, and then
stopped, afraid lest she should only make bad worse by anything she might
venture to say. "I should like to know what you _did_ doubt then," said Margaret
scornfully. "Perhaps you thought we could not afford it; but there I assure you
you are quite mistaken—Tom's is a very ample income, and he can as well afford
me luxuries as Sir William Gordon himself." "I am very glad to hear it," replied
Emma composedly. Margaret thought a little, and then enquired how Elizabeth was
going on. Emma's account was very satisfactory, or at least would have been so
to any one really concerned in Miss Watson's welfare; but Margaret would
probably have felt better pleased had there been some drawback or disadvantage
to relate concerning her; being not altogether so well satisfied with her own
lot, as to make her quite equal to bearing the prosperity of her sister. "And so
she is really going to marry that man, in spite of his brewery; well, I wish she
had more pride—proper pride; I must say I think a clergyman's daughter might
have looked higher—and she should consider _my_ feelings a little. I should have
been ashamed to marry any one not a gentleman by birth and situation!" "We have
not all the same feelings," replied Emma willing to propitiate; "and I do not
wonder at her liking Mr. Millar, he is so excellent a man." "You think so, I
dare say," said Margaret scornfully; "but a girl like you has seen far too
little of the world to be any judge of what men are or ought to be. There is
nothing so deceptive as their manners in company—_I_, who must be allowed to
have more power of judging, and indeed in every respect to be your superior,
never saw anything remarkable in Mr. Millar: a certain coarseness and
grossness—a something which irresistibly reminded one of a cask of double X, was
much his most distinguishing characteristic." "I never observed it, and indeed
Margaret I think you do him injustice," said Emma with spirit; "I am sure he has
nothing coarse about him, either in mind or person." "I think it is very
unbecoming in you to set up your opinion in opposition to me. I have had far
more experience, and my position as a matron places me in a much more competent
situation for judging of men and manners." Emma did not again attempt to
contradict her, and Margaret, pleased with her supposed victory, enquired with
some good nature and more vanity, if her sister would like to see her jewel-box.
Emma, aware that she wished to exhibit it, good-naturedly expressed pleasure at
the proposal, and was in consequence immediately desired to ring the bell to
summon her maid to fetch it. With much self-complacency, and a considerable wish
to make her sister envious, all the new trinkets were exhibited by the happy
possessor, and amongst many which owed all their value to being perfectly modern
and just in fashion, were some few ornaments which would have been valued
anywhere for their intrinsic worth, although antique in their setting, and
differing decidedly from the style of ornament then in vogue. "Those belonged to
Tom's mother," observed Margaret, rather contemptuously pushing aside the
trinkets in question; "I believe the stones are rather good, and if they were
only new set, I should like them very well, but they are monstrous old things
now, set as they have been." Before Emma had time to reply or to express any
opinion at all on the subject of the trinkets, the door was violently thrown
open, and with a sound which indicated that he was luxuriating in very easy
slippers, Tom Musgrove entered the room. "I say Margery, girl," he began in a
loud voice, but stopped on seeing his sister-in-law. "Hey, Emma Watson! why I
did not know you were here! By Jove! I am glad to see you." He advanced towards
her, and not satisfied with taking the hand which she extended to him, he
saluted her on the cheek with considerable warmth, and detaining her hand, he
stared her in the face with a look of admiration which was quite offensive to
her. "Upon my word, Emma, you are looking more lovely than ever, blooming and
fresh. I need not ask _how_ you are—those bright eyes and roses speak volumes. I
am glad to see you, indeed I am." "Thank you," said Emma, turning away her head
and struggling to release the hand which he retained with a most decided grasp;
"I am glad to see you and Margaret looking so well." "Oh! Margery there—yes, I
dare say, she is well enough—but, as for me, I am sure it must be something
miraculous, if I am any thing remarkable in that way"—he glanced at his wife and
shrugged his shoulders with an air that excited disgust, not pity, in Emma. "And
so you are come to enliven us, Emma,—that's monstrous good of you, 'pon my
honor. I hope you are going to stay here some time." "You are very kind,"
replied she, "but I am staying with Lady Gordon, and only came over here for a
short visit to Margaret." "So there, you see," cried Mrs. Musgrove, "_my_
relations are as much noticed at the castle as you are; so you need not plume
yourself so much on that head, Tom!" "I do not wonder that Sir William likes to
have a pretty girl to stay with him," replied Tom, again staring at Emma, who
coloured highly with indignation at his impertinence. "Ah! ha! how you blush,"
added he, coming close to her and attempting to pinch her cheek, which she,
however, avoided. "Why, how monstrous coy you are," exclaimed he, "what! are you
afraid of me?—fie, fie—you are my sister, and should have no naughty ideas in
your head." "I will trouble you, Tom, to leave my sister alone; I do not approve
of your taking personal liberties with her; be so good as to treat her with the
respect which is due to a relative of mine," exclaimed Margaret, half rising
from her sofa to speak with greater energy. "Ha! ha! so you are jealous
Margery," said Tom, throwing himself on a seat beside Emma, and rolling about
with laughter, "that's a good joke 'pon my soul—a capital joke, indeed—to be
sure, considering all things—it's natural enough; but really, I cannot help
laughing at it—indeed, I cannot, though I beg your pardon, Emma, for doing so."
Emma looked most immoveably grave, and would not give him the smallest
encouragement in his hilarity, whilst Margaret muttered quite audibly:

"What a fool you do make of yourself, to be sure." "So you are exhibiting your
necklace box again," observed he, sarcastically, as he caught a glimpse of the
case beside her. "Upon my honor, I do not believe there is another woman so vain
of her trinkets between this and Berwick—you are always shewing them to every
body." "Well, and what if I am? I suppose I may if I like—it does nobody any
harm that ever I heard of," retorted Margaret, quite angry. "I see no more
wonder in a woman's shewing her jewels, than in a man exhibiting his horses,
dogs, and guns. I have known instances of that peculiarity in some of my
acquaintances, quite as well deserving of ridicule, as my sister's wishing to
see my ornaments could be." "I dare say, the horses and the dogs were much
better worth looking at than your trumpery;" replied he, "why, the only things
in your assortment worth any thing, are the topaz set which belonged to my
mother; all the rest is mere rubbish." "What those frightful old things! upon my
honor, Tom, I am ashamed of wearing such monstrous, heavy, old-fashioned
articles—but having once belonged to your mother, of course they must be
wonderfully precious." Emma here interposed to deliver Lady Gordon's message,
and to request them to name a day for accepting it. A debate ensued as to the
most convenient day on which to fix, which presently branched off into a violent
dispute as to whether the invitation in question was intended as a compliment to
Tom or his wife; each maintaining the opinion, that the honour of the invitation
was all due to themselves. At length, however, Emma contrived to persuade them
to settle the point in question; and two days from that time, was fixed on for
the dinner visit, and soon after this point was arranged, Emma took her leave.
Much as she was grieved by what she had witnessed, she could not be surprised at
it, when she considered the circumstances under which the union had been formed.
Tom was reckless and unkind; Margaret peevish and fretful, without energy of
character to make the best of her situation, or strength of mind to bear with
patience the evils in which she had involved herself. No doubt, if Tom had loved
her, she would have been fond of him, and any sensation beyond her own selfish
feelings, would have done her good; but forced into the marriage against his
will, love, or any thing resembling it, was not to be expected from him; in
consequence, her own partiality could not survive his indifference; and there
was a mutual spirit of ill-will cultivated between them, which boded ill for
their future peace. Emma reflected on all this as she drove home, from her very
unsatisfactory visit, and was only roused from these unpleasant considerations,
by finding the carriage stopped suddenly soon after entering the park. On
looking up, she perceived Sir William and Lady Gordon, who enquired if she would
like a stroll before dinner, instead of returning at once to the castle. She
assented with pleasure, and quitting the carriage, they took a pleasant path
through a plantation, the thick shade of which made walking agreeable even in
the afternoon of a June day. "Suppose we go and invade Mr. Howard," said Lady
Gordon, "this path leads down to the vicarage—let us see what sort of a
housekeeper he makes, without his sister to manage for him!" "Always running
after Mr. Howard, Rosa," said Sir William. "Upon my word, I shall be jealous
soon: yesterday flirting in the flower-garden—to-day visiting at the vicarage;
if things go on in this way, I will take you away from Osborne Castle very
soon." "Yes, _you_ have reason to be jealous, have you not? when men leave off
pleasing their wives themselves, they always dislike that any one else should do
it for them"—replied Lady Gordon smiling saucily. "You know you are always
thwarting me yourself, and naturally wish to keep me from more agreeable
society, lest I should draw disadvantageous comparisons." "But the comparisons
are not fairly drawn under such circumstances," suggested Emma, "for Mr.
Howard's way of treating Lady Gordon can be no rule for his probable way of
tyrannising over some future Mrs. Howard." "Of course not," replied Sir William,
"but I observe, Miss Watson, you take it for granted that he _will_ tyrannise
over a wife when he has one; is that your opinion of men in general, or only of
Mr. Howard in particular?" "Of men in general, no doubt," interposed Lady
Gordon: "Miss Watson has lived too long in the world not already to have
discovered the obvious truth, that all men are tyrants when they have the
opportunity, the only difference being, that some are hypocrites likewise, and
conceal their disposition until their victim is in their power, whilst others,
like yourself William, make no secret of it at all." "I am glad you acquit me of
hypocrisy at least, Rosa; it has always been my wish to be distinguished for
sincerity and openness, I never indulged in intrigues or meddled in manœuvres,
or sought for stratagems to carry out my wishes." He accompanied this speech
with a peculiar smile which made his lady colour slightly, as she well knew to
what he alluded; she did not reply, and they walked on some time in silence. At
length Emma observed that it was a remarkably pretty walk which they were
pursuing. Lady Gordon told her that they were indebted for the idea and plan of
it to Mr. Howard; he had superintended the execution of some other improvements
which Lady Osborne had effected, but this one had originated entirely with him.
It was the pleasantest road from the vicarage to the village, and was so well
made and drained as to be almost always dry although so much sheltered. The idea
that he had planned it, did not at all diminish the interest with which Emma
regarded the road they were discussing; and her eyes sought the glimpses of
distant landscape seen between the trees, with pleasure materially heightened by
the recollection that it was to his taste she was indebted for the
gratification. This sort of secret satisfaction was brought suddenly to a close,
by finding herself quite unexpectedly at a little wicket gate opening upon his
garden. She had not been aware the house was so near; but the nature, not the
source of her pleasure, was changed; it still was connected with him, and the
beauty of his garden quite enchanted her. When she had previously seen it in the
winter, she had felt certain it must be charming, but now it proved to surpass
every expectation she had formed; and she was internally convinced that a love
of gardening, and a taste for the beauties of nature, were sure signs of an
amiable and domestic disposition in a man, which promised fair for the happiness
of those connected with him. They found him hard at work constructing some new
trellis work for the luxuriant creepers which adorned his entrance; his coat
off, and his arms partly bare for the greater convenience of his labours. "We
have taken you by storm, to-day," said Lady Gordon, smilingly holding out her
hand to him, "I like to see your zeal for your house." "Really," said he,
holding up his hand, "these fingers of mine are not at all fit to touch a lady's
glove; when we assume the occupation of carpenters, we ought to expect to be
treated accordingly." "And when we intrude on you at such irregular hours, we
ought to be thankful for any welcome we can get," replied Lady Gordon. "Indeed,
I take it most kind and friendly of you to come," answered he, his eyes directed
with unequivocal satisfaction towards Emma. "My garden is better worth seeing
_now_, than when you were last here," added he, approaching her. "It is lovely,"
replied Emma, honestly speaking her mind, "what beautiful roses. I do not think
I ever saw such a display of blossoms." "I am glad _you_ admire it," said he, in
a low voice, "though, after the conservatories and flower gardens of the castle,
I am afraid it must look rather poor." "I would not make unjust comparisons,"
replied Emma, "but I think you need not dread it if I were inclined to do so. It
is not grandeur or extent which always carries the greatest charm." "And would
you apply that sentiment to _more_ than a garden?" asked he, very earnestly,
fixing on her eyes which unmistakeably declared his anxiety to hear her answer.
He was not, however, destined to be so speedily gratified as he had hoped; for,
quite unconscious that he was interrupting any peculiarly interesting
conversation, Sir William turned round to enquire the name of some new shrub
that struck his eye at the moment. Recollecting himself after replying to the
baronet's question, he invited them to enter the house to rest; but this Lady
Gordon declined, declaring that she preferred a swelling bank of turf, under a
tree, to any sofa that ever was constructed. The ladies therefore sat down here,
and begging to be excused for one minute, Mr. Howard disappeared, going, as Sir
William guessed, to wash his hands and put on a coat, that he might look smart
and fit for company. Lady Gordon laughed at the idea of a clergyman making
himself smart, or of Mr. Howard treating her as company; but Sir William was
proved to be partly right, since it was evident on his return that he had been
employing part of his absence in the way that had been suggested; but to dress
himself had not been his sole object, for he re-appeared with a basket of
magnificent strawberries in his hand, which on a warm afternoon in summer had a
peculiarly inviting appearance. Lady Gordon accepted them eagerly, declaring
that she knew his strawberries were always far better than any the Castle
gardens ever produced. As to Emma, she was certain she never tasted any so
excellent in her life, nor was she ever before pressed to eat with so winning a
smile or so persuasive a tone of voice. "I wonder you take so much pains to
beautify this place, when you are almost certain of being soon removed from it,"
said Lady Gordon. "The occupation is in itself a pleasure," replied he, "which
more than repays me for the exertion, and after your brother's liberality in
making the house and garden as comfortable as possible, it would be very bad if
I could not do my share in keeping it so, even if I am not to remain as
possessor; but I by no means anticipate a change with the certainty which you
seem to do." "I have no doubt in the least that the moment Carsdeane is vacant,
my brother will offer you the living, and as the rector is very old and infirm
it seems hardly possible that it can be long first." Mr. Howard was silent for a
few minutes, and when he spoke, it was on another subject; but not with the
gaiety with which he had before conversed; in fact, he was secretly meditating
on the extreme desirableness of quitting his present vicarage, if ever Lady
Osborne came to reside again in the neighbourhood. Nothing could be much more
unpleasant than a meeting between them, and he longed to learn from her daughter
whether there was any chance of such a catastrophe; but as yet he had not found
courage to enquire, fearing her penetration might have led her to guess the past
events, or her mother's indiscretion might have made her acquainted with them.
"Mr. Howard," said Lady Gordon soon afterwards, "you are under an engagement to
Miss Watson, to give her another lecture on the paintings in the Castle
gallery." "I remember hoping for that pleasure," said he; "but I could hardly
have flattered myself that Miss Watson would remember it for such a length of
time." "Indeed I do though," replied Emma; "I have a very good memory for
promises which are likely to afford me pleasure, and if I did not fear
encroaching too much on your time and patience, should certainly claim that
one." "And I assure you I have no wish to shrink from my promise; but any time
you will name I will be at your service," said he with a look of lively
pleasure, "excepting to-morrow, when I am particularly engaged." "There is no
desperate hurry, I dare say," interposed Sir William; "you can postpone your
engagement without material inconvenience, I should think, for a day or two,
after waiting nearly six months." "Oh yes, Miss Watson is come to pay us a long
visit," added Lady Gordon; "so you may easily settle on the day and hour at some
future meeting." "Any time will do for me," said Emma quietly. "And are you
really going out for the whole day to-morrow?" enquired Lady Gordon. He
assented. "Then we will come down and rifle his strawberry-beds—shall we not
Miss Watson?" continued she. "I protest that will be most unfair," exclaimed he;
"since I give you willingly all I have, and only request, in return, the
pleasure of your society." "That is so pretty a speech I can do no less than say
in reply, that we shall be most happy whenever Mr. Howard will indulge us with
the honour of his company: come whenever you can—the day after to-morrow Mr. and
Mrs. Musgrove dine with us, will you meet them?" He accepted with pleasure,
though perhaps he would have preferred their absence to their company. After
loitering away a couple of hours on his lawn, Lady Gordon rose to take her
leave, and even then she pressed him so earnestly to accompany them up the hill,
to assist Miss Watson, who she was certain was fatigued by her long walk, that
he could not have refused had it been an unpleasant task she was imposing on
him, instead of the thing which he liked best in the world, and was really
wishing to do. The encouragement which he received from Lady Osborne herself was
so obvious, that had his suit depended only on her, he would have felt neither
fear nor hesitation as to the result; but as the wishes and tastes of another
person were to be consulted, and there seemed far more doubt as to the direction
which those took, he still debated whether or not he should venture to put his
influence to the proof, and rest all his hopes on a single effort. He
accompanied them home, but Emma denied that she was tired, and would not accept
the assistance of his arm, because she misinterpreted the hesitation with which
it was offered, fancying it was done unwillingly, and solely in compliance with
her friend's directions. This discouraged him; he did not recover from the
disappointment, and in consequence would not enter the Castle, but persisted in
returning to spend a solitary evening at the vicarage. There Emma's smile and
Emma's voice perpetually recurred to his fancy, and he occupied himself, whilst
finishing the work which they had interrupted, in recalling every word which she
had said, and the exact look which had accompanied each speech. CHAPTER VII. The
next morning at breakfast, one letter amongst many which Lady Gordon received,
appeared to excite considerable surprise, and some other sensation nearly allied
to discontent. She read it over, and then threw it down before her husband, with
an exclamation:

"Only see there!" "Why, what is it that clouds your brow so, Rosa?" replied he,
looking at the letter without touching it, or interrupting himself in the
process of dissecting a cold fowl. "Just look at that letter;" said she, "have
you no curiosity?" she added, seeing he did not take it up. "Oh yes, a great
deal of curiosity—but no time to spare, and I know that if I wait a little, you
will tell me all without the trouble of looking at it." "Provoking man," said
Lady Gordon, "I declare I will not tell you a word, as a punishment for such
incorrigible laziness and impertinence." "I see by the address it is from your
brother, my love," replied the husband, glancing again at the letter, "what does
he say to provoke you, and put you so out of temper?" "I will not tell you a
word. I assure you." "Is he going to be married?" "Look in the letter and you
will have no occasion to ask me." "Miss Watson, suppose you were to take it, and
oblige me by reading it out; you have done your breakfast, and I am still busy
with mine." "No, indeed, I quite agree with Lady Gordon in thinking it very
indolent not to read it for yourself, and shall certainly not countenance it at
all." "I see you are in a conspiracy against me, and that is very unfair when
there are two ladies to one man," replied he laughing. "I am just going to make
you even as to numbers at least," returned Emma, "for I am about to leave the
room." She did so, and Sir William immediately taking up the letter, read it
through quietly and returned it to his wife. "Well," said she, "what do you
think of that?" "First, that it is rather extraordinary your brother's proposal
of a visit should cause you such annoyance; and secondly, that you should think
it necessary to make this visit a secret." "You are always more struck with my
feelings than anything else: I believe if the Castle were to tumble on us, you
would be only occupied in observing how I bore it." "That is only because you
are the most interesting object in the world to me: surely you would not quarrel
with me for that, Rosa?" She looked evidently gratified, yet still pretended to
pout a little, then enquired:

"But why would you not look at the letter when I asked you?" "Because _I_ always
feel myself _de trop_ when _I_ form the third, where the other two have letters
for mutual inspection: if you wish me to read your letters, and do not choose to
make Miss Watson acquainted with their contents, pray wait another time till she
is out of the room. You see you have driven her away now." "I certainly wished
to talk to you about this, I am so annoyed at Osborne's coming now!" "And I
cannot imagine why!" "Because I believe it to be only for the sake of Emma
Watson, that he has so suddenly resolved to come down here." "And you I suppose,
Rosa, wish it to be for your own sake instead?" "Nonsense; how can you suppose
anything of the sort?" "Then what am I to understand is the cause of your
discontent, Rosa?" enquired her husband, looking rather surprised. "I do not
wish him to care for Emma in that sort of way at all. She is a very nice girl,
and I should like to have her for a friend always, but I do not desire her for a
sister; she is not Osborne's equal, and I should regret the connection." "So
should I, I confess, not for your brother's sake, but hers. He could hardly do a
better thing for himself; she is his superior in everything but worldly
position, and were there the least chance of his persuading her to accept him, I
should think him a very lucky fellow. But I do not think there is; and therefore
you need not be alarmed for him, nor I for her." "And why should you be
concerned for her at such a prospect—it would be a very good marriage for her,"
said Lady Gordon. "I do not think unequal connexions desirable at all—and were
she _your_ brother's wife, she would be too far removed from the man who is to
be her eldest sister's husband. If I understand rightly, the other is to marry a
wealthy brewer at Croydon—a very good match for her, but not a desirable
connection for Osborne; Emma would either grow ashamed of her own family and
their station, or she would be pained by being obliged to neglect them in some
degree. But she will never accept Osborne!" "I cannot wish the temptation thrown
in her way—I should be by no means sure of the result," said Lady Gordon. "You
cannot prevent it however," replied Sir William, "if Osborne has any such
thoughts in his head—he is his own master, and cannot be kept away from her. The
mischief is of your own doing too—for you had her here in the winter—and, if I
recollect rightly, encouraged the acquaintance." "That was entirely for Mr.
Howard's sake," said she, "It never occurred to me that Osborne would notice
her." "I cannot see why you should have intermeddled between them at all," was
his reply. "Mr. Howard would have gone on very well alone." Lady Gordon did not
choose to mention her principal motive, so she only replied—

"Well, it is too late for such reflections now to be of any use, so tell me what
I had better do, and I will try and obey you." "Do nothing at all then, love;
depend upon it, any opposition will only make your brother more decidedly bent
on his own way, which you have no means of preventing him from following. Let
him come, and trust to the evident partiality of your friend, Howard, as the
safeguard of your brother." Lady Gordon had speedily the opportunity of
exercising the forbearance which her husband advised; as, punctual to his
promise, her brother arrived that afternoon. The two young ladies were sitting
together when he walked into the room; and she bore, with as much composure as
she could, the evident warmth and eagerness with which he paid his compliments
to Emma. He seated himself by her side, and after looking intently at her for a
minute in the way for which he had been formerly remarkable, exclaimed with
great energy:

"Upon my honour, Miss Watson, for all it's so very long since we met, you are
looking uncommonly well and blooming!" Emma felt excessively tempted to ask him
whether he had expected she would have pined at his absence, or grown old in the
last six months. She did not, however, because she thought he would not
understand her, as he had never appeared at all ready to comprehend a jest.
"Croydon must have agreed famously with you," he continued, "I was there once,
and had a great inclination to ride over and pay you a visit at Burton; but not
knowing the people you were with I felt awkward, and did not like to do it; it
is such a horrid thing going entirely amongst strangers." "I am much honoured by
your lordship thinking of me at all; but I should say you were quite right in
not coming there; we should have been overpowered by the sudden apparition of a
man of your rank." "I dare say _you_ created a great sensation in Croydon, did
you not?" "Not that I am aware of, my lord; I never wished to be conspicuous,
and I trust, I did not do any thing whilst there, to excite observation amongst
my acquaintance." "You must have done one thing, which you could not help, at
any time," replied he, in a very low voice, as if ashamed of himself. "You must
have looked pretty; they must all have noticed that." Emma met Lady Gordon's
eyes fixed on her at this moment with an expression which it was impossible to
misunderstand; it spoke so plainly of anxiety and mistrust. It did no good,
however, for it only made her uncomfortable, and was totally unnoticed by him.
He never was an adept at understanding looks—and, at this moment, all his senses
were engrossed by his attention to Emma. Not knowing precisely what to say next,
he began to admire her work, a constant resource with young men who are anxious
to talk, and rather barren of subjects; but this did not endure very long, and
when he could find nothing more to say on this topic, he suddenly started a
brilliant idea by enquiring if the ladies did not intend to go out. Emma
appealed to Lady Gordon, who declared at first, she was too lazy to stir; but
her brother pressed his proposition so very warmly, alternately suggesting
riding, driving, or walking, that at last she yielded the point, and consented
to allow him to drive them out. Then followed a long discussion as to the
vehicle to be chosen, which terminated in favour of an Irish car—a very favorite
mode of conveyance of Lady Gordon's, and one which was by no means disagreeable
to him, as he would be quite able to talk to Emma as much as he felt inclined.
The drive which they proposed to take was a very pretty one—through a country
partaking of the nature of a forest—and Emma was at first, highly delighted with
it. But an accident, which occurred when near the conclusion of their
expedition, materially diminished the pleasure of the whole party. In stepping
from the seat, in order to ascend a small eminence which commanded a beautiful
view, Emma placed her foot on a rolling pebble, which giving way under her,
twisted her ankle so severely as to incapacitate her entirely from walking, and
occasion her very considerable pain. The concern of her friends on the occasion,
was proportionate to their regard for her, and quite in character with their
different dispositions. Lady Gordon expressed her sorrow in words—her brother
confined his chiefly to looks. They returned home immediately; and Emma was,
with the assistance of Sir William, who joined them at the castle porch,
conveyed into the mansion and carried up-stairs. It was very painful at first,
and she told her friend she could not join their party in the evening; but Lady
Gordon expressed so much regret at this, that Emma consented to make an effort,
as there was no necessity for ascending or descending stairs, their usual
sitting room being on the same floor with her apartments. Accordingly she spent
the evening on a couch near to which Lord Osborne stationed himself, in order to
enjoy a good view of her face. It was evident that his love for her had not made
him more lively, or more talkative, and to judge from his manners that evening,
he had not made much progress in politeness. He allowed all the little offices
of civility to be performed by Sir William, never offering to hand her a cup of
coffee, nor seeing when it was empty, and requiring removal; never noticing when
her reel of silk dropped on the ground, or discovering if her embroidery frame
was raised at the proper angle. His total neglect of all this, together with the
little conversation he ever attempted to carry on, and the general reserve of
his manner, entirely prevented Emma from entertaining the idea, that he was her
serious admirer. Had she really supposed it, her manners might have been
different, but as it was, she felt as much at ease with him, as with his
brother-in-law, and treated him with equal frankness. She never had thought him
particularly agreeable, and it did not enter her head that he would wish to make
himself so, for otherwise, he would probably have behaved very differently; at
least so she concluded, when she contrasted his manner with that of some others
of her acquaintance. The sprain of her ankle occasioned her great pain all the
evening, as Sir William guessed from the paleness of her cheeks, and the shade
round her mouth at times; but she did all she could to conceal it, and chatted
with him and Lady Gordon as long as they remained together. But she never felt
more relieved than when at his suggestion, the proposal for retiring was made
early, in order to relieve her, for she had borne as much as she could in
silence, and really felt once or twice on the point of fainting. Lady Gordon
took the most judicious step she could, for she summoned to her assistance the
old house-keeper, who being peculiarly great in doctoring sprains, and all such
accidental maladies, soon produced some remedy for the pain Emma was suffering.
But it was evident it would be some days before she would be able to walk at
all, and she very much regretted this deprivation, during the beautiful weather
they were then enjoying. In the forenoon of the following day, as she was
reclining on a couch near the open window, engaged in drawing a group of flowers
for Lady Gordon's portfolio, Mr. Howard entered the room. As her hostess
happened to have left the room a few minutes before, he found Emma, to his great
astonishment, _tête-à-tête_ with Lord Osborne. He had no idea that the young
nobleman was then in the country, and not the least expectation of meeting at
that moment with one whom he could not avoid considering as a dangerous rival.
His quick eye did not fail to perceive too, that some of the flowers in the vase
before Emma were of precisely the same kind as the sprig in Lord Osborne's coat,
and he came to the not unnatural conclusion, that they had been given to him by
herself. He felt quite disconcerted at the circumstance, and he always had an
uncomfortable sense of self-reproach, when he remembered that he had left his
lordship in ignorance of his own wishes, at the time that he received his
confidence. He now hesitated whether to enter the room or not, but Lord Osborne
advanced to meet him with considerable pleasure, and effectually prevented his
withdrawal. He was compelled to shake hands, when at the moment he felt so very
unamiably disposed towards his former pupil, that he was far more inclined to
turn his back upon him. "Very glad indeed to see you, Mr. Howard," said the
other, "I dare say you are a little surprised to see _me_ here; but I could not
help coming. You see we have got _her_ back again, aren't you glad?" glancing at
the sofa where Emma was lying. She too held out her hand to him, and her cheeks
crimsoned at seeing him again; but as she never suspected his jealousy, not
supposing there was any occasion for it, she felt rather hurt at the coldness of
his address, and the hurried way in which he greeted her. Lord Osborne eyed them
both, and though not in general gifted with much penetration, his love seemed,
at least on this occasion, to have made him sharp-sighted, as the idea suddenly
entered his mind that there was danger to his suit in the visits of his former
tutor. He sat down in silence, determined to observe them closely, and not to
disturb his powers of judging, he resolved to keep a profound silence. The
consequence of these various feelings was a peculiarly awkward silence, and
Emma, angry with the lover she cared for, on account of his variable manners
which perpetually perplexed and disappointed her, was almost determined not to
open her lips to him. At length he spoke. "I called intending to enquire if you
were disposed to fulfil the engagement we talked of the other day Miss Watson,
about the picture-gallery; but perhaps I need not ask _now_—you probably are not
disposed for the exertion." "It is indeed quite out of my power this morning,"
replied Emma; "and I wish I could name a time when it would be possible to have
the pleasure." "It is only dependent on yourself—but if you have more agreeable
engagements, of course it is natural you should defer this one. Whenever you
wish it, will you let we know?" "Do you suppose it to be a more agreeable
engagement lying prisoner here?" replied Emma smiling; "our tastes must differ
more than I had fancied they would if you do so." "You did not use to be
indolent, I know," replied he; "but no doubt it is far more like modern
fashionable manners to pass the day on a sofa than in active pursuits." "Now do
not be satirical, Mr. Howard," said she in a lively tone; "I never was, and I
hope I never shall be converted into a fashionable fine lady, and my lying on
the sofa has nothing to do with indolence or inclination." "Indeed!" he replied,
with a provoking air of incredulity. "Yes, indeed and indeed—I assure you it is
a downright punishment to me, only alleviated by the kindness of my friends in
trying to amuse me." Mr. Howard glanced at Lord Osborne, as if he attributed the
friendship and the amusement alike to him. "No, you are wrong there—I dare say
his lordship is afraid I should be spoilt if I had too much indulgence, so he
contents himself with disarranging my flowers and contradicting my opinions: I
really must trouble you, my lord, for the bud you stole," she added turning to
him; "I cannot do without it." "And I cannot possibly let you have it," replied
he abruptly; "it's gone, I shall not tell you where." "Now is not that too
provoking!" cried Emma; "with all his conservatories and gardens at command, to
envy me my single sprig which Sir William took so much trouble in procuring me.
I had a particular value for it on his account, and having sketched it into this
group: I must have it, or the whole will be spoilt." "Will you promise me the
drawing, if I give it back to you?" asked he. "No indeed—it is for your sister.
Mr. Howard, will you not take my part? I am exposed, without the power of
resisting, to his depredations; he knows I cannot move from this sofa." "But do
tell me what is the matter?" enquired Mr. Howard seriously; "have you really met
with an accident?" "Only a sprain which incapacitates me from moving," she
answered. "I am exceedingly grieved to hear it," he said with looks of real
concern. "I had been thinking only of want of inclination, not want of power,
when you declined moving." "You see in that instance then you misunderstood me,
perhaps you do so in others likewise," she replied; an equivocal speech which
threw Howard into a fit of abstraction for several minutes whilst pondering on
her meaning. Recovering himself he began to enquire the particulars of the
accident, which she detailed to him, ending her account with desiring him to
deduce some moral from the history. "Perhaps you would not like the moral I
should draw," he replied with a smile; "it might not be flattering or
agreeable." "I dare say, it would not be flattering, Mr. Howard; I should not
expect it from you—suppose we all make a moral to the tale, and see if we can
think alike. Come, my lord, let us have yours." "Give me time to think then,"
said he—for, in spite of his resolution in favor of silence, he could not help
yielding to her smiles. "Five minutes by the watch on the chimney-piece, and in
good time—here come Sir William and Lady Gordon to give their opinion of our
sentiments." "I am quite ready to give mine at once," returned Sir William, who
heard only the last speech, as he entered through the window from the terrace:

"I have no doubt that yours, Miss Watson, are very severe—Osborne's romantic—and
Howard's common place. Will that do?" "Not at all—you shall be no judge in the
matter, since you make up your mind before you hear the cause," cried Emma,
"Lady Gordon shall be umpire, and if you like to produce a moral, do so." "What
is it all about?" enquired Lady Gordon, "I must understand before I decide."
"Not the least necessary, my dear Rosa," said her husband, "and quite out of
character; women always decide first—and understanding, if it comes at all, is
quite a secondary consideration with them." "A pretty speech to make," exclaimed
Emma, "when he himself just now answered without understanding at all." "I knew
you would be severe," replied Sir William to Emma, "but I was, I assure you,
only trying to bring down my conduct to the level of my companions." "Shall we
not turn him out of the room?" cried his wife, "he is intolerable to-day!" "Oh
no! take no notice of him," said Emma, with spirit, "I do not mind a word he
says!" "You—all of you talk so much," exclaimed Lord Osborne, "that it is
impossible for me to settle my thoughts—but I think I have made my moral
now—shall I say it?" "By all means, my lord," said Emma. "We are all grave
attention," observed Sir William. "Well, I think ladies should take great care
not to make false steps—because, if they do, they will not be able to stand by
themselves afterwards." "Bravo, Osborne!" cried his sister, "but rather severe
on my friend." "And you, Mr. Howard," she continued, "will you favour us with
your opinion?" "Mine is, that Miss Watson should, in future, avoid any great
haste in climbing to eminent situations, lest she be the loser in the attempt."
Emma colored slightly at the earnest glance which accompanied the low, emphatic
tone of his speech, but laughed it off by observing:

"Yes, my nature is so ambitious, I need that counsel." "And now, Miss Watson,"
cried Lord Osborne, eagerly; "it's your turn." "Well, the moral I draw is, when
I am in a comfortable position again, to take care and not lose it in searching
for some imaginary advantage—the moral of 'The substance and the shadow.'" "And
mine," exclaimed Sir William, "you must hear mine—it is, that a young lady's
strength of limb is probably less than her strength of will; and I have always
observed it to be easier for her to twist her ankle, than to give up her own
way." "And mine," exclaimed Lady Gordon, "My dear Miss Watson, my moral is, that
you should never invite men to comment on your conduct, for they are sure to
draw false conclusions and make ill-natured remarks." "It is the more hard, as
your brother was the origin of my misfortune," observed Emma, "but for his
persuasion, I should have sat still." "Just like the precious sex, my dear
friend," replied Lady Gordon, "lead you into a scrape, and then be the first to
blame you for being there." "All married women talk in that way," observed Sir
William, "they make a point of abusing men on all occasions; I never could quite
make out the reason." "It is the very natural result of experience, my love,"
said his wife. "I sometimes think it is to prevent other women marrying,"
continued he, "lest their offices, as chaperones, should be uncalled for; and
sometimes, I think it is merely to contradict themselves—which all women are so
fond of doing—for having paid a man the compliment of marrying him, it becomes
necessary to thwart him afterwards, lest he be too proud." "Miss Watson, have
you air enough here," said Lord Osborne, coming up to her sofa; "do let me push
you out on the terrace—it would be so pleasant now the sun is off." Lady Gordon
seconded the proposal, and called on Mr. Howard to assist her brother. He did
so; and then, distressed to find that the young lord of the castle took his
station closer than ever to her side, he tore himself away from the whole party
and went to shut himself up at home till the evening. Emma felt quite provoked
at the pertinacity with which Lord Osborne kept at her elbow; she had hoped that
he would have found it tedious to remain all day tranquil—but his patience was
more enduring than she had given him credit for. He even seemed to improve in
spirits and began talking more than before. "Nice fellow, that Howard—is not
he?" was his first observation, when the gentleman in question quitted them.
"Yes, very," replied Emma, not knowing precisely what else to say, and wondering
what would come next. "He has a prodigious deal to say for himself, which makes
him a favorite," continued the animated peer, "I wish I could talk so, don't
you?" "I do not think he talked much to-day," replied Emma, "if he did, I did
not hear it at least." "Perhaps you do not care to have men such very great
talkers—do you? I never heard your opinion about that." "I really believe I have
none, my lord," answered Emma, "I never made up mind as to how much a man or
woman should talk to make themselves agreeable—some men I know, talk too much."
"Meaning me, Miss Watson?" cried Sir William. "The too much, must depend on the
quality likewise—if they happen to be very silly or very dull, a few sentences
are enough to tire one," added Emma, "whereas a lively, clever man, may talk for
an hour without being wearisome." "That is a comforting speech," exclaimed Sir
William, "Osborne, we will take out our watches next time we begin a
conversation with Miss Watson. Lively, clever men—the description just suits
us—_we_ may talk precisely sixty minutes." Lord Osborne looked grave, as he
suspected his brother-in-law was laughing at him, and Emma was silent, being
unwilling to annoy him.—It had been settled that the Musgroves were to come over
early in the afternoon, that they might spend some time with their sister; and
in spite of his usual predilection for late hours and unpunctuality, Tom was
rendered too proud and happy by the invitation to feel at all disposed to delay
the honor. Soon after luncheon they arrived; Margaret adorned in all her wedding
finery, delighted at such an opportunity of showing it off. Her new bonnet and
pelisse were decidedly more fashionable, according to the Lady's Magazine, than
anything Lady Gordon herself could produce; and she was not a little surprised,
as well as half-affronted, at the simplicity of dress which her hostess had
adopted. On discovering the circumstance that Emma was confined to the sofa, she
would not rest till she had heard the whole history of the accident, and then
she uttered this sisterly observation:

"Good gracious! how excessively awkward and careless of you, Emma; how could you
be so stupid? well I am glad it is not me, as of all things I hate a sprain—to
go waddling about like an old goose—it's too absurd really." "I don't see
anything absurd in it," said Lord Osborne sturdily, "it's very unfortunate and
very vexatious to us, and I dare say very painful to her, but there's nothing
absurd in it." "I did not mean absurd precisely," retracted Margaret, who would
never dream of contradicting a peer of the realm, "I only meant it was very
ridiculous." Lord Osborne did not condescend to answer any more, but rose and
walked whistling away. Meantime, Tom was trying to be excessively gallant and
agreeable to Lady Gordon, who, never particularly prepossessed in his favor,
seemed now unusually cold and ungracious. In fact she could not quite forgive
the danger she had been in of being called into court, and naturally looking on
him as the cause, she felt a considerable degree of repugnance towards him. His
obsequiousness and flatteries did him no service; she would not be accessible to
any compliments of his, and to the most elaborate praises, returned him the
coldest answers. "Where is your charming friend Miss Carr now?" enquired he at
length, "I should rejoice to meet her again, though my position is altered since
I last had that felicity. I hope she has not forgotten me!" "I cannot possibly
answer for that, but I have no idea that your change of position will at all
affect her; but she will soon remember you if she does not at first." "She was a
delightful girl," observed he again, "so truly lady-like and lively; a
combination one does not often meet with." "She has high spirits," replied Lady
Gordon. "High spirits are charming things—so captivating." "I think them very
apt to be tiresome," observed she. "High spirits united to good sense and
abilities, form a very charming character," observed Sir William, "but
unbalanced by these, they are apt to be overpowering. However, I should acquit
Miss Carr of them altogether; she tried to be lively with all her might, but it
was rather heavy work." "I heard she was in this neighbourhood," returned Tom,
"is that true?" "I believe so," said Lady Gordon, "and I rather expect her here
soon." "Who is that you are talking of, Tom?" cried his wife in a sharp voice,
"who is this charming woman?" "Nobody you know," replied he carelessly. "My
friend Miss Carr," said Lady Gordon, shocked at the rudeness of the gentleman's
reply, "perhaps you remember seeing her with me formerly." "Oh dear yes, I
remember her very well. Tom used to admire her very much, he often talked about
her beautiful complexion," was Margaret's answer, "_Fanny Carr_ he used to speak
of a great deal, he thought she admired him!" Tom bit his lips, and looked
anything but gratified at his wife's observation, who exceedingly enjoyed his
vexation, and triumphed in having so amply revenged herself for his rude reply.
"It is very provoking of you to be laid up lame there," she continued presently
to Emma, "I should like to see the grounds of the Castle; I am always so
unfortunate on such occasions: nobody meets with so many disappointments as me."
"No doubt Emma did it to provoke you," observed Tom with a sneer. "I shall be
very happy to show you over the grounds myself," interrupted Lady Gordon,
convinced that anything would be better than the altercation going on between
the husband and wife, which must be equally disagreeable to Emma as herself.
Margaret accepted the proposition very joyfully, and the two ladies left the
room together, as Sir William saw no necessity for accompanying them. "I suppose
you enjoy yourself famously here, Emma," observed Tom, coming close up to her
sofa. "Yes, when I have not a sprained ankle," replied she. "And even when you
have, your spirits are so good, you seem to enjoy yourself still," observed Lord
Osborne, who had returned from the terrace when Margaret left the room. "But it
makes her of consequence, and all young ladies like that," answered her brother-
in-law. "I am sure Margaret is always affecting to be ill for no other purpose,
and reproaching me because I do not believe it." "I do not think your wife at
all like her sister," observed Lord Osborne, coolly. "I wish to heaven she were
in any respect," cried Tom, "but I had no such good luck. However, I suppose I
must bear my yoke." Nobody answered, and after a little while Mr. Musgrove
continued,

"One comfort of being married is, that I can flirt now without danger with any
girl I choose, there is no risk now of being compelled to marry any more." "You
consider that a privilege of married men," said Sir William, enquiringly.
"Certainly, for on my honour, they need some compensation; I recommend you to
marry, my lord, as indeed the privilege is a great comfort!" "When I marry I
shall leave off flirting," said Lord Osborne, decidedly, "out of compliment to
my wife." "Tantamount to an assertion you will never marry, Osborne," said Sir
William, "for I never knew you flirt yet." "How does your stable go on, my
lord?" enquired Tom, "I should like to see it." "You are welcome to go and see
it if you please, so long as you don't drag me there; I am not inclined for an
excursion to the stables at present." Tom whistled and walked away, Lord Osborne
drew nearer to Emma, and said,

"I hope you don't like him—do you?" "He is my brother-in-law," replied Emma,
"you forget that." "I think _he_ does," retorted Lord Osborne, "but one is not
obliged to like one's brother-in-law, I suppose." "I hope you mean nothing
personal or disrespectful by that observation," exclaimed Sir William. "No, on
my honour, I forgot about you, Gordon," said he, "but I should think it quite
enough if the husband likes his wife without its being at all necessary that the
mother and sisters, and brother-in-law, should all like her too." "Not
necessary, certainly, but altogether desirable, and certainly conducive to
domestic felicity." "If my sister does not like my wife she must keep at a
distance from her," said Lord Osborne, positively, "and then her feelings will
be of no consequence—Don't you agree with me, Miss Watson?" "Not exactly, my
lord; I should not in practice, certainly—I do not think I would marry into a
family where I was altogether unwelcome!" "I am sorry for it," said Lord
Osborne, very softly, and then looking remarkably conscious and awkward, he
walked away. "His theories sound more unprincipled than his practice would be, I
suspect," observed Sir William, looking after him, and glancing at Emma, "I
doubt whether he would really bear a quarrel with his sister with such
indifference." "I dare say not," said Emma, without at all suspecting she had
any share in his feelings, or interest in his proceedings. "Young men often
assert far more than they would like to realise, and I do not think worse of him
than of many of his neighbours. I dare say he likes his own way—"

"He is very determined in following out his own opinions, I assure you," he
replied, "but what I meant was, that though from impulse he _might_ act in
opposition to the wishes of his family, he would certainly repent it, as every
body does sooner or later." "Very likely, so for his sake I hope he will not
try!" replied Emma, very unconcernedly. "Shall I go on reading to you, Miss
Watson," enquired Sir William, "or is there anything you want." Emma replied
that she should prefer reading to herself, and Sir William, having supplied her
with the volumes she desired, left her in solitude. Thus she remained until she
was interrupted by the entrance of Mr. Howard, who looked something between
pleased and frightened at finding her alone. She told him where the others were
gone, so far as she knew herself, but he seemed perfectly satisfied to take her
assertions on trust, evincing no desire at all to follow them. He said it was
very warm out of doors, that her room was exceedingly comfortable, and that he
hoped she would make no objection to his remaining in her company. She, as may
easily be supposed, had no wish to oppose him, and a long and amicable
conversation followed relative to the books she had been reading. They agreed in
admiring the authors in question, and then in praising Sir William Gordon, who
had recommended them. Mr. Howard declared him to be, in his opinion, a very
superior young man, calculated to raise the character and improve the mind of
his wife; he had the power, and the will, to guide her right, and it was
probable that their domestic happiness would continue and increase. Emma
earnestly hoped it would; there was a great deal to love and value in Lady
Gordon, and hers was a character which would certainly, with judicious
management, be greatly improved. "I like her," said Mr. Howard, "for her freedom
from pride of birth; and considering what lessons she received from her mother
that shows very great independence of character." "Her friendship for me is one
proof of that," observed Emma, "she has been invariably kind to me, and I have
no claim to equality with her." "Not in rank or fortune," replied he, "but allow
me to say, in habits, tastes, and education, you are completely her equal, and
she feels it so; her admiration and regard for you are so perfectly natural,
that I can allow her no credit for that part of her conduct." "I think I shall
give you no credit, Mr. Howard, if you indulge in such a very complimentary
strain," replied Emma smiling; "though I suppose you think something due to me
to make up for your severe reflections on my ambitious projects." "Your
ambitious projects!" repeated he surprised. "Yes; no later than this morning you
warned me not to climb too high, lest I should fall irretrievably; you see I
remember your lessons, though you may affect a short memory on the occasion." "I
wish I could consider it as a proof that you are not offended at my boldness,"
said he drawing his chair closer to her; "I really wished afterwards to
apologise for my words, I feared you would think me so impertinent. You were not
angry?" "Not the least in the world—why should I be?" was her answer, gaily
smiling. "Indeed I did not believe you were serious; you may laugh at my vanity,
but I did not feel guilty of ambition." "And if you were, _I_ had no right, no
title, no claim to correct you," said he looking very earnestly at her. "The
right of a friend and well-wisher, Mr. Howard," replied she looking down with a
heightened colour—she never could meet his eyes when they had that peculiar
expression in them. "I trust I may consider _you_ in that light at least." "You
have not a sincerer well-wisher in the world," he replied with emphasis, and
then stopped abruptly. To break the pause which appeared to her to be awkward,
she observed,

"You did not tell me where your sister is, Mr. Howard—or else I have forgotten:
where is it?" "In North Wales, not far from Denbigh. I am going shortly to fetch
her home." "I think you are always going somewhere; ever since I knew you, you
have been perpetually offering to go away. Do you ever put it in practice."
"Sometimes—you will find I shall in this instance. I must go to fetch Clara, the
only question is when?" "And does that depend on Mrs. Willis' wishes, or your
caprice." "A little on both, if you mean by caprice the power of absenting
myself from the duties of my station," replied he. "I wish I had met Mrs.
Willis," said Emma; "pray make haste and fetch her, for if I leave the country
without our meeting now, it is impossible to say when, if ever, I shall see her
again." "Are you going quite away then?" enquired he with concern. "I thought
your home was at Croydon." "It is impossible to say where my home may be—not
Croydon certainly—perhaps I may _never_ have another. I must in future be
content to dwell amongst strangers, and dare not talk of home. I am wishing for
a situation as governess." A slight shade of melancholy replaced the usually gay
expression of her countenance as she said this, but she did not raise her eyes
to read the many conflicting feelings which were depicted in his countenance as
he listened to her low and feeble voice. He could not command words to express
his sentiments, or indeed feel at all sure us to what he ought to express at the
moment; and she added, after a short pause,

"I have one prospect of a home, though an uncertain one at present; my brother—I
mean my youngest brother—urges me to go and live with him the moment he can
obtain a living for us both in his profession. But it must be quite uncertain
when that will be." He was still silent, hesitating whether or not he should at
that moment offer her one other home more settled and more permanent. He
hesitated, and the opportunity was lost. Footsteps were heard approaching; the
high, shrill voice of Margaret sounded in the conservatory. In a low and hurried
tone he spoke, clasping her hand in his;

"Dearest Miss Watson, I feel for you! If I had only time I would prove it!"
There _was_ no time for more, but with a gentle pressure which made the blood
thrill from her hands up to her heart, he rose and quitted her abruptly,
escaping just quickly enough through one window to avoid being seen, as Lady
Gordon and Mrs. Musgrove entered at another. Emma remained in a state of feeling
which she would have found it exceedingly difficult to describe, such was the
confusion in her mind at the moment. Her most prominent idea was, however,
disappointment that he had said so little. She really believed he loved her—at
least that he intended her to suppose it; but why not speak more plainly, or why
speak at all? It would be so very hard to meet him after what had passed, in the
same way as formerly; and yet, how could she avoid it? There seemed no
possibility, however, of his doing anything but explaining himself the very
first opportunity—surely he could not hesitate longer, and all would then be
right. But with these contradictory notions in her mind, and the agitation to
which they gave rise evident in her face, it was impossible for her manners to
be sufficiently composed, not to attract her friend's notice. Lady Gordon
thought she was in pain, and accused her of having been attempting to move;
which she attributed to the fact of Sir William having gone out and left her
alone; Emma defended both Sir William and herself as well as she could, forcing
herself to speak cheerfully, and denying all accession of pain or efforts at
improper exertion. Margaret, throwing herself on an easy chair, declared that
she was perfectly exhausted by the heat and the fatigue of their walk, and she
quite wondered how Lady Gordon could bear so much exertion. "But I really
believe that I am more delicate and sooner tired than any woman in the world. I
have never been accustomed to hard work." Lady Gordon did not trouble herself to
assert that neither had she, but quietly observed that she was sorry Mrs.
Musgrove had tired herself. "Do you see much of your brother, Lady Gordon?"
enquired Margaret. "Yes, when he is with me," she answered. "I hope he is
pleasanter than mine, then," observed Margaret, "or else it must be a prodigious
bore." "I dare say, they are not alike," said Lady Gordon, who was existing in a
state of incessant surprise at the conversation of Margaret. "I _do_ so wish my
brothers had no profession—it would be so nice if they had nothing to do—like
gentlemen—Tom's being a complete gentleman is very lucky, I should not have
liked to have been a doctor's wife or an attorney's. Should you, Lady Gordon?"
"Really, it was an event which I never took into contemplation," replied she, "I
know so few doctors, or attorneys either, that I cannot pretend to judge." "I
wish somebody would marry Emma," continued her amiable sister. "I am quite
afraid she is doomed to be an old maid—one of a family must be they say; and as
Pen is married, and Elizabeth will soon be, it must be Emma's fate. I am quite
sorry for her." "I am exceedingly obliged to you for your concern, Margaret,"
replied Emma, laughing; "but I trust, even if such a catastrophe is to occur, I
shall bear it with philosophy. So pray, do not make yourself unhappy about my
future. I shall not." "All young ladies talk in that way," observed Tom
Musgrove, who entered the room unperceived, whilst his wife was speaking. "No
girl ever owns wishing to be married, though we know very well that they are all
longing for husbands—and most are ready to take any means to secure one!" "I am
gratified that you include us _all_ in the same condemnation, Mr. Musgrove,"
said Lady Gordon, haughtily, "your very flattering opinion of us, is equally
creditable to your fancy and your feeling of propriety." "Of course, I did not
mean to include _you_," answered Tom, gallantly, "I _could_ not, for I never
thought of you as a woman, but as an angel." Lady Gordon did not condescend to
answer—she was not to be propitiated by his flattery, and was more likely to be
affronted at his presuming to offer it at all. CHAPTER VIII. Mr. Howard having,
by this time, recovered sufficient composure to return to the company, re-
appeared from the conservatory, where he had been calming his feelings amidst
roses and heliotropes, and soon afterwards the other two gentlemen joined the
party. Mr. Howard, himself, did not venture near Emma; but, after paying his
compliments to Mrs. Musgrove, retreated to a window and seemed to be occupied
with a newspaper. Though the two ladies subsequently retired to their toilet
preparatory to dinner, there was no further _tête-à-tête_ between him and Emma,
as the other gentlemen continued in the room till dinner time. Emma, of course,
could not join in that meal; and did not, therefore, hear the comments which Mr.
Howard's absence of mind drew on him. Mrs. Musgrove laughed outright—even Lady
Gordon smiled, and Tom Musgrove openly accused him of being decidedly in love.
Sir William came to his rescue, and parried the attacks of Tom for a time; but
after the ladies withdrew, Tom commenced again, and tormented him unmercifully
on the subject—declaring that he had long seen his attachment to Emma Watson—and
without scruple, held out himself as an example of the risk of indulging in
little harmless flirtations, by which one was unknowingly drawn into the meshes
of hopeless matrimony. Mr. Howard was quite affronted; and answered indignantly,
that whatever his feelings towards Miss Emma Watson might be, he thought of her
with far too much respect, to allow her name to be used slightingly by any one,
and that he should, least of all, expect from her brother-in-law insinuations so
derogatory to her character. Sir William again interfered, and requested the
subject to be dropped; he could not allow unfriendly feelings between his
guests—and he had no doubt but that Mr. Musgrove had been misunderstood, if he
could be supposed to speak unhandsomely of so amiable a young woman as Miss
Watson, and one, who was, at the very time, Lady Gordon's visitor. "I defy any
one to prove a word derogatory to Emma Watson," cried Lord Osborne, his eyes
flashing with most unusual animation; "In my house, and as my sister's guest,
her name must and shall be treated with respect." "Upon my honor I did not mean
any reflection upon her," exclaimed Tom, quite taken by surprise by the spirit
he had raised, "it is the last thing I dreamt of to offend you, my lord." "Very
well," cried Sir William, "that is sufficient, let the subject drop." And so it
did for the present, but what passed had made a deep impression on Lord Osborne,
whose fears of Mr. Howard as a rival were all confirmed by this discussion. He
could not rest without some explanation on this subject, and accordingly drew
him into the garden after dinner, and there whilst pacing up and down the
terrace, told him he had something very particular to say to him. Howard's heart
told him what was coming, and he resolved to summon his courage and speak openly
on this occasion. "You know, Howard," said the young peer in a tone between
remonstrance and complaint, "I never made any secret to you of my wishes and
hopes with regard to Emma Watson—you have long known that nothing but
circumstances prevented my addressing her and asking her hand." "I know it, my
Lord," replied Howard. "Well then, I must say I look upon it as neither kind nor
honorable of you to cut me out, or at least try to do so, for until _she_
convinces me, I will not believe you have quite succeeded. But you should not
have used me so, when I had been quite open with you." His companion was
embarrassed; for the total absence of self-confidence, which formed a prominent
part of his character, made it very hard for him to publish his love whilst his
prospects were uncertain. "Tell me," continued Lord Osborne with some warmth,
"do you not yourself love Emma Watson? Have you not sought to supplant me?" "I
will not deny that I do love her,—but I trust the acknowledgement will be safe
with you—I own I love her—have loved her long—did love her well when you told me
your own views, my Lord, and in fact have loved her ever since our first meeting
in the assembly rooms." "And why was I not told of this when I mentioned my
plans to you—why allow me to form false hopes, whilst you were undermining the
ground on which I stood?" "You are unjust to me, my Lord, you speak as if I had
tried to injure you, or prejudice her against you. Had _I_ not a right to love
her—have I not a right to win her if I can? Though I _am_ but a poor parson and
you are a peer, surely _she_ is the only one to decide whether my addresses may
not be acceptable to her. I have never attempted to thwart your success, nor
have I ever made Emma a declaration of my own attachment. But I have as good a
right to do so as yourself." "I did not mean to call your rights in question at
all, Mr. Howard; what I quarrel with is, your want of openness in not letting me
know that I had a rival in you. Had you done so, I should have had no cause to
complain." "I own I was sorry afterwards that I did not speak openly, my lord,
on that occasion, but my uncertainty as to _her_ feelings prevented me!" "Then
you are _now_ convinced of success?" observed Lord Osborne gloomily. "By no
means; you have forced a confession from me, which under other circumstances I
would not have made; but I am very far indeed from confidence on the subject.
She has never heard me declare my feelings." "I am glad of it—well then I really
think, Howard, the best thing you can do is to take yourself off for a few days,
and leave the field clear for me. Now do, there's a good fellow, and I shall be
eternally obliged to you." "You ask a great deal," replied Howard gravely. "Not
so very much, because, you see, if I am accepted it proves that you would be
refused, and just saves you the trouble altogether; and if I am refused I will
let you know, and you can come in directly and follow up your chase. Do you
agree to it?" "I must have a little time to think of that proposal, my lord,"
replied Howard, hesitating and unwilling to assent. "Till to-morrow morning, I
cannot give you longer, let me know what you settle on to-morrow, and I shall
arrange my plans. Do you know my mother talks of coming down here?" "I had not
heard of it; when does her ladyship think of doing so?" "Very soon; I think the
good old soul has taken it into that precious head of hers to suspect what I am
about, and in her horror of a misalliance, she is coming down in hopes of
stopping me altogether. By Jove it would be a good joke to get it all settled
before her appearance." "Do you think Emma Watson will consent to be your wife,
if she supposes, her ladyship, your mother, objects?" "That's the worst of it—I
am afraid she may have some scruples, but I mean to try my luck at all events.
There's another thing too, to be considered, Fanny Carr is coming here—that
eternal talker, Fanny Carr, and it would save me an immense deal of trouble with
her if I could give myself out as an engaged man. She would not talk half so
much." "You really think that would make a difference," said Mr. Howard, trying
to smile, but not very successfully. "I have no doubt of it at all, and the
blessing of being freed in some degree from the trouble of answering her is more
than I could tell. That girl would talk the hind leg off a horse in no time."
Howard deliberated. He felt perfectly convinced that Emma never would marry from
ambition or mercenary motives, but he was not quite sure what degree of
influence the young peer might have over her heart. The idea of meeting Lady
Osborne again was excessively disagreeable, and as he was really under the
necessity of going to fetch his sister home, he thought perhaps he might as well
go at once, and allow Lord Osborne a fair field. Then if the event were
consonant to his own wishes he might return with a safe conscience. But the
question arose, what would Emma herself think of it; in what light would she
consider his quitting her thus suddenly, after the betrayal of feeling which he
that very afternoon had made? Would she not think him the most capricious, the
most changeable of mortals—might she not be justly affronted with him, indignant
at his vacillation—might she not suspect him of trifling with her feelings—might
she not think herself extremely ill-used—could he bear to forfeit the esteem
which she had sometimes shown for him. No, Lord Osborne asked too much, he
thought only of himself, and expected to rule Howard now, in an affair of
consequence like this, in the same way as he had formerly done, when the
question solely regarded what part of the river they should fish, or which copse
they should go through with their guns. It was impossible, he could not, and he
ought not to yield, and he determined that he would not. These thoughts
occupying his mind, he was exceedingly silent during the whole evening, hardly
venturing to trust his voice beyond a monosyllable, and never raising his eyes
except by stealth to that part of the room where Emma sat. The evening passed
very much as might be expected amongst such a party—Margaret talked a great
deal, and her husband took every opportunity of contradicting her assertions,
and turning her opinions into ridicule. Lady Gordon gave up all attempts at
keeping the peace as perfectly hopeless, and Sir William sat by Emma and
entertained her with his conversation, whilst his brother-in-law was quite as
silent as his rival. At length, to the great relief of the whole party, the
Musgroves' carriage was announced, and they took their leave, and Emma, ashamed,
agitated, fatigued, and worried, left the party immediately afterwards, for the
silence and peace of her own apartments. She was ashamed and mortified that the
Gordons should have seen the want of concord, and the absence of courtesy
between her sister and her husband—it was much worse than she had expected. Tom
seemed to think no civility even was due, and Margaret set no bounds to her
peevishness; but all this anxiety was merged in her considerations as to Mr.
Howard's conduct and feelings. She could not comprehend him, and she understood
herself only too well. His last words to her might in themselves mean nothing,
but there was a tone and a look which accompanied them which gave them a deep,
and, to her, most important meaning. Her hand still seemed to feel the thrilling
pressure of his fingers, and she could hardly believe that after this he could
longer leave her in doubt as to his wishes. Whether it was the agitation of mind
which these reflections occasioned, or solely owing to the pain which for two
days she had been suffering, she could hardly tell, but the next morning she
found herself so feverish and unwell as to be quite unable to leave her room.
She felt this the more because she thus, as she fancied, lost the interview with
Mr. Howard which she had been promising herself, and until she found all chance
of it gone, she had not known how very much she was depending on it. In the
meantime a scene which she little dreamt of was enacted at the vicarage. Early
in the morning, Lord Osborne, impatient for the decision which he fully expected
would be in his favour, hurried to secure an interview with Mr. Howard. Great
was his surprise when he met with a firm refusal from this gentleman to accede
to his proposal. He would not absent himself from Emma at this time; he would
not forego the chances of success in his suit; no voluntary act on his part
should cause her to doubt his sincerity, or suppose him indifferent to her. Lord
Osborne was thwarted in a way which he little expected, and he had so seldom met
with opposition before, that he knew not how to brook it on this occasion. He
was quite silent, but with gloomy look, and long strides, he paced up and down
the little drawing-room, uncertain what to do or say next, or how to express his
indignation. Circumstances, however, befriended him in an unexpected way; whilst
he was giving way to his irritation by heavy steps and bent brows, and his host
was heartily wishing the unpleasant interview terminated, the post arrived, and
a letter was brought to Mr. Howard which speedily engrossed all his attention.
It was from his sister, and written in great distress—her little boy was
dangerously ill, and she urged her brother to come to her, as from a variety of
circumstances she stood in need of his protection and advice. She was in
lodgings, and the mistress of the house, a hard-hearted and parsimonious woman,
took advantage of the difficulties in which she was placed, and not only imposed
on her in every possible way, but refused her the assistance of which she stood
in need in the present extremity. Deeply grieved at this detail of the
sufferings undergone by the sister on whom he doted, he felt not a moment's
hesitation as to his determination. To fly to comfort and defend her must be his
first wish, and let the consequences be what they might, all must give way
before such an appeal. With emotion scarcely to be repressed, he turned to Lord
Osborne and said,

"Providence, my lord, has decided against me, and your request must now be
acceded to as an imperative duty on my part. My sister requires my presence, and
if I can arrange my affairs to-day I shall leave by the night mail for Wales."
Lord Osborne's irrepressible pleasure was a certain proof how deeply he had
taken this affair to heart, and how little he cared for the feelings of others,
except as they thwarted or fell in with his own. He greatly commended Howard for
determining to go immediately, and would have been quite as ready to commend
Mrs. Willis for wanting him. He was zealous in obviating any possible difficulty
about the performance of the Sunday duty, and only demurred to the absolute
necessity which Howard alleged of going up to the Castle to see and take leave
of the ladies. But here his arguments were met with entire unconcern; Mr. Howard
was determined himself to explain the reason of his conduct, and not trust that
office to another. Perhaps he flattered himself that his friend Lady Gordon
would considerately allow him an interview with Emma untroubled by witnesses,
when he might have an opportunity of setting his own wishes in a clearer light
than he had hitherto had courage to do. But if he nourished such ideas, they
were of course doomed to an entire disappointment, for on arriving at the well
known sitting-room, he learnt, with infinite concern, that Emma was completely
invalided. "Quite unwell, and unfit for any exertion," Lady Gordon pronounced
her to be, and with so much fever about her that if the evening did not find her
better, medical advice must certainly be sent for. Sorrowfully, therefore, he
was compelled to take his leave, only cheered by the assurance that Lady Gordon
sympathised much in his anxieties, and that Emma would certainly do the same
whenever she could be allowed to learn them. The certainty that she would learn
the real reason that hurried him away was his greatest consolation, and in that
case she must forgive, and would probably pity him. He went—and Lord Osborne,
relieved from the immediate dread of such a rival, instantaneously resolved to
defer his own declaration until some indefinite and distant period, there being
not the least occasion to hurry, since any day previous to Howard's return would
be early enough for him. Emma's indisposition lasted several days, and was
probably rather increased than otherwise by the information which her attendant
gave her, that Mr. Howard was gone to Wales, for no one knew how long. She had
no one to whom she could communicate her feelings, and the disappointment was
all the more deeply felt from being dwelt on in secret. Lady Gordon possibly
guessed her sensations, but was too considerate to show it if she did, except
perhaps by an increased kindness of manner. She saw no one else of course except
the apothecary, who was by no means an entertaining man, and would bear no
comparison with her former acquaintance, Mr. Morgan. It was quite true what Lord
Osborne had mentioned, that his mother had talked of coming down to the Castle;
she, however, changed her mind and remained at Richmond instead; but Miss Carr
arrived on a visit, during the time of Emma's retirement in her own room, and
she once more commenced a series of attacks upon the young peer's affections,
which though extremely detrimental to his peace of mind, did not at all produce
the effect which she intended. Miss Carr began strongly to suspect that some
unseen obstacle must neutralize her efforts, and form a bar to her progress. She
could not believe he would be so impenetrable to her charms if there were no
other affection to shield his heart. She asked questions, considered, watched,
and came to the conclusion that Emma Watson, whose presence she had learnt with
surprise, was the individual who cast a malignant spell around her intended
victim, which enabled him to elude her best devices. She never for a moment
imagined that Emma herself could be insensible or regardless of his admiration;
what was a prize of such value to Miss Carr, must be a still greater object to
Miss Watson, and doubtless she was internally triumphing in her superior
attraction and success. No doubt, indeed, but this sprained ankle was a part of
her plan; all devised to make herself of importance, and excite his sympathy.
Something must be done to counteract such deep-laid schemes, and that
immediately too, or all exertion would be too late; but yet it must be
cautiously entered on, or she might only hurt her own cause. Fortunately for her
plans, she was possessed of a very unexpected means of assailing Emma. She had
been staying at Lady Fanny Allston's, her ladyship being her cousin, at the time
when the negotiation was carried on for the situation of governess, and had
learnt the exact reason why it had been so abruptly terminated. The scandal
which had thrown a shade over Emma's name at Croydon, would, on reaching her
ears have been passed as a thing deserving neither attention nor memory, but for
the incipient jealousy which even then she felt against her rival. This had
fixed it in her memory; and now she was determined to bring it forward in such a
way as to make it tell with best advantage in her own favor. She made no comment
when she heard that Emma was in the house; and bore, without remark and apparent
philosophy, the regrets of the whole party at her absence—only secretly
resolving to watch Lord Osborne well on her re-appearance, and ascertain the
state of his feelings from his looks and actions. The return of Emma Watson to
their usual party was hailed with great satisfaction by the family. She looked a
shade paler than usual, but otherwise, well and animated—for she had, on her
convalescence, learnt from her friend the exact reason of Mr. Howard's absence;
and satisfied that it was inevitable, and no desertion of her from choice or
caprice, she felt only uneasy for Mrs. Willis, not on her own account. Sir
William and his wife spoke their pleasure aloud; Lord Osborne only looked his in
public, but he seated himself next her at breakfast, and was extremely attentive
in supplying her plate with what he thought best. Miss Carr being late, missed
the rencounter—and by the same means, forfeited the seat at breakfast, which she
had always, hitherto, appropriated to herself. This vexed her; and when, on
entering the room, she saw Emma, she did not speak, but went coolly round the
table and seated herself precisely opposite. "Fanny," said Lady Gordon, "I
believe you are acquainted with my _friend_, Miss Watson—you met her here
before." Fanny bowed haughtily, which was the only answer she would, at first,
condescend to return; but after a moment's consideration, she said with
something like a sneer:

"Though it is some time since we met, Miss Watson, you will be surprised to
learn I have heard a great deal about you in the last three months." Emma did
look rather surprised, more, perhaps, at the tone in which this was said, than
by the fact; she did not know what she had done to give rise to such a look of
scorn or contempt. The next words enlightened her. "Lady Fanny Allston is my
relative—perhaps you did not know that, and I was there last April." Emma felt a
little confused at the many recollections which were connected with that
name—visions of Mr. Morgan and country-town gossip—unpleasant sensations and
unkind relations, flitted across her mind—but she looked up after a moment, and
conscious that she had been clear of blame in that transaction, and not quite
believing all Mr. Morgan had said on the subject, she replied:

"Then, there was much probability at one time, of our meeting. I suppose you
know what passed between her ladyship and me?" "Indeed I do," replied Miss Carr,
fixing her large, blue eyes on her with a malicious look; "and all about a
certain Mr. Morgan too—what a pleasant man he can be. I do not wonder at his
misleading girls in that way. Ah! you need not blush so—upon my word, I think
_you_ were almost excusable in your situation. I dare say, I might have been
tempted to do the same." Lord Osborne's eyes were turned from his plate of
broiled ham to Emma's face, with an earnest expression, which Miss Carr did not
fail to notice. There was awakened jealousy, and surprise, and something of
displeasure in his countenance as he looked at her—but who was the object of the
displeasure, she was not quite certain; she almost thought it was herself. Lady
Gordon looked up likewise. "Why, my dear Fanny," said she, "I fancy you have got
hold of some country-town gossip; I wonder you are not ashamed to repeat it." "I
certainly should disdain country-town gossip," repeated she, "what I was
alluding to, was an event which nearly concerned Lady Fanny, and which no doubt,
Miss Watson perfectly comprehends." "I beg your pardon," said Emma, "but indeed,
I do no such thing. If you allude to the fact of my employing Mr. Morgan as a
means of communicating with your relative, I have no idea any one could blame me
for such a proceeding, it seems so natural and straightforward." "I was not
thinking of your employing Mr. Morgan as a _negotiator_," replied Miss Carr with
emphasis, "it was very _friendly_ of him, no doubt, to interest himself in your
concerns; single men are often _friendly_ to young ladies." "And so are married
men too, I trust," cried Sir William, "at least I am; and, therefore, I
recommend you young ladies, both of you, to postpone your unintelligible
discussion on unknown topics, until such time as having no witnesses, you may be
able to converse in plain English, without figure of speech, or oratorical
hieroglyphics." Emma looked gratefully at Sir William for his interference; he
was always ready to stand her friend. Lord Osborne continued to look
thoughtfully and uneasily at her, between the intervals of replenishing his
mouth, or whilst stirring his coffee, but Emma felt not the slightest concern
about his feeling jealousy or any other emotion; he was extremely welcome to
fancy that she was desperately in love with Mr. Morgan or any other man in
Croydon—especially, as in that case, he would probably make some relaxation in
his devotion to her. As her ankle was not yet sufficiently strong for walking,
Lady Gordon proposed her taking a drive after luncheon in the pony phaeton, and
until that time, prescribed perfect rest on the sofa. This Emma acquiesced in
the more readily, as the post had brought her some peculiarly pleasant letters.
One was from Elizabeth, detailing many interesting particulars relative to the
preparations for her marriage, and some amusing anecdotes from the Croydon
circle, the other was still more calculated to please and excite her. It was
from Sam, and contained the agreeable information that a very good situation had
presented itself. It was to Penelope that he was indebted for the offer. Since
her marriage, she had been anxious to persuade her husband to give up his
practice, or at least to take a partner in his business, and now she had the
satisfaction of making an offer to Sam on such very advantageous terms, that he
could not hesitate a moment about accepting them. He was to remove to Chichester
next month, and though at first he was to live in his brother-in-law's house, if
the scheme answered, he was subsequently to have a house of his own, and then he
looked forward with delight to the idea that Emma could come and reside with
him. The prospect of this gave her courage and strength to support all the
disagreeable innuendoes which Miss Carr might throw out, and even to bear with
Lord Osborne's presence and Mr. Howard's absence. Settled at Chichester, it was
not likely that the former of these gentlemen would follow her for the purpose
of looking at her, or that the latter, if he wished to see her again, would have
any difficulty in tracing her steps. How happy she should be in her brother's
little _ménage_, even if she were never to see anything more of those whom she
had known whilst at Winston or Osborne Castle. She could fancy it all to
herself, and in her joyous answer, she drew a lively picture of the pleasure she
intended they should have together. Tired of the anxieties attending an
attachment which had not progressed very happily, she felt as if it would be
delightful to settle for life with her brother, and forswear all other and
deeper affection. If she could only make sure that he would never marry, it
would be all perfect; so she wrote to him, and her letter made Sam smile with
pleasure when he read it, and proved the best restorative after a toilsome day
in the heat of the summer, during a particularly unhealthy season. "William, as
I am going to drive with Emma, you must really ride out with Fanny Carr," said
Lady Gordon to her husband, before luncheon that morning. "She will expect
something of the sort." "Why can you not take her with you, my love?" enquired
he. "She is so very cross to-day, I do not know what is the matter with her,"
replied the lady, "and really I cannot undertake her, or we shall certainly
quarrel." "And so she is to be put off upon me, is she Rosa? I am much obliged
truly." "Oh yes, because you are so good tempered, you will be certain to bear
with her petulance, so do not refuse me," said the young wife with a look of
entreaty, which her husband could not resist. "Very well, I am resigned, pray
let Miss Carr know the felicity that awaits her; but I hope you will ask your
brother to accompany us." "I am sure neither Fanny nor I should make any
objection to that; but I do not think you will easily persuade him; he is shyer
of her than ever, and seems quite to detest her." "I do not wonder at it, any
man would dislike a girl who made such a desperate attack on him; I am sure I
should for one; I always liked you because you were so capricious and cross;
sometimes unkind, and always careless towards me." "You loved me purely out of
contradiction I have no doubt, and to hear your account, we must both have been
particularly amiable characters; but so long as you ride to-day with Fanny Carr,
I shall be satisfied." "And shall I obtain from her all the particulars about
which she was indulging in such edifying hints at breakfast—shall I enquire into
the particulars relative to Lady Fanny and Mr. Morgan?" "I dare say they would
not repay the trouble," replied Lady Gordon, "Fanny rather likes to say ill-
natured things; I do not attach much credit to her stories in general." "Upon my
word, Rosa, considering she is your very particular friend, I think you speak
very freely of her; I wonder whether you discuss my character with equal candour
and openness." "Yours—of course, why should you doubt it—but I think if there is
anything to explain, Emma will probably explain it herself—she is so
particularly open and straight-forward." "She is so, indeed; one of the most
amiable young women I know; don't be jealous, Rosa, but I like her very much."
Lady Gordon did not seem much troubled by jealousy, and so the affair was
settled. Miss Carr was very well pleased when she learnt what arrangement had
been made, and only required to make her perfectly happy to be secure of Lord
Osborne's company, as she had a most charming new riding hat, with a lovely
plume, which she was certain would make her look bewitching, and place her
beyond competition with Emma. Instead, however, of offering to accompany her,
his lordship began quarrelling with his sister about the arrangement she had
projected. Why was not Miss Watson to ride?—he was certain it would be much
better for her than being cooped up in a pony phaeton, where she would have no
room for her feet. In the saddle, as it was the right ankle which had been
sprained, she would have so much freedom, and he was certain she would enjoy it
extremely. Emma, however, protested against this arrangement; another day she
would be glad to try a ride, but not this morning; she was too weak, quite
unequal to such an exertion. Lord Osborne submitted, but said not a word of
himself accompanying Miss Carr; who, therefore, considered it a settled thing.
Accordingly, her new hat was arranged in the most becoming style—her long
ringlets drawn out to float on her shoulders, and her dainty figure set off to
the utmost by her tight fitting riding habit. But all in vain; Sir William was
the only cavalier who appeared to wait on her, and he being a married man, was
no good at all. She was very sulky, and Sir William had no other pleasure in his
ride, than such as he could derive for himself from air and exercise on a
beautiful day. Emma and Lady Gordon fared much better; the fresh air, after
confinement to one room, was delicious to the former; and, as her pleasure kept
her nearly silent, her companion was not troubled to make herself agreeable
either. They drove along, engrossed each by her own thoughts; Emma's wandering
down along each sunny glade or green alley in the forest, revelling in the
glorious pictures which presented themselves of ancient trees, and groups of
deer, sunshine and flickering shadows, deep pools sleeping under precipitous
banks tufted with fern and ivy, and crowned with feathery copse wood. The
scenery of Comus seemed exemplified, and she almost expected to see some
mysterious forms gliding under the shadows of the forest trees. Lady Gordon's
feelings were much more mundane, and more immediately connected with the
interests of life. She was reflecting on the visibly growing attachment of her
brother, and wondering what would be the result of it. At length she spoke.
"What shall I give you for your thoughts, Miss Watson? I am anxious, I own, to
know the subject of them." "I am thinking," said she, "what a lovely wood this
would be to rehearse Comus in; on such an afternoon as this—would it not be
effective?" "What a good idea!" cried Lady Gordon, all animation at the
proposal; "I should like it of all things! Suppose we try?" "With your present
company?" enquired Emma. "Yes; we should have quite enough—should we not? You
shall be the lady, and Fanny, Sabrina; I, the Spirit—Sir William, Comus, and
Osborne—let me see, we should want one other man. I suppose Mr. Howard would
take a part?" "Mr. Howard? oh, no! I should think not. I am sure he would not
like it!" "Well, well; any one could do the brother's part. I think it would be
exquisite. I am quite delighted with the idea." "Did you ever act, Lady Gordon?"
enquired Emma. "Never at all; but I am sure it must be delightful. I wonder
whether Sir William would make any objection?" "There would be some difficulties
in the way," observed Emma. "So much the better; difficulties to overcome give
one spirits. Here we would have our theatre,"—stopping the carriage and looking
round. "A marquee or something of the sort, and seats raised in a semi-circle—it
would be quite delightful, such a _fête champêtre_. I am certain we could manage
it; and the novelty of the thing would give it great _éclat_." "But, Lady
Gordon, if you talk in that way you will frighten me; I am certain I could not
act before an audience—I never tried any thing of the sort, except in the most
quiet way; amongst cousins and intimate friends, with nobody to look on, but my
uncle and aunt, and one or two old people, whom we were not afraid of. We did it
only for own amusement, without thinking of being looked at or producing an
effect; acting for the entertainment of a circle of people, must be such a very
different thing from acting for one's pleasure." "Very different, indeed; and I
should think much more agreeable; what would be the good of fine acting, if
there was nobody to see it, and none on whom it could produce any effect." "But
acting in itself, is so very amusing, like dancing—one does not dance to be
looked at, but for one's satisfaction; and it was the same with me in the only
acting I ever attempted. I forgot every thing but my part." "I dare say, you
acted very well," said Lady Gordon. "I liked it exceedingly," replied Emma. "I
cannot give up my plan, however;" continued Lady Gordon, "you have put it into
my head, but you will not find it easy to put it out again." Just, at this
moment, a turn of the road they were pursuing, brought Lord Osborne immediately
before them, leisurely sauntering along on his horse. He quickened his pace of
course, on perceiving the carriage, and was beside them immediately; with a look
of pleasure which was not lost upon his sister, who was always watching his
address to Emma. "So, I have had the good luck to meet you at last," exclaimed
he, "I was dreadfully afraid I should come upon the other couple, instead of
you, Rosa; and Fanny Carr looked so cross because I would not ride with her. I
do not think I shall face her again for a month. I wish girls would learn to
govern their tempers; they cannot always expect all the men to be scampering at
their heels, just when they want it." "You used her extremely ill, I must say,
in running away from her as you have done, and riding alone after all. I wonder
you are not ashamed of it," said his sister reproachfully. "I did not run away
from her; I waited till she was gone, and did not make up my mind until then,
whether I would ride or walk," was his reply. His sister then began, in the
warmth of her present feelings, trying to interest him in the plan they had been
talking of when he joined them. He did not know what Comus was, and as to acting
out in a wood, he was certain it would be much more convenient, agreeable, and
altogether safer to have the play in the house. He had no objection to acting at
all, if he could do it, but he did not think he could—however, he would try.
CHAPTER IX. Emma was not present when Lady Gordon made known her wishes on the
subject of acting to her husband; but in the dusk of the evening, as she was
sitting in the conservatory, she became aware, by a conversation she had with
Sir William Gordon, that the request had been made. He came to her, and placing
himself on a low stool at her feet, he began by telling her, in an under tone,

"I wish you had not put that idea into Rosa's head, Miss Watson, about acting: I
don't like it at all." "I am exceedingly sorry then," replied Emma; "but no
doubt Lady Gordon will readily give it up if you wish it." "I hate to contradict
her," said the husband; "ever since she has taken to doing as I wish when I ask,
I cannot bear to thwart her at all." "You seem to regret her complaisance, Sir
William; would you prefer having to reproach and quarrel with her?" "I feel much
more inclined to reproach and quarrel with you, Miss Watson. I begin to think
you are a dangerous companion for my wife. Who would have expected such a wild
scheme from you?" "Really I hardly know what to say to your reproaches, because
perhaps you may think I am trying to throw the blame from myself; but my idea
and Lady Gordon's plans were so totally different, that they hardly seem as if
they had the same origin. It was quite a vague notion on my part, suggested by
the beauty of the forest scenery, and certainly neither comprehending company
nor marquees, publicity nor expense." "You do not suppose, my dear Miss Watson,
that I meant seriously to blame you!" said Sir William half rising at her tone.
"Rosa explained to me all about it in reality. But now she has set her heart
upon the thing, I do not know what to do. She will never see any difficulties in
the way of her wishes, and her enthusiasm is the most difficult thing in the
world to resist. If she put herself in a passion about it, I should mind
opposing her a great deal less. What do you recommend, Miss Watson?" "Don't ask
me," said Emma; "I should probably advise something wild and unheard of—such as
either letting her have her own way, or putting a decided negative on the whole
affair at once." "I believe I must do that. It is so very unreasonable a plan;
in this country picnics and _fête-champêtres_ for ladies and gentlemen are
almost quite certain to end in rain, spoilt bonnets, wet feet, and bad colds;
besides, I do not approve of her acting, or yours, or any lady's, and shall
certainly not countenance it with my assistance. But Rosa did wish it so very
much, I am sure I shall not have the courage to refuse her." "You do injustice
to your own strength of mind and firmness of purpose, Sir William," said Emma
laughingly; "you can be as positive and decided as any one, when you please,
though you take so much credit to yourself for your amiable softness." "And you
recommend me to enforce my authority?" "And you expect me to give an opinion
between man and wife—one which would make you both my enemies; I am not quite so
wild as that!" "Did you see Osborne out riding to-day? I presume he went off
with you, as he would not come with us." "He overtook us," said Emma, "and rode
a little way with us; what a pretty horse he rides." "He wants you to mount
that—shall you have courage or strength to-morrow?" Emma rather demurred. "It is
very gentle, you need not be afraid, I know it well; but you need not do it if
you do not like. Have you been used to horse exercise?" "A year or two ago I
rode a great deal; but I have not made up my mind about accepting his offer yet,
even if he makes it." "Have you not?" said Sir William quickly; "you had better,
for it will certainly come, and it will be most convenient to know your own mind
on the subject." "Then I shall take the night to think of it, and be ready by
the morning; give me your advice, Sir William—which do you recommend, aye or
no?" "The affirmative, certainly; it will give me great pleasure to see you
added to our party, and to enjoy so much of your society." "How long have you
been studying such extremely complimentary speeches?" laughed Emma; "but
however, I cannot wait here for you to explain to me, as really it is time to
return to the drawing-room." "Let me assist you," exclaimed Sir William placing
her hand under his arm; "you are hardly yet strong enough to walk quite alone, I
am sure." "I must say, Rosa," said Miss Carr, to her friend the next day, "that
I think you are the most complaisant of wives—much more than I should be." "I am
glad you approve of me, Fanny. What particular good quality has excited your
admiration to-day?" "The calmness with which you look on and witness the
flirtation of your husband with that pretty Emma Watson. I wonder you like it,"
said Miss Carr, balancing her eye-glass on her chain between her two hands as
she spoke. "You give me more credit than I deserve a great deal, Fanny; I see
nothing of the sort, and, therefore, my complaisance and calmness are not
tried." "Why surely with half an eye any one may see how much they are
together—you cannot deny it." "No, or that you are likewise a great deal with
him," said Lady Gordon, calmly. "Or how much she talks to him," persisted Fanny.
"Not more than you do, I think," retorted her friend. "Were you aware of the
long interview they had last night in the dark in the conservatory? She was
sitting in the corner, and he almost leaning on her lap." "I am glad you put in
the _almost_, it makes an important difference, Fanny." "Do you know what they
were talking of, Rosa?" "No, do you?" "A great deal of it was complaints of you,
he was saying he could not manage you, and she was giving him advice on the
subject. Then they said a great deal more about another subject, which I shall
just tell you. You are of course aware that she intends to marry your brother."
"No, indeed, I am no such thing." "Well, she does, I assure you, I heard them
coolly canvassing the subject, he was recommending her to make up her mind as
Osborne would certainly make her an offer, and he said it would be inconvenient
to be in doubt when the proposal was made." "I am sure you must have very much
misunderstood, Fanny, for I cannot believe Sir William, or Miss Watson either,
were discussing any such subject. Nor can I at all comprehend how you came to
learn all that you detail to me—were they talking before you?" "No, not
exactly—they were in the conservatory, and so was I, but very likely they did
not see me." "I wonder you remained there then as a listener to their
conversation," said Lady Gordon, with an air of cool disdain. "How could I
suppose that your husband and your friend had any secrets to discuss, I am sure
such an idea never entered my head; and you take it so coolly, I really quite
admire you, Rosa." "I do not see anything to agitate myself about, Fanny, unless
you could persuade me to distrust my husband, a thing which I should conclude
can be no more in your wish than it is in your power." "I would not say anything
if I did not know that Emma Watson to be a dangerous flirt, one who is artful
and unscrupulous, and who made herself so conspicuous at Croydon that she was
obliged to leave the place." "How can you talk in that way, Fanny, I am
positively ashamed of you," exclaimed Lady Gordon, quite indignantly. "I assure
you, upon my word, I am saying nothing but the most positive truth," asseverated
Miss Carr, "I dare say she never told you anything about it, but I heard it all
when I was at Lady Allston's, and can tell you the whole history about it." "I
really have no wish to hear country-town gossip," replied Lady Gordon. Whilst
she was speaking Lord Osborne entered the room, and hearing her last words,
exclaimed,

"Ah, pray let us have it, Miss Carr: it would be a pity to defraud a young lady
of an opportunity of repeating a bit of scandal." "I think it only fair to tell
you, Rosa," continued Miss Carr, "fair to you, and equally so to your friend, if
it gives her the opportunity of explaining away the evil surmises set afloat
about her." "Oh, it's about Emma Watson you are gossiping," observed Lord
Osborne turning away; and taking up a newspaper, he threw himself into a chair,
and concealing his face behind the folio pages, he added, "Pray go on, and do
not mind me." "Well," said Miss Carr, "you know I dare say Miss Emma was left
without a farthing of her own, and quite dependent on her brother, who is a
shabby attorney at Croydon: this did not suit her—the wife was cross and mean,
like most attorneys' wives I suppose, and Emma is what is called very high-
spirited; and as they could not agree it was settled that Emma should go as
governess some where. Lady Fanny was just parting with hers, and who should be
recommended to her but my old acquaintance Emma Watson; I remembered the name
directly; was it not odd?" "Yes, rather," replied Lady Gordon, "because I know
you seldom remember what does not concern you. I cannot comprehend how all this
history became fixed in your mind, for really it seems of so little interest to
any but Emma's friends. I knew much of it before." "It amused me so much, to
think of the girl whom I remembered flirting at Osborne Castle, making her
appearance in a new character. But who do you think recommended her; my cousin's
doctor, Mr. Morgan!" Here Lord Osborne's newspaper rustled very much as he
changed the position of his elbows, and Fanny looked round. His face was still
invisible, so she had nothing to do but continue her narrative. "Now you must
know my cousin is in delicate health, nervous and excitable, and of course, like
all such ladies, takes the English substitute for a _cavalier-servante_, namely
a doctor. _Her_ doctor, this Mr. Morgan, is reckoned a very clever man, and so I
think he must be, for all ladies he attends, old and young, are, from half in
love, to the greatest extreme of the tender passion. I believe his character is
not quite _sans tache et sans reproche_, which decidedly renders him a more
interesting object; and his manners are so exceedingly devoted and tender, that
really I felt inclined to fall ill, that I might be attended by him. He proposed
Emma Watson as governess, recommended her highly, and carried on the negotiation
very successfully, when somehow or other, my cousin took alarm about the
extraordinary interest of his manner, and having discovered that Emma was
reckoned handsome, began to think it would not do. However, as she is very kind
and candid, she would not condemn her without some enquiry; she has some
inferior acquaintance in the town—I used to wonder why she kept them up—some old
young ladies, great gossips; but I have found out now the use of them: when she
wants a cook, or a nurse, or a governess, or a tiresome piece of work done, or a
charitable collection made in her name, she turns over all the trouble to these
Miss Jenkins or some such name, (one cannot recollect their plebeian
denominations,) and they are only too proud and happy to fuss about for dear
Lady Fanny, who in return invites them sometimes to tea, and asks her governess
to meet them. Well, these amiable and obliging virgins were quite scandalized
that the dear Lady Fanny should have been so nearly led into a grievous scrape
by hiring the said Emma Watson, who besides sundry other offences, had been
guilty of carrying on a very discreditable acquaintance with this very Mr.
Morgan. Clandestine meetings, and private conversations in dark rooms, long
walks in solitary lanes, and all that sort of thing. Now he is certainly not a
man to be trusted in any other capacity than a doctor—nobody has a word to say
against him in that particular—but certainly not the man to be safe in a _tête-
à-tête_ with a girl he admired—at least so far as her character was concerned;
and Lady Fanny, quite scandalized, settled the matter at once by an instant
rupture of the negotiation. I dare say," added the narrator laughing, "she did
not want a rival so near her own person." "And that is your narrative, is it?"
said Lady Gordon; "it seems to me to reflect much more discredit on your cousin
than on my friend." "Upon my word, Rosa, you are rather free in your remarks on
my relatives," exclaimed Fanny very indignantly. "I beg your pardon; _I_ have
not complained of what you have been saying of my friend and guest." "But what
is there remarkable in Lady Fanny's proceedings to strike you with wonder? I
think it was quite natural; setting aside any jealousy of Emma, she was surely
right not to bring into her house, as governess to her daughter, a girl who had
anything like a slur on her character." "Excuse my saying that if Lady Fanny did
not object to employing the man in question as a physician, she had no right to
take umbrage if another permitted him as a companion." "But I understood there
was something quite improper in the way in which she commenced and carried on
the acquaintance—quite clandestine and against her sister's known opinion. In
fact, the whole affair was so shocking that no one would speak to Emma at
Croydon, and she was obliged to leave the town in disgrace. In short, her
reputation there was completely _mise en pièce_." "I am perfectly persuaded,"
replied Lady Gordon, "that you have been exceedingly deceived in this affair. As
to believing Emma Watson guilty of anything deserving censure, I cannot until it
is proved." "I should have thought my authority good enough," said Miss Carr.
"You speak only on hear-say evidence, Fanny: you heard from Lady Fanny what was
told her by certain professed gossips, who must either have been acting as spies
themselves, or have been the collectors and bearers of the slanders of other
individuals. No, there is no authority for your assertions—no testimony which
would stand in a court of justice." "You are determined neither to see nor
understand, Rosa, or you could not talk in that, way," retorted Fanny quite
angrily. "We shall never agree, so we had better not discuss the subject
further," replied Lady Gordon, "suppose we go to luncheon." The riding party had
again been under discussion, and it was decided that they should all five take
an excursion on horse-back, Emma being to mount the quiet and gentle animal so
strongly recommended by Sir William Gordon. Just as they were starting, their
party was joined by another young man, a neighbour, who was coming to pay a
morning visit, and whom Lady Gordon invited to accompany them. Whether for the
sake of a fresh object, or in hopes of pique by contrast, or from some other
cause unknown, Miss Carr fastened on him as a victim, and wherever the width of
the road required a division, they two kept side by side. This was a peculiarly
agreeable arrangement to the others, as allowing of two conversations deeply
interesting to some of the parties at least. Lady Gordon wanted to have a
private conference with her husband, on the subject which Miss Carr had been
discussing, and she took this opportunity of belonging to a party of six to
commence it. She told him everything straight-forward, from the accusation of a
flirtation with him, down to the asserted loss of character. Sir William heard
her gravely, and with fixed attention, without interrupting her eloquent
narrative by a remark or a question. She concluded her story before he opened
his lips, and then turning full towards her, he enquired:

"Well, and have you determined to turn her out of the house?" "I really feel
much inclined to do so, I assure you, the attempt to make dissension between us
is so unpardonable." "You should first be quite convinced that the attempt has
been made," said Sir William very coolly. "My dear William, what else can you
call her accusation that Emma flirted with you? She could not make me jealous,
but it was most ill-natured of her to say so; for were the scandal to come to
Emma's ears, it would of course make her very uncomfortable." "I beg your
pardon, Rosa," replied her husband with a smile, "we were speaking of different
individuals; you, I presume, understood my question as applying to Miss Carr,
whilst I really referred to Miss Watson, and I own your answer rather surprised
me." "So it well might. Could you suppose me capable of resenting to Emma what
Fanny might say. I thought you would have known me better. I shall take no
notice of all the Croydon scandal, except by being kinder to poor Emma, and as
to yourself, I must beg you will do so too. Talk to her, walk with her as much
as you like, I am not afraid for either of you." Sir William's eyes expressed
far more than his brief answer seemed to convey, she could read their language,
and therefore—"Thank you, I hope we shall neither of us abuse your confidence!
"—was quite satisfactory to her. In the meantime Lord Osborne was compelling
Emma to undergo a catechism, the purpose of which she could not comprehend. He
began by enquiring where she had been staying previous to her visit to his
sister, made himself quite master of the connection of Miss Bridge with Croydon,
and ascertained that Mr. Bridge was a friend of hers. He then informed himself
whether she had any relatives still in the town, learnt with evident
satisfaction that her eldest sister, whom he remembered, was still there, and
also that her brother was settled in the place. Emma even told him that her
sister was speedily to be married to a very respectable brewer in the town,
quite heedless whether such a piece of information was likely to invalidate her
claims on his regard. He seemed exceedingly well pleased with the result of his
investigation, but no explanation followed as to the object of all his
enquiries. As she thought one was certainly her due, she at length took the step
of asking to what all these questions tended, if she might make so bold as to
demand it. He hesitated a good deal, and then said flatly he should not tell
her, so it was no use her asking him; at least now, though she would very likely
know it by and bye; he then added in a confidential tone, that he was going to
leave home for a short time; but that he hoped in a few days to return to her
with pleasure. She could not compliment him by pretending to be sorry at his
departure, as she really cared very little about it; but she enquired, by way of
making some kind of answer, whether his sister was acquainted with his plans. He
told her she was not yet, but that he intended to tell her the first
opportunity, as he had not yet had time to tell her, his project had been so
suddenly formed; it originated solely in some news he had heard that morning.
Emma was too indifferent about him, to feel any curiosity as to the reason of
his journey or its object—for she little suspected that it nearly concerned
herself; the fact being that, in consequence of the scandal that Fanny Carr had
repeated in the morning, he had resolved to go over to Croydon and exert himself
to trace and confute, what he was certain were only base calumnies, and when he
had succeeded in triumphantly proving her innocence, he meant to lay at her feet
his title and his fortune. He was perfectly delighted at the prospect of proving
his devotion to her by this piece of knight-errantry,—which, he flattered
himself, would render him quite irresistible in her eyes; indeed, he had serious
thoughts, if the original fabricator of these lies was a man, of challenging
him—a step which he firmly believed would not fail to secure the heart of any
woman, for whom the duel was fought. His ideas on this subject were rather
derived from the old-fashioned novels, where the hero invariably fights at least
three duels, to clear the character of his lady-love. Very soon after imparting
this information to Emma, there came a division in the party; Lady Gordon having
persuaded her husband to change places with her brother for several reasons. One
of the motives that actuated her, was a wish to converse with Lord Osborne on
the reports relative to Emma, and learn what he thought of Miss Carr's stories.
But she rather wished likewise to separate him from Emma—with whom she thought
he had been enjoying too long a _tête-à-tête_; and she was, moreover, determined
to prove the entire absence of all jealousy as a wife, notwithstanding the
insinuations of her friend. Emma was always pleased with Sir William's company
and conversation, and enjoyed this part of her ride much more than the first.
She had the pleasant conviction in her mind that Sir William liked her; a
feeling which made their intercourse very agreeable—and, as to the scandal which
Miss Carr had tried to insinuate on that subject—she was so perfectly ignorant
of it, that it never occurred to her that an exception to their being together
could possibly be taken. All Lady Gordon's eloquence and persuasive
powers—seconded by the strongest curiosity, failed to draw from her brother an
acknowledgement of his purpose in leaving home, or a definite opinion as to his
belief, or otherwise, in Miss Carr's stories. On this subject, indeed, he was
particularly impracticable, only exclaiming—

"Pshaw! don't ask me, Rosa, about any thing she says—you know I never listen to
her." One thing which greatly excited her curiosity, was the manner of her
brother's journey; she had questioned him as to how he intended to travel, and
he only told her to guess. In vain she attempted to do so. His carriages were
all enumerated in vain—his horses, his servants, were not to accompany him; she
concluded that he must be going on foot, and the object of his journey became
more mysterious than ever. He piqued himself on his discretion, and was
delighted to torment her, until she was obliged to own herself fairly puzzled,
and then he told her to console her—"Time would show." In fact Lord Osborne left
the Castle the next morning in a gig, with a single attendant, who only
accompanied him a couple of miles, and then returned home, leaving his lordship
and his portmanteau at a small road-side public house. Further than this,
nothing was to be extracted by the most adroit questioning of Lady Gordon's
woman, who well knew how curious her mistress was on the subject. But although
his expedition was a secret to his relatives and friends, it is none to the
reader, and we shall, therefore, without ceremony leave him at the public-house
in question, until the stage-coach through Croydon passed, and picking him up
transported him the rest of the journey. CHAPTER X. The party left at the
Castle, was too ill-suited to be particularly agreeable, and Sir William now and
then privately complained to his wife of the dead weight which Miss Carr was in
society where there were no young men present. She had so little conversation
besides scandal, and so little occupation of any kind, that Sir William was
extremely weary of her. She sometimes played a little on the harp, but she never
did that with perseverance, or anything else at all. Her father had never
allowed her to learn any species of needle-work, which in some shape or other
forms the universal occupation and resource of women, because, he said, there
were so many unfortunates who were compelled to earn their bread in that way,
that it was unfair to take it out of their hands. With no taste for anything but
the lightest species of literature, a novel was her only quiet resource, and in
the country it was difficult in those days to procure a sufficient supply of new
novels. Lady Gordon could only listen patiently to her husband's complaints; she
did not know when Fanny and her foibles would remove; nor could she at all
foretell when Lord Osborne and her spirits would return, though pretty well
aware that they would re-appear together. The only resource she could suggest
was arranging a small party for a dance or some such amusement, as she had never
said another word about the acting, which at one time had so occupied her mind.
This would give her friend something to think of and amuse herself with, as she
might arrange a new dress for the occasion; nay, if Lady Gordon could only unite
a daylight and an evening party in one, she might have the happiness of
preparing two dresses at least. The prospect of such a pleasure revived Miss
Carr, and she awoke to a full sense of the responsibilities of life, when so
important a thing as a _fête_ was in progress. Of what nature should it be, was
the question, and one which occasioned as much amusement as could be hoped from
the actual party. They had a great many different plans in their heads; fancy
dresses—historical characters—costumes from the old family portraits in the
picture-gallery, were all discussed with much warmth and animation. But every
one of these proposals had so many objections attached to it. The difficulty of
getting other individuals to enter into their views, and the impossibility of
those unaccustomed to such scenes entering into them at all, were all suggested
as impediments by Sir William, who had no fancy for any of their plans, and it
ended in a much more simple arrangement. A collation in a _marquée_, in some
romantic part of the park, bands of music stationed in favorable situations, to
entertain them whilst eating; and the beauties of the glen, the echo, and the
waterfall within a distance favorable for a walk, to amuse them afterwards. Then
there might be the return to the Castle in the evening, and a dance afterwards,
which would finish the day's pleasure, and afford a proper proportion of fatigue
to all. To settle on a picturesque costume for this occasion, became now the
pre-eminent object of Fanny Carr's thoughts. Emma herself was under no
uneasiness on that point, as Lady Gordon had taken the occasion to present her
with a suitable and elegant dress, on the plea of making some compensation for
the awkwardness of her brother on the occasion of the last ball at Osborne
Castle. Lord Osborne's return was delayed from day to day, by his finding more
difficulty in his undertaking than he had expected; but as the course of his
pursuit led him to London, he wrote from thence to his sister and gave her
reason to expect to see him again before the _fête_ day arrived. This was a
relief to Miss Carr's mind, for although desirous of universal admiration, she
was peculiarly anxious for his special attention and regard. Fortunately for her
she was gratified; as she was sitting in Lady Gordon's dressing-room the day
preceding that for universal happiness, busily engaged in twining a delicate
wreath to deck her hair on the festive night, Lord Osborne marched into the
room, and suddenly laid down before her a packet of papers, which he was
carrying in his hand. She gave a great jump and a little scream, exclaimed at
his abrupt entrance, and enquired playfully if he meant to frighten her out of
her senses. He replied quietly:

"Not in the least, but he knew there was no danger of that, as her nerves were
sufficiently strong to bear a much greater shock." But what in the world were
those papers he had placed before her? what was she to do with them? He told her
to read them and they would gratify her exceedingly. "What on earth are they?"
said she, unfolding the packet—"'Testimonials—Miss Emma Watson—Rev. John
Bridge—Barbara Bridge—Lucy Jenkins—Eliza Lamb—'good heavens! what is the meaning
of all this, my lord—are you trying to make a fool of me?" "No, Miss Carr, I am
only trying to prevent your making a fool of yourself," answered he with perfect
self-possession. "I really am excessively obliged to you. I did not know I was
in danger of such a catastrophe, or that I was likely to be indebted in that
respect to your lordship's deep intellect, and brilliant genius. Pray may I ask
the meaning of all this, for really at present my folly is too profound to allow
me to reach the pinnacle of comprehension." "You remember, Miss Carr," said Lord
Osborne gravely, "those slanderous tales against Miss Watson, which you were
pleased to repeat the day before I left this place." "Yes, I remember saying
something which indeed I am certain could be proved to a fraction. If you think
I repeat things without a foundation, you are very much mistaken indeed. I
assure you I am excessively careful of what I say, and never dream of giving
circulation to unfounded reports, or—"

"I am excessively glad to hear it—I hope you never will—I listened to you then
without speaking, I must beg you will do so now to me. Feeling perfectly sure,
as I did, that your tale was untrue; I have been to Croydon—and, without
troubling you with a long detail of the trouble I have taken, I shall just make
a short story of it at once, by saying that the result is, that Emma Watson's
character is perfectly clear." "I am sure then, my lord, that Emma Watson
herself must be excessively obliged to you; but really, excuse me for asking
what is all this to me!" "It's no use your attempting to deny it, Miss Carr, it
convicts you at once of the very unpleasant and disagreeable fault of repeating
slanderous reports. I hope it will serve as a warning to you to prevent such
wickedness again." "Upon my word, my lord, your Quixotism surpasses all ordinary
bounds—do tell me what you will do next? Riding about the country one day to
exculpate a girl who can be nothing to you, beyond a common acquaintance, and
then sitting down to preach lectures to me, without fee or reward for it; I do
not know how sufficiently to honour such exemplary greatness of mind." "You are
welcome to your wit and your eloquence, Miss Carr; I have neither wish nor
pretension to equal you in the flow of words; but you cannot, even if you take
the most round about form of expression possible, deny that you have been quite
wrong in the whole affair." "I am amazingly flattered by the extremely
complimentary turn which your conversation takes, Lord Osborne. You seem to have
benefitted by the superior style of society with which you must have associated
at Croydon; really, your sister will hardly know you again. May I venture to
enquire whether you have confided to the fair Emma—the heroic devotion and the
extraordinary exertions to which she has inspired you?" Lord Osborne, who was
looking over the packet of papers which Miss Carr had tossed contemptuously back
on the table, neither answered nor looked up; and the sudden entrance of Lady
Gordon, prevented any further acrimony on the part of the young lady—who, as
soon as she recovered her temper, became very sorry that she had spoken as she
did, whilst under the influence of vexation and shame. Lady Gordon appeared very
glad to see her brother; though she declared she had always felt certain that he
would return in time for her _fête_—she always had such good luck at her _fête_.
Her astonishment was extreme when she learnt the end and object of his journey;
and she certainly felt, besides astonishment, a considerable portion of secret
annoyance, that he should have been sufficiently under the influence of
partiality for Emma, to be roused to such an exertion. She, who knew him well,
was aware how very strong must have been the feeling of interest which could
incite him to undertake and carry through a task repulsive to all his former
habits and tastes. It marked a very decided love indeed; and Rosa lamented the
existence of such a partiality, even whilst rejoicing that its results were so
favorable to the reputation of her friend. But, on the whole, she was growing
more reasonable than formerly—like all women who love their husbands, she was
adopting her husband's opinions, and beginning to think that Emma would be no
disgrace to the peerage, were she ever to become a member of it; but that her
brother's chance of winning her being small, his affection would not be
conducive to his happiness. The astonishing degree of warmth he had manifested
on the present occasion, shewed the state of his mind; but as for Emma herself,
if she had read her feelings rightly, they were in favor of another object. Lord
Osborne detailed to his sister the whole history of his exertions. He had gone
to Croydon quite incognito—had established himself very quietly at the principal
inn, and after bespeaking a dinner, walked down to call on the Vicar. To him he
had detailed his object, and asked his advice, giving, as a reason for the
interference of an unconnected individual like himself, the peculiar intimacy
which existed between his sister and the young lady in question. Mr. Bridge had
entered most kindly and warmly into his views, had pointed out the course he
thought best, and made Robert Watson and his wife own that Emma had remonstrated
against being exposed to meeting Mr. Morgan out walking, and that she had made
no secret of the occurrence. It was not without great difficulty and adroit
arguments that he had brought Jane to acknowledge the truth on this subject;
only by representations of the necessity of clearing her own character, which
she could do, by admitting, as Mr. Bridge knew was the case, that she had
yielded to her sister's persuasions, and in consequence of them had abstained
from sending Emma out with her little girl. Having thus cleared Emma from the
imputation of there being anything clandestine or intentional in her meetings
with the doctor, a fact which the eldest Miss Watson could also corroborate, his
next step was to see Lady Fanny Allston and learn from her who had been her
authority for the slander to which she had yielded. Her ladyship was in town,
but Lord Osborne, not to be baffled by such a circumstance, set off after her,
and without waste of time presented himself in her drawing-room in London. On
his first application her ladyship denied all recollection of the circumstance,
there were so many young women who applied for the situation of governess to
Miss Allston, that she could not be expected to remember any of them after the
lapse of so long a time as three or four months. But he was not to be so put
off, and took so much trouble to remind her of the circumstances, that she was
at last forced to admit that she could recal something about it. When in
consequence he pressed for her authorities on the occasion, she laughed
excessively at his heroic exertions in a cause which could not concern him in
the least. What possible motive could he have she observed, for interesting
himself in a girl whose state and circumstances were so obscure. A girl who was
forced to go out as governess, what could he know about her—what ought he to
know about her—a mere country-parson's daughter, without fortune or connections,
it was ridiculous of him to be tearing about the country to vindicate her from a
little country-gossip. His lordship must excuse her laughing at him for his
knight errantry, but what mattered it whether the said Emma Watson had flirted
with the doctor of Croydon or not, or who had said that she had, if she had not.
It appeared as if Lord Osborne's character had been totally changed under the
influence of Emma's charms, or the excitement of his pursuit; indeed he owned to
his sister it was as animating as a fox-chase, and that he enjoyed hunting up
scandal-mongers excessively. Lady Fanny's ridicule, from which formerly he might
have shrunk, could not now move him from his object. He answered her quietly,
that the character of every individual was of value to them, and the more so in
proportion to the less of wealth or importance they had. Her ladyship might,
without scruple, forfeit her reputation for integrity, honour and justice, if
she chose, by refusing what he asked, and thus robbing Miss Watson; and that the
world, seeing she _was_ Lady Fanny still, might consider it no great matter; but
the case was very different with his sister's friend, who as Lady Fanny justly
observed, had neither friends, rank nor fortune to gloss over the calumny, or
support her through right and wrong, and who it was possible might depend on her
character for her subsistence. But seeing that she _was_ his sister's friend,
and at this moment her guest, he was determined to see justice done to her, both
for her own and his sister's sake; he therefore called on Lady Fanny, if she did
not wish to be considered the fabricator of the false report herself, to
acknowledge who was the author of it—for false it certainly was, as he had other
means of proving. After some attempts at prevarication, she at length owned that
she had learnt the circumstances from Miss Jenkins, and she even at last
produced and gave up to him the identical letter to herself which contained the
whole tale, with a variety of circumstances which it was evident to any
unprejudiced observer must have been entirely invention, as no one could have
been witness to them, by the writer's own showing. Armed with this document,
Lord Osborne had returned to Croydon and laid the paper before Mr. Bridge. That
gentleman, delighted at having reduced the accusations to a form so easily
combated, had agreed that they should go together, and compel Miss Jenkins to
retract her assertions. They had called on her, and at first met only with
impertinence and prevarication. She did not know who Lord Osborne was, and would
not allow his right, or that of Mr. Bridge, to question her conduct. Supposing
his lordship to be only one of Emma's relations, and as such deserving no
particular consideration or courtesy, she did not scruple to behave with the
insolence and neglect with which underbred people consider themselves entitled
to treat their inferiors. Of course her confusion was extreme when she found, to
her astonishment, that it was a baron whom she had scornfully answered, and whom
she had scarcely condescended to ask to seat himself. She fell, on this
discovery, into a prodigious fit of agitation and flutter, protested that she
was perfectly ashamed of herself—quite shocked his lordship should have been
treated so—would not his lordship move nearer the fire—would he not take a more
comfortable chair. She hoped his lordship would not refuse a glass of wine or a
little cake; was he quite sure that he did not sit in a draft—the corner of the
sofa and a foot-stool would be much better for him. Lord Osborne very
positively, and rather abruptly, declined all her attentions, declaring that he
wished for nothing better than his present situation, nor desired anything else
from Miss Jenkins than the fulfilment of the particular object of their
visit—the declaration what authority she had for her assertions regarding Emma
Watson. She now attempted to deny that she had ever said anything at all
injurious to Miss Emma Watson's character; it was quite impossible that she
should—she had the highest regard for the young lady in question, and must have
for any one whom she knew to be the intimate friend of Lady Gordon, and about
whom his lordship was so kind as to interest himself. She never could have been
guilty of any unjust reflections on such a person, and it must be an entire
mistake of Lady Fanny Allston's if she imagined anything to the contrary. With
the greatest self-possession Lord Osborne listened to her assertions, and then
producing the letter and laying it before her, said he was exceedingly concerned
to be compelled to disprove the assertions of a lady, but really her present
words were so contrary to her former opinions as recorded on that paper, that he
must beg to revive her memory on the subject. Would she be so kind as to look
over the accusations which that letter brought against Miss Watson, and let them
know how much of it was false, and what part, if any, was true; and how she
became possessed of the knowledge which she had there set down. Miss Jenkins
looked a little confused on seeing her own writing brought to witness against
her, but not nearly so much so, as she had done when she found she had allowed a
peer of the realm to seat himself so near the door. However, she set herself to
work resolutely to deny all she had written; she could not imagine how she had
ever made such assertions, she could recollect nothing about it; it was most
strange, most extraordinary, most wonderful, most incomprehensible that she
should have written such things, she could not believe it possible: she even
seemed to expect that they would be so complaisant as to disbelieve it likewise.
Miss Lamb had been with her when she wrote the letter, it must have been on her
authority that she had made these extraordinary statements. In short she was
perfectly ready to contradict them entirely now, and to sign any statement which
Lord Osborne would please to suggest; such was her respect for Miss Emma Watson,
she was sure she could never speak of her in terms too high. With great
satisfaction, but unutterable contempt, Lord Osborne compelled her to retract
every particular which she had formerly stated, and after agreeing that one copy
of her present deposition should be sent to Lady Fanny Allston, they decided to
continue their investigation by a reference to Miss Lamb, who was accused of
being her fellow-conspirator on the past occasion. Miss Lamb was a very
different person from Miss Jenkins; cold and repulsive in her manners, and
sparing of her words, she hardly deigned even to justify herself. She did
condescend, however, so far as to say, that she had had nothing at all to do in
the most distant degree with the affair in question, either by word or deed;
though on being cross-questioned she admitted she had seen the letter which Miss
Jenkins had sent to Lady Fanny; she had indeed been sitting by whilst it was in
the course of composition; but she denied entirely having assisted her companion
in any way, excepting in spelling and grammar, points in which she sarcastically
observed her friend occasionally needed help. As to her requiring assistance or
suggestion beyond her own imagination, where anything ill-natured was in
question, that was quite unnecessary as everybody acquainted with Miss Jenkins's
taste for gossip must be aware. She had such a superfluity of invention on all
such matters as could be equalled by few ladies in Croydon. She, Miss Lamb, knew
she had watched Emma closely, and discovered that Mr. Morgan had joined her
occasionally when out walking, and this was quite enough to form the foundation
of any little scandalous romance which she thought might look well, or be
agreeable and amusing to Lady Fanny. For her own part, she knew no harm at all
of Emma Watson, and she hoped that after this statement she should have no
further trouble in the matter, as she was going out, and did not wish to be
detained. Thus their interview terminated; and Lord Osborne perfectly satisfied
with his success so far, having shown the declarations of these two young ladies
to Mr. Watson, and his wife, once more repaired to London, to learn what Lady
Fanny thought of the paper he had sent her. Her ladyship this time was ill-used
and hysterical, sobbing over the depravity of human nature, which had led Miss
Jenkins wickedly to invent such tales, and thereby greatly to deceive and
incommode her ladyship; preventing her obtaining a desirable governess to her
great inconvenience, and exposing her moreover to much trouble, anxiety, and
other evils, endangering her reputation for veracity, and threatening to place
her in a ridiculous position. Lord Osborne could not help perceiving the
absurdity and selfishness of her lamentations, but he let her go on as she
would, so long as she agreed to sign an admission that she had been misled. He
would not, however, make her the promise which she requested from him, that he
would use his influence with this very charming young person to undertake the
situation from which she had previously been so scornfully repulsed; he gravely
observed he did not think it was any business of his, and that he could not
interfere in her private arrangements. Lady Fanny, smitten with a vehement
desire to become the patroness of the slandered Emma, determined, she said, to
write and renew her proposals. He made no objection, though perfectly determined
that proposals from himself, and of a different nature should if possible
precede hers. This resolution of his own he did not detail to his sister, nor
did he communicate another circumstance which had occurred, namely that he had,
whilst in London, sought an interview with his mother, whom he found deeply
engrossed in a flirtation with a young colonel of the guards. He did not like
the young fellow's appearance at all, nor the air of being at home which he
assumed, but on his taking leave a still more unpleasant scene had occurred. His
mother had enquired if Howard were still at the Castle, and on her son
mentioning where he was, but adding that he hoped soon to remove him to a better
living, her ladyship had broken out into the most violent opposition to this
plan. Lord Osborne had just learnt that the incumbent of another living, to
which he had the right of presentation, a very old man, was in a state of
health, which would in all probability speedily terminate in death, and he was
perfectly determined to give it, immediately it fell vacant, to his former
tutor. He felt that in every respect this would be a most desirable
circumstance, and had not the present incumbent so opportunely fallen sick, he
should certainly have attempted to negotiate some other exchange which would
have promised a speedy removal. Why Lady Osborne should so resolutely set
herself against it, he could not imagine; her feelings towards Howard he could
not understand, unless in case of a suspicion which occurred to him proving
correct, that the clergyman had refused the baron's widow. She who used to be so
friendly and favourable to him, now indulged in feelings apparently of hatred
and enmity. She evidently wished to injure him, wished to hinder any improvement
in his circumstances, wished to prejudice her son against him. He thought his
mother hardly in her senses on this subject, so extremely bitter and
unreasonable her sentiments appeared. Her indignation passed all bounds when she
found him perfectly unpersuadable on this point. His object in wishing to remove
Mr. Howard was quite as potent as hers in wishing to torment him, and his
obstinacy in following his own opinion at least as great; there was therefore no
chance of their coming to any agreement, and they parted on very bad terms. Now
when his tale was done, he was ready to sit and listen to his sister's plans and
designs for to-morrow, ready to encourage her with hopes of a fine day, and
still more ready to anticipate much intercourse with Emma Watson. He determined
to seize some opportunity during the approaching fête to make known his
sentiments, and ask her hand. His courage felt quite high: he had been so
successful in this undertaking at Croydon that he began to think he must have
quite a winning way with women, and thoughts, complimentary to himself, which
had never before entered his brain, began now to bud and grow, and rapidly
increase within him. CHAPTER XI. The morning opened in a way as promising to
Lady Gordon's plans as could be desired; bright and serene; a gentle air, not
strong enough to wave the flag upon the Castle turrets, rustled amongst the
forest trees; a deep blue sky, a cloudless sun, and the mist upon distant
objects which accompanies heat in this country, all promised everything most
charming. The whole party were in high spirits, and when, after their breakfast,
the ladies had put the finishing stroke to their toilettes, any unprejudiced
observer must have admitted that they all three looked very captivating in their
several ways. Lady Gordon anxious to be on the appointed spot previous to the
arrival of any of the guests, soon started from the Castle, and the two young
ladies accompanied her. The scene which had been chosen looked very lovely
certainly, and the marquees and trees in its vicinity, festooned with flowers,
and ornamented in many dainty devices, had a most tasteful air; but Emma could
not help thinking that the forest glade in its natural state would have been
more taste picturesque, and to her far more enchanting, than with the gay flags
and ornaments which now decked it. She thought of the ages which had passed over
those lordly trees; the generations of fair faces, which had perhaps strolled
beneath them; the histories of happy or of broken hearts, which, could they but
be known, would read so many a moral lesson to herself. They looked so very old,
those huge spreading trees, with their giant trunks and wide extending branches;
she quite felt respect for such stability and strength. Their boughs had
probably waved

"O'er manhood's noble head,      O'er youth's bright locks, and beauty's flowery
crown." and now another generation was to meet beneath them, and how many gay,
thoughtless hearts, would they this day shade. They had not been long enough
there for Miss Carr to be very tired of waiting, nor for Emma to be at all
anxious for a change of scene, when the company began to arrive, and she had
other amusement and occupation. It was a very large assembly, and every one came
prepared to enjoy themselves, convinced that what Lady Gordon did must be
wittiest and most fashionable, if not

"Wisest, discreetest, virtuousest, best." The band played, the sun shone, the
green trees waved in the breeze, the silks and muslins fluttered, fair checks
reddened, bright eyes glanced, sweet lips smiled, fairy forms flitted about,
everything was elegant, lively, agreeable—any thing but pastoral, not at all in
the fashion of an old French print of a Louis Quartorze fête champêtre. There
were no mock shepherdesses, with powdered heads and crooks in their hands; no
badly supported and out of character costumes; people came to act no part but
that of lively, and if they could be, lovely English ladies, in the most
fashionable gowns, meeting well-bred, well-dressed, well-intentioned English
gentlemen. There were smiles, and flattery, and flirtations, and a little
affectation, and some small share of folly; but on the whole, it was an
extremely elegant and well-satisfied party, and every one was ready to tell
every one else how excessively pleasant it was, and how much more they preferred
these delightful, unformal parties, to the more usual, but less exciting, in-
door assemblies. To those who loved good eating and drinking, it could not fail
of being an agreeable re-union, for "the feast provided, combined," the
newspapers said on the occasion, "every delicacy of the season, which an out
door repast would admit of, in profusion, and the hospitable and liberal-minded
hosts were truly delighted to press on their nowise reluctant guests, the
choicest viands and the most refreshing products of the vineyards." In reallity,
there was a great deal of pleasure afforded on the occasion, and if there were
some dissatisfied minds, it may be concluded that they were those, who under no
circumstances were likely to be pleased. Among the discontented was Margaret
Musgrove, who came over with a friend, in that friend's carriage, her husband
driving the brother of this lady, as he preferred anything to accompanying his
wife. After their arrival, he attached himself to this friend, and carried on
with her a very tender flirtation. Mrs. Harding Russell was a fine, dashing
woman, who very much enjoyed a flirtation with her friend's husband, and was
delighted to make herself conspicuous, and the wife uncomfortable. Margaret
would not have minded, had the brother been inclined to assist her in paying her
husband off—but this was not the case, he was a man's companion, not a woman's,
and never troubled himself to flirt at all. Margaret for some time formed a very
inharmonious third to the otherwise lively duet which was performing between Tom
and Mrs. Harding Russell, whose company made her perfectly miserable; but at
length she succeeded in securing as a companion one of her former acquaintances,
who though he had long ago ceased to care for Margaret Watson, had no objection,
_faute de mieux_, to make himself agreeable to Mrs. Tom Musgrove. When the
greatest portion of the visitors was assembled, at a given signal, the sides of
the largest marquee were opened, and every one was invited to the collation.
Amidst the throng and pressure of this occasion, Emma found herself within a
short distance of her brother-in-law and his friend, and an unavoidable hearer
of their conversation. Mr. Corbet was enquiring—

"What has come over Lord Osborne to make him such a different fellow from what
he used to be? Why when I was here before, he was a fine, dashing lad, quite
ready to join in any sort of sensible fun; and now he seems all taken up with
women and girls. I remember when he would have scorned to join in such trumpery
nonsense as this; but when I proposed just now that we should slip away to have
a cigar and a little brandy and water, hot and comfortable, he told me he must
attend to his sister's guests. Such a precious notion, 'pon my soul, I could not
help laughing to think of a fellow like him turned into a lady's companion; a
pretty thing indeed. If I were a peer of the realm, catch me troubling my head
about any sisters or mother of mine." "'Pon my honour, I think," said Tom, "it's
a monstrous pity he _is_ so altered, for I am sure he's not the same person to
me that he was; I really think it is all for the sake of my sister-in-law, that
pretty girl who is here now, you noticed her I dare say." "Not I, I never look
after pretty girls of that class—those I can have nothing to say to; there's an
uncommon pretty girl at the lodge-gate, who stared at me as I came in, I noticed
her there, and winked at her as hard as I could; and I intend to notice her
again before I've done with her; but what are other pretty girls to me—not my
sort, eh Tom?" Tom laughed so much, Emma did not hear what followed, but it
ended with a proposal that when they had had enough grub, they should adjourn to
the lodge to look after the rustic beauty. By this time Emma had been borne by
the throng into the interior, and unluckily the place she found for herself, was
close to Mrs. Harding Russell and her brother-in-law. She did not expect much
pleasure from this vicinity, and could not, therefore, complain of
disappointment, as well as disagreeables during this part of the entertainment.
Mrs. Harding Russell for some minutes would not turn her head towards Tom, and
when he claimed her attention, she turned towards him with a scornful smile and
exclaimed:

"Oh, you are come, are you? I hope you did not hurry yourself on _my_ account,
Mr. Musgrove. I should be sorry if you had put yourself to any inconvenience."
"Indeed I have though. I have been making frantic exertions, and trodden on at
least a dozen toes to secure a place near you, convinced you would enjoy nothing
unless I were here to help you." "Upon my word, a very pretty speech—just like a
man though—quite what one might expect from the vain sex. Pray do not take a
seat, which I have no doubt must be very disagreeable to you. I dare say
somebody else would change places with you: the young fellow talking to your
wife—Baker—Butcher—Barber—what's his name—I shall call him, he would do just as
well—he could hardly say less civil things." "What did I say, anything rude? do
you not know you were to take my speeches by contraries—did we not agree so—it
is so much safer: but you know your power—your delight in tormenting me—caprice
is so charming in women—and _you_ know how to make it positively bewitching."
"Really I have not the slightest wish to bewitch you, nor can I believe that I
do so—I have no power over any one, least of all you—I who have no charms, no
graces—oh, no indeed, I do not expect civility, much less attention from men."
"Fie, you slander yourself and me, and the whole race of men in such assertions;
you no charms—no graces—I should like to know where they are to be seen, that is
all, if you do not exhibit them. I am sure Mr. Harding Russell would not say so,
happy man!" "What do _you_ know of Mr. Harding Russell?" enquired the lady
turning abruptly round to him. "Nothing at all, except that like Roy's,

"His age is three times mine"—

shall I go on?" "Say what you please, it is better to be an old man's pet than a
young man's slave," retorted she. "Possibly, but you may reverse that saying—a
young man would infallibly become your slave, fairest." The rest of the
conversation need not be detailed, it was too common-place, and trivial to
deserve further notice; every one has heard two under-bred and over-pretending
individuals making fools of themselves and each other, by their compliments and
self-flatteries. Very much rejoiced was Emma when the conclusion of the banquet
at last allowed her the relief of a change of neighbours and conversation. As
she was looking about for some one whom she could join, standing back a little
to allow the tide of finery and flutter to roll past, she suddenly found Lord
Osborne at her side. "How came you to go all wrong, Miss Watson, at dinner?"
enquired he abruptly. "I, my lord—how!" was her answer, rather puzzled. "Getting
down quite with the wrong set—you belonged to us, and had no business at all
with Mrs. Harding Russell, or women of that kind; I looked for you, but you had
given me the slip." "Oh, is that all?" replied she, "I was really afraid I had
committed some glaring crime, from your lordship's reproaches, but if it was
only sitting near the wrong persons, I assure you I have done penance enough
already for that—I cannot say that I thought them very pleasant." "I am glad of
it," he replied with much animation, "you would have been very different from
what I fancied, if you had found any pleasure in Mrs. Harding Russell." Emma
made no answer, and he immediately afterwards proposed her joining Lady Gordon,
to which she assented. They found, on joining the circle round the hostess, that
she was proposing for them a ramble through the prettiest parts of the park, to
see the waterfall and the fairy fountain, and hear the echo, which was famous in
the glen; there were a number of young people round her, and they seemed just in
a humour for such an expedition. Some were to take carriages, some to go on
foot, and amongst this latter group were included Emma and also Miss Carr, who
seemed suddenly seized with a very decided partiality for Miss Watson, which
grew particularly strong whenever Lord Osborne approached. Quite uninvited she
linked her arm in Emma's, and would be her inseparable companion in the walk. It
was very pretty scenery through which they had to pass, and the lively party
with their gay dresses gave it quite a novel effect. There was nothing like
connected conversation carried on, only lively remarks, and quick repartees,
with quaint observations from Sir William Gordon, who formed one of the party,
and matter-of-fact assertions from his brother-in-law, who was, however,
remarkably talkative for him. In passing through one portion of the park under a
sunny bank, they startled some of the harmless speckled snakes which writhed
themselves away in haste, but not without causing much alarm and trepidation on
the part of some of the young ladies, who protested they had a natural horror of
such reptiles. This led the conversation into a new train, a long discussion on
natural antipathies, when all the young ladies were called on by Sir William to
declare what were their pet antipathies, presuming that they all cherished some
such amiable weakness. He in return was immediately assaulted by an accusation
of thinking ill of young women—entertaining satirical ideas about them, and
making ill-natured speeches to them; which of course he denied, and the dispute
which this accusation brought on lasted till they reached the fairy fountain.
Seated by the side of the spring was a brilliant, dark-eyed, beauty of a gipsy,
who seemed to be waiting their approach. "Here's a part of the masque for which
I was not prepared," cried Sir William; "I wonder whether my wife sent this
woman here." Then advancing, he enquired what she wanted. "I am waiting," she
exclaimed with a smile, "to meet you all—not you, Sir William," putting him back
with her hand. "It is not you I wish to see, but the young lord. Stand forth,
Lord Osborne." "Holloa! what now," cried he advancing—but another gentleman put
him back, and placing himself before the gipsy enquired why she called him
forth. "I never called _you_, Arthur Brooke—who named your name?—keep in your
proper place, and be not hurried to assume that of others." Then rising, she
pointed to the spring and exclaimed, "Are you all come to drink at the fairy
spring? How will you do it—where are your glasses or your pitchers?" It was
perfectly true they had all come to drink, but had forgotten or neglected to
bring any vessel with which to draw the water. After looking at them for a
moment, with triumph she exclaimed,

"You must then condescend to be beholden to the gipsy for your draught—see
here," and she produced, as she spoke, a small silver cup: "Lord Osborne, take
this cup and fill it for your guests." Lord Osborne advanced and prepared to
obey her. Sir William stopped him by suggesting perhaps it was a magic cup which
might work them harm and woe. "Scoffer!" said the woman. "It is a magic cup.
Carry that cup steadily to your lips, full to the brim, without losing a drop,
and it betides you success in your life's undertakings." "Who will try the
omen?" cried Lord Osborne. "For whom shall I dip?" "Not me! not me!" exclaimed
several of the young ladies addressed. "Let me try first for myself," he said,
and stooping filled the little goblet to the brim, raising it steadily and
carefully. "A toast," cried Sir William, "you must not drink without a toast."
"Success to our secret wishes," said he, and drained the cup to the bottom.
"Will none follow my example," added he: then again filling the cup, he
presented it to Emma; she took it and drank a part, then deliberately poured the
remainder on the ground. The gipsy's eyes flashed. "You defy me," she said,
"dark-haired girl—but ere the sun stands again where it now does, your heart
will be as heavy as your curls—your hopes as dark as your eyes—tremble—for the
approaching news—you, who have dared to disregard my cautions." "Whatever ill
news may be in store for me," said Emma firmly, looking up; "it will come quite
irrespective of the water I just poured upon the ground. I do not fear _you_. I
have seen you before." "Yes, we have met before; and I remember kindness with
gratitude, and I grieve that young hearts should break—but it must be so—triumph
and success to his lordship—but tinged with regret and sorrow—for he has drank
from the gipsy's cup. Who will have their fortunes told." "I don't believe a
word of it," said Lord Osborne, "How should she know?" "It is well to
disbelieve, no doubt; but see now, you come to the fairy well for water; but,
without my help, you would have come in vain. So it is with the future. You wish
to draw knowledge from the dark bottomless well of destiny; you may seek in
vain, unless you condescend to borrow of gipsy lore. Have courage and face the
future." "Oh! do not let us have any thing to do with her," cried one young
lady. "I am not afraid, I will have my fortune told," said Miss Carr, advancing;
"tell me, if you can, what will be my fate?" "No," replied the young woman,
turning away, "I dare not predict for you—but one thing I foresee—disappointment
and sorrow to you all—bright hopes faded—joyous faces clouded—smiles changed to
tears for some, and the gayest hours cut short with grief and dismay. Farewell!"
She fled down the glen as she spoke, and a turn of the path hid her from sight.
A something of fear and chill fell on the whole party. Sir William was the first
to break the silence. "Who is she, Miss Watson? she claims you as an
acquaintance—where did you ever see her?" Emma told him that it was a long time
ago—before last Christmas—when out walking with one of her sisters. She did not
explain that it was during that well-remembered walk, when she had met Mr.
Howard for the first time after the ball, and he had accompanied them home. This
young woman had followed them on that occasion, and Emma had persuaded Elizabeth
to give her some relief from the kitchen, as she seemed almost famishing. Having
been struck by her beauty, Emma had instantly recollected her. The waterfall and
the echo, combined with meeting those who had gone there in carriages, and
detailing the adventure of the gipsy girl to them, sufficed to restore most of
the spirits which had been damped by her predictions—and there was a great deal
of merriment going on around her—but Emma remarked that Sir William looked
particularly thoughtful and quite unlike his usual self. "Are you brooding over
the threatenings of the girl," enquired she, coming to his side, "you look so
uncommonly grave, I really think they must have made an impression on you." "I
own they have," replied he. "Oh! Sir William," exclaimed she, "I did not expect
such superstition from you. I am surprised." "Are you," said he, looking fixedly
at her; "do you not know that those people seldom prophesy without some
foundation to go on? They are quick at guessing feelings and wishes, and
combining them with past and passing events; and extremely quick at learning any
kind of news and turning it to their own advantage. Their knowledge in this way
is astonishing; and I certainly feel afraid lest it may prove too true,—that
something to us unknown, has occurred to grieve us." "You almost frighten me,
Sir William," replied Emma, turning pale. "Your attaching such consequence to
words which appeared to me spoken at random, seems quite like a reproach to me
for treating them so lightly." "Perhaps her predictions, after all, may be the
worst things that we shall hear," added Sir William, trying to shake off his
gravity; "and they will be quite fulfilled, if I make you so pale. You are
tired—take my arm!" She could not deny it; and was glad to accept a seat in one
of the carriages to return to the Castle: whither the most delicate of the
guests now agreed to turn their steps, to rest and refresh themselves after
their exertions, previous to the ball at night. CHAPTER XII. Emma was content to
lie down quietly in her own room, for her ankle was not strong, and she had
taxed it so severely, that she felt dancing would be out of the question for her
that night; she was rather sorry, for she really liked dancing; but she felt
that prudence required the sacrifice, lest she should be lame for a much longer
period. How the rest of the afternoon was spent by the guests, she could not
tell, except that the sounds of music and merriment were often borne through her
open windows, and came apparently from the lawns or the terrace. Refreshed by a
couple of hours' peace and solitude, she repaired, about seven o'clock to Lady
Gordon's dressing-room, and found her busy with her toilette. Her own dress and
appearance received due commendation both from her friend and her friend's bower
woman. It being the gift of the one, and the work of the other, it was no wonder
perhaps that they thought it looked well. The attendant observed:

"It was quite a pleasure to make gowns for Miss Watson, she became them so
completely: the work was never thrown away on her." Perhaps the speaker had an
eye to some future situation as waiting-woman to the young Lady Osborne, for his
Lordship's devotion was quite evident to the inmates of the still-room, as it
was then called; and Miss Watson was honoured accordingly. Whilst she was there,
Sir William came in likewise, and chatted in a way, which drew from Emma the
observation that he had quite recovered his spirits; his wife did not hear the
remark, and taking advantage of the occupation which at that moment engrossed
her, to speak without her notice, he begged Emma not to allude to it before
_her_ again. Of course Emma was quite ready to comply, but she thought it
strange that he should attach so much importance to the circumstance. They all
went to the grand reception rooms together: they were already gay with parties
impatient for the continuance of their pleasures. When the dancing commenced,
Emma withdrew into the conservatory, which was cool and refreshing, for the
ball-room was already heated by the company and the lights. Here she walked in
solitude for some time; her friends were all dancing, Lady Gordon, her brother,
her husband, and Miss Carr, so there was no one to interrupt her reverie, or
disturb her meditations. But at length, by the cessation of the music, she
learnt that the long country dance had finished, and soon afterwards, couples
and groups sought the same refreshment as herself. She sat down in a moon-
lighted corner, where amongst the flowers and shrubs, and by the soft and
subdued light, her white crape gown showed like the sculptured drapery of some
marble statue, and here she was still suffered to remain in peace, though the
conservatory echoed to merry voices, and the light laugh and sparkling sally of
wit, sounded above the trickling of the silvery fountain. Presently, the music
recalled all the dancers to the ball-room, and she was again in solitude, but
not now for long: a heavy step approached, and just as she was rising from her
seat, Lord Osborne joined her. "Now do sit down again," said he, "but how
completely you have hidden yourself; I began to despair of finding you—ain't you
going to dance?" She told him her reason for declining it, at which he expressed
concern, but immediately added:—

"However, perhaps on the whole, it is as well, for I wanted particularly to talk
to you, without being overheard: can you listen to me now?" She acceded, with
some surprise at the request; he leaned against the wall by her side, and began.
"Do you know my journey the other day was all on your account?" "Indeed," she
exclaimed, in some surprise. "Yes, I will tell you why, only don't interrupt me
till I have done, that puts me out; Miss Carr, whom you know I do not like, but
perhaps you do not know I do not believe, would say such ill-natured things
about you and Lady Fanny Allston, and her reason for not taking you as
governess, none of which I believed, so you need not look angry, that I
determined to go to her Ladyship, and make her contradict them. What do you
think of that?" "You really went to Lady Fanny on that subject," exclaimed Emma,
"may I ask what authority you had for interfering in my affairs?" "The
authority, Miss Watson, the right which every man has to protect a woman who is
slandered and defenceless. Miss Carr had slandered _you_ to my sister, in my
hearing; she referred to her cousin as her authority, I compelled her cousin to
acknowledge the sources of the calumny, and having traced it to a contemptible
and envious Miss Jenkins, I forced her to eat her words, and retract every
aspersion she had cast on the character of one whom I always believed blameless.
Are you now angry with me Miss Watson?" his voice softened at the last words,
his energy fled, and he looked again like himself. "I cannot tell what I feel,"
said she hesitating, "Tell me what Lady Fanny says now of me!" "That she is
convinced that she was misled by vile calumniators, and that she wished me to
use any influence I possessed with you to renew her former negotiation." "Which
you promised to do," said she, "and so you tell me this?" There was a tone of
playfulness in her voice which reassured him. "You are not angry with me?" said
he enquiringly. "I think not; it depends partly on your motive, but on the whole
I am inclined to forgive you." "A hundred thanks, but if you do forgive me—give
me your hand!" She extended one finger towards him, saying with a smile her
whole hand was too much at once: but he did not listen to her words; her hand
was caught and pressed in his, and raised to his lips before she could release
it from the unexpected thraldom. Then mustering all his courage and becoming
eloquent under an emotion which makes many an eloquent man silent, he added,

"It was for your hand I did it, to earn a claim on that, that I travelled and
met strangers, and wrangled with and coaxed them. It was because I could not
bear a blot on your fair fame—you whom I love so very much: dear Emma—you who
are so kind, so good-natured, will you not love me!" "Lord Osborne," said she
with profound gravity, "cease I beg; this species of conversation becomes
neither your station nor mine. If I own myself obliged by your exertions for my
sake, do not annul the obligation by words which never should have been spoken.
Let me go!" But he stood before her, and would not let her pass; whilst saying
in a low, deep voice,

"You must misunderstand me, Miss Watson, or you would not speak thus. Have I not
as much right as any one, to love what is fair and excellent—if I am plain and
awkward myself, can that make my love an insult—and you—are you not deserving to
be loved, worshipped, idolised by every man who comes near you. Have you not
everything that I want—everything that would grace a far higher title, a much
larger fortune than mine. But because I have none of these things is that any
reason I should not admire, and love them, or offer my coronet to one who would
so well become it. It is yours if you will but accept it; hand, fortune, title,
everything—do give me an answer." But before Emma could find voice to answer, or
arrange her ideas, they were startled by a scream from the ball-room—the music
stopped completely, and a sudden stillness for a moment prevailed, seeming awful
by the contrast to what preceded: then came a murmur, like a hundred whispers in
one, which seemed to gather and increase. Emma had started up at the scream, and
now stood suspended, with a beating heart and unsteady breath. "What can be the
matter," said he, "shall I go and see—sit down, do not alarm yourself." She
really was obliged to seat herself, for she could not stand; he went a few
steps, where he was met by Sir William. "For Heaven's sake Osborne come here and
send off all these people, your sister is in a fit, and I am almost as bad from
horror." "What in the world is the matter," cried he, struck by the agitated
tone and look of his brother-in-law. "A report has been brought from Wales that
Howard is dead," said Sir William, "killed by a fall from a horse amongst the
mountains, and Rosa heard it suddenly—and I am afraid—"

"Killed—Howard—dead—good Heavens," instinctively he was turning to the spot
where Emma sat, but Sir William impatiently seized his arm and hurried him away
unconscious that she was near. She was left alone to her feelings, and how the
next half hour passed she never knew. She could neither think nor move; to feel
was too much, for a confused murmur rang in her ears; a sound of suppressed
voices, and hurried footsteps, and rolling wheels, and then all seemed still
again. How long she sat there she could not calculate, horror-struck and
immoveable, she seemed unconscious of everything but the one thought that he was
_dead_. And so suddenly, so awfully—it could not be!—and yet it must be true;
she shivered with horror, and then she seemed again to become insensible to
everything, closing her eyes to the gay lights and gaudy flowers which appeared
to mock her when she gazed at them. She was just beginning to recover, but still
unable to move, when she heard Sir William's voice enquiring,

"Where is Emma—Osborne, have you seen her? she was not in the ball-room." "She
was with me in the conservatory," replied his companion. "Good heavens, then she
must have heard it all," cried Sir William, then hurrying forward as he caught a
glimpse of her white gown, he gazed with anxious enquiry at her. Her bloodless
cheek, and her whole air, at once betrayed her knowledge of what had passed; but
making a violent effort to conquer emotions which were almost choking her, she
attempted to rise and come forward. She had hardly strength for the exertion,
she trembled so violently, but still the effort did her good. Sir William looked
at her compassionately, and drawing her hand under his arm without a word, led
her away. Lord Osborne followed with a look of deep dismay in his face, and an
air of indescribable dejection over his whole figure. "Can I be of any use to
Lady Gordon?" enquired Emma, forcing slowly, one by one, from her parched and
trembling lips, the words which she could scarcely articulate. "Lady Gordon is
tolerably composed, and gone to bed," replied he, "let me recommend the same
course to you. I am shocked to think you should have been left so long uncared
for. You seem quite exhausted and worn out." Emma gladly complied with his
recommendation, and tried to sleep, but that was vain. Images of horror of every
kind filled her mind the moment she attempted it, and she was glad at length to
rise and throw open the window to breathe the fresh air. The moon, which was
still high in the sky, was beginning to grow pale before the increasing light in
the east; the air was calm, the wind merely a gentle breathing: now and then was
heard the chirp of the early birds in the neighbouring trees, but as yet the
busy tenants of the rookery near the castle were still. The cry of the deer in
the park, the lowing of cattle at a still greater distance, the murmur of the
stream in the valley came distinctly on the ear, during the profound hush which
preceded the dawn. Everything looked so fair and calm, and happy—could it be
that misery and disappointment, and suffering, were for ever lurking under all!
How gay had been the commencement of yesterday; how sad the close! Such was
worldly pleasure—such it must be—such it ought to be. Happiness was fled from
her for ever; she could not expect to meet it again. A calm, dull future spread
before her, uncheered by love, or home, or hope. Her affections blighted in
their first spring, were for ever destroyed, and if she could learn resignation
that was the utmost she could look forward to. She burst into tears, went back
to her bed, cried herself to sleep, and did not wake till a late hour the
following day. Of course she was looking wretchedly pale and miserable when she
descended the next day. So conscious was she of this that she longed to remain
in her own room, but feared that it might have even a more suspicious appearance
than her pale cheeks. She was relieved on entering the sitting room to find only
Sir William, Lord Osborne having breakfasted and gone out. He was looking sad
and grave, but replied to her anxious enquiries, that his wife was better, but
not well enough to leave her room yet. He regarded her with a compassionate
expression, and said,

"You too are suffering from the events of yesterday—no wonder; such a blow
coming after so much excitement and fatigue." Her lip quivered, and she could
not answer. "Miss Watson," added he, "the gipsy must have known of this before
we met her. She must have alluded to this shocking event." Emma made an effort,
and succeeded in articulating,

"Certainly." Then after a pause, she ventured to enquire,

"How did the report reach you?" It had been brought, it appeared, by one of the
guests, whose cousin or brother, or some such friend, had just arrived from
Wales, and learnt it before leaving Denbighshire. It had been accidentally
mentioned by this gentleman in Lady Gordon's hearing; and she being at the time
in a nervous, irritable state from fatigue, excitement, and the heat of the
ball-room, had been seized with a violent fit of hysteria at the information,
which had broken up the dancing and compelled her to quit the company. "And my
abruptness I fear overpowered you, Miss Watson," added Sir William, "I had no
idea that you were there when I met Osborne, and spoke with the conviction that
I was distressing no nerves weaker than his." "But even Lord Osborne must feel
such a shock," said Emma. "Oh yes he feels it very much, but it is not his way
to be overpowered by his feeling. None who had known Howard could help feeling
it—so sudden an event—and quitting us quite well only a few days before—what his
poor sister must have felt!" Sir William paused, for Emma had walked away to
hide her tears and smother her sobs at the window. The entrance of Miss Carr at
the moment, well-dressed, and cheerful looking as usual, tended greatly to
compose Emma's spirits, but quite overpowered Sir William. He escaped instantly
out of the room. Miss Carr came up to Emma. "How miserably uncomfortable
everything seems to-day. I cannot imagine why the death of this man—even
supposing he is dead—should derange everybody here to such a degree. A thing
which happened too some hundreds of miles away, Rosa in bed, and neither Sir
William, nor Osborne visible. Don't you think it's too bad?" "I dare say Lady
Gordon will soon recover," replied Emma, "but I cannot wonder if she is
indisposed considering everything—the heat, the fatigue, and all the excitement
of yesterday." "Have you breakfasted, Miss Watson?" enquired Miss Carr. Emma
replied she had not. "Then come with me, and let us get some," said she, passing
her hand under Emma's arm. "There is no reason that we should fast, I suppose;
for, though Mr. Howard's death is very shocking, I confess it does not take away
the appetite quite." Emma thought it would be the easiest way to consent, and
they went accordingly. On entering the breakfast-room, which they had entirely
to themselves, they found that, owing probably to the confusion in the
household, the letters, by that morning's post, had been laid on the table
there, and no one had seen them. Miss Carr immediately began looking them over,
and presently exclaimed:

"Here are two—three for you Miss Watson. I wonder there are none for me!" Emma
received them, and glanced at their exteriors to see whether she should open
them there. One she saw was from Miss Bridge—one from Elizabeth—and thinking
that the occupation of reading them would prevent her hearing Miss Carr's
chatter, she broke the seal of the latter, and began to peruse it. It gave her a
lively account of Lord Osborne's visit, and contained many hints as to the
object of his journey and the motive for it, which suddenly re-called to Emma's
mind the fact, which until that moment, had absolutely escaped her memory—his
proposal to herself—a proposal to which he had, as yet, received no answer. It
seemed hard and cruel to keep the poor young man in suspense, which would end in
disappointment—for she could not hesitate a moment, as to her answer. Under no
circumstances could she ever accept him, or persuade herself to think him an
agreeable man. But the meditation on his love, and her intentions with regard to
it, forced another consideration upon her, what else should she do with
reference to him. Would he leave the house, or should she, or could they go on
as before with any comfort to herself. It would be very disagreeable to have to
continue in daily intercourse with a rejected lover, unless, indeed, he were
much more magnanimous than the rest of his sex; for, with men in general, it
appears, no insult can be deeper, no injury more severe, than a woman differing
from their estimation of themselves, and doubting the fact of their making a
suitable and agreeable husband. This is so unpardonable an offence, that there
are few men who would acknowledge having met with such a rebuff, or if they do,
it is in the well-known language of the "Laird o' Cockpen." Emma flattered
herself, on consideration, that she should not suffer from any pique on his
part, as when her unalterable resolution was once known to him, there would be
nothing to prevent his immediately removing himself and his disappointment to
some other scene. After dreaming over these things for some time, she took up
the other letters and rose to go. Casting her eye, as she did so, on the post-
mark and address of the third, which, hitherto, she had not noticed, she was
startled by perceiving that it came from North Wales—and, if her senses did not
deceive her, it was Mr. Howard's handwriting. The small remains of presence of
mind which this discovery left her, was just sufficient to check the exclamation
rising to her lips; and the impulse of her feelings prompting her to seek
solitude and fresh air—she rushed out on the terrace, down the flight of steps
into Lady Gordon's flower garden; and there, secluding herself under a wide
spreading bay tree, she endeavoured to recover sufficient breath and composure
to examine the letter. With trembling fingers, beating heart, and tearful eyes,
she broke the seal, and after hurriedly glancing at the date and signature, laid
it down on her knees, and resting her head on her arm, burst into a fit of
crying, which she tried vainly to control. And was the hand which had penned
those lines never to clasp hers again! Did the heart which dictated them—did it
beat no more! Had the declaration of his love been delayed until the
acknowledgment of her own could never gratify his ears! Why, oh! why was this!
Why had he suppressed his feelings! Why had he left her! Why had he tortured her
thus! She caught up the letter—covered it with kisses—and then through her
blinding tears attempted to read it. It contained a short and simple statement
of his love, and an offer of his hand; if she could consent to be a poor man's
wife, he would do his utmost to make her happy. But it was all too late now; by
the date it was evident that the letter had been written nearly a fortnight ago,
and the tardiness of the post-office arrangements had alone prevented his
receiving a reply. And he had, perhaps, been blaming her for silence and proud
disdain—perhaps with the mixed quick-sightedness and blindness of love, he had
been alike jealous of Lord Osborne's passion, and alarmed lest she were
influenced in his lordship's favor. He might have been attributing her silence
to this cause, and perished blaming her for coquetry, coldness, or ambition.
Could she but have told him of her feelings—but now he would never know them. It
was a very great relief to her to give unrestrained course to her tears—there
was no occasion now to repress them. She need not fear harsh constructions, nor
shrink from animadversions on her feelings. She had a _right_ to grieve. She had
lost a declared lover, one too whose passion she had returned—and who would
blame her now for pale cheeks and tearful eyes? She did not think this with such
distinctness as to put it into words, but she felt it deeply, and it was a
strange comfort to her. After the letter had been read many times, every word
weighed and examined, and the reason which dictated his choice of each
expression guessed at; after even the address had been accurately surveyed, and
either anxiety or love discovered in every curve or stroke of the pen, it was
carefully folded and placed in her bosom, there to remain for ever; for never
could the feelings with which she regarded its writer change; never could she
love another, or listen to another suit. Her lot in life was fixed for ever, and
perpetual celibacy for his sake was not too great a compliment to the memory of
one so dearly loved, so sadly lost. CHAPTER XIII. After composing her feelings,
smoothing her hair, and cooling her face at the fountain close by, she ventured
to return to the Castle, with the intention, if she were permitted, of seeing
Lady Gordon, though she had not yet decided upon telling her how deeply her
feelings were involved in the melancholy past. Her friend was in the morning
room when she returned to it, lying on a sofa, and on Emma's entrance there was
a general expression of wonder as to where she had been for so long a time from
the three who were sitting there. Her only answer of course was that she did not
know she _had_ been long away: she had been sitting in the flower-garden. "I
wonder you like to sit there," said Miss Carr; "I always am stung by gnats if I
venture on such a thing." She then turned herself sleepily on the sofa and dozed
again. Sir William, after an earnest look at Emma's countenance, withdrew his
eyes, and was apparently occupied with a newspaper, whilst Emma drawing her
embroidery frame close to Lady Gordon's sofa, sat down with apparent industry to
her work, with the satisfactory consciousness that every time she drew a long
breath, her precious letter was more closely pressed to her swelling heart. The
long silence which ensued was only broken by Sir William at last throwing down
the paper, and proposing to his wife a walk or a drive—anything for change of
air and scene. She agreed to the drive, and he went to hurry the phæton, she to
arrange her dress. Miss Carr begged to accompany them, and could not be refused,
though they did not particularly desire her society; and thus Emma was left
alone to indulge in sad recollections and tender reveries, which were, however,
speedily cut short by the entrance of Lord Osborne. It was natural that, having
seen the others go out without Emma, he should calculate on finding her alone,
and equally so that he should be exceedingly anxious for an interview, as his
question was still unanswered, his hand unaccepted, his future happiness as yet
uncertain. She looked up with an air of consciousness on his approach, which
encouraged him to advance, and draw a seat by her side. He tried to take her
hand, but the attempt was made with so much hesitation and awkwardness that she
was not even sure whether he intended it; no repulse was requisite, the simple
not encouraging it was enough to prevent so daring an act of gallantry. In fact,
he had lost the courage which on the previous night had distinguished him; the
warmth and animation were gone—he was again himself, labouring under rather more
than his usual awkwardness of manner, and quite overpowered by his various
sensations. To have expressed all his feelings would have been impossible even
for an eloquent man—his love was so mingled with jealousy, his hope with doubt,
and his satisfaction with regret. He sat looking at her for some minutes in
silence, which Emma thought particularly disagreeable, until at length she
concluded that he expected her to commence the conversation, and looking up with
as steady a voice as she could command, she enquired whether he had received any
further intelligence from Wales. "No!" he replied, abruptly, but the question
roused him to exertion, and he added,

"You cannot imagine, however much I may think of the unlucky event, that I came
here to talk about _that_ to you. I am come to ask, to entreat, to claim an
answer to my question last night: for every man has a right to an answer to such
a question!" He paused, and she tried to speak; it was at first with difficulty
she could utter a syllable: but her courage rose as she proceeded, and she was
able to finish with firmness. "Lord Osborne, I cannot deny your claim to an
answer, but I regret that I should be under the necessity of paining you by that
answer; I cannot accept the offer you have made me, but I shall always remember
your good opinion, and liberality of sentiment, with gratitude." "I did not ask
for gratitude," replied he reproachfully, "what good will that do me? Besides I
do not see that I deserve it." "You have judged me kindly, my lord; you have
given me credit for rectitude, nay you have exerted yourself to prove it, when
others might have thought and acted very differently." "Yes; I dare say—some who
did not know you as well, might have judged you harshly, but Emma, dear,
beautiful Emma, I knew you could not be wrong. I have loved you so dearly, and I
never loved any woman before, it is very hard you will not like me in return."
"I cannot, my lord," said she, her eyes filling with tears, "I have no love to
bestow on any one, my heart is—" she stopped abruptly. He looked very fixedly at
her, and then said,

"You _did_ love Howard." She raised her eyes proudly for a moment, but there was
nothing of impertinence in his look or tone, nothing which need offend her; and
moved by her feelings at the moment she exclaimed,

"Yes I _did_ love him—how can I listen to your suit?" He looked down intently,
and taking up one of her embroidery needles thrust it backwards and forwards
through the corner of her work, for some minutes, with an energy which ended in
breaking the needle itself—then again addressing her he said in a feeling tone.
"Poor fellow, he did not live to know that, I am sorry for him!" There was
something in the manner of this very unexpected admission which quite
overpowered Emma's heroism; it was so different from what she had expected; she
covered her face and burst into tears. He sat looking at her, then said, "Don't
Miss Watson, pray don't cry—it makes me so very uncomfortable; but indeed I do
pity our poor friend, and the more so because loving you so very much myself, I
feel what he has lost; and I am so sorry for you too; you must have felt it—the
shock of his death I mean." Emma's sobs quite prevented her speaking, but she
struggled to suppress her tears, and presently succeeded in mastering her
agitation. "Did you know he loved you?" asked Lord Osborne suddenly. "I did, but
not till this very morning," answered she, hardly conscious of what she was
saying. He was again silent for a good while, but ended with saying firmly,

"With such feelings, I cannot expect you to listen to my suit, and will not
torment you with it. Remember you have not a sincerer friend in the world than
myself, or one who would do more to prove his good opinion. And I do not say it
merely to be thanked—as I mean to shew you whenever I can." He took her hand
this time, and pressed it, looked at it as he held it for a moment, and then as
she drew it away, he rose and left the room. She was quite surprised at the way
in which the interview had terminated; he had shewn so much good feeling, so
much less of selfishness than she had been in the habit of mentally attributing
to him; there was no indignation, no wounded pride, no pique or resentment at
her refusal; it was almost as if he had thought more of her disappointment than
of his own, and regarded her feelings as of more consequence than his
attachment. Her opinion of him had never been so high as when she thus declined
his proposals: she felt that with a suitable wife, one who could value his good
qualities, improve his tastes, and really love him, he might in time turn out a
very estimable character. If he were but as fortunate in his selection of a
partner, as his sister had been, there was every probability of his equalling
her in domestic happiness. She did not regret her own decision, but she
regretted that he should have been so unfortunate as to love where no return
could be given; if he had but chosen one whose heart was disengaged;—but as for
herself, _she_ was not the woman who could really make him happy; she had not
the energy and decision of character requisite for his wife; she did not wish to
govern, and she felt that she could only be happy, in proportion as she
respected as well as loved her husband; unless she could trust his judgment and
lean on him, she felt convinced she should despise him and be miserable. When
the family met at dinner, Lord Osborne was there, and she had not the slightest
hint as to his probable departure; but there was nothing in his conduct or
manners to create unpleasant feelings, or reveal the past to lookers on. There
was but little said in their small circle that evening; the shock had been too
recent to be yet so soon rallied from. Lady Gordon had been so very much
attached to Mr. Howard; from her girlhood he had been her peculiar admiration,
and her standard of excellence as a clergyman: the only wonder was that this
attachment had continued on both sides so entirely platonic; that considering
their opportunities of intercourse there had never been any approach to love.
But so it was—whether there was too much pride on both sides, or whether her
heart had been unknowingly engrossed by Sir William Gordon, she could not have
told, but certainly, though they had talked and jested, quarrelled and been
reproved, agreed and differed for the last four years, they had never passed the
temperate zone of friendship, and her sorrow at his death was expressed fully,
unreservedly, bitterly, without exciting the shadow of jealousy in her husband's
mind. Indeed he fully sympathised in her feelings for he had loved and highly
valued Howard, whom he had known intimately at College, before he became the
young lord's tutor. Fanny Carr was the only member of the party who seemed quite
unaffected by what had occurred, but she was out of temper about something which
concerned herself, and was fortunately silent. Emma went to her friend's
dressing-room the next morning by particular desire to breakfast quietly with
her, whilst Sir William was sent down to do the honours of the house to Miss
Carr and his brother-in-law. "I want to talk to you, my dear friend," said Lady
Gordon, "but I hardly know how to begin—about this shocking affair—poor, dear
Mr. Howard, is it not sad?" Emma's eyes filled with tears, and she could not
answer. "I thought so," said Lady Gordon, earnestly gazing at her face, "I knew
your heart—you have, of us all, the most reason to regret his death." Emma
continued silent, for she had no voice to speak. "You are not angry with me for
the suggestion," continued Rosa, taking her hand, "I would not offend or vex
you, but I cannot help expressing my interest in your feelings. It was so
natural that you should return his affection." "You knew of his love then,"
sobbed Emma. "I could not help seeing what was so very evident, but you,
doubtless, were better informed on the subject?" replied Lady Gordon, with some
curiosity. Emma controlled her feelings enough to give her a sensible account of
the letter which she had received the morning previous; that precious letter
which had doubled her sorrow, and made her feel her misfortune so much more
deeply. "How very sad," cried Lady Gordon, "and that was really the first you
heard of his attachment—the first declaration you had from him; it must have
broken your heart. I can imagine in some degree what you have felt. Had he been
alive what answer would you have returned?" "What answer?" exclaimed Emma, "how
can you ask, Lady Gordon—you _know_ what I should have said; that his love was
dearer to me than all the wealth of the country, or the honors of the peerage!"
"Poor girl—you will never recover from such a shock." "Never, never—I can never
love another, or cease to regret the one I have so sadly lost. Time can only
increase my regret. But we must not think only of ourselves, what must his
sister have felt—dear Lady Gordon, think of her; how I wish I were near her, to
love and comfort her." "Poor thing," sighed Lady Gordon, "yes I do pity her. She
was very fond of him, and she can never have another brother." CHAPTER XIV. Just
at this moment a gentle tap was heard at the door; Lady Gordon gave her
permission to enter; and the opening door displayed to their astonished eyes,
Howard himself. Yes, there he was, to all appearance perfectly well,—the man
whom they had been mourning over as dead, stood before them in flesh and blood,
with no other difference from his usual air, than that he looked rather flushed
with exercise, and somewhat surprised at his reception. "Mr. Howard!" gasped
Lady Gordon, scarcely believing her senses. Emma was speechless with twenty
different feelings. "I fear I am an unwelcome visitor," said he, amazed at his
reception; "shall I withdraw?" Before either of the ladies could reply, Sir
William precipitately entered the room; he had apparently been in the act of
dressing, for he made his appearance without a coat, and unmindful of where he
was, he rushed up to Howard, and actually embracing him in the excitement of his
joy, exclaimed:

"My dear fellow, twenty millions of welcomes to you, how came you here—we never
thought to see you again!" Lady Gordon too, had risen, and clasping both his
hands in hers, she exclaimed:

"Oh, how I rejoice to see you alive—you cannot think how we all grieved when we
heard you were dead!" It was now Howard's turn to look bewildered: he turned
from the husband to the wife in uncontrollable amazement, and said:

"May I ask what is the meaning of all this—are you performing a comedy or acting
a charade!" "Why I suppose," said Sir William, recovering himself a little, "we
do all seem rather frantic to you, since you must be alike ignorant of our
anxieties and the relief your presence has occasioned. The fact is, we heard you
were dead!" "Indeed!" exclaimed Howard. "Take care, or Mr. Howard will begin to
believe it too, and that will frighten him," said Rosa, laughing almost
hysterically. "But do tell me what you thought was the matter with me," said
Howard impatiently. "We heard you had fallen and been killed amongst the rocks,"
said Sir William, "and we were very unhappy about it. I assure you, you have
been wept by bright eyes, and fair cheeks have turned pale at the news of your
death. There is not a man in the whole county has been more talked of than you;
the news of your melancholy death reached us in the gayest moment of a _fête_,
sent Lady Gordon into fits, and all the company out of the house, broke up the
dance, interrupted six tender flirtations and three rubbers at whist, in short,
caused more unhappiness, disappointment, and dismay, than an ordinary individual
would reasonably expect to excite either living or dying." "Really it is a very
uncommon fate for a man to hear the lamentations occasioned by his death, and if
what you say is not exaggerated, Sir William, I ought to be greatly flattered,"
replied Howard smiling, but at the same time looking round the room to see what
was become of the one face, whose expression he was most anxious to read. But
Emma was gone; she had left the room without a word of congratulatory greeting,
or a single expression of interest. "I cannot think how you can jest about so
serious an affair, William," said his wife reproachfully, "you did not jest,
however, whilst you believed it; he is not quite without feeling, Mr. Howard."
"And did you honor me with tears, Lady Gordon?" said the young clergyman, taking
her hand with an irrepressible feeling of gratification. "That was a thing
almost worth dying for." "Come, come," said Sir William interposing, "do not be
making love to Rosa before my face; though she did cry, hers were not the only
tears shed on the occasion, nor the most flattering to you." "Who else wept for
me?" enquired he with something more than curiosity. "Your old housekeeper, and
your gardener's daughter," replied Lady Gordon maliciously. "Nobody else?"
"Abominable conceit—who else do you expect to hear of?" exclaimed she, "I
declare all men are alike, if you give the smallest encouragement to their good
opinion of themselves, they set no bounds to their presumptuous expectations. I
shall tell you no more. Find out for yourself who feels any interest in your
fate." "Miss Carr expressed great sensibility on the occasion," interrupted Sir
William, "I was dancing with her at the time the news arrived, and she said:

"'Dear me, how very shocking—poor young man.'" "Thank you," replied Howard with
a glow of satisfaction, "you have told me quite enough to satisfy a much less
modest man than I am. I have heard sufficient. But I think I know how the report
arose. I _was_ left behind at a riding party, as the girth of my saddle broke,
and I stopped at a country shop to get it repaired. I dare say in the imperfect
Welsh which was all we could muster of the country's language, there was some
confusion made between a broken girth and a broken neck, which gave rise to the
distressing intelligence." "That may be very possible," replied Lady Gordon,
"but I shall never in future believe any report of your misfortunes again, and
if you want me to grieve again for you, you must break your neck in good
earnest." "Excuse me, but I have no wish to cause you any concern, Lady Gordon,
or to put your feelings to such a test." "By the bye, when did you arrive,
Howard?" enquired the baronet. "About two hours ago; and I own I was rather
surprised to find my house shut up, and nobody at home; but if my servants
thought me dead, it was all very natural." "No doubt they will tell you they
were afraid of remaining lest you should walk again," observed Sir William. "As
I do not know when they will return," continued he, "and I do not wish to break
into my house, I must throw myself on your hospitality for to-day, if you will
receive a poor wanderer." Of course he was made extremely welcome by his
friends, and invited to remain as long as was convenient. It was very pleasant
to be so kindly received; but there was another voice he was longing to hear
welcome him, another hand he wished to press, another smile to bless his eyes.
As soon as he could he left Lady Gordon, and went to look for Emma. In the
breakfast-room, the library, the conservatory, the flower-garden he sought her,
but in vain; in fact she had shut herself into her own room, to give utterance,
in grateful thanks, to the emotions which swelled her heart; emotions far too
powerful for words. At the moment she could not have encountered him with
anything like a due and decorous dignity; had she seen him, she must have been
guilty of expressing too warmly her interest in his welfare: it would not do to
flatter him with a knowledge how very glad she was at his having safely
returned; for he was but a man, and as such, liable of course to all the foibles
of mankind: the vanity, the triumph, the selfish gratification which such a
dangerous knowledge would create. She thought very well of him certainly, but
the temptation to conceit might be too strong, and she might have to rue the day
if she placed such confidence in him. No, she would not see him till her
feelings were in better order, and more under her own control. Such was her
resolution as she sought the shelter of her dressing-room; it did not occur to
her, that he might consider he had a claim on her attention, and a right to
demand an interview with her; a claim and a right which no man very much in love
could be expected to forego. Having been quite unsuccessful in his search for
her, he took a very plain and straight-forward course to obtain what he wished,
going to Lady Gordon for assistance. "Will you be my friend," said he, appealing
to her with a look of great concern, "my friend in a very important matter."
"Have I ever been otherwise, why should you ask?" replied she. "Then procure me
an interview with Emma—I cannot find her any where, and I cannot exist longer in
suspense. Dear Lady Gordon, do pray have pity on me!" "Yes!" replied she,
affecting to look very grave, "I have pity on you; and since you wish so much
for an interview, I will try and procure one, that is if Emma is not absolutely
bent on refusing to hear you. But are you prepared—can you stand the shock which
awaits you?" "Good Heavens! what do you mean, Lady Gordon?" cried he, catching
her hand in his with an accent of alarm. "Why, what do you expect?" said she,
withdrawing her hand, "but that she will refuse you; what else can you
anticipate?" "Refuse me, why—do not torment me—I am _not_ afraid—" he added,
trying to smile. "Upon my word, a very modest speech!" exclaimed she, "so you
feel no alarm—tranquil self-confidence possesses your soul. Emma will be
intensely gratified!" "Dear Lady Gordon—" said he, pleadingly; but she would not
listen. "So I am to call Miss Watson down to you, persuading her to come with an
assurance, that you feel so confident of what her answer will be that you
entertain no anxiety, no alarm. Is that what I am to say?" "Say anything you
please, Lady Gordon," exclaimed he, in desperation, "only procure me the sight
of Miss Watson, and the opportunity to speak to her." "Very well, go to the
library, and I will bring her there." He anxiously hastened to the rendezvous
she appointed; she crossed the gallery to her friend's dressing-room. On
obtaining admission, she found Emma had been lying on the sofa in a darkened
room; she sat down by her, and affectionately kissing her forehead and cheek,
she said,

"I am come to congratulate you, my dear Miss Watson, that our imaginary tragedy
has proved an entire fable—Mr. Howard is quite well, and all the loss on the
occasion is that of a very pleasant dance, which I had intended should be very
much enjoyed." "It seems so strange and incomprehensible," observed Emma,
putting back the ringlets from her forehead, "I could hardly believe my eyes, or
credit my senses, and as to speaking, that was out of the question. I hope you
did not think me very rude if you noticed me, but the only thing I could do, was
to run away." "But now you have recovered your self-possession, and the use of
your speech, I hope you do not mean to seclude yourself here all day; pray come
and join us all. You had better." "Perhaps I had," said Emma, "I will come with
you in a moment; just let me smooth my hair first." "It is very nice I assure
you, but I will wait as long as you please." Miss Carr and Sir William were in
the sitting-room; but Lady Gordon did not stop there; to the great relief of
Emma, who dreaded the remarks of the young lady, they walked into the
conservatory, through it, and entered from the other end the library window.
Lord Osborne and Mr. Howard were there together, but the former instantly took
flight at their approach. Lady Gordon still keeping Emma's hand under her own
arm, led her up to Mr. Howard, and said,

"I have brought my friend to congratulate the dead-alive, Mr. Howard; she was
wishing to say civil speeches to you like the rest of us, but as I have done my
duty in that way, and a twice told tale is tedious, I shall leave you, to go
after my brother." As Emma had held out her hand to the gentleman, she could not
follow Lady Gordon in her flight, though looking exceedingly inclined to do so;
for he held her with a gentle pressure, and would not let her go. His eyes were
so earnestly bent upon hers, that she dared not look up after the one glance she
had given him; and she stood, her slender fingers trembling in his grasp,
longing to speak, but wanting courage to break the silence. "I am glad Miss
Watson is not to be the only one from whom I hear no word of welcome," said he
gently. "If you knew how very grateful I should feel for one sentence of
kindness—even one look which evinced interest, could you refuse me?" "I assure
you, Mr. Howard," said she, determined no longer to stand silently blushing like
a criminal before him; "I assure you it was not want of interest, or kindly
feeling towards you, which kept me silent." "Thank you—you were glad to see me
again?" "Indeed I was." "And you guess—you must know and feel why I hurried
home?" "No, indeed," but the words were accompanied by so very deep a blush,
that they looked exceedingly like a falsehood. "There was a letter, which I
wrote, but to which I received no answer, which hurried my movements—do you now
know what I mean?" "I believe I do," she uttered in desperation finding he
seemed determined she should answer him. "And though you would not write, you
will condescend now to answer that letter by word of mouth," taking her hand in
both of his; "I am sure you are too generous wilfully to torment me—and if you
had known how much pain your silence gave me, you would not have allowed it to
last so long." "Mr. Howard," said Emma, looking up, but making no attempt to
withdraw her hand; "I only received that letter yesterday morning; and as I then
thought you were dead—you cannot imagine the pain which the receipt of it
occasioned _me_." She spoke hurriedly, without considering the full value of her
words; but _he_ saw the implied meaning—where was the man ever blind to such a
compliment. The speech he made on the occasion, was a great deal too rapturous
and lover-like to bear transcribing, indeed, when lovers' speeches really come
from the heart, they would seldom be sufficiently intelligible to interest
general readers. There is so much understood by the pressure of the hands—so
much explained by the language of the eyes—and so much made up by other signs
well-known to the initiated, but unnecessary to detail to those who have never
gone through such an ordeal, that in most cases it seems probable an accurate
relation in words would be the most tiresome, the most incomprehensible, the
most ridiculous thing in the world to those not taking a principal part in it.
Where the heart takes but a small share in the proceedings, indeed, fine
speeches may be made, but where the affections are engaged, the meaning can be
perfectly understood without them. The result of his speech, and Emma's answer,
was much more favorable to his happiness, than the reply which she had made the
previous day to a similar question from Lord Osborne. She acknowledged that she
loved him, and that the dread of being poor, or the desire of being great, would
not prevent her promising to become his wife. When the first effervescence of
his joy had subsided, and he was able to speak in a calm and reasonable manner,
and consider what was best to be done, he urged her to come out with him into
the park, as the first step to securing her company perfectly undisturbed—for,
in the library, they were constantly exposed to be interrupted. Here she tried
to obtain from him some rational account as to why he had tantalised her so long
by deferring an explanation—which, for any thing she could see to the contrary,
might just as well, or better, have been made long before. Since he professed he
had loved her even before she went to Croydon, why did he take no steps to tell
her so; or why, since he ended in writing, did he not write to her there? Was it
necessary to go as far as North Wales to find courage for such an epistle. He
told her it was doubt and want of courage kept him silent—then he contradicted
himself and said it was really jealousy of Lord Osborne. He had believed the
young baron loved her. So he might, perhaps, was Emma's reply—but what had that
to do with it; to make the admiration dangerous, it was necessary that she
should return his affection, "and surely, you never suspected me of that?" said
she. "How could I tell? Might you not naturally be dazzled with the idea of a
coronet; why, should I have interfered with your advantage or advancement?" "As
if it would be to my advantage to marry a man like Lord Osborne," replied Emma.
"I do not wish to say anything derogatory to your friends, or to Lady Gordon's
brother, but indeed I think you might have given me credit for rather a
different taste at least. I have no wish either to flatter you too much; but I
fancy, whether better or worse, _our_ tastes are more consonant than mine and
Lord Osborne's." "But, my dearest Emma, did he not love you?" "What right have
you to ask me any such questions, Mr. Howard? so long as I assure you, I did not
love him, that ought to be sufficient for you—let his feelings remain a secret."
"There should be no secrets between us, Emma." "Very well—but there shall be
between Lord Osborne and me." "For shame, Emma, I shall certainly forbid
anything of the kind." "Set me the example of sincerity and openness then, tell
me to how many ladies you have made love—how many hopeless and inextinguishable
flames you have nourished, and how many hearts you have found obdurate to your
finest speeches." Mr. Howard protested he had never loved any other woman, never
sought any other hand than hers, and never made fine speeches to any one. With
all his eloquence and ability he was not able to extract from her the fact, that
she had refused Lord Osborne. She had two motives for her silence; a feeling of
delicacy towards her rejected suitor, and a decided determination not to flatter
Howard's vanity by such a mark of her preference. She thought it quite enough
for him to know himself accepted without learning, at least at present, how many
she had refused for his sake. CHAPTER XV

Lady Gordon, and her husband, learnt with sincere pleasure, that a happy
understanding had been established between Emma and her lover; they both hinted
that the disappointment to Lord Osborne would not be lasting, and that the
attachment would on the whole have done him good. He had improved so much during
its progress, had become so sociable and civilised by his affection, that he
seemed a different person; and whilst rejoicing at the change, they trusted he
would not relapse under the effects of his want of success, but would prove
himself worthy of his place in society, and his position in the world. As to the
young man himself, he felt his disappointment most acutely, but it did not make
him more selfish than he had been. On the contrary it seemed to give rise to a
magnanimity of sentiment which could hardly have been expected from him. Two
days after the engagement it was found he went down to see Howard at the
vicarage immediately after the post had come in. That morning he had received an
announcement of the death of the old rector before mentioned. He now hastened to
offer the living to Howard, delighted to have it in his power thus to improve
his circumstances. "Howard," said he, "I have learnt by this letter that the
living of Carsdean is vacant. I am glad of it—as I am sure it will make you much
more comfortable. Will you accept it?" "My dear lord," said he, with much
emotion, "you are too kind to me: I am ashamed to accept such a benefit, when I
have robbed you of what you so much desired." "Do not speak of that," said the
other, "she took her choice, and no doubt chose wisely; I always _felt_ you were
beloved, Howard, even whilst I was fool enough to flatter myself with success:
but I am not angry either with her or you, and since I cannot make her happy
myself, I am glad I can help you to do so. This living was always meant for
you—but coming as it does just now, it gives me very great pleasure." "I knew
you were generous," replied Howard, "and I can feel how much satisfaction the
power of obliging must confer." "Make her happy, Howard, and when I can, I will
come and see you, but it is best at first that we should be apart. You accept my
wedding gift!" "A noble one, like the heart which dictates it, and a welcome one
indeed since it removes the only obstacle to my marriage," replied Howard.
"Howard, you are a lucky man; I would have given half my income to have had the
power of persuading her to accept the other half. You know, I dare say, that she
refused me?" "No, indeed!" "Did not Emma tell you? She _did_ refuse me, and I
loved her the better for it, for it was entirely for _your_ sake; but as I
thought you were dead then I did not take it so much to heart, because I trusted
to time and perseverance when my rival was removed." "And when I came back and
destroyed your dream, how you must have hated me! I wonder you could shake hands
as you did, and say you were glad to see me." "Howard," said Lord Osborne with
much agitation, "if I thought you were serious in what you say, I would never
speak to you again; I _know_ you only say it to torment me, but is that generous
when you are the winning party?" "I beg your pardon," said Howard holding out
his hand; and no more was said on the subject. "What a pity it is," said Emma
Watson to Howard when he was joyfully detailing to her his happy prospects, and
Lord Osborne's generosity, "what a pity it is that Lord Osborne's manners are so
inferior to his mind. With so much good feeling and generosity of sentiment, it
is unfortunate that he should have so little engaging in his appearance and
address." "I do not think so at all, Emma, for if his manners had been such as
you admire, and calculated to set off his good qualities, you would certainly
have been lost to me." "What abominable conceit!" cried Emma; "you really take
credit to yourself, do you, for such very captivating manners yourself, since
you think that those alone are the passports to my good opinion." "I did not
mean to say that; I trust my other good qualities are so remarkable that you
have, in their favour, overlooked any little deficiencies which might otherwise
strike you in my manners." "Modest, truly! What is the income of the living
which his lordship presents to you?" "About a thousand a year, I believe, and a
very pretty country and pleasant neighbourhood. I have been there, and always
thought I should like it so very much." "I am quite sorry to leave this pretty
place though," said Emma looking at the Vicarage near which they were wandering;
"I am sure the other cannot have so pleasant a garden, nor so pleasant a little
drawing-room. Those were happy days when we were snowed up there." They then
went off into a long series of reminiscences and explanations through which it
would be useless, were it possible, to follow them. Emma spent one very happy
week at the Castle after her engagement; which was not the less agreeable to
every one concerned because both Lord Osborne and Miss Carr left it. He quitted
his house immediately after the conversation above recorded; and she then
decided that her visit had been long enough to such dreadfully dull people as
Rosa and her husband were become: so she took leave of her dear friends and
returned, unsuccessful, home. At the end of a week, Mr. Howard found it
necessary to go too; there was business connected with his new living which must
be attended to, and unwillingly he tore himself away. Mrs. Willis still
continued in Wales, for though Charles was better, and indeed daily gaining
strength, the physicians had so strongly recommended sea air for the re-
establishment of his health, that his mother had decided on spending the summer
on the sea-coast there. Howard's departure proved, however, only the prelude to
Emma's return to Croydon. Elizabeth's marriage was fast approaching, and she
pressed to see Emma again before that event. The idea of again becoming an
inmate of Robert's house was so very repulsive to Emma that she demurred from
that reason alone, and she was much more inclined to accede to Miss Bridge's
repeated invitations to return to Burton. But this Elizabeth urged would be
doing no good at all; fourteen miles would as effectually preclude daily
meetings as forty, and would be only tantalizing instead of comfortable. The
affair was at length arranged through the intervention of Mr. Bridge, who
invited both his sister and her young friend to take up their residence for a
time in his Vicarage at Croydon. And so it was settled at last, and after a
hundred kind words and caresses from Lady Gordon, and the most cordial good
wishes from her husband, Emma left the Castle, travelling, be it recorded, in
one of Sir William's carriages half the way, where she was to be met by Miss
Bridge's chariot, to convey her the latter half of the journey. With no accident
and no adventure she reached Croydon, and of course received a far warmer
welcome than when she had formerly made the same journey. Elizabeth was waiting
to receive her—her face was seen through the flowers in the drawing-room window,
and she reached the entrance door, and ran down the steps to open the carriage
before the fat, well-powdered footman had time to put on his livery coat. She
led her sister into the house, and in the passage pushed back the bonnet and the
dark curls from her cheeks, to see if she was as pretty as ever. Then, before
leading her into the drawing-room, she paused again to make her guess who she
would find there. Emma suggested Mr. and Miss Bridge. "You little goose,"
replied Elizabeth, "as if I should have thought it worth while to make you guess
that!" Then throwing open the door she ushered her in, and in another moment
Emma was clasped in the arms of her dear brother Sam. This was a very unexpected
pleasure—she had hoped to see him certainly, but never for a moment anticipated
meeting him so soon. It was the joint kindness of Miss Bridge and Elizabeth; the
one well remembering the affectionate terms in which Emma always spoke of her
brother had been suggesting the possibility of his coming, and the other eager
to carry out the plan had persuaded George Millar to ask him to his house for
the week preceding the wedding. He had arrived that very afternoon, and after an
introduction to his future brother, had accompanied Elizabeth to meet Emma. Emma
had much to communicate to Sam; besides her own prospects she had matters which
must be interesting to him as concerning himself. A farewell visit which she had
paid to the Edwards had brought another engagement to her knowledge. Mary
Edwards was soon to be married to Captain Hunter. She found them _tête-à-tête_
in the parlour when she entered, and appearances were so very suspicious, that
even without the direct information which Mrs. Edwards subsequently whispered to
her, she would have concluded her brother's cause to be lost. Mrs. Edwards
appeared on the whole better reconciled to the match than Emma, from her early
recollections, would have supposed. Perhaps she had discouraged Mary's
partiality for the Captain, from a doubt of his sincerity, which was now
removed; or perhaps finding herself in the minority, she had given up her
previous objections, because it was no use to persist in them; whatever were her
feelings, she had received Emma's congratulations with a good grace, and Emma
hoped there was no ill-will implied in the message of compliments which she
charged her to deliver to their old acquaintance Mr. Sam Watson. All this she
had to communicate to Sam, who listened with philosophy, and whistled _sotto
voce_ instead of an answer. Certainly the part which piqued him most was Mrs.
Edwards' message; for some time indeed he had almost despaired of Mary's
affection, but he could not bear that the mother who had never been his friend,
should suppose he cared at all about it. There seemed nothing wanting to
complete the felicity of the happy party assembled at the Rectory of Croydon.
Perhaps indeed Mr. Howard would not have been flattered had he supposed this the
case; but so it really was; Emma had parted from him so recently that she hardly
felt the want of his society yet, and the satisfaction of knowing herself
beloved was at present sufficient for her repose of mind. The agitations and
anxieties of suspense were over, and were followed by a calmness and peace of
mind which seemed all that she could require. She had now as much to hear as to
tell, for Sam had been to Chichester, and seen Penelope and her husband, had
arranged the plan for his future establishment, and his prospects were of a very
bright character. Could he only have commanded a couple of thousand pounds,
besides what he possessed, there would have been no difficulty at all in
stepping into a comfortable house and flourishing business. As it was, the
prospects which Penelope promised him should be realized in a short time, were
sufficient to raise his mind and ease his spirits. CHAPTER XVI. The next morning
Emma had a succession of visitors. Miss Millar was among the first and gayest of
the number. She came up with Sam immediately after breakfast, to spend a long
day, and expressed great satisfaction at seeing her again. "You cannot think how
dreadfully dull I have been," said she, "almost ever since you went away. George
being in love is the stupidest thing in the world. Formerly when he had done
with his business, and escaped from his offices he used to be glad of my society
and would read or walk when I wanted him, but now all that is quite changed, and
if I do get a speech from him once in a week I am taught to consider it a great
favour. Upon my word it is a sad disease." "They say it is infectious," said
Emma, laughing. "Oh I trust not," cried Annie quite seriously, "I hope I shall
escape the infection, I have such a horror of the whole thing. I beg the pardon
of all such of the present company who may be engaged, but I think that people
in love are very ridiculous." "Can you always discern at the first glance when
they have the disease," enquired Miss Bridge good-humouredly. "Yes I think I
can—but happily it leaves no marks, and when it is passed, people may be as
amiable as before. But it's a sad thing that young people should be so
constantly exposed to the danger. I hope you will keep clear Emma, in spite of
the atmosphere to which you have removed." "Is it worse than when I was here two
months ago?" enquired Emma, secretly smiling at her young friend's remarks. "We
shall soon see," replied Annie; "if there were any one to fall in love with
here, I am certain you would be in a dangerous position." "Well, why should you
except me?" said Mr. Bridge, "here I am a bachelor, why may I not aspire to be
considered as a dangerous individual?" "You, my dear Mr. Bridge—because you are
engaged to me; you know you long ago promised to marry me yourself," replied
Annie. "I am flattered at your remembering our engagement, young lady, but I am
astonished that you are left so long to me without competition; I think you must
be something like Beatrice." "No, I never had lovers to mock," said she, "except
Mr. Alfred Fremantle, and he is the facsimile of Sir John Suckling's constant
lover, or rather he resembles him in constancy, but has none of his wit to
express it. What is it he says—

"I have been in love three days,      And shall be three days more." "I cannot
remember the words exactly, but it is something to that effect." Sam turned
round from the window, and repeated the lines to which Annie alluded. She looked
astonished. "How came you to know them?" said she. "I read them amongst his
poems," was his answer. "I thought you were a surgeon, Mr. Samuel Watson," said
she still in amazement, "and though never doubting that you knew a great deal of
anatomy and such things, did not expect you would be acquainted with love
poetry." "And is it to want of taste or want of time, Miss Millar, that you
would attribute my imaginary ignorance?" "I do not wish to offend you, but
certainly I had expected a surgeon's tastes to be different; and I should have
referred a case of dislocation or fracture to you, with much more faith than a
failure of memory." "You thought I could mend your finger better than a broken
verse, and that though I might make you whole, I should make a line halt—was
that it?" "I believe it was, and my amazement is so great, I do not know when I
shall recover," replied she saucily. "I know you always had a strong prejudice
against the medical profession," said Mr. Bridge smiling, "you considered one
specimen the type of the whole class." "I am delighted to hear it," exclaimed
Sam, "I like of all things to meet with prejudiced people, one has such a
pleasure in disputing with them; good, strong prejudices are delightful things,
they are so constantly changing their color and complexion; for I have often
observed a strong dislike converted into a decided approbation, whilst the owner
is unaware of the change, and gravely assures you he never alters his mind."
"That must be a man's prejudice, Mr. Watson," said Annie, "women are much more
consistent. I have hated doctors, surgeons and apothecaries ever since I was
five years old, and Mr. Morgan gave me some _bon-bons_ which made me sick. I
have always distrusted them since that." "I am not at all surprised," said Sam,
with much gravity; "such an offence was unpardonable, and well deserves to be
visited on the whole of the medical profession by your unchanging and
unmitigated contempt. After this we cannot allow your dislike to be called a
prejudice!" "Is your brother always as impertinent to every young woman as he is
to me?" enquired Annie, turning to Emma, "he seems determined to quarrel with
me—has he naturally a bad temper?" "Really I do not know," replied Emma, "I have
seen so little of him, and never with any other young ladies; do you imagine
want of temper a necessary accompaniment to his profession?" "Oh no, I am not
quite so bad as that," said she laughing, "doctors ought to be particularly
bland and insinuating, able to make all the bitter realities they inflict on
one, pass easily under the sweetening cover of a smile and honied words." They
were interrupted by the arrival of other visitors. Emma having just arrived from
a prolonged visit to Lady Gordon at Osborne Castle, was likely to become a very
popular character at Croydon; there was so much virtue comprised in the
friendship of a baronet's wife, and as it was whispered, the admiration of her
brother; for accounts of his visit to Croydon had been whispered abroad, and
such an act could only be attributed to one motive. All her former acquaintance
looked on her as a baroness elect, and all began to find out what a very
charming girl they had always thought her. They would not for the world neglect
calling on that sweet, amiable Emma Watson. They were so delighted to see her
back again; they were so eager that she should make a long stay amongst them
all. Croydon would be so gay with all that was going on. The three Miss Watsons
had been such a very great addition, it had never been like itself since they
came. Amongst her visitors were her sister-in-law and niece. Emma was really
glad to see the little girl, who clung to her and begged her to come back again
very soon, as she had no one to teach her now so nicely as she had been used to
do. "My dear Emma," cried Jane, "how delighted I am to see you again, and so
blooming as you are looking; upon my word, I really begin to see what Mr. Morgan
once said of our likeness. I hope you left your kind friends at the Castle
well—charming young man Lord Osborne; nothing of hauteur or pride about him. He
seemed quite at home with me—but, to be sure, when people have lived in the same
sort of society, they acquire a sort of ease towards each other. I cannot make
out that he knew my uncle, Sir Thomas, but he reminded me very much of some of
the young men that I used to see at his house." Here she paused, and Emma,
thinking some sort of remark necessary, and yet not having the least idea what
she was expected to reply to, only ventured to enquire for her brother. "Mr.
Watson? oh, he is well enough, I believe! I have not seen him this morning,
however, for he breakfasted early with Elizabeth; I believe, if he can, he will
come and see you some day, but indeed, Emma, you must come to us. We have plenty
of room, and should you have any friends coming, we could easily accommodate
them too. I would not mind putting myself to any inconvenience for your sake, my
dear." "I am sure I feel much obliged, but at present I mast decline your
offers," said Emma, trying to speak with warmth. "Oh, no, not at all, I assure
you, you could expect nothing less from us; _we_, you know, are your nearest
relations, and under certain circumstances, _we_ may naturally be expected to
show our approbation and patronage; every young woman has a claim on her own
family; so you will certainly come back to us." "Indeed I must decline Jane,"
said Emma firmly, "at least, for the present." "And indeed, dear, I will not
take a refusal, so I shall certainly get a room ready for you, and another shall
be prepared for a friend whenever it is needed. Did you leave Lord Osborne at
the Castle, did you say?" Emma replied in the negative of course. "Really, for
so young a man," continued Mrs. Watson, "his air and manner were remarkable; so
exceedingly high-bred and aristocratic. I have seldom seen manners which
delighted me more, I assure you. Don't blush so, my dear," added she, making
believe to whisper; "nobody here knows anything about him, except you and me."
"Then allow me to suggest that, as a reason for dropping the subject," said
Emma, "and recurring to some one more generally interesting." "La, my dear,"
laughed Jane, "it looks very suspicious, your not choosing to talk of him.
However, if you don't like it, I will say no more—I would not vex you for the
world, my dear sister—what a sweet pretty gown that is you have on; Lady
Gordon's choice, beyond a doubt." "No, indeed," replied Emma, smiling, "but I
dare say Miss Bridge remembers choosing it for me, whilst we were at Burton."
"What sort of bonnets are most in fashion, Emma?" asked Jane, "Elizabeth's
wedding bonnet is, to my taste, vastly ugly; not that I pretend to be a judge at
all,—though I used to be thought to have some taste—but I dare say, she was
quite right not to take my advice; one must not expect to be always judged
candidly—every one cannot see one's merits; so I am not surprised—how are heads
worn now?" Emma tried to recall and describe some of the bonnets she had seen at
Lady Gordon's _fête_, but Mrs. Watson pronounced her description unsatisfactory,
wished she had been there to see it, and wondered Margaret had never thought of
asking her over for that day. She might have done it so easily, Jane was sure,
and considering how very kind Jane had been to Margaret, and how large a share
Robert had had in bringing about her marriage, she thought it was the least she
could have done, to shew her gratitude and mark her sense of former favors. Emma
tried to excuse Margaret, but fortunately, before she had wasted much eloquence
in that way, Jane perceived it was time to withdraw. No sooner was she out of
the room than Sam returned from the window where he had ensconced himself during
her visit, and exclaimed:

"Really, I hope it is not very wicked, but that woman puts me more out of
patience than all the rest of the world of Croydon put together." "The rest of
the world of Croydon is infinitely obliged to you," said Annie Millar, walking
up to him; "allow me, sir, as its representative, to make you a grateful curtsey
on the occasion. You can bear with us all better than with your sister-in-law?"
She made him a saucy curtsey as she spoke, looking exceedingly pretty as she did
so. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself for such a speech, Sam," said Emma, at
the same moment; "I am sure she meant to be kind." "Yes, but who did she mean to
be kind to, Emma? was it to Emma Watson or some imaginary future baroness,"
replied Sam. "Why should I enquire into motives, or attribute a bad ones? She
might have been just the same if Lord Osborne had never existed." "I do not
believe it," persisted he. "Your brother wants to see how violent prejudices
become him," said Annie Millar, "do not argue with him—he does not deserve it."
"Miss Millar is angry with me for the implied reflection on Croydon," said he,
"but I knew she had not been brought up here, and never thought of her as
belonging to the place." "And what do you know of Croydon, to give you so dark
an opinion of its inhabitants?" enquired she, "I do not think we slander, or
court here worse than in other places." "I have heard a great deal about you
all, from my two sisters," replied he; "Emma especially, gave me lively pictures
of your proceedings. I was well acquainted with you and your irreconcileable
prejudices against unfortunate surgeons several months ago. "Oh! you used to
correspond with Emma, did you?" said she. "To be sure I did; would not you write
to your brother, Miss Millar?" "Perhaps I might—but I do not think he would read
it if I did—especially if I crossed the letter! George is not fond of letters!"
"But you like them yourself?" "Oh yes! I should like to have seen Emma's to you.
I am sure they would have been very interesting—does she not write very clever
letters?" "_I_ used to think them interesting and clever—but, perhaps, that was
because I am only a surgeon, and could not be expected to have either taste or
judgment," replied he, with mock humility. "Oh, but I think you might have both
on _that_ subject—your admiring Emma's letters is decidedly a proof of it."
"Even though I am a surgeon?" "Yes, even though you are a surgeon." "And though
you have never seen any of those letters, the liking which secures your
approbation?" "Ah! you are too clever for me—you want to make me contradict
myself, or something of that sort—but I will not argue with you, and then you
cannot prove me wrong." "You need not say you _will_ not—you _cannot_ argue; no
woman can, they can only feel, and express those feelings." "And taking the
converse of your proposition, Mr. Samuel Watson, I presume that men surpass us
so much in argument, because they have _no_ feelings. Am I to infer that?" "We
have them, but we guide them, not they us. It is exactly the reverse with you,
and you never see more than one side of a question," replied he, in the most
straightforward manner possible. "Yes; you have some feelings very apparent,"
replied she, "contempt for women is evidently a prominent one." "Contempt, Miss
Millar! no indeed, you do me injustice, if you think so—but, perhaps, you
imagine that a part of my profession?" "I certainly think it one that hardens
all the feelings," said she turning away and thus putting a stop to the
conversation. It had been settled that the whole vicarage party were to dine at
the Millars' that afternoon, and it now became time for those who did not belong
to it, to return home to prepare for dinner. Elizabeth Watson, her brother, and
Miss Millar accordingly set off together. Elizabeth taking Sam's arm, and Annie
walking on her other side; they made the passage with scarcely a syllable
passing between them; and as the Millars' house was nearer the vicarage than the
residence of the Robert Watsons, Annie left them at the door of her house. "What
do you think of Annie Millar?" cried Elizabeth eagerly, as she and her brother
proceeded together. "Is she not charming?" "Yes, she is a very fine girl,"
replied he quietly. "Oh, Sam," continued Elizabeth, "I do so wish you would like
her; I have always thought she was exactly suited to you. She will have twenty
thousand pounds of her own, and I am sure she is much better worth liking than
Mary Edwards." Elizabeth, in her open-hearted zeal for Sam's welfare, never for
a moment reflected that she was taking the most probable way to prejudice him
against her, since there is nothing which in general has more influence that way
than a sister's praises; whilst the surest means to interest a man's favor for
any young woman, is to abuse or find fault with her. True to his feelings as a
man, Sam of course replied:

"If you reckon her merits by her pounds, I dare say she is, but I do not see
otherwise in what she surpasses Mary Edwards." Fortunately they had just arrived
at the termination of their walk, and Sam having seen his sister safely
deposited in the house, returned alone to George Millar's residence. The evening
was a very merry one, for the whole party was well assorted and in good spirits,
in spite, as Annie observed, of the tremendous event hanging over some of them.
But it was not Elizabeth's nature to be very pensive; positive evils did not
make her sad, it was not likely then that what she firmly believed to be a
positive good, would weigh heavily on her spirits. She was perfectly satisfied
with her future prospects, and could look forward without any trembling emotion
to her approaching fate. After dinner, when the ladies had returned to the
drawing-room, Elizabeth, who was burning with anxiety to make known the fact of
Emma's engagement, began enquiring of Annie, if she thought her sister changed
since her visit to Osborne Castle. Miss Millar declared she was looking better,
plumper, gayer, prettier than ever; but in no other respect was she altered.
"Then you do not suspect her of having fallen in love?" enquired Miss Watson
laughingly. "I see no trace of it," said the other, examining Emma from head to
foot with a grave air, taking a candle from the chimney-piece to throw more
light on her countenance. "I see no symptoms at all, pray do not attempt to
raise such unfounded imputations against her, Elizabeth; your insinuations
disgrace you!" "Nay then, in my own justification I must inform you,
Annie,—shall I tell, Emma—or do you blush to own the truth?" enquired Miss
Watson with a significant smile. "Not that she is engaged to that Lord Osborne!"
cried Annie, starting back with horror, "you are not going to confirm the rumour
which Miss Jenkins and Mrs. Watson so industriously circulate, and that brought
Miss Morgan and Miss Fenton to call on her to-day. This can never be." "My dear
Annie," said Emma smiling quietly, "_that_ Lord Osborne, as you call him, is a
very estimable young man, and would make any woman who liked him very happy I
have no doubt." "Indeed! well I hope he will, if you are going to marry him,"
said Annie with a mournful countenance and expression, that made Elizabeth laugh
out-right, "but in that case, when you are Lady Osborne, we shall never see you
again." "I dare say not," replied Emma, "but, believe me, I never intend to be
Lady Osborne, so your alarm is unfounded." "And you are not engaged to him, and
you are free—oh, how glad I am—I was sure you could not be," cried Annie quite
rapturously. Emma looked at Elizabeth and said,

"Finish the story, as you began it." "Well then, Annie, I am sorry to lower your
opinion of my sister, but as the fact must come sooner or later to your
knowledge, and you seem now tolerably prepared to receive it, I have to make to
you the distressing announcement that Emma is in reality engaged to be married,
though not to Lord Osborne, who is not the only man in the world I assure you."
"Emma engaged to be married," said Annie with a desponding look, "then _I_ have
no hope; the next thing I shall hear, is that my hand is disposed of; we shall
none of us escape it. Dear Miss Bridge, how did you manage?" "I would not
recommend you to wish for my fate, my dear, I had a bitter disappointment,"
replied the old lady with extraordinary placidity. "My dear madam," said Annie
respectfully, and taking her hand as she spoke, "I beg your pardon a thousand
times, but I assure you I did not know that, or I would not have jested on the
subject." "My dear child, the thing is too long passed to hurt my feelings now,"
said Miss Bridge smoothing down Annie's glossy hair as she inclined her head
towards her; "but I do not think you would wish to buy my present peace of mind
by undergoing all I have felt and suffered." A pause ensued, which Mrs. Turner
was the first to break. "Well Elizabeth, do tell us what is the name of your
sister's young man—who is he and what is he? I am longing to know all about it."
Elizabeth told them all she knew, and when she added that Lord Osborne had
recently given him a valuable living, Emma enquired whether she was not right in
saying that Lord Osborne was an estimable young man. "What, because he has
livings to dispose of?" said Annie. "I suppose he could not help that." Emma was
silent, but Elizabeth exclaimed,

"Oh! but you must understand that Lord Osborne was in love with her, and
therefore, as he could not marry her himself, it was very generous of him to
give his rival an income to enable _him_ to do so." "Elizabeth!" said Emma
reproachfully. "Emma tries to make a mystery of it," continued her sister; "I
cannot get her to own that Lord Osborne proposed to her; but I am sure if he did
not, it was because she accepted Mr. Howard before he had time to do so." The
gentlemen at this juncture returned to the drawing-room, for neither of the
three seemed disposed to prefer the bottle to the ladies, and Annie sat down to
prepare tea. Sam approached the table, which was a little removed from the
others, and tendered his assistance if necessary. She did not accept or decline
his offer, but looked a little confused; he could not decide whether she was
angry or vexed, and stood quietly by considering her countenance, and aiding her
whenever she required more water from the elegant silver kettle which swung over
a spirit-lamp in the place of our modern urn. At length, when the others seemed
engrossed with their tea and conversation, she raised her head and said, with a
little embarrassment,

"I certainly owe you some apology, Mr. Watson, for the incivility of my last
speech to you this afternoon. I am quite shocked to think I should have been so
rude." "Indeed, Miss Millar, I was not affronted, for I had known your opinion
before, and I thought the apologies were rather due from me, since, though quite
unintentionally, I had given you the idea that I entertained a contempt for
women. I did not deserve that accusation, but my expressions must have been
wrong, if they awoke such an idea." Annie could not help feeling that even a
surgeon might look very handsome, and that _his_ tone and manner might convey
the conviction of his perfect sincerity: she liked him, in spite of his
profession. "Seriously, Mr. Watson, I should never accuse you of anything of the
sort," returned she after a moment's reflection; "so I suppose we may pass an
amnesty for past offences, and declare a truce for the present." "Let it be a
treaty of peace," said he playfully; "permanent peace." "No," she replied
shaking her head; "that would be promising too much. I shall be certain to
quarrel with you again, and it does not do to break treaties. Do you know I was
never, as a child, so much inclined to be naughty as when I had just promised to
be very good. Let us content ourselves with a four hours' truce, renewable or
not at the end of that time." "Be it so," replied he laughing, "if you think
that the safest proceeding or the most agreeable. So you were a naughty girl,
were you, at school?" "Oh, always in a scrape—the torment of my governess," said
she laughing at the recollection. "They used gravely to shake their heads, and
say they did not know what would become of me; I should never be good for
anything; so idle—so rebellious—so mischievous—so saucy—and withal so merry and
happy—I always got my own way with them all." "And what did you learn at school,
may I ask?" "First to play at battledore and shuttle-cock, and repeat 'I love my
love with an A,' &c.—then to dance—I liked that—then to do cross-stitch, tent
and marking—I worked a magnificent sampler, which I will show you some day. Then
I learnt my letters and to read, because they promised me some fairy tales if I
would try. The next accomplishment I acquired was to do a sum in the rule of
three, for which I was rewarded with 'Sir Charles Grandison,' in seven volumes.
I do not know that I learnt anything else, except the way to govern all my
companions, coax my superiors—oh, and write a letter." "Well, I think it must
have been a very good school, and if ever I have daughters they shall be sent
there too. I admire the system exceedingly." "Yes, I think it was a very good
school," replied Annie; "to be sure, I learnt nothing worth knowing, and a great
deal which I had better have let alone: one sees a prodigious deal of meanness,
and manœuvring, and artful conduct when thirty or forty girls are assembled
together; but I suppose it is all right, since it has gone on for so many
generations, and I do not know that women are worse than they used to be before
they ever pretended to learn. We do not expect to rival Lady Jane Grey, or Queen
Elizabeth, or the daughters of Evelyn, and I dare say if we did, we should only
be disliked and ridiculed. No doubt it is quite right that women should be idle
and frivolous; it keeps us in our right places in the world." She spoke with
something in her tone between jest and bitterness, to which Sam hardly knew how
to answer. "I protest against your giving the conversation such a turn; it is
breaking our truce," said he, "you must either speak in complete jest, or
serious earnest. I shall be getting into a scrape again with you, if I answer
now, for I do not know which you mean." "Let it pass for a jest then, lest you
should think me seriously discontented with my position in society," replied
she, "and in the meantime, give me Miss Bridge's teacup to replenish!" "She is
an odd girl," thought he, "I wonder in what light she looks upon me!" "After
all, for a surgeon, he really is pleasant," thought she, "it is a pity he has
such a bad profession, I am quite sorry for him." It was with these feelings
that they sat down to cards; after which, of course, they had no more private
conversation until the company had left the house. CHAPTER XVII. The week that
preceded Elizabeth's wedding, seemed extremely short to the whole of the parties
immediately concerned; every day was occupied with some excursion for their
amusement, and every evening was passed at the house of some friendly
acquaintance, who would not be refused the pleasure of their company. Nobody, at
this epoch, was more popular than the future Mrs. George Millar; since her
neighbours could not prevent her marriage, they were determined to extract as
much pleasure from the occurrence as possible. For this end they gave a number
of tea-parties to welcome her brother and say good-bye to her sisters, and learn
as much as they could of the future plans and prospects of each. The handsome
Mr. Samuel Watson, with his lively manners, promising prospects, and probable
disengaged heart, was really a most interesting object; and since Emma was
supposed to be engaged, and there was no further ground for her exciting
jealousy, she was allowed, on all hands, to be uncommonly handsome and agreeable
too. Nothing, therefore, was omitted, which could express their favourable
opinion of the whole family, or their anxiety to be on good terms with them all.
It was no particular misery to Jane that, whilst every one else was pressing for
their company, there was not one day left disengaged for her. She liked a great
better to be invited to meet them, as she was every evening: for, unless she
could quite outshine all her neighbours in the elegance of her entertainment,
she preferred giving none at all; and as it happened that Robert was in a stingy
mood, she had, with difficulty, extracted from him sufficient money to buy the
very handsome gown and bonnet in which she was to appear at the wedding. At all
these parties where, of course, the Millars regularly met the Watsons, Sam still
contrived to be a great deal with Annie,—but the most favourable opportunities
for intercourse, were during their long rambles in the country. Then he was
always her cavalier, and they quarrelled and laughed together without
interruption. Her spirits seemed as inexhaustible as her strength; she could
both walk and talk for miles without mental or bodily exhaustion, and often
tired out all her companions except Sam. It was no wonder then, when he paid her
the compliment of untiring attention, and unvarying amusement, that she should,
in her turn, find him a most delightful companion, infinitely more agreeable
than any one she had ever known. No more was heard about his profession—she
forgot it entirely, and only considered him in the light of a very pleasant
acquaintance. It was natural that, during some of their many engagements, Emma
should again meet Mr. Morgan; and equally natural that she should feel some
embarrassing recollections at doing so. A bow was all that their situation, at
the first moment of meeting, allowed to pass between them; but, when by a
movement amongst her neighbours, a vacant seat, and the power of reaching it
allowed him, he did not hesitate to avail himself of the opportunity, and place
himself by her side. There was nothing of restraint or embarrassment in his
manner—no appearance of consciousness or shame; he did not know, perhaps, how
much their joint names had been made the subject of gossip and scandal—she
thought so for a moment, but then, from what she remembered, she knew he must
have been aware of it; then she felt angry at his impudence; but finally, she
concluded that, after all, he was taking the wisest course; and that to converse
quietly, as if nothing had passed to raise an unpleasant feeling, would be, on
the whole, the conduct least calculated to excite attention. Calm and polite as
she was, he was sensible of a difference in her manners from past days, and he
did not indulge a hope of regaining her confidence; but it wounded his vanity to
suppose that she, amongst all the women of his acquaintance, beheld him with
calm dislike; whilst he could not even to himself deny her superiority over the
many whose approbation or admiration constantly followed his footsteps. If he
could not regain her friendship he wanted at least to excite some emotion in her
mind, and call up one of her former smiles so full of brightness and feeling.
With the tact which gave him half his popularity, he hit upon the subject most
likely to awaken kind sentiments in her heart; he began praising her brother.
The introduction had given him so much pleasure, he was, he would not say
astonished, but certainly most agreeably surprised to find Mr. Samuel Watson so
very superior a young man. There was no likeness to Mr. Watson—no—he could not
compliment his good friend, Robert, by saying that there was; seldom had he seen
two brothers more dissimilar; but her younger brother's manners were so
good—such a young man must make his way in the world, must be a favourite; there
was every probability of his success; nay, there was certainty of it: there was
intelligence and spirit in his eye, which promised nobly. Then he enquired
minutely into his prospects; entered with the warmth of a friend into the plan
for his establishing himself at Chichester, and gave several hints for his
benefit. Emma, in spite of her aversion to the speaker, and her determination
that nothing should make her admit even the semblance of mutual friendship in
their future intercourse, found herself speaking with unintentional warmth and
animation. She checked herself immediately, and a shade of vexation passed over
her countenance; which was not lost on her companion. Accustomed to study the
minds and inclinations of his various patients, his quickness at reading all the
little marks of feeling evinced in their countenances, enabled him pretty well
to appreciate the state of her mind; but when he proceeded on the same subject,
in hopes of once more inducing her to express her feelings, he was extremely
vexed to find that, after making him some short and trivial reply, she rose and
walked away. This movement marked a decided aversion on her part which piqued
him deeply, and for which he was not prepared. He remained in his seat, spoke to
no one else, and occupied himself, whilst he continued in the room, in
considering whether he no longer had any chance of regaining his influence with
her. He knew pretty well all that had passed, and all that had been whispered
about their former intimacy; but he thought that since all that had been set in
a favourable point of view, and her character perfectly cleared, she need not
now have been so cold and distant to him. If, as was whispered, she was engaged
to some one else, there was no reason for shunning him, unless, and the thought
actually thrilled his mind with delight, unless she had really preferred him,
and now feared to trust herself in his power. This would account for all her
conduct; her flight to Burton—her engagement itself, and her present shrinking
from him—all might be traced to the same source. His vanity was excited to the
highest pitch, as he thought of this interpretation, and he could believe her
quite capable of such strength of mind, and firmness of purpose. Other women
when they had liked him, had thrown themselves in his way, but it was perfectly
consonant with what he supposed her character to be, that she should follow a
precisely opposite course of conduct. If this were the case he felt sure he
might regain his former influence by a little dexterous management, and as a
first step towards it, he resolved to cultivate the friendship of her youngest
brother. Had he known that he was perfectly excluded from her regard by the
double barrier of a very ill opinion of himself, and a warm attachment to Mr.
Howard, he might have spared himself the trouble of the attempt. Towards the end
of the week a sort of gipsy party had been arranged to form an expedition to a
pretty park in the neighbourhood, which from the absence of the owner was a
frequent resort on such occasions. Mr. Morgan was not originally asked to join
it; but knowing what was going on, he presented himself at the door of George
Millar's house just before the company started, and his expressions of regret at
not having time to see more of Sam speedily produced a very hearty invitation
from Mrs. Turner, the chaperone of the party, to accompany them; for, as she
observed, "on such occasions the more the merrier." It was a very large party
without him. Mrs. Turner and the two Millars, four Watsons, for Jane was of the
party, with Alfred Freemantle as her escort, since her husband would not leave
the office, two cousins of hers, young ladies who had arrived the day before to
grace Elizabeth's wedding, Miss Bridge, and some young ladies, natives of the
town: in short they numbered fourteen without Mr. Morgan, but as ladies were in
the majority he was heartily welcomed by several of the party at least, if not
by those particular individuals whose favour he most desired. How the whole of
the party were disposed of in different vehicles, need not now be
particularised; there was variety at least in their equipages, and the power of
choice in arranging themselves. Sam was the charioteer of an "inside Irish car,"
which of course amongst its passengers numbered Annie Millar, and likewise Emma
Watson; Mrs. Robert Watson; two young cousins, completed this party, and
apparently made any addition impossible; but one of the girls, not liking to be
entitled to only a fifth part of the attention of any gentleman, suddenly
abdicated her seat in favour of Mr. Morgan, that she might enjoy the place of
third in a gig, under the escort of Alfred Freemantle. Nothing could have been
more consonant to his wishes, than this sudden piece of good luck which thus
befell Mr. Morgan: his gaiety was quite remarkable, but his judgment and tact,
were still more so. For he devoted himself at first to please the stranger, and
do the honors of the country to her; he was bent on making himself agreeable,
but it was in the most open and unsuspicious way. There was nothing of
tenderness or sentiment in his manners, nothing approaching to flirtation in his
address to Miss Hall, and to the others it was as perfectly correct, as if
dictated by Lord Chesterfield himself. Annie, indeed, was too much engrossed by
the driver to notice the intruder; she had no attention to bestow on any one
else; and had not the horse been particularly quiet and sagacious, and the road
remarkably smooth and straight, it is by no means unlikely that their drive
might have terminated abruptly under some hedge, so much more was Sam himself
occupied with the lady behind, than the road in front of him. Neither Miss Hall
nor Emma, however, made any complaint of his coachmanship; for Emma, being
opposite to Annie, enjoyed the full benefit of her lively remarks; and whilst
her neighbour confined his attention to his _vis-à-vis_, the proximity to him,
in which she unexpectedly found herself, did not discompose her at all, nor did
she feel any impatience for the termination of so agreeable a drive. When they
alighted in the park, which was the termination of their drive, they found most
of the company assembled before them, and separated into groups strolling about
on the borders of the artificial lake, a sail on which was one of their
projected pleasures. In consequence of this, these five were left together to
entertain each other, until the arrival of the whole party enabled them to
arrange their plans for the day's amusement. The point of rendezvous was an
ornamental boat-house, standing at one angle of the lake, embowered in fir
trees, and commanding a pretty view of the opposite banks, which were high and
woody. Miss Hall was, what was then more rare than now, a sketching young lady:
and her pencils were speedily produced. But she could not bear inspection whilst
taking her views, and unceremoniously desired the other four to walk away. It
was a proof of Sam's great good-nature to Emma, that he continued with her, and
declined the tempting opportunity of securing a comfortable walk with Annie
Millar, that he might not leave his sister with no other companion than Mr.
Morgan. Perhaps Miss Millar might not entirely appreciate this self-sacrifice on
his part, or possibly might not thank him for it, so much as Emma; certainly Mr.
Morgan, who had calculated on a different line of conduct, judging from the
evident admiration which Sam had previously testified for Annie, was very much
disappointed at it. He took care to keep close to Emma's side, ready to improve
any opportunity that might present itself; and thus they wandered about, without
thinking much of where they were going, or paying much attention to the really
pretty scenery around them. The consequence of this was, that they lost their
place in the boat, for being quite out of sight and hearing when it was ready,
their companions did not wait for them; and the intended sail had so entirely
escaped the memory of the quartet, that the first thing which recalled it to
their memory, was the sight of the boat, which caught their eyes just us they
gained the summit of an eminence commanding a view of the whole sheet of water
at their feet. Sam expressed a hope that Miss Millar was not vexed at this
incident. Annie protested that for herself she did not care about it, but she
should be very sorry indeed, if she had beguiled Emma from sharing in any
pleasure she would have enjoyed. Emma, on her side, was of opinion that they
were much more comfortable as they were; the boat seemed very much crowded, and
she thought to be squeezed in such a way that they could not move, nor even turn
their heads to contemplate the scenery, was not half so pleasant as sitting on
the green bank where they were resting so comfortably. "In parties of this
sort," said Mr. Morgan, "all depends on the company; an uncongenial companion
will spoil everything—even the finest landscape in the world." "Very true,"
replied Annie, quickly; "but how can one help that? One can not say to a
disagreeable person, 'Go away—you annoy and distress me!' One can only smile
politely and suffer internally." "You, I dare say, can smile whilst annoyed,"
observed Sam, "but I never can; whether I am happy or miserable, I show it
immediately." "Do you indeed," replied she, "I am sorry to hear that; I had been
hoping that the gloomy look and air of despondency with which you have treated
us, were your habitual manners, and might not really indicate the state of
intense suffering to which I suppose I must now attribute them." "I am certain
my looks have expressed my feelings accurately," replied he sturdily. "Very
well, I shall set my imagination to work to invent some romantic cause for the
dejection of spirits which you display. You are, probably, repenting over some
lost patient, whose end you hastened by your surgical arts." "I do not think you
ought to jest on such subjects," replied he, gravely; then, as she turned her
head towards him with an expression of surprise, he added, "Excuse my liberty of
speech. I quite forgot who I was speaking to." She was silent and looked down,
so that her bonnet concealed her countenance. He viewed her uneasily, and wanted
to know whether she was affronted—or from what other reason she maintained this
silence. Mr. Morgan saw all this; he could not read Annie's feelings exactly,
but he felt convinced that, had they, at that moment, been without witnesses,
some very tender scene would have ensued. He now took up the conversation by
observing, how much more beautiful the landscape would be in two months' time,
when the tints of autumn gave a little variety to the scenery. The dull, heavy
green of summer, he declared, reminded him always of mourning; it was so sombre.
He appealed to Emma, and she was compelled to reply. She had nothing to urge
against his preference for the autumnal tints—except, that their proximity to
winter gave them sadness, which, in themselves, they did not merit. "The sadness
of autumn is, however, compensated by the hopes of returning spring; we can bear
to part with the verdure, which we know will be restored in fresh beauty. In
that respect, how superior is inanimate nature, and our feeling of love for it,
to human friendship, or regard, or esteem." "I do not see that," said Emma. "Who
can tell when a faded friendship shall be renewed, or when a withered hope shall
again look flourishing and verdant. The blast of winter is certain to pass away,
and its consequences vanish with it—but the fatal breath of enmity—the chilling
effects of whispered malevolence—the poison of calumny—tell me Miss Watson, of a
cure for these, if you can." "I know of none, save patience and a good
conscience," replied Emma. "Yes, patience—one needs that, indeed, to bear what I
alluded to—when one sees the face which used to meet one with a smile, averted
gravely—the hand once freely extended, now drawn back—the kindly words, once
gushing out from the friendly heart, like water from a copious fountain,
exchanged for the slow and measured accents which freeze the heart, as they drop
out one by one; when one sees all this," he continued, lowering his voice, but
speaking with impressive energy; "and knows it to be the cold deadness of
feeling produced by the ill-will of others—the blighting words of malice—what
can one hope—to what spring shall one look forward? when may one expect the
young feelings of friendship to bud again?" "Depend upon it they will, unless
there is something more than unkind breath to check them. To pursue your
allegory, Mr. Morgan, if the plant of friendship wither irretrievably, it must
be because there is something wrong at the root, otherwise, it is certain once
more to revive." "I believe," said he, after a momentary pause, "my feelings are
deeper and more permanent, than those of most people." "Yours Mr. Morgan!"
interposed Annie, amazed, "I had no idea you were troubled with any thing of the
sort—when did you first find out that you had any feelings?" "Have I ever given
you cause to doubt it," enquired he, significantly. "Why, to own the truth,
though we have been so long acquainted," said she, "I cannot say that I ever
undertook to investigate the nature or extent of your feelings on any subject. I
had a sort of general idea that you had some; but of what quality I should have
been very much puzzled to say, except that I certainly should _not_ have thought
of constancy as your particular _forte_. However, I am willing to plead total
ignorance on the subject. Ignorance for which I alone am to blame, arising from
indifference and inattention." "You need hardly remind me of that, Miss Millar,"
retorted he with mock humility, "I am quite aware that I am too entirely an
object of indifference to you, for my feelings to be considered worth a moment's
attention." He walked away, as he spoke, to a short distance, and seemed
occupied in viewing the landscape from the brow of the hill on which he stood,
his features expressing an appearance of wounded feelings struggling with pride.
"You have hurt him, Annie," whispered Emma, "you are too severe." "At least he
wants to make us believe so," replied she softly, "but it's all
seeming—seeming—there is nothing real about that man." "Now I rather like him,"
said Sam, "he seems so kind and friendly towards me, I am quite indebted to him
for the interest which he has taken in my prospects, and the useful hints which
he has given me." "Did he recommend you to marry, Sam?" enquired Emma. "I did
not consult him on the subject, it is a point on which I should neither ask nor
take advice." "Bravo, Mr. Watson—a most spirited determination. It is a point of
so little consequence indeed, and one in which your own experience must be so
calculated to guide you, that no doubt your intention to reject all advice, is
most judicious and praise-worthy." "Are you of opinion that I am incompetent to
act for myself in such a case?" enquired he. "I shall tell you as I did Mr.
Morgan just now, I am ignorant and indifferent on that subject—and now _you_ can
go and walk on the other side of the hill—or if you think it will look more
picturesque, by the side of yonder angry gentleman." "No, Miss Millar, your
ignorance, and indifference shall not drive me from you; I would rather try to
enlighten the one and overcome the other." This, though whispered softly, seemed
to overpower her; she coloured deeply; rose from the bank where they were
sitting, and walked away to the side of an adjoining thicket, where she employed
herself in trying to gather some brier roses from the hedge. Sam watched her for
some minutes, then perceiving that in stretching forward to grasp a blossom, her
veil had become entangled in a thorny shrub, he started up, and in a moment was
at her side to aid and release her. Emma did not like to follow them, thinking
she should be in the way, and expecting that a few minutes would bring them
back. In the mean time Mr. Morgan looked round, and seeing her alone joined her.
He still affected to look hurt and sad, and Emma generously gave him credit for
more feeling than he deserved. "That volatile girl—" said he, and then stopped.
"You must not mind what she says," suggested Emma kindly, "I am certain she
sometimes speaks without thinking, but never from malice or ill will, even when
she seems severe." "She does not surprise me," replied he; "I am used to her
ways, and there is no change in _her_; she is always the same, it is
vacillations of friendship, variations of good opinion which I confess astonish
and pain me. And yet why should they—after all, the human mind is so liable to
error, so prone to seek misconstructions, so inclined to change and variation,
that nothing of the kind ought to surprise me." She was determined to be silent,
and occupied herself in wishing for the return of her brother and Annie, who had
strayed farther than she had expected, and were now out of sight. He was
disappointed at her silence, and changed the subject into an enquiry as to
whether she should make a long stay at Croydon. She told him she was only to
remain until her sister's marriage, which would, as he knew, very shortly occur.
"And then," said he, "may I ask where you are going—do you return to Osborne
Castle?" "Certainly not," replied she decisively, "I do not think I am likely to
go there at all. Sir William and Lady Gordon have taken a house in the
neighbourhood of his own property, and if I visit them, it will be there." "Then
where will be your home?" "At Burton, with Miss Bridge, for the present I
believe." "I trust _you_, with your talents and accomplishments, your taste and
your sensibility, are not doomed to pass your life as the companion of an
elderly lady, buried in an obscure country village, unknown and unadmired."
"There might be many worse positions in life, more disagreeable companions, and
more trying situations, Mr. Morgan," replied Emma with warmth. "Forgive me if my
interest for you has led me to express my feelings in an unauthorised way. _I_
cannot entirely forget the past, nor consign to oblivion all that I once flatter
myself was felt between us." She could not exactly tell what to answer him, for
she really hardly knew what construction to place upon his words. He paused for
a moment and then resumed. "Rumour was wrong then, when it asserted that there
were ties in contemplation, which would bind you closely to Osborne Castle—that,
in short, the young lord, doing justice to the merits which would grace a higher
rank, had sought to make you his wife." "I am not engaged to Lord Osborne, if
that is what you mean," said Emma calmly. "I had thought it strange indeed if a
young man so unformed, so bearish, so almost brutal, had known how to value,
much more to win, a jewel so bright and excellent." "I must beg, Mr. Morgan, if
you mention Lord Osborne's name at all, it may be in terms such as I may listen
to without offence. Pray remember that I am under obligations to that family,
for which it would be a bad return to hear, without remonstrance, such
aspersions cast on the head of it. But I must confess I see no reason why either
they or myself should form the subject of your interrogatories. You have no
claim either past or present, which can make these enquiries anything short of
impertinent, and I must beg they may cease entirely." She then walked a few
steps to see if she could obtain any view of her brother and friend, for whose
return she felt anxious. Nothing, however, was to be seen of them, and as she
paused, her companion was again at her side. "How unfortunate I am," said he in
a low tone, "it is constantly my fate to offend those for whom I feel the
deepest interest, and to be misunderstood on every occasion where my sentiments
are concerned. Interest, friendship, zeal, constantly carry me beyond the bounds
proscribed by cold custom and formality, and I am repulsed in a way which all
but annihilates me. At this moment _you_ are angry with me; have I sinned
unpardonably?" "I am not _angry_" said Emma, drily, "but I must beg that all
personal subjects of conversation may be dropped; we have neither sentiments nor
interests in common, and on all topics connected with feeling I must impose a
total silence." "Unfeeling, cruel girl," cried he, then seeing that she
resolutely walked away in the direction of the boat-house, where she concluded
the party must be now assembled, he followed her steps in haste, and placing
himself by her side, he continued in a low but emphatic tone,

"Emma Watson, why should you scorn my offers of friendship, and my professions
of regard? Why should you shun me as if I were some dangerous enemy? Do you
mistrust my word; or am I responsible for the silly gossiping of idle women? Did
I not warn you against it?—why then visit it on me? Or have I personally
offended you?—what have I done?—you will not speak—you try to elude me—nay, but
you _shall_ hear me; you _shall_ answer me by heaven!—Who has wronged me in your
opinion?" "Mr. Morgan, let go my hand—is _this_ honourable?—is this manly to
attempt to obtain an answer to impertinent enquiries by compulsion?—Let go my
hand—I tell you I will neither hear nor answer you!" "Emma, I was wrong—" said
he, softening his voice, but instead of releasing her hand, clasping it in both
of his, "I ought to know you better—I understand your heart and feelings—"

"You do no such thing, sir,—or you would not detain me here, or compel me to
listen to such language. Let me go—I command you." "Emma, your heart is no
longer your own—am I not right?—you _love_!" "And if I do—what concern is that
of yours?" retorted she. "Of _mine_, it is everything in the world to me—you
love _me_—deny it if you can." "Insolence!" exclaimed Emma, "unmanly insolence."
"No, it is not insolence, Emma, you look beautiful in scorn, but you need not
scorn _me_; I am your equal in birth and education—aye! and in taste and mental
qualities too—and happily possessed of the fortune which _you_ want. And I love
you, and tender all to you. You have done what no other woman ever did—for your
sake I would even stoop to the yoke of matrimony; so great is my love and
admiration for you. Now have I said enough—now you may venture to confess the
feelings long treasured in your heart—the love which I have long read in your
downcast eye, and averted smile—maiden modesty need no more compel you to
silence—speak, _my_ Emma—bless me with the words I am longing, panting to hear."
He advanced one step nearer as he spoke, and seemed about to pass his arm round
her waist, but Emma availed herself of the movement to snatch her hand from his,
and stepping back, whilst she cast on him a look of withering scorn, she
replied,

"Yes, you _have_ said enough, Mr. Morgan, to warrant _my_ speaking plainly—and I
_will_ speak—from what extraordinary perversion of reasoning, you have persuaded
yourself I loved _you_ I cannot tell, but I trust you will believe me once for
all—when I say _my_ feelings are entirely the reverse of yours—and when I add—I
_love_ and am _engaged_ to another." Mr. Morgan stepped back in his turn with an
air in which disbelief and bitter mortification struggled, with an attempt at
indifference and contempt. "Engaged—impossible—Emma, you are deceiving me—it is
a downright falsehood!" exclaimed he. "I must beg you to leave me," said she,
haughtily. "I am not accustomed to associate with those who accuse me of
falsehood—I can find my way alone." She had continued to walk on from the moment
she had declared her engagement, and she flattered herself she must be
approaching the boat-house, but as they had reached the low ground, and were
making their way amidst thickets intersected with narrow paths, they could not
see the building. "And it is for this," he exclaimed, presently, "that I stooped
to ask your hand—that I humbled myself as I never before did to woman, to be
scorned and rejected—false-hearted girl—true type of your weak and vacillating
sex—leading me to believe you preferred me, that you might spurn me from you
with disdain!" he approached one step nearer as he spoke, and his face wore a
look of malignity which absolutely frightened Emma—he saw it. "No, you need not
shrink from me—I am not so mad as to do you harm; you are safe under the
protection of the laws. I would not risk my freedom for all the girls in Surrey.
But I must speak my feelings—"

He had no time, however, to say more, for hurried footsteps were heard behind
them, and in another moment Sam was beside his sister. "My dearest Emma, I beg
ten thousand pardons, but I was so sorry that I left you—I assure you I had no
intention of doing so—only—only—Annie Millar persuaded me; but the moment we met
some one whom she could join, I ran back for you, and found you were gone—I am
very sorry. You are not angry with me?" "No," said Emma softly; "but I am very
glad you are come, dear Sam." He felt her hand tremble under his arm, and
looking in her face, perceived she was very pale. "You have walked too far, dear
Emma," said he affectionately; "you wanted my arm—how sorry I am. Why did not
Morgan support you?" He looked round, but the gentleman in question had taken
another path and was out of sight. Emma tried to speak, but instead of
articulating words, she only burst into tears, and astonished Sam by appearing
on the verge of a fit of hysterics. He had too much sense to press for an
explanation, but contented himself with making her sit down, removing her bonnet
and gloves, and supporting her till she was calm again. He then begged for some
explanation of her emotion: she said she was foolish: he admitted that was
possible, but only if she refused him all reasons for her conduct. She promised
to be more explicit some other time if he would only now give her back her
bonnet, allow her to make herself tidy, and rejoin the party. These very
reasonable requests could not be refused, and they returned to the boat-house
together, just as another division of their party entered it likewise;
consequently their appearance without Mr. Morgan created no surprise or remark.
He returned a short time after, quite calm and happy in appearance, and nothing
on either side transpired to attract the attention of the company, or give rise
to the smallest surmise that anything unusual had occurred. It was some comfort
to have to deal with so complete an actor, one who would betray nothing
undesirable, by word or deed. CHAPTER XVIII. After dinner Sam again drew Emma
aside and would not be satisfied till he had, by close questioning, extorted
from her everything that had passed. Nothing less than the exact words, so far
as she could remember them, would do for him; he supposed things twenty times
worse than the truth, unless she could assert, on her honour, the exact state of
the facts. She was quite miserable at telling him, because she could not get him
to own what he thought, or promise to take no further notice of the
circumstance. Instead of giving her the assurance she required, he sometimes
laughed and put her off with an evasive answer, sometimes frowned and resolutely
closed his lips—sometimes told her to go away for a foolish girl, and not meddle
with what did not concern her. She was certain he meditated more than he would
own, and her fears made her apprehend that any demand for explanation or apology
from Mr. Morgan, would produce a quarrel which must end in a challenge. With
wretched feelings she returned to the party. Here they found a rather noisy
scene. Alfred Freemantle and Mr. Morgan, having both elevated their spirits by
the great quantity of bad wine which they had imbibed at dinner, were trying to
induce some of the young ladies to accompany them in the boat, which was lying
near the shore. The two Miss Halls and Mrs. Robert Watson, were carrying on a
half-romping opposition to this plan, but evidently intending to yield their
consent after a proper opposition. Alfred Freemantle accused them of being
cowards, which the three ladies of course denied. "Come, then," cried Mr.
Morgan, catching her hand and dragging Mrs. Watson down the bank. "Come and shew
that you trust me!" George Millar turned to Sam, and said softly,

"Morgan is half drunk—can you not prevent your sister going with him." "I have
no influence with either," said Sam, coolly, "perhaps you could dissuade her
better than I!" George followed her, and drawing her back, whispered something
in her ear, which was not communicated to the others, but which seemed to have
some effect upon her. She paused a moment, and then returning to the others
said,

"I think you are right, George Millar, it will not agree with me so soon after
dinner. I shall not go." "And if you do not, Jane," said Miss Hall, "I am sure
neither my sister nor I shall venture—it would be quite improper without a
chaperone." "I think you are very wise," observed Miss Bridge, quietly. "I know
what it is," cried Alfred, "you think we cannot manage the boat, but you are
quite mistaken, as you shall see. I am not drunk, though you think we are; we
will go without you!" As he said these words he sprang on board after Mr.
Morgan, who was already there, and they pushed off from the shore, and rowed a
little way. Presently two of the other young ladies called to them to enquire
where they were going. Mr. Morgan replied that they were going to land on a
little island opposite to smoke a cigar—would they come? The girls acceded to
the proposition; and, contrary to the advice of the whole party, persisted in
their determination. The boat returned to take them on board, and no sooner
where they seated, than Alfred amused himself by making the boat roll in the
water, in order to frighten them. Had they sat still, there would have been no
danger—but in their alarm they both started up, and catching hold of him at the
same moment, they all three fell heavily against the gun-wale and upset the boat
at once. A loud scream from the party on shore was, of course, the first effort
of their sympathy. The two other gentlemen simultaneously rushed into the water,
and without much difficulty, succeeded in rescuing the two ladies—for the
accident had happened so close to the shore, that it was not out of their depth.
Alfred Freemantle likewise rose, and scrambled towards the bank, up which he
crept a deplorable object. The young women of course, excited the greatest
sympathy, and none but Emma, at the first moment, remembered that there had been
a fourth person in the boat. But she had kept her eyes on the place where he had
sunk, and saw, with horror, that there was no trace of him—he did not reappear.
"Mr. Morgan," she exclaimed, "what has become of him?" Every one turned at the
name, from the dripping objects round which they had been crowding—ejaculations
on every side were heard. "True, Morgan! he has sunk—he is drowning! good
heavens! can you do nothing? Call for help! run for the boatmen!" and twenty
other exclamations. "Watson, we must look for him," said George. Sam's coat was
off before he had done speaking. "But we must be cautious," continued Millar,
"he may be sunk in a hole, or entangled in the weeds—the bottom is very foul."
"Where did he sink," cried Sam, "did any one see." Emma pointed out, as well as
she could, the spot where he had disappeared, and watched, with breathless
anxiety, whilst the two swam round and round, and dived again and again. His hat
was floating on the water at a little distance; but no sign or trace of him
appeared. One of the party had summoned the boatmen, who, after much delay
brought drags and hooks, and having succeeded in righting the boat, they did
their utmost to discover the missing man; but they did not seem to have much
expectation of success; they said they knew it was a dangerous part of the bank;
that there was a deep hole just thereabouts, into which the gentleman had
probably sunk, and that many years ago, a similar accident having happened, had
occasioned the former owner of the place, to forbid boating there at all. But
his son had, for some years, allowed it, though they should not wonder if he
were to shut it up now from the public. Their conjectures on the subject might
have lasted a long time before any one interrupted them, for the whole party
were too horror-stricken to speak. The dripping and the dry alike stood together
in motionless excitement, or intense anxiety, watching the result of their
efforts. It seemed impossible, that one but lately so full of life and spirit,
one of themselves—one who had for so long a time belonged to them, could have
thus suddenly disappeared without warning, and have left no vestige behind. It
was too horrible—to perish before their eyes, and from so trivial a cause. For
many minutes, the extremity of their feeling was shown by their total silence;
then, when the conviction was forced on them, that he was really lost,
hysterical sobs and screams were heard, especially from the two girls, who had
been the immediate cause of the accident, and who, shocked at their own share of
the misfortune, shivering with cold, convulsed with horror, and in every way
overcome, now demanded the attention of such of the party, as had any sense or
self-possession left. Fortunately the carriages were at this moment announced,
and the only possible thing to do, as they were far from all assistance, was for
the sufferers to be wrapped in such cloaks as could be found amongst them, and
conveyed back to Croydon as speedily as possible. Neither George nor Sam would
consent to leave the place, whilst a shadow of a hope remained that the body
might be recovered, but they insisted that their sisters should return home at
once, as they proposed, when all was over, if the search was unsuccessful, to
walk to a public-house on the outskirts of the Park, and dry themselves there,
before returning to Croydon. Emma had the presence of mind to propose that a
carriage and a supply of dry clothes should be despatched there to meet them, by
the first of the party that arrived at home. Under the escort of Miss Bridge's
manservant, instead of Sam, Elizabeth, Emma, Annie, and Miss Hall, returned in
the vehicle which had borne them so gaily and light-hearted to the Park. But
little conversation passed, and the few words which were said, had no reference
to the fatal event; it was too recent and too shocking to speak of. To Emma,
indeed, after what had so lately passed between them, the circumstance seemed
beyond description or imagination terrible. The angry feelings with which they
had parted, the malevolence he had expressed, and the evident state of half-
intoxication, to which he had perhaps resorted to drown his disappointed
feelings, and conceal his chagrin and mortification, all seemed to rise up, as
if to reproach her conscience. Why had she been so scornful and so bitter;
perhaps, had she answered more mildly, had she shown less contempt and more
compassion, he might still have been alive, all this might not have happened. It
appeared like a horrid dream altogether, their angry dispute—Sam's indignation,
and her fears for him, and finally, Mr. Morgan's sudden disappearance, all had
passed so rapidly, that she could scarcely feel it a reality. One thing she was
resolved—she would never join a large, mixed pleasure-party again; it was
impossible that real satisfaction could be found in such society, and so far as
her experience went, they seemed always nothing but preludes to some heavy
misfortune. It was a relief to her to find herself once more at home in the
Rectory at Croydon, alone in her apartment, able to think without distraction,
rest without interruption, and cry without observation. She was so completely
worn out, that to sit down and indulge in a very hearty flood of tears was the
greatest relief imaginable. Sam called at the Rectory on his return to the town,
and saw her for a few minutes. It was dark and the candles were not lighted, so
she had ventured down stairs to meet him. "Any news?" enquired Mr. Bridge.
"Nothing," said he: then crossing the room to his sister, he whispered,

"Emma, you are avenged!" She shuddered and did not answer. CHAPTER XIX. The next
day brought a pleasing change to the current of Emma's thoughts. She was walking
slowly under the old trees on the lawn, and was not aware of any one's approach
until an arm was suddenly clasped round her waist, and she found herself obliged
to submit to several very unceremonious kisses from her lover, who had contrived
as usual thus unexpectedly to meet her. "How you do startle one," cried she
struggling to release herself. "I will have you indicted for assault." "_Tears_,
Emma," said he looking at her attentively; "what are those red eyes for?" "You
had better not ask questions," replied she, "lest you should hear unpleasant
truths." "But I will ask questions, and you must answer me!" said he earnestly;
"I cannot let you cry without knowing the reason." "But suppose there is none,
what then?" suggested she playfully. "Then I shall feel under the necessity of
effacing the marks of your tears in the best way I can," replied he. She then
relieved her mind and his feelings by telling him the whole history of their
yesterday's excursion and its termination, which led of course to almost
interminable references to past events, explanations and details relative to Mr.
Morgan himself, of all which until this moment he had been profoundly ignorant.
The slanders circulated relative to Emma, the expedition of Lord Osborne to
rebut them, and the trouble he had taken on her account made a great impression
on him, and he took a vehement dislike to Croydon and everything connected with
a place where Emma had been exposed to such misrepresentations. Of course he
would not admit that she was in the least degree to blame for past events, or
that she had showed any undue severity towards Mr. Morgan—on the contrary, he
thought she had throughout been too lenient towards him; but this was an error
arising from the rare goodness of disposition which led her in so remarkable a
degree to tolerate the imperfections and weaknesses of those around her, of
which her attachment to himself was a conspicuous example. He had some news to
communicate in return for hers, which though not of quite so tragical a nature,
was to him a great disappointment. The rectory house at Carsdeane proved to be
in so extremely dilapidated a state that, in order to make it at all a
comfortable residence, Lord Osborne proposed to rebuild it entirely. In the
meantime there was no suitable home for Emma, and he feared their marriage must
be delayed at least for some months, instead as he had hoped of taking place
immediately. This was a very great disappointment to them both. Emma had
ventured to hope that the Autumn would have seen her installed in a settled
home, of which she would be the mistress, and they tried very hard to persuade
themselves and each other, that it would not be more prudent and advisable, to
wait till Mr. Howard had a house to receive his bride. They might have succeeded
perhaps in thinking so themselves, but they could not induce their friends to
agree in the decision. On the contrary, like most friends when two young people
wish to marry, they all concurred in considering it a very great advantage that
they should wait a little. And I am far from supposing them wrong in the idea.
Taking into consideration Emma's youth, for she was not yet quite twenty, and
the shortness of their acquaintance, which had as yet lasted barely six months,
I am of opinion that the delay even of a whole year would have been by no means
detrimental to their future happiness. It was perfectly natural that both Mr.
and Miss Bridge should adopt this idea, and I trust equally so that since they
urged it, Emma should yield to their prudent persuasions: the more especially as
appearing to yield at this time and agreeing to wait a twelvemonth, would by no
means preclude them from entirely changing their minds in a couple of months
time, in case they should see any occasion for so doing. As to any difficulty
about Emma's home in the meantime, Miss Bridge declared it could not exist,
since her house was always open to her, and she could regard her in no other
light than as her adopted child. In vain Mr. Howard remonstrated. Miss Bridge
was so firm in her conviction that Emma had better spend the next year in her
house, and professed so much satisfaction at the idea, that he at last declared,
in despair, he was certain it was for the sake of securing her company that Miss
Bridge interposed to prevent the marriage. Before however the two disputants
could settle their conflicting claims on Emma's society, a new turn was given to
the affair by the intervention of her youngest brother. He should want a
companion at Chichester, and it had always been an understood thing he declared,
that Emma was to live with him till she married. She readily admitted the fact,
and so it was settled; she was to accompany him to Chichester immediately after
Elizabeth's wedding, and remain there as he said, "until they were tired of one
another." Howard yielded this point much more readily than the other. Carsdeane
was much nearer Chichester than Burton, and he could easily visit her there.
Besides his penetration led him to surmise that Sam would be soon desirous of
placing another person at the head of his establishment; that a sister's society
would not long content him, and that when this change took place, he would
probably be thankful to be relieved from the charge he was undertaking. He
thought it likewise a great advantage that she should be removed entirely from
Croydon for a time, and from the painful impressions which he observed seemed
still to haunt her. She had suffered so much there, as he now began to
understand, that he could not help wishing that she should see the place no
more; a wish in which she certainly did not concur when she remembered it would
be Elizabeth's future home. The wedding that week was a very quiet one: the
death of Mr. Morgan had thrown a damp over the whole town from which it could
not at once recover, and no one felt inclined to indulge in festivities where he
would be so much missed. Accordingly everything was conducted in the simplest
manner, to the great disappointment of Mrs. Watson, who vowed it was hardly
worth putting on her new and handsome clothes, when there would be no one to see
her at Church. It was some alleviation to her distress of mind however to
remember that they would be equally handsome and more interesting after the
wedding was over, and she should be able to appear in uncommon splendour, when
returning all the congratulatory visits on some subsequent occasion. When all
was over, and Mrs. George Millar and her husband had set out from Croydon to
make a short visit to London, which the bride had never seen, Emma took an
affectionate leave of Annie Millar, and returned to the Rectory to prepare for
her journey. Sam remained a few minutes behind; it was only to ask Annie if she
still thought marriages as foolish as she had always declared them to be.
"Twenty times worse," said she, "they are not only foolish but sad, and I shall
consider myself particularly fortunate when this miserable day is fairly over."
"What do you consider the worst part of the affair," enquired he, still
lingering. "Oh the leave takings," said Annie hastily, "if Elizabeth had never
married you would all have stayed on here waiting for it, and we have been so
happy for this last week. Now you are going, and you must take Emma too!" "And
will you give me leave to flatter myself that you are sorry at my going." "I
dare say you would not wait for my leave; men always take it for granted that
women sit down and cry when they leave them," said she saucily. "I should
certainly entertain no such expectation Miss Millar; I am aware my profession
renders me too unpleasant in your eyes for you to do otherwise than rejoice at
my departure." "Upon my word you make me out to be a very rational young woman,"
replied she; "when did I ever find fault with your profession, or express a wish
that you were other than what you are? Because I should never have chosen the
surgical profession myself is that any reason that I should detest a man who
did—or so long as you do not exercise your skill on me, or in my presence, do
you imagine I object to your exhibiting it elsewhere?" "I had much rather you
should detest my profession than consider it with indifference, Miss Millar."
She only looked down and blushed, then holding out her hand, said in a hurried
manner,

"Good bye, I must go!" and left him, to his great disappointment. If Sam felt
discouraged by this sudden termination to his interview, the feeling lasted no
longer than till the receipt of Annie's first letter to his sister after they
were settled at Chichester; for there the allusions and reminiscences were of a
most flattering kind, and the frequent mention of his name, and the manner in
which it was introduced gave him very great pleasure. Emma became reconciled to
Penelope's marriage when she saw how well she was suited to her situation in
life, and though she did not greatly admire her brother-in-law, he was so very
superior to Tom Musgrove, that she thought her sister quite fortunate in
comparison with Margaret. To forget everything that had passed of an unpleasant
nature previous to her marriage was the wisest source which her friends could
adopt; and it is so exceedingly common that there should be something which
requires forgetting, that if the relatives of all married couples acted in the
same way, there would be a great deal more of unity in the world than at
present. Before she had been resident at Chichester three months, two events
occurred, which effected a change in her plans. One, as Mr. Howard and many
others had foreseen, was the engagement of Sam and Annie, and preparations for
their speedy marriage. The other was more unexpected. Her aunt, whose sudden and
ill-advised marriage had originally deprived her of her home, exasperated by the
unkind and unprincipled conduct of her young husband, quitted him abruptly;
procured a separation, and as she still retained the control of her income, he
was left very much as he deserved to be, no better off than when he made his
mercenary marriage. She returned to England, wrote to Emma, then came to her;
was delighted with Sam, with Mr. Howard, and with everything she learnt of their
doings, past, present, or future. She made Emma a magnificent wedding present,
both in money and clothes, and declared her determination of ultimately dividing
her fortune between her youngest nephew and niece. In the meantime, she took an
elegant mansion in the parish of Carsdeane, and insisted on the marriage taking
place immediately, and the young couple taking up their residence with her,
until the rectory house was prepared for them. This advice was much too
agreeable to be long resisted, and before Emma and Mr. Howard had seen the
anniversary of their first meeting, they were man and wife. Whether they ever
repented the interference of Miss Bridge to delay, or of Mrs. MacMahon to hurry
the union, I leave entirely to the imaginations of my readers to settle;
satisfied with having done my duty in detailing events as they really occurred.
There is but one more circumstance of any importance to relate; but that is,
that Lord Osborne, after Emma's marriage, joined a regiment abroad as a
volunteer—fought for some years in the Peninsular, and returned to England about
ten years after he had been refused by Emma, accompanied by his wife, a very
charming young Spanish lady, with whom he fell in love, because her dark eyes
reminded him of Mrs. Howard's. He had forgotten the likeness long before he
reached Osborne Castle; and no one who saw Mrs. Howard when visiting the young
bride, or watched his devotion to Lady Osborne, could, for a moment, have
imagined that Lord Osborne's love could have had such a foundation. I have
nothing more to say of any of the party, and only trust that all who read my
tale, may be convinced, as I am, that prudence, gentleness, and good sense, will
secure friends under the most disadvantageous circumstances; but that marriage
alone, unless undertaken with right feelings and motives, cannot be considered a
certain recipe for worldly happiness. THE END. T. C. NEWBY, Printer, 30,
Welbeck-street, Cavendish-sq.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

30, _Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square_,
LONDON. MR. NEWBY'S NEW WORKS. Now ready in Two Vols. THE

LADY OF THE BED-CHAMBER. A Novel. By MRS. CRAWFORD. This is a very excellently-
written novel, and in tone and manner is far above the ordinary standard of
fashionable fictions that are still so prodigal in their number. The title of
the story does not imply the depth, the intensity, and the fine passion which it
certainly embodies, because it is far more suggestive of gilded folly, of
brilliant vanity and of meretricious attraction. In itself, however, it is a
worthy evidence of the talents for authorship which the fair writer undoubtedly
possesses. The dialogues are good, the plots excellent, and bears upon them more
than the impress of probability. The descriptions are true to nature, when
speaking of nature and form, otherwise, absolute pictures in themselves, worthy
the pencils of Watteau or Laneret, or any of those charming triflers which the
age (and the one subsequent) of the _grand monarque_, produced.... In the
Italian scenery and in the Italian intrigue, there is a freshness and attraction
which the reader will find in these pages much to his sympathies, while the
fidelity and tact with which the accessories of place, and character are blended
together, constitute not the least attractive charm of a very charming
tale.—Despatch. 2

In Three Vols. OUR GUARDIAN. A Novel. By MRS. MACKENZIE DANIEL,

One of the most striking and admirable traits of the authoress, is the strength
and yet severe simplicity of the diction. The reputation which Mrs. Daniel has
already obtained by her former works, such as 'My sister Minnie,' 'Poor Cousin,'
&c. will be considerably increased by the real merits of this novel. Our
extracts will give a fair specimen of Mrs. Daniel's literary power....
_Dispatch._

It exhibits Mrs. Daniel's wonted elegance of style and pathos.—Spectator. We
must rank this production as one of the 'upper form,' of its class.—Atlas. 3

In Three Vols. SIR ARTHUR BOUVERIE. By the Author of 'Lady Granard's Nieces.' 4

In Three Vols. THE GOLDEN CALF. 'It is a general attack upon all persons who
have rendered their names well known by railway enterprise. It will excite a
sensation in drawing-rooms, counting-houses, and circulating-libraries.
'—Morning Herald. 5

_Price_ 5/. THE NEW CHRISTMAS TALE

CHRISTMAS SHADOWS,

A TALE OF THE DISTRESSED NEEDLEWOMEN. The way in which it is worked out is
worthy of Dickens in his happiest moments—the scenes are graphic and life-like,
and there are touches of deep pathos and strokes of humour which bespeak a
master hand.—GLOUCESTER STANDARD. We have few Christmas books this season. The
'Shadows,' is the largest we have seen. It is a very neat volume got up in the
style of Dickens's works, and well written.... The illustrations are good and
numerous.... The passages in the world of spirits, contain remarkably powerful
writing.... The book will be popular.—_Tait's Magazine._

It carries with it an excellent moral in favor of the working classes, and
especially of females doomed to starvation of the needle.—_Literary Gazette._

6

In 2 Vols.,

LIFE'S SUNSHINE. A Novel. By MISS M. H. RATHBONE. 7

In Three Vols. THE UNCLE'S LEGACY. A Novel. BY JOHN B. TORR, ESQ. Mr. Torr's
pictures of rural scenes are charming and life like as the farm-yard of
Moreland, but elevated and refined by an accomplished taste.—_Court Journal._

In all his pages there is an honest, cordial, healthy English morality. The
novel merits perusal.... _Morning Herald._

This novel possesses a merit to which few of the present day even pretend ...
its story is exceedingly well constructed.... _Atlas._

8

In Three Vols. ROUGH AND SMOOTH. By the Author of 'Recollections of a French
Marchioness.' 9

Now ready. In One Vol. 8vo. _Price_ 14/. CIRCASSIA;
OR,                         A TOUR TO THE CAUCASUS                       By G.
Leighton Ditson Esq. 10

In Three Vols. KINGSCONNELL. A Novel. By MRS. GORDON. Author of 'The Fortunes of
the Falconers.' Now ready. In three Vols. THE                        FOREST AND
THE FORTRESS                     A ROMANCE OF THE 19TH. CENTURY

BY MISS LAURA JEWRY. Author of 'The Ransom,' 'The Vassal,' &c.

This is the best romance we have read since the days of Sir Walter Scott. The
scene in which it is laid is new to the English reader, and there is in the
portraiture of its principal characters all the freshness of originality. We
doubt if any one, even the most hackneyed of novel and romance readers, can
venture upon perusing the first chapter, without feeling deeply interested in
the progress of the tale, and anxious to proceed with it to its close. In the
perusal of this romance, there is the conviction that the plot, which makes the
work a romance, is the only thing that takes it out of the range of history; for
its incidents are facts to which only new names are given. Its portraiture of
manners and of classes as they exist in Servia is as correct as that given of
England in the reign of Richard Cœur de Lion, in Ivanhoe. Thus forewarned that a
new and eventful period in the history of a strange country and an extraordinary
people is embodied in this romance, the public is invited to its perusal. We can
assure them that it will be found well worthy of their attention, and our only
regret is, that we cannot spare space for even a single extract from this truly
affecting and interesting romance.—Morning Herald. One of the finest, most
powerful, most truthful romance of the age.—The Naval and Military Gazette. The
great act of the opening is intensely striking, and colours all the future....
There is general simplicity. No effort to be fine, or sentimental, or pathetic.
The 'Forest and the Fortress' a genuinely good historical novel, and does
infinite credit to a female pen. We recommend it as one of the best of its
order: keeping close to the realities and truths of history, and most
ingeniously and skilfully impregnated with inventive charms, to render those
realities and truths, dramatically popular.—Literary Gazette. 12

In Three Vols. 8vo., price 31s. 6d.,                                RIZZIO.
EDITED BY G. P. R. JAMES, ESQ. We have read it with a pleasure in which method
and reason have as much share as imagination. It is more readable than ninety-
nine hundredths of so called historical novels.—Athenæum. The author must have
read a great deal to enable him to acquire the information, paint the portraits,
dress up individual traditions in the clever fashion he has reached in his
"Rizzio"—the volumes are, in every respect, curiosities of literature.—Literary
Gazette. A most valuable and interesting publication, valuable to the scholar,
who is well acquainted with the history of the times of which it treats, and
interesting to all who read merely for amusement.—Morning Herald. "Rizzio" is a
curious work. The author has read a good deal upon the history of the period in
which he lays his story, and looked into its habits and manners. There is a
certain imitation of reality about it, which really carries the reader along.—
Spectator. These volumes will be read with avidity.—Economist. 13

In Three Vols. MATERNAL LOVE. A Novel. BY MRS. LOUDON. A most amusing
book.—Athenæum.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

● Transcriber's Notes     ○ A few cases of inconsistent spelling were
regularized. ○ Word combinations that appeared with and without hyphens were
changed to the predominant form if it could be determined. ○ Punctuation and
spelling were made consistent when a predominant       form was found in this
book; otherwise they were not changed. ○ "beant" volume I, page 70, word
retained. A contraction of be       not, probably. See also "woant" on volume I,
page 143. ○ The spelling of Shakespeare was corrected. There were two
instances of the name, one spelled correctly, the other       incorrectly. ○ The
second chapter of volume II was relabeled from CHAPTER XIII       to CHAPTER II.
○ Volume 3, page 223: Rosa changed to Fanny ("You give me more       credit than
I deserve a great deal, Fanny;)