CHAPTER I. CHAPTER II. CHAPTER III. CHAPTER IV. CHAPTER V.  CHAPTER VI. CHAPTER
VII. CHAPTER VIII. CHAPTER IX. CHAPTER X. CHAPTER XI. CHAPTER XII. CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV. CHAPTER XV. CHAPTER XVI. CHAPTER XVII. CHAPTER XVIII. CHAPTER XIX.
CHAPTER XX. CHAPTER XXI. CHAPTER XXII. CHAPTER XXIII. CHAPTER XXIV. CHAPTER XXV.
CHAPTER XXVI. CHAPTER XXVII. CHAPTER XXVIII. CHAPTER XXIX. CHAPTER XXX. CHAPTER
XXXI. I

“Take off that mute, do!” cried Louisa, snatching her fingers from the piano
keys, and turning abruptly to the violinist. Helena looked slowly from her
music. “My dear Louisa,” she replied, “it would be simply unendurable.” She
stood tapping her white skirt with her bow in a kind of a pathetic forbearance.
“But I can’t understand it,” cried Louisa, bouncing on her chair with the
exaggeration of one who is indignant with a beloved. “It is only lately you
would even submit to muting your violin. At one time you would have refused
flatly, and no doubt about it.”

“I have only lately submitted to many things,” replied Helena, who seemed weary
and stupefied, but still sententious. Louisa drooped from her bristling
defiance. “At any rate,” she said, scolding in tones too naked with love, I
don’t like it.”

“Go on from _Allegro_,” said Helena, pointing with her bow to the place on
Louisa’s score of the Mozart sonata. Louisa obediently took the chords, and the
music continued. A young man, reclining in one of the wicker arm-chairs by the
fire, turned luxuriously from the girls to watch the flames poise and dance with
the music. He was evidently at his ease, yet he seemed a stranger in the room.
It was the sitting-room of a mean house standing in line with hundreds of others
of the same kind, along a wide road in South London. Now and again the trams
hummed by, but the room was foreign to the trams and to the sound of the London
traffic. It was Helena’s room, for which she was responsible. The walls were of
the dead-green colour of August foliage; the green carpet, with its border of
polished floor, lay like a square of grass in a setting of black loam. Ceiling
and frieze and fireplace were smooth white. There was no other colouring. The
furniture, excepting the piano, had a transitory look; two light wicker arm-
chairs by the fire, the two frail stands of dark, polished wood, the couple of
flimsy chairs, and the case of books in the recess—all seemed uneasy, as if they
might be tossed out to leave the room clear, with its green floor and walls, and
its white rim of skirting-board, serene. On the mantlepiece were white lustres,
and a small soapstone Buddha from China, grey, impassive, locked in his
renunciation. Besides these, two tablets of translucent stone beautifully
clouded with rose and blood, and carved with Chinese symbols; then a litter of
mementoes, rock-crystals, and shells and scraps of seaweed. A stranger,
entering, felt at a loss. He looked at the bare wall-spaces of dark green, at
the scanty furniture, and was assured of his unwelcome. The only objects of
sympathy in the room were the white lamp that glowed on a stand near the wall,
and the large, beautiful fern, with narrow fronds, which ruffled its cloud of
green within the gloom of the window-bay. These only, with the fire, seemed
friendly. The three candles on the dark piano burned softly, the music fluttered
on, but, like numbed butterflies, stupidly. Helena played mechanically. She
broke the music beneath her bow, so that it came lifeless, very hurting to hear.
The young man frowned, and pondered. Uneasily, he turned again to the players.
The violinist was a girl of twenty-eight. Her white dress, high-waisted, swung
as she forced the rhythm, determinedly swaying to the time as if her body were
the white stroke of a metronome. It made the young man frown as he watched. Yet
he continued to watch. She had a very strong, vigorous body. Her neck, pure
white, arched in strength from the fine hollow between her shoulders as she held
the violin. The long white lace of her sleeve swung, floated, after the bow.
Byrne could not see her face, more than the full curve of her cheek. He watched
her hair, which at the back was almost of the colour of the soapstone idol, take
the candlelight into its vigorous freedom in front and glisten over her
forehead. Suddenly Helena broke off the music, and dropped her arm in irritable
resignation. Louisa looked round from the piano, surprised. “Why,” she cried,
“wasn’t it all right?”

Helena laughed wearily. “It was all wrong,” she answered, as she put her violin
tenderly to rest. “Oh, I’m sorry I did so badly,” said Louisa in a huff. She
loved Helena passionately. “You didn’t do badly at all,” replied her friend, in
the same tired, apathetic tone. “It was I.”

When she had closed the black lid of her violin-case, Helena stood a moment as
if at a loss. Louisa looked up with eyes full of affection, like a dog that did
not dare to move to her beloved. Getting no response, she drooped over the
piano. At length Helena looked at her friend, then slowly closed her eyes. The
burden of this excessive affection was too much for her. Smiling faintly, she
said, as if she were coaxing a child:

“Play some Chopin, Louisa.”

“I shall only do that all wrong, like everything else,” said the elder
plaintively. Louisa was thirty-five. She had been Helena’s friend for years.
“Play the mazurkas,” repeated Helena calmly. Louisa rummaged among the music.
Helena blew out her violin-candle, and came to sit down on the side of the fire
opposite to Byrne. The music began. Helena pressed her arms with her hands,
musing. “They are inflamed still” said the young man. She glanced up suddenly,
her blue eyes, usually so heavy and tired, lighting up with a small smile.
“Yes,” she answered, and she pushed back her sleeve, revealing a fine, strong
arm, which was scarlet on the outer side from shoulder to wrist, like some long,
red-burned fruit. The girl laid her cheek on the smarting soft flesh
caressively. “It is quite hot,” she smiled, again caressing her sun-scalded arm
with peculiar joy. “Funny to see a sunburn like that in mid-winter,” he replied,
frowning. “I can’t think why it should last all these months. Don’t you ever put
anything on to heal it?”

She smiled at him again, almost pitying, then put her mouth lovingly on the
burn. “It comes out every evening like this,” she said softly, with curious joy.
“And that was August, and now it’s February!” he exclaimed. “It must be
psychological, you know. You make it come—the smart; you invoke it.”

She looked up at him, suddenly cold. “I! I never think of it,” she answered
briefly, with a kind of sneer. The young man’s blood ran back from her at her
acid tone. But the mortification was physical only. Smiling quickly, gently—”

“Never?” he re-echoed. There was silence between them for some moments, whilst
Louisa continued to play the piano for their benefit. At last:

“Drat it,” she exclaimed, flouncing round on the piano-stool. The two looked up
at her. “Ye did run well—what hath hindered you?” laughed Byrne. “You!” cried
Louisa. “Oh, I can’t play any more,” she added, dropping her arms along her
skirt pathetically. Helena laughed quickly. “Oh I can’t, Helen!” pleaded Louisa.
“My dear,” said Helena, laughing briefly, “you are really under _no_ obligation
_whatever_.”

With the little groan of one who yields to a desire contrary to her self-
respect, Louisa dropped at the feet of Helena, laid her arm and her head
languishingly on the knee of her friend. The latter gave no sign, but continued
to gaze in the fire. Byrne, on the other side of the hearth, sprawled in his
chair, smoking a reflective cigarette. The room was very quiet, silent even of
the tick of a clock. Outside, the traffic swept by, and feet pattered along the
pavement. But this vulgar storm of life seemed shut out of Helena’s room, that
remained indifferent, like a church. Two candles burned dimly as on an altar,
glistening yellow on the dark piano. The lamp was blown out, and the flameless
fire, a red rubble, dwindled in the grate, so that the yellow glow of the
candles seemed to shine even on the embers. Still no one spoke. At last Helena
shivered slightly in her chair, though did not change her position. She sat
motionless. “Will you make coffee, Louisa?” she asked. Louisa lifted herself,
looked at her friend, and stretched slightly. “Oh!” she groaned voluptuously.
“This is so comfortable!”

“Don’t trouble then, I’ll go. No, don’t get up,” said Helena, trying to
disengage herself. Louisa reached and put her hands on Helena’s wrists. “I will
go,” she drawled, almost groaning with voluptuousness and appealing love. Then,
as Helena still made movements to rise, the elder woman got up slowly, leaning
as she did so all her weight on her friend. “Where is the coffee?” she asked,
affecting the dullness of lethargy. She was full of small affectations, being
consumed with uneasy love. “I think, my dear,” replied Helena, “it is in its
usual place.”

“Oh—o-o-oh!” yawned Louisa, and she dragged herself out. The two had been
intimate friends for years, had slept together, and played together and lived
together. Now the friendship was coming to an end. “After all,” said Byrne, when
the door was closed, “if you’re alive you’ve got to live.”

Helena burst into a titter of amusement at this sudden remark. “Wherefore?” she
asked indulgently. “Because there’s no such thing as passive existence,” he
replied, grinning. She curled her lip in amused indulgence of this very young
man. “I don’t see it at all,” she said. “You can’t, he protested, “any more than
a tree can help budding in April—it can’t help itself, if it’s alive; same with
you.”

“Well, then”—and again there was the touch of a sneer—“if I can’t help myself,
why trouble, my friend?”

“Because—because I suppose _I_ can’t help myself—if it bothers me, it does. You
see, I”—he smiled brilliantly—“am April.”

She paid very little attention to him, but began in a peculiar reedy, metallic
tone, that set his nerves quivering:

“But I am not a bare tree. All my dead leaves, they hang to me—and—and go
through a kind of _danse macabre_—”

“But you bud underneath—like beech,” he said quickly. “Really, my friend,” she
said coldly, “I am too tired to bud.”

“No,” he pleaded, “no!” With his thick brows knitted, he surveyed her anxiously.
She had received a great blow in August, and she still was stunned. Her face,
white and heavy, was like a mask, almost sullen. She looked in the fire,
forgetting him. “You want March,” he said—he worried endlessly over her—“to rip
off your old leaves. I s’ll have to be March,” he laughed. She ignored him again
because of his presumption. He waited awhile, then broke out once more. “You
must start again—you must. Always you rustle your red leaves of a blasted
summer. You are not dead. Even if you want to be, you’re not. Even if it’s a
bitter thing to say, you have to say it: you are not dead….”

Smiling a peculiar, painful smile, as if he hurt her, she turned to gaze at a
photograph that hung over the piano. It was the profile of a handsome man in the
prime of life. He was leaning slightly forward, as if yielding beneath a burden
of life, or to the pull of fate. He looked out musingly, and there was no hint
of rebellion in the contours of the regular features. The hair was brushed back,
soft and thick, straight from his fine brow. His nose was small and shapely, his
chin rounded, cleft, rather beautifully moulded. Byrne gazed also at the photo.
His look became distressed and helpless. “You cannot say you are dead with
Siegmund,” he cried brutally. She shuddered, clasped her burning arms on her
breast, and looked into the fire. “You are not dead with Siegmund,” he
persisted, “so you can’t say you live with him. You may live with his memory.
But Siegmund is dead, and his memory is not he—himself,” He made a fierce
gesture of impatience. “Siegmund now—he is not a memory—he is not your dead red
leaves—he is Siegmund Dead! And you do not know him, because you are alive, like
me, so Siegmund Dead is a stranger to you.”

With her head bowed down, cowering like a sulky animal, she looked at him under
her brows. He stared fiercely back at her, but beneath her steady, glowering
gaze he shrank, then turned aside. “You stretch your hands blindly to the dead;
you look backwards. No, you never touch the thing,” he cried. “I have the arms
of Louisa always round my neck,” came her voice, like the cry of a cat. She put
her hands on her throat as if she must relieve an ache. He saw her lip raised in
a kind of disgust, a revulsion from life. She was very sick after the tragedy.
He frowned, and his eyes dilated. “Folk are good; they are good for one. You
never have looked at them. You would linger hours over a blue weed, and let all
the people down the road go by. Folks are better than a garden in full blossom—”

She watched him again. A certain beauty in his speech, and his passionate way,
roused her when she did not want to be roused, when moving from her torpor was
painful. At last—

“You are merciless, you know, Cecil,” she said. “And I will be,” protested
Byrne, flinging his hand at her. She laughed softly, wearily. For some time they
were silent. She gazed once more at the photograph over the piano, and forgot
all the present. Byrne, spent for the time being, was busy hunting for some
life-interest to give her. He ignored the simplest—that of love—because he was
even more faithful than she to the memory of Siegmund, and blinder than most to
his own heart. “I do wish I had Siegmund’s violin,” she said quietly, but with
great intensity. Byrne glanced at her, then away. His heart beat sulkily. His
sanguine, passionate spirit dropped and slouched under her contempt. He, also,
felt the jar, heard the discord. She made him sometimes pant with her own
horror. He waited, full of hate and tasting of ashes, for the arrival of Louisa
with the coffee. II

Siegmund’s violin, desired of Helena, lay in its case beside Siegmund’s lean
portmanteau in the white dust of the lumber-room in Highgate. It was worth
twenty pounds, but Beatrice had not yet roused herself to sell it; she kept the
black case out of sight. Siegmund’s violin lay in the dark, folded up, as he had
placed it for the last time, with hasty, familiar hands, in its red silk shroud.
After two dead months the first string had snapped, sharply striking the
sensitive body of the instrument. The second string had broken near Christmas,
but no one had heard the faint moan of its going. The violin lay mute in the
dark, a faint odour of must creeping over the smooth, soft wood. Its twisted,
withered strings lay crisped from the anguish of breaking, smothered under the
silk folds. The fragrance of Siegmund himself, with which the violin was
steeped, slowly changed into an odour of must. Siegmund died out even from his
violin. He had infused it with his life, till its fibres had been as the tissue
of his own flesh. Grasping his violin, he seemed to have his fingers on the
strings of his heart and of the heart of Helena. It was his little beloved that
drank his being and turned it into music. And now Siegmund was dead; only an
odour of must remained of him in his violin. It lay folded in silk in the dark,
waiting. Six months before it had longed for rest; during the last nights of the
season, when Siegmund’s fingers had pressed too hard, when Siegmund’s passion,
and joy, and fear had hurt, too, the soft body of his little beloved, the violin
had sickened for rest. On that last night of opera, without pity Siegmund had
struck the closing phrases from the fiddle, harsh in his impatience, wild in
anticipation. The curtain came down, the great singers bowed, and Siegmund felt
the spattering roar of applause quicken his pulse. It was hoarse, and savage,
and startling on his inflamed soul, making him shiver with anticipation, as if
something had brushed his hot nakedness. Quickly, with hands of habitual
tenderness, he put his violin away. The theatre-goers were tired, and life
drained rapidly out of the opera-house. The members of the orchestra rose,
laughing, mingling their weariness with good wishes for the holiday, with sly
warning and suggestive advice, pressing hands warmly ere they disbanded. Other
years Siegmund had lingered, unwilling to take the long farewell of his
associates of the orchestra. Other years he had left the opera-house with a
little pain of regret. Now he laughed, and took his comrades’ hands, and bade
farewells, all distractedly, and with impatience. The theatre, awesome now in
its emptiness, he left gladly, hastening like a flame stretched level on the
wind. With his black violin-case he hurried down the street, then halted to pity
the flowers massed pallid under the gaslight of the market-hall. For himself,
the sea and the sunlight opened great spaces tomorrow. The moon was full above
the river. He looked at it as a man in abstraction watches some clear thing;
then he came to a standstill. It was useless to hurry to his train. The traffic
swung past the lamplight shone warm on all the golden faces; but Siegmund had
already left the city. His face was silver and shadows to the moon; the river,
in its soft grey, shaking golden sequins among the folds of its shadows, fell
open like a garment before him, to reveal the white moon-glitter brilliant as
living flesh. Mechanically, overcast with the reality of the moonlight, he took
his seat in the train, and watched the moving of things. He was in a kind of
trance, his consciousness seeming suspended. The train slid out amongst lights
and dark places. Siegmund watched the endless movement, fascinated. This was one
of the crises of his life. For years he had suppressed his soul, in a kind of
mechanical despair doing his duty and enduring the rest. Then his soul had been
softly enticed from its bondage. Now he was going to break free altogether, to
have at least a few days purely for his own joy. This, to a man of his
integrity, meant a breaking of bonds, a severing of blood-ties, a sort of new
birth. In the excitement of this last night his life passed out of his control,
and he sat at the carriage-window, motionless, watching things move. He felt
busy within him a strong activity which he could not help. Slowly the body of
his past, the womb which had nourished him in one fashion for so many years, was
casting him forth. He was trembling in all his being, though he knew not with
what. All he could do now was to watch the lights go by, and to let the
translation of himself continue. When at last the train ran out into the full,
luminous night, and Siegmund saw the meadows deep in moonlight, he quivered with
a low anticipation. The elms, great grey shadows, seemed to loiter in their
cloaks across the pale fields. He had not seen them so before. The world was
changing. The train stopped, and with a little effort he rose to go home. The
night air was cool and sweet. He drank it thirstily. In the road again he lifted
his face to the moon. It seemed to help him; in its brilliance amid the blonde
heavens it seemed to transcend fretfulness. It would front the waves with silver
as they slid to the shore, and Helena, looking along the coast, waiting, would
lift her white hands with sudden joy. He laughed, and the moon hurried laughing
alongside, through the black masses of the trees. He had forgotten he was going
home for this night. The chill wetness of his little white garden-gate reminded
him, and a frown came on his face. As he closed the door, and found himself in
the darkness of the hall, the sense of his fatigue came fully upon him. It was
an effort to go to bed. Nevertheless, he went very quietly into the drawing-
room. There the moonlight entered, and he thought the whiteness was Helena. He
held his breath and stiffened, then breathed again. “Tomorrow,” he thought, as
he laid his violin-case across the arms of a wicker chair. But he had a physical
feeling of the presence of Helena: in his shoulders he seemed to be aware of
her. Quickly, half lifting his arms, he turned to the moonshine. “Tomorrow!” he
exclaimed quietly; and he left the room stealthily, for fear of disturbing the
children. In the darkness of the kitchen burned a blue bud of light. He quickly
turned up the gas to a broad yellow flame, and sat down at table. He was tired,
excited, and vexed with misgiving. As he lay in his arm-chair, he looked round
with disgust. The table was spread with a dirty cloth that had great brown
stains betokening children. In front of him was a cup and saucer, and a small
plate with a knife laid across it. The cheese, on another plate, was wrapped in
a red-bordered, fringed cloth, to keep off the flies, which even then were
crawling round, on the sugar, on the loaf, on the cocoa-tin. Siegmund looked at
his cup. It was chipped, and a stain had gone under the glaze, so that it looked
like the mark of a dirty mouth. He fetched a glass of water. The room was drab
and dreary. The oil-cloth was worn into a hole near the door. Boots and shoes of
various sizes were scattered over the floor, while the sofa was littered with
children’s clothing. In the black stove the ash lay dead; on the range were
chips of wood, and newspapers, and rubbish of papers, and crusts of bread, and
crusts of bread-and-jam. As Siegmund walked across the floor, he crushed two
sweets underfoot. He had to grope under sofa and dresser to find his slippers;
and he was in evening dress. It would be the same, while ever Beatrice was
Beatrice and Siegmund her husband. He ate his bread and cheese mechanically,
wondering why he was miserable, why he was not looking forward with joy to the
morrow. As he ate, he closed his eyes, half wishing he had not promised Helena,
half wishing he had no tomorrow. Leaning back in his chair, he felt something in
the way. It was a small teddy-bear and half of a strong white comb. He grinned
to himself. This was the summary of his domestic life—a broken, coarse comb, a
child crying because her hair was lugged, a wife who had let the hair go till
now, when she had got into a temper to see the job through; and then the teddy-
bear, pathetically cocking a black worsted nose, and lifting absurd arms to him.
He wondered why Gwen had gone to bed without her pet. She would want the silly
thing. The strong feeling of affection for his children came over him, battling
with something else. He sank in his chair, and gradually his baffled mind went
dark. He sat, overcome with weariness and trouble, staring blankly into the
space. His own stifling roused him. Straightening his shoulders, he took a deep
breath, then relaxed again. After a while he rose, took the teddy-bear, and went
slowly to bed. Gwen and Marjory, aged nine and twelve, slept together in a small
room. It was fairly light. He saw his favourite daughter lying quite uncovered,
her wilful head thrown back, her mouth half open. Her black hair was tossed
across the pillow: he could see the action. Marjory snuggled under the sheet. He
placed the teddy-bear between the two girls. As he watched them, he hated the
children for being so dear to him. Either he himself must go under, and drag on
an existence he hated, or they must suffer. But he had agreed to spend this
holiday with Helena, and meant to do so. As he turned, he saw himself like a
ghost cross the mirror. He looked back; he peered at himself. His hair still
grew thick and dark from his brow: he could not see the grey at the temples. His
eyes were dark and tender, and his mouth, under the black moustache, was full of
youth. He rose, looked at the children, frowned, and went to his own small room.
He was glad to be shut alone in the little cubicle of darkness. Outside the
world lay in a glamorous pallor, casting shadows that made the farm, the trees,
the bulks of villas, look like live creatures. The same pallor went through all
the night, glistening on Helena as she lay curled up asleep at the core of the
glamour, like the moon; on the sea rocking backwards and forwards till it rocked
her island as she slept. She was so calm and full of her own assurance. It was a
great rest to be with her. With her, nothing mattered but love and the beauty of
things. He felt parched and starving. She had rest and love, like water and
manna for him. She was so strong in her self-possession, in her love of
beautiful things and of dreams. The clock downstairs struck two. “I must get to
sleep,” he said. He dragged his portmanteau from beneath the bed and began to
pack it. When at last it was finished, he shut it with a snap. The click sounded
final. He stood up, stretched himself, and sighed. “I am fearfully tired,” he
said. But that was persuasive. When he was undressed he sat in his pyjamas for
some time, rapidly beating his fingers on his knee. “Thirty-eight years old,” he
said to himself, “and disconsolate as a child!” He began to muse of the morrow.
When he seemed to be going to sleep, he woke up to find thoughts labouring over
his brain, like bees on a hive. Recollections, swift thoughts, flew in and
alighted upon him, as wild geese swing down and take possession of a pond.
Phrases from the opera tyrannized over him; he played the rhythm with all his
blood. As he turned over in this torture, he sighed, and recognized a movement
of the De Beriot concerto which Helena had played for her last lesson. He found
himself watching her as he had watched then, felt again the wild impatience when
she was wrong, started again as, amid the dipping and sliding of her bow, he
realized where his thoughts were going. She was wrong, he was hasty; and he felt
her blue eyes looking intently at him. Both started as his daughter Vera entered
suddenly. She was a handsome girl of nineteen. Crossing the room, brushing
Helena as if she were a piece of furniture in the way, Vera had asked her father
a question, in a hard, insulting tone, then had gone out again, just as if
Helena had not been in the room. Helena stood fingering the score of _Pelléas_.
When Vera had gone, she asked, in the peculiar tone that made Siegmund shiver:

“Why do you consider the music of _Pelléas_ cold?”

Siegmund had struggled to answer. So they passed everything off, without
mention, after Helena’s fashion, ignoring all that might be humiliating; and to
her much was humiliating. For years she had come as pupil to Siegmund, first as
a friend of the household. Then she and Louisa went occasionally to whatever
hall or theatre had Siegmund in the orchestra, so that shortly the three formed
the habit of coming home together. Then Helena had invited Siegmund to her home;
then the three friends went walks together; then the two went walks together,
whilst Louisa sheltered them. Helena had come to read his loneliness and the
humiliation of his lot. He had felt her blue eyes, heavily, steadily gazing into
his soul, and he had lost himself to her. That day, three weeks before the end
of the season, when Vera had so insulted Helena, the latter had said, as she put
on her coat, looking at him all the while with heavy blue eyes: “I think,
Siegmund, I cannot come here any more. Your home is not open to me any longer.”
He had writhed in confusion and humiliation. As she pressed his hand, closely
and for a long time, she said: “I will write to you.” Then she left him.
Siegmund had hated his life that day. Soon she wrote. A week later, when he lay
resting his head on her lap in Richmond Park, she said:

“You are so tired, Siegmund.” She stroked his face, and kissed him softly.
Siegmund lay in the molten daze of love. But Helena was, if it is not to debase
the word, virtuous: an inconsistent virtue, cruel and ugly for Siegmund. “You
are so tired, dear. You must come away with me and rest, the first week in
August.”

His blood had leapt, and whatever objections he raised, such as having no money,
he allowed to be overridden. He was going to Helena, to the Isle of Wight,
tomorrow. Helena, with her blue eyes so full of storm, like the sea, but, also
like the sea, so eternally self-sufficient, solitary; with her thick white
throat, the strongest and most wonderful thing on earth, and her small hands,
silken and light as wind-flowers, would be his tomorrow, along with the sea and
the downs. He clung to the exquisite flame which flooded him…. But it died out,
and he thought of the return to London, to Beatrice, and the children. How would
it be? Beatrice, with her furious dark eyes, and her black hair loosely knotted
back, came to his mind as she had been the previous day, flaring with temper
when he said to her:

“I shall be going away tomorrow for a few days’ holiday.”

She asked for detail, some of which he gave. Then, dissatisfied and inflamed,
she broke forth in her suspicion and her abuse, and her contempt, while two
large-eyed children stood listening by. Siegmund hated his wife for drawing on
him the grave, cold looks of condemnation from his children. Something he had
said touched Beatrice. She came of good family, had been brought up like a lady,
educated in a convent school in France. He evoked her old pride. She drew
herself up with dignity, and called the children away. He wondered if he could
bear a repetition of that degradation. It bled him of his courage and self-
respect. In the morning Beatrice was disturbed by the sharp sneck of the hall
door. Immediately awake, she heard his quick, firm step hastening down the
gravel path. In her impotence, discarded like a worn out object, she lay for the
moment stiff with bitterness. “I am nothing, I am nothing,” she said to herself.
She lay quite rigid for a time. There was no sound anywhere. The morning
sunlight pierced vividly through the slits of the blind. Beatrice lay rocking
herself, breathing hard, her finger-nails pressing into her palm. Then came the
sound of a train slowing down in the station, and directly the quick “chuff-
chuff-chuff” of its drawing out. Beatrice imagined the sunlight on the puffs of
steam, and the two lovers, her husband and Helena, rushing through the miles of
morning sunshine. “God strike her dead! Mother of God, strike her down!” she
said aloud, in a low tone. She hated Helena. Irene, who lay with her mother,
woke up and began to question her. III

In the miles of morning sunshine, Siegmund’s shadows, his children, Beatrice,
his sorrow, dissipated like mist, and he was elated as a young man setting forth
to travel. When he had passed Portsmouth Town everything had vanished but the
old gay world of romance. He laughed as he looked out of the carriage window.
Below, in the street, a military band passed glittering. A brave sound floated
up, and again he laughed, loving the tune, the clash and glitter of the band,
the movement of scarlet, blithe soldiers beyond the park. People were drifting
brightly from church. How could it be Sunday! It was no time; it was Romance,
going back to Tristan. Women, like crocus flowers, in white and blue and
lavender, moved gaily. Everywhere fluttered the small flags of holiday. Every
form danced lightly in the sunshine. And beyond it all were the silent hillsides
of the island, with Helena. It was so wonderful, he could bear to be patient.
She would be all in white, with her cool, thick throat left bare to the breeze,
her face shining, smiling as she dipped her head because of the sun, which
glistened on her uncovered hair. He breathed deeply, stirring at the thought.
But he would not grow impatient. The train had halted over the town, where
scarlet soldiers, and ludicrous blue sailors, and all the brilliant women from
church shook like a kaleidoscope down the street. The train crawled on, drawing
near to the sea, for which Siegmund waited breathless. It was so like Helena,
blue, beautiful, strong in its reserve. Another moment they were in the dirty
station. Then the day flashed out, and Siegmund mated with joy. He felt the sea
heaving below him. He looked round, and the sea was blue as a periwinkle flower,
while gold and white and blood-red sails lit here and there upon the blueness.
Standing on the deck, he gave himself to the breeze and to the sea, feeling like
one of the ruddy sails—as if he were part of it all. All his body radiated amid
the large, magnificent sea-moon like a piece of colour. The little ship began to
pulse, to tremble. White with the softness of a bosom, the water rose up
frothing and swaying gently. Ships drew near the inquisitive birds; the old
_Victory_ shook her myriad pointed flags of yellow and scarlet; the straight old
houses of the quay passed by. Outside the harbour, like fierce creatures of the
sea come wildly up to look, the battleships laid their black snouts on the
water. Siegmund laughed at them. He felt the foam on his face like a sparkling,
felt the blue sea gathering round. On the left stood the round fortress,
quaintly chequered, and solidly alone in the walk of water, amid the silent
flight of the golden-and crimson-winged boats. Siegmund watched the bluish bulk
of the island. Like the beautiful women in the myths, his love hid in its blue
haze. It seemed impossible. Behind him, the white wake trailed myriads of
daisies. On either hand the grim and wicked battleships watched along their
sharp noses. Beneath him the clear green water swung and puckered as if it were
laughing. In front, Sieglinde’s island drew near and nearer, creeping towards
him, bringing him Helena. Meadows and woods appeared, houses crowded down to the
shore to meet him; he was in the quay, and the ride was over. Siegmund regretted
it. But Helena was on the island, which rode like an anchored ship under the
fleets of cloud that had launched whilst Siegmund was on water. As he watched
the end of the pier loom higher, large ponderous trains of cloud cast over him
the shadows of their bulk, and he shivered in the chill wind. His travelling was
very slow. The sky’s dark shipping pressed closer and closer, as if all the
clouds had come to harbour. Over the flat lands near Newport the wind moaned
like the calling of many violoncellos. All the sky was grey. Siegmund waited
drearily on Newport station, where the wind swept coldly. It was Sunday, and the
station and the island were desolate, having lost their purposes. Siegmund put
on his overcoat and sat down. All his morning’s blaze of elation was gone,
though there still glowed a great hope. He had slept only two hours of the
night. An empty man, he had drunk joy, and now the intoxication was dying out.
At three o’clock of the afternoon he sat alone in the second-class carriage,
looking out. A few raindrops struck the pane, then the blurred dazzle of a
shower came in a burst of wind, and hid the downs and the reeds that shivered in
the marshy places. Siegmund sat in a chilly torpor. He counted the stations.
Beneath his stupor his heart was thudding heavily with excitement, surprising
him, for his brain felt dead. The train slowed down: Yarmouth! One more station,
then. Siegmund watched the platform, shiny with rain, slide past. On the dry
grey under the shelter, one white passenger was waiting. Suddenly Siegmund’s
heart leaped up, wrenching wildly. He burst open the door, and caught hold of
Helena. She dilated, gave a palpitating cry as he dragged her into the carriage.
“You _here!_” he exclaimed, in a strange tone. She was shivering with cold. Her
almost naked arms were blue. She could not answer Siegmund’s question, but lay
clasped against him, shivering away her last chill as his warmth invaded her. He
laughed in his heart as she nestled in to him. “Is it a dream now, dear?” he
whispered. Helena clasped him tightly, shuddering because of the delicious
suffusing of his warmth through her. Almost immediately they heard the grinding
of the brakes. “Here we are, then!” exclaimed Helena, dropping into her
conventional, cheerful manner at once. She put straight her hat, while he
gathered his luggage. Until tea-time there was a pause in their progress.
Siegmund was tingling with an exquisite vividness, as if he had taken some rare
stimulant. He wondered at himself. It seemed that every fibre in his body was
surprised with joy, as each tree in a forest at dawn utters astonished cries of
delight. When Helena came back, she sat opposite to him to see him. His naïve
look of joy was very sweet to her. His eyes were dark blue, showing the fibrils,
like a purple-veined flower at twilight, and somehow, mysteriously, joy seemed
to quiver in the iris. Helena appreciated him, feature by feature. She liked his
clear forehead, with its thick black hair, and his full mouth, and his chin. She
loved his hands, that were small, but strong and nervous, and very white. She
liked his breast, that breathed so strong and quietly, and his arms, and his
thighs, and his knees. For him, Helena was a presence. She was ambushed, fused
in an aura of his love. He only saw she was white, and strong, and full fruited,
he only knew her blue eyes were rather awful to him. Outside, the sea-mist was
travelling thicker and thicker inland. Their lodging was not far from the bay.
As they sat together at tea, Siegmund’s eyes dilated, and he looked frowning at
Helena. “What is it?” he asked, listening uneasily. Helena looked up at him,
from pouring out the tea. His little anxious look of distress amused her. “The
noise, you mean? Merely the fog-horn, dear—not Wotan’s wrath, nor Siegfried’s
dragon….”

The fog was white at the window. They sat waiting. After a few seconds the sound
came low, swelling, like the mooing of some great sea animal, alone, the last of
the monsters. The whole fog gave off the sound for a second or two, then it died
down into an intense silence. Siegmund and Helena looked at each other. His eyes
were full of trouble. To see a big, strong man anxious-eyed as a child because
of a strange sound amused her. But he was tired. “I assure you, it _is_ only a
fog-horn,” she laughed. “Of course. But it is a depressing sort of sound.”

“Is it?” she said curiously. “Why? Well—yes—I think I can understand its being
so to some people. It’s something like the call of the horn across the sea to
Tristan.”

She hummed softly, then three times she sang the horn-call. Siegmund, with his
face expressionless as a mask, sat staring out at the mist. The boom of the
siren broke in upon them. To him, the sound was full of fatality. Helena waited
till the noise died down, then she repeated her horn-call. “Yet it is very much
like the fog-horn,” she said, curiously interested. “This time next week,
Helena!” he said. She suddenly went heavy, and stretched across to clasp his
hand as it lay upon the table. “I shall be calling to you from Cornwall,” she
said. He did not reply. So often she did not take his meaning, but left him
alone with his sense of tragedy. She had no idea how his life was wrenched from
its roots, and when he tried to tell her, she balked him, leaving him inwardly
quite lonely. “There is _no_ next week,” she declared, with great cheerfulness.
“There is only the present.”

At the same moment she rose and slipped across to him. Putting her arms round
his neck, she stood holding his head to her bosom, pressing it close, with her
hand among his hair. His nostrils and mouth were crushed against her breast. He
smelled the silk of her dress and the faint, intoxicating odour of her person.
With shut eyes he owned heavily to himself again that she was blind to him. But
some other self urged with gladness, no matter how blind she was, so that she
pressed his face upon her. She stroked and caressed his hair, tremblingly
clasped his head against her breast, as if she would never release him; then she
bent to kiss his forehead. He took her in his arms, and they were still for
awhile. Now he wanted to blind himself with her, to blaze up all his past and
future in a passion worth years of living. After tea they rested by the fire,
while she told him all the delightful things she had found. She had a woman’s
curious passion for details, a woman’s peculiar attachment to certain dear
trifles. He listened, smiling, revived by her delight, and forgetful of himself.
She soothed him like sunshine, and filled him with pleasure; but he hardly
attended to her words. “Shall we go out, or are you too tired? No, you are
tired—you are very tired,” said Helena. She stood by his chair, looking down on
him tenderly. “No,” he replied, smiling brilliantly at her, and stretching his
handsome limbs in relief—“no, not at all tired now.”

Helena continued to look down on him in quiet, covering tenderness. But she
quailed before the brilliant, questioning gaze of his eyes. “You must go to bed
early tonight,” she said, turning aside her face, ruffling his soft black hair.
He stretched slightly, stiffening his arms, and smiled without answering. It was
a very keen pleasure to be thus alone with her and in her charge. He rose,
bidding her wrap herself up against the fog. “You are sure you’re not too
tired?” she reiterated. He laughed. Outside, the sea-mist was white and woolly.
They went hand in hand. It was cold, so she thrust her hand with his into the
pocket of his overcoat, while they walked together. “I like the mist,” he said,
pressing her hand in his pocket. “I don’t dislike it,” she replied, shrinking
nearer to him. “It puts us together by ourselves,” he said. She plodded
alongside, bowing her head, not replying. He did not mind her silence. “It
couldn’t have happened better for us than this mist,” he said. She laughed
curiously, almost with a sound of tears. “Why?” she asked, half tenderly, half
bitterly. “There is nothing else but you, and for you there is nothing else but
me—look!”

He stood still. They were on the downs, so that Helena found herself quite alone
with the man in a world of mist. Suddenly she flung herself sobbing against his
breast. He held her closely, tenderly, not knowing what it was all about, but
happy and unafraid. In one hollow place the siren from the Needles seemed to
bellow full in their ears. Both Siegmund and Helena felt their emotion too
intense. They turned from it. “What is the pitch?” asked Helena. “Where it is
horizontal? It slides up a chromatic scale,” said Siegmund. “Yes, but the
settled pitch—is it about E?”

“E!” exclaimed Siegmund. “More like F.”

“Nay, listen!” said Helena. They stood still and waited till there came the long
booing of the fog-horn. “There!” exclaimed Siegmund, imitating the sound. “That
is not E.” He repeated the sound. “It is F.”

“Surely it is E,” persisted Helena. “Even F sharp,” he rejoined, humming the
note. She laughed, and told him to climb the chromatic scale. “But you agree?”
he said. “I do not,” she replied. The fog was cold. It seemed to rob them of
their courage to talk. “What is the note in _Tristan_?” Helena made an effort to
ask. “That is not the same,” he replied. “No, dear, that is not the same,” she
said in low, comforting tones. He quivered at the caress. She put her arms round
him reached up her face yearningly for a kiss. He forgot they were standing in
the public footpath, in daylight, till she drew hastily away. She heard
footsteps down the fog. As they climbed the path the mist grew thinner, till it
was only a grey haze at the top. There they were on the turfy lip of the land.
The sky was fairly clear overhead. Below them the sea was singing hoarsely to
itself. Helena drew him to the edge of the cliff. He crushed her hand, drawing
slightly back. But it pleased her to feel the grip on her hand becoming
unbearable. They stood right on the edge, to see the smooth cliff slope into the
mist, under which the sea stirred noisily. “Shall we walk over, then?” said
Siegmund, glancing downwards. Helena’s heart stood still a moment at the idea,
then beat heavily. How could he play with the idea of death, and the five great
days in front? She was afraid of him just then. “Come away, dear,” she pleaded.
He would, then, forgo the few consummate days! It was bitterness to her to think
so. “Come away, dear!” she repeated, drawing him slowly to the path. “You are
not afraid?” he asked. “Not afraid, no….” Her voice had that peculiar, reedy,
harsh quality that made him shiver. “It is too easy a way,” he said satirically.
She did not take in his meaning. “And five days of our own before us, Siegmund!”
she scolded. “The mist is Lethe. It is enough for us if its spell lasts five
days.”

He laughed, and took her in his arms, kissing her very closely. They walked on
joyfully, locking behind them the doors of forgetfulness. As the sun set, the
fog dispersed a little. Breaking masses of mist went flying from cliff to cliff,
and far away beyond the cliffs the western sky stood dimmed with gold. The
lovers wandered aimlessly over the golf-links to where green mounds and turfed
banks suggested to Helena that she was tired, and would sit down. They faced the
lighted chamber of the west, whence, behind the torn, dull-gold curtains of fog,
the sun was departing with pomp. Siegmund sat very still, watching the sunset.
It was a splendid, flaming bridal chamber where he had come to Helena. He
wondered how to express it; how other men had borne this same glory. “What is
the music of it?” he asked. She glanced at him. His eyelids were half lowered,
his mouth slightly open, as if in ironic rhapsody. “Of what, dear?”

“What music do you think holds the best interpretation of sunset?”

His skin was gold, his real mood was intense. She revered him for a moment. “I
do not know,” she said quietly; and she rested her head against his shoulder,
looking out west. There was a space of silence, while Siegmund dreamed on. “A
Beethoven symphony—the one—” and he explained to her. She was not satisfied, but
leaned against him, making her choice. The sunset hung steady, she could
scarcely perceive a change. “The Grail music in _Lohengrin_,” she decided.
“Yes,” said Siegmund. He found it quite otherwise, but did not trouble to
dispute. He dreamed by himself. This displeased her. She wanted him for herself.
How could he leave her alone while he watched the sky? She almost put her two
hands over his eyes. IV

The gold march of sunset passed quickly, the ragged curtains of mist closed to.
Soon Siegmund and Helena were shut alone within the dense wide fog. She shivered
with the cold and the damp. Startled, he took her in his arms, where she lay and
clung to him. Holding her closely, he bent forward, straight to her lips. His
moustache was drenched cold with fog, so that she shuddered slightly after his
kiss, and shuddered again. He did not know why the strong tremor passed through
her. Thinking it was with fear and with cold, he undid his overcoat, put her
close on his breast, and covered her as best he could. That she feared him at
that moment was half pleasure, half shame to him. Pleadingly he hid his face on
her shoulder, held her very tightly, till his face grew hot, buried against her
soft strong throat. “You are so big I can’t hold you,” she whispered
plaintively, catching her breath with fear. Her small hands grasped at the
breadth of his shoulders ineffectually. “You will be cold. Put your hands under
my coat,” he whispered. He put her inside his overcoat and his coat. She came to
his warm breast with a sharp intaking of delight and fear; she tried to make her
hands meet in the warmth of his shoulders, tried to clasp him. “See! I can’t,”
she whispered. He laughed short, and pressed her closer. Then, tucking her head
in his breast, hiding her face, she timidly slid her hands along his sides,
pressing softly, to find the contours of his figure. Softly her hands crept over
the silky back of his waistcoat, under his coats, and as they stirred, his blood
flushed up, and up again, with fire, till all Siegmund was hot blood, and his
breast was one great ache. He crushed her to him—crushed her in upon the ache of
his chest. His muscles set hard and unyielding; at that moment he was a tense,
vivid body of flesh, without a mind; his blood, alive and conscious, running
towards her. He remained perfectly still, locked about Helena, conscious of
nothing. She was hurt and crushed, but it was pain delicious to her. It was
marvellous to her how strong he was, to keep up that grip of her like steel. She
swooned in a kind of intense bliss. At length she found herself released, taking
a great breath, while Siegmund was moving his mouth over her throat, something
like a dog snuffing her, but with his lips. Her heart leaped away in revulsion.
His moustache thrilled her strangely. His lips, brushing and pressing her throat
beneath the ear, and his warm breath flying rhythmically upon her, made her
vibrate through all her body. Like a violin under the bow, she thrilled beneath
his mouth, and shuddered from his moustache. Her heart was like fire in her
breast. Suddenly she strained madly to him, and, drawing back her head, placed
her lips on his, close, till at the mouth they seemed to melt and fuse together.
It was the long, supreme kiss, in which man and woman have one being, Two-in-
one, the only Hermaphrodite. When Helena drew away her lips, she was exhausted.
She belonged to that class of “dreaming women” with whom passion exhausts itself
at the mouth. Her desire was accomplished in a real kiss. The fire, in heavy
flames, had poured through her to Siegmund, from Siegmund to her. It sank, and
she felt herself flagging. She had not the man’s brightness and vividness of
blood. She lay upon his breast, dreaming how beautiful it would be to go to
sleep, to swoon unconscious there, on that rare bed. She lay still on Siegmund’s
breast, listening to his heavily beating heart. With her the dream was always
more than the actuality. Her dream of Siegmund was more to her than Siegmund
himself. He might be less than her dream, which is as it may be. However, to the
real man she was very cruel. He held her close. His dream was melted in his
blood, and his blood ran bright for her. His dreams were the flowers of his
blood. Hers were more detached and inhuman. For centuries a certain type of
woman has been rejecting the “animal” in humanity, till now her dreams are
abstract, and full of fantasy, and her blood runs in bondage, and her kindness
is full of cruelty. Helena lay flagging upon the breast of Siegmund. He folded
her closely, and his mouth and his breath were warm on her neck. She sank away
from his caresses, passively, subtly drew back from him. He was far too
sensitive not to be aware of this, and far too much of a man not to yield to the
woman. His heart sank, his blood grew sullen at her withdrawal. Still he held
her; the two were motionless and silent for some time. She became distressedly
conscious that her feet, which lay on the wet grass, were aching with cold. She
said softly, gently, as if he was her child whom she must correct and lead:

“I think we ought to go home, Siegmund.” He made a small sound, that might mean
anything, but did not stir or release her. His mouth, however, remained
motionless on her throat, and the caress went out of it. “It is cold and wet,
dear; we ought to go,” she coaxed determinedly. “Soon,” he said thickly. She
sighed, waited a moment, then said very gently, as if she were loath to take him
from his pleasure:

“Siegmund, I am cold.”

There was a reproach in this which angered him. “Cold!” he exclaimed. “But you
are warm with me—”

“But my feet are out on the grass, dear, and they are like wet pebbles.”

“Oh dear!” he said. “Why didn’t you give them me to warm?” He leaned forward,
and put his hand on her shoes. “They are very cold,” he said. “We must hurry and
make them warm.”

When they rose, her feet were so numbed she could hardly stand. She clung to
Siegmund, laughing. “I wish you had told me before,” he said. “I ought to have
known….”

Vexed with himself, he put his arm round her, and they set off home. V

They found the fire burning brightly in their room. The only other person in the
pretty, stiffly-furnished cottage was their landlady, a charming old lady, who
let this sitting-room more for the change, for the sake of having visitors, than
for gain. Helena introduced Siegmund as “My friend”. The old lady smiled upon
him. He was big, and good-looking, and embarrassed. She had had a son years
back…. And the two were lovers. She hoped they would come to her house for their
honeymoon. Siegmund sat in his great horse-hair chair by the fire, while Helena
attended to the lamp. Glancing at him over the glowing globe, she found him
watching her with a small, peculiar smile of irony, and anger, and bewilderment.
He was not quite himself. Her hand trembled so, she could scarcely adjust the
wicks. Helena left the room to change her dress. “I shall be back before Mrs
Curtiss brings in the tray. There is the Nietzsche I brought—”

He did not answer as he watched her go. Left alone, he sat with his arms along
his knees, perfectly still. His heart beat heavily, and all his being felt
sullen, watchful, aloof, like a balked animal. Thoughts came up in his brain
like bubbles—random, hissing out aimlessly. Once, in the startling
inflammability of his blood, his veins ran hot, and he smiled. When Helena
entered the room his eyes sought hers swiftly, as sparks lighting on the tinder.
But her eyes were only moist with tenderness. His look instantly changed. She
wondered at his being so silent, so strange. Coming to him in her unhesitating,
womanly way—she was only twenty-six to his thirty-eight—she stood before him,
holding both his hands and looking down on him with almost gloomy tenderness.
She wore a white dress that showed her throat gathering like a fountain-jet of
solid foam to balance her head. He could see the full white arms passing clear
through the dripping spume of lace, towards the rise of her breasts. But her
eyes bent down upon him with such gloom of tenderness that he dared not reveal
the passion burning in him. He could not look at her. He strove almost pitifully
to be with her sad, tender, but he could not put out his fire. She held both his
hands firm, pressing them in appeal for her dream love. He glanced at her
wistfully, then turned away. She waited for him. She wanted his caresses and
tenderness. He would not look at her. “You would like supper now, dear?” she
asked, looking where the dark hair ended, and his neck ran smooth, under his
collar, to the strong setting of his shoulders. “Just as you will,” he replied.
Still she waited, and still he would not look at her. Something troubled him,
she thought. He was foreign to her. “I will spread the cloth, then,” she said,
in deep tones of resignation. She pressed his hands closely, and let them drop.
He took no notice, but, still with his arms on his knees, he stared into the
fire. In the golden glow of lamplight she set small bowls of white and lavender
sweet-peas, and mignonette, upon the round table. He watched her moving, saw the
stir of her white, sloping shoulders under the lace, and the hollow of her
shoulders firm as marble, and the slight rise and fall of her loins as she
walked. He felt as if his breast were scalded. It was a physical pain to him.
Supper was very quiet. Helena was sad and gentle; he had a peculiar, enigmatic
look in his eyes, between suffering and mockery and love. He was quite
intractable; he would not soften to her, but remained there aloof. He was tired,
and the look of weariness and suffering was evident to her through his
strangeness. In her heart she wept. At last she tinkled the bell for supper to
be cleared. Meanwhile, restlessly, she played fragments of Wagner on the piano.
“Will you want anything else?” asked the smiling old landlady. “Nothing at all,
thanks,” said Helena, with decision. “Oh! then I think I will go to bed when
I’ve washed the dishes. You will put the lamp out, dear?”

“I am well used to a lamp,” smiled Helena. “We use them always at home.”

She had had a day before Siegmund’s coming, in which to win Mrs Curtiss’ heart,
and she had been successful. The old lady took the tray. “Good-night, dear—good-
night, sir. I will leave you. You will not be long, dear?”

“No, we shall not be long. Mr MacNair is very evidently tired out.”

“Yes—yes. It is very tiring, London.”

When the door was closed, Helena stood a moment undecided, looking at Siegmund.
He was lying in his arm-chair in a dispirited way, and looking in the fire. As
she gazed at him with troubled eyes, he happened to glance to her, with the same
dark, curiously searching, disappointed eyes. “Shall I read to you?” she asked
bitterly. “If you will,” he replied. He sounded so indifferent, she could
scarcely refrain from crying. She went and stood in front of him, looking down
on him heavily. “What is it, dear?” she said. “You,” he replied, smiling with a
little grimace. “Why me?”

He smiled at her ironically, then closed his eyes. She slid into his arms with a
little moan. He took her on his knee, where she curled up like a heavy white
cat. She let him caress her with his mouth, and did not move, but lay there
curled up and quiet and luxuriously warm. He kissed her hair, which was
beautifully fragrant of itself, and time after time drew between his lips one
long, keen thread, as if he would ravel out with his mouth her vigorous
confusion of hair. His tenderness of love was like a soft flame lapping her
voluptuously. After a while they heard the old lady go upstairs. Helena went
very still, and seemed to contract. Siegmund himself hesitated in his love-
making. All was very quiet. They could hear the faint breathing of the sea.
Presently the cat, which had been sleeping in a chair, rose and went to the
door. “Shall I let her out?” said Siegmund. “Do!” said Helena, slipping from his
knee. “She goes out when the nights are fine.”

Siegmund rose to set free the tabby. Hearing the front door open, Mrs Curtiss
called from upstairs: “Is that you, dear?”

“I have just let Kitty out,” said Siegmund. “Ah, thank you. Good night!” They
heard the old lady lock her bedroom door. Helena was kneeling on the hearth.
Siegmund softly closed the door, then waited a moment. His heart was beating
fast. “Shall we sit by firelight?” he asked tentatively. “Yes—If you wish,” she
replied, very slowly, as if against her will. He carefully turned down the lamp,
then blew out the light. His whole body was burning and surging with desire. The
room was black and red with firelight. Helena shone ruddily as she knelt, a
bright, bowed figure, full in the glow. Now and then red stripes of firelight
leapt across the walls. Siegmund, his face ruddy, advanced out of the shadows.
He sat in the chair beside her, leaning forward, his hands hanging like two
scarlet flowers listless in the fire glow, near to her, as she knelt on the
hearth, with head bowed down. One of the flowers awoke and spread towards her.
It asked for her mutely. She was fascinated, scarcely able to move. “Come,” he
pleaded softly. She turned, lifted her hands to him. The lace fell back, and her
arms, bare to the shoulder, shone rosily. He saw her breasts raised towards him.
Her face was bent between her arms as she looked up at him afraid. Lit by the
firelight, in her white, clinging dress, cowering between her uplifted arms, she
seemed to be offering him herself to sacrifice. In an instant he was kneeling,
and she was lying on his shoulder, abandoned to him. There was a good deal of
sorrow in his joy. It was eleven o’clock when Helena at last loosened Siegmund’s
arms, and rose from the armchair where she lay beside him. She was very hot,
feverish, and restless. For the last half-hour he had lain absolutely still,
with his heavy arms about her, making her hot. If she had not seen his eyes blue
and dark, she would have thought him asleep. She tossed in restlessness on his
breast. “Am I not uneasy?” she had said, to make him speak. He had smiled
gently. “It is wonderful to be as still as this,” he said. She had lain tranquil
with him, then, for a few moments. To her there was something sacred in his
stillness and peace. She wondered at him; he was so different from an hour ago.
How could he be the same! Now he was like the sea, blue and hazy in the morning,
musing by itself. Before, he was burning, volcanic, as if he would destroy her.
She had given him this new soft beauty. She was the earth in which his strange
flowers grew. But she herself wondered at the flowers produced of her. He was so
strange to her, so different from herself. What next would he ask of her, what
new blossom would she rear in him then. He seemed to grow and flower
involuntarily. She merely helped to produce him. Helena could not keep still;
her body was full of strange sensations, of involuntary recoil from shock. She
was tired, but restless. All the time Siegmund lay with his hot arms over her,
himself so incomprehensible in his base of blue, open-eyed slumber, she grew
more breathless and unbearable to herself. At last she lifted his arm, and drew
herself out of the chair. Siegmund looked at her from his tranquillity. She put
the damp hair from her forehead, breathed deep, almost panting. Then she glanced
hauntingly at her flushed face in the mirror. With the same restlessness, she
turned to look at the night. The cool, dark, watery sea called to her. She
pushed back the curtain. The moon was wading deliciously through shallows of
white cloud. Beyond the trees and the few houses was the great concave of
darkness, the sea, and the moonlight. The moon was there to put a cool hand of
absolution on her brow. “Shall we go out a moment, Siegmund?” she asked
fretfully. “Ay, if you wish to,” he answered, altogether willing. He was filled
with an easiness that would comply with her every wish. They went out softly,
walked in silence to the bay. There they stood at the head of the white, living
moonpath, where the water whispered at the casement of the land seductively.
“It’s the finest night I have seen,” said Siegmund. Helena’s eyes suddenly
filled with tears, at his simplicity of happiness. “I like the moon on the
water,” she said. “I can hardly tell the one from the other,” he replied simply.
“The sea seems to be poured out of the moon, and rocking in the hands of the
coast. They are all one, just as your eyes and hands and what you say, are all
you.”

“Yes,” she answered, thrilled. This was the Siegmund of her dream, and she had
created him. Yet there was a quiver of pain. He was beyond her now, and did not
need her. “I feel at home here,” he said; “as if I had come home where I was
bred.”

She pressed his hand hard, clinging to him. “We go an awful long way round,
Helena,” he said, “just to find we’re all right.” He laughed pleasantly. “I have
thought myself such an outcast! How can one be outcast in one’s own night, and
the moon always naked to us, and the sky half her time in rags? What do we
want?”

Helena did not know. Nor did she know what he meant. But she felt something of
the harmony. “Whatever I have or haven’t from now,” he continued, “the darkness
is a sort of mother, and the moon a sister, and the stars children, and
sometimes the sea is a brother: and there’s a family in one house, you see.”

“And I, Siegmund?” she said softly, taking him in all seriousness. She looked up
at him piteously. He saw the silver of tears among the moonlit ivory of her
face. His heart tightened with tenderness, and he laughed, then bent to kiss
her. “The key of the castle,” he said. He put his face against hers, and felt on
his cheek the smart of her tears. “It’s all very grandiose,” he said
comfortably, “but it does for tonight, all this that I say.”

“It is true for ever,” she declared. “In so far as tonight is eternal,” he said.
He remained, with the wetness of her cheek smarting on his, looking from under
his brows at the white transport of the water beneath the moon. They stood
folded together, gazing into the white heart of the night. VI

Siegmund woke with wonder in the morning. “It is like the magic tales,” he
thought, as he realized where he was; “and I am transported to a new life, to
realize my dream! Fairy-tales are true, after all.”

He had slept very deeply, so that he felt strangely new. He issued with delight
from the dark of sleep into the sunshine. Reaching out his hand, he felt for his
watch. It was seven o’clock. The dew of a sleep-drenched night glittered before
his eyes. Then he laughed and forgot the night. The creeper was tapping at the
window, as a little wind blew up the sunshine. Siegmund put out his hands for
the unfolding happiness of the morning. Helena was in the next room, which she
kept inviolate. Sparrows in the creeper were shaking shadows of leaves among the
sunshine; milk-white shallop of cloud stemmed bravely across the bright sky; the
sea would be blossoming with a dewy shimmer of sunshine. Siegmund rose to look,
and it was so. Also the houses, like white, and red, and black cattle, were
wandering down the bay, with a mist of sunshine between him and them. He leaned
with his hands on the window-ledge looking out of the casement. The breeze
ruffled his hair, blew down the neck of his sleeping-jacket upon his chest. He
laughed, hastily threw on his clothes, and went out. There was no sign of
Helena. He strode along, singing to himself, and spinning his towel
rhythmically. A small path led him across a field and down a zigzag in front of
the cliffs. Some nooks, sheltered from the wind, were warm with sunshine,
scented of honeysuckle and of thyme. He took a sprig of woodbine that was
coloured of cream and butter. The grass wetted his brown shoes and his flannel
trousers. Again, a fresh breeze put the scent of the sea in his uncovered hair.
The cliff was a tangle of flowers above and below, with poppies at the lip being
blown out like red flame, and scabious leaning inquisitively to look down, and
pink and white rest-harrow everywhere, very pretty. Siegmund stood at a bend
where heath blossomed in shaggy lilac, where the sunshine but no wind came. He
saw the blue bay curl away to the far-off headland. A few birds, white and
small, circled, dipped by the thin foam-edge of the water; a few ships dimmed
the sea with silent travelling; a few small people, dark or naked-white, moved
below the swinging birds. He chose his bathing-place where the incoming tide had
half covered a stretch of fair, bright sand that was studded with rocks
resembling square altars, hollowed on top. He threw his clothes on a high rock.
It delighted him to feel the fresh, soft fingers of the wind touching him and
wandering timidly over his nakedness. He ran laughing over the sand to the sea,
where he waded in, thrusting his legs noisily through the heavy green water. It
was cold, and he shrank. For a moment he found himself thigh-deep, watching the
horizontal stealing of a ship through the intolerable glitter, afraid to plunge.
Laughing, he went under the clear green water. He was a poor swimmer. Sometimes
a choppy wave swamped him, and he rose gasping, wringing the water from his eyes
and nostrils, while he heaved and sank with the rocking of the waves that
clasped his breast. Then he stooped again to resume his game with the sea. It is
splendid to play, even at middle age, and the sea is a fine partner. With his
eyes at the shining level of the water, he liked to peer across, taking a seal’s
view of the cliffs as they confronted the morning. He liked to see the ships
standing up on a bright floor; he liked to see the birds come down. But in his
playing he drifted towards the spur of rock, where, as he swam, he caught his
thigh on a sharp, submerged point. He frowned at the pain, at the sudden cruelty
of the sea; then he thought no more of it, but ruffled his way back to the clear
water, busily continuing his play. When he ran out on to the fair sand his
heart, and brain, and body were in a turmoil. He panted, filling his breast with
the air that was sparkled and tasted of the sea. As he shuddered a little, the
wilful palpitations of his flesh pleased him, as if birds had fluttered against
him. He offered his body to the morning, glowing with the sea’s passion. The
wind nestled in to him, the sunshine came on his shoulders like warm breath. He
delighted in himself. The rock before him was white and wet, like himself; it
had a pool of clear water, with shells and one rose anemone. “She would make so
much of this little pool,” he thought. And as he smiled, he saw, very faintly,
his own shadow in the water. It made him conscious of himself, seeming to look
at him. He glanced at himself, at his handsome, white maturity. As he looked he
felt the insidious creeping of blood down his thigh, which was marked with a
long red slash. Siegmund watched the blood travel over the bright skin. It wound
itself redly round the rise of his knee. “That is I, that creeping red, and this
whiteness I pride myself on is I, and my black hair, and my blue eyes are I. It
is a weird thing to be a person. What makes me myself, among all these?”

Feeling chill, he wiped himself quickly. “I am at my best, at my strongest,” he
said proudly to himself. “She ought to be rejoiced at me, but she is not; she
rejects me as if I were a baboon under my clothing.”

He glanced at his whole handsome maturity, the firm plating of his breasts, the
full thighs, creatures proud in themselves. Only he was marred by the long raw
scratch, which he regretted deeply. “If I was giving her myself, I wouldn’t want
that blemish on me,” he thought. He wiped the blood from the wound. It was
nothing. “She thinks ten thousand times more of that little pool, with a bit of
pink anemone and some yellow weed, than of me. But, by Jove! I’d rather see her
shoulders and breast than all heaven and earth put together could show…. Why
doesn’t she like me?” he thought as he dressed. It was his physical self
thinking. After dabbling his feet in a warm pool, he returned home. Helena was
in the dining-room arranging a bowl of purple pansies. She looked up at him
rather heavily as he stood radiant on the threshold. He put her at her ease. It
was a gay, handsome boy she had to meet, not a man, strange and insistent. She
smiled on him with tender dignity. “You have bathed?” she said, smiling, and
looking at his damp, ruffled black hair. She shrank from his eyes, but he was
quite unconscious. “You have not bathed!” he said; then bent to kiss her. She
smelt the brine in his hair. “No; I bathe later,” she replied. “But what—”

Hesitating, she touched the towel, then looked up at him anxiously. “It _is_
blood?” she said. “I grazed my thigh—nothing at all,” he replied. “Are you
sure?”

He laughed. “The towel looks bad enough,” she said. “It’s an alarmist,” he
laughed. She looked in concern at him, then turned aside. “Breakfast is quite
ready,” she said. “And I for breakfast—but shall I do?”

She glanced at him. He was without a collar, so his throat was bare above the
neck-band of his flannel shirt. Altogether she disapproved of his slovenly
appearance. He was usually so smart in his dress. “I would not trouble,” she
said almost sarcastically. Whistling, he threw the towel on a chair. “How did
you sleep?” she asked gravely, as she watched him beginning to eat. “Like the
dead—solid,” he replied”. “And you?”

“Oh, pretty well, thanks,” she said, rather piqued that he had slept so deeply,
whilst she had tossed, and had called his name in a torture of sleeplessness. “I
haven’t slept like that for years,” he said enthusiastically. Helena smiled
gently on him. The charm of his handsome, healthy zest came over her. She liked
his naked throat and his shirt-breast, which suggested the breast of the man
beneath it. She was extraordinarily happy, with him so bright. The dark-faced
pansies, in a little crowd, seemed gaily winking a golden eye at her. After
breakfast, while Siegmund dressed, she went down to the sea. She dwelled, as she
passed, on all tiny, pretty things—on the barbaric yellow ragwort, and pink
convolvuli; on all the twinkling of flowers, and dew, and snail-tracks drying in
the sun. Her walk was one long lingering. More than the spaces, she loved the
nooks, and fancy more than imagination. She wanted to see just as she pleased,
without any of humanity’s previous vision for spectacles. So she knew hardly any
flower’s name, nor perceived any of the relationships, nor cared a jot about an
adaptation or a modification. It pleased her that the lowest browny florets of
the clover hung down; she cared no more. She clothed everything in fancy. “That
yellow flower hadn’t time to be brushed and combed by the fairies before dawn
came. It is tousled …” so she thought to herself. The pink convolvuli were fairy
horns or telephones from the day fairies to the night fairies. The rippling
sunlight on the sea was the Rhine maidens spreading their bright hair to the
sun. That was her favourite form of thinking. The value of all things was in the
fancy they evoked. She did not care for people; they were vulgar, ugly, and
stupid, as a rule. Her sense of satisfaction was complete as she leaned on the
low sea-wall, spreading her fingers to warm on the stones, concocting magic out
of the simple morning. She watched the indolent chasing of wavelets round the
small rocks, the curling of the deep blue water round the water-shadowed reefs.
“This is very good,” she said to herself. “This is eternally cool, and clean and
fresh. It could never be spoiled by satiety.”

She tried to wash herself with the white and blue morning, to clear away the
soiling of the last night’s passion. The sea played by itself, intent on its own
game. Its aloofness, its self-sufficiency, are its great charm. The sea does not
give and take, like the land and the sky. It has no traffic with the world. It
spends its passion upon itself. Helena was something like the sea, self-
sufficient and careless of the rest. Siegmund came bareheaded, his black hair
ruffling to the wind, his eyes shining warmer than the sea-like cornflowers
rather, his limbs swinging backward and forward like the water. Together they
leaned on the wall, warming the four white hands upon the grey bleached stone as
they watched the water playing. When Siegmund had Helena near, he lost the ache,
the yearning towards something, which he always felt otherwise. She seemed to
connect him with the beauty of things, as if she were the nerve through which he
received intelligence of the sun, and wind, and sea, and of the moon and the
darkness. Beauty she never felt herself came to him through her. It is that
makes love. He could always sympathize with the wistful little flowers, and
trees lonely in their crowds, and wild, sad seabirds. In these things he
recognized the great yearning, the ache outwards towards something, with which
he was ordinarily burdened. But with Helena, in this large sea-morning, he was
whole and perfect as the day. “Will it be fine all day?” he asked, when a cloud
came over. “I don’t know,” she replied in her gentle, inattentive manner, as if
she did not care at all. “I think it will be a mixed day—cloud and sun—more sun
than cloud.”

She looked up gravely to see if he agreed. He turned from frowning at the cloud
to smile at her. He seemed so bright, teeming with life. “I like a bare blue
sky,” he said; “sunshine that you seem to stir about as you walk.”

“It is warm enough here, even for you,” she smiled. “Ah, here!” he answered,
putting his face down to receive the radiation from the stone, letting his
fingers creep towards Helena’s. She laughed, and captured his fingers, pressing
them into her hand. For nearly an hour they remained thus in the still sunshine
by the sea-wall, till Helena began to sigh, and to lift her face to the little
breeze that wandered down from the west. She fled as soon from warmth as from
cold. Physically, she was always so; she shrank from anything extreme. But
psychically she was an extremist, and a dangerous one. They climbed the hill to
the fresh-breathing west. On the highest point of land stood a tall cross,
railed in by a red iron fence. They read the inscription. “That’s all right—but
a vilely ugly railing!” exclaimed Siegmund. “Oh, they’d have to fence in Lord
Tennyson’s white marble,” said Helena, rather indefinitely. He interpreted her
according to his own idea. “Yes, he did belittle great things, didn’t he?” said
Siegmund. “Tennyson!” she exclaimed. “Not peacocks and princesses, but the
bigger things.”

“I shouldn’t say so,” she declared. He sounded indeterminate, but was not really
so. They wandered over the downs westward, among the wind. As they followed the
headland to the Needles, they felt the breeze from the wings of the sea brushing
them, and heard restless, poignant voices screaming below the cliffs. Now and
again a gull, like a piece of spume flung up, rose over the cliff’s edge, and
sank again. Now and again, as the path dipped in a hollow, they could see the
low, suspended intertwining of the birds passing in and out of the cliff
shelter. These savage birds appealed to all the poetry and yearning in Helena.
They fascinated her, they almost voiced her. She crept nearer and nearer the
edge, feeling she must watch the gulls thread out in flakes of white above the
weed-black rocks. Siegmund stood away back, anxiously. He would not dare to
tempt Fate now, having too strong a sense of death to risk it. “Come back, dear.
Don’t go so near,” he pleaded, following as close as he might. She heard the
pain and appeal in his voice. It thrilled her, and she went a little nearer.
What was death to her but one of her symbols, the death of which the sagas
talk—something grand, and sweeping, and dark. Leaning forward, she could see the
line of grey sand and the line of foam broken by black rocks, and over all the
gulls, stirring round like froth on a pot, screaming in chorus. She watched the
beautiful birds, heard the pleading of Siegmund, and she thrilled with pleasure,
toying with his keen anguish. Helena came smiling to Siegmund, saying:

“They look so fine down there.”

He fastened his hands upon her, as a relief from his pain. He was filled with a
keen, strong anguish of dread, like a presentiment. She laughed as he gripped
her. They went searching for a way of descent. At last Siegmund inquired of the
coastguard the nearest way down the cliff. He was pointed to the “Path of the
Hundred Steps”. “When is a hundred not a hundred?” he said sceptically, as they
descended the dazzling white chalk. There were sixty-eight steps. Helena laughed
at his exactitude. “It must be a love of round numbers,” he said. “No doubt,”
she laughed. He took the thing so seriously. “Or of exaggeration,” he added.
There was a shelving beach of warm white sand, bleached soft as velvet. A
sounding of gulls filled the dark recesses of the headland; a low chatter of
shingle came from where the easy water was breaking; the confused, shell-like
murmur of the sea between the folded cliffs. Siegmund and Helena lay side by
side upon the dry sand, small as two resting birds, while thousands of gulls
whirled in a white-flaked storm above them, and the great cliffs towered beyond,
and high up over the cliffs the multitudinous clouds were travelling, a vast
caravan _en route_. Amidst the journeying of oceans and clouds and the circling
flight of heavy spheres, lost to sight in the sky, Siegmund and Helena, two
grains of life in the vast movement, were travelling a moment side by side. They
lay on the beach like a grey and a white sea-bird together. The lazy ships that
were idling down the Solent observed the cliffs and the boulders, but Siegmund
and Helena were too little. They lay ignored and insignificant, watching through
half-closed fingers the diverse caravan of Day go past. They lay with their
latticed fingers over their eyes, looking out at the sailing of ships across
their vision of blue water. “Now, that one with the greyish sails—” Siegmund was
saying. “Like a housewife of forty going placidly round with the duster—yes?”
interrupted Helena. “That is a schooner. You see her four sails, and—”

He continued to classify the shipping, until he was interrupted by the wicked
laughter of Helena. “That is right, I am sure,” he protested. “I won’t
contradict you,” she laughed, in a tone which showed him he knew even less of
the classifying of ships than she did. “So you have lain there amusing yourself
at my expense all the time?” he said, not knowing in the least why she laughed.
They turned and looked at one another, blue eyes smiling and wavering as the
beach wavers in the heat. Then they closed their eyes with sunshine. Drowsed by
the sun, and the white sand, and the foam, their thoughts slept like butterflies
on the flowers of delight. But cold shadows startled them up. “The clouds are
coming,” he said regretfully. “Yes; but the wind is quite strong enough for
them,” she answered,

“Look at the shadows—like blots floating away. Don’t they devour the sunshine?”

“It is quite warm enough here,” she said, nestling in to him. “Yes; but the
sting is missing. I like to feel the warmth biting in.”

“No, I do not. To be cosy is enough.”

“I like the sunshine on me, real, and manifest, and tangible. I feel like a seed
that has been frozen for ages. I want to be bitten by the sunshine.”

She leaned over and kissed him. The sun came bright-footed over the water,
leaving a shining print on Siegmund’s face. He lay, with half-closed eyes,
sprawled loosely on the sand. Looking at his limbs, she imagined he must be
heavy, like the bounders. She sat over him, with her fingers stroking his
eyebrows, that were broad and rather arched. He lay perfectly still, in a half-
dream. Presently she laid her head on his breast, and remained so, watching the
sea, and listening to his heart-beats. The throb was strong and deep. It seemed
to go through the whole island and the whole afternoon, and it fascinated her:
so deep, unheard, with its great expulsions of life. Had the world a heart? Was
there also deep in the world a great God thudding out waves of life, like a
great heart, unconscious? It frightened her. This was the God she knew not, as
she knew not this Siegmund. It was so different from the half-shut eyes with
black lashes, and the winsome, shapely nose. And the heart of the world, as she
heard it, could not be the same as the curling splash of retreat of the little
sleepy waves. She listened for Siegmund’s soul, but his heart overbeat all other
sound, thudding powerfully. VII

Siegmund woke to the muffled firing of guns on the sea. He looked across at the
shaggy grey water in wonder. Then he turned to Helena. “I suppose,” he said,
“they are saluting the Czar. Poor beggar!”

“I was afraid they would wake you,” she smiled. They listened again to the
hollow, dull sound of salutes from across the water and the downs. The day had
gone grey. They decided to walk, down below, to the next bay. “The tide is
coming in,” said Helena. “But this broad strip of sand hasn’t been wet for
months. It’s as soft as pepper,” he replied. They laboured along the shore,
beside the black, sinuous line of shrivelled fucus. The base of the cliff was
piled with chalk debris. On the other side was the level plain of the sea. Hand
in hand, alone and overshadowed by huge cliffs, they toiled on. The waves
staggered in, and fell, overcome at the end of the race. Siegmund and Helena
neared a headland, sheer as the side of a house, its base weighted with a
tremendous white mass of boulders, that the green sea broke amongst with a
hollow sound, followed by a sharp hiss of withdrawal. The lovers had to cross
this desert of white boulders, that glistened in smooth skins uncannily. But
Siegmund saw the waves were almost at the wall of the headland. Glancing back,
he saw the other headland white-dashed at the base with foam. He and Helena must
hurry, or they would be prisoned on the thin crescent of strand still remaining
between the great wall and the water. The cliffs overhead oppressed him—made him
feel trapped and helpless. He was caught by them in a net of great boulders,
while the sea fumbled for him. But he and Helena. She laboured strenuously
beside him, blinded by the skin-like glisten of the white rock. “I think I will
rest awhile,” she said. “No, come along,” he begged. “My dear,” she laughed,
“there is tons of this shingle to buttress us from the sea.”

He looked at the waves curving and driving maliciously at the boulders. It would
be ridiculous to be trapped. “Look at this black wood,” she said. “Does the sea
really char it?”

“Let us get round the corner,” he begged. “Really, Siegmund, the sea is not so
anxious to take us,” she said ironically. When they rounded the first point,
they found themselves in a small bay jutted out to sea; the front of the
headland was, as usual, grooved. This bay was pure white at the base, from its
great heaped mass of shingle. With the huge concave of the cliff behind, the
foothold of massed white boulders, and the immense arc of the sea in front,
Helena was delighted. “This is fine, Siegmund!” she said, halting and facing
west. Smiling ironically, he sat down on a boulder. They were quite alone, in
this great white niche thrust out to sea. Here, he could see, the tide would
beat the base of the wall. It came plunging not far from their feet. “Would you
really like to travel beyond the end?” he asked. She looked round quickly,
thrilled, then answered as if in rebuke:

“This is a fine place. I should like to stay here an hour.”

“And then where?”

“Then? Oh, then, I suppose, it would be tea-time.”

“Tea on brine and pink anemones, with Daddy Neptune.”

She looked sharply at the outjutting capes. The sea did foam perilously near
their bases. “I suppose it _is_ rather risky,” she said; and she turned, began
silently to clamber forwards. He followed; she should set the pace. “I have no
doubt there’s plenty of room, really,” he said. “The sea only looks near.”

But she toiled on intently. Now it was a question of danger, not of
inconvenience, Siegmund felt elated. The waves foamed up, as it seemed, against
the exposed headland, from which the massive shingle had been swept back.
Supposing they could not get by? He began to smile curiously. He became aware of
the tremendous noise of waters, of the slight shudder of the shingle when a wave
struck it, and he always laughed to himself. Helena laboured on in silence; he
kept just behind her. The point seemed near, but it took longer than they
thought. They had against them the tremendous cliff, the enormous weight of
shingle, and the swinging sea. The waves struck louder, booming fearfully; wind,
sweeping round the corner, wet their faces. Siegmund hoped they were cut off,
and hoped anxiously the way was clear. The smile became set on his face. Then he
saw there was a ledge or platform at the base of the cliff, and it was against
this the waves broke. They climbed the side of this ridge, hurried round to the
front. There the wind caught them, wet and furious; the water raged below.
Between the two Helena shrank, wilted. She took hold of Siegmund. The great,
brutal wave flung itself at the rock, then drew back for another heavy spring.
Fume and spray were spun on the wind like smoke. The roaring thud of the waves
reminded Helena of a beating heart. She clung closer to him, as her hair was
blown out damp, and her white dress flapped in the wet wind. Always, against the
rock, came the slow thud of the waves, like a great heart beating under the
breast. There was something brutal about it that she could not bear. She had no
weapon against brute force. She glanced up at Siegmund. Tiny drops of mist
greyed his eyebrows. He was looking out to sea, screwing up his eyes, and
smiling brutally. Her face became heavy and sullen. He was like the heart and
the brute sea, just here; he was not her Siegmund. She hated the brute in him.
Turning suddenly, she plunged over the shingle towards the wide, populous bay.
He remained alone, grinning at the smashing turmoil, careless of her departure.
He would easily catch her. When at last he turned from the wrestling water, he
had spent his savagery, and was sad. He could never take part in the great
battle of action. It was beyond him. Many things he had let slip by. His life
was whittled down to only a few interests, only a few necessities. Even here, he
had but Helena, and through her the rest. After this week—well, that was vague.
He left it in the dark, dreading it. And Helena was toiling over the rough beach
alone. He saw her small figure bowed as she plunged forward. It smote his heart
with the keenest tenderness. She was so winsome, a playmate with beauty and
fancy. Why was he cruel to her because she had not his own bitter wisdom of
experience? She was young and naïve, and should he be angry with her for that?
His heart was tight at the thought of her. She would have to suffer also,
because of him. He hurried after her. Not till they had nearly come to a little
green mound, where the downs sloped, and the cliffs were gone, did he catch her
up. Then he took her hand as they walked. They halted on the green hillock
beyond the sand, and, without a word, he folded her in his arms. Both were put
of breath. He clasped her close, seeming to rock her with his strong panting.
She felt his body lifting into her, and sinking away. It seemed to force a
rhythm, a new pulse, in her. Gradually, with a fine, keen thrilling, she melted
down on him, like metal sinking on a mould. He was sea and sunlight mixed,
heaving, warm, deliciously strong. Siegmund exulted. At last she was moulded to
him in pure passion. They stood folded thus for some time. Then Helena raised
her burning face, and relaxed. She was throbbing with strange elation and
satisfaction. “It might as well have been the sea as any other way, dear,” she
said, startling both of them. The speech went across their thoughtfulness like a
star flying into the night, from nowhere. She had no idea why she said it. He
pressed his mouth on hers. “Not for you,” he thought, by reflex. “You can’t go
that way yet.” But he said nothing, strained her very tightly, and kept her
lips. They were roused by the sound of voices. Unclasping, they went to walk at
the fringe of the water. The tide was creeping back. Siegmund stooped, and from
among the water’s combings picked up an electric-light bulb. It lay in some weed
at the base of a rock. He held it in his hand to Helena. Her face lighted with a
curious pleasure. She took the thing delicately from his hand, fingered it with
her exquisite softness. “Isn’t it remarkable!” she exclaimed joyously. “The sea
must be very, very gentle—and very kind.”

“Sometimes,” smiled Siegmund. “But I did not think it could be so fine-
fingered,” she said. She breathed on the glass bulb till it looked like a dim
magnolia bud; she inhaled its fine savour. “It would not have treated _you_ so
well,” he said. She looked at him with heavy eyes. Then she returned to her
bulb. Her fingers were very small and very pink. She had the most delicate touch
in the world, like a faint feel of silk. As he watched her lifting her fingers
from off the glass, then gently stroking it, his blood ran hot. He watched her,
waited upon her words and movements attentively. “It is a graceful act on the
sea’s part,” she said. “Wotan is so clumsy—he knocks over the bowl, and flap-
flap-flap go the gasping fishes, _pizzicato_!—but the sea—”

Helena’s speech was often difficult to render into plain terms. She was not
lucid. “But life’s so full of anti-climax,” she concluded. Siegmund smiled
softly at her. She had him too much in love to disagree or to examine her words.
“There’s no reckoning with life, and no reckoning with the sea. The only way to
get on with both is to be as near a vacuum as possible, and float,” he jested.
It hurt her that he was flippant. She proceeded to forget he had spoken. There
were three children on the beach. Helena had handed him back the senseless
bauble, not able to throw it away. Being a father:

“I will give it to the children,” he said. She looked up at him, loved him for
the thought. Wandering hand in hand, for it pleased them both to own each other
publicly, after years of conventional distance, they came to a little girl who
was bending over a pool. Her black hair hung in long snakes to the water. She
stood up, flung back her locks to see them as they approached. In one hand she
clasped some pebbles. “Would you like this? I found it down there,” said
Siegmund, offering her the bulb. She looked at him with grave blue eyes and
accepted his gift. Evidently she was not going to say anything. “The sea brought
it all the way from the mainland without breaking it,” said Helena, with the
interesting intonation some folk use to children. The girl looked at her. “The
waves put it out of their lap on to some seaweed with such careful fingers—”

The child’s eyes brightened. “The tide-line is full of treasures,” said Helena,
smiling. The child answered her smile a little. Siegmund had walked away. “What
beautiful eyes she had!” said Helena. “Yes,” he replied. She looked up at him.
He felt her searching him tenderly with her eyes. But he could not look back at
her. She took his hand and kissed it, knowing he was thinking of his own
youngest child. VIII

The way home lay across country, through deep little lanes where the late
foxgloves sat seriously, like sad hounds; over open downlands, rough with gorse
and ling, and through pocketed hollows of bracken and trees. They came to a
small Roman Catholic church in the fields. There the carved Christ looked down
on the dead whose sleeping forms made mounds under the coverlet. Helena’s heart
was swelling with emotion. All the yearning and pathos of Christianity filled
her again. The path skirted the churchyard wall, so that she had on the one hand
the sleeping dead, and on the other Siegmund, strong and vigorous, but walking
in the old, dejected fashion. She felt a rare tenderness and admiration for him.
It was unusual for her to be so humble-minded, but this evening she felt she
must minister to him, and be submissive. She made him stop to look at the
graves. Suddenly, as they stood, she kissed him, clasped him fervently, roused
him till his passion burned away his heaviness, and he seemed tipped with life,
his face glowing as if soon he would burst alight. Then she was satisfied, and
could laugh. As they went through the fir copse, listening to the birds like a
family assembled and chattering at home in the evening, listening to the light
swish of the wind, she let Siegmund predominate; he set the swing of their
motion; she rested on him like a bird on a swaying bough. They argued concerning
the way. Siegmund, as usual, submitted to her. They went quite wrong. As they
retraced their steps, stealthily, through a poultry farm whose fowls were
standing in forlorn groups, once more dismayed by evening, Helena’s pride
battled with her new subjugation to Siegmund. She walked head down, saying
nothing. He also was silent, but his heart was strong in him. Somewhere in the
distance a band was playing “The Watch on the Rhine”. As they passed the beeches
and were near home, Helena said, to try him, and to strike a last blow for her
pride:

“I wonder what next Monday will bring us.”

“Quick curtain,” he answered joyously. He was looking down and smiling at her
with such careless happiness that she loved him. He was wonderful to her. She
loved him, was jealous of every particle of him that evaded her. She wanted to
sacrifice to him, make herself a burning altar to him, and she wanted to possess
him. The hours that would be purely their own came too slowly for her. That
night she met his passion with love. It was not his passion she wanted,
actually. But she desired that he should want _her_ madly, and that he should
have all—everything. It was a wonderful night to him. It restored in him the
full “will to live”. But she felt it destroyed her. Her soul seemed blasted. At
seven o’clock in the morning Helena lay in the deliciously cool water, while
small waves ran up the beach full and clear and foamless, continuing perfectly
in their flicker the rhythm of the night’s passion. Nothing, she felt, had ever
been so delightful as this cool water running over her. She lay and looked out
on the shining sea. All things, it seemed, were made of sunshine more or less
soiled. The cliffs rose out of the shining waves like clouds of strong, fine
texture, and rocks along the shore were the dapplings of a bright dawn. The
coarseness was fused out of the world, so that sunlight showed in the veins of
the morning cliffs and the rocks. Yea, everything ran with sunshine, as we are
full of blood, and plants are tissued from green-gold, glistening sap. Substance
and solidity were shadows that the morning cast round itself to make itself
tangible: as she herself was a shadow, cast by that fragment of sunshine, her
soul, over its inefficiency. She remembered to have seen the bats flying low
over a burnished pool at sunset, and the web of their wings had burned in
scarlet flickers, as they stretched across the light. Winged momentarily on bits
of tissued flame, threaded with blood, the bats had flickered a secret to her.
Now the cliffs were like wings uplifted, and the morning was coming dimly
through them. She felt the wings of all the world upraised against the morning
in a flashing, multitudinous flight. The world itself was flying. Sunlight
poured on the large round world till she fancied it a heavy bee humming on its
iridescent atmosphere across a vast air of sunshine. She lay and rode the fine
journey. Sunlight liquid in the water made the waves heavy, golden, and rich
with a velvety coolness like cowslips. Her feet fluttered in the shadowy
underwater. Her breast came out bright as the breast of a white bird. Where was
Siegmund? she wondered. He also was somewhere among the sea and the sunshine,
white and playing like a bird, shining like a vivid, restless speck of sunlight.
She struck the water, smiling, feeling along with him. They two were the owners
of this morning, as a pair of wild, large birds inhabiting an empty sea.
Siegmund had found a white cave welling with green water, brilliant and full of
life as mounting sap. The white rock glimmered through the water, and soon
Siegmund shimmered also in the living green of the sea, like pale flowers
trembling upward. “The water,” said Siegmund, “is as full of life as I am,” and
he pressed forward his breast against it. He swam very well that morning; he had
more wilful life than the sea, so he mastered it laughingly with his arms,
feeling a delight in his triumph over the waves. Venturing recklessly in his new
pride, he swam round the corner of the rock, through an archway, lofty and
spacious, into a passage where the water ran like a flood of green light over
the skin-white bottom. Suddenly he emerged in the brilliant daylight of the next
tiny scoop of a bay. There he arrived like a pioneer, for the bay was
inaccessible from the land. He waded out of the green, cold water on to sand
that was pure as the shoulders of Helena, out of the shadow of the archway into
the sunlight, on to the glistening petal of this blossom of a sea-bay. He did
not know till he felt the sunlight how the sea had drunk with its cold lips
deeply of his warmth. Throwing himself down on the sand that was soft and warm
as white fur, he lay glistening wet, panting, swelling with glad pride at having
conquered also this small, inaccessible sea-cave, creeping into it like a white
bee into a white virgin blossom that had waited, how long, for its bee. The sand
was warm to his breast, and his belly, and his arms. It was like a great body he
cleaved to. Almost, he fancied, he felt it heaving under him in its breathing.
Then he turned his face to the sun, and laughed. All the while, he hugged the
warm body of the sea-bay beneath him. He spread his hands upon the sand; he took
it in handfuls, and let it run smooth, warm, delightful, through his fingers.
“Surely,” he said to himself, “it is like Helena;” and he laid his hands again
on the warm body of the shore, let them wander, discovering, gathering all the
warmth, the softness, the strange wonder of smooth warm pebbles, then shrinking
from the deep weight of cold his hand encountered as he burrowed under the
surface wrist-deep. In the end he found the cold mystery of the deep sand also
thrilling. He pushed in his hands again and deeper, enjoying the almost hurt of
the dark, heavy coldness. For the sun and the white flower of the bay were
breathing and kissing him dry, were holding him in their warm concave, like a
bee in a flower, like himself on the bosom of Helena, and flowing like the
warmth of her breath in his hair came the sunshine, breathing near and lovingly;
yet, under all, was this deep mass of cold, that the softness and warmth merely
floated upon. Siegmund lay and clasped the sand, and tossed it in handfuls till
over him he was all hot and cloyed. Then he rose and looked at himself and
laughed. The water was swaying reproachfully against the steep pebbles below,
murmuring like a child that it was not fair—it was not fair he should abandon
his playmate. Siegmund laughed, and began to rub himself free of the clogging
sand. He found himself strangely dry and smooth. He tossed more dry sand, and
more, over himself, busy and intent like a child playing some absorbing game
with itself. Soon his body was dry and warm and smooth as a camomile flower. He
was, however, greyed and smeared with sand-dust. Siegmund looked at himself with
disapproval, though his body was full of delight and his hands glad with the
touch of himself. He wanted himself clean. He felt the sand thick in his hair,
even in his moustache. He went painfully over the pebbles till he found himself
on the smooth rock bottom. Then he soused himself, and shook his head in the
water, and washed and splashed and rubbed himself with his hands assiduously. He
must feel perfectly clean and free—fresh, as if he had washed away all the years
of soilure in this morning’s sea and sun and sand. It was the purification.
Siegmund became again a happy priest of the sun. He felt as if all the dirt of
misery were soaked out of him, as he might soak clean a soiled garment in the
sea, and bleach it white on the sunny shore. So white and sweet and tissue-clean
he felt—full of lightness and grace. The garden in front of their house, where
Helena was waiting for him, was long and crooked, with a sunken flagstone
pavement running up to the door by the side of the lawn. On either hand the high
fence of the garden was heavy with wild clematis and honeysuckle. Helena sat
sideways, with a map spread out on her bench under the bushy little laburnum
tree, tracing the course of their wanderings. It was very still. There was just
a murmur of bees going in and out the brilliant little porches of nasturtium
flowers. The nasturtium leaf-coins stood cool and grey; in their delicate shade,
underneath in the green twilight, a few flowers shone their submerged gold and
scarlet. There was a faint scent of mignonette. Helena, like a white butterfly
in the shade, her two white arms for antennae stretching firmly to the bench,
leaned over her map. She was busy, very busy, out of sheer happiness. She traced
word after word, and evoked scene after scene. As she discovered a name, she
conjured up the place. As she moved to the next mark she imagined the long path
lifting and falling happily. She was waiting for Siegmund, yet his hand upon the
latch startled her. She rose suddenly, in agitation. Siegmund was standing in
the sunshine at the gate. They greeted each other across the tall roses. When
Siegmund was holding her hand, he said, softly laughing:

“You have come out of the water very beautiful this morning.”

She laughed. She was not beautiful, but she felt so at that moment. She glanced
up at him, full of love and gratefulness. “And you,” she murmured, in a still
tone, as if it were almost sacrilegiously unnecessary to say it. Siegmund was
glad. He rejoiced to be told he was beautiful. After a few moments of listening
to the bees and breathing the mignonette, he said:

“I found a little white bay, just like you—a virgin bay. I had to swim there.”

“Oh!” she said, very interested in him, not in the fact. “It seemed just like
you. Many things seem like you,” he said. She laughed again in her joyous
fashion, and the reed-like vibration came into her voice. “I saw the sun through
the cliffs, and the sea, and you,” she said. He did not understand. He looked at
her searchingly. She was white and still and inscrutable. Then she looked up at
him; her earnest eyes, that would not flinch, gazed straight into him. He
trembled, and things all swept into a blur. After she had taken away her eyes he
found himself saying:

“You know, I felt as if I were the first man to discover things: like Adam when
he opened the first eyes in the world.”

“I saw the sunshine in you,” repeated Helena quietly, looking at him with her
eyes heavy with meaning. He laughed again, not understanding, but feeling she
meant love. “No, but you have altered everything,” he said. The note of wonder,
of joy, in his voice touched her almost beyond self-control. She caught his hand
and pressed it; then quickly kissed it. He became suddenly grave. “I feel as if
it were right—you and me, Helena—so, even righteous. It is so, isn’t it? And the
sea and everything, they all seem with us. Do you think so?”

Looking at her, he found her eyes full of tears. He bent and kissed her, and she
pressed his head to her bosom. He was very glad. IX

The day waxed hot. A few little silver tortoises of cloud had crawled across the
desert of sky, and hidden themselves. The chalk roads were white, quivering with
heat. Helena and Siegmund walked eastward bareheaded under the sunshine. They
felt like two insects in the niche of a hot hearth as they toiled along the deep
road. A few poppies here and there among the wild rye floated scarlet in
sunshine like blood-drops on green water. Helena recalled Francis Thompson’s
poems, which Siegmund had never read. She repeated what she knew, and laughed,
thinking what an ineffectual pale shadow of a person Thompson must have been.
She looked at Siegmund, walking in large easiness beside her. “Artists are
supremely unfortunate persons,” she announced. “Think of Wagner,” said Siegmund,
lifting his face to the hot bright heaven, and drinking the heat with his
blinded face. All states seemed meagre, save his own. He recalled people who had
loved, and he pitied them—dimly, drowsily, without pain. They came to a place
where they might gain access to the shore by a path down a landslip. As they
descended through the rockery, yellow with ragwort, they felt themselves dip
into the inert, hot air of the bay. The living atmosphere of the uplands was
left overhead. Among the rocks of the sand, white as if smelted, the heat glowed
and quivered. Helena sat down and took off her shoes. She walked on the hot,
glistening sand till her feet were delightfully, almost intoxicatingly scorched.
Then she ran into the water to cool them. Siegmund and she paddled in the light
water, pensively watching the haste of the ripples, like crystal beetles,
running over the white outline of their feet; looking out on the sea that rose
so near to them, dwarfing them by its far reach. For a short time they flitted
silently in the water’s edge. Then there settled down on them a twilight of
sleep, the little hush that closes the doors and draws the blinds of the house
after a festival. They wandered out across the beach above high-water mark,
where they sat down together on the sand, leaning back against a flat brown
stone, Siegmund with the sunshine on his forehead, Helena drooping close to him,
in his shadow. Then the hours ride by unnoticed, making no sound as they go. The
sea creeps nearer, nearer, like a snake which watches two birds asleep. It may
not disturb them, but sinks back, ceasing to look at them with its bright eyes.
Meanwhile the flowers of their passion were softly shed, as poppies fall at
noon, and the seed of beauty ripened rapidly within them. Dreams came like a
wind through, their souls, drifting off with the seed-dust of beautiful
experience which they had ripened, to fertilize the souls of others withal. In
them the sea and the sky and ships had mingled and bred new blossoms of the
torrid heat of their love. And the seed of such blossoms was shaken as they
slept, into the hand of God, who held it in His palm preciously; then scattered
it again, to produce new splendid blooms of beauty. A little breeze came down
the cliffs. Sleep lightened the lovers of their experience; new buds were urged
in their souls as they lay in a shadowed twilight, at the porch of death. The
breeze fanned the face of Helena; a coolness wafted on her throat. As the
afternoon wore on she revived. Quick to flag, she was easy to revive, like a
white pansy flung into water. She shivered lightly and rose. Strange, it seemed
to her, to rise from the brown stone into life again. She felt beautifully
refreshed. All around was quick as a garden wet in the early morning of June.
She took her hair and loosened it, shook it free from sand, spread, and laughed
like a fringed poppy that opens itself to the sun. She let the wind comb through
its soft fingers the tangles of her hair. Helena loved the wind. She turned to
it, and took its kisses on her face and throat. Siegmund lay still, looking up
at her. The changes in him were deeper, like alteration in his tissue. His new
buds came slowly, and were of a fresh type. He lay smiling at her. At last he
said:

“You look now as if you belonged to the sea.”

“I do; and some day I shall go back to it,” she replied. For to her at that
moment the sea was a great lover, like Siegmund, but more impersonal, who would
receive her when Siegmund could not. She rejoiced momentarily in the fact.
Siegmund looked at her and continued smiling. His happiness was budded firm and
secure. “Come!” said Helena, holding out her hand. He rose somewhat reluctantly
from his large, fruitful inertia. X

Siegmund carried the boots and the shoes while they wandered over the sand to
the rocks. There was a delightful sense of risk in scrambling with bare feet
over the smooth irregular jumble of rocks. Helena laughed suddenly from fear as
she felt herself slipping. Siegmund’s heart was leaping like a child’s with
excitement as he stretched forward, himself very insecure, to succour her. Thus
they travelled slowly. Often she called to him to come and look in the lovely
little rock-pools, dusky with blossoms of red anemones and brown anemones that
seemed nothing but shadows, and curtained with green of finest sea-silk.
Siegmund loved to poke the white pebbles, and startle the little ghosts of crabs
in a shadowy scuttle through the weed. He would tease the expectant anemones,
causing them to close suddenly over his finger. But Helena liked to watch
without touching things. Meanwhile the sun was slanting behind the cross far
away to the west, and the light was swimming in silver and gold upon the
lacquered water. At last Siegmund looked doubtfully at two miles more of
glistening, gilded boulders. Helena was seated on a stone, dabbling her feet in
a warm pool, delicately feeling the wet sea-velvet of the weeds. “Don’t you
think we had better be mounting the cliffs?” he said. She glanced up at him,
smiling with irresponsible eyes. Then she lapped the water with her feet, and
surveyed her pink toes. She was absurdly, childishly happy. “Why should we?” she
asked lightly. He watched her. Her child-like indifference to consequences
touched him with a sense of the distance between them. He himself might play
with the delicious warm surface of life, but always he reeked of the relentless
mass of cold beneath—the mass of life which has no sympathy with the individual,
no cognizance of him. She loved the trifles and the toys, the mystery and the
magic of things. She would not own life to be relentless. It was either
beautiful, fantastic, or weird, or inscrutable, or else mean and vulgar, below
consideration. He had to get a sense of the anemone and a sympathetic knowledge
of its experience, into his blood, before he was satisfied. To Helena an anemone
was one more fantastic pretty figure in her kaleidoscope. So she sat dabbling
her pink feet in the water, quite unconscious of his gravity. He waited on her,
since he never could capture her. “Come,” he said very gently. “You are only six
years old today.”

She laughed as she let him take her. Then she nestled up to him, smiling in a
brilliant, child-like fashion. He kissed her with all the father in him sadly
alive. “Now put your stockings on,” he said. “But my feet are wet.” She laughed.
He kneeled down and dried her feet on his handkerchief while she sat tossing his
hair with her finger-tips. The sunlight grew more and more golden. “I envy the
savages their free feet,” she said. “There is no broken glass in the
wilderness—or there used not to be,” he replied. As they were crossing the
sands, a whole family entered by the cliff track. They descended in single file,
unequally, like the theatre; two boys, then a little girl, the father, another
girl, then the mother. Last of all trotted the dog, warily, suspicious of the
descent. The boys emerged into the bay with a shout; the dog rushed, barking,
after them. The little one waited for her father, calling shrilly:

“Tiss can’t fall now, can she, dadda? Shall I put her down?”

“Ay, let her have a run,” said the father. Very carefully she lowered the kitten
which she had carried clasped to her bosom. The mite was bewildered and scared.
It turned round pathetically. “Go on, Tissie; you’re all right,” said the child.
“Go on; have a run on the sand.”

The kitten stood dubious and unhappy. Then, perceiving the dog some distance
ahead, it scampered after him, a fluffy, scurrying mite. But the dog had already
raced into the water. The kitten walked a few steps, turning its small face this
way and that, and mewing piteously. It looked extraordinarily tiny as it stood,
a fluffy handful, staring away from the noisy water, its thin cry floating over
the plash of waves. Helena glanced at Siegmund, and her eyes were shining with
pity. He was watching the kitten and smiling. “Crying because things are too
big, and it can’t take them in,” he said. “But look how frightened it is,” she
said. “So am I.” He laughed. “And if there are any gods looking on and laughing
at me, at least they won’t be kind enough to put me in their pinafores….”

She laughed very quickly. “But why?” she exclaimed. “Why should you want putting
in a pinafore?”

“I don’t,” he laughed. On the top of the cliff they were between two bays, with
darkening blue water on the left, and on the right gold water smoothing to the
sun. Siegmund seemed to stand waist-deep in shadow, with his face bright and
glowing. He was watching earnestly. “I want to absorb it all,” he said. When at
last they turned away:

“Yes,” said Helena slowly; “one can recall the details, but never the
atmosphere.”

He pondered a moment. “How strange!” he said. I can recall the atmosphere, but
not the detail. It is a moment to me, not a piece of scenery. I should say the
picture was in me, not out there.”

Without troubling to understand—she was inclined to think it verbiage—she made a
small sound of assent. “That is why you want to go again to a place, and I don’t
care so much, because I have it with me,” he concluded. XI

They decided to find their way through the lanes to Alum Bay, and then, keeping
the cross in sight, to return over the downs, with the moon-path broad on the
water before them. For the moon was rising late. Twilight, however, rose more
rapidly than they had anticipated. The lane twisted among meadows and wild lands
and copses—a wilful little lane, quite incomprehensible. So they lost their
distant landmark, the white cross. Darkness filtered through the daylight. When
at last they came to a signpost, it was almost too dark to read it. The fingers
seemed to withdraw into the dusk the more they looked. “We must go to the left,”
said Helena. To the left rose the downs, smooth and grey near at hand, but
higher black with gorse, like a giant lying asleep with a bearskin over his
shoulders. Several pale chalk-tracks ran side by side through the turf.
Climbing, they came to a disused chalk-pit, which they circumvented. Having
passed a lonely farmhouse, they mounted the side of the open down, where was a
sense of space and freedom. “We can steer by the night,” said Siegmund, as they
trod upwards pathlessly. Helena did not mind whither they steered. All places in
that large fair night were home and welcome to her. They drew nearer to the
shaggy cloak of furze. “There will be a path through it,” said Siegmund. But
when they arrived there was no path. They were confronted by a tall,
impenetrable growth of gorse, taller than Siegmund. “Stay here,” said he, “while
I look for a way through. I am afraid you will be tired.”

She stood alone by the walls of gorse. The lights that had flickered into being
during the dusk grew stronger, so that a little farmhouse down the hill glowed
with great importance on the night, while the far-off in visible sea became like
a roadway, large and mysterious, its specks of light moving slowly, and its
bigger lamps stationed out amid the darkness. Helena wanted the day-wanness to
be quite wiped off the west. She asked for the full black night, that would
obliterate everything save Siegmund. Siegmund it was that the whole world meant.
The darkness, the gorse, the downs, the specks of light, seemed only to bespeak
him. She waited for him to come back. She could hardly endure the condition of
intense waiting. He came, in his grey clothes almost invisible. But she felt him
coming. “No good,” he said, “no vestige of a path. Not a rabbit-run.”

“Then we will sit down awhile,” said she calmly. “‘Here on this mole-hill,’” he
quoted mockingly. They sat down in a small gap in the gorse, where the turf was
very soft, and where the darkness seemed deeper. The night was all fragrance,
cool odour of darkness, keen, savoury scent of the downs, touched with
honeysuckle and gorse and bracken scent. Helena turned to him, leaning her hand
on his thigh. “What day is it, Siegmund?” she asked, in a joyous, wondering
tone. He laughed, understanding, and kissed her. “But really,” she insisted, “I
would not have believed the labels could have fallen off everything like this.”

He laughed again. She still leaned towards him, her weight on her hand, stopping
the flow in the artery down his thigh. “The days used to walk in procession like
seven marionettes, each in order and costume, going endlessly round.” She
laughed, amused at the idea. “It is very strange,” she continued, “to have the
days and nights smeared into one piece, as if the clock-hand only went round
once in a lifetime.”

“That is how it is,” he admitted, touched by her eloquence. “You have torn the
labels off things, and they all are so different. This morning! It does seem
absurd to talk about this morning. Why should I be parcelled up into mornings
and evenings and nights? _I_ am not made up of sections of time. Now, nights and
days go racing over us like cloud-shadows and sunshine over the sea, and all the
time we take no notice.”

She put her arms round his neck. He was reminded by a sudden pain in his leg how
much her hand had been pressing on him. He held his breath from pain. She was
kissing him softly over the eyes. They lay cheek to cheek, looking at the stars.
He felt a peculiar tingling sense of joy, a keenness of perception, a fine,
delicate tingling as of music. “You know,” he said, repeating himself, “it is
true. You seem to have knit all things in a piece for me. Things are not
separate; they are all in a symphony. They go moving on and on. You are the
motive in everything.”

Helena lay beside him, half upon him, sad with bliss. “You must write a symphony
of this—of us,” she said, prompted by a disciple’s vanity. “Some time,” he
answered. “Later, when I have time.”

“Later,” she murmured—“later than what?”

“I don’t know,” he replied. “This is so bright we can’t see beyond.” He turned
his face to hers and through the darkness smiled into her eyes that were so
close to his. Then he kissed her long and lovingly. He lay, with her head on his
shoulder looking through her hair at the stars. “I wonder how it is you have
such a fine natural perfume,” he said, always in the same abstract, inquiring
tone of happiness. “Haven’t all women?” she replied, and the peculiar
penetrating twang of a brass reed was again in her voice. “I don’t know,” he
said, quite untouched. “But you are scented like nuts, new kernels of hazel-
nuts, and a touch of opium….” He remained abstractedly breathing her with his
open mouth, quite absorbed in her. “You are so strange,” she murmured tenderly,
hardly able to control her voice to speak. “I believe,” he said slowly, “I can
see the stars moving through your hair. No, keep still, _you_ can’t see them.”
Helena lay obediently very still. “I thought I could watch them travelling,
crawling like gold flies on the ceiling,” he continued in a slow sing-song. “But
now you make your hair tremble, and the stars rush about.” Then, as a new
thought struck him: “Have you noticed that you can’t recognize the
constellations lying back like this. I can’t see one. Where is the north, even?”

She laughed at the idea of his questioning her concerning these things. She
refused to learn the names of the stars or of the constellations, as of the
wayside plants. “Why should I want to label them?” she would say. “I prefer to
look at them, not to hide them under a name.” So she laughed when he asked her
to find Vega or Arcturus. “How full the sky is!” Siegmund dreamed on—“like a
crowded street. Down here it is vastly lonely in comparison. We’ve found a place
far quieter and more private than the stars, Helena. Isn’t it fine to be up
here, with the sky for nearest neighbour?”

“I did well to ask you to come?” she inquired wistfully. He turned to her. “As
wise as God for the minute,” he replied softly. “I think a few furtive angels
brought us here—smuggled us in.”

“And you are glad?” she asked. He laughed. “_Carpe diem_,” he said. “We have
plucked a beauty, my dear. With this rose in my coat I dare go to hell or
anywhere.”

“Why hell, Siegmund?” she asked in displeasure. “I suppose it is the _postero_.
In everything else I’m a failure, Helena. But,” he laughed, “this day of ours is
a rose not many men have plucked.”

She kissed him passionately, beginning to cry in a quick, noiseless fashion.
“What does it matter, Helena?” he murmured. “What does it matter? We are here
yet.”

The quiet tone of Siegmund moved her with a vivid passion of grief. She felt she
should lose him. Clasping him very closely, she burst into uncontrollable
sobbing. He did not understand, but he did not interrupt her. He merely held her
very close, while he looked through her shaking hair at the motionless stars. He
bent his head to hers, he sought her face with his lips, heavy with pity. She
grew a little quieter. He felt his cheek all wet with her tears, and, between
his cheek and hers, the ravelled roughness of her wet hair that chafed and made
his face burn. “What is it, Helena?” he asked at last. “Why should you cry?”

She pressed her face in his breast, and said in a muffled, unrecognizable voice:

“You won’t leave me, will you, Siegmund?”

“How could I? How should I?” he murmured soothingly. She lifted her face
suddenly and pressed on him a fierce kiss. “How could I leave you?” he repeated,
and she heard his voice waking, the grip coming into his arms, and she was glad.
An intense silence came over everything. Helena almost expected to hear the
stars moving, everything below was so still. She had no idea what Siegmund was
thinking. He lay with his arms strong around her. Then she heard the beating of
his heart, like the muffled sound of salutes, she thought. It gave her the same
thrill of dread and excitement, mingled with a sense of triumph. Siegmund had
changed again, his mood was gone, so that he was no longer wandering in a night
of thoughts, but had become different, incomprehensible to her. She had no idea
what she thought or felt. All she knew was that he was strong, and was knocking
urgently with his heart on her breast, like a man who wanted something and who
dreaded to be sent away. How he came to be so concentratedly urgent she could
not understand. It seemed an unreasonable an incomprehensible obsession to her.
Yet she was glad, and she smiled in her heart, feeling triumphant and restored.
Yet again, dimly, she wondered where was the Siegmund of ten minutes ago, and
her heart lifted slightly with yearning, to sink with a dismay. This Siegmund
was so incomprehensible. Then again, when he raised his head and found her
mouth, his lips filled her with a hot flush like wine, a sweet, flaming flush of
her whole body, most exquisite, as if she were nothing but a soft rosy flame of
fire against him for a moment or two. That, she decided, was supreme,
transcendental. The lights of the little farmhouse below had vanished, the
yellow specks of ships were gone. Only the pier-light, far away, shone in the
black sea like the broken piece of a star. Overhead was a silver-greyness of
stars; below was the velvet blackness of the night and the sea. Helena found
herself glimmering with fragments of poetry, as she saw the sea, when she looked
very closely, glimmered dustily with a reflection of stars. Tiefe Stille
herrscht im Wasser Ohne Regung ruht das Meer …

She was fond of what scraps of German verse she knew. With French verse she had
no sympathy; but Goethe and Heine and Uhland seemed to speak her language. Die
Luft ist kühl, und es dunkelt, Und ruhig fliesst der Rhein. She liked Heine best
of all:

Wie Träume der Kindheit seh’ ich es flimmern Auf deinem wogenden Wellengebiet,
Und alte Erinnerung erzählt mir auf’s Neue Von all dem lieben herrlichen
Spielzeug, Von all den blinkenden Weihnachtsgaben…. As she lay in Siegmund’s
arms again, and he was very still, dreaming she knew not what, fragments such as
these flickered and were gone, like the gleam of a falling star over water. The
night moved on imperceptibly across the sky. Unlike the day, it made no sound
and gave no sign, but passed unseen, unfelt, over them. Till the moon was ready
to step forth. Then the eastern sky blenched, and there was a small gathering of
clouds round the opening gates:

Aus alten Märchen winket es Hervor mit weisser Hand, Da singt es und da klingt
es Von einem Zauberland. Helena sang this to herself as the moon lifted herself
slowly among the clouds. She found herself repeating them aloud in in a
forgetful singsong, as children do. “What is it?” said Siegmund. They were both
of them sunk in their own stillness, therefore it was a moment or two before she
repeated her singsong, in a little louder tone. He did not listen to her, having
forgotten that he had asked her a question. “Turn your head,” she told him, when
she had finished the verse, “and look at the moon.”

He pressed back his head, so that there was a gleaming pallor on his chin and
his forehead and deep black shadow over his eyes and his nostrils. This thrilled
Helena with a sense of mystery and magic. “‘_Die grossen Blumen schmachten_,’”
she said to herself, curiously awake and joyous. “The big flowers open with
black petals and silvery ones, Siegmund. You are the big flowers, Siegmund;
yours is the bridegroom face, Siegmund, like a black and glistening flesh-
petalled flower, Siegmund, and it blooms in the _Zauberland_, Siegmund—this is
the magic land.”

Between the phrases of this whispered ecstasy she kissed him swiftly on the
throat, in the shadow, and on his faintly gleaming cheeks. He lay still, his
heart beating heavily; he was almost afraid of the strange ecstasy she
concentrated on him. Meanwhile she whispered over him sharp, breathless phrases
in German and English, touching him with her mouth and her cheeks and her
forehead. “‘_Und Liebesweisen tönen_’-not tonight, Siegmund. They are all still-
gorse and the stars and the sea and the trees, are all kissing, Siegmund. The
sea has its mouth on the earth, and the gorse and the trees press together, and
they all look up at the moon, they put up their faces in a kiss, my darling. But
they haven’t you-and it all centres in you, my dear, all the wonder-love is in
you, more than in them all Siegmund—Siegmund!”

He felt the tears falling on him as he lay with heart beating in slow heavy
drops under the ecstasy of her love. Then she sank down and lay prone on him,
spent, clinging to him, lifted up and down by the beautiful strong motion of his
breathing. Rocked thus on his strength, she swooned lightly into
unconsciousness. When she came to herself she sighed deeply. She woke to the
exquisite heaving of his life beneath her. “I have been beyond life. I have been
a little way into death!” she said to her soul, with wide-eyed delight. She lay
dazed, wondering upon it. That she should come back into a marvellous, peaceful
happiness astonished her. Suddenly she became aware that she must be slowly
weighing down the life of Siegmund. There was a long space between the lift of
one breath and the next. Her heart melted with sorrowful pity. Resting herself
on her hands, she kissed him—a long, anguished kiss, as if she would fuse her
soul into his for ever. Then she rose, sighing, sighing again deeply. She put up
her hands to her head and looked at the moon. “No more,” said her heart, almost
as if it sighed too-“no more!”

She looked down at Siegmund. He was drawing in great heavy breaths. He lay still
on his back, gazing up at her, and she stood motionless at his side, looking
down at him. He felt stunned, half-conscious. Yet as he lay helplessly looking
up at her some other consciousness inside him murmured; “Hawwa—Eve—Mother!” She
stood compassionate over him. Without touching him she seemed to be yearning
over him like a mother. Her compassion, her benignity, seemed so different from
his little Helena. This woman, tall and pale, drooping with the strength of her
compassion, seemed stable, immortal, not a fragile human being, but a
personification of the great motherhood of women. “I am her child, too,” he
dreamed, as a child murmurs unconscious in sleep. He had never felt her eyes so
much as now, in the darkness, when he looked only into deep shadow. She had
never before so entered and gathered his plaintive masculine soul to the bosom
of her nurture. “Come,” she said gently, when she knew he was restored. “Shall
we go?”

He rose, with difficulty gathering his strength. XII

Siegmund made a great effort to keep the control of his body. The hill-side, the
gorse, when he stood up, seemed to have fallen back into shadowed vagueness
about him. They were meaningless dark heaps at some distance, very great, it
seemed. “I can’t get hold of them,” he said distractedly to himself. He felt
detached from the earth, from all the near, concrete, beloved things; as if
these had melted away from him, and left him, sick and unsupported, somewhere
alone on the edge of an enormous space. He wanted to lie down again, to relieve
himself of the sickening effort of supporting and controlling his body. If he
could lie down again perfectly still he need not struggle to animate the
cumbersome matter of his body, and then he would not feel thus sick and outside
himself. But Helena was speaking to him, telling him they would see the moon-
path. They must set off downhill. He felt her arm clasped firmly, joyously,
round his waist. Therein was his stability and warm support. Siegmund felt a
keen flush of pitiful tenderness for her as she walked with buoyant feet beside
him, clasping him so happily, all unconscious. This pity for her drew him nearer
to life. He shuddered lightly now and again, as they stepped lurching down the
hill. He set his jaws hard to suppress this shuddering. It was not in his limbs,
or even on the surface of his body, for Helena did not notice it. Yet he
shuddered almost in anguish internally. “What is it?” he asked himself in
wonder. His thought consisted of these detached phrases, which he spoke verbally
to himself. Between-whiles he was conscious only of an almost insupportable
feeling of sickness, as a man feels who is being brought from under an
anaesthetic; also he was vaguely aware of a teeming stir of activity, such as
one may hear from a closed hive, within him. They swung rapidly downhill.
Siegmund still shuddered, but not so uncontrollably. They came to a stile which
they must climb. As he stepped over it needed a concentrated effort of will to
place his foot securely on the step. The effort was so great that he became
conscious of it. “Good Lord!” he said to himself. “I wonder what it is.”

He tried to examine himself. He thought of all the organs of his body—his brain,
his heart, his liver. There was no pain, and nothing wrong with any of them, he
was sure. His dim searching resolved itself into another detached phrase. “There
is nothing the matter with me,” he said. Then he continued vaguely wondering,
recalling the sensation of wretched sickness which sometimes follows
drunkenness, thinking of the times when he had fallen ill.

“But I am not like that,” he said, “because I don’t feel tremulous. I am sure my
hand is steady.”

Helena stood still to consider the road. He held out his hand before him. It was
motionless as a dead flower on this silent night. “Yes, I think this is the
right way,” said Helena, and they set off again, as if gaily. “It certainly
feels rather deathly,” said Siegmund to himself. He remembered distinctly, when
he was a child and had diphtheria, he had stretched himself in the horrible
sickness, which he felt was—and here he chose the French word—“_l’agonie_”. But
his mother had seen and had cried aloud, which suddenly caused him to struggle
with all his soul to spare her her suffering. “Certainly it is like that,” he
said. “Certainly it is rather deathly. I wonder how it is.”

Then he reviewed the last hour. “I believe we are lost!” Helena interrupted him.
“Lost! What matter!” he answered indifferently, and Helena pressed him tighter,
hearer to her in a kind of triumph. “But did we not come this way?” he added.
“No. See”—her voice was reeded with restrained emotion—“we have certainly not
been along this bare path which dips up and down.”

“Well, then, we must merely keep due eastward, towards the moon pretty well, as
much as we can,” said Siegmund, looking forward over the down, where the moon
was wrestling heroically to win free of the pack of clouds which hung on her
like wolves on a white deer. As he looked at the moon he felt a sense of
companionship. Helena, not understanding, left him so much alone; the moon was
nearer. Siegmund continued to review the last hours. He had been so wondrously
happy. The world had been filled with a new magic, a wonderful, stately beauty
which he had perceived for the first time. For long hours he had been wandering
in another—a glamorous, primordial world. “I suppose,” he said to himself, “I
have lived too intensely, I seem to have had the stars and moon and everything
else for guests, and now they’ve gone my house is weak.”

So he struggled to diagnose his case of splendour and sickness. He reviewed his
hour of passion with Helena. “Surely,” he told himself, “I have drunk life too
hot, and it has hurt my cup. My soul seems to leak out—I am half here, half gone
away. That’s why I understand the trees and the night so painfully.”

Then he came to the hour of Helena’s strange ecstasy over him. That, somehow,
had filled him with passionate grief. It was happiness concentrated one drop too
keen, so that what should have been vivid wine was like a pure poison scathing
him. But his consciousness, which had been unnaturally active, now was dulling.
He felt the blood flowing vigorously along the limbs again, and stilling has
brain, sweeping away his sickness, soothing him. “I suppose,” he said to himself
for the last time, “I suppose living too intensely kills you, more or less.”

Then Siegmund forgot. He opened his eyes and saw the night about him. The moon
had escaped from the cloud-pack, and was radiant behind a fine veil which
glistened to her rays, and which was broidered with a lustrous halo, very large
indeed, the largest halo Siegmund had ever seen. When the little lane turned
full towards the moon, it seemed as if Siegmund and Helena would walk through a
large Moorish arch of horse-shoe shape, the enormous white halo opening in front
of them. They walked on, keeping their faces to the moon, smiling with wonder
and a little rapture, until once mote the little lane curved wilfully, and they
were walking north. Helena observed three cottages crouching under the hill and
under trees to cover themselves from the magic of the moonlight. “We certainly
did not come this way before,” she said triumphantly. The idea of being lost
delighted her. Siegmund looked round at the grey hills smeared over with a low,
dim glisten of moon-mist. He could not yet fully realize that he was walking
along a lane in the Isle of Wight. His surroundings seemed to belong to some
state beyond ordinary experience—some place in romance, perhaps, or among the
hills where Brünhild lay sleeping in her large bright halo of fire. How could it
be that he and Helena were two children of London wandering to find their
lodging in Freshwater? He sighed, and looked again over the hills where the
moonlight was condensing in mist ethereal, frail, and yet substantial, reminding
him of the way the manna must have condensed out of the white moonlit mists of
Arabian deserts. “We may be on the road to Newport,” said Helena presently, “and
the distance is ten miles.”

She laughed, not caring in the least whither they wandered, exulting in this
wonderful excursion! She and Siegmund alone in a glistening wilderness of night
at the back of habited days and nights! Siegmund looked at her. He by no means
shared her exultation, though he sympathized with it. He walked on alone in his
deep seriousness, of which she was not aware. Yet when he noticed her abandon,
he drew her nearer, and his heart softened with protecting tenderness towards
her, and grew heavy with responsibility. The fields breathed off a scent as if
they were come to life with the night, and were talking with fragrant eagerness.
The farms huddled together in sleep, and pulled the dark shadow over them to
hide from the supernatural white night; the cottages were locked and darkened.
Helena walked on in triumph through this wondrous hinterland of night, actively
searching for the spirits, watching the cottages they approached, listening,
looking for the dreams of those sleeping inside, in the darkened rooms. She
imagined she could see the frail dream-faces at the windows; she fancied they
stole out timidly into the gardens, and went running away among the rabbits on
the gleamy hill-side. Helena laughed to herself, pleased with her fancy of
wayward little dreams playing with weak hands and feet among the large, solemn-
sleeping cattle. This was the first time, she told herself, that she had ever
been out among the grey-frocked dreams and white-armed fairies. She imagined
herself lying asleep in her room, while her own dreams slid out down the
moonbeams. She imagined Siegmund sleeping in his room, while his dreams, dark-
eyed, their blue eyes very dark and yearning at night-time, came wandering over
the grey grass seeking her dreams. So she wove her fancies as she walked, until
for very weariness she was fain to remember that it was a long way—a long way.
Siegmund’s arm was about her to support her; she rested herself upon it. They
crossed a stile and recognized, on the right of the path, the graveyard of the
Catholic chapel. The moon, which the days were paring smaller with envious keen
knife, shone upon the white stones in the burial-ground. The carved Christ upon
His cross hung against a silver-grey sky. Helena looked up wearily, bowing to
the tragedy. Siegmund also looked, and bowed his head. “Thirty years of earnest
love; three years’ life like a passionate ecstasy-and it was finished. He was
very great and very wonderful. I am very insignificant, and shall go out
ignobly. But we are the same; love, the brief ecstasy, and the end. But mine is
one rose, and His all the white beauty in the world.”

Siegmund felt his heart very heavy, sad, and at fault, in presence of the
Christ. Yet he derived comfort from the knowledge that life was treating him in
the same manner as it had treated the Master, though his compared small and
despicable with the Christ-tragedy. Siegmund stepped softly into the shadow of
the pine copse. “Let me get under cover,” he thought. “Let me hide in it; it is
good, the sudden intense darkness. I am small and futile: my small, futile
tragedy!”

Helena shrank in the darkness. It was almost terrible to her, and the silence
was like a deep pit. She shrank to Siegmund. He drew her closer, leaning over
her as they walked, trying to assure her. His heart was heavy, and heavy with a
tenderness approaching grief, for his small, brave Helena. “Are you sure this is
the right way?” he whispered to her. “Quite, quite sure,” she whispered
confidently in reply. And presently they came out into the hazy moonlight, and
began stumbling down the steep hill. They were both very tired, both found it
difficult to go with ease or surety this sudden way down. Soon they were
creeping cautiously across the pasture and the poultry farm. Helena’s heart was
beating, as she imagined what a merry noise there would be should they wake all
the fowls. She dreaded any commotion, any questioning, this night, so she stole
carefully along till they issued on the high-road not far from home. XIII

In the morning, after bathing, Siegmund leaned upon the seawall in a kind of
reverie. It was late, towards nine o’clock, yet he lounged, dreamily looking out
on the turquoise blue water, and the white haze of morning, and the small, fair
shadows of ships slowly realizing before him. In the bay were two battleships,
uncouth monsters, lying as naïve and curious as sea-lions strayed afar. Siegmund
was gazing oversea in a half-stupid way, when he heard a voice beside him say:

“Where have they come from; do you know, sir?”

He turned, saw a fair, slender man of some thirty-five years standing beside him
and smiling faintly at the battleships. “The men-of-war? There are a good many
at Spithead,” said Siegmund. The other glanced negligently into his face. “They
look rather incongruous, don’t you think? We left the sea empty and shining, and
when we come again, behold, these objects keeping their eye on us!”

Siegmund laughed. “You are not an Anarchist, I hope?” he said jestingly. “A
Nihilist, perhaps,” laughed the other. “But I am quite fond of the Czar, if pity
is akin to love. No; but you can’t turn round without finding some policeman or
other at your elbow—look at them, abominable ironmongery!—ready to put his hand
on your shoulder.”

The speaker’s grey-blue eyes, always laughing with mockery, glanced from the
battleships and lit on the dark blue eyes of Siegmund. The latter felt his heart
lift in a convulsive movement. This stranger ran so quickly to a perturbing
intimacy. “I suppose we are in the hands of—God,” something moved Siegmund to
say. The stranger contracted his eyes slightly as he gazed deep at the speaker.
“Ah!” he drawled curiously. Then his eyes wandered over the wet hair, the white
brow, and the bare throat of Siegmund, after which they returned again to the
eyes of his interlocutor. “Does the Czar sail this way?” he asked at last. “I do
not know,” replied Siegmund, who, troubled by the other’s penetrating gaze, had
not expected so trivial a question. “I suppose the newspaper will tell us?” said
the man. Sure to,” said Siegmund. “You haven’t seen it this morning?”

“Not since Saturday.”

The swift blue eyes of the man dilated. He looked curiously at Siegmund. “You
are not alone on your holiday?”

“No.” Siegmund did not like this—he gazed over the sea in displeasure. “I live
here—at least for the present—name, Hampson—”

“Why, weren’t you one of the first violins at the Savoy fifteen years back?”
asked Siegmund. They chatted awhile about music. They had known each other, had
been fairly intimate, and had since become strangers. Hampson excused himself
for having addressed Siegmund:

“I saw you with your nose flattened against the window,” he said, “and as I had
mine in the same position too, I thought we were fit to be re-acquainted.”

Siegmund looked at the man in astonishment. “I only mean you were staring rather
hard at nothing. It’s a pity to try and stare out of a beautiful blue day like
this, don’t you think?”

“Stare beyond it, you mean?” asked Siegmund. “Exactly!” replied the other, with
a laugh of intelligence. “I call a day like this ‘the blue room’. It’s the least
draughty apartment in all the confoundedly draughty House of Life.”

Siegmund looked at him very intently. This Hampson seemed to express something
in his own soul. “I mean,” the man explained, “that after all, the great mass of
life that washes unidentified, and that we call death, creeps through the blue
envelope of the day, and through our white tissue, and we can’t stop it, once
we’ve begun to leak.”

“What do you mean by ‘leak’?” asked Siegmund. “Goodness knows—I talk through my
hat. But once you’ve got a bit tired of the house, you glue your nose to the
windowpane, and stare for the dark—as you were doing.”

“But, to use your metaphor, I’m not tired of the House—if you mean Life,” said
Siegmund. “Praise God! I’ve met a poet who’s not afraid of having his pocket
picked—or his soul, or his brain!” said the stranger, throwing his head back in
a brilliant smile, his eyes dilated. “I don’t know what you mean, sir,” said
Siegmund, very quietly, with a strong fear and a fascination opposing each other
in his heart. “You’re not tired of the House, but of your own particular room-
say, suite of rooms—”

“Tomorrow I am turned out of this ‘blue room’,” said Siegmund with a wry smile.
The other looked at him seriously. “Dear Lord!” exclaimed Hampson; then: “Do you
remember Flaubert’s saint, who laid naked against a leper? I could _not_ do it.”

“Nor I,” shuddered Siegmund. “But you’ve got to-or something near it!”

Siegmund looked at the other with frightened, horrified eyes. “What of
yourself?” he said, resentfully. “I’ve funked-ran away from my leper, and now am
eating my heart out, and staring from the window at the dark.”

“But can’t you _do_ something?” said Siegmund. The other man laughed with
amusement, throwing his head back and showing his teeth. “I won’t ask you what
_your_ intentions are,” he said, with delicate irony in his tone. “You know, I
am a tremendously busy man. I earn five hundred a year by hard work; but it’s no
good. If you have acquired a liking for intensity in life, you can’t do without
it. I mean vivid soul experience. It takes the place, with us, of the old
adventure, and physical excitement.”

Siegmund looked at the other man with baffled, anxious eyes. “Well, and what
then?” he said. “What then? A craving for intense life is nearly as deadly as
any other craving. You become a _concentré_, you feed your normal flame with
oxygen, and it devours your tissue. The soulful ladies of romance are always
semi-transparent.”

Siegmund laughed. “At least, I am quite opaque,” he said. The other glanced over
his easy, mature figure and strong throat. “Not altogether,” said Hampson. “And
you, I should think, are one whose flame goes nearly out, when the stimulant is
lacking.”

Siegmund glanced again at him, startled. “You haven’t much reserve. You’re like
a tree that’ll flower till it kills itself,” the man continued. “You’ll run till
you drop, and then you won’t get up again. You’ve no dispassionate intellect to
control you and economize.”

“You’re telling me very plainly what I am and am not,” said Siegmund, laughing
rather sarcastically. He did not like it. “Oh, it’s only what I think,” replied
Hampson. “We’re a good deal alike, you see, and have gone the same way. You
married and I didn’t; but women have always done as they liked with me.”

“That’s hardly so in my case,” said Siegmund. Hampson eyed him critically. “Say
one woman; it’s enough,” he replied. Siegmund gazed, musing, over the sea. “The
best sort of women—the most interesting—are the worst for us,” Hampson resumed.
“By instinct they aim at suppressing the gross and animal in us. Then they are
supersensitive—refined a bit beyond humanity. We, who are as little gross as
need be, become their instruments. Life is grounded in them, like electricity in
the earth; and we take from them their unrealized life, turn it into light or
warmth or power for them. The ordinary woman is, alone, a great potential force,
an accumulator, if you like, charged from the source of life. In us her force
becomes evident. “She can’t live without us, but she destroys us. These deep,
interesting women don’t want _us_; they want the flowers of the spirit they can
gather of us. We, as natural men, are more or less degrading to them and to
their love of us; therefore they destroy the natural man in us—that is, us
altogether.”

“You’re a bit downright are you not?” asked Siegmund, deprecatingly. He did not
disagree with what his friend said, nor tell him such statements were arbitrary.
“That’s according to my intensity,” laughed Hampson. “I can open the blue heaven
with looking, and push back the doors of day a little, and see—God knows what!
One of these days I shall slip through. Oh, I am perfectly sane; I only strive
beyond myself!”

“Don’t you think it’s wrong to get like it?” asked Siegmund. “Well, I do, and so
does everybody; but the crowd profits by us in the end. When they understand my
music, it will be an education to them; and the whole aim of mankind is to
render life intelligible.”

Siegmund pondered a little…. “You make me feel—as if I were loose, and a long
way off from myself,” he said slowly. The young man smiled, then looked down at
the wall, where his own hands lay white and fragile, showing the blue veins. “I
can scarcely believe they are me,” he said. “If they rose up and refused me, I
should not be surprised. But aren’t they beautiful?”

He looked, with a faint smile, at Siegmund. Siegmund glanced from the stranger’s
to his own hands, which lay curved on the sea-wall as if asleep. They were small
for a man of his stature, but, lying warm in the sun, they looked particularly
secure in life. Instinctively, with a wave of self-love, he closed his fists
over his thumbs. “I wonder,” said Hampson softly, with strange bitterness, “that
she can’t see it; I wonder she doesn’t cherish you. You are full and beautiful
enough in the flesh—why will she help to destroy you, when she loved you to such
extremity?”

Siegmund looked at him with awe-stricken eyes. The frail, swift man, with his
intensely living eyes, laughed suddenly. “Fools—the fools, these women!” he
said. “Either they smash their own crystal, or it revolts, turns opaque, and
leaps out of their hands. Look at me, I am whittled down to the quick; but your
neck is thick with compressed life; it is a stem so tense with life that it will
hold up by itself. I am very sorry.”

All at once he stopped. The bitter despair in his tone was the voice of a heavy
feeling of which Siegmund had been vaguely aware for some weeks. Siegmund felt a
sense of doom. He laughed, trying to shake it off. “I wish I didn’t go on like
this,” said Hampson piteously. “I wish I could be normal. How hot it is already!
You should wear a hat. It is really hot.” He pulled open his flannel shirt. “I
like the heat,” said Siegmund. “So do I.”

Directly, the young man dashed the long hair on his forehead into some sort of
order, bowed, and smiling in his gay fashion, walked leisurely to the village.
Siegmund stood awhile as if stunned. It seemed to him only a painful dream.
Sighing deeply to relieve himself of the pain, he set off to find Helena. XIV

In the garden of tall rose trees and nasturtiums Helena was again waiting. It
was past nine o’clock, so she was growing impatient. To herself, however, she
professed a great interest in a little book of verses she had bought in St
Martin’s Lane for twopence. A late, harsh blackbird smote him with her wings, As
through the glade, dim in the dark, she flew…. So she read. She made a curious,
pleased sound, and remarked to herself that she thought these verses very fine.
But she watched the road for Siegmund. And now she takes the scissors on her
thumb … Oh then, no more unto my lattice come. “H’m!” she said, “I really don’t
know whether I like that or not.”

Therefore she read the piece again before she looked down the road. “He really
is very late. It is absurd to think he may have got drowned; but if he were
washing about at the bottom of the sea, his hair loose on the water!”

Her heart stood still as she imagined this. “But what nonsense! I like these
verses _very_ much. I will read them as I walk along the side path, where I
shall hear the bees, and catch the flutter of a butterfly among the words. That
will be a very fitting way to read this poet.”

So she strolled to the gate, glancing up now and again. There, sure enough, was
Siegmund coming, the towel hanging over his shoulder, his throat bare, and his
face bright. She stood in the mottled shade. “I have kept you waiting,” said
Siegmund. “Well, I was reading, you see.”

She would not admit her impatience. “I have been talking,” he said. “Talking!”
she exclaimed in slight displeasure. “Have you found an acquaintance even here?”

“A fellow who was quite close friends in Savoy days; he made me feel queer-sort
of _Doppelgänger_, he was.”

Helena glanced up swiftly and curiously. “In what way?” she said. “He talked all
the skeletons in the cupboard-such piffle it seems, now! The sea is like a
harebell, and there are two battleships lying in the bay. You can hear the
voices of the men on deck distinctly. Well, have you made the plans for today?”

They went into the house to breakfast. She watched him helping himself to the
scarlet and green salad. “Mrs Curtiss,” she said, in rather reedy tone, “has
been very motherly to me this morning; oh, very motherly!”

Siegmund, who was in a warm, gay mood, shrank up. “What, has she been saying
something about last night?” he asked. “She was very much concerned for me-was
afraid something dreadful had happened,” continued Helena, in the same keen,
sarcastic tone, which showed she was trying to rid herself of her own
mortification. “Because we weren’t in till about eleven?” said Siegmund, also
with sarcasm. “I mustn’t do it again. Oh no, I mustn’t do it again, really.”

“For fear of alarming the old lady?” he asked. “‘You know, dear, it troubles
_me_ a good deal … but if I were your _mother_, I don’t know _how_ I should
feel,’” she quoted. “When one engages rooms one doesn’t usually stipulate for a
stepmother to nourish one’s conscience,” said Siegmund. They laughed, making
jest of the affair; but they were both too thin-skinned. Siegmund writhed within
himself with mortification, while Helena talked as if her teeth were on edge. “I
don’t _mind_ in the least,” she said. “The poor old woman has her opinions, and
I mine.”

Siegmund brooded a little. “I know I’m a moral coward,” he said bitterly.
“Nonsense” she replied. Then, with a little heat: “But you _do_ continue to try
so hard to justify yourself, as if _you_ felt you needed justification.”

He laughed bitterly. “I tell you—a little thing like this—it remains tied tight
round something inside me, reminding me for hours—well, what everybody else’s
opinion of me is.”

Helena laughed rather plaintively. “I thought you were so sure we were right,”
she said. He winced again. “In myself I am. But in the eyes of the world—”

“If you feel so in yourself, is not that enough?” she said brutally. He hung his
head, and slowly turned his serviette-ring. “What is myself?” he asked. “Nothing
very definite,” she said, with a bitter laugh. They were silent. After a while
she rose, went lovingly over to him, and put her arms round his neck. “This is
our last clear day, dear,” she said. A wave of love came over him, sweeping away
all the rest. He took her in his arms…. “It will be hot today,” said Helena, as
they prepared to go out. “I felt the sun steaming in my hair as I came up,” he
replied. “I shall wear a hat—you had better do so too.”

“No,” he said. “I told you I wanted a sun-soaking; now I think I shall get one.”

She did not urge or compel him. In these matters he was old enough to choose for
himself. This morning they were rather silent. Each felt the tarnish on their
remaining day. “I think, dear,” she said, “we ought to find the little path that
escaped us last night.”

“We were lucky to miss it,” he answered. “You don’t get a walk like that twice
in a lifetime, in spite of the old ladies.”

She glanced up at him with a winsome smile, glad to hear his words. They set
off, Siegmund bare-headed. He was dressed in flannels and a loose canvas shirt,
but he looked what he was—a Londoner on holiday. He had the appearance, the
diffident bearing, and the well-cut clothes of a gentleman. He had a slight
stoop, a strong-shouldered stoop, and as he walked he looked unseeing in front
of him. Helena belonged to the unclassed. She was not ladylike, nor smart, nor
assertive. One could not tell whether she were of independent means or a worker.
One thing was obvious about her: she was evidently educated. Rather short, of
strong figure, she was much more noticeably a _concentrée_ than was Siegmund.
Unless definitely looking at something she always seemed coiled within herself.
She wore a white voile dress made with the waist just below her breasts, and the
skirt dropping straight and clinging. On her head was a large, simple hat of
burnt straw. Through the open-worked sleeves of her dress she could feel the sun
bite vigorously. “I wish you had put on a hat, Siegmund,” she said. “Why?” he
laughed. “My hair is like a hood,” He ruffled it back with his hand. The
sunlight glistened on his forehead. On the higher paths a fresh breeze was
energetically chasing the butterflies and driving the few small clouds
disconsolate out of the sky. The lovers stood for some time watching the people
of the farm in the down below dip their sheep on this sunny morning. There was a
ragged noise of bleating from the flock penned in a corner of the yard. Two red-
armed men seized a sheep, hauled it to a large bath that stood in the middle of
the yard, and there held it, more or less in the bath, whilst a third man baled
a dirty yellow liquid over its body. The white legs of the sheep twinkled as it
butted this way and that to escape the yellow douche, the blue-shirted men
ducked and struggled. There was a faint splashing and shouting to be heard even
from a distance. The farmer’s wife and children stood by ready to rush in with
assistance if necessary. Helena laughed with pleasure. “That is really a very
quaint and primitive proceeding,” she said. “It is cruder than Theocritus.”

“In an instant it makes me wish I were a farmer,” he laughed. “I think every man
has a passion for farming at the bottom of his blood. It would be fine to be
plain-minded, to see no farther than the end of one’s nose, and to own cattle
and land.”

“Would it?” asked Helena sceptically. “If I had a red face, and went to sleep as
soon as I sat comfortable, I should love it,”he said. “It amuses me to hear you
long to be stupid,” she replied. “To have a simple, slow-moving mind and an
active life is the desideratum.”

“Is it?” she asked ironically. “I would give anything to be like that,” he said.
“That is, not to be yourself,” she said pointedly. He laughed without much
heartiness. “Don’t they seem a long way off?” he said, staring at the bucolic
scene. “They are farther than Theocritus—down there is farther than Sicily, and
more than twenty centuries from us. I wish it weren’t.”

“Why do you?” she cried, with curious impatience. He laughed. Crossing the down,
scattered with dark bushes, they came directly opposite the path through the
furze. “There it is!” she cried, “How could we miss it?”

“Ascribe it to the fairies,” he replied, whistling the bird music out of
_Siegfried_, then pieces of _Tristan_. They talked very little. She was tired.
When they arrived at a green, naked hollow near the cliff’s edge, she said:

“This shall be our house today.”

“Welcome home!” said Siegmund. He flung himself down on the high, breezy slope
of the dip, looking out to sea. Helena sat beside him. It was absolutely still,
and the wind was slackening more and more. Though they listened attentively,
they could hear only an indistinct breathing sound, quite small, from the water
below: no clapping nor hoarse conversation of waves. Siegmund lay with his hands
beneath his head, looking over the sparkling sea. To put her page in the shadow,
Helena propped her book against him and began to read. Presently the breeze, and
Siegmund, dropped asleep. The sun was pouring with dreadful persistence. It beat
and beat on Helena, gradually drawing her from her book in a confusion of
thought. She closed her eyes wearily, longing for shade. Vaguely she felt a
sympathy with Adam in “Adam Cast Forth”. Her mind traced again the tumultuous,
obscure strugglings of the two, forth from Eden through the primitive
wildernesses, and she felt sorrowful. Thinking of Adam blackened with struggle,
she looked down at Siegmund. The sun was beating him upon the face and upon his
glistening brow. His two hands, which lay out on the grass, were full of blood,
the veins of his wrists purple and swollen with heat. Yet he slept on, breathing
with a slight, panting motion. Helena felt deeply moved. She wanted to kiss him
as he lay helpless, abandoned to the charge of the earth and the sky. She wanted
to kiss him, and shed a few tears. She did neither, but instead, moved her
position so that she shaded his head. Cautiously putting her hand on his hair,
she found it warm, quite hot, as when you put your hand under a sitting hen, and
feel the hot-feathered bosom. “It will make him ill,” she whispered to herself,
and she bent over to smell the hot hair. She noticed where the sun was scalding
his forehead. She felt very pitiful and helpless when she saw his brow becoming
inflamed with the sun-scalding. Turning weariedly away, she sought relief in the
landscape. But the sea was glittering unbearably, like a scaled dragon
wreathing. The houses of Freshwater slept, as cattle sleep motionless in the
hollow valley. Green Farringford on the slope, was drawn over with a shadow of
heat and sleep. In the bay below the hill the sea was hot and restless. Helena
was sick with sunshine and the restless glitter of water. “‘And there shall be
no more sea,’” she quoted to herself, she knew not wherefrom. “No more sea, no
more anything,” she thought dazedly, as she sat in the midst of this fierce
welter of sunshine. It seemed to her as if all the lightness of her fancy and
her hope were being burned away in this tremendous furnace, leaving her, Helena,
like a heavy piece of slag seamed with metal. She tried to imagine herself
resuming the old activities, the old manner of living. “It is impossible,” she
said; “it is impossible! What shall I be when I come out of this? I shall not
come out, except as metal to be cast in another shape. No more the same
Siegmund, no more the same life. What will become of us—what will happen?”

She was roused from these semi-delirious speculations in the sun furnace by
Siegmund’s waking. He opened his eyes, took a deep breath, and looked smiling at
Helena. “It is worth while to sleep,” said he, “for the sake of waking like
this. I was dreaming of huge ice-crystals.”

She smiled at him. He seemed unconscious of fate, happy and strong. She smiled
upon him almost in condescension. “I should like to realize your dream,” she
said. “This is terrible!”

They went to the cliff’s edge, to receive the cool up-flow of air from the
water. She drank the travelling freshness eagerly with her face, and put forward
her sunburnt arms to be refreshed. “It is really a very fine sun,” said Siegmund
lightly. “I feel as if I were almost satisfied with heat.”

Helena felt the chagrin of one whose wretchedness must go unperceived, while she
affects a light interest in another’s pleasure. This time, when Siegmund “failed
to follow her”, as she put it, she felt she must follow him. “You are having
your satisfaction complete this journey,” she said, smiling; “even a sufficiency
of me.”

“Ay!” said Siegmund drowsily. “I think I am. I think this is about perfect,
don’t you?”

She laughed. “I want nothing more and nothing different,” he continued; “and
that’s the extreme of a decent time, I should think.”

“The extreme of a decent time!” she repeated. But he drawled on lazily:

“I’ve only rubbed my bread on the cheese-board until now. Now I’ve got all the
cheese—which is you, my dear.”

“I certainly feel eaten up,” she laughed, rather bitterly. She saw him lying in
a royal ease, his eyes naïve as a boy’s, his whole being careless. Although very
glad to see him thus happy, for herself she felt very lonely. Being listless
with sun-weariness, and heavy with a sense of impending fate, she felt a great
yearning for his sympathy, his fellow-suffering. Instead of receiving this, she
had to play to his buoyant happiness, so as not to shrivel one petal of his
flower, or spoil one minute of his consummate hour. From the high point of the
cliff where they stood, they could see the path winding down to the beach, and
broadening upwards towards them. Slowly approaching up the slight incline came a
black invalid’s chair, wheeling silently over the short dry grass. The invalid,
a young man, was so much deformed that already his soul seemed to be wilting in
his pale sharp face, as if there were not enough life-flow in the distorted body
to develop the fair bud of the spirit. He turned his pain-sunken eyes towards
the sea, whose meaning, like that of all things, was half obscure to him.
Siegmund glanced, and glanced quickly away, before he should see. Helena looked
intently for two seconds. She thought of the torn, shrivelled seaweed flung
above the reach of the tide—“the life tide,” she said to herself. The pain of
the invalid overshadowed her own distress. She was fretted to her soul. “Come!”
she said quietly to Siegmund, no longer resenting the completeness of his
happiness, which left her unnecessary to him. “We will leave the poor invalid in
possession of our green hollow—so quiet,” she said to herself. They sauntered
downwards towards the bay. Helena was brooding on her own state, after her own
fashion. “The Mist Spirit,” she said to herself. “The Mist Spirit draws a
curtain round us—it is very kind. A heavy gold curtain sometimes; a thin, torn
curtain sometimes. I want the Mist Spirit to close the curtain again, I do not
want to think of the outside. I am afraid of the outside, and I am afraid when
the curtain tears open in rags. I want to be in our own fine world inside the
heavy gold mist-curtain.”

As if in answer or in protest to her thoughts, Siegmund said:

“Do you want anything better than this, dear? Shall we come here next year, and
stay for a whole month?”

“If there be any next year,” said she. Siegmund did not reply. She wondered if
he had really spoken in sincerity, or if he, too, were mocking fate. They walked
slowly through the broiling sun towards their lodging. “There will be an end to
this,” said Helena, communing with herself. “And when we come out of the mist-
curtain, what will it be? No matter—let come what will. All along Fate has been
resolving, from the very beginning, resolving obvious discords, gradually, by
unfamiliar progression; and out of original combinations weaving wondrous
harmonies with our lives. Really, the working out has been wondrous, is wondrous
now. The Master-Fate is too great an artist to suffer an anti-climax. I am sure
the Master-Musician is too great an artist to allow a bathetic anti-climax.”

XV

The afternoon of the blazing day passed drowsily. Lying close together on the
beach, Siegmund and Helena let the day exhale its hours like perfume,
unperceived. Siegmund slept, a light evanescent sleep irised with dreams and
with suffering: nothing definite, the colour of dreams without shape. Helena, as
usual, retained her consciousness much more clearly. She watched the far-off
floating of ships, and the near wading of children through the surf. Endless
trains of thoughts, like little waves, rippled forward and broke on the shore of
her drowsiness. But each thought-ripple, though it ran lightly, was tinged with
copper-coloured gleams as from a lurid sunset. Helena felt that the sun was
setting on her and Siegmund. The hour was too composed, spell-bound, for grief
or anxiety or even for close perception. She was merely aware that the sun was
wheeling down, tangling Siegmund and her in the traces, like overthrown
charioteers. So the hours passed. After tea they went eastwards on the downs.
Siegmund was animated, so that Helena caught his mood. It was very rare that
they spoke of the time preceding their acquaintance, Helena knew little or
nothing of Siegmund’s life up to the age of thirty, whilst he had never learned
anything concerning her childhood. Somehow she did not encourage him to self-
discovery. Today, however, the painful need of lovers for self-revelation took
hold on him. “It is awfully funny,” he said. “I was _so_ gone on Beatrice when I
married her. She had only just come back from Egypt. Her father was an army
officer, a very handsome man, and, I believe, a bit of a rake. Beatrice is
really well connected, you know. But old FitzHerbert ran through all his money,
and through everything else. He was too hot for the rest of the family, so they
dropped him altogether. “He came to live at Peckham when I was sixteen. I had
just left school, and was to go into father’s business. Mrs FitzHerbert left
cards, and very soon we were acquainted. Beatrice had been a good time in a
French convent school. She had only knocked about with the army a little while,
but it had brought her out. I remember I thought she was miles above me—which
she was. She wasn’t bad-looking, either, and you know men all like her. I bet
she’d marry again, in spite of the children. “At first I fluttered round her. I
remember I’d got a little, silky moustache. They all said I looked older than
sixteen. At that time I was mad on the violin, and she played rather well. Then
FitzHerbert went off abroad somewhere, so Beatrice and her mother half lived at
our house. The mother was an invalid. “I remember I nearly stood on my head one
day. The conservatory opened off the smoking-room, so when I came in the room, I
heard my two sisters and Beatrice talking about good-looking men. “‘I consider
Bertram will make a handsome man,’ said my younger sister. “‘He’s got beautiful
eyes,’ said my other sister. “‘And a real darling nose and chin!’ cried
Beatrice. ‘If only he was more _solide_! He is like a windmill, all limbs.’

“‘He will fill out. Remember, he’s not quite seventeen,’ said my elder sister.
“‘Ah, he is _doux_—he is _câlin_,’ said Beatrice. “‘I think he is rather _too_
spoony for his age,’ said my elder sister. “‘But he’s a fine boy for all that.
See how thick his knees are,’ my younger sister chimed in. “‘Ah, _si, si_!’
cried Beatrice. “I made a row against the door, then walked across. “‘Hello, is
somebody in here?’ I said, as I pushed into the little conservatory. “I looked
straight at Beatrice, and she at me. We seemed to have formed an alliance in
that look: she was the other half of my consciousness, I of hers. Ha! Ha! there
were a lot of white narcissus, and little white hyacinths, Roman hyacinths, in
the conservatory. I can see them now, great white stars, and tangles of little
ones, among a bank of green; and I can recall the keen, fresh scent on the warm
air; and the look of Beatrice … her great dark eyes. “It’s funny, but Beatrice
is as dead—ay, far more dead—than Dante’s. And I am not that young fool, not a
bit. “I was very romantic, fearfully emotional, and the soul of honour. Beatrice
said nobody cared a thing about her. FitzHerbert was always jaunting off, the
mother was a fretful invalid. So I was seventeen, earning half a guinea a week,
and she was eighteen, with no money, when we ran away to Brighton and got
married. Poor old Pater, he took it awfully well, I have been a frightful drag
on him, you know. “There’s the romance. I wonder how it will all end.”

Helena laughed, and he did not detect her extreme bitterness of spirit. They
walked on in silence for some time. He was thinking back, before Helena’s day.
This left her very much alone, and forced on her the idea that, after all, love,
which she chose to consider as single and wonderful a thing in a man’s life as
birth, or adolescence, or death, was temporary, and formed only an episode. It
was her hour of disillusion. “Come to think of it,” Siegmund continued, “I have
always shirked. Whenever I’ve been in a tight corner I’ve gone to Pater.”

“I think,” she said, “marriage has been a tight corner you couldn’t get out of
to go to anybody.”

“Yet I’m here,” he answered simply. The blood suffused her face and neck. “And
some men would have made a better job of it. When it’s come to sticking out
against Beatrice, and sailing the domestic ship in spite of her, I’ve always
funked. I tell you I’m something of a moral coward.”

He had her so much on edge she was inclined to answer, “So be it.” Instead, she
ran back over her own history: it consisted of petty discords in contemptible
surroundings, then of her dreams and fancies, finally—Siegmund. “In my life,”
she said, with the fine, grating discord in her tones, “I might say _always_,
the real life has seemed just outside—brownies running and fairies peeping—just
beyond the common, ugly place where I am. I seem to have been hedged in by
vulgar circumstances, able to glimpse outside now and then, and see the
reality.”

“You are so hard to get at,” said Siegmund. “And so scornful of familiar
things.”

She smiled, knowing he did not understand. The heat had jaded her, so that
physically she was full of discord, of dreariness that set her teeth on edge.
Body and soul, she was out of tune. A warm, noiseless twilight was gathering
over the downs and rising darkly from the sea. Fate, with wide wings, was
hovering just over her. Fate, ashen grey and black, like a carrion crow, had her
in its shadow. Yet Siegmund took no notice. He did not understand. He walked
beside her whistling to himself, which only distressed her the more. They were
alone on the smooth hills to the east. Helena looked at the day melting out of
the sky, leaving the permanent structure of the night. It was her turn to suffer
the sickening detachment which comes after moments of intense living. The
rosiness died out of the sunset as embers fade into thick ash. In herself, too,
the ruddy glow sank and went out. The earth was a cold dead heap, coloured
drearily, the sky was dark with flocculent grey ash, and she herself an upright
mass of soft ash. She shuddered slightly with horror. The whole face of things
was to her livid and ghastly. Being a moralist rather than an artist, coming of
fervent Wesleyan stock, she began to scourge herself. She had done wrong again.
Looking back, no one had she touched without hurting. She had a destructive
force; anyone she embraced she injured. Faint voices echoed back from her
conscience. The shadows were full of complaint against her. It was all true, she
was a harmful force, dragging Fate to petty, mean conclusions. Life and hope
were ash in her mouth. She shuddered with discord. Despair grated between her
teeth. This dreariness was worse than any her dreary, lonely life had known. She
felt she could bear it no longer. Siegmund was there. Surely he could help? He
would rekindle her. But he was straying ahead, carelessly whistling the Spring
Song from _Die Walküre_. She looked at him, and again shuddered with horror. Was
that really Siegmund, that stooping, thick-shouldered, indifferent man? Was that
the Siegmund who had seemed to radiate joy into his surroundings, the Siegmund
whose coming had always changed the whole weather of her soul? Was that the
Siegmund whose touch was keen with bliss for her, whose face was a panorama of
passing God? She looked at him again. His radiance was gone, his aura had
ceased. She saw him a stooping man, past the buoyancy of youth, walking and
whistling rather stupidly—in short, something of the “clothed animal on end”,
like the rest of men. She suffered an agony of disillusion. Was this the real
Siegmund, and her own only a projection of her soul? She took her breath
sharply. Was he the real clay, and that other, her beloved, only the breathing
of her soul upon this. There was an awful blank before her. “Siegmund!” she said
in despair. He turned sharply at the sound of her voice. Seeing her face pale
and distorted in the twilight, he was filled with dismay. She mutely lifted her
arms to him, watching him in despair. Swiftly he took her in his arms, and asked
in a troubled voice:

“What is it, dear? Is something wrong?”

His voice was nothing to her—it was stupid. She felt his arms round her, felt
her face pressed against the cloth of his coat, against the beating of his
heart. What was all this? This was not comfort or love. He was not understanding
or helping, only chaining her, hurting. She did not want his brute embrace—she
was most utterly alone, gripped so in his arms. If he could not save her from
herself, he must leave her free to pant her heart out in free air. The secret
thud, thud of his heart, the very self of that animal in him she feared and
hated, repulsed her. She struggled to escape. “What is it? Won’t you tell me
what is the matter?” he pleaded. She began to sob, dry wild sobs, feeling as if
she would go mad. He tried to look at her face, for which she hated him. And all
the time he held her fast, all the time she was imprisoned in the embrace of
this brute, blind creature, whose heart confessed itself in thud, thud, thud.
“Have you heard anything against us? Have I done anything? Have I said anything?
Tell me—at any rate tell me, Helena.”

Her sobbing was like the chattering of dry leaves. She grew frantic to be free.
Stifled in that prison any longer, she would choke and go mad. His coat chafed
her face; as she struggled she could see the strong working of his throat. She
fought against him; she struggled in panic to be free. “Let me go!” she cried.
“Let me go! Let me go!” He held her in bewilderment and terror. She thrust her
hands in his chest and pushed him apart. Her face, blind to him, was very much
distorted by her suffering. She thrust him furiously away with great strength.
His heart stood still with wonder. She broke from him and dropped down, sobbing
wildly, in the shelter of the tumuli. She was bunched in a small, shaken heap.
Siegmund could not bear it. He went on one knee beside her, trying to take her
hand in his, and pleading:

“Only tell me, Helena, what it is. Tell me what it is. At least tell me, Helena;
tell me what it is. Oh, but this is dreadful!”

She had turned convulsively from him. She shook herself, as if beside herself,
and at last covered her ears with her hands, to shut out this unreasoning
pleading of his voice. Seeing her like this, Siegmund at last gave in. Quite
still, he knelt on one knee beside her, staring at the late twilight. The
intense silence was crackling with the sound of Helena’s dry, hissing sobs. He
remained silenced, stunned by the unnatural conflict. After waiting a while, he
put his hand on her. She winced convulsively away. Then he rose, saying in his
heart, “It is enough,” He went behind the small hill, and looked at the night.
It was all exposed. He wanted to hide, to cover himself from the openness, and
there was not even a bush under which he could find cover. He lay down flat on
the ground, pressing his face into the wiry turf, trying to hide. Quite stunned,
with a death taking place in his soul, he lay still, pressed against the earth.
He held his breath for a long time before letting it go, then again he held it.
He could scarcely bear, even by breathing, to betray himself. His consciousness
was dark. Helena had sobbed and struggled the life animation back into herself.
At length, weary but comfortable, she lay still to rest. Almost she could have
gone to sleep. But she grew chilly, and a ground insect tickled her face. Was
somebody coming? It was dark when she rose. Siegmund was not in sight. She
tidied herself, and rather frightened, went to look for him. She saw him like a
thick shadow on the earth. Now she was heavy with tears good to shed. She stood
in silent sorrow, looking at him. Suddenly she became aware of someone passing
and looking curiously at them. “Dear!” she said softly, stooping and touching
his hair. He began to struggle with himself to respond. At that minute he would
rather have died than face anyone. His soul was too much uncovered. “Dear,
someone is looking,” she pleaded. He drew himself up from cover. But he kept his
face averted. They walked on. “Forgive me, dear,” she said softly. “Nay, it’s
not you,” he answered, and she was silenced. They walked on till the night
seemed private. She turned to him, and “Siegmund!” she said, in a voice of great
sorrow and pleading. He took her in his arms, but did not kiss her, though she
lifted her face. He put his mouth against her throat, below the ear, as she
offered it, and stood looking out through the ravel of her hair, dazed, dreamy.
The sea was smoking with darkness under half-luminous heavens. The stars, one
after another, were catching alight. Siegmund perceived first one, and then
another dimmer one, flicker out in the darkness over the sea. He stood perfectly
still, watching them. Gradually he remembered how, in the cathedral, the tapers
of the choir-stalls would tremble and set steadily to burn, opening the darkness
point after point with yellow drops of flame, as the acolyte touched them, one
by one, delicately with his rod. The night was religious, then, with its proper
order of worship. Day and night had their ritual, and passed in uncouth worship.
Siegmund found himself in an abbey. He looked up the nave of the night, where
the sky came down on the sea-like arches, and he watched the stars catch fire.
At least it was all sacred, whatever the God might be. Helena herself, the
bitter bread, was stuff of the ceremony, which he touched with his lips as part
of the service. He had Helena in his arms, which was sweet company, but in
spirit he was quite alone. She would have drawn him back to her, and on her
woman’s breast have hidden him from Fate, and saved him from searching the
unknown. But this night he did not want comfort. If he were “an infant crying in
the night”, it was crying that a woman could not still. He was abroad seeking
courage and faith for his own soul. He, in loneliness, must search the night for
faith. “My fate is finely wrought out,” he thought to himself. “Even damnation
may be finely imagined for me in the night. I have come so far. Now I must get
clarity and courage to follow out the theme. I don’t want to botch and bungle
even damnation.”

But he needed to know what was right, what was the proper sequence of his acts.
Staring at the darkness, he seemed to feel his course, though he could not see
it. He bowed in obedience. The stars seemed to swing softly in token of
submission. XVI

Feeling him abstract, withdrawn from her, Helena experienced the dread of losing
him. She was in his arms, but his spirit ignored her. That was insufferable to
her pride. Yet she dared not disturb him—she was afraid. Bitterly she repented
her of the giving way to her revulsion a little space before. Why had she not
smothered it and pretended? Why had she, a woman, betrayed herself so
flagrantly? Now perhaps she had lost him for good. She was consumed with
uneasiness. At last she drew back from him, held him her mouth to kiss. As he
gently, sadly kissed her she pressed him to her bosom. She must get him back,
whatever else she lost. She put her hand tenderly on his brow. “What are you
thinking of?” she asked. “I?” he replied. “I really don’t know. I suppose I was
hardly thinking anything.”

She waited a while, clinging to him, then, finding some difficulty in speech,
she asked:

“Was I very cruel, dear?”

It was so unusual to hear her grieved and filled with humility that he drew her
close into him. “It was pretty bad, I suppose,” he replied. “But I should think
neither of us could help it.”

She gave a little sob, pressed her face into his chest, wishing she had helped
it. Then, with Madonna love, she clasped his head upon her shoulder, covering
her hands over his hair. Twice she kissed him softly in the nape of the neck,
with fond, reassuring kisses. All the while, delicately, she fondled and soothed
him, till he was child to her Madonna. They remained standing with his head on
her shoulder for some time, till at last he raised himself to lay his lips on
hers in a long kiss of healing and renewal—long, pale kisses of after-suffering.
Someone was coming along the path. Helena let him go, shook herself free, turned
sharply aside, and said:

“Shall we go down to the water?”

“If you like,” he replied, putting out his hand to her. They went thus with
clasped hands down the cliff path to the beach. There they sat in the shadow of
the uprising island, facing the restless water. Around them the sand and shingle
were grey; there stretched a long pale line of surf, beyond which the sea was
black and smeared with star-reflections. The deep, velvety sky shone with
lustrous stars. As yet the moon was not risen. Helena proposed that they should
lie on a tuft of sand in a black cleft of the cliff to await its coming. They
lay close together without speaking. Each was looking at a low, large star which
hung straight in front of them, dripping its brilliance in a thin streamlet of
light along the sea almost to their feet. It was a star-path fine and clear,
trembling in its brilliance, but certain upon the water. Helena watched it with
delight. As Siegmund looked at the star, it seemed to him a lantern hung at the
gate to light someone home. He imagined himself following the thread of the
star-track. What was behind the gate? They heard the wash of a steamer crossing
the bay. The water seemed populous in the night-time, with dark, uncanny comings
and goings. Siegmund was considering. “What _was_ the matter with you?” he
asked. She leaned over him, took his head in her lap, holding his face between
her two hands as she answered in a low, grave voice, very wise and old in
experience:

“Why, you see, dear, you won’t understand. But there was such a greyish
darkness, and through it—the crying of lives I have touched….”

His heart suddenly shrank and sank down. She acknowledged then that she also had
helped to injure Beatrice and his children. He coiled with shame. “….A crying of
lives against me, and I couldn’t silence them, nor escape out of the darkness. I
wanted you—I saw you in front, whistling the Spring Song, but I couldn’t find
you—it was not you—I couldn’t find you.”

She kissed his eyes and his brows. “No, I don’t see it,” he said. “You would
always be you. I could think of hating you, but you’d still be yourself.”

She made a moaning, loving sound. Full of passionate pity, she moved her mouth
on his face, as a woman does on her child that has hurt itself. “Sometimes,” she
murmured, in a low, grieved confession, “you lose me.”

He gave a brief laugh. “I lose you!” he repeated. “You mean I lose my attraction
for you, or my hold over you, and then you—?”

He did not finish. She made the same grievous murmuring noise over him. “It
shall not be any more,” she said. “All right,” he replied, “since you decide
it.”

She clasped him round the chest and fondled him, distracted with pity. “You
mustn’t be bitter,” she murmured. “Four days is enough,” he said. “In a
fortnight I should be intolerable to you. I am not masterful.”

“It is not so, Siegmund,” she said sharply. “I give way always,” he repeated.
“And then—tonight!”

“Tonight, tonight!” she cried in wrath. “Tonight I have been a fool!”

“And I?” he asked. “You—what of you?” she cried. Then she became sad. “I have
little perverse feelings,” she lamented. “And I can’t bear to compel anything,
for fear of hurting it. So I’m always pushed this way and that, like a fool.”

“You don’t know how you hurt me, talking so,” she said. He kissed her. After a
moment he said:

“You are not like other folk. ‘_Ihr Lascheks seid ein anderes Geschlecht_.’ I
thought of you when we read it.”

“Would you rather have me more like the rest, or more unlike, Siegmund? Which is
it?”

“Neither,” he said. “You are _you_.”

They were quiet for a space. The only movement in the night was the faint
gambolling of starlight on the water. The last person had passed in black
silhouette between them and the sea. He was thinking bitterly. She seemed to
goad him deeper and deeper into life. He had a sense of despair, a preference of
death. The German she read with him—she loved its loose and violent romance—came
back to his mind: “_Der Tod geht einem zur Seite, fast sichtbarlich, und jagt
einem immer tiefer ins Leben._”

Well, the next place he would be hunted to, like a hare run down, was home. It
seemed impossible the morrow would take him back to Beatrice. “This time
tomorrow night,” he said. “Siegmund!” she implored. “Why not?” he laughed.
“Don’t, dear,” she pleaded. “All right, I won’t.”

Some large steamer crossing the mouth of the bay made the water dash a little as
it broke in accentuated waves. A warm puff of air wandered in on them now and
again. “You won’t be tired when you go back?” Helena asked. “Tired!” he echoed.
“You know how you were when you came,” she reminded him, in tones full of pity.
He laughed. “Oh, that is gone,” he said. With a slow, mechanical rhythm she
stroked his cheek. “And will you be sad?” she said, hesitating. “Sad!” he
repeated. “But will you be able to fake the old life up, happier, when you go
back?”

“The old life will take me up, I suppose,” he said. There was a pause. “I think,
dear,” she said, “I have done wrong.”

“Good Lord—you have not!” he replied sharply, pressing back his head to look at
her, for the first time. “I shall have to send you back to Beatrice and the
babies—tomorrow—as you are now….”

“‘Take no thought for the morrow.’ Be quiet, Helena!” he exclaimed as the
reality bit him. He sat up suddenly. “Why?” she asked, afraid. “Why!” he
repeated. He remained sitting, leaning forward on the sand, staring intently at
Helena. She looked back in fear at him. The moment terrified her, and she lost
courage. With a fluttered motion she put her hand on his, which was pressed hard
on the sand as he leaned forward. At once he relaxed his intensity, laughed,
then became tender. Helena yielded herself like a forlorn child to his arms, and
there lay, half crying, while he smoothed her brow with his fingers, and grains
of sand fell from his palm on her cheek. She shook with dry, withered sobs, as a
child does when it snatches itself away from the lancet of the doctor and hides
in the mother’s bosom, refusing to be touched. But she knew the morrow was
coming, whether or not, and she cowered down on his breast. She was wild with
fear of the parting and the subsequent days. They must drink, after tomorrow,
separate cups. She was filled with vague terror of what it would be. The sense
of the oneness and unity of their fates was gone. Siegmund also was cowed by the
threat of separation. He had more definite knowledge of the next move than had
Helena. His heart was certain of calamity, which would overtake him directly. He
shrank away. Wildly he beat about to find a means of escape from the next day
and its consequences. He did not want to go. Anything rather than go back. In
the midst of their passion of fear the moon rose. Siegmund started to see the
rim appear ruddily beyond the sea. His struggling suddenly ceased, and he
watched, spellbound, the oval horn of fiery gold come up, resolve itself. Some
golden liquor dripped and spilled upon the far waves, where it shook in ruddy
splashes. The gold-red cup rose higher, looming before him very large, yet still
not all discovered. By degrees the horn of gold detached itself from the
darkness at back of the waves. It was immense and terrible. When would the tip
be placed upon the table of the sea? It stood at last, whole and calm, before
him; then the night took up this drinking-cup of fiery gold, lifting it with
majestic movement overhead, letting stream forth the wonderful unwasted liquor
of gold over the sea—a libation. Siegmund looked at the shaking flood of gold
and paling gold spread wider as the night upraised the blanching crystal, poured
out farther and farther the immense libation from the whitening cup, till at
last the moon looked frail and empty. And there, exhaustless in the night, the
white light shook on the floor of the sea. He wondered how it would be gathered
up. “I gather it up into myself,” he said. And the stars and the cliffs and a
few trees were watching, too. “If I have spilled my life,” he thought, “the
unfamiliar eyes of the land and sky will gather it up again.”

Turning to Helena, he found her face white and shining as the empty moon. XVII

Towards morning, Siegmund went to sleep. For four hours, until seven o’clock,
the womb of sleep received him and nourished him again. “But it is finest of all
to wake,” he said, as the bright sunshine of the window, and the lumining green
sunshine coming through the lifted hands of the leaves, challenged him into the
open. The morning was exceedingly fair, and it looked at him so gently that his
blue eyes trembled with self-pity. A fragment of scarlet geranium glanced up at
him as he passed, so that amid the vermilion tyranny of the uniform it wore he
could see the eyes of the flower, wistful, offering him love, as one sometimes
see the eyes of a man beneath the brass helmet of a soldier, and is startled.
Everything looked at him with the same eyes of tenderness, offering him,
timidly, a little love. “They are all extraordinarily sweet,” said Siegmund to
the full-mouthed scabious and the awkward, downcast ragwort. Three or four
butterflies fluttered up and down in agitated little leaps, around him.
Instinctively Siegmund put his hand forward to touch them. “The careless little
beggars!” he said. When he came to the cliff tops there was the morning, very
bravely dressed, rustling forward with a silken sound and much silken shining to
meet him. The battleships had gone; the sea was blue with a _panier_ of
diamonds; the sky was full with a misty tenderness like love. Siegmund had never
recognized before the affection that existed between him and everything. We do
not realize how tremendously dear and indispensable to us are the hosts of
common things, till we must leave them, and we break our hearts. “We have been
very happy together,” everything seemed to say. Siegmund looked up into the eyes
of the morning with a laugh. “It is very lovely,” he said, “whatever happens.”

So he went down to the beach; his dark blue eyes, darker from last night’s
experience, smiled always with the pride of love. He undressed by his usual
altar-stone. “How closely familiar everything is,” he thought. “It seems almost
as if the curves of this stone were rounded to fit in my soul.”

He touched the smooth white slope of the stone gently with discovering fingers,
in the same way as he touched the cheek of Helena, or of his own babies. He
found great pleasure in this feeling of intimacy with things. A very soft wind,
shy as a girl, put his arms round him, and seemed to lay its cheek against his
chest. He placed his hands beneath his arms, where the wind was caressing him,
and his eyes opened with wondering pleasure. “They find no fault with me,” he
said. “I suppose they are as fallible as I, and so don’t judge,” he added, as he
waded thigh-deep into the water, thrusting it to hear the mock-angry
remonstrance. “Once more,” he said, and he took the sea in his arms. He swam
very quietly. The water buoyed him up, holding him closely clasped. He swam
towards the white rocks of the headlands; they rose before him like beautiful
buttressed gates, so glistening that he half expected to see fantail pigeons
puffing like white irises in the niches, and white peacocks with dark green feet
stepping down the terraces, trailing a sheen of silver. “Helena is right,” he
said to himself as he swam, scarcely swimming, but moving upon the bosom of the
tide; “she is right, it is all enchanted. I have got into her magic at last. Let
us see what it is like.”

He determined to visit again his little bay. He swam carefully round the
terraces, whose pale shadows through the swift-spinning emerald facets of the
water seemed merest fancy. Siegmund touched them with his foot; they were hard,
cold, dangerous. He swam carefully. As he made for the archway, the shadows of
the headland chilled the water. There under water, clamouring in a throng at the
base of the submerged walls, were sea-women with dark locks, and young sea-
girls, with soft hair, vividly green, striving to climb up out of the darkness
into the morning, their hair swirling in abandon. Siegmund was half afraid of
their frantic efforts. But the tide carried him swiftly through the high gate
into the porch. There was exultance in this sweeping entry. The skin-white,
full-fleshed walls of the archway were dappled with green lights that danced in
and out among themselves. Siegmund was carried along in an invisible chariot,
beneath the jewel-stained walls. The tide swerved, threw him as he swam against
the inward-curving white rock; his elbow met the rock, and he was sick with
pain. He held his breath, trying to get back the joy and magic. He could not
believe that the lovely, smooth side of the rock, fair as his own side with its
ripple of muscles, could have hurt him thus. He let the water carry him till he
might climb out on to the shingle. There he sat upon a warm boulder, and twisted
to look at his arm. The skin was grazed, not very badly, merely a ragged scarlet
patch no bigger than a carnation petal. The bruise, however, was painful,
especially when, a minute or two later, he bent his arm. “No,” said he pitiably
to himself, “it is impossible it should have hurt me. I suppose I was careless.”

Nevertheless, the aspect of the morning changed. He sat on the boulder looking
out on the sea. The azure sky and the sea laughed on, holding a bright
conversation one with another. The two headlands of the tiny bay gossiped across
the street of water. All the boulders and pebbles of the sea-shore played
together. “Surely,” said Siegmund, “they take no notice of me; they do not care
a jot or a tittle for me. I am a fool to think myself one with them.”

He contrasted this with the kindness of the morning as he had stood on the
cliffs. “I was mistaken,” he said. “It was an illusion.”

He looked wistfully out again. Like neighbours leaning from opposite windows of
an overhanging street, the headlands were occupied one with another. White rocks
strayed out to sea, followed closely by other white rocks. Everything was busy,
interested, occupied with its own pursuit and with its own comrades. Siegmund
alone was without pursuit or comrade. “They will all go on the same; they will
be just as gay. Even Helena, after a while, will laugh and take interest in
others. What do I matter?”

Siegmund thought of the futility of death:

We are not long for music and laughter,     Love and desire and hate; I think we
have no portion in them after     We pass the gate. “Why should I be turned out
of the game?” he asked himself, rebelling. He frowned, and answered: “Oh,
Lord!—the old argument!”

But the thought of his own expunging from the picture was very bitter. “Like the
puff from the steamer’s funnel, I should be gone.”

He looked at himself, at his limbs and his body in the pride of his maturity. He
was very beautiful to himself. “Nothing, in the place where I am,” he said.
“Gone, like a puff of steam that melts on the sunshine.”

Again Siegmund looked at the sea. It was glittering with laughter as at a joke.
“And I,” he said, lying down in the warm sand, “I am nothing. I do not count; I
am inconsiderable.”

He set his teeth with pain. There were no tears, there was no relief. A
convulsive gasping shook him as he lay on the sands. All the while he was
arguing with himself. “Well,” he said, “if I am nothing dead I am nothing
alive.”

But the vulgar proverb arose—“Better a live dog than a dead lion,” to answer
him. It seemed an ignominy to be dead. It meant, to be overlooked, even by the
smallest creature of God’s earth. Surely that was a great ignominy. Helena,
meanwhile, was bathing, for the last time, by the same sea-shore with him. She
was no swimmer. Her endless delight was to explore, to discover small treasures.
For her the world was still a great wonder-box which hid innumerable sweet toys
for surprises in all its crevices. She had bathed in many rock-pools’ tepid
baths, trying first one, then another. She had lain on the sand where the cold
arms of the ocean lifted her and smothered her impetuously, like an awful lover.
“The sea is a great deal like Siegmund,” she said, as she rose panting, trying
to dash her nostrils free from water. It was true; the sea as it flung over her
filled her with the same uncontrollable terror as did Siegmund when he sometimes
grew silent and strange in a tide of passion. She wandered back to her rock-
pools; they were bright and docile; they did not fling her about in a game of
terror. She bent over watching the anemone’s fleshy petals shrink from the touch
of her shadow, and she laughed to think they should be so needlessly fearful.
The flowing tide trickled noiselessly among the rocks, widening and deepening
insidiously her little pools. Helena retreated towards a large cave round the
bend. There the water gurgled under the bladder-wrack of the large stones; the
air was cool and clammy. She pursued her way into the gloom, bending, though
there was no need, shivering at the coarse feel of the seaweed beneath her naked
feet. The water came rustling up beneath the fucus as she crept along on the big
stones; it returned with a quiet gurgle which made her shudder, though even that
was not disagreeable. It needed, for all that, more courage than was easy to
summon before she could step off her stone into the black pool that confronted
her. It was festooned thick with weeds that slid under her feet like snakes. She
scrambled hastily upwards towards the outlet. Turning, the ragged arch was
before heir, brighter than the brightest window. It was easy to believe the
light-fairies stood outside in a throng, excited with fine fear, throwing
handfuls of light into the dragon’s hole. “How surprised they will be to see
me!” said Helena, scrambling forward, laughing. She stood still in the archway,
astounded. The sea was blazing with white fire, and glowing with azure as coals
glow red with heat below the flames. The sea was transfused with white burning,
while over it hung the blue sky in a glory, like the blue smoke of the fire of
God. Helena stood still and worshipped. It was a moment of astonishment, when
she stood breathless and blinded, involuntarily offering herself for a thank-
offering. She felt herself confronting God at home in His white incandescence,
His fire settling on her like the Holy Spirit. Her lips were parted in a woman’s
joy of adoration. The moment passed, and her thoughts hurried forward in
confusion. “It is good,” said Helena; “it is very good.” She looked again, and
saw the waves like a line of children racing hand in hand, the sunlight
pursuing, catching hold of them from behind, as they ran wildly till they fell,
caught, with the sunshine dancing upon them like a white dog. “It is really
wonderful here!” said she; but the moment had gone, she could not see again the
grand burning of God among the waves. After a while she turned away. As she
stood dabbling her bathing-dress in a pool, Siegmund came over the beach to her.
“You are not gone, then?” he said. “Siegmund!” she exclaimed, looking up at him
with radiant eyes, as if it could not be possible that he had joined her in this
rare place. His face was glowing with the sun’s inflaming, but Helena did not
notice that his eyes were full of misery. “I, actually,” he said, smiling. “I
did not expect you,” she said, still looking at him in radiant wonder. “I could
easier have expected”—she hesitated, struggled, and continued—“Eros walking by
the sea. But you are like him,” she said, looking radiantly up into Siegmund’s
face. “Isn’t it beautiful this morning?” she added. Siegmund endured her wide,
glad look for a moment, then he stooped and kissed her. He remained moving his
hand in the pool, ashamed, and full of contradiction. He was at the bitter point
of farewell; could see, beyond the glamour around him, the ugly building of his
real life. “Isn’t the sea wonderful this morning?” asked Helena, as she wrung
the water from her costume. “It is very fine,” he answered. He refrained from
saying what his heart said: “It is my last morning; it is not yours. It is my
last morning, and the sea is enjoying the joke, and you are full of delight.”

“Yes,” said Siegmund, “the morning is perfect.”

“It is,” assented Helena warmly. “Have you noticed the waves? They are like a
line of children chased by a white dog.”

“Ay!” said Siegmund. “Didn’t you have a good time?” she asked, touching with her
finger-tips the nape of his neck as he stooped beside her. “I swam to my little
bay again,” he replied. “Did you?” she exclaimed, pleased. She sat down by the
pool, in which she washed her feet free from sand, holding them to Siegmund to
dry. “I am very hungry,” she said. “And I,” he agreed. “I feel quite established
here,” she said gaily, something in his position having reminded her of their
departure. He laughed. “It seems another eternity before the three-forty-five
train, doesn’t it?” she insisted. “I wish we might never go back,” he said.
Helena sighed. “It would be too much for life to give. We have had something,
Siegmund,” she said. He bowed his head, and did not answer. “It has been
something, dear,” she repeated. He rose and took her in his arms. “Everything,”
he said, his face muffled in the shoulder of her dress. He could smell her fresh
and fine from the sea. “Everything!” he said. She pressed her two hands on his
head. “I did well, didn’t I, Siegmund?” she asked. Helena felt the
responsibility of this holiday. She had proposed it; when he had withdrawn, she
had insisted, refusing to allow him to take back his word, declaring that she
should pay the cost. He permitted her at last. “Wonderfully well, Helena,” he
replied. She kissed his forehead. “You are everything,” he said. She pressed his
head on her bosom. XVIII

Siegmund had shaved and dressed, and come down to breakfast. Mrs Curtiss brought
in the coffee. She was a fragile little woman, of delicate, gentle manner. “The
water would be warm this morning,” she said, addressing no one in particular.
Siegmund stood on the hearth-rug with his hands behind him, swaying from one leg
to the other. He was embarrassed always by the presence of the amiable little
woman; he could not feel at ease before strangers, in his capacity of accepted
swain of Helena. “It was,” assented Helena. “It was as warm as new milk.”

“Ay, it would be,” said the old lady, looking in admiration upon the experience
of Siegmund and his beloved. “And did ye see the ships of war?” she asked. “No,
they had gone,” replied Helena. Siegmund swayed from foot to foot, rhythmically.
“You’ll be coming in to dinner today?” asked the old lady. Helena arranged the
matter. “I think ye both look better,” Mrs. Curtiss said. She glanced at
Siegmund. He smiled constrainedly. “I thought ye looked so worn when you came,”
she said sympathetically. “He had been working hard,” said Helena, also glancing
at him. He bent his head, and was whistling without making any sound. “Ay,”
sympathized the little woman. “And it’s a very short time for you. What a pity
ye can’t stop for the fireworks at Cowes on Monday. They are grand, so they
say.”

Helena raised her eyebrows in polite interest. “Have you never seen them?” she
asked. “No,” replied Mrs. Curtiss. “I’ve never been able to get; but I hope to
go yet.”

“I hope you may,” said Siegmund. The little woman beamed on him. Having won a
word from him, she was quite satisfied. “Well,” she said brightly, “the eggs
must be done by now.”

She tripped out, to return directly. “I’ve brought you,” she said, “some of the
Island cream, and some white currants, if ye’ll have them. You must think well
of the Island, and come back.”

“How could we help?” laughed Helena. “We will,” smiled Siegmund. When finally
the door was closed on her, Siegmund sat down in relief. Helena looked in
amusement at him. She was perfectly self-possessed in presence of the delightful
little lady. “This is one of the few places that has ever felt like home to me,”
she said. She lifted a tangled bunch of fine white currants. “Ah!” exclaimed
Siegmund, smiling at her. “One of the few places where everything is friendly,”
she said. “And everybody.”

“You have made so many enemies?” he asked, with gentle irony. “Strangers,” she
replied. “I seem to make strangers of all the people I meet.”

She laughed in amusement at this _mot_. Siegmund looked at her intently. He was
thinking of her left alone amongst strangers. “Need we go—need we leave this
place of friends?” he said, as if ironically. He was very much afraid of
tempting her. She looked at the clock on the mantelpiece and counted: “One, two,
three, four, five hours, thirty-five minutes. It is an age yet,” she laughed.
Siegmund laughed too, as he accepted the particularly fine bunch of currants she
had extricated for him. XIX

The air was warm and sweet in the little lane, remote from the sea, which led
them along their last walk. On either side the white path was a grassy margin
thickly woven with pink convolvuli. Some of the reckless little flowers, so gay
and evanescent, had climbed the trunks of an old yew tree, and were looking up
pertly at their rough host. Helena walked along, watching the flowers, and
making fancies out of them. “Who called them ‘fairies’ telephones’?” she said to
herself. “They are tiny children in pinafores. How gay they are! They are
children dawdling along the pavement of a morning. How fortunate they are! See
how they take a wind-thrill! See how wide they are set to the sunshine! And when
they are tired, they will curl daintily to sleep, and some fairies in the dark
will gather them away. They won’t be here in the morning, shrivelled and dowdy …
If only we could curl up and be gone, after our day….”

She looked at Siegmund. He was walking moodily beside her. “It is good when life
holds no anti-climax,” she said. “Ay!” he answered. Of course, he could not
understand her meaning. She strayed into the thick grass, a sturdy white figure
that walked with bent head, abstract, but happy. “What is she thinking?” he
asked himself. “She is sufficient to herself—she doesn’t want me. She has her
own private way of communing with things, and is friends with them.”

“The dew has been very heavy,” she said, turning, and looking up at him from
under her brows, like a smiling witch. “I see it has,” he answered. Then to
himself he said: “She can’t translate herself into language. She is
incommunicable; she can’t render herself to the intelligence. So she is alone
and a law unto herself: she only wants me to explore me, like a rock-pool, and
to bathe in me. After a while, when I am gone, she will see I was not
indispensable….”

The lane led up to the eastern down. As they were emerging, they saw on the left
hand an extraordinarily spick and span red bungalow. The low roof of dusky red
sloped down towards the coolest green lawn, that was edged and ornamented with
scarlet, and yellow, and white flowers brilliant with dew. A stout man in an
alpaca jacket and panama hat was seated on the bare lawn, his back to the sun,
reading a newspaper. He tried in vain to avoid the glare of the sun on his
reading. At last he closed the paper and looked angrily at the house—not at
anything in particular. He irritably read a few more lines, then jerked up his
head in sudden decision, glared at the open door of the house, and called:

“Amy! Amy!”

No answer was forthcoming. He flung down the paper and strode off indoors, his
mien one of wrathful resolution. His voice was heard calling curtly from the
dining-room. There was a jingle of crockery as he bumped the table leg in
sitting down. “He is in a bad temper,” laughed Siegmund. “Breakfast is late,”
said Helena with contempt. “Look!” said Siegmund. An elderly lady in black and
white striped linen, a young lady in holland, both carrying some wild flowers,
hastened towards the garden gate. Their faces were turned anxiously to the
house. They were hot with hurrying, and had no breath for words. The girl
pressed forward, opened the gate for the lady in striped linen, who hastened
over the lawn. Then the daughter followed, and vanished also under the shady
veranda. There was a quick sound of women’s low, apologetic voices, overridden
by the resentful abuse of the man. The lovers moved out of hearing. “Imagine
that breakfast-table!” said Siegmund. “I feel,” said Helena, with a keen twang
of contempt in her voice, “as if a fussy cock and hens had just scuffled across
my path.”

“There are many such roosts,” said Siegmund pertinently. Helena’s cold scorn was
very disagreeable to him. She talked to him winsomely and very kindly as they
crossed the open down to meet the next incurving of the coast, and Siegmund was
happy. But the sense of humiliation, which he had got from her the day before,
and which had fixed itself, bled him secretly, like a wound. This haemorrhage of
self-esteem tortured him to the end. Helena had rejected him. She gave herself
to her fancies only. For some time she had confused Siegmund with her god.
Yesterday she had cried to her ideal lover, and found only Siegmund. It was the
spear in the side of his tortured self-respect. “At least,” he said, in
mortification of himself—“at least, someone must recognize a strain of God in
me—and who does? I don’t believe in it myself.”

And, moreover, in the intense joy and suffering of his realized passion, the
island, with its sea and sky, had fused till, like a brilliant bead, all their
beauty ran together out of the common ore, and Siegmund saw it naked, saw the
beauty of everything naked in the shifting magic of this bead. The island would
be gone tomorrow: he would look for the beauty and find the dirt. What was he to
do? “You know, Domine,” said Helena—it was his old nickname she used—“you look
quite stern today.”

“I feel anything but stern,” he laughed. “Weaker than usual, in fact.”

“Yes, perhaps so, when you talk. Then you are really surprisingly gentle. But
when you are silent, I am even afraid of you—you seem so grave.”

He laughed. “And shall I not be brave?” he said. “Can’t you smell _Fumum et opes
strepitumque Romae_?” He turned quickly to Helena. “I wonder if that’s right,”
he said. “It’s years since I did a line of Latin, and I thought it had all
gone.”

“In the first place, what does it mean?” said Helena calmly, “for I can only
half translate. I have thrown overboard all my scrap-books of such stuff.”

“Why,” said Siegmund, rather abashed, “only ‘the row and the smoke of Rome’. But
it is remarkable, Helena”—here the peculiar look of interest came on his face
again—“it is really remarkable that I should have said that.”

“Yes, you look surprised,” smiled she. “But it must be twenty”—he
counted—“twenty-two or three years since I learned that, and I forgot
it—goodness knows how long ago. Like a drowning man, I have these memories
before….” He broke off, smiling mockingly, to tease her. “Before you go back to
London,” said she, in a matter-of-fact, almost ironical tone. She was
inscrutable. This morning she could not bear to let any deep emotion come
uppermost. She wanted rest. “No,” she said, with calm distinctness, a few
moments after, when they were climbing the rise to the cliff’s edge. “I can’t
say that I smell the smoke of London. The mist-curtain is thick yet. There it
is”—she pointed to the heavy, purple-grey haze that hung like arras on a wall,
between the sloping sky and the sea. She thought of yesterday morning’s mist-
curtain, thick and blazing gold, so heavy that no wind could sway its fringe.
They lay down in the dry grass, upon the gold bits of bird’s-foot trefoil of the
cliff’s edge, and looked out to sea. A warm, drowsy calm drooped over
everything. “Six hours,” thought Helena, “and we shall have passed the mist-
curtain. Already it is thinning. I could break it open with waving my hand. I
will not wave my hand.”

She was exhausted by the suffering of the last night, so she refused to allow
any emotion to move her this morning, till she was strong. Siegmund was also
exhausted; but his thoughts laboured like ants, in spite of himself, striving
towards a conclusion. Helena had rejected him. In his heart he felt that in this
love affair also he had been a failure. No matter how he contradicted himself,
and said it was absurd to imagine he was a failure as Helena’s lover, yet he
felt a physical sensation of defeat, a kind of knot in his breast which neither
reason, nor dialectics, nor circumstance, not even Helena, could untie. He had
failed as lover to Helena. It was not surprising his marriage with Beatrice
should prove disastrous. Rushing into wedlock as he had done, at the ripe age of
seventeen, he had known nothing of his woman, nor she of him. When his mind and
soul set to develop, as Beatrice could not sympathize with his interests, he
naturally inclined away from her, so that now, after twenty years, he was almost
a stranger to her. That was not very surprising. But why should he have failed
with Helena? The bees droned fitfully over the scented grass, aimlessly swinging
in the heat. Siegmund watched one gold and amber fellow lazily let go a white
clover-head, and boom in a careless curve out to sea, humming softer and softer
as he reeled along in the giddy space. “The little fool!” said Siegmund,
watching the black dot swallowed into the light. No ship sailed the curving sea.
The light danced in a whirl upon the ripples. Everything else watched with heavy
eyes of heat enhancement the wild spinning of the lights. “Even if I were free,”
he continued to think, “we should only grow apart, Helena and I. She would leave
me. This time I should be the laggard. She is young and vigorous; I am beginning
to set. “Is that why I have failed? I ought to have had her in love sufficiently
to keep her these few days. I am not quick. I do not follow her or understand
her swiftly enough. And I am always timid of compulsion. I cannot compel anybody
to follow me. “So we are here. I am out of my depth. Like the bee, I was mad
with the sight of so much joy, such a blue space, and now I shall find no
footing to alight on. I have flown out into life beyond my strength to get back.
When can I set my feet on when this is gone?”

The sun grew stronger. Slower and more slowly went the hawks of Siegmund’s mind,
after the quarry of conclusion. He lay bare-headed, looking out to sea. The sun
was burning deeper into his face and head. “I feel as if it were burning into
me,” thought Siegmund abstractedly. “It is certainly consuming some part of me.
Perhaps it is making me ill.” Meanwhile, perversely, he gave his face and his
hot black hair to the sun. Helena lay in what shadow he afforded. The heat put
out all her thought-activity. Presently she said:

“This heat is terrible, Siegmund. Shall we go down to the water?”

They climbed giddily down the cliff path. Already they were somewhat sun-
intoxicated. Siegmund chose the hot sand, where no shade was, on which to lie.
“Shall we not go under the rocks?” said Helena. “Look!” he said, “the sun is
beating on the cliffs. It is hotter, more suffocating, there.”

So they lay down in the glare, Helena watching the foam retreat slowly with a
cool splash; Siegmund thinking. The naked body of heat was dreadful. “My arms,
Siegmund,” said she. “They feel as if they were dipped in fire.”

Siegmund took them, without a word, and hid them under his coat. “Are you sure
it is not bad for you—your head, Siegmund? Are you sure?”

He laughed stupidly. “That is all right,” he said. He knew that the sun was
burning through him, and doing him harm, but he wanted the intoxication. As he
looked wistfully far away over the sea at Helena’s mist-curtain, he said:

“I _think_ we should be able to keep together if”—he faltered—“if only I could
have you a little longer. I have never had you …”

Some sound of failure, some tone telling her it was too late, some ring of
despair in his quietness, made Helena cling to him wildly, with a savage little
cry as if she were wounded. She clung to him, almost beside herself. She could
not lose him, she could not spare him. She would not let him go. Helena was, for
the moment, frantic. He held her safely, saying nothing until she was calmer,
when, with his lips on her cheek, he murmured:

“I should be able, shouldn’t I, Helena?”

“You are always able!” she cried. “It is I who play with you at hiding.”

“I have really had you so little,” he said. “Can’t you forget it, Siegmund?” she
cried. “Can’t you forget it? It was only a shadow, Siegmund. It was a lie, it
was nothing real. Can’t you forget it, dear?”

“You can’t do without me?” he asked. “If I lose you I am lost,” answered she
with swift decision. She had no knowledge of weeping, yet her tears were wet on
his face. He held her safely; her arms were hidden under his coat. “I will have
no mercy on those shadows the next time they come between us,” said Helena to
herself. “They may go back to hell.”

She still clung to him, craving so to have him that he could not be reft away.
Siegmund felt very peaceful. He lay with his arms about her, listening to the
backward-creeping tide. All his thoughts, like bees, were flown out to sea and
lost. “If I had her more, I should understand her through and through. If we
were side by side we should grow together. If we could stay here, I should get
stronger and more upright.”

This was the poor heron of quarry the hawks of his mind had struck. Another hour
fell like a foxglove bell from the stalk. There were only two red blossoms left.
Then the stem would have set to seed. Helena leaned her head upon the breast of
Siegmund, her arms clasping, under his coat, his body, which swelled and sank
gently, with the quiet of great power. “If,” thought she, “the whole clock of
the world could stand still now, and leave us thus, me with the lift and fall of
the strong body of Siegmund in my arms….”

But the clock ticked on in the heat, the seconds marked off by the falling of
the waves, repeated so lightly, and in such fragile rhythm, that it made silence
sweet. “If now,” prayed Siegmund, “death would wipe the sweat from me, and it
were dark….”

But the waves softly marked the minutes, retreating farther, leaving the bare
rocks to bleach and the weed to shrivel. Gradually, like the shadow on a dial,
the knowledge that it was time to rise and go crept upon them. Although they
remained silent, each knew that the other felt the same weight of
responsibility, the shadow-finger of the sundial travelling over them. The
alternative was, not to return, to let the finger travel and be gone. But then …
Helena knew she must not let the time cross her; she must rise before it was too
late, and travel before the coming finger. Siegmund hoped she would not get up.
He lay in suspense, waiting. At last she sat up abruptly. “It is time,
Siegmund,” she said. He did not answer, he did not look at her, but lay as she
had left him. She wiped her face with her handkerchief, waiting. Then she bent
over him. He did not look at her. She saw his forehead was swollen and inflamed
with the sun. Very gently she wiped from it the glistening sweat. He closed his
eyes, and she wiped his cheeks and his mouth. Still he did not look at her. She
bent very close to him, feeling her heart crushed with grief for him. “We must
go, Siegmund,” she whispered. “All right,” he said, but still he did not move.
She stood up beside him, shook herself, and tried to get a breath of air. She
was dazzled blind by the sunshine. Siegmund lay in the bright light, with his
eyes closed, never moving. His face was inflamed, but fixed like a mask. Helena
waited, until the terror of the passing of the hour was too strong for her. She
lifted his hand, which lay swollen with heat on the sand, and she tried gently
to draw him. “We shall be too late,” she said in distress. He sighed and sat up,
looking out over the water. Helena could not bear to see him look so vacant and
expressionless. She put her arm round his neck, and pressed his head against her
skirt. Siegmund knew he was making it unbearable for her. Pulling himself
together, he bent his head from the sea, and said:

“Why, what time is it?”

He took out his watch, holding it in his hand. Helena still held his left hand,
and had one arm round his neck. “I can’t see the figures,” he said. “Everything
is dimmed, as if it were coming dark.”

“Yes,” replied Helena, in that reedy, painful tone of hers. “My eyes were the
same. It is the strong sunlight.”

“I can’t,” he repeated, and he was rather surprised—“I can’t see the time. Can
you?”

She stooped down and looked. “It is half past one,” she said. Siegmund hated her
voice as she spoke. There was still sufficient time to catch the train. He stood
up, moved inside his clothing, saying: “I feel almost stunned by the heat. I can
hardly see, and all my feeling in my body is dulled.”

“Yes,” answered Helena, “I am afraid it will do you harm.”

“At any rate,” he smiled as if sleepily, “I have had enough. If it’s too
much—what _is_ too much?”

They went unevenly over the sand, their eyes sun-dimmed. “We are going back—we
are going back!” the heart of Helena seemed to run hot, beating these words.
They climbed the cliff path toilsomely. Standing at the top, on the edge of the
grass, they looked down the cliffs at the beach and over the sea. The strand was
wide, forsaken by the sea, forlorn with rocks bleaching in the sun, and sand and
seaweed breathing off their painful scent upon the heat. The sea crept smaller,
farther away; the sky stood still. Siegmund and Helena looked hopelessly out on
their beautiful, incandescent world. They looked hopelessly at each other,
Siegmund’s mood was gentle and forbearing. He smiled faintly at Helena, then
turned, and, lifting his hand to his mouth in a kiss for the beauty he had
enjoyed, “_Addio_!” he said. He turned away, and, looking from Helena landwards,
he said, smiling peculiarly:

“It reminds me of Traviata—an ‘_Addio_’ at every verse-end.”

She smiled with her mouth in acknowledgement of his facetious irony; it jarred
on her. He was pricked again by her supercilious reserve. “_Addi-i-i-i-o, Addi-
i-i-o_!” he whistled between his teeth, hissing out the Italian’s passion-notes
in a way that made Helena clench her fists. “I suppose,” she said, swallowing,
and recovering her voice to check this discord—“I suppose we shall have a fairly
easy journey—Thursday.”

“I don’t know,” said Siegmund. “There will not be very many people,” she
insisted. “I think,” he said, in a very quiet voice, “you’d better let me go by
the South-Western from Portsmouth while you go on by the Brighton.”

“But why?” she exclaimed in astonishment. “I don’t want to sit looking at you
all the way,” he said. “But why should you?” she exclaimed. He laughed. “Indeed,
no!” she said. “We shall go together.”

“Very well,” he answered. They walked on in silence towards the village. As they
drew near the little post office, he said:

“I suppose I may as well wire them that I shall be home tonight.”

“You haven’t sent them any word?” she asked. He laughed. They came to the open
door of the little shop. He stood still, not entering. Helena wondered what he
was thinking. “Shall I?” he asked, meaning, should he wire to Beatrice. His
manner was rather peculiar. “Well, I should think so,” faltered Helena, turning
away to look at the postcards in the window. Siegmund entered the shop. It was
dark and cumbered with views, cheap china ornaments, and toys. He asked for a
telegraph form. “My God!” he said to himself bitterly as he took the pencil. He
could not sign the abbreviated name his wife used towards him. He scribbled his
surname, as he would have done to a stranger. As he watched the amiable, stout
woman counting up his words carefully, pointing with her finger, he felt sick
with irony. “That’s right,” she said, picking up the sixpence and taking the
form to the instrument. “What beautiful weather!” she continued. “It will be
making you sorry to leave us.”

“There goes my warrant,” thought Siegmund, watching the flimsy bit of paper
under the post-mistress’s heavy hand. “Yes—it is too bad, isn’t it,” he replied,
bowing and laughing to the woman. “It is, sir,” she answered pleasantly. “Good
morning.”

He came out of the shop still smiling, and when Helena turned from the postcards
to look at him, the lines of laughter remained over his face like a mask. She
glanced at his eyes for a sign; his facial expression told her nothing; his eyes
were just as inscrutable, which made her falter with dismay. “What is he
thinking of?” she asked herself. Her thoughts flashed back. “And why did he ask
me so peculiarly whether he should wire them at home?”

“Well,” said Siegmund, “are there any postcards?”

“None that I care to take,” she replied. “Perhaps you would like one of these?”

She pointed to some faded-looking cards which proved to be imaginary views of
Alum Bay done in variegated sand. Siegmund smiled. “I wonder if they dribbled
the sand on with a fine glass tube,” he said. “Or a brush,” said Helena. “She
does not understand,” said Siegmund to himself. “And whatever I do I must not
tell her. I should have thought she would understand.”

As he walked home beside her there mingled with his other feelings resentment
against her. Almost he hated her. XX

At first they had a carriage to themselves. They sat opposite each other with
averted faces, looking out of the windows and watching the houses, the downs
dead asleep in the sun, the embankments of the railway with exhausted hot
flowers go slowly past out of their reach. They felt as if they were being
dragged away like criminals. Unable to speak or think, they stared out of the
windows, Helena struggling in vain to keep back her tears, Siegmund labouring to
breathe normally. At Yarmouth the door was snatched open, and there was a
confusion of shouting and running; a swarm of humanity, clamouring, attached
itself at the carriage doorway, which was immediately blocked by a stout man who
heaved a leather bag in front of him as he cried in German that here was room
for all. Faces innumerable—hot, blue-eyed faces—strained to look over his
shoulders at the shocked girl and the amazed Siegmund. There entered eight
Germans into the second-class compartment, five men and three ladies. When at
last the luggage was stowed away they sank into the seats. The last man on
either side to be seated lowered himself carefully, like a wedge, between his
two neighbours. Siegmund watched the stout man, the one who had led the charge,
settling himself between his large lady and the small Helena. The latter crushed
herself against the side of the carriage. The German’s hips came down tight
against her. She strove to lessen herself against the window, to escape the
pressure of his flesh, whose heat was transmitted to her. The man squeezed in
the opposite direction. “I am afraid I press you,” he said, smiling in his
gentle, chivalric German fashion. Helena glanced swiftly at him. She liked his
grey eyes, she liked the agreeable intonation, and the pleasant sound of his
words. “Oh no,” she answered. “You do not crush me.”

Almost before she had finished the words she turned away to the window. The man
seemed to hesitate a moment, as if recovering himself from a slight rebuff,
before he could address his lady with the good-humoured remark in German: “Well,
and have we not managed it very nicely, eh?”

The whole party began to talk in German with great animation. They told each
other of the quaint ways of this or the other; they joked loudly over
“Billy”—this being a nickname discovered for the German Emperor—and what he
would be saying of the Czar’s trip; they questioned each other, and answered
each other concerning the places they were going to see, with great interest,
displaying admirable knowledge. They were pleased with everything; they extolled
things English. Helena’s stout neighbour, who, it seemed, was from Dresden,
began to tell anecdotes. He was a _raconteur_ of the naïve type: he talked with
face, hands, with his whole body. Now and again he would give little spurts in
his seat. After one of these he must have become aware of Helena—who felt as if
she were enveloped by a soft stove—struggling to escape his compression. He
stopped short, lifted his hat, and smiling beseechingly, said in his persuasive
way:

“I am sorry. I am sorry. I compress you!” He glanced round in perplexity,
seeking some escape or remedy. Finding none, he turned to her again, after
having squeezed hard against his lady to free Helena, and said:

“Forgive me, I am sorry.”

“You are forgiven,” replied Helena, suddenly smiling into his face with her rare
winsomeness. The whole party, attentive, relaxed into a smile at this. The good
humour was complete. “Thank you,” said the German gratefully. Helena turned
away. The talk began again like the popping of corn; the _raconteur_ resumed his
anecdote. Everybody was waiting to laugh. Helena rapidly wearied of trying to
follow the tale. Siegmund had made no attempt. He had watched, with the others,
the German’s apologies, and the sight of his lover’s face had moved him more
than he could tell. She had a peculiar, childish wistfulness at times, and with
this an intangible aloofness that pierced his heart. It seemed to him he should
never know her. There was a remoteness about her, an estrangement between her
and all natural daily things, as if she were of an unknown race that never can
tell its own story. This feeling always moved Siegmund’s pity to its deepest,
leaving him poignantly helpless. This same foreignness, revealed in other ways,
sometimes made him hate her. It was as if she would sacrifice him rather than
renounce her foreign birth. There was something in her he could never
understand, so that never, never could he say he was master of her as she was of
him the mistress. As she smiled and turned away from the German, mute,
uncomplaining, like a child wise in sorrow beyond its years, Siegmund’s
resentment against her suddenly took fire, and blazed him with sheer pain of
pity. She was very small. Her quiet ways, and sometimes her impetuous clinging
made her seem small; for she was very strong. But Siegmund saw her now, small,
quiet, uncomplaining, living for him who sat and looked at her. But what would
become of her when he had left her, when she was alone, little foreigner as she
was, in this world, which apologizes when it has done the hurt, too blind to see
beforehand? Helena would be left behind; death was no way for her. She could not
escape thus with him from this house of strangers which she called “life”. She
had to go on alone, like a foreigner who cannot learn the strange language.
“What will she do?” Siegmund asked himself, “when her loneliness comes upon her
like a horror, and she has no one to go to. She will come to the memory of me
for a while, and that will take her over till her strength is established. But
what then?”

Siegmund could find no answer. He tried to imagine her life. It would go on,
after his death, just in the same way, for a while, and then? He had not the
faintest knowledge of how she would develop. What would she do when she was
thirty-eight, and as old as himself? He could not conceive. Yet she would not
die, of that he was certain. Siegmund suddenly realized that he knew nothing of
her life, her real inner life. She was a book written in characters
unintelligible to him and to everybody. He was tortured with the problem of her
till it became acute, and he felt as if his heart would burst inside him. As a
boy he had experienced the same sort of feeling after wrestling for an hour with
a problem in Euclid, for he was capable of great concentration. He felt Helena
looking at him. Turning, he found her steady, unswerving eyes fixed on him, so
that he shrank confused from them. She smiled: by an instinctive movement she
made him know that she wanted him to hold her hand. He leaned forward and put
his hand over hers. She had peculiar hands, small, with a strange, delightful
silkiness. Often they were cool or cold; generally they lay unmoved within his
clasp, but then they were instinct with life, not inert. Sometimes he would feel
a peculiar jerking in his pulse, very much like electricity, when he held her
hand. Occasionally it was almost painful, and felt as if a little virtue were
passing out of his blood. But that he dismissed as nonsense. The Germans were
still rattling away, perspiring freely, wiping their faces with their
handkerchiefs as they laughed, moving inside their clothing, which was sticking
to their sides. Siegmund had not noticed them for some time, he was so much
absorbed. But Helena, though she sympathized with her fellow-passengers, was
tormented almost beyond endurance by the noise, the heat of her neighbour’s
body, the atmosphere of the crowded carriage, and her own emotion. The only
thing that could relieve her was the hand of Siegmund soothing her in its hold.
She looked at him with the same steadiness which made her eyes feel heavy upon
him, and made him shrink. She wanted his strength of nerve to support her, and
he submitted at once, his one aim being to give her out of himself whatever she
wanted. XXI

The tall white yachts in a throng were lounging off the roads of Ryde. It was
near the regatta time, so these proud creatures had flown loftily together, and
now flitted hither and thither among themselves, like a concourse of tall women,
footing the waves with superb touch. To Siegmund they were very beautiful, but
removed from him, as dancers crossing the window-lights are removed from the man
who looks up from the street. He saw the Solent and the world of glamour flying
gay as snow outside, where inside was only Siegmund, tired, dispirited, without
any joy. He and Helena had climbed among coils of rope on to the prow of their
steamer, so they could catch a little spray of speed on their faces to stimulate
them. The sea was very bright and crowded. White sails leaned slightly and filed
along the roads; two yachts with sails of amber floated, it seemed, without
motion, amid the eclipsed blue of the day; small boats with red and yellow flags
fluttered quickly, trailing the sea with colour; a pleasure steamer coming from
Cowes swung her soft stout way among the fleeting ships; high in the background
were men-of-war, a long line, each one threading tiny triangles of flags through
a sky dim with distance. “It is all very glad,” said Siegmund to himself, “but
it seems to be fanciful.”

He was out of it. Already he felt detached from life. He belonged to his
destination. It is always so: we have no share in the beauty that lies between
us and our goal. Helena watched with poignant sorrow all the agitation of colour
on the blue afternoon. “We must leave it; we must pass out of it,” she lamented,
over and over again. Each new charm she caught eagerly. “I like the steady
purpose of that brown-sailed tramp,” she said to herself, watching a laden
coaster making for Portsmouth. They were still among the small shipping of Ryde.
Siegmund and Helena, as they looked out, became aware of a small motor-launch
heading across their course towards a yacht whose tall masts were drawn clean on
the sky. The eager launch, its nose up as if to breathe, was racing over the
swell like a coursing dog. A lady, in white, and a lad with dark head and white
jersey were leaning in the bows; a gentleman was bending over some machinery in
the middle of the boat, while the sailor in the low stern was also stooping
forward attending to something. The steamer was sweeping onwards, huge above the
water; the dog of a boat was coursing straight across her track. The lady saw
the danger first. Stretching forward, she seized the arm of the lad and held him
firm, making no sound, but watching the forward menace of the looming steamer.
“Look!” cried Helena, catching hold of Siegmund. He was already watching.
Suddenly the steamer bell clanged. The gentleman looked up, with startled,
sunburned face; then he leaped to the stern. The launch veered. It and the
steamer closed together like a pair of scissors. The lady, still holding the
boy, looked up with an expressionless face at the high sweeping chisel of the
steamer’s bows; the husband stood rigid, staring ahead. No sound was to be heard
save the rustling of water under the bows. The scissors closed, the launch
skelped forward like a dog from in front of the traffic. It escaped by a yard or
two. Then, like a dog, it seemed to look round. The gentleman in the stern
glanced back quickly. He was a handsome, dark-haired man with dark eyes. His
face was as if carven out of oak, set and grey-brown. Then he looked to the
steering of his boat. No one had uttered a sound. From the tiny boat coursing
low on the water, not a sound, only tense waiting. The launch raced out of
danger towards the yacht. The gentleman, with a brief gesture, put his man in
charge again, whilst he himself went forward to the lady. He was a handsome man,
very proud in his movements; and she, in her bearing, was prouder still. She
received him almost with indifference. Helena turned to Siegmund. He took both
her hands and pressed them, whilst she looked at him with eyes blind with
emotion. She was white to the lips, and heaving like the buoy in the wake of the
steamer. The noise of life had suddenly been hushed, and each heart had heard
for a moment the noiselessness of death. How everyone was white and gasping!
They strove, on every hand, to fill the day with noise and the colour of life
again. “By Jove, that was a near thing!”

“Ah, that has made me feel bad!” said a woman. “A French yacht,” said somebody.
Helena was waiting for the voice of Siegmund. But he did not know what to say.
Confused, he repeated:

“That was a close shave.”

Helena clung to him, searching his face. She felt his difference from herself.
There was something in his experience that made him different, quiet, with a
peculiar expression as if he were pained. “Ah, dear Lord!” he was saying to
himself. “How bright and whole the day is for them! If God had suddenly put His
hand over the sun, and swallowed us up in a shadow, they could not have been
more startled. That man, with his fine, white-flannelled limbs and his dark
head, has no suspicion of the shadow that supports it all. Between the blueness
of the sea and the sky he passes easy as a gull, close to the fine white seamew
of his mate, amid red flowers of flags, and soft birds of ships, and slow-moving
monsters of steamboats. “For me the day is transparent and shrivelling. I can
see the darkness through its petals. But for him it is a fresh bell-flower, in
which he fumbles with delights like a bee. “For me, quivering in the interspaces
of the atmosphere, is the darkness the same that fills in my soul. I can see
death urging itself into life, the shadow supporting the substance. For my life
is burning an invisible flame. The glare of the light of myself, as I burn on
the fuel of death, is not enough to hide from me the source and the issue. For
what is a life but a flame that bursts off the surface of darkness, and tapers
into the darkness again? But the death that issues differs from the death that
was the source. At least, I shall enrich death with a potent shadow, if I do not
enrich life.”

“Wasn’t that woman fine!” said Helena. “So perfectly still,” he answered. “The
child realized nothing,” she said. Siegmund laughed, then leaned forward
impulsively to her. “I am always so sorry,” he said, “that the human race is
urged inevitably into a deeper and deeper realization of life.”

She looked at him, wondering what provoked such a remark. “I guess,” she said
slowly, after a while, “that the man, the sailor, will have a bad time. He was
abominably careless.”

“He was careful of something else just then,” said Siegmund, who hated to hear
her speak in cold condemnation. “He was attending to the machinery or
something.”

“That was scarcely his first business,” said she, rather sarcastic. Siegmund
looked at her. She seemed very hard in judgement—very blind. Sometimes his soul
surged against her in hatred. “Do you think the man _wanted_ to drown the boat?”
he asked. “He nearly succeeded,” she replied. There was antagonism between them.
Siegmund recognized in Helena the world sitting in judgement, and he hated it.
“But, after all,” he thought, I suppose it is the only way to get along, to
judge the event and not the person. I have a disease of sympathy, a vice of
exoneration.”

Nevertheless, he did not love Helena as a judge. He thought rather of the woman
in the boat. She was evidently one who watched the sources of life, saw it great
and impersonal. “Would the woman cry, or hug and kiss the boy when she got on
board?” he asked. “I rather think not. Why?” she replied. “I hope she didn’t,”
he said. Helena sat watching the water spurt back from the bows. She was very
much in love with Siegmund. He was suggestive; he stimulated her. But to her
mind he had not her own dark eyes of hesitation; he was swift and proud as the
wind. She never realized his helplessness. Siegmund was gathering strength from
the thought of that other woman’s courage. If she had so much restraint as not
to cry out, or alarm the boy, if she had so much grace not to complain to her
husband, surely he himself might refrain from revealing his own fear of Helena,
and from lamenting his hard fate. They sailed on past the chequered round
towers. The sea opened, and they looked out to eastward into the sea-space.
Siegmund wanted to flee. He yearned to escape down the open ways before him. Yet
he knew he would be carried on to London. He watched the sea-ways closing up.
The shore came round. The high old houses stood flat on the right hand. The
shore swept round in a sickle, reaping them into the harbour. There the old
_Victory_, gay with myriad pointed pennons, was harvested, saved for a trophy.
“It is a dreadful thing,” thought Siegmund, “to remain as a trophy when there is
nothing more to do.” He watched the landing-stages swooping nearer. There were
the trains drawn up in readiness. At the other end of the train was London. He
could scarcely bear to have Helena before him for another two hours. The
suspense of that protracted farewell, while he sat opposite her in the beating
train, would cost too much. He longed to be released from her. They had got
their luggage, and were standing at the foot of the ladder, in the heat of the
engines and the smell of hot oil, waiting for the crowd to pass on, so that they
might ascend and step off the ship on to the mainland. “Won’t you let me go by
the South-Western, and you by the Brighton?” asked Siegmund, hesitating,
repeating the morning’s question. Helena looked at him, knitting her brows with
misgiving and perplexity. “No,” she replied. “Let us go together.”

Siegmund followed her up the iron ladder to the quay. There was no great crowd
on the train. They easily found a second-class compartment without occupants. He
swung the luggage on the rack and sat down, facing Helena. “Now,” said he to
himself, “I wish I were alone.”

He wanted to think and prepare himself. Helena, who was thinking actively,
leaned forward to him to say:

“Shall I not go down to Cornwall?”

By her soothing willingness to do anything for him, Siegmund knew that she was
dogging him closely. He could not bear to have his anxiety protracted. “But you
have promised Louisa, have you not?” he replied. “Oh, well!” she said, in the
peculiar slighting tone she had when she wished to convey the unimportance of
affairs not touching him. “Then you must go,” he said. “But,” she began, with
harsh petulance, “I do not want to go down to Cornwall with _Louisa and
Olive_”—she accentuated the two names—“after _this_,” she added. “Then Louisa
will have no holiday—and you have promised,” he said gravely. Helena looked at
him. She saw he had decided that she should go. “Is my promise so _very_
important?” she asked. She glanced angrily at the three ladies who were
hesitating in the doorway. Nevertheless, the ladies entered, and seated
themselves at the opposite end of the carriage. Siegmund did not know whether he
were displeased or relieved by their intrusion. If they had stayed out, he might
have held Helena in his arms for still another hour. As it was, she could not
harass him with words. He tried not to look at her, but to think. The train at
last moved out of the station. As it passed through Portsmouth, Siegmund
remembered his coming down, on the Sunday. It seemed an indefinite age ago. He
was thankful that he sat on the side of the carriage opposite from the one he
had occupied five days before. The afternoon of the flawless sky was ripening
into evening. The chimneys and the sides of the houses of Portsmouth took on
that radiant appearance which transfigures the end of day in town. A rich bloom
of light appears on the surfaces of brick and stone. “It will go on,” thought
Siegmund, “being gay of an evening, for ever. And I shall miss it all!”

But as soon as the train moved into the gloom of the Town station, he began
again:

“Beatrice will be proud, and silent as steel when I get home. She will say
nothing, thank God—nor shall I. That will expedite matters: there will be no
interruptions…. “But we cannot continue together after this. Why should I
discuss reasons for and against? We cannot. She goes to a cottage in the
country. Already I have spoken of it to her. I allow her all I can of my money,
and on the rest I manage for myself in lodgings in London. Very good. “But when
I am comparatively free I cannot live alone. I shall want Helena; I shall
remember the children. If I have the one, I shall be damned by the thought of
the other. This bruise on my mind will never get better. Helena says she would
never come to me; but she would, out of pity for me. I know she would. “But
then, what then? Beatrice and the children in the country, and me not looking
after the children. Beatrice is thriftless. She would be in endless difficulty.
It would be a degradation to me. She would keep a red sore inflamed against me;
I should be a shameful thing in her mouth. Besides, there would go all her
strength. She would not make any efforts. ‘He has brought it on us,’ she would
say; ‘let him see what the result is.’ And things would go from bad to worse
with them. It would be a gangrene of shame. “And Helena—I should have nothing
but mortification. When she was asleep I could not look at her. She is such a
strange, incongruous creature. But I should be responsible for her. She believes
in me as if I had the power of God. What should I think of myself?”

Siegmund leaned with his head against the window, watching the country whirl
past, but seeing nothing. He thought imaginatively, and his imagination
destroyed him. He pictured Beatrice in the country. He sketched the
morning—breakfast haphazard at a late hour; the elder children rushing off
without food, miserable and untidy, the youngest bewildered under her swift,
indifferent preparations for school. He thought of Beatrice in the evening,
worried and irritable, her bills unpaid, the work undone, declaiming lamentably
against the cruelty of her husband, who had abandoned her to such a burden of
care while he took his pleasure elsewhere. This line exhausted or intolerable,
Siegmund switched off to the consideration of his own life in town. He would go
to America; the agreement was signed with the theatre manager. But America would
be only a brief shutting of the eyes and closing of the mouth. He would wait for
the home-coming to Helena, and she would wait for him. It was inevitable; then
would begin—what? He would never have enough money to keep Helena, even if he
managed to keep himself. Their meetings would then be occasional and
clandestine. Ah, it was intolerable! “If I were rich,” said Siegmund, “all would
be plain. I would give each of my children enough, and Beatrice, and we would go
away; but I am nearly forty; I have no genius; I shall never be rich,” Round and
round went his thoughts like oxen over a threshing floor, treading out the
grain. Gradually the chaff flew away; gradually the corn of conviction gathered
small and hard upon the floor. As he sat thinking, Helena leaned across to him
and laid her hand on his knee. “If I have made things more difficult,” she said,
her voice harsh with pain, “you will forgive me.”

He started. This was one of the cruel cuts of pain that love gives, filling the
eyes with blood. Siegmund stiffened himself; slowly he smiled, as he looked at
her childish, plaintive lips, and her large eyes haunted with pain. “Forgive
you?” he repeated. “Forgive you for five days of perfect happiness; the only
real happiness I have ever known!”

Helena tightened her fingers on his knee. She felt herself stinging with painful
joy; but one of the ladies was looking her curiously. She leaned back in her
place, and turned to watch at the shocks of corn strike swiftly, in long rows,
across her vision. Siegmund, also quivering, turned his face to the window,
where the rotation of the wide sea-flat helped the movement of his thought.
Helena had interrupted him. She had bewildered his thoughts from their hawking,
so that they struck here and there, wildly, among small, pitiful prey that was
useless, conclusions which only hindered the bringing home of the final
convictions. “What will she do?” cried Siegmund, “What will she do when I am
gone? What will become of her? Already she has no aim in life; then she will
have no object. Is it any good my going if I leave her behind? What an
inextricable knot this is! But what will she do?”

It was a question she had aroused before, a question which he could never
answer; indeed, it was not for him to answer. They wound through the pass of the
South Downs. As Siegmund, looking backward, saw the northern slope of the downs
swooping smoothly, in a great, broad bosom of sward, down to the body of the
land, he warmed with sudden love for the earth; there the great downs were,
naked like a breast, leaning kindly to him. The earth is always kind; it loves
us, and would foster us like a nurse. The downs were big and tender and simple.
Siegmund looked at the farm, folded in a hollow, and he wondered what fortunate
folk were there, nourished and quiet, hearing the vague roar of the train that
was carrying him home. Up towards Arundel the cornfields of red wheat were heavy
with gold. It was evening, when the green of the trees went out, leaving dark
shapes proud upon the sky; but the red wheat was forged in the sunset, hot and
magnificent. Siegmund almost gloated as he smelled the ripe corn, and opened his
eyes to its powerful radiation. For a moment he forgot everything, amid the
forging of red fields of gold in the smithy of the sunset. Like sparks, poppies
blew along the railway-banks, a crimson train. Siegmund waited, through the
meadows, for the next wheat-field. It came like the lifting of yellow-hot metal
out of the gloom of darkened grass-lands. Helena was reassured by the glamour of
evening over ripe Sussex. She breathed the land now and then, while she watched
the sky. The sunset was stately. The blue-eyed day, with great limbs, having
fought its victory and won, now mounted triumphant on its pyre, and with white
arms uplifted took the flames, which leaped like blood about its feet. The day
died nobly, so she thought. One gold cloud, as an encouragement tossed to her,
followed the train. “Surely that cloud is for us,” said she, as she watched it
anxiously. Dark trees brushed between it and her, while she waited in suspense.
It came, unswerving, from behind the trees. “I am sure it is for us,” she
repeated. A gladness came into her eyes. Still the cloud followed the train. She
leaned forward to Siegmund and pointed out the cloud to him. She was very eager
to give him a little of her faith. “It has come with us quite a long way.
Doesn’t it seem to you to be travelling with us? It is the golden hand; it is
the good omen.”

She then proceeded to tell him the legend from “Aylwin”. Siegmund listened, and
smiled. The sunset was handsome on his face. Helena was almost happy. “I am
right,” said he to himself. I am right in my conclusions, and Helena will manage
by herself afterwards. I am right; there is the hand to confirm it.”

The heavy train settled down to an easy, unbroken stroke, swinging like a
greyhound over the level northwards. All the time Siegmund was mechanically
thinking the well-known movement from the Valkyrie Ride, his whole self beating
to the rhythm. It seemed to him there was a certain grandeur in this flight, but
it hurt him with its heavy insistence of catastrophe. He was afraid; he had to
summon his courage to sit quiet. For a time he was reassured; he believed he was
going on towards the right end. He hunted through the country and the sky,
asking of everything, “Am I right? Am I right?” He did not mind what happened to
him, so long as he felt it was right. What he meant by “right” he did not
trouble to think, but the question remained. For a time he had been reassured;
then a dullness came over him, when his thoughts were stupid, and he merely
submitted to the rhythm of the train, which stamped him deeper and deeper with a
brand of catastrophe. The sun had gone down. Over the west was a gush of
brightness as the fountain of light bubbled lower. The stars, like specks of
froth from the foaming of the day, clung to the blue ceiling. Like spiders they
hung overhead, while the hosts of the gold atmosphere poured out of the hive by
the western low door. Soon the hive was empty, a hollow dome of purple, with
here and there on the floor a bright brushing of wings—a village; then,
overhead, the luminous star-spider began to run. “Ah, well!” thought Siegmund—he
was tired—“if one bee dies in a swarm, what is it, so long as the hive is all
right? Apart from the gold light, and the hum and the colour of day, what was I?
Nothing! Apart from these rushings out of the hive, along with swarm, into the
dark meadows of night, gathering God knows what, I was a pebble. Well, the day
will swarm in golden again, with colour on the wings of every bee, and humming
in each activity. The gold and the colour and sweet smell and the sound of life,
they exist, even if there is no bee; it only happens we see the iridescence on
the wings of a bee. It exists whether or not, bee or no bee. Since the
iridescence and the humming of life _are_ always, and since it was they who made
me, then I am not lost. At least, I do not care. If the spark goes out, the
essence of the fire is there in the darkness. What does it matter? Besides, I
_have_ burned bright; I have laid up a fine cell of honey somewhere—I wonder
where? We can never point to it; but it _is_ so—what does it matter, then!”

They had entered the north downs, and were running through Dorking towards
Leatherhead. Box Hill stood dark in the dusky sweetness of the night. Helena
remembered that here she and Siegmund had come for their first walk together.
She would like to come again. Presently she saw the quick stilettos of stars on
the small, baffled river; they ran between high embankments. Siegmund
recollected that these were covered with roses of Sharon—the large golden St
John’s wort of finest silk. He looked, and could just distinguish the full-
blown, delicate flowers, ignored by the stars. At last he had something to say
to Helena:

“Do you remember,” he asked, “the roses of Sharon all along here?”

“I do,” replied Helena, glad he spoke so brightly. “Weren’t they pretty?”

After a few moments of watching the bank, she said:

“Do you know, I have never gathered one? I think I should like to; I should like
to feel them, and they should have an orangy smell.”

He smiled, without answering. She glanced up at him, smiling brightly. “But
shall we come down here in the morning, and find some?” she asked. She put the
question timidly. “Would you care to?” she added. Siegmund darkened and frowned.
Here was the pain revived again. “No,” he said gently; “I think we had better
not.” Almost for the first time he did not make apologetic explanation. Helena
turned to the window, and remained, looking out at the spinning of the lights of
the towns without speaking, until they were near Sutton. Then she rose and
pinned on her hat, gathering her gloves and her basket. She was, in spite of
herself, slightly angry. Being quite ready to leave the train, she sat down to
wait for the station. Siegmund was aware that she was displeased, and again, for
the first time, he said to himself, “Ah, well, it must be so.”

She looked at him. He was sad, therefore she softened instantly. “At least,” she
said doubtfully, “I shall see you at the station.”

“At Waterloo?” he asked. “No, at Wimbledon,” she replied, in her metallic tone.
“But—” he began. “It will be the best way for us,” she interrupted, in the calm
tone of conviction. “Much better than crossing London from Victoria to
Waterloo.”

“Very well,” he replied. He looked up a train for her in his little time-table.
“You will get in Wimbledon 10.5—leave 10.40—leave Waterloo 11.30,” he said.
“Very good,” she answered. The brakes were grinding. They waited in a burning
suspense for the train to stop. “If only she will soon go!” thought Siegmund. It
was an intolerable minute. She rose; everything was a red blur. She stood before
him, pressing his hand; then he rose to give her the bag. As he leaned upon the
window-frame and she stood below on the platform, looking up at him, he could
scarcely breathe. “How long will it be?” he said to himself, looking at the open
carriage doors. He hated intensely the lady who could not get a porter to remove
her luggage; he could have killed her; he could have killed the dilatory guard.
At last the doors slammed and the whistle went. The train started imperceptibly
into motion. “Now I lose her,” said Siegmund. She looked up at him; her face was
white and dismal. “Good-bye, then!” she said, and she turned away. Siegmund went
back to his seat. He was relieved, but he trembled with sickness. We are all
glad when intense moments are done with; but why did she fling round in that
manner, stopping the keen note short; what would she do? XXII

Siegmund went up to Victoria. He was in no hurry to get down to Wimbledon.
London was warm and exhausted after the hot day, but this peculiar lukewarmness
was not unpleasant to him. He chose to walk from Victoria to Waterloo. The
streets were like polished gun-metal glistened over with gold. The taxi-cabs,
the wild cats of the town, swept over the gleaming floor swiftly, soon lessening
in the distance, as if scornful of the other clumsy-footed traffic. He heard the
merry click-clock of the swinging hansoms, then the excited whirring of the
motor-buses as they charged full-tilt heavily down the road, their hearts, as it
seemed, beating with trepidation; they drew up with a sigh of relief by the
kerb, and stood there panting—great, nervous, clumsy things. Siegmund was always
amused by the headlong, floundering career of the buses. He was pleased with
this scampering of the traffic; anything for distraction. He was glad Helena was
not with him, for the streets would have irritated her with their coarse noise.
She would stand for a long time to watch the rabbits pop and hobble along on the
common at night; but the tearing along of the taxis and the charge of a great
motor-bus was painful to her. “Discords,” she said, “after the trees and sea.”
She liked the glistening of the streets; it seemed a fine alloy of gold laid
down for pavement, such pavement as drew near to the pure gold streets of
Heaven; but this noise could not be endured near any wonderland. Siegmund did
not mind it; it drummed out his own thoughts. He watched the gleaming magic of
the road, raced over with shadows, project itself far before him into the night.
He watched the people. Soldiers, belted with scarlet, went jauntily on in front.
There was a peculiar charm in their movement. There was a soft vividness of life
in their carriage; it reminded Siegmund of the soft swaying and lapping of a
poised candle-flame. The women went blithely alongside. Occasionally, in
passing, one glanced at him; then, in spite of himself, he smiled; he knew not
why. The women glanced at him with approval, for he was ruddy; besides, he had
that carelessness and abstraction of despair. The eyes of the women said, “You
are comely, you are lovable,” and Siegmund smiled. When the street opened, at
Westminster, he noticed the city sky, a lovely deep purple, and the lamps in the
square steaming out a vapour of grey-gold light. “It is a wonderful night,” he
said to himself. “There are not two such in a year.”

He went forward to the Embankment, with a feeling of elation in his heart. This
purple and gold-grey world, with the fluttering flame-warmth of soldiers and the
quick brightness of women, like lights that clip sharply in a draught, was a
revelation to him. As he leaned upon the Embankment parapet the wonder did not
fade, but rather increased. The trams, one after another, floated loftily over
the bridge. They went like great burning bees in an endless file into a hive,
past those which were drifting dreamily out, while below, on the black,
distorted water, golden serpents flashed and twisted to and fro. “Ah!” said
Siegmund to himself; “it is far too wonderful for me. Here, as well as by the
sea, the night is gorgeous and uncouth. Whatever happens, the world is
wonderful.”

So he went on amid all the vast miracle of movement in the city night, the
swirling of water to the sea, the gradual sweep of the stars, the floating of
many lofty, luminous cars through the bridged darkness, like an army of angels
filing past on one of God’s campaigns, the purring haste of the taxis, the
slightly dancing shadows of people. Siegmund went on slowly, like a slow bullet
winging into the heart of life. He did not lose this sense of wonder, not in the
train, nor as he walked home in the moonless dark. When he closed the door
behind him and hung up his hat he frowned. He did not think definitely of
anything, but his frown meant to him: “Now for the beginning of Hell!”

He went towards the dining-room, where the light was, and the uneasy murmur. The
clock, with its deprecating, suave chime, was striking ten, Siegmund opened the
door of the room. Beatrice was sewing, and did not raise her head. Frank, a
tall, thin lad of eighteen, was bent over a book. He did not look up. Vera had
her fingers thrust in among her hair, and continued to read the magazine that
lay on the table before her. Siegmund looked at them all. They gave no sign to
show they were aware of his entry; there was only that unnatural tenseness of
people who cover their agitation. He glanced round to see where he should go.
His wicker arm-chair remained by the fireplace; his slippers were standing under
the sideboard, as he had left them. Siegmund sat down in the creaking chair; he
began to feel sick and tired. “I suppose the children are in bed,” he said. His
wife sewed on as if she had not heard him; his daughter noisily turned over a
leaf and continued to read, as if she were pleasantly interested and had known
no interruption. Siegmund waited, with his slipper dangling from his hand,
looking from one to another. “They’ve been gone two hours,” said Frank at last,
still without raising his eyes from his book. His tone was contemptuous, his
voice was jarring, not yet having developed a man’s fullness. Siegmund put on
his slipper, and began to unlace the other boot. The slurring of the lace
through the holes and the snacking of the tag seemed unnecessarily loud. It
annoyed his wife. She took a breath to speak, then refrained, feeling suddenly
her daughter’s scornful restraint upon her. Siegmund rested his arms upon his
knees, and sat leaning forward, looking into the barren fireplace, which was
littered with paper, and orange-peel, and a banana-skin. “Do you want any
supper?” asked Beatrice, and the sudden harshness of her voice startled him into
looking at her. She had her face averted, refusing to see him. Siegmund’s heart
went down with weariness and despair at the sight of her. “Aren’t _you_ having
any?” he asked. The table was not laid. Beatrice’s work-basket, a little wicker
fruit-skep, overflowed scissors, and pins, and scraps of holland, and reels of
cotton on the green serge cloth. Vera leaned both her elbows on the table.
Instead of replying to him, Beatrice went to the sideboard. She took out a
table-cloth, pushing her sewing litter aside, and spread the cloth over one end
of the table. Vera gave her magazine a little knock with her hand. “Have you
read this tale of a French convent school in here, Mother?” she asked. “In
where?”

In this month’s _Nash’s_.”

“No,” replied Beatrice. “What time have I for reading, much less for anything
else?”

“You should think more of yourself, and a little less of other people, then,”
said Vera, with a sneer at the “other people”. She rose. “Let me do this. You
sit down; you are tired, Mother,” she said. Her mother, without replying, went
out to the kitchen. Vera followed her. Frank, left alone with his father, moved
uneasily, and bent his thin shoulders lower over his book. Siegmund remained
with his arms on his knees, looking into the grate. From the kitchen came the
chinking of crockery, and soon the smell of coffee. All the time Vera was heard
chatting with affected brightness to her mother, addressing her in fond tones,
using all her wits to recall bright little incidents to retail to her. Beatrice
answered rarely, and then with utmost brevity. Presently Vera came in with the
tray. She put down a cup of coffee, a plate with boiled ham, pink and thin, such
as is bought from a grocer, and some bread-and-butter. Then she sat down,
noisily turning over the leaves of her magazine. Frank glanced at the table; it
was laid solely for his father. He looked at the bread and the meat, but
restrained himself, and went on reading, or pretended to do so. Beatrice came in
with the small cruet; it was conspicuously bright. Everything was correct: knife
and fork, spoon, cruet, all perfectly clean, the crockery fine, the bread and
butter thin—in fact, it was just as it would have been for a perfect stranger.
This scrupulous neatness, in a household so slovenly and easy-going, where it
was an established tradition that something should be forgotten or wrong,
impressed Siegmund. Beatrice put the serving knife and fork by the little dish
of ham, saw that all was proper, then went and sat down. Her face showed no
emotion; it was calm and proud. She began to sew. “What do you say, Mother?”
said Vera, as if resuming a conversation. “Shall it be Hampton Court or Richmond
on Sunday?”

“I say, as I said before,” replied Beatrice: “I cannot afford to go out.”

“But you must begin, my dear, and Sunday shall see the beginning. _Dîtes donc_!”

“There are other things to think of,” said Beatrice. “Now, _maman, nous avons
changé tout cela_! We are going out—a jolly little razzle!” Vera, who was rather
handsome, lifted up her face and smiled at her mother gaily. “I am afraid there
will be no _razzle_”—Beatrice accented the word, smiling slightly—“for me. You
are slangy, Vera.”

“_Un doux argot, ma mère_. You look tired.”

Beatrice glanced at the clock. “I will go to bed when I have cleared the table,”
she said. Siegmund winced. He was still sitting with his head bent down, looking
in the grate. Vera went on to say something more. Presently Frank looked up at
the table, and remarked in his grating voice:

“There’s your supper, Father.”

The women stopped and looked round at this. Siegmund bent his head lower. Vera
resumed her talk. It died out, and there was silence. Siegmund was hungry. “Oh,
good Lord, good Lord! bread of humiliation tonight!” he said to himself before
he could muster courage to rise and go to the table. He seemed to be shrinking
inwards. The women glanced swiftly at him and away from him as his chair creaked
and he got up. Frank was watching from under his eyebrows. Siegmund went through
the ordeal of eating and drinking in presence of his family. If he had not been
hungry, he could not have done it, despite the fact that he was content to
receive humiliation this night. He swallowed the coffee with effort. When he had
finished he sat irresolute for some time; then he arose and went to the door.
“Good night!” he said. Nobody made any reply. Frank merely stirred in his chair.
Siegmund shut the door and went. There was absolute silence in the room till
they heard him turn on the tap in the bathroom; then Beatrice began to breathe
spasmodically, catching her breath as if she would sob. But she restrained
herself. The faces of the two children set hard with hate. “He is not worth the
flicking of your little finger, Mother,” said Vera. Beatrice moved about with
pitiful, groping hands, collecting her sewing and her cottons. “At any rate,
he’s come back red enough,” said Frank, in his grating tone of contempt. “He’s
like boiled salmon.”

Beatrice did not answer anything. Frank rose, and stood with his back to the
grate, in his father’s characteristic attitude. “He _would_ come slinking back
in a funk!” he said, with a young man’s sneer. Stretching forward, he put a
piece of ham between two pieces of bread, and began to eat the sandwich in large
bites. Vera came to the table at this, and began to make herself a more dainty
sandwich. Frank watched her with jealous eyes. “There is a little more ham, if
you’d like it,” said Beatrice to him. “I kept you some.”

“All right, Ma,” he replied. Fetch it in.”

Beatrice went out to the kitchen. “And bring the bread and butter, too, will
you?” called Vera after her. “The damned coward! Ain’t he a rotten funker?” said
Frank, _sotto voce_, while his mother was out of the room. Vera did not reply,
but she seemed tacitly to agree. They petted their mother, while she waited on
them. At length Frank yawned. He fidgeted a moment or two, then he went over to
his mother, and, putting his hand on her arm—the feel of his mother’s round arm
under the black silk sleeve made his tears rise—he said, more gratingly than
ever:

“Ne’er mind, Ma; we’ll be all right to you.” Then he bent and kissed her. “Good
night, Mother,” he said awkwardly, and he went out of the room. Beatrice was
crying. XXIII

“I shall never re-establish myself,” said Siegmund as he closed behind him the
dining-room door and went upstairs in the dark. “I am a family criminal.
Beatrice might come round, but the children’s insolent judgement is too much.
And I am like a dog that creeps round the house from which it escaped with joy.
I have nowhere else to go. Why did I come back? But I am sleepy. I will not
bother tonight.”

He went into the bathroom and washed himself. Everything he did gave him a
grateful sense of pleasure, notwithstanding the misery of his position. He
dipped his arms deeper into the cold water, that he might feel the delight of it
a little farther. His neck he swilled time after time, and it seemed to him he
laughed with pleasure as the water caught him and fell away. The towel reminded
him how sore were his forehead and his neck, blistered both to a state of
rawness by the sun. He touched them very cautiously to dry them, wincing, and
smiling at his own childish touch-and-shrink. Though his bedroom was very dark,
he did not light the gas. Instead, he stepped out into the small balcony. His
shirt was open at the neck and wrists. He pulled it farther apart, baring his
chest to the deliciously soft night. He stood looking out at the darkness for
some time. The night was as yet moonless, but luminous with a certain atmosphere
of light. The stars were small. Near at hand, large shapes of trees rose up.
Farther, lamps like little mushroom groups shone amid an undergrowth of
darkness. There was a vague hoarse noise filling the sky, like the whispering in
a shell, and this breathing of the summer night occasionally swelled into a
restless sigh as a train roared across the distance. “What a big night!” thought
Siegmund. “The night gathers everything into a oneness. I wonder what is in it.”

He leaned forward over the balcony, trying to catch something out of the night.
He felt his soul like tendrils stretched out anxiously to grasp a hold. What
could he hold to in this great, hoarse breathing night? A star fell. It seemed
to burst into sight just across his eyes with a yellow flash. He looked up,
unable to make up his mind whether he had seen it or not. There was no gap in
the sky. “It is a good sign—a shooting star,” he said to himself. “It is a good
sign for me. I know I am right. That was my sign.”

Having assured himself, he stepped indoors, unpacked his bag, and was soon in
bed. “This is a good bed,” he said. “And the sheets are very fresh.”

He lay for a little while with his head bending forwards, looking from his
pillow out at the stars, then he went to sleep. At half past six in the morning
he suddenly opened his eyes. “What is it?” he asked, and almost without
interruption answered: “Well, I’ve got to go through it.”

His sleep had shaped him perfect premonition, which, like a dream, he forgot
when he awoke. Only this naïve question and answer betrayed what had taken place
in his sleep. Immediately he awoke this subordinate knowledge vanished. Another
fine day was striding in triumphant. The first thing Siegmund did was to salute
the morning, because of its brightness. The second thing was to call to mind the
aspect of that bay in the Isle of Wight. “What would it just be like now?” said
he to himself. He had to give his heart some justification for the peculiar pain
left in it from his sleep activity, so he began poignantly to long for the place
which had been his during the last mornings. He pictured the garden with roses
and nasturtiums; he remembered the sunny way down the shore, and all the expanse
of sea hung softly between the tall white cliffs. “It is impossible it is gone!”
he cried to himself. “It can’t be gone. I looked forward to it as if it never
would come. It can’t be gone now. Helena is not lost to me, surely.” Then he
began a long pining for the departed beauty of his life. He turned the jewel of
memory, and facet by facet it wounded him with its brilliant loveliness. This
pain, though it was keen, was half pleasure. Presently he heard his wife
stirring. She opened the door of the room next to his, and he heard her:

“Frank, it’s a quarter to eight. You _will_ be late.”

“All right, Mother. Why didn’t you call me sooner?” grumbled the lad. “I didn’t
wake myself. I didn’t go to sleep till morning, and then I slept.”

She went downstairs. Siegmund listened for his son to get out of bed. The
minutes passed. “The young donkey, why doesn’t he get out?” said Siegmund
angrily to himself. He turned over, pressing himself upon the bed in anger and
humiliation, because now he had no authority to call to his son and keep him to
his duty. Siegmund waited, writhing with anger, shame, and anxiety. When the
suave, velvety “Pan-n-n! pan-n-n-n!” of the clock was heard striking, Frank
stepped with a thud on to the floor. He could be heard dressing in clumsy haste.
Beatrice called from the bottom of the stairs:

“Do you want any hot water?”

“You know there isn’t time for me to shave now,” answered her son, lifting his
voice to a kind of broken falsetto. The scent of the cooking of bacon filled the
house. Siegmund heard his second daughter, Marjory, aged nine, talking to Vera,
who occupied the same room with her. The child was evidently questioning, and
the elder girl answered briefly. There was a lull in the household noises,
broken suddenly by Marjory, shouting from the top of the stairs:

“Mam!” She wailed. “Mam!” Still Beatrice did not hear her. “Mam! Mamma!”
Beatrice was in the scullery. “Mamma-a!” The child was getting impatient. She
lifted her voice and shouted: “Mam? Mamma!” Still no answer. “Mam-mee-e!” she
squealed. Siegmund could hardly contain himself. “Why don’t you go down and
ask?” Vera called crossly from the bedroom. And at the same moment Beatrice
answered, also crossly: “What do you want?”

“Where’s my stockings?” cried the child at the top of her voice. “Why do you ask
me? Are they down here?” replied her mother. “What are you shouting for?”

The child plodded downstairs. Directly she returned, and as she passed into
Vera’s room, she grumbled: “And now they’re not mended.”

Siegmund heard a sound that made his heart beat. It was the crackling of the
sides of the crib, as Gwen, his little girl of five, climbed out. She was silent
for a space. He imagined her sitting on the white rug and pulling on her
stockings. Then there came the quick little thud of her feet as she went
downstairs. “Mam,” Siegmund heard her say as she went down the hall, “has dad
come?”

The answer and the child’s further talk were lost in the distance of the
kitchen. The small, anxious question, and the quick thudding of Gwen’s feet,
made Siegmund lie still with torture. He wanted to hear no more. He lay
shrinking within himself. It seemed that his soul was sensitive to madness. He
felt that he could not, come what might, get up and meet them all. The front
door banged, and he heard Frank’s hasty call: “Good-bye!” Evidently the lad was
in an ill-humour. Siegmund listened for the sound of the train; it seemed an
age; the boy would catch it. Then the water from the wash-hand bowl in the
bathroom ran loudly out. That, he suggested, was Vera, who was evidently not
going up to town. At the thought of this, Siegmund almost hated her. He listened
for her to go downstairs. It was nine o’clock. The footsteps of Beatrice came
upstairs. She put something down in the bathroom—his hot water. Siegmund
listened intently for her to come to his door. Would she speak? She approached
hurriedly, knocked, and waited. Siegmund, startled, for the moment, could not
answer. She knocked loudly. “All right,” said he. Then she went downstairs. He
lay probing and torturing himself for another half-hour, till Vera’s voice said
coldly, beneath his window outside:

“You should clear away, then. We don’t want the breakfast things on the table
for a week.”

Siegmund’s heart set hard. He rose, with a shut mouth, and went across to the
bathroom. There he started. The quaint figure of Gwen stood at the bowl, her
back was towards him; she was sponging her face gingerly. Her hair, all blowsed
from the pillow, was tied in a stiff little pigtail, standing out from her
slender, childish neck. Her arms were bare to the shoulder. She wore a bodiced
petticoat of pink flannelette, which hardly reached her knees. Siegmund felt
slightly amused to see her stout little calves planted so firmly close together.
She carefully sponged her cheeks, her pursed-up mouth, and her neck, soaping her
hair, but not her ears. Then, very deliberately, she squeezed out the sponge and
proceeded to wipe away the soap. For some reason or other she glanced round. Her
startled eyes met his. She, too, had beautiful dark blue eyes. She stood, with
the sponge at her neck, looking full at him. Siegmund felt himself shrinking.
The child’s look was steady, calm, inscrutable. “Hello!” said her father. “Are
you here!”

The child, without altering her expression in the slightest, turned her back on
him, and continued wiping her neck. She dropped the sponge in the water and took
the towel from off the side of the bath. Then she turned to look again at
Siegmund, who stood in his pyjamas before her, his mouth shut hard, but his eyes
shrinking and tender. She seemed to be trying to discover something in him.
“Have you washed your ears?” he said gaily. She paid no heed to this, except
that he noticed her face now wore a slight constrained smile as she looked at
him. She was shy. Still she continued to regard him curiously. “There is some
chocolate on my dressing-table,” he said. “Where have you been to?” she asked
suddenly. “To the seaside,” he answered, smiling. “To Brighton?” she asked. Her
tone was still condemning. “Much farther than that,” he replied. “To Worthing?”
she asked. “Farther—in a steamer,” he replied. “But who did you go with?” asked
the child. “Why, I went all by myself,” he answered. “Twuly?” she asked. “Weally
and twuly,” he answered, laughing. “Couldn’t you take me?” she asked. “I will
next time,” he replied. The child still looked at him, unsatisfied. “But what
did you go for?” she asked, goading him suspiciously. “To see the sea and the
ships and the fighting ships with cannons—”

“You _might_ have taken me,” said the child reproachfully. “Yes, I ought to have
done, oughtn’t I?” he said, as if regretful. Gwen still looked full at him. “You
_are_ red,” she said. He glanced quickly in the glass, and replied:

“That is the sun. Hasn’t it been hot?”

“Mm! It made my nose all peel. Vera said she would scrape me like a new potato.”
The child laughed and turned shyly away. “Come here,” said Siegmund. “I believe
you’ve got a tooth out, haven’t you?”

He was very cautious and gentle. The child drew back. He hesitated, and she drew
away from him, unwilling. “Come and let me look,” he repeated. She drew farther
away, and the same constrained smile appeared on her face, shy, suspicious,
condemning. “Aren’t you going to get your chocolate?” he asked, as the child
hesitated in the doorway. She glanced into his room, and answered:

“I’ve got to go to mam and have my hair done.”

Her awkwardness and her lack of compliance insulted him. She went downstairs
without going into his room. Siegmund, rebuffed by the only one in the house
from whom he might have expected friendship, proceeded slowly to shave, feeling
sick at heart. He was a long time over his toilet. When he stripped himself for
the bath, it seemed to him he could smell the sea. He bent his head and licked
his shoulder. It tasted decidedly salt. “A pity to wash it off,” he said. As he
got up dripping from the cold bath, he felt for the moment exhilarated. He
rubbed himself smooth. Glancing down at himself, he thought: “I look young. I
look as young as twenty-six.”

He turned to the mirror. There he saw himself a mature, complete man of forty,
with grave years of experience on his countenance. “I used to think that, when I
was forty,” he said to himself, “I should find everything straight as the nose
on my face, walking through my affairs as easily as you like. Now I am no more
sure of myself, have no more confidence than a boy of twenty. What can I do? It
seems to me a man needs a mother all his life. I don’t feel much like a lord of
creation.”

Having arrived at this cynicism, Siegmund prepared to go downstairs. His
sensitiveness had passed off; his nerves had become callous. When he was dressed
he went down to the kitchen without hesitation. He was indifferent to his wife
and children. No one spoke to him as he sat to the table. That was as he liked
it; he wished for nothing to touch him. He ate his breakfast alone, while his
wife bustled about upstairs and Vera bustled about in the dining-room. Then he
retired to the solitude of the drawing-room. As a reaction against his poetic
activity, he felt as if he were gradually becoming more stupid and blind. He
remarked nothing, not even the extravagant bowl of grasses placed where he would
not have allowed it—on his piano; nor his fiddle, laid cruelly on the cold,
polished floor near the window. He merely sat down in an arm-chair, and felt
sick. All his unnatural excitement, all the poetic stimulation of the past few
days, had vanished. He felt flaccid, while his life struggled slowly through
him. After an intoxication of passion and love, and beauty, and of sunshine, he
was prostrate. Like a plant that blossoms gorgeously and madly, he had wasted
the tissue of his strength, so that now his life struggled in a clogged and
broken channel. Siegmund sat with his head between his hands, leaning upon the
table. He would have been stupidly quiescent in his feeling of loathing and
sickness had not an intense irritability in all his nerves tormented him into
consciousness. “I suppose this is the result of the sun—a sort of sunstroke,” he
said, realizing an intolerable stiffness of his brain, a stunned condition in
his head. “This is hideous!” he said. His arms were quivering with intense
irritation. He exerted all his will to stop them, and then the hot irritability
commenced in his belly. Siegmund fidgeted in his chair without changing his
position. He had not the energy to get up and move about. He fidgeted like an
insect pinned down. The door opened. He felt violently startled; yet there was
no movement perceptible. Vera entered, ostensibly for an autograph-album into
which she was going to copy a drawing from the _London Opinion_, really to see
what her father was doing. He did not move a muscle. He only longed intensely
for his daughter to go out of the room, so that he could let go. Vera went out
of the drawing-room humming to herself. Apparently she had not even glanced at
her father. In reality, she had observed him closely. “He is sitting with his
head in his hands,” she said to her mother. Beatrice replied: “I’m glad he’s
nothing else to do.”

“I should think he’s pitying himself,” said Vera. “He’s a good one at it,”
answered Beatrice. Gwen came forward and took hold of her mother’s skirt,
looking up anxiously. “What is he doing, Mam?” she asked. “Nothing,” replied her
mother—“nothing; only sitting in the drawing-room.”

“But what has he _been_ doing?” persisted the anxious child. “Nothing—nothing
that I can tell _you_. He’s only spoilt all our lives.”

The little girl stood regarding her mother In the greatest distress and
perplexity. “But what will he do, Mam?” she asked. “Nothing. Don’t bother. Run
and play with Marjory now. Do you want a nice plum?”

She took a yellow plum from the table. Gwen accepted it without a word. She was
too much perplexed. “What do you say?” asked her mother. “Thank you,” replied
the child, turning away. Siegmund sighed with relief when he was again left
alone. He twisted in his chair, and sighed again, trying to drive out the
intolerable clawing irritability from his belly. “Ah, this is horrible!” he
said. He stiffened his muscles to quieten them. “I’ve never been like this
before. What is the matter?” he asked himself. But the question died out
immediately. It seemed useless and sickening to try and answer it. He began to
cast about for an alleviation. If he could only do something, or have something
he wanted, it would be better. “What do I want?” he asked himself, and he
anxiously strove to find this out. Everything he suggested to himself made him
sicken with weariness or distaste: the seaside, a foreign land, a fresh life
that he had often dreamed of, farming in Canada. “I should be just the same
there,” he answered himself. “Just the same sickening feeling there that I want
nothing.”

“Helena!” he suggested to himself, trembling. But he only felt a deeper horror.
The thought of her made him shrink convulsively. “I can’t endure this,” he said.
If this is the case, I had better be dead. To have no want, no desire—that is
death, to begin with.”

He rested awhile after this. The idea of death alone seemed entertaining. Then,
“Is there really nothing I could turn to?” he asked himself. To him, in that
state of soul, it seemed there was not. “Helena!” he suggested again,
appealingly testing himself. “Ah, no!” he cried, drawing sharply back, as from
an approaching touch upon a raw place. He groaned slightly as he breathed, with
a horrid weight of nausea. There was a fumbling upon the door-knob. Siegmund did
not start. He merely pulled himself together. Gwen pushed open the door, and
stood holding on to the door-knob looking at him. “Dad, Mam says dinner’s
ready,” she announced. Siegmund did not reply. The child waited, at a loss for
some moments, before she repeated, in a hesitating tone:

“Dinner’s ready.”

“All right,” said Siegmund. “Go away.”

The little girl returned to the kitchen with tears in her eyes, very
crestfallen. “What did he say?” asked Beatrice. “He shouted at me,” replied the
little one, breaking into tears. Beatrice flushed. Tears came into her own eyes.
She took the child in her arms and pressed her to her, kissing her forehead.
“Did he?” she said very tenderly. “Never mind, then, dearie—never mind.”

The tears in her mother’s voice made the child sob bitterly. Vera and Marjory
sat silent at table. The steak and mashed potatoes steamed and grew cold. XXIV

When Helena arrived home on the Thursday evening she found everything repulsive.
All the odours of the sordid street through which she must pass hung about the
pavement, having crept out in the heat. The house was bare and narrow. She
remembered children sometimes to have brought her moths shut up in matchboxes.
As she knocked at the door she felt like a numbed moth which a boy is pushing
off its leaf-rest into his box. The door was opened by her mother. She was a
woman whose sunken mouth, ruddy cheeks, and quick brown eyes gave her the
appearance of a bird which walks about pecking suddenly here and there. As
Helena reluctantly entered the mother drew herself up, and immediately relaxed,
seeming to peck forwards as she said:

“Well?”

“Well, here we are!” replied the daughter in a matter-of-fact tone. Her mother
was inclined to be affectionate, therefore she became proportionately cold. “So
I see,” exclaimed Mrs Verden, tossing her head in a peculiar jocular manner.
“And what sort of a time have you had?”

“Oh, very good,” replied Helena, still more coolly. “H’m!”

Mrs Verden looked keenly at her daughter. She recognized the peculiar sulky,
childish look she knew so well, therefore, making an effort, she forbore to
question. “You look well,” she said. Helena smiled ironically. “And are you
ready for your supper?” she asked, in the playful, affectionate manner she had
assumed. “If the supper is ready I will have it,” replied her daughter. “Well,
it’s not ready.” The mother shut tight her sunken mouth, and regarded her
daughter with playful challenge. “Because,” she continued, “I didn’t known when
you were coming.” She gave a jerk with her arm, like an orator who utters the
incontrovertible. “But,” she added, after a tedious dramatic pause, “I can soon
have it ready. What will you have?”

“The full list of your capacious larder,” replied Helena. Mrs Verden looked at
her again, and hesitated. “Will you have cocoa or lemonade?” she asked, coming
to the point curtly. “Lemonade,” said Helena. Presently Mr Verden entered—a
small, white-bearded man with a gentle voice. “Oh, so you are back, Nellie!” he
said, in his quiet, reserved manner. “As you see, Pater,” she answered. “H’m!”
he murmured, and he moved about at his accounts. Neither of her parents dared to
question Helena. They moved about her on tiptoe, stealthily. Yet neither
subserved her. Her father’s quiet “H’m!” her mother’s curt question, made her
draw inwards like a snail which can never retreat far enough from condemning
eyes. She made a careless pretence of eating. She was like a child which has
done wrong, and will not be punished, but will be left with the humiliating
smear of offence upon it. There was a quick, light palpitating of the knocker.
Mrs Verden went to the door. “Has she come?”

And there were hasty steps along the passage. Louisa entered. She flung herself
upon Helena and kissed her. “How long have you been in?” she asked, in a voice
trembling with affection. “Ten minutes,” replied Helena. “Why didn’t you send me
the time of the train, so that I could come and meet you?” Louisa reproached
her. “Why?” drawled Helena. Louisa looked at her friend without speaking. She
was deeply hurt by this sarcasm. As soon as possible Helena went upstairs.
Louisa stayed with her that night. On the next day they were going to Cornwall
together for their usual midsummer holiday. They were to be accompanied by a
third girl—a minor friend of Louisa, a slight acquaintance of Helena. During the
night neither of the two friends slept much. Helena made confidences to Louisa,
who brooded on these, on the romance and tragedy which enveloped the girl she
loved so dearly. Meanwhile, Helena’s thoughts went round and round, tethered
amid the five days by the sea, pulling forwards as far as the morrow’s meeting
with Siegmund, but reaching no further. Friday was an intolerable day of
silence, broken by little tender advances and playful, affectionate sallies on
the part of the mother, all of which were rapidly repulsed. The father said
nothing, and avoided his daughter with his eyes. In his humble reserve there was
a dignity which made his disapproval far more difficult to bear than the
repeated flagrant questionings of the mother’s eyes. But the day wore on. Helena
pretended to read, and sat thinking. She played her violin a little,
mechanically. She went out into the town, and wandered about. At last the night
fell. “Well,” said Helena to her mother, “I suppose I’d better pack.”

“Haven’t you done it?” cried Mrs Verden, exaggerating her surprise. “You’ll
never have it done. I’d better help you. What times does the train go?”

Helena smiled. “Ten minutes to ten.”

Her mother glanced at the clock. It was only half-past eight. There was ample
time for everything. “Nevertheless, you’d better look sharp,” Mrs Verden said.
Helena turned away, weary of this exaggeration. “I’ll come with you to the
station,” suggested Mrs Verden. “I’ll see the last of you. We shan’t see much of
you just now.”

Helena turned round in surprise. “Oh, I wouldn’t bother,” she said, fearing to
make her disapproval too evident. “Yes—I will—I’ll see you off.”

Mrs Verden’s animation and indulgence were remarkable. Usually she was curt and
undemonstrative. On occasions like these, however, when she was reminded of the
ideal relations between mother and daughter, she played the part of the
affectionate parent, much to the general distress. Helena lit a candle and went
to her bedroom. She quickly packed her dress-basket. As she stood before the
mirror to put on her hat, her eyes, gazing heavily, met her heavy eyes in the
mirror. She glanced away swiftly as if she had been burned. “How stupid I look!”
she said to herself. “And Siegmund, how is he, I wonder?”

She wondered how Siegmund had passed the day, what had happened to him, how he
felt, how he looked. She thought of him protectively. Having strapped her
basket, she carried it downstairs. Her mother was ready, with a white lace scarf
round her neck. After a short time Louisa came in. She dropped her basket in the
passage, and then sank into a chair. “I don’t want to go, Nell,” she said, after
a few moments of silence. “Why, how is that?” asked Helena, not surprised, but
condescending, as to a child. “Oh, I don’t know; I’m tired,” said the other
petulantly. “Of course you are. What do you expect, after a day like this?” said
Helena. “And rushing about packing,” exclaimed Mrs Verden, still in an
exaggerated manner, this time scolding playfully. “Oh, I don’t know. I don’t
think I want to go, dear,” repeated Louisa dejectedly. “Well, it is time we set
out,” replied Helena, rising. “Will you carry the basket or the violin, Mater?”

Louisa rose, and with a forlorn expression took up her light luggage. The west
opposite the door was smouldering with sunset. Darkness is only smoke that hangs
suffocatingly over the low red heat of the sunken day. Such was Helena’s longed-
for night. The tramcar was crowded. In one corner Olive, the third friend, rose
excitedly to greet them. Helena sat mute, while the car swung through the
yellow, stale lights of a third-rate street of shops. She heard Olive remarking
on her sunburned face and arms; she became aware of the renewed inflammation in
her blistered arms; she heard her own curious voice answering. Everything was in
a maze. To the beat of the car, while the yellow blur of the shops passed over
her eyes, she repeated: “Two hundred and forty miles—two hundred and forty
miles.”

XXV

Siegmund passed the afternoon in a sort of stupor. At tea-time Beatrice, who had
until then kept herself in restraint, gave way to an outburst of angry hysteria.
“When does your engagement at the Comedy Theatre commence?” she had asked him
coldly. He knew she was wondering about money. “Tomorrow—if ever,” he had
answered. She was aware that he hated the work. For some reason or other her
anger flashed out like sudden lightning at his “if ever”. “What do you think you
_can_ do?” she cried. “For I think you have done enough. We can’t do as we like
altogether—indeed, indeed we cannot. You have had your fling, haven’t you? You
have had your fling, and you want to keep on. But there’s more than one person
in the world. Remember that. But there are your children, let me remind you.
Whose are they? You talk about shirking the engagement, but who is going to be
responsible for your children, do you think?”

“I said nothing about shirking the engagement,” replied Siegmund, very coldly.
“No, there was no need to say. I know what it means. You sit there sulking all
day. What do you think _I_ do? I have to see to the children, I have to work and
slave, I go on from day to day. I tell you _I’ll_ stop, I tell you _I’ll_ do as
I like. _I’ll_ go as well. No, I wouldn’t be such a coward, you know that. You
know _I_ wouldn’t leave little children—to the workhouse or anything. They’re my
children; they mightn’t be yours.”

“There is no need for this,” said Siegmund contemptuously. The pressure in his
temples was excruciating, and he felt loathsomely sick. Beatrice’s dark eyes
flashed with rage. “Isn’t there!” she cried. “Oh, isn’t there? No, there is need
for a great deal more. I don’t know what you think I am. How much farther do you
think you can go? No, you don’t like reminding of us. You sit moping, sulking,
because you have to come back to your own children. I wonder how much you think
I shall stand? What do you think I am, to put up with it? What do you think I
am? Am I a servant to eat out of your hand?”

“Be quiet!” shouted Siegmund. “Don’t I know what you are? Listen to yourself!”

Beatrice was suddenly silenced. It was the stillness of white-hot wrath. Even
Siegmund was glad to hear her voice again. She spoke low and trembling. “You
coward—you miserable coward! It is I, is it, who am wrong? It is I who am to
blame, is it? You miserable thing! I have no doubt you know what I am.”

Siegmund looked up at her as her words died off. She looked back at him with
dark eyes loathing his cowed, wretched animosity. His eyes were bloodshot and
furtive, his mouth was drawn back in a half-grin of hate and misery. She was
goading him, in his darkness whither he had withdrawn himself like a sick dog,
to die or recover as his strength should prove. She tortured him till his
sickness was swallowed by anger, which glared redly at her as he pushed back his
chair to rise. He trembled too much, however. His chin dropped again on his
chest. Beatrice sat down in her place, hearing footsteps. She was shuddering
slightly, and her eyes were fixed. Vera entered with the two children. All three
immediately, as if they found themselves confronted by something threatening,
stood arrested. Vera tackled the situation. “Is the table ready to be cleared
yet?” she asked in an unpleasant tone. Her father’s cup was half emptied. He had
come to tea late, after the others had left the table. Evidently he had not
finished, but he made no reply, neither did Beatrice. Vera glanced disgustedly
at her father. Gwen sidled up to her mother, and tried to break the tension.
“Mam, there was a lady had a dog, and it ran into a shop, and it licked a sheep,
Mam, what was hanging up.”

Beatrice sat fixed, and paid not the slightest attention. The child looked up at
her, waited, then continued softly. “Mam, there was a lady had a dog—”

“Don’t bother!” snapped Vera sharply. The child looked, wondering and resentful,
at her sister. Vera was taking the things from the table, snatching them, and
thrusting them on the tray. Gwen’s eyes rested a moment or two on the bent head
of her father; then deliberately she turned again to her mother, and repeated in
her softest and most persuasive tones:

“Mam, I saw a dog, and it ran in a butcher’s shop and licked a piece of meat.
Mam, Mam!”

There was no answer. Gwen went forward and put her hand on her mother’s knee.
“Mam!” she pleaded timidly. No response. “Mam!” she whispered. She was
desperate. She stood on tiptoe, and pulled with little hands at her mother’s
breast. “Mam!” she whispered shrilly. Her mother, with an effort of self-denial,
put off her investment of tragedy, and, laying her arm round the child’s
shoulders, drew her close. Gwen was somewhat reassured, but not satisfied. With
an earnest face upturned to the impassive countenance of her mother, she began
to whisper, sibilant, coaxing, pleading. “Mam, there was a lady, she had a dog—”

Vera turned sharply to stop this whispering, which was too much for her nerves,
but the mother forestalled her. Taking the child in her arms, she averted her
face, put her cheek against the baby cheek, and let the tears run freely. Gwen
was too much distressed to cry. The tears gathered very slowly in her eyes, and
fell without her having moved a muscle in her face. Vera remained in the
scullery, weeping tears of rage, and pity, and shame into the towel. The only
sound in the room was the occasional sharp breathing of Beatrice. Siegmund sat
without the trace of a movement, almost without breathing. His head was ducked
low; he dared never lift it, he dared give no sign of his presence. Presently
Beatrice put down the child, and went to join Vera in the scullery. There came
the low sound of women’s talking—an angry, ominous sound. Gwen followed her
mother. Her little voice could be heard cautiously asking:

“Mam, is dad cross—is he? What did he do?”

“Don’t bother!” snapped Vera. “You _are_ a little nuisance! Here, take this into
the dining-room, and don’t drop it.”

The child did not obey. She stood looking from her mother to her sister. The
latter pushed a dish into her hand. “Go along,” she said, gently thrusting the
child forth. Gwen departed. She hesitated in the kitchen. Her father still
remained unmoved. The child wished to go to him, to speak to him, but she was
afraid. She crossed the kitchen slowly, hugging the dish; then she came slowly
back, hesitating. She sidled into the kitchen; she crept round the table inch by
inch, drawing nearer her father. At about a yard from the chair she stopped. He,
from under his bent brows, could see her small feet in brown slippers, nearly
kicked through at the toes, waiting and moving nervously near him. He pulled
himself together, as a man does who watches the surgeon’s lancet suspended over
his wound. Would the child speak to him? Would she touch him with her small
hands? He held his breath, and, it seemed, held his heart from beating. What he
should do he did not know. He waited in a daze of suspense. The child shifted
from one foot to another. He could just see the edge of her white-frilled
drawers. He wanted, above all things, to take her in his arms, to have something
against which to hide his face. Yet he was afraid. Often, when all the world was
hostile, he had found her full of love, he had hidden his face against her, she
had gone to sleep in his arms, she had been like a piece of apple-blossom in his
arms. If she should come to him now—his heart halted again in suspense—he knew
not what he would do. It would open, perhaps, the tumour of his sickness. He was
quivering too fast with suspense to know what he feared, or wanted, or hoped.
“Gwen!” called Vera, wondering why she did not return. “Gwen!”

“Yes,” answered the child, and slowly Siegmund saw her feet lifted, hesitate,
move, then turn away. She had gone. His excitement sank rapidly, and the
sickness returned stronger, more horrible and wearying than ever. For a moment
it was so bad that he was afraid of losing consciousness. He recovered slightly,
pulled himself up, and went upstairs. His fists were tightly clenched, his
fingers closed over his thumbs, which were pressed bloodless. He lay down on the
bed. For two hours he lay in a dazed condition resembling sleep. At the end of
that time the knowledge that he had to meet Helena was actively at work—an
activity quite apart from his will or his consciousness, jogging and pulling him
awake. At eight o’clock he sat up. A cramped pain in his thumbs made him wonder.
He looked at them, and mechanically shut them again under his fingers into the
position they sought after two hours of similar constraint. Siegmund opened his
hands again, smiling. “It is said to be the sign of a weak, deceitful
character,” he said to himself. His head was peculiarly numbed; at the back it
felt heavy, as if weighted with lead. He could think only one detached sentence
at intervals. Between-whiles there was a blank, grey sleep or swoon. “I have got
to go and meet Helena at Wimbledon,” he said to himself, and instantly he felt a
peculiar joy, as if he had laughed somewhere. “But I must be getting ready. I
can’t disappoint her,” said Siegmund. The idea of Helena woke a craving for rest
in him. If he should say to her, “Do not go away from me; come with me
somewhere,” then he might lie down somewhere beside her, and she might put her
hands on his head. If she could hold his head in her hands—for she had fine,
silken hands that adjusted themselves with a rare pressure, wrapping his
weakness up in life—then his head would gradually grow healed, and he could
rest. This was the one thing that remained for his restoration—that she should
with long, unwearying gentleness put him to rest. He longed for it utterly—for
the hands and the restfulness of Helena. “But it is no good,” he said, staring
like a drunken man from sleep. “What time is it?”

It was ten minutes to nine. She would be in Wimbledon by 10.10. It was time he
should be getting ready. Yet he remained sitting on the bed. “I am forgetting
again,” he said. “But I do not want to go. What is the good? I have only to tie
a mask on for the meeting. It is too much.”

He waited and waited; his head dropped forward in a sort of sleep. Suddenly he
started awake. The back of his head hurt severely. “Goodness,” he said, “it’s
getting quite dark!”

It was twenty minutes to ten. He went bewildered into the bathroom to wash in
cold water and bring back his senses. His hands were sore, and his face blazed
with sun inflammation. He made himself neat as usual. It was ten minutes to ten.
He would be very late. It was practically dark, though these bright days were
endless. He wondered whether the children were in bed. It was too late, however,
to wonder. Siegmund hurried downstairs and took his hat. He was walking down the
path when the door was snatched open behind him, and Vera ran out crying:

“Are you going out? Where are you going?”

Siegmund stood still and looked at her. “She is frightened,” he said to himself,
smiling ironically. “I am only going a walk. I have to go to Wimbledon. I shall
not be very long.”

“Wimbledon, at this time!” said Vera sharply, full of suspicion. “Yes, I am
late. I shall be back in an hour.”

He was sorry for her. She knew he gave her an honourable promise. “You need not
keep us sitting up,” she said. He did not answer, but hurried to the station.
XXVI

Helena, Louisa, and Olive climbed the steps to go to the South-Western platform.
They were laden with dress-baskets, umbrellas, and little packages. Olive and
Louisa, at least, were in high spirits. Olive stopped before the indicator. “The
next train for Waterloo,” she announced, in her contralto voice, “is 10.30. It
is now 10.12.”

“We go by the 10.40; it is a better train,” said Helena. Olive turned to her
with a heavy-arch manner. “Very well, dear. There is a parting to be got
through, I am told. We sympathize, dear, but we regret it. Starting for a
holiday is always a prolonged agony. But I am strong to endure it.”

“You look it. You look as if you could tackle a bull,” cried Louisa, skittish.
“My dear Louisa,” rang out Olive’s contralto, “don’t judge me by appearances.
You’re sure to be taken in. With me it’s a case of

“‘Oh, the gladness of her gladness when she’s sad, And the sadness of her
sadness when she’s glad!’”

She looked round to see the effect of this. Helena, expected to say something,
chimed in sarcastically:

“‘They are nothing to her madness—’”

“When she’s going for a holiday, dear,” cried Olive. “Oh, go on being mad,”
cried Louisa. “What, do you like it? I thought you’d be thanking Heaven that
sanity was given me in large doses.”

“And holidays in small,” laughed Louisa. “Good! No, I like your madness, if you
call it such. You are always so serious.”

“‘It’s ill talking of halters in the house of the hanged,’ dear,” boomed Olive.
She looked from side to side. She felt triumphant. Helena smiled, acknowledging
the sarcasm. “But,” said Louisa, smiling anxiously, “I don’t quite see it.
What’s the point?”

“Well, to be explicit, dear,” replied Olive, “it is hardly safe to accuse me of
sadness and seriousness in _this_ trio.”

Louisa laughed and shook herself. “Come to think of it, it isn’t,” she said.
Helena sighed, and walked down the platform. Her heart was beating thickly; she
could hardly breathe. The station lamps hung low, so they made a ceiling of heat
and dusty light. She suffocated under them. For a moment she beat with hysteria,
feeling, as most of us feel when sick on a hot summer night, as if she must
certainly go crazed, smothered under the grey, woolly blanket of heat. Siegmund
was late. It was already twenty-five minutes past ten. She went towards the
booking-office. At that moment Siegmund came on to the platform. “Here I am!” he
said. “Where is Louisa?”

Helena pointed to the seat without answering. She was looking at Siegmund. He
was distracted by the excitement of the moment, so she could not read him.
“Olive is there, too,” she explained. Siegmund stood still, straining his eyes
to see the two women seated amidst pale wicker dress-baskets and dark rugs. The
stranger made things more complex. “Does she—your other friend—does she know?”
he asked. “She knows nothing,” replied Helena in a low tone, as she led him
forward to be introduced. “How do you do?” replied Olive in most mellow
contralto. “Behold the dauntless three, with their traps! You will see us forth
on our perils?”

“I will, since I may not do more,” replied Siegmund, smiling, continuing: “And
how is Sister Louisa?”

“She is very well, thank you. It is _her_ turn now,” cried Louisa, vindictive,
triumphant. There was always a faint animosity in her bearing towards Siegmund.
He understood, and smiled at her enmity, for the two were really good friends.
“It is your turn now,” he repeated, smiling, and he turned away. He and Helena
walked down the platform. “How did you find things at home?” he asked her. “Oh,
as usual,” she replied indifferently. “And you?”

“Just the same,” he answered. He thought for a moment or two, then added: “The
children are happier without me.”

“Oh, you mustn’t say that kind of thing protested Helena miserably. “It’s not
true.”

“It’s all right, dear,” he answered. “So long as they are happy, it’s all
right.” After a pause he added: “But I feel pretty bad tonight.”

Helena’s hand tightened on his arm. He had reached the