Produced by Suzanne Shell, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net

MESSENGERS OF EVIL

BEING A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE LURES AND DEVICES OF FANTOMAS

THE FANTOMAS DETECTIVE NOVELS

BY PIERRE SOUVESTRE AND MARCEL ALLAIN

AUTHORS OF "FANTOMAS," "THE EXPLOITS OF JUVE," ETC. NEW YORK BRENTANO'S 1917

COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY BRENTANO'S

CONTENTS

I. THE DRAMA OF THE RUE NORVINS

II. THOMERY'S TWO LOVES

III. UNEXPECTED COMPLICATIONS

IV. A SURPRISING ITINERARY

V. MOTHER TOULOUCHE AND CRANAJOUR

VI. IN THE OPPOSITE SENSE

VII. PEARLS AND DIAMONDS

VIII. END OF THE BALL

IX. FINGER PRINTS

X. IDENTITY OF A NAVVY

XI. AN AUDACIOUS THEFT

XII. INVESTIGATIONS

XIII. RUE RAFFET

XIV. SOMEONE TELEPHONED

XV. VAGUE SUSPICIONS

XVI. DISCUSSIONS

XVII. AN ARREST

XVIII. AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRUNK

XIX. CRIMINAL OR VICTIM? XX. UNDER THE HOODED MASK

XXI. IN A PRISON VAN

XXII. AN EXECUTION

XXIII. FROM VAUGIRARD TO MONTMARTRE

XXIV. AT SAINT LAZARE

XXV. A MOUSE TRAP

XXVI. IN THE TRAP

XXVII. THE IMPRINT

XXVIII. COURAGE

MESSENGERS OF EVIL

I

THE DRAMA OF THE RUE NORVINS

On Monday, April 4th, 19--, the evening paper _La Capitale_ published the
following article on its first page:--

A drama, over the motives of which there is a bewildering host of conjectures,
was unfolded this morning on the heights of Montmartre. The Baroness de Vibray,
well known in the Parisian world and among artists, whose generous patroness she
was, has been found dead in the studio of the ceramic painter, Jacques Dollon.
The young painter, rendered completely helpless by a soporific, lay stretched
out beside her when the crime was discovered. We say 'crime' designedly,
because, when the preliminary medical examination was completed, it was clear
that the death of the Baroness de Vibray was due to the absorption of some
poison. The painter, Jacques Dollon, whom the enlightened attentions of Doctor
Mayran had drawn from his condition of torpor, underwent a short examination
from the superintendent of police, in the course of which he made remarks of so
suspicious a nature that the examining magistrate put him under arrest then and
there. At police headquarters they are absolutely dumb regarding this strange
affair. Nevertheless, the personal investigation undertaken by us throws a
little light on what is already called: _The Drama of the Rue Norvins_. _The
Discovery of the Crime_

This morning, about seven o'clock, Madame Beju, a housekeeper in the service of
the painter, Jacques Dollon, who, with his sister, Mademoiselle Elizabeth
Dollon, occupied lodge number six, in the Close of the rue Norvins, was on the
ground-floor of the house, attending to her customary duties. She had been on
the premises about half an hour, and, so far, had not noticed anything abnormal;
however, astonished at not hearing any movements on the floor above, for the
painter generally rose pretty early, Madame Beju decided to go upstairs and wake
her master, who would be vexed at having let himself sleep so late. She had to
pass through the studio to reach Monsieur Jacques Dollon's bedroom. No sooner
had she raised the door curtain of the studio than she recoiled, horrorstruck!
Disorder reigned in the studio: a startling disorder! Pieces of furniture
displaced, some of them overturned, showed that something extraordinary had
happened there. In the middle of the room, on the floor, lay the inanimate form
of a person whom Madame Beju knew well, for she had seen her at the painter's
house many a time--the Baroness de Vibray. Not far from her, buried in a large
arm-chair, motionless, giving no sign of life, was Monsieur Jacques Dollon! When
the good woman saw the rigid attitude of these two persons, she realised that
she was in the presence of a tragedy. Stirred to the depths, she redescended the
stairs, calling for help: shortly afterwards, the entire Close was in a state of
ferment: house porters, neighbours, male and female, crowded round Madame Beju,
endeavouring to understand her disconnected account of the terrifying spectacle
she had come face to face with but a minute before. Sudden death, suicide, crime
--all were plausible suppositions. The more audacious of these gossip-mongers
had ventured as far as the studio door; from that standpoint, a rapid glance
round enabled them to get a clear idea of the truth of the housekeeper's
statements: they returned to give a confirmation of them to the inquisitive and
increasing crowd in the principal avenue of the Close. 'The police! The police
must be informed!' cried the Close portress. Whilst this woman, with
considerable presence of mind, and aided by Madame Beju, exerted herself to keep
out the people of the neighbourhood who had got wind of the tragedy, two men had
set off to seek the police. _Lodge Number 6_

On the summit of Montmartre is the rue Norvins. In shape it resembles a donkey's
back, and at one particular spot it hugs the accentuated curve of the Butte. The
Close of the rue Norvins is situated at number 47. It is separated from the
street by a strong iron gate, the porter's lodge being at the side. The Close
consists of a series of little dwellings, separated by wooden railings, up which
climbing plants grow. Fine trees encircle these abodes with so thick a curtain
of leafage that the inhabitants might think themselves buried in the depths of
the country. Lodge Number 6 is even more isolated than the others. It consists
of a ground floor and a first floor, with an immense studio attached. Three
years ago, Number 6 was leased to Monsieur Jacques Dollon, then a student at the
Fine Arts School. It has been continuously occupied by the tenant and his
sister, Miss Elizabeth Dollon, who has kept house for her brother. For the last
fortnight the painter has been alone: his sister, who had gone to Switzerland to
convalesce after a long illness, was expected back that same day, or the day
following. The reputation of the two young people is considered by their
neighbours to be beyond criticism. The artist has led a regular and hard-working
life: last year the Salon accorded him a medal of the second class. His sister,
an affable and unassuming girl, seemed always much attached to her brother. In
that very Bohemian neighbourhood she is highly thought of as a girl of the most
estimable character. The Baroness de Vibray visited them frequently, and her
motor-car used to attract attention in that high, remote suburb--the wilds of
Montmartre. The old lady liked to dress in rather showy colours; she was
considered eccentric, but was also known to be good and generous. She took a
particular interest in the Dollons, whose family, so it was said, she had known
in Provence. Jacques Dollon and his sister highly valued their intimacy with the
Baroness de Vibray, who was known all over Paris as a patroness of artists and
the arts. _First Verifications_

Already slander and imagination between them had concocted the wildest stories,
when Monsieur Agram, the eminent police superintendent of the Clignancourt
Quarter, appeared at the entrance to the Close. Accompanied by his secretary, he
at once entered Number 6, charging the two policemen, who were assisting him, on
no account to allow anyone to enter, excepting the doctor, whom he had at once
sent for. He requested the portress to hold herself at his disposal in the
garden, and made Madame Beju accompany him to the studio. Barely twenty minutes
had elapsed since the housekeeper had been terror-struck by the dreadful
spectacle which had met her eyes there. When she entered with the superintendent
of police nothing had been altered. Madame de Vibray, horribly pale, her eyes
closed, her lips violet-hued, lay stretched on the floor: her body had assumed
the rigidity of a corpse. That of Jacques Dollon, huddled in an arm-chair, was
in a state of immobility. Monsieur Agram at once noticed long, intersecting
streaks on the floor, such as might have been traced by heavy furniture dragged
over the waxed boards of the flooring. A pungent medicinal odour caught the
throats of the visitors: Madame Beju was about to open a window: the
superintendent stopped her:

'Let things remain as they are for the present,' was his order. After casting an
observant eye round the room he questioned the housekeeper:

'Is this state of disorder usual?' 'Never in this world, sir!' declared the good
woman. 'Monsieur Dollon and his sister are very steady, very regular in their
habits, especially the young lady. It is true that she has been absent for
nearly a month, but her brother has often been left alone, and he has always
insisted on his studio being kept in good order.' 'Did Monsieur Dollon have many
visitors?' 'Very seldom, monsieur. Sometimes his neighbours would come in; and
then there was that poor lady lying there so deathly pale that it makes me ill
to look at her....'

_Jacques Dollon lives_

The conversation was interrupted by the arrival of the doctor employed in
connection with relief for the poor. The superintendent of police pointed out to
this Dr. Mayran the two inanimate figures. A glance of the doctor's trained eye
sufficed to show him that Madame de Vibray had been dead for some time.
Approaching Jacques Dollon, Dr. Mayran examined him attentively:

'Will you help me to lift him on to a bed or a table?' he asked. 'It seems to me
that this one is not dead.' 'His bedroom is next to this!' cried Madame Beju.
'Oh, heavens above! If only the poor young man would recover!' Silently the
doctor, aided by the superintendent and a policeman, transported young Dollon
into the next room. 'Air!' cried the doctor, 'give him air! Open all the
windows! It seems to me a case of suspended animation! There is partial
suffocation. This will probably yield to energetic treatment.' Whilst good
Madame Beju, whose legs were shaking under her, was carrying out the doctor's
orders, the superintendent of police kept watch to see that nothing was touched.
The doctor's attention was concentrated on Jacques Dollon. Monsieur Agram was
searching for some indication which might throw light on the drama. So far he
had been unable to formulate any hypothesis. Should the moribund painter return
to consciousness, the explanation he could give would certainly clear up the
situation. At this point in the superintendent's cogitations, the doctor called
out:

'He lives! He lives! Bring me a glass of water!' Jacques Dollon was returning to
consciousness! Slowly, painfully, his features contracting as at the remembrance
of a horrible nightmare, the young man stretched his limbs, opened his eyes: he
turned a dull gaze on those about him, a gaze which became one of stupefaction
when he perceived these unknown faces gathered round his bed. His eyes fell on
his housekeeper. He murmured:

'Mme ... Be-ju ... je...,' and fell back into unconsciousness. 'Is he dead?'
whispered Monsieur Agram. The doctor smiled:

'Be reassured, monsieur: he lives; but he finds it terribly difficult to wake
up. He has certainly swallowed some powerful narcotic and is still under its
influence; but its effects will soon pass off now.' The good doctor spoke the
truth. In a short time Jacques Dollon, making a violent effort, sat up. Casting
scared and bewildered glances about him, he cried:

'Who are you? What do you want of me?... Ah, the ruffians! The bandits!' 'There
is nothing to fear, monsieur. I am simply the doctor they have called in to
attend to you! Be calm!... You must recover your senses, and tell us what has
happened!' Jacques Dollon pressed his hands to his forehead, as though in pain:

'How heavy my head is!' he muttered. 'What has happened to me?... Let me see!...
Wait.... Ah ... yes ... that's it!' At a sign from the doctor, the
superintendent had stationed himself beside the bed, behind the young painter.
Keeping a finger on his patient's pulse, the doctor asked him, in a fatherly
fashion, to tell him all about it. 'It is like this,' replied Jacques Dollon....
'Yesterday evening I was sitting in my arm-chair reading. It was getting late. I
had been working hard.... I was tired.... All of a sudden I was surrounded by
masked men, clothed in long black garments: they flung themselves on me. Before
I could make a movement I was gagged, bound with cords.... I felt something
pointed driven into my leg--into my arm.... Then an overpowering drowsiness
overcame me, the strangest visions passed before my eyes; I lost consciousness
rapidly.... I wanted to move, to cry out ... in vain ... there was no strength
in me ... powerless ... and that's all!' 'Is there nothing more?' asked the
doctor. After a minute's reflection Jacques answered:

'That is all.' He now seemed fully awake. He moved: the movement was evidently
painful: 'It hurts,' he said, instinctively putting his hand on his left thigh.
'Let us see what is wrong,' said the doctor, and was preparing to examine the
place when a voice from the studio called:

'Monsieur!' It was Monsieur Agram's secretary. The magistrate left his post by
the bed and went into the studio. 'Monsieur,' said the secretary, 'I have just
found this paper under the chair in which Monsieur Dollon was: will you acquaint
yourself with its contents?' The magistrate seized the paper: it was a letter,
couched in the following terms:

_Dear Madame,_

_If you do not fear to climb the heights of Montmartre some      evening, will
you come to see the painted pottery I am preparing      for the Salon: you will
be welcome, and will confer on us a great      pleasure. I say 'us,' because I
have excellent news of Elizabeth,      who is returning shortly: perhaps she
will be here to receive you      with me._

_I am your respectful and devoted_      _Jacques Dollon._

The magistrate was frowning as he handed back the letter to his secretary,
saying: 'Keep it carefully.' Then he went into the bedroom, where the doctor was
talking to the invalid. The doctor turned to Monsieur Agram:

'Monsieur Dollon has just asked me who you are: I did not think I ought to hide
from him that you are a superintendent of police, monsieur.' 'Ah!' cried Jacques
Dollon. 'Can you help me to discover what happened to me last night?' 'You have
just told us yourself, monsieur,' replied the magistrate.... 'But have you
nothing further to tell us? Can you not recollect whether or no you had a
visitor before the arrival of the men who attacked you?' 'Why, no, monsieur, no
one called.' The doctor here intervened:

'The pain in the leg, Monsieur Dollon complained of, need not cause any anxiety.
It is a very slight superficial wound. A slight swelling above the broken skin
possibly indicates an intra-muscular puncture, which might have been made by
someone unaccustomed to such operations, for it is a clumsy performance. It is a
queer business!...' Monsieur Agram, who had been steadily observing Jacques
Dollon, persisted:

'Is there not a gap, monsieur, in your recollections of what occurred?... Were
you quite alone yesterday evening? Were you not expecting anyone?... Are you
certain that you did not have a visitor? Did not someone pay you a visit--
someone you had asked to come and see you?' Jacques Dollon opened his eyes--eyes
of stupefaction--and stared at the superintendent:

'No, monsieur.' 'It is that----' went on Monsieur Agram. Then stopping short,
and drawing the doctor aside, he asked:

'Do you consider him in a fit state to bear a severe moral shock?... A
confrontation?' The doctor glanced at his patient:

'He appears to me to be quite himself again: you can act as you see fit,
monsieur.' Jacques Dollon, astonished at this confabulation, and vaguely uneasy,
was, in fact, able to get up without help. 'Be good enough to go into your
studio, monsieur,' said the magistrate. Jacques Dollon complied without a word.
No sooner did he cross the threshold than he recoiled, terror-struck. He was
shaking from head to foot; his lips were quivering; every feature expressed
horrified shrinking from the spectacle confronting him. 'The--the--the Baroness
de Vibray!' he barely articulated: 'how can it be possible?' The superintendent
of police did not lose a single movement made by the young painter, keeping a
lynx-eyed watch on every expression that flitted across his countenance. He
said:

'It certainly is the Baroness de Vibray, dead--assassinated, no doubt. How do
you explain that?' 'But,' retorted Jacques Dollon, who appeared overwhelmed: 'I
do not know! I do not understand!' The magistrate replied:

'Yet, did you not invite her to your studio? Had you not asked her to come some
evening soon? Had you not certain pieces of painted pottery to show her?' 'That
is so,' confessed the painter: 'but I was not aware.... I did not know....' He
seemed about to faint. The doctor made him sit down in the chair where he had
been found unconscious. Whilst he was recovering, Monsieur Agram continued his
investigations. He opened a little cupboard, in which were several poisonous
powders: this was shown by the writing on the flasks containing them. He spoke
to the doctor, taking care that Jacques Dollon should not overhear him:

'Did you not say that this woman's death is due to poison?' 'It certainly looks
like it.... A post-mortem will ...'

_The Arrest_

Interrupting the doctor, Monsieur Agram went up to Jacques Dollon:

'In the exercise of your profession, monsieur, do you not make use of various
poisons, of which you have a reserve supply here?' 'That is so,' confirmed
Jacques Dollon, in a faint voice: 'But it is a very long time since I employed
any of them.' 'Very good, monsieur.' Monsieur Agram now made Madame Beju leave
the room. He asked her to transmit an order to his policemen: they were to drive
back the crowd. Soon a cab brought by a constable entered the Close, and drew up
before the door of Number 6. Jacques Dollon, supported by two people, descended
and entered the cab. Immediately a rumour spread that he had been arrested. This
rumour was correct. _Our Inquiry--Silence at Police Headquarters--Probable
Motives of      the Crime_

Such are the details referring to this strange affair, which we have been able
to procure from those who were present. But the motives which determined the
arrest of Monsieur Dollon are obscure. There are, however, two suspicious facts.
The first is the puncture made in Monsieur Jacques Dollon's left leg: this
puncture is aggravated by a scratch. According to the doctors, soporific,
injected into the human body by the de Pravaz syringe, acts violently and
efficaciously. It is beyond a doubt that Monsieur Jacques Dollon has been
rendered unconscious in this manner. To begin with, the painter's first version
was considered the true one, namely, that he had been surprised by robbers, who
rendered him unconscious; but, on reflection, this explanation would not hold
water. Murderous house-thieves do not send people to sleep: they kill them. Add
to this that nothing has been stolen from Monsieur Dollon: therefore, mere
robbery was not the motive of the crime. Besides, Monsieur Dollon maintained
that he was alone; yet at that time Madame de Vibray was in his studio, and was
there precisely because the artist himself had asked her to come. We know that
the Baroness de Vibray, who was very wealthy, took a particular interest in this
young man and his sister. We should consider ourselves to blame, did we not now
remind our readers that the names of those personages--Dollon, Vibray--
implicated in the drama of the rue Norvins, have already figured in the
chronicles of crimes, both recent and celebrated. Thus the assassination of the
Marquise de Langrune cannot have been forgotten, an assassination which has
remained a mystery, which was perpetrated a few years ago, and brought into
prominence the personalities of Monsieur Rambert and the charming Therese
Auvernois....

Madame de Vibray, who has just been so tragically done to death, was an intimate
friend of the Marquise de Langrune....

Monsieur Jacques Dollon is a son of Madame de Langrune's old steward....

We do not, of course, pretend to connect, in any way whatever, the drama of the
rue Norvins with the bygone drama which ended in the execution of Gurn,[1] but
we cannot pass over in silence the strange coincidence that, within the space of
a few years, the same halo of mystery surrounds the same group of
individuals....

[Footnote 1: See _Fantomas_.] But let us return to our narrative:

Monsieur Jacques Dollon, interrogated by the superintendent of police, declared
that he very rarely made use of the poisons locked up in the little cupboard of
his studio.... Notwithstanding this, it was discovered, during the course of the
perquisition, that one of the phials containing poison had been recently opened,
and that traces of the powder were still to be found on the floor. This powder
is now being analysed, whilst the faculty are engaged in a post-mortem
examination of the unfortunate victim's body; but, at the present moment,
everything leads to the belief that there does not exist an immediate and
certain link between this poison and the sudden death of the Baroness de Vibray.
It might easily be supposed, and this we believe is the view taken at Police
Headquarters, that for a motive as yet unknown, a motive the judicial
examination will certainly bring to light, the artist has poisoned his
patroness; and, in order to put the authorities on the wrong scent (perhaps he
hoped she would leave the studio before the death-agony commenced), he has
devised this species of tableau, invented the story of the masked men. In fact,
the doctor who first attended him has declared that the puncture, clumsily made,
might very well have been done by Jacques Dollon himself. It is worth noting
that not a soul saw the Baroness de Vibray enter Monsieur Dollon's house
yesterday evening: as a rule, she comes in her motor-car, and all the
neighbourhood can hear her arrival. It seems evident that Jacques Dollon will
abandon the line of defence he has adopted: it can hardly be described as
rational. There is little doubt but that we shall have sensational revelations
regarding the crime of the rue Norvins. _Last Hour_

Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon, to whom Police Headquarters has telegraphed that
a serious accident has happened to her brother, has sent a reply telegram from
Lausanne to the effect that she will return to-night. The unfortunate girl is
probably ignorant of all that has occurred. Nevertheless, we believe that two
detectives have left at once for the frontier, where they will meet her, and
shadow her as far as Paris, in case she should get news on the way of what had
occurred, and should either attempt to escape, or make an attempt on her life.
Decidedly, to-morrow promises to be a day full of vicissitudes. *       *
*       *       *

This article, published on the first page of _La Capitale_, was signed:

JEROME FANDOR. II

THOMERY'S TWO LOVES

Two days before the sinister drama, details of which Jerome Fandor had given in
_La Capitale_, the smart little town house inhabited by the Baroness de Vibray,
in the Avenue Henri-Martin, assumed a festive appearance. This did not surprise
her neighbours, for they knew the owner of this charming residence was very much
a woman of the world, whose reception-rooms were constantly opened to the many
distinguished Parisians forming her circle of acquaintances. It was seven in the
evening when the Baroness, dressed for dinner, passed from her own room into the
small drawing-room adjoining. Crossing a carpet so thick and soft that it
deadened the sound of footsteps, she pressed the button of an electric bell
beside the fireplace. A major-domo, of the most correct appearance, presented
himself. "The Baroness rang for me?" Madame de Vibray, who had instinctively
sought the flattering approval of her mirror, half turned:

"I wish to know if anyone called this afternoon, Antoine?" "For the Baroness?"
"Of course!" she replied, a note of impatience in her voice: "I want to know if
anyone called to see _me_ this afternoon?" "No, madame." "No one has telephoned
from the Barbey-Nanteuil Bank?" "No, madame." Repressing a slight feeling of
annoyance, Madame de Vibray changed the subject:

"You will have dinner served as soon as the guests arrive. They will not be
later than half-past seven, I suppose." Antoine bowed solemnly, vanished into
the anteroom, and from thence gained the servants' hall. Madame de Vibray
quitted the small drawing-room. Traversing the great gallery with its glass
roof, encircling the staircase, she entered the dining-room. Covers were laid
for three. Inspecting the table arrangements with the eye of a mistress of the
house, she straightened the line of some plates, gave a touch of distinction to
the flowers scattered over the table in a conventional disorder; then she went
to the sideboard, where the major-domo had left a china pot filled with flowers.
With a slight shrug, the Baroness carried the pot to its usual place--a marble
column at the further end of the room:

"It was fortunate I came to see how things were! Antoine is a good fellow, but a
hare-brained one too!" thought she. Madame de Vibray paused a moment: the light
from an electric lamp shone on the vase and wonderfully enhanced its glittering
beauty. It was a piece of faience decorated in the best taste. On its graceful
form the artist had traced the lines of an old colour print, and had
scrupulously preserved the picture born of an eighteenth-century artist's
imagination, with its brilliancy of tone and soft background of tender grey.
Madame de Vibray could not tear herself away from the contemplation of it. Not
only did the design and the treatment please her, but she also felt a kind of
maternal affection for the artist: "This dear Jacques," she murmured, "has
decidedly a great deal of talent, and I like to think that in a short time his
reputation...."

Her reflections were interrupted by the servant. The good Antoine announced in a
low voice, and with a touch of respectful reproach in his tone:

"Monsieur Thomery awaits the Baroness in the small drawing-room: he has been
waiting ten minutes." "Very well. I am coming." Madame de Vibray, whose
movements were all harmonious grace, returned by way of the gallery to greet her
guest. She paused on the threshold of the small drawing-room, smiling
graciously. Framed in the dark drapery of the heavy door-curtains, the soft
light from globes of ground glass falling on her, the Baroness de Vibray
appeared a very attractive woman still. Her figure had retained its youthful
slenderness, her neck, white as milk, was as round and fresh as a girl's; and
had the hair about her forehead and temples not been turning grey--the Baroness
wore it powdered, a piece of coquettish affection on her part--she would not
have looked a day more than thirty. Monsieur Thomery rose hastily, and advanced
to meet her. He kissed her hand with a gallant air:

"My dear Mathilde," he declared with an admiring glance, "you are decidedly an
exquisite woman!" The Baroness replied by a glance, in which there was something
ambiguous, something of ironical mockery:

"How are you, Norbert?" she asked in an affectionate tone.... "And those pains?"
They seated themselves on a low couch, and began to discuss their respective
aches and pains in friendly fashion. Whilst listening to his complaints, Madame
de Vibray could not but admire his remarkable vigour, his air of superb health:
his looks gave the lie to his words. About fifty-five, Monsieur Norbert Thomery
seemed to be in the plenitude of his powers; his premature baldness was redeemed
by the vivacity of his dark brown eyes, also by his long, thick moustache,
probably dyed. He looked like an old soldier. He was the last of the great
Thomery family who, for many generations, had been sugar refiners. His was a
personality well known in Parisian Society; always first at his office or his
factories, as soon as night fell he became the man of the world, frequenting
fashionable drawing-rooms, theatrical first-nights, official receptions, and
balls in the aristocratic circles of the faubourg Saint-Germain. Remarkably
handsome, extremely rich, Thomery had had many love affairs. Gossips had it that
between him and Madame de Vibray there had existed a tender intimacy; and, for
once, gossip was right. But they had been tactful, had respected the conventions
whilst their irregular union had lasted. Though now a thing of the past, for
Thomery had sought other loves, his passion for the Baroness had changed to a
calm, strong, semi-brotherly affection; whilst Madame de Vibray retained a more
lively, a more tender feeling for the man whom she had known as the most gallant
of lovers. Thomery suddenly ceased talking of his rheumatism:

"But, my dear friend, I do not see that pretty smile which is your greatest
charm! How is that?" Madame de Vibray looked sad: her beautiful eyes gazed deep
into those of Thomery:

"Ah," she murmured, "one cannot be eternally smiling; life sometimes holds
painful surprises in store for us." "Is something worrying you?" Thomery's tone
was one of anxious sympathy. "Yes and no," was her evasive reply. There was a
silence; then she said:

"It is always the same thing! I have no hesitation in telling you that, you, my
old friend: it is a money wound--happily it is not mortal." Thomery nodded:

"Well, I declare it is just what I expected! My poor Mathilde, are you never
going to be sensible?" The Baroness pouted: "You know quite well I am sensible
... only it happens that there are moments when one is short of cash! Yesterday
I asked my bankers to send me fifty thousand francs, and I have not heard a word
from them!" "That is no great matter! The Barbey-Nanteuil credit cannot be
shaken!" "Oh," cried the Baroness, "I have no fears on that score; but, as a
rule, their delay in sending me what I ask for is of the briefest, yet no one
has come from them to-day." Thomery began scolding her gently:

"Ah, Mathilde, that you should be in such pressing need of so large a sum must
mean that you have been drawn into some deplorable speculation! I will wager
that you invested in those Oural copper mines after all!" "I thought the shares
were going up," was Madame de Vibray's excuse: she lowered her eyes like a
naughty schoolgirl caught in the act. Thomery, who had risen, and was walking up
and down the room, halted in front of her:

"I do beg of you to consult those who know all the ins and outs, persons
competent to advise you, when you are bent on plunging into speculations of this
description! The Barbey-Nanteuil people can give you reliable information; I
myself, you know..."

"But since it is really of no importance!" interrupted Madame de Vibray, who had
no wish to listen to the remonstrances of her too prudent friend: "What does it
matter? It is my only diversion now!... I love gambling--the emotions it arouses
in one, the perpetual hopes and fears it excites!" Thomery was about to reply,
to argue, to remonstrate further, but the Baroness had caught him glancing at
the clock hanging beside the fireplace:

"I am making you dine late," she said in a tone of apology. Then, with a touch
of malice, and looking up at Thomery from under her eyes, to see how he took it:

"You are to be rewarded for having to wait!... I have invited Princess Sonia
Danidoff to dine with you!" Thomery started. He frowned. He again seated himself
beside the Baroness:

"You have invited her?..." "Yes ... and why not?... I believe this pretty woman
is one of your special friends... that you consider her the most charming of all
your friends now!..." Thomery did not take up the challenge: he simply said:

"I had an idea that the Princess was not much to your taste!" The eyes of Madame
de Vibray flashed a sad, strange look on her old friend, as she said gently:

"One can accustom oneself to anything and everything, my dear friend....
Besides, I quite recognise that the Princess deserves the reputation she enjoys
of being wonderfully beautiful and also intellectual...."

Thomery did not reply to this: he looked puzzled, annoyed.... The Baroness
continued:

"They even say that handsome bachelor, Monsieur Thomery, is not indifferent to
her fascinations!... That, for the first time in his life, he is ready to link
..."

"Oh, as for that!..." Thomery was protesting, when the door opened, and the
Princess Sonia Danidoff rustled into the room, a superbly--a dazzlingly
beautiful vision, all audacity and charm. "Accept all my apologies, dear
Baroness," she cried, "for arriving so late; but the streets are so crowded!"
"... And I live such a long way out!" added Madame de Vibray. "You live in a
charming part," amended the Princess. Then, catching sight of Thomery:

"Why, you!" she cried. And, with a gracious and dignified gesture, the Princess
extended her hand, which the wealthy sugar refiner hastened to kiss. At this
moment the double doors were flung wide, and Antoine, with his most solemn air,
his most stiff-starched manner, announced:

"Dinner is served!" "... No," cried she, smiling, whilst she refused the arm
offered by her old friend; "take in the Princess, dear friend; I will follow ...
by myself!" Thomery obeyed. He passed slowly along the gallery into the dining-
room with the Princess. Behind them came the Baroness, who watched them as they
went: Thomery, big, muscular, broad-shouldered: Sonia Danidoff, slim, pliant,
refined, dainty! Checking a deep sigh, the Baroness could not help thinking, and
her heart ached at the thought:

"What a fine couple they would make!... What a fine couple they will make!" But,
as she seated herself opposite her guests, she said to herself:

"Bah!... I must send sad thoughts flying!... It is high time!" "My dear
Thomery!" she cried playfully: "I wish--I expect you to show yourself the most
charming of men to your delicious neighbour!" Ten o'clock had struck before
Madame de Vibray and her guests left the dinner-table and proceeded to the small
drawing-room. Thomery was allowed to smoke in their presence; besides, the
Princess had accepted a Turkish cigarette, and the Baroness had allowed herself
a liqueur. A most excellent dinner and choice wines had loosened tongues, and,
in accordance with a prearranged plan, Madame de Vibray had directed the
conversation imperceptibly into the channels she wished it to follow. Thus she
learned what she had feared to know, namely, that a very serious flirtation had
been going on for some time between Thomery and the Princess; that between this
beautiful and wealthy young widow and the millionaire sugar refiner, the
flirtation was rapidly developing into something much warmer and more lasting.
So far, the final stage had evidently not been reached; nevertheless, Thomery
had suggested, tentatively, that he would like to give a grand ball when he took
possession of the new house which he was having built for himself in the park
Monceau!... And had he not been so extremely anxious to secure a partner for the
cotillion which he meant to lead!... Then Madame de Vibray had suggested that
the person obviously fitted to play this important part was the Princess Sonia
Danidoff! Who better! The suggestion was welcomed by both: it was settled there
and then. "Yes," thought the Baroness, "Thomery's marriage is practically
arranged, that is evident!... Well, I must resign myself to the inevitable!" It
was about half-past eleven when Sonia Danidoff rose to take leave of her
hostess. Thomery, hesitating, looked first at his old friend, then at the
Princess, asking himself what he ought to do. Madame de Vibray felt secretly
grateful to him for this momentary hesitation. As a woman whose mourning for a
dead love is over, she spoke out bravely:

"Dear friend," said she, "surely you are not going to let the Princess return
alone?... I hope she will allow you to see her safely home?" The Princess
pressed the hands of her generous hostess: she was radiant:

"What a good kind friend you are!" she cried in an outburst of sincere
affection. Then, with a questioning glance, in which there was a touch of
uneasiness, a slight hesitation, she said:

"Ah, do let me kiss you!" For all reply Madame de Vibray opened her arms; the
two women clung together, sealing with their kiss the treaty of peace both
wished to keep. When the humming of the motor-car, which bore off the Princess
and Thomery, had died away in the distance, Madame de Vibray retired to her
room. A tear rolled down her cheek:

"A little bit of my heart has gone with them," she murmured. The poor woman
sighed deeply: "Ah, it is my whole heart that has gone!" There was a discreet
knock at the door. She mastered her emotion. It was the dignified mistress of
the house who said quietly:

"Come in!" It was Antoine, who presented two letters on a silver salver. He
explained that, believing his mistress to be anxiously awaiting some news, he
had ventured to bring up the last post at this late hour. After bidding Antoine
good night, she recalled him to say:

"Please tell the maid not to come up. I shall not require her. I can manage by
myself." Madame de Vibray went towards the little writing-table, which stood in
one corner of her room; in leisurely fashion she sat down and proceeded to open
her letters with a wearied air. "Why, it's from that nice Jacques Dollon!" she
exclaimed, as she read the first letter she opened: "I was thinking of him at
this very minute!" ... "Yes," she went on, as she read, "I shall certainly pay
him a visit soon!" Madame de Vibray put Jacques Dollon's letter in her handbag,
recognising on the back of the second letter the initials B. N., which she knew
to be the discreet superscription on the business paper of her bankers,
Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil. It was long and closely written, in a fine, regular
hand. When she began to read it her attention was wandering, for her mind was
full of Sonia Danidoff and Thomery, and what she had ascertained regarding their
relation to each other; but little by little she became absorbed in what she was
reading, till her whole attention was taken captive. As she read on, however,
her eyes opened more and more widely, there was a look of keenest anguish in
them, her features contracted as if in pain, her bosom heaved, her fingers were
trembling under the stress of some intense emotion:

"Oh, my God! Ah! My God!" she gasped out several times in a half-choked voice. *
*       *       *       *

Silence had reigned for a long while in the smart town house of the Baroness de
Vibray in the Avenue Henri-Martin....

From without came no sound; the avenue was quiet, deserted; the night was dark.
But when three o'clock struck, the bedroom of Madame de Vibray was still flooded
with light. She had not left her writing-table since she had read the letter of
her bankers, Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil. She wrote on, and on, without
intermission. III

UNEXPECTED COMPLICATIONS

At nine o'clock in the morning, the staff of that great evening paper, _La
Capitale_, were assembled in the vast editorial room, writing out their copy, in
the midst of a perfect hubbub of continual comings and goings, of regular
shindies, of perpetual discussions. A stranger entering this room, which among
its frequenters went by the name of "The Wild Beasts' Cage," might easily have
thought he was witnessing some thirty schoolboys at play in recreation time,
instead of being in the presence of famous journalists celebrated for their
reports and articles. Jerome Fandor had no sooner appeared on the threshold than
he was accorded a variety of greetings--ironical, cordial, fault-finding,
sympathetic. But he ignored them all; for, like most of those who came into the
editorial room at this hour, he was preoccupied with one thing only--where the
caprice of his editorial secretary would send him flying for news, in the course
of a few minutes? On what difficult and delicate quest would he be despatched?
It depended on the exigencies of passing events, on how questions of the hour
struck the editorial secretary, in relation to Fandor. Just as he had expected,
the editorial secretary called him. "Hey! Fandor, come here a minute! I am on
the make-up: what have you got for to-day?" "I don't know. Who has charge of the
landing of the King of Spain?" "Maray. He has just left. Have you seen the last
issue of _l'Havas_?" "Here it is...."

The two men ran rapidly through the night's telegrams. "Deplorably empty!"
remarked the editorial secretary. "But where am I to send you?... Ah, now I have
it! That article of yours on the rue Norvins affair, yesterday evening, was
interesting--it made the others squirm, I know! Isn't there anything more to be
got out of that story?" "What do you want?" "Can't you stick in something just a
little bit scandalous about the Baroness de Vibray? Or about Dollon? About no
matter whom, in fact? After all, it's our one and only crime to-day, and you
must put in something under that head!..." Jerome Fandor seemed to hesitate.
"Would you like me to rake up the past--refer to what happened before?" "What
past?" "Come now, you must have an inkling of what I refer to!" "Not I!" "Ah, my
dear fellow, it will not be the first time we have had to mention these
personages in our columns!... Just cast your mind back to the Gurn affair!..."
"Ah, the drama in which a great lady was implicated ... to her detriment! Lady
... Lady Beltham?" "You have got it! These Dollons--Jacques and Elizabeth--did
you know it?--happen to be the children of old Dollon, who was murdered in the
train--an extraordinary murder!--when on his way to Paris, to give evidence in
the Gurn case?" "Why, of course! I remember perfectly!" declared the editorial
secretary: "Dollon, the father, was the Marquise de Langrune's steward!... The
old lady who was murdered!... Isn't that so?" "That's it!... But, after the
death of his mistress, he entered the service of the Baroness de Vibray, she who
was assassinated yesterday!" "Well, I must say they have not been favoured by
fortune," said the secretary jokingly. "But, look here, Fandor--like father,
like son, eh?... If this young Dollon has murdered Madame de Vibray, doesn't
that make you think that his father was the murderer of the Marquise de
Langrune?" Jerome Fandor shook his head:

"No, old boy, yesterday's crime was ordinary, even common-place, but the
assassination of the Marquise de Langrune, on the contrary, gave the police no
end of bother." "They did not find out anything, did they?" "Why, yes!... Don't
you remember?... Naturally enough, it must all seem rather remote to you, but I
have all the details as clearly in mind as if they had happened only
yesterday.... The Gurn affair was one of the first I had a hand in, with Juve
... it was in connection with that very affair I made my start here on _La
Capitale_. "[2]

[Footnote 2: See _Fantomas_.] Fandor grew pale:

"And you were jolly proud of it, eh, Fandor?... Good Heavens, how you did hold
forth about this Juve! And you regularly fed us up with this villain, so
mysterious, so extraordinary, who was never run to earth, could not be captured,
was capable of the most inhuman cruelties, capable of devising the most
unimaginable tricks and stratagems--this Fantomas!" Fandor grew pale:

"My dear fellow," said he, "never speak sneeringly or jokingly of Fantomas!...
No doubt it is taken for granted, by the public at any rate, that Fantomas is an
invention of Juve and myself: that Fantomas never existed!... And that because
this monster, who is a man of genius, has never been identified; because not a
soul has been able to lay hands on him ...; and because, as you know, this
fruitless pursuit has cost poor Juve his life...."

"The truth is, this famous detective died a foul death!" "No! You are mistaken!
Juve died on the field of honour! When, after a terribly difficult and dangerous
investigation, he succeeded (by this time it was no longer the Gurn-Fantomas
affair, but that of the boulevard Inkermann at Neuilly) in cornering Fantomas,
he was well aware that he risked his life in entering the bandit's abode. What
happened was that the villain found means to blow up the house, and to bury Juve
underneath the ruins. [3] Fantomas has proved the stronger; but, according to my
ideas, Juve has had, none the less, the finest death he could desire--death in
the midst of the fight--a useful death!" [Footnote 3: See _The Exploits of
Juve_.] "Useful? In what way?..." "My dear fellow," cried Fandor, in a tone of
vigorous denial, "in the opinion of all unprejudiced minds, the death of Juve
has proved, proved up to the hilt, the existence of Fantomas.... More, it has
forced this villain to disappear; it has restored peace, tranquillity to
society.... At the cost of his life, Juve has scored a final triumph, he has
deprived Fantomas of the power to do harm--pared his claws in fact." "The truth
is he is never mentioned now by a soul ... for all that, Fandor, only to see you
smile! Why--," and the editorial secretary shook a threatening finger at his
colleague: "I'll wager you still believe in Fantomas!... That one fine day you
will write us a rattling good article, announcing some fresh Fantomas crime!"
Jerome Fandor made no direct reply to this--it was useless to try and convince
those who had not closely followed the records of crimes perpetrated during
recent years: you could not make them believe in the existence of Fantomas.
Fandor _knew_; but, Juve dead, was there another soul who could know the true
facts? All he said was:

"Well, my dear fellow, this does not tell us what we are to fill up the paper
with now!... If the doings connected with Fantomas are frightful, rousing our
feelings in the highest degree, I repeat that yesterday's crime bears no
resemblance to them: we can put in a paragraph or so--that is all!" "No way, is
there, of compromising anyone with our Baroness de Vibray?" "I don't think so!
It's a perfectly common-place affair. An elderly woman patronises a young
painter, whose mistress she may or may not be, and she ends up by getting
herself assassinated when the young man imagines he is mentioned in her will."
"Ah! good! Well, I think you will have to fall back on the opening of the
artesian well. That suit you?" "Oh, quite all right!... If you like I can give
you my copy in half an hour. I know who are going to speak at the inauguration
ceremony, and I can add names this evening! You know I am a bit of a specialist
as regards reports written beforehand!" Fandor had got well on with his article:
at the rate he was going he would have finished that morning, he thought with
pleasure, and would have a free afternoon. Just then an office boy appeared:

"Monsieur Fandor, you are being asked for at the telephone." Like most
journalists, Fandor was accustomed to reply in nine cases out of ten, in similar
cases, that he was not to be found. On this occasion, however, some interior
prompting made him say:

"I will come." A few minutes later Fandor went up to the editorial secretary:

"Look here, old fellow, something unexpected has happened.... I must go to the
Palais de Justice ... you don't want me for anything else this morning, do you?"
"No, go along! But what's up?" "Oh ... this Jacques Dollon, you know, the
assassin of the rue Norvins? Well, this imbecile has gone and hanged himself in
his cell!" *       *       *       *       *

At the exit door of _La Capitale_, in the noisy rue Montmartre, crowded with
costermongers' barrows, Jerome Fandor hailed a taxi. "To the Palais!" Some
minutes later he was crossing the hall of the Wandering Footsteps (as it is
called), giving rapid, cordial greetings to all the barristers of his
acquaintance--one never knew when they might impart a special piece of
information which let an enterprising journalist into the know, or put him early
on to a good thing--and finally reached the lobbies of the Law Courts proper. He
was saying to himself as he went along:

"He is a good fellow, Jouet! The news is not known yet! He telephoned me first!"
His friend Jouet met him, with a warm handshake:

"You did not seem to be in a good temper at the telephone just now, although I
was giving you a nice bit of information!" "Yes," retorted Fandor, "but
information which simply proved how much the administrators of justice, to which
you have the misfortune to belong, can make egregious mistakes! When, for once,
you succeed in immediately arresting the assassin of someone well known, and are
in a position to bring into play all the power and rigour of the law, you are
clumsy enough to give the fellow a chance of punishing himself, you let him
commit suicide on the very first night of his arrest!" Fandor had been speaking
in a fairly loud voice, as usual, but, at imperative signs made by his friend,
he lowered his tones:

"What is it?" he murmured. His friend rose:

"What we are going to do, old boy, is to take a turn in the galleries! I have
something to say to you, and, joking apart, you are not to breathe a word of it
to a soul--sh?" "Count on me!" Presently the two friends found themselves in one
of the corridors of the Palais, known only to barristers and those accused of
law-breaking. "Come now!" cried Fandor, "your assassin has hanged himself,
hasn't he?" "My assassin!" expostulated the junior barrister: "My assassin!
Allow me to inform you that Jacques Dollon is innocent!" "Innocent?" Jerome
Fandor shrugged a disbelieving shoulder: "Innocent! It is the fashion of the day
to transform all murderers into innocents!... What ground have you for making
such a declaration of innocence?" "Here is my ground! I have just copied it out
for you! Read!..." Fandor hastened to read the paper handed to him by his
friend. It was headed thus:

"_Copy of a letter brought by Maitre Gerin to the Public      Prosecutor, a
letter addressed to Maitre Gerin by the Baroness de      Vibray._"

"Oh, it's a plant!" cried Fandor. "Go on reading, you will see...."

Fandor continued:

"_My dear Maitre_,--

_You will forgive me, I am certain of that, for all the      inconvenience I am
going to cause you; I turn to you because you      are the only friend in whom I
have confidence._

_I have just received a letter from my bankers, Messieurs      Barbey-Nanteuil,
of whom I have often spoken to you, who you know      manage all my money
affairs for me._

_This letter informs me that I am ruined. You quite      understand--absolutely,
completely ruined._

_The house I am living in, my carriage, the luxurious surroundings      so
necessary to me, I shall have to give it all up, so they tell      me._

_These people have dealt me a terrible blow, struck me      brutally...._

_My dear maitre, I learned this only two hours ago, and I am still      stunned
by it. I do not wish to wait for the inevitable moment when      I shall begin
to console myself, because I shall begin to hope that      the disaster is
exaggerated. I have no family, I am already old;      apart from the
satisfaction it gives me to use my influence on      behalf of youthful talent,
and to help forward its development, my      life has no sense in it, it is
without aim or object. My dear      maitre, there are not two ways of announcing
to one's friends      resolutions analogous to that I now take: when you receive
this      letter I shall be dead._

_I have in front of me, on my writing-table, a tiny phial of poison      which I
am going to drink to the last drop, without any weakening      of will, almost
without fear, as soon as I have posted this letter      to you myself._

_I must confess that I have an instinctive horror of being dragged      to the
Morgue, as happens whenever there is some doubt about a      suicide. It is on
account of this I now write to you, so that,      thanks to your intervention,
all the mistakes justice is liable to      make may be avoided._

_I kill myself, I only; that is certain._

_No one must be incriminated in connection with my death, if it be      not
Fatality, which has caused my ruin. I once more apologise, my      dear maitre,
for all the measures you will be forced to take owing      to my death, and I
beg you to believe that my friendship for you      was very sincere:_

_Signed:_

BARONESS DE VIBRAY." "Good for you!" cried Fandor. "Here's a go! What a pretty
petard in prospect!... Jacques Dollon was innocent; you arrest him; he is so
terrified that he hangs himself! Well, old boy, I must say you make some fine
blunders on Clock Quay!" "It is nobody's fault!" protested the young barrister.
"That is to say," retorted Fandor, "it is everybody's fault! By Jove! If you let
innocent prisoners hang themselves in their cells, I am no longer surprised that
you leave the guilty at liberty to walk the streets at their sweet will!" "Don't
make a joke of it, old boy!... You understand, of course, that so far no one in
the Palais has seen the letter! It has just been brought to the Public
Prosecutor's office by Madame de Vibray's solicitor, Maitre Gerin. You came on
the scene only a few minutes after I had sent up the original to the examining
magistrate. The case is in Fuselier's hands." "Is he in his office?" "Certainly!
He should proceed with the examination relative to poor Dollon this morning."
"Very well then, I will go up. I shall jolly soon get out of this booby of a
Fuselier the information I need to make one of the best reports I have ever
written. And you know, I am ever so obliged to you for the matter you've given
me! But, mind you, I am going to put together a bit of copy that will not deal
tenderly with our gentlemen of the robe--the lot of you! No, it is a bad,
unlucky business enough, but it is even more funny--it is tragi-comedy!" "For my
part ..." began Fandor's barrister friend. "Yes, yes! Good day, Pontius Pilate!"
cried Fandor. "I am going up to Fuselier.... We must meet to-morrow!" Hastening
along the corridors, Fandor gained the office of the examining magistrate. *
*       *       *       *

Fandor had known the magistrate a long while. Was not Fuselier the justice who,
with Detective Juve, had had everything to do with the strangely mysterious
cases associated with the name of Fantomas? In the course of his various
judicial examinations he had often been able to give Fandor information and
help. At first hostile to the constant preoccupation of Juve and Fandor--for
long the arrest of Fantomas was their one aim--the young magistrate had
gradually come to believe in what had seemed to him nothing but the detective's
hypothesis. Open-minded, gifted with an alert intelligence, Fuselier had
carefully followed the investigations of Juve and Fandor. He knew every detail,
every vicissitude connected with the tracking of this elusive bandit. Since then
the magistrate had taken the deepest interest in the pursuit of the criminal.
Thanks to his support, Juve had been enabled to take various measures, otherwise
almost impossible, avoid the many obstacles offered by legal procedure, risk the
striking of many a blow he could not otherwise have ventured on. Fuselier had a
high opinion of Juve, and his attitude to Fandor was sympathetic. Our journalist
was going over the past as he hastened along:

Ah, if only Juve were here! If only this loyal servant of Justice, this
sincerest of friends, this bravest of the brave, had not been struck down,
Fandor would have been full of enthusiasm for the Dollon affair; for its
interest was increasing, its mystery deepening! But Fandor was single-handed
now! He had had a miraculous escape from the bomb which had blown up Lady
Beltham's house on that tragic day when Juve had all but laid hands on Fantomas!
But Fandor would not allow himself to become disheartened--never that! In the
school of his vanished friend he had learned to give himself up with single-
minded devotion to any task he took up; his sole satisfaction being duty well
fulfilled.... Well, the Dollon case should be cleared up!... To do so was to
render a service to humanity! Having come to this conclusion he hastened to
interview Monsieur Fuselier. *       *       *       *       *

"Monsieur Fuselier," cried Fandor as he shook hands with the magistrate, "you
must know quite well why I have come to see you!" "About the rue Norvins
affair?" "Say rather about the Depot affair! It is there the affair became
tragic." Monsieur Fuselier smiled:

"You know then?" "That Jacques Dollon has hanged himself? Yes. That he was
innocent? Again, yes!" confessed Fandor, smiling in his turn: "You know that at
_La Capitale_ we get all the information going, and are the first to get it!"
"Evidently," conceded the magistrate. "But if you know all about it, why put my
professional discretion to the torture by asking absurd questions?" "Now, what
the deuce are they about on Clock Quay? Don't they supervise the accused in
their cells?" "Certainly they do! When this Dollon arrived at the Depot he was
immediately conducted to Monsieur Bertillon: there he was measured and tested,
finger marks taken, and so on." "Just so," said Fandor. "I saw Bertillon before
coming on to you. He told me Dollon seemed crushed: he submitted to all the
tests without making the slightest objection; but he never spoke of suicide,
never said anything which could lead one to imagine such a fatal termination."
"Well, he would not cry it aloud on the housetops!... When he left Monsieur
Bertillon, what then?" "After!... Oh, the police took him to a cell, and left
him there. At midnight the chief warder made his rounds and saw nothing
abnormal. It was in the morning they found this unfortunate Dollon had hanged
himself." "What did he hang himself with?" "With strips of his shirt twisted
into a rope.... Oh, my dear fellow, I see what you are thinking! You fancy that
there has been a want of common prudence--that the warders were lax--that they
had let him retain his braces, his cravat or his shoe laces!... Well, it was not
so--precautions were taken." "And this suicide remains incomprehensible!"
"Well!... This wretched youth must have been ferociously energetic, because he
had fastened these shirt ropes of his to the iron bars of his bed, and strangled
himself by lying on his back. Death must have been long in coming to release him
from his agony." "Can I not see him?" asked Fandor. "Why not photograph him?"
asked the magistrate in a bantering tone. "Oh, if it were possible!..." Fandor
stopped short. A youth knocked and entered:

"A lady, who wishes to see you, monsieur." "Tell her I am too busy." "She asked
me to say that it is urgent." "Ask her name." "Here is her card, monsieur."
Monsieur Fuselier looked at the card: he started! "Elizabeth Dollon!... Ah ...
Good Heavens, what am I to say to this poor girl? How am I to tell her?" Just
then the door was pushed violently open, and a girl, in tears, rushed towards
him:

"Monsieur, where is my brother?" "But, mademoiselle!..." Whilst the magistrate
mechanically asked his distracted visitor to sit down, Jerome Fandor discreetly
withdrew to the further side of the room; he was anxious that the magistrate
should forget his presence, so that he might be a witness of what promised to be
a most exciting interview. "Pray control yourself, mademoiselle," begged the
magistrate. "Your brother has perhaps been arrested through a mistake...."

"Oh, monsieur, I am sure of it, but it is frightful!" "Mademoiselle, the
dreadful thing would be that he was guilty." "But they have not set him at
liberty yet? He has not been able to clear himself?" "Yes, yes, mademoiselle, he
has vindicated himself, I even ..." Monsieur Fuselier stopped short, intensely
pained, not knowing how to tell Elizabeth Dollon the terrible news. At once she
cried: "Ah, monsieur, you hesitate! You have learned something fresh? You are on
the track of the assassins?" "It is certain ... your brother is not guilty!" The
poor girl's countenance suddenly brightened. She had passed a horrible night
after her return to Paris, and the receipt of the wire from Police Headquarters.
"What a nightmare!" she cried. "But the telegram said he was injured--nothing
serious, is it?... Where is he now? Can I see him?" "Mademoiselle," said the
magistrate, "your brother has had a terrible shock!... It would be better!... I
fear that!..." Suddenly Elizabeth Dollon cried:

"Oh, monsieur, how you said that! How can seeing me do him harm?" As Monsieur
Fuselier did not reply, she burst into tears:

"You are hiding something from me! The papers said this morning that he also was
a victim! Swear to me that he is not?" "But ..."

"You _are_ hiding something from me!" The poor girl was frantic with terror: she
wrung her hands in a state of despair: "Where is he? I must see him! Oh, take
pity on me!" As she watched the magistrate's downcast look, his air of
discomfiture, the horrid truth flashed on Elizabeth Dollon:

"Dead!" she cried. She was shaken with sobs. "Mademoiselle!... Oh,
mademoiselle!" implored the magistrate, filled with pity. He tried to find some
words of consolation, and this confirmed her worst fears:

"I swear to you!... It is certain your brother was not guilty!" The distracted
girl was beyond listening to the magistrate's words! Huddled up in an arm-chair,
she lay inert, collapsed. Presently she rose like a person moving in some mad
dream, her eyes wild:

"Take me to him!... I want to see him! They have killed him for me!... I must
see him!" Such was her insistence, the violence with which she claimed the right
to go to her brother, to kneel beside him, that Monsieur Fuselier dared not
refuse her this consolation. "Control yourself, I beg of you! I am going to take
you to him; but, for Heaven's sake, be reasonable! Control yourself!" With his
eyes he sought for the moral support of Fandor, whose presence he suddenly
remembered. But our journalist, taking advantage of the momentary confusion, had
quietly slipped from the room. Evidently some unpleasant occurrence had upset
the routine existence of the functionaries at the Depot. The warders were coming
and going, talking among themselves, leaning against the doors of the numerous
cells. The chief warder called one of his men:

"There must be no more of this disorder, Nibet!" The chief warder was furious:
he was about to hold forth to his subordinate, when an inspector approached.
"What is it?" he asked. "Sergeant, it is Monsieur Jouet. He has a gentleman with
him. He has a permit. Should I allow him to enter?" "Who? Monsieur Jouet?" "No,
the gentleman accompanying him!" "Hang it all! Why, yes--if he has a permit!"
The sergeant moved away shrugging his shoulders disgustedly. "Not pleased with
things this morning, the chief isn't," one of the warders remarked. "Not likely,
after last night's performance!" "It's he who will catch it hot over this
business!" The warder rubbed his hands, laughing. Meanwhile, Fandor had appeared
at the entrance of the corridor, under the guidance of a warder. He was thinking
of the splendid copy he had secured: he was hoping that when Fuselier learned
that a journalist had obtained admittance to the Depot, and had seen the corpse
of Jacques Dollon in his cell, that he would not turn vicious: "But after all,"
said he to himself, "Fuselier is not the man to give me the go-by out of spite."
Fandor walked up and down the hall of the prison. He had informed the warders
that he was waiting for the magistrate. "How strange life is!" thought he. "To
think that once again I should be brought into close contact with Elizabeth
Dollon, and that there is no likelihood of her recognising me--we were such
children when we parted--she especially! Had she any recollection of the little
rascal I was at the time of poor Madame de Langrune's assassination?" And,
closing his eyes, Fandor tried to call to mind the features of the Jacques
Dollon he used to know: it was useless! The body of Jacques Dollon he would be
gazing at in a few minutes would be that of an unknown person, whose name alone
awakened memories of bygone days.... So to pass the time Fandor continued his
marching up and down. Monsieur Fuselier appeared at the entrance to the Depot,
supporting the unsteady steps of poor Elizabeth Dollon. Fandor quickly drew back
into an obscure corner:

"Better not attract attention to myself just at present," thought Fandor; "I
will wait until the cell door is opened. If Fuselier does not wish to give me
permission to remain, I can at any rate cast a rapid glance round that ill-
omened little cell!" Fandor followed, at a distance, the wavering steps of the
poor girl whom Monsieur Fuselier was supporting with fatherly care. When they
paused before one of the cells pointed out by the head warder, Monsieur Fuselier
turned to Elizabeth Dollon:

"Do you think you are strong enough to bear this trial, mademoiselle?... You are
determined to see your brother?" Elizabeth bent her head; the magistrate turned
towards the warder:

"Open," said he. As the key was turned in the lock he said: "According to
instructions from the Head, we have placed him on his bed again.... There is
nothing to frighten you ... he seems to be asleep.... Now then!" But as he
opened the door, stretching his arm in the direction of the bed where the body
of Jacques Dollon should be, an oath escaped him:

"Great Heavens! The dead man is gone!" In this cell with its bare walls, its
sole furniture an iron bedstead and a stool riveted to the floor, in this little
cell which the eye could glance round in a second, there was no vestige of a
corpse: Jacques Dollon's body was not there! "You have mistaken the cell," said
the magistrate sharply. "No, no!" cried the astounded warder. "You can see,
can't you, that Jacques Dollon is not there?" "He was there a few minutes ago!"
"Then they must have taken him somewhere else!" "The keys have never left me!"
"Oh, come now!" "No, sir. He was there ... now he isn't there! That's all I
know!... Hey! You down there!" yelled the warder: "Who knows what has become of
the corpse of cell 12?... The corpse we laid out just now?" One after the other
the warders came running. All confirmed what their chief had said: the dead body
of Jacques Dollon had been left there, lying on the bed: not a soul had entered
the cell: not a soul had touched the corpse!... Yet it was no longer there!
Jerome Fandor, well in the background, followed the scene with an ironical
smile. The frantic warders, the growing stupefaction of Monsieur Fuselier,
amused him prodigiously. The magistrate was trying to understand the how, why,
and wherefore of this incredible disappearance:

"As this man is not here, he cannot have been dead ... he has escaped ... but if
he wanted to escape he must have been guilty!... Oh, I cannot make head or tail
of it!" Seizing the head warder by the shoulders, almost roughly, Monsieur
Fuselier asked:

"Look here, chief, was this man dead, or was he not?" Elizabeth Dollon was
repeating:

"He lives! He lives!" and laughing wildly. The warder raised his hand as though
taking a solemn oath:

"As to being dead, he was dead right enough!... The doctor will tell you so,
too: also my colleague, Favril, who helped me to lay out the body on the bed."
"But how can a dead body get away from here? If he _was_ dead, he could not have
escaped!" said the magistrate. "It is witchcraft!" declared the warder, with a
shrug. Fuselier flew into a rage:

"Had you not better confess that you and your colleagues did not keep proper
watch and ward!... The investigation will show on whose shoulders the
responsibility rests." "But, sakes alive, monsieur!" expostulated the warder:
"There aren't only two of us who have seen him dead!... There are all the
hospital attendants of the Depot as well!... There is the doctor, and there are
my colleagues to be counted in: the truth is, monsieur, some fifty persons have
seen him dead!" "So you say!" cried the impatient magistrate: "I am going to
inform the Public Prosecutor of what has happened, and at once!" As he was
hurrying away, he spied Jerome Fandor, who had not missed a single detail of the
scene. "You again!" exclaimed the irate magistrate: "How did you get in here?"
"By permit," replied our journalist. "Well, you have learned what there is to
know, haven't you? Be off, then! You are one too many here!... Frankly, there is
no need for you to augment the scandal!... Will you, therefore, be kind enough
to take yourself off?" And Fuselier, almost beside himself with rage, raced off
to the Public Prosecutor's office. After the magistrate's furious attack, Fandor
could not possibly linger in the corridors of the Depot. The warders, too, were
pressing their attentions on him and on Elizabeth Dollon:

"This way, monsieur!... Madame, this way!... Ah, it's a wretched business!...
Here, this way! This way!... Be off, as fast as you can!" Presently Fandor was
descending the grand staircase of the Palais, steadying the uncertain steps of
poor Elizabeth Dollon. "I implore you to help me!" she cried: "Help me: help us!
My brother is guiltless--I could swear to that!... He must--must be found!...
This hideous nightmare must end!" "Mademoiselle, I ask nothing better, only ...
where to find him?" "Ah, I have no idea, none!... I implore you, you who must
know influential people in high places, do not leave any stone unturned, do all
that is humanly possible to save him--to save us!" Intensely moved by the poor
girl's anguish of mind, Fandor could not trust himself to speak. He bent his
head in the affirmative merely. Hailing a cab, he put her into it, gave the
address to the driver, and as he was closing the door Elizabeth cried:

"Do all that is humanly possible--do everything in the world!" "I swear to you I
will get at the truth," was Fandor's parting promise. The cab had disappeared,
but our journalist stood motionless, absorbed in his reflections. At last,
uttering his thoughts aloud, he said:

"If the Baroness de Vibray has written that she has killed herself, then she has
killed herself, and Dollon is innocent. It's true the letter may be fictitious
... therefore we must put it aside--we have no guarantee as to its
genuineness.... Here is the problem: Jacques Dollon is dead, and yet has left
the Depot! Yes, but how?" Jerome Fandor went off in the direction of the offices
of _La Capitale_ so absorbed in thought that he jostled the passers-by, without
noticing the angry glances bestowed on him:

"Jacques Dollon, dead, has left the Depot!" He repeated this improbable
statement, so absurd, of necessity incorrect; repeated it to the point of
satiety:

"Jacques Dollon is dead, and he has got away from the Depot!" Then, in an
illuminating flash, he perceived the solution of this apparently insoluble
problem:

"A mystery such as this is incomprehensible, inexplicable, impossible, except in
connection with one man! There is only one individual in the world capable of
making a dead man seem to be alive after his death--and this individual is--
Fantomas!" To formulate this conclusion was to give himself a thrilling
shock.... Since the disappearance of Juve, he had never had occasion to suspect
the presence, the intervention of Fantomas in connection with any of the crimes
he had investigated as reporter and student of human nature. Fantomas! The sound
of that name evoked the worst horrors! Fantomas! This bandit, this criminal who
has not shrunk from any cruelty, any horror--Fantomas is crime personified!
Fantomas! He sticks at nothing! Pronouncing these syllables of evil omen, Fandor
lived over again all the extraordinary, improbable, impossible things that had
really happened, and had put him on the watch for this terrifying assassin.
Fantomas! It was certain that to whatever degree he had participated in the
assassination of the Baroness de Vibray, one must not be astonished at anything;
neither at anything inconceivable, nor at any mysterious details connected with
the murder. Fantomas! He was the daring criminal--daring beyond all bounds of
credibility. And whatever might be the dexterity, the ingenuity, the ability,
the devotion of those who were pursuing him, such were his tricks, such his
craft and cunning, such the fertility of his invention, so well conceived his
devices, so great his audacity, that there were grounds for fearing he would
never be brought to justice, and punished for his abominable crimes! Fantomas!
Ah, if life ever brought Jerome Fandor and this bandit face to face, there would
ensue a struggle of every hour, day, and moment--a struggle of the most terrible
nature, a struggle in which man was pitted against man, a struggle without pity,
without mercy--a fight to the death! Fantomas would assuredly defend himself
with all the immense elusive powers at his command: Jerome Fandor would pursue
him with heart and soul, with his very life itself! It was not only to satisfy
his sense of duty at the promptings of honour that the journalist would take
action: he would have as guide for his acts, and to animate his will, the
passion of hate, and the hope of avenging his friend Juve, fallen a victim to
the mysterious blows of Fantomas. *       *       *       *       *

In his article for _La Capitale_ Fandor did not directly mention the possible
participation of Fantomas in the crime of the rue Norvins. When it was finished
he returned to his modest little flat on the fifth floor in the rue Bergere. He
was about to enter the vestibule, when he noticed a piece of paper, which must
have been slipped under his door. He stooped and picked up an envelope:

"Why, it is a letter--and there is no name and no stamp on it!" Entering his
study, he seated himself at his table and prepared to begin work. Then he
bethought him of the letter, which he had carelessly thrown on the mantelpiece.
He tore it open, and drew out a sheet of letter paper. "Whatever is this?" he
cried. His astonishment was natural enough, for the message was oddly put
together. To prevent his handwriting being recognised, Fandor's correspondent
had cut letters out of a newspaper, and had stuck them together in the desired
order. The two or three lines of printed matter were as follows:

"Jerome Fandor, pay attention, great attention! The affair on which      you are
concentrating all your powers is worthy of all possible      interest, but may
have terribly dangerous consequences." Of course there was no signature.
Evidently the warning referred to the Dollon case. "Why," exclaimed Fandor,
"this is simply an invitation not to busy myself hunting for the guilty
persons!... Who has sent this invitation and warning? Surely the sender is the
assassin, to whose interest it is that the inquiry into the rue Norvins murder
should be dropped!... It must be Jacques Dollon!... But how could Dollon know my
address? How could he have found time between his flight from the Depot and the
present minute, to put this message of printed letters together, and take it to
the rue Bergere?... And that at the risk of encountering someone who could
recognise him, and might have him arrested afresh? Had he accomplices?" Fandor
was puzzled, agitated:

"But I am mad!... mad! It cannot be Dollon!... Dollon is dead--dead as a door
nail--dead beyond dispute, because fifty men have seen him dead; dead, because
the Depot doctors have certified his death!" Daylight was fading; evening was
coming on; Fandor was still turning the whole affair over in his mind. Every now
and again he murmured:

"Fantomas! Fantomas has to do with this extraordinary, this mysterious affair!
Fantomas is in it!... Fantomas!" IV

A SURPRISING ITINERARY

Jerome Fandor had passed a bad night! Visions of horror had continually arisen
in his troubled mind. Between nightmare after nightmare he had heard all the
horrors of the night sound out in the darkness and the glimmering dawn. Then he
had fallen into a heavy sleep, which had left him on awaking broken with
fatigue. He had given himself a cold douche, and this had calmed his nerves;
then he had dressed quickly. When eight o'clock struck he was at his writing-
table, thinking things over:

"It's no laughing matter. I thought at first that the Dollon affair was quite
ordinary; but I am mistaken. The warning I received last night leaves me no
doubts on that head. Since the guilty person thinks it necessary to ask me to
keep quiet, it is evident he fears my intervention; if he is afraid of that it
is because it must be hurtful to him; if disastrous to him, a criminal, it is
evident that it must be useful to honest folk. My duty, then, is to go straight
ahead at all costs...."

There was another motive besides this of duty which incited him to follow more
closely the vicissitudes of the rue Norvins drama, a motive still indefinite,
vague, but nevertheless terribly strong....

Jerome Fandor had sworn to Elizabeth Dollon that he would get at the truth. He
recalled the girl's entreaty, her emotion; and when he closed his eyes, now and
again, he seemed to see before him the tall, graceful, fair and fascinating
sister of the vanished artist.... All Fandor would admit to himself was a
chivalrous feeling towards her--Elizabeth Dollon was worth putting himself out
for--that was all! Our journalist spent the entire morning seated at his
writing-table, his head between his hands, smoking cigarette after cigarette,
arranging his plans for investigating the Dollon case:

"What I have to find out is how the dead man left the Depot. It is the first
discovery to be made, the first impossibility to be explained--yes, and how am I
to set about it?" Suddenly Fandor jumped up, marched rapidly up and down his
room, whistled a few bars of a popular melody, and in his exuberant gaiety
attempted an operatic air in a voice deplorably out of tune. "There are eighty
chances out of a hundred that I shall not succeed," cried he; "but that still
leaves me twenty chances of arriving at a satisfactory result--let us make the
attempt!" As Fandor was hurrying off, he called to the portress in passing:

"Madame Oudry, I don't know whether I shall be back this evening or no. Perhaps
I may have to leave Paris for awhile, so would you be kind enough to pay
particular attention to any letters that may come for me--be very particular
about them, please!" Fandor went off. A thought struck him. He turned back. He
had something more to say to the good woman:

"I forgot to ask you whether anyone called to see me yesterday afternoon!" "No,
Monsieur Fandor, no one!" "Good! If by any chance a messenger should bring a
letter for me, look very carefully at him, Madame Oudry. I have a colleague or
two who are playing a joke on me, and I should not be sorry to get even with
them!" This time Fandor really went off, having set his portress on the alert.
In the rue Montmartre he hailed a cab:

"To the National Library! And as quick as you can!" *       *       *       *
*

"By Jove! It's three o'clock! I've not a minute to lose!" cried Fandor as he got
back his stick from the cloak-room of the National Library: he had handed it in
there some hours ago. He entered the rue Richelieu. Now for an ironmonger's
shop! He caught sight of one and went in:

"I should like fifty yards of fine cord, please; very strong and very pliable,"
said Fandor. The shopkeeper stared at the smart young man:

"What do you want it for, sir?... I have various qualities." Without the trace
of a smile, and as if it were the most natural thing in the world, he replied:

"It is for one of my friends: he wants to hang himself!" A shout of laughter was
the response to this witticism, and the amused shopkeeper forthwith displayed
various samples of cords. Fandor promptly made his choice and left the shop.
"Now for a watchmaker's!" said our journalist. He entered a jeweller's close by:

"I want an alarum clock--a small one--the cheapest you have!" Provided with his
alarum, Fandor looked at his watch again:

"Confound it all! It's half-past three!" he cried. He signalled to a closed cab:

"To the Palais de Justice! As hard as you can lick!" Directly Fandor was well
inside the vehicle, he drew down the blinds; took off his coat; unbuttoned his
waistcoat!... *       *       *       *       *

The great clock of the Palais de Justice had just struck four, and its silvery
tones were echoing harmoniously along the corridors when Jerome Fandor entered
the tradesman's gallery. He turned to the right, and gained the little lobby in
which the cloak-room is. He quietly entered it. Barristers were coming and
going, full of business, throwing off their gowns, inspecting the letters put
aside during the sittings of the Courts. Fandor made his way among the groups
with the ease of custom. He seemed to be looking for someone, and finished by
questioning one of the women employed in the cloak-room:

"Is Madame Marguerite not here?" "Oh, yes, monsieur, she is down below." Madame
Marguerite was an old friend of Fandor's. She was head of the cloak-room staff,
and by her kind offices she had often obtained an interview for our journalist
with one or other of the big-wigs of the bar, who generally object strongly to
being questioned by journalists. When she appeared, Fandor told her he only
wanted a little bit of information from her. "Oh, yes, I know all about that!
There is someone you wish to see, and you want me to manage it for you!" "No!
Not a bit of it! What I want to know is, where these gentlemen of the Court of
Justice robe and unrobe? I mean the Justices of the Assize Courts!" This seemed
to astonish Madame Marguerite considerably:

"But, Monsieur Fandor, if you wish to interview one of the puisne judges, it
would be ten times quicker for you to go and see him at his own home: here, at
the Palais, it's almost certain he will refuse to answer you...."

"Don't bother about that, Madame Marguerite! Just tell me where these worthy
guardians of order, defenders of right and justice, divest themselves of their
red robes?" Madame Marguerite was too much accustomed to our young journalist's
ridiculous questions and absurd requests and remarks to argue with him any
longer. "The robing-room of these gentlemen," said she, "is in one of the outer
offices of the court, near the Council Chamber." "There is an assistant in that
room, isn't there?" "Yes, Monsieur Fandor." "Ah! That is just what I wanted to
know! Many thanks, madame," and Fandor, grinning with satisfaction, made off in
the direction of the Court of Assizes. He ran up the steps leading to the
Council Chamber, and spying the messenger asked:

"Can President Guechand see me, do you think?" "Monsieur le President has gone."
Fandor seemed to be reflecting. He gazed searchingly round the room. As a matter
of fact, he was verifying the correctness of Madame Marguerite's information.
All round the room Fandor saw the little presses where the men of law kept their
red robes. Yes, it was the robing and unrobing room of the puisne judges, the
magistrates, right enough! "So the President has gone? Ah, well ..." Fandor
hesitated: he must think of some other name. He noticed the visiting cards
nailed to each press, indicating the owner. He read one of the names and
repeated it:

"Well, then, could Justice Hubert see me--could he possibly? Will you ask him to
let me see him for five minutes?" "What name shall I say?" "My name will not
tell him anything. Please say it is with reference to the--er--Peyru case--and I
come from Maitre Tissot." "I will go and see," said the messenger, moving off.
Whilst he was in sight Fandor walked up and down in the regulation way,
murmuring:

"Maitre Tissot!... The Peyru case!... Go ahead, my good fellow! You will have a
nice kind of reception down below there--with those made-up names." Some minutes
later, the messenger returned to his post, prepared to inform the importunate
young man that he could not possibly be received by Justice Hubert. He stopped
short on the threshold: not a soul was to be seen! "Wherever has that young man
got to? Taken himself off, most likely!... I expect he was one of those lawyer's
clerks--confound them! A nice fool I should have looked if his Honour, Justice
Hubert, had said he would receive him!" With this reflection the messenger went
back to his newspaper, not without having ascertained that it was four o'clock,
and therefore he had still an hour to wait before he could have his coffee and
cigar at the "Men of the Robe." *       *       *       *       *

Through the great windows of the Court of Assizes, carefully closed as they
were, not a ray of moonlight filtered into the court room. And this obscurity
lent an added terror to a silence as profound as the grave, a silence which,
with the falling shades of night, assumed possession of the vast hall, where so
many criminals had listened to the fatal sentence--the sentence of death. *
*       *       *       *

When the Court had risen, the assistants had, as usual, proceeded to put the
place in order; then the police sergeant had made his rounds, and had gone away,
double locking the doors behind him. After this the chamber had gradually sunk
into complete repose: a repose which would be broken the following morning when
the bustling routine of the legal day commenced once more. Little by little,
too, the many and varied noises, which had echoed and re-echoed the whole day
through in the galleries of the Palais de Justice, had died down, and sunk into
silence. The custodians had made their last round; the barristers had quitted
the robing-room; the poor wretches who had slunk in to warm themselves at the
heating apparatus in the halls had shuffled back to the cold street, and the
whistling blasts of the north wind. The immense pile was entirely deserted. A
clock began to strike. Then, hardly had the last stroke of eleven sounded,
awakening the echoes of the empty galleries, than in the Court of Assizes
itself, under the monumental desk, before which the justices sat in state by
day, a noise made itself heard, long, strident, nerve-racking--the noise of an
alarum clock! Just as the alarum ceased its raucous call, a loud yawn resounded
through the empty spaces of the chamber. The sleeper, who had selected this spot
that he might indulge, all undisturbed, in a revivifying sleep, evidently took
no pains to smother the sound of his voice, for, after yawning enough to
dislocate his jaws, he uttered a loud: "Ah!" He accompanied his yawns with
exclamations:

"It's a fact, the Republic doesn't do things up to the scratch! The rugs here
are of poor quality!... I'm aching all over!... The floor is strewn with peach
kernels--surely?... At any rate, it's a quiet hotel, and one is not disturbed--a
truly delectable refuge to have a jolly good snore in!" The sleeper sat up:

"What's the time exactly? Let us have a light on it!" A match was struck, and a
tiny flare of light shone from under the desk of the presiding judge:

"Ten past eleven! I've still five minutes to be lazy in--and I shall need all of
it, for I've a rough night before me! I can rest awhile, and think things over!"
The speaker calmly lay down again, trying to find a comfortable position on what
he christened mentally: "The administrative peach kernels":

"Let me see, now!" he went on aloud. "At five in the afternoon it was known that
Jacques Dollon had committed suicide; was probably innocent, and that his corpse
had disappeared. Yesterday, at half-past five, _La Capitale_ announced that he
had a very pretty sister.... To-night at ten past eleven behold me, shut up
quite alone in the Palais de Justice, free to proceed to the little
investigation I think of making.... Jerome Fandor, my dear friend, I
congratulate you! You have not managed badly!... "Yes," went on our journalist,
"what a joke it is! Here have I got myself shut up in the Palais without the
slightest difficulty! It is true, that if the assistant had been obliged to
open, and verify, the contents of all the robing-rooms of all the judges, he
would never have finished. As for me, in my cupboard, I followed all the good
fellow's movements, and he never suspected my presence. If I am to be
congratulated, he cannot be blamed for it! There I was, there I remained, and
now I must be off!" Fandor drew a small wax taper from his pocket and lighted it
with a match. "What's to be done with the alarum?" he went on. "To leave it will
be to betray my having passed this way--what of it?... In any case, even if this
reporting job fails, I shall make a story out of it ... and how can they accuse
me of stealing if I leave my cloak as a gift for his judgeship!" Laughing,
Fandor piled up the law books lying on the desk, and placed the alarum on the
top; that done, he went to the principal entrance, the only one with double
doors. He seized the heavy iron bar placed across the door and worked it loose.
He drew the two leaves of the door towards him; and, although it had been locked
as usual, he effected his escape, after a considerable trial of strength. Out on
the stairs, lighted taper in hand, the laughing Fandor closed the two leaves of
the door with the utmost care, and went forward whistling a marching tune. His
objective was a certain little staircase leading to the top story of the Palais,
and this he mounted with vigorous determination. There was no likelihood of
chance encounters, for there was not a soul in the vast building: the police
were making their rounds outside it. Our adventurous journalist did not make his
way upwards with stealthy tread--there was no need for that. Having gained the
top floor, he went straight to a corner where an ebony ladder was ensconced, a
ladder which had long been the joy and pride of the grand master of this part of
the Palais, the amiable Monsieur Peter. "Pretty heavy!" grumbled Fandor, as he
carried it upwards. Under the roof he caught sight of a skylight, rested his
ebony ladder against it, and climbed briskly on to the roof. From thence Fandor
had a view that was fairy-like. Spread out in the distance were the sparkling
lights of Paris. He was divided from them by the vast mass of roofs about him,
by a gulf of empty space, and beyond, by a dark blur--the two arms of the Seine
flowing on either side of the Palais de Justice.... The mysterious darkness! The
fascination of the sparkling points of light!... Fandor gave himself a mental
shake.... This was no moment for dreaming under the stars! From his pocket he
took a tiny, folding dark lantern; from his pocket-book he drew a paper, which
he spread out and proceeded to study. As he bent over it, he murmured:

"A bit of good luck that I was able to get hold of a complete and detailed plan
of the Palais de Justice! Without it I never could have found my way among these
roofs!" He examined the plan for some minutes; made a note of various landmarks;
then refolding it, he gained one of the sloping roofs facing the quay of the
Leather Dressers:

"Now," thought Fandor, "I must be just above the Depot! And now to find out how
Jacques Dollon, dead or living, has got out of the Depot! No use thinking of a
window, for the cell has not got one! Fuselier has reason on his side when he
declares that you do not get out of the cells of the Depot, nor out of the
Palais!... Well, now--to carry off Dollon, dead or living, by way of the Palais
Square, or by the boulevard, is out of the question: there are too many people
about!... To carry him off by one of the exits, on to either of the quays, is
equally out of the question: there are the sentries, in the first place, and
then comes the Seine--then Jacques Dollon has left the Depot, or he has not, or,
at any rate, he is still somewhere in the Palais--unless ..."

Fandor interrupted his cogitations to light a cigarette: smoking helped him to
think things out:

"It is equally certain that if Dollon is still in the Palais, he cannot be in
the Depot, for the Depot has been rigorously searched since his disappearance,
and he would most certainly have been found, had he been anywhere about the
Depot. It is also certain that he is not inside the Palais, because the only
means of communication between the Depot and the Palais is a single staircase,
and it is certain that a corpse could not have been taken that way
unperceived.... Then it follows that Jacques Dollon must have got out by the
only ways which are in communication with the Depot: that is to say, the drains
and the chimneys!" "How could he have got out, or been got out by the drains? As
far as I know, there is no system of pipes large enough to allow of the passage
of a man through the pipes which join the main sewers; but, as a set-off to
that, there is a chimney--the ancient chimney of Marie Antoinette--which
communicates with the Depot, and the roof I am now on: it must have been by this
chimney that the escape was made! Let us see whether this is so or not!" By the
light of his tiny dark lantern Fandor studied afresh the plan of the Palais, and
tried to identify the various chimneys about him. He soon picked out the orifice
of Marie Antoinette's chimney. After a considering glance at it, he remarked:

"That's odd! Here is the only chimney whose opening is below the ledge of the
roofs! It is certain that unless one had been warned, and had examined this roof
from some neighbouring building, the orifice of this chimney would not be
noticed. If Jacques Dollon passed out by it, no one would notice his exit!" Our
journalist continued his examination, full of excitement. Surely he was on the
right track! "Ah! Ah! Here are stones freshly scraped and scratched!" he cried
delightedly. "And this white mark is just the kind of mark which would be made
by a cord scraping against the wall! And look what a size this chimney is! It's
not only one Jacques Dollon who could pass out by it, but two! But three! A
whole army! Ah, ha, I believe I am on the right track! Now for it!" Fandor bent
over and looked down the interior of the chimney; and, at the risk of toppling
over, he managed to reach something he saw shining in the darkness of the
opening; he drew himself up, radiant:

"By Jove! There are irons fixed in the walls of the chimney to climb up and down
by; and, what is more, they bear traces of a recent passage--the rust has been
rubbed off here and there!... Yes, it is by this way Dollon has come out!... To
whom else could it be an advantage to use this as an exit from the interior of
the Palais, on to the roofs?" Fandor was keen on the scent! Here, indeed, was
matter for an article which would bring him into notice--good business for a
journalist! "If Dollon had been alive," reflected Fandor, "it is evident that,
once on the roofs, he had a choice of three ways to escape: he could do what I
have just done, but the other way about; he could break a skylight, jump into a
garret, and lie hidden under the tiles, awaiting the propitious moment when he
could gain the corridors below and, mingling with the crowd, slip unobserved
into the street; or, he could hide among the roofs, and stay there; or, he could
search for an opening--one of those air holes which put the cellars and drains
in communication with the exterior.... But I have come to the conclusion that
Dollon is dead! Then his corpse could only remain up here; or, it has been put
down into some place where nobody goes. The garrets of the Palais are so
incessantly visited by the clerks and registrars that no corpse could remain
undiscovered in any of them. Therefore, either Jacques Dollon's corpse is
somewhere on the roofs of the Palais, or there is some sort of communication
between the roofs and the drains--it is obvious!" Evidently the next step was to
search every hole and corner of these same roofs. Armed with revolver and
lantern, Fandor started on his tour of investigation; but prudently, for he was
now almost certain that there were a number of accomplices involved in this
Dollon affair. To go carefully over the enormous roof of the Palais de Justice
was no light task! One has only to consider the immensity of this monumental
pile, its complicated architecture, the numberless little courts enclosed within
its vast confines, to understand the difficulties with which our intrepid
journalist had to contend. But Jerome Fandor was not the man to be discouraged
in the face of difficulties: he was determined to brave them--conquer them! He
examined, minutely, the entire roofing of the Palais; he did not leave a corner
or a morsel of shadow unexplored; there was not a gutter which he had not
searched from end to end. When, after two hours of strenuous exertion, he
returned to his starting-point, the chimney of Marie Antoinette, he was fain to
confess that if Jacques Dollon had mounted to the roof of the Palais de Justice
he certainly had not remained there. Fandor unfolded his plan once more. It
fluttered in the night breeze, as he carefully numbered all the chimneys opening
on to this roof; then, one by one, he identified them with the real chimneys
before his eyes. He exclaimed joyfully:

"There, now! It's just what I suspected!" He had discovered there was one
chimney not down on the plan: "Whither did it lead?" At all costs he must find
out--make sure. He hastened to this extra chimney. Its orifice was large enough
to allow of the passage of a man; also, here again, stones had been recently
loosened, and a rope had rubbed against them:

"What the deuce is this chimney?" thought Fandor. "Another mystery! This chimney
is not a chimney; there is not a trace of soot on it, even old soot!" After a
moment's reflection, he added:

"Can it be for ventilation only? But a ventilation hole could only communicate
with one of the apartments in the Palais itself, and how the deuce could they
drop a corpse down there? It would have been in the highest degree imprudent to
attempt it! No, it is not by that road they have carried off Dollon's body! But
then by what way?" He glued his ear to the chimney. After a while, Fandor could
make out a vague, intermittent sound--could catch a little, far-away, plashing
sound. "Can the chimney communicate with the Seine?" he asked himself. "No, we
are too far off it. Why this opening, then?... Ah, I have it! It is a drain, a
sewer, it communicates with!" To verify that, there was nothing for it but to
descend this chimney, which was no chimney! So be it!... Fandor took off his
coat, and uncovered the long, fine cord, rolled round and round his middle.
Weighting the cord with a flint, he let it slide down the chimney, testing the
straightness of the descent by the balanced oscillations of the stone, and so
ascertaining the even size of the opening, as far as the line would go. This was
the work of a few minutes. Fandor did not hesitate: he was eager to embark on
the descent. "After all," he murmured, "though I may find myself face to face
with a band of assassins--what of it? It is all in the night's risks!" He
fastened the end of the cord to one of the neighbouring chimneys--fastened it
firmly; then, his revolver handily stuck in his belt, Fandor seized the cord,
twisted it round his legs, and let himself slowly down through the narrow
opening. It was a perilous descent! Fandor did not know whether his cord was
long enough, and, lost in the darkness, with only the gleam of light from his
lantern to guide him, he was naturally afraid of reaching the end of his rope
unawares, and of falling into the black void beneath. But what he observed in
the course of his descent excited him so much that he almost forgot the danger
he was running. To those at all practised in police detective work, it was clear
as daylight that men had passed this way, and recently. "Here is a dislodged
stone," muttered Fandor. "And here are scrapes and scratches--fresh ... and ...
that mark looks like blood!" Pushing his knees and his shoulders against the
wall to support himself and stay his movements, he examined the mark. There was
no doubt possible: Fandor's sharp eyes and the lantern's light had picked out a
little red patch, which sullied one of the projecting stones in the chimney
walls:

"This," reflected our amateur detective, "only confirms Dollon's death: if the
wound which caused this mark had been made by a living body, the mark would have
been larger, and there would have been others, for it must come from an abrasion
of the skin made during the descent. But this blood mark has resulted from a
dead body knocking against the stones of the wall: it is not a mark make by
flowing blood, but by blood crushed out." He descended a few yards further:

"Here's a find!" he cried. He had just perceived some hairs sticking to the
rough surface of the stones. Again, with arched shoulders and bent knees, he
supported himself against the wall, examined his discovery, left half the hairs
where they were, took the rest, and carefully placed them in his pocket-book:

"The police must not be able to say that I have arranged this for their
benefit," Fandor remarked. "Cost what it may, if I do not come across Dollon's
corpse below, I must find out to-morrow whether these hairs resemble his."
Fandor went on descending, and first in one place, then in another, he saw on
the walls of this chimney whitish patches such as might have been caused by the
passage of a heavy mass or body, hanging at the end of a rope, and striking
against the walls on its way down. Whilst he still believed himself to be some
distance off the end of his downward journey, he felt a point of resistance
beneath his feet. At first he mistook it for firm ground, much to his surprise.
He was about to leave go of his cord when a remnant of prudence restrained him:

"How do I know there is not an abyss depths upon depths below me--down into the
very bowels of the earth! I had better take care!" What Fandor had taken for
firm ground was nothing but an iron staple projecting from the wall. Fandor
seized it, stopped for a minute or two's breathing space, ascertained, by
drawing it up, that of his cord there were only a few yards remaining; but he
also perceived, and with what relief, that from where he was resting, downwards
the chimney was, as far as he could see by his lantern's light, marked off into
regular spaces by these iron staples which are sometimes placed there for the
use of chimney cleaners and masons. Fandor found them a most convenient kind of
ladder. The descent now became easy, and in a short time our adventurous
journalist reached the bottom of the chimney. At first he could not understand
where he had got to. In the thick gloom around him his lantern's gleam of light
showed him a kind of vaulted wall of massive masonry. He advanced a step or two
with noiseless tread, listening, on the alert. Not a sound could he hear: he
decided to expose the full light of his lantern. The brighter light showed him
that the chimney from which he was now standing some yards away ended in a kind
of sewer, evidently no longer in use; and the plashing sound he had heard on the
far up heights of the Palais roofs proceeded from a thin and muddy stream of
water flowing in the middle of the sewer channel in the direction of the Seine.
Kneeling at the foot of the chimney Fandor could distinguish marks of steps made
by human feet; much deeper and very different indentations were visible also:

"Not only have men passed this way but a short while ago," he murmured, "but
they were carrying a heavy burden: there are two kinds of footmarks, made by two
kinds of shoes, and the heels have made much deeper marks in the soil than have
the tips--yes, these men bore a heavy burden!" Fandor was so pleased that he
mentally rubbed his hands over this discovery. His quest was a success so far:
he was on the track of Dollon's body! And what copy for _La Capitale_! Then a
sad thought came to dim his delight:

"Poor, poor Elizabeth Dollon! I swore to her I would get at the truth--and a
lamentable truth it is! Her brother is dead: he died in the Depot: he was done
to death--it was no suicide!" Whilst talking to himself Fandor was scrutinising
every inch of the ground as he moved forward: there might be fresh clues:

"It's a queer kind of sewer," he went on. "This streamlet is as much mud as
water, is almost stagnant. Evidently this underground sewer way is no longer
used--has been abandoned!" A horrid spectacle struck him motionless. His lantern
made visible a struggling, heaving mass of rats, fighting tooth and claw,
enormous rats devouring some hidden thing! Fandor's stomach rose at the sight.
Oh, horror! Could it be Jacques Dollon's body? Fandor snatched up a stone and
flung it furiously among the unclean beasts. They fled. On the ground he could
distinguish a mass, a red, formless mass, saturated with congealed blood:

"Assuredly, if the corpse has disappeared, it is there the assassins must have
cut it in pieces, that they might carry it more easily, and those vile creatures
are in the thick of feasting on the poor victim's remains!... Pouah!" Fandor
moved on, only to discover another pool of blood almost as large, also besieged
by rats:

"Evidently I shall find nothing else," thought Fandor: "the corpse no longer
exists!" He continued his advance, determined to find out what this underground
way ended in. His lantern was flickering to a finish when he arrived at the end
of the sewer and found, as he had foreseen, that its opening had been cut in the
steep bank of the Seine:

"That's a bit of luck! I can get out this way instead of having to climb back
the way I came, up to the Palais roof and down again!" It was still night;
darkness reigned save on the far horizon, where a faint, whitish line indicated
the early dawn of an April day. Fandor was just asking himself by what gymnastic
feat he could regain the quay, and he was leaning over the opening of the sewer,
his body bending far forward over the inky waters of the Seine. Before he had
time to turn, before he could regain his balance, a brutal blow from behind half
stunned him, and a vigorous thrust precipitated his body into the Seine. V

MOTHER TOULOUCHE AND CRANAJOUR

"Come along, Cranajour! Let's have a sight of what they've given you for the
frock coat and the whole outfit!" The person thus challenged rummaged in the
pockets of his old, much-patched and filthy garments, and after interminable
fumblings and huntings, finished by extracting a certain number of silver
pieces, which he counted over with the greatest care, finally he replied:

"Seventeen francs, Mother Toulouche." Mother Toulouche showed her impatience:

"It's details I want! How much for the coat? How much for the whole suit? I've
got to know, I tell you! I've got to write it all down, and I've got to see how
much I've to hand over to each of the owners of the duds!... Try to remember,
Cranajour!" The individual who answered to this odd appellation reflected. After
a silence, shrugging his shoulders, he replied:

"I don't know. I can't make myself remember--not anyhow!... And it's a long time
since I sold the goods!" Mother Toulouche shrugged in turn:

"A long time!" she grumbled. "What a wretched job! Why, it's only two hours
since--barely that!... It's true," she went on, with a pitying look at the
shabby, down-at-heel fellow, who had spread out his seventeen francs on the
table, "it's true that you're known not to have two ha'p'orths of memory, and
that at the end of an hour you have forgotten what you've done!" "That's right
enough," answered Cranajour. "Let's have done with it, then," cried Mother
Toulouche. She held out a repulsive-looking specimen of old clothes:

"Be off with you! Go and pawn this academician's cast-off! When the comrades
catch a sight of this bit of stuff to the fore, they'll understand they can come
without danger!... No cops about the store on the lookout, are there?" Mother
Toulouche took the precaution to advance to the threshold of her store, cast a
rapid glance around--not a suspicious person, nor a sign of one to be seen:

"A good thing," muttered she, "but I was sure of it! Those police spies are
going to give us some peace for a bit!... Likely the whole lot of them are on
this Dollon business! Isn't it so, Cranajour?" As she retreated into her store
again Mother Toulouche knocked against that individual, who had not budged: he
had hung over his arm respectfully the miserable bit of stuff that had been
styled an academician's robe:

"Well, what are you waiting for?" asked she sharply. "Nothing...."

"What are you going to do with that?" Cranajour seemed to reflect:

"Haven't I told you," grumbled Mother Toulouche, "to go and stick it up
outside?... Don't say you've gone and forgotten already!" "No, no!" protested
Cranajour, hastening to obey orders. "What a specimen!" thought Mother
Toulouche, whilst counting over the seventeen francs. Cranajour was a remarkably
queer fish, beyond question. How had he got into connection with Mother
Toulouche and her intimates? That remained a mystery. One fine day this seedy
specimen of humanity was found among the "comrades" exchanging vague remarks
with one and another. He stuck to them in all their shifting from this place to
that: no one had been able to get out of him what his name was, nor where he
came from, for he was afflicted with a memory like a sieve--he could not
remember things for two hours together. A feeble-minded, poor sort of fellow,
with not a halfpenny's worth of wickedness in him, always ready to do a hand's
turn for anyone: to judge by his looks he might have been any age between forty
and seventy, for there is nothing like privations and misery to alter the looks
of a man! Faced by this queer fish, with a brain like a sieve, they had
christened him "Crane a jour"--and the nickname had stuck to this anonymous
individual. Besides, was not Cranajour the most complaisant of fellows, the
least exacting of collaborators--always content with what was given him, always
willing to do his best! As to Mother Toulouche; she kept a little shop on the
quay of the Clock. The sign over her little store read:

"_For the Curiosity Lover._"

This alluring title was not justified by anything to be found inside this store,
which was nothing but a common pick-up-anything shop: it was a receptacle for a
hideous collection of lumber, for old broken furniture, for garments past decent
wear, for indescribable odds and ends, where the wreckage of human misery lay
huddled cheek by jowl with the beggarly offscourings of Parisian destitution.
Behind the store, whose little front faced the edge of the quay and looked over
the Seine, was a sordid back-shop: here the pallet of Mother Toulouche, a
kitchen stove out of order, and the overflow of the goods which were crowded out
of the store were jumbled up in ill-smelling disorder. This back-shop
communicated with the rue de Harlay by a narrow dark passage; thus the lair of
old Mother Toulouche had two outlets, nor were they superfluous; in fact, they
were indispensable for such as she--ever on the alert to escape the inquisitive
attentions of the police, ever receiving visitors of doubtful morals and
thoroughly bad reputation. Mother Toulouche's quarters comprised not only the
two stores, but a cellar both large and deep, to which one obtained access by a
staircase pitch dark, crooked, and everlastingly covered with moisture, owing to
the proximity of the river. The floor of the cellar was a kind of noisome
cesspool: one slipped on the greasy mud--floundered about in it: for all that,
this cellar was almost entirely filled with cases of all kinds, with queer-
looking bundles, with objects of various shapes and sizes. Evidently the jumble
store of Mother Toulouche did not confine itself to the rough-and-ready shop in
the front; and, into the bargain, this basement might be used as a safe hiding-
place in an emergency, a precious refuge for whoever might feel it necessary to
cover his tracks, and thus escape the investigations of the police, for
instance! Mother Toulouche, as a matter of fact, needed such premises as hers:
if she took ceaseless precautions it was because she had a reason for her uneasy
watchfulness. Mother Toulouche had already come into involuntary contact with
the police; and her last and most serious encounter with them went as far back
as those days of renown when the band of Numbers had as their chief the
mysterious hooligan Loupart, also known under the name of Dr. Chaleck. [4] She
had been arrested for complicity in a bank-note robbery, had been tried, and had
been sentenced to twenty-two months' imprisonment. [Footnote 4: See _The
Exploits of Juve_.] Not turned in the slightest degree from the error of her
ways, and possessing some money, which she had kept carefully hidden, Mother
Toulouche had decided to set up shop close to the Palais de Justice, that Great
House where those gentlemen of the robe judged and condemned poor folk! She
would say:

"Being so close to the red-robed I shall end by making the acquaintance of one
or two of them, and that may turn out a good job for me one of these days!" But
this was merely a blind, for other considerations had led to Mother Toulouche
renting this shop on the Isle of the City, in opening on the quay of the Clock,
a quay but little frequented, her wretched jumble store of odds and ends. She
had kept in touch with the band of Numbers, which had gradually come together
again as soon as the various numbers of it had finished serving their time. For
a while they had lived unmolested, but lately misfortunes had laid a heavy hand
on the group. Still, as the band began to break up, other members came to
replace those who had disappeared, either temporarily or for good and all. At
any rate, they could safely count on the assistance of an individual more
valuable to them than anyone; this was a man named Nibet, who although he
intervened but seldom, could, thanks to his influence, save the band many
annoyances. This Nibet held an honourable official position; he was a warder at
the Depot. *       *       *       *       *

Whilst Mother Toulouche, from the back of her store, was watching with a
derisive air the good-natured Cranajour fasten up the Academician's robe in a
prominent position on the front of her nondescript emporium, someone stepped
inside, and warmly greeted Mother Toulouche with a:

"Good day, old lady!" It was big Ernestine,[5] who explained volubly that for a
good half hour she had been prowling about near the statue of Henry IV, keeping
the store well in view, but not daring to approach until the usual signal had
been displayed. Those who frequented the place knew that when the store was
under police observation and Mother Toulouche feared a raid she took care to
hang out any kind of old clothes; but if the way was clear, if no lurking police
were on the lookout, then the rallying flag would be hoisted, the flag being the
old, patched, rusty, musty Academician's robe. [Footnote 5: See _The Exploits of
Juve_.] Ernestine had arrived looking thoroughly upset:

"Have you heard the latest?" she cried, "the bad news?" "What news? Whose news?"
questioned Mother Toulouche. "Why, that poor Emilet has come down a regular
cropper!" "The poor fellow!... He isn't smashed up, is he?" Mother Toulouche
lifted her hands. "I haven't heard anything more than what I've told you!"
Consternation was on the faces of the two women. Their good Mimile! He who knew
how to take care of himself without leaving a comrade in the lurch, who stuck to
them, working for the common good. A few years previous to this Mimile, having
refused to conform to military law, had been arrested in the tavern of a certain
Father Korn during a particularly drastic police raid, and the defaulting youth
had been straightway put under the penal military discipline administered to
such as he. Instead of making himself notorious by his execrable conduct as
those in his position generally did, he behaved like a little saint. Having thus
made a reputation to trade on, he was twice able to steal the money from the
regimental chest without a shadow of suspicion falling on him, and, what was
worse, two of his innocent comrades had been accused of the crime, had been
condemned and shot in his stead! Owing to his good conduct Mimile had been
transferred to a regiment stationed in Algiers, and having a considerable amount
of spare time on his hands, he got into close touch with the aeroplane
mechanics. He was very much at home in this branch of work: could not Mimile
demolish a lock as easily as one rolls a cigarette? He was daring to a degree,
and, as soon as his time in the army was up, he began to earn his living as an
aviator, and rightly, for he had become an able airman. Nevertheless, Mimile
become Emilet, had aspired to greater things: a humdrum honest livelihood was
not to his taste! He had come to the conclusion that provided he went warily
nothing could be easier than to carry on a lucrative smuggling trade by
aeroplane: he could fly from country to country under the pretext that he was
out to make records in flying. Custom-house officials and police inspectors in
the interior would never think of examining the tubes of a flying machine, to
see whether or no they were packed with lace; nor would it occur to them to
overhaul certain cells fore and aft to discover whether things of value had been
secreted in them, such as thousands of matches or false coin. So, from time to
time, Mimile would announce that he was off on a trial trip to Brussels from
Paris, from London to Calais, and so on. For mechanics Mimile had two brokendown
sharpers, who served as connecting links between the aviator and the band of
smugglers and false coiners who gathered at the lair of Mother Toulouche under
the seal of secrecy. This was why big Ernestine was so anxious when she heard of
Mimile's accident. Had the aeroplane been totally wrecked? Would the very
considerable prize of Malines lace they were expecting reach its destination
safe and sound? For some time past ill-luck had pursued them, had seemed to
pursue implacably these unfortunates who took such pains and precautions to
carry through their unlawful operations to a successful issue. Already the
Cooper, a member of the confraternity who had had his glorious hour in the
famous days of Chaleck and Loupart, had scarcely left prison retirement before
he had been nabbed again, owing to the far too sharp eyes of the French custom-
house officials on the Belgian frontier. Others of the band were also under lock
and key again: it really seemed as if Mother Toulouche and her circle were being
strictly watched by the police ... and now here was Emilet who had come a
regular cropper in his aeroplane--no doubt about it! Mother Toulouche was set on
knowing the rights of it:

"But what has happened to Emilet exactly?" She called Cranajour. The queer
fellow came forward from the back store, where he had been loafing: he had a
bewildered air. "Cranajour," said Mother Toulouche, putting a sou in his hand,
"hurry off and buy me an evening paper! Now be quick about it!... Don't
forget.... Make a knot in your handkerchief to remind a stupid head!" "Oh, don't
be afraid, Mother Toulouche," declared Cranajour, "I shan't forget!" He nodded
to big Ernestine, and vanished as by magic into the darkness, for night had
fallen. Scarcely had Cranajour gone, than a surly looking individual slipped
into the store, not by the quay entrance, but through the back store, to which
he had gained access by the dark passage leading to the rue de Harlay. His
collar was turned up as though he were cold; his cap was drawn well over his
eyes, thus his face was almost entirely hidden. Having barred the door on the
quay side of the store, Mother Toulouche joined big Ernestine and the newcomer:

"Well, Nibet, anything fresh?" she asked. Removing his cap and lowering his
collar Nibet's crabbed visage glowered on the two women: it was the Depot warder
right enough:

"Bad," he growled between his teeth: "Things are hot right at the Palais!"
"Things to worry about--to do with comrades committed for trial?" questioned big
Ernestine. Nibet shrugged and threw a glance of disdain at the girl:

"You're going silly! It's this Dollon mess-up!" The warder gave them an account
of what had happened. The two women were all ears, as they followed Nibet's
story of events which had thrown the whole legal world into a state of
commotion: incomprehensible occurrences, which threatened to turn an ordinary
murder case into one of the most mysterious and most popular of assassination
dramas. Mother Toulouche and big Ernestine were well aware that Nibet knew much
more than he had told them about the details of the Dollon-Vibray affair; but
they dared not cross-examine the warder who was in a nasty mood--nor did the
announcement of Emilet's accident add to his gaiety! "It just wanted that!" he
grunted: "And those bundles of lace were to turn up this evening too!" "Who is
to bring them?" asked big Ernestine. "The Sailor," declared Nibet. "And who is
to receive them?" demanded Mother Toulouche. "I and the Beadle," answered Nibet
in a surly tone. "Come to think of it," went on Nibet, staring hard at big
Ernestine, "where _is_ that man of yours--the Beadle?" *       *       *       *
*

Like someone who had been running at top speed Cranajour, who had been gone
about an hour on his newspaper-buying errand, drew up panting before the dark
little entry leading from the rue de Harlay to the den of Mother Toulouche. He
slipped into the passage; but instead of rejoining the old storekeeper he began
to mount a steep and tortuous staircase, which led up to the many floors of the
house. He climbed up to the seventh story; turned the key of a shaky door, and
entered an attic whose skylight window opened obliquely in the sloping roof.
This poverty-stricken chamber was the domicile of the queer fellow who passed
his daylight hours in the company of Mother Toulouche, hobnobbing with a hole-
and-corner crew, cronies of the old receiver of stolen goods. Overheated with
running, Cranajour unbuttoned his coat, opened his shirt, sprinkled his face and
the upper part of his body with cold water, sponged the perspiration from his
brow, and brushed the dust off his big shoes. It was a clear starlight night. To
freshen himself up still more he put his head and shoulders out of the half-
opened window. He was gazing at the roofs facing him; suddenly he started, and
his eyes gleamed. They were the roofs, outlined against the night sky, of the
Palais de Justice. There was a shadow on the roof of the great pile, a shadow
which moved to and fro, passing from one roof ridge to another, now vanishing
behind a chimney, now coming into view again. Anxiously Cranajour followed the
odd movements of the mysterious individual who was making his lofty and lonely
promenade up above there. "What the devil does it mean?" soliloquised the
watcher. Whoever could have seen Cranajour at this moment would have been struck
by the marked change produced in his physiognomy. This was not the Cranajour of
the wandering eye, the silly smile, the stupid face, known to Mother Toulouche
and her cronies; it was a transformed Cranajour, mobile of feature, lively of
movement, a sharp, keen-witted Cranajour! Veritably another man! Puzzled by the
vagaries of the promenader on the Palais roofs, Cranajour followed his movements
intently for a few minutes longer. He would have remained at the window the
whole night long had the unknown persisted in his peregrinations; but Cranajour
saw him climb to the top of a chimney, a wide one, lower himself slowly into the
opening of it, and then vanish from view! Cranajour waited a while in hopes that
the unknown would not be long in coming out of his mysterious hiding-place
again. He waited and expected in vain: the roofs of the Palais resumed their
ordinary aspect: solitude reigned there. *       *       *       *       *

Not long afterwards Cranajour re-entered the back store. "What a time you have
been!" cried Mother Toulouche: "You've brought the newspaper, haven't you?"
Cranajour looked at the little company with his most stupid expression and then
lowered his eyes:

"My goodness, I've forgotten to buy one!" he cried. Nibet, who had paid but
scant attention to the new arrival, continued his conversation with big
Ernestine: they were talking about her lover, nicknamed the Beadle. He was a
terrible individual this Beadle! Though his nickname suggested a peaceful
occupation, he really owed it to the frightful reputation he had won as a
"_bell-ringer_"; but the bells big Ernestine's lover was in the habit of ringing
were unfortunate pedestrians whom he would rob and half murder, beating them
unmercifully about the head and body. Sometimes he would beat them to within an
ace of their last gasp: occasionally he would beat the life out of them
altogether if they tried to resist his brutal attacks. The Beadle was an
Apache[6] of the first order of brutality. [Footnote 6: Hooligan.] Big Ernestine
finished explaining to Nibet that he must not count on the Beadle that evening,
for things were so queer and uncertain, the outlook was so gloomy that no one
knew what bad business they might be in for. Mother Toulouche asked if he had
got mixed up in the Dollon affair. Cranajour cocked his ear at that, whilst
pretending to put a great bundle of old clothes in order. But Nibet replied:

"The Beadle has nothing whatever to do with that business.... I know what I know
about all that.... He's afraid of getting what the Cooper got, so he keeps away.
He's not far out either--you've got to be careful these days--queer times!"
Ernestine and Mother Toulouche bewailed the Cooper's fate:

"Poor fellow! No sooner out of quod than back--only a fortnight's liberty! And
with a vile accusation fastened to him--smuggling and coining!" Nibet tried to
relieve their minds:

"Haven't I told you," growled he, "that I'm going to get Maitre Henri Robart to
defend him? He knows how to get round juries: he'll get the Cooper off with an
easy sentence." Nibet looked at his watch:

"It will soon be half-past two! Got to go down! The boatman will be there before
long, at the mouth of the sewer!" Mother Toulouche, who was always in a flurry
when smuggled goods were to be unloaded in her cellars, tried to dissuade Nibet:

"You'll never be able to manage it by yourself!" Nibet glanced at Cranajour. The
warder hesitated, then said:

"Since there's no one else, couldn't I take Cranajour with me?" At first
objections were raised; there was a low-voiced discussion, so that the simpleton
might not catch what they were saying: Cranajour had never been up to dodges of
this kind: so far he had been kept out of them; besides, he was such a senseless
cove, he might give things away, make a hash of it! Nibet smiled:

"Why, it's just because he is such a simpleton, and because he hasn't a mite of
memory that we can use him safely!" "That's true!" said Mother Toulouche,
somewhat reassured. She called to Cranajour:

"Come along, Cranajour, and just tell us where you dined this evening!" The
simpleton seemed to make a prodigious effort of memory, seized his head between
his hands, closed his eyes, and racked his brains: after quite a long silence,
he declared emphatically and with a distressed air:

"Faith, I can't tell you now!" Nibet, who had closely watched this performance,
nodded:

"It's quite all right," he said. The cellars below Mother Toulouche's store were
extensive, dark, and ill-smelling. The walls glistened with exuding damp, and
the ground was a sticky mass of foul mud, of all sorts of refuse, of putrefying
matter. Nibet, followed by his companion, made his way down to them: it was no
easy descent, for they had to climb over cases of all kinds, and over bales and
bundles that moved and rolled about. They passed into a smaller cellar, around
which were ranged long boxes of tin with rusty covers. Cranajour, who had been
given the lantern to carry, was attracted to these boxes: he lifted the cover of
one of them and drew back wonderstruck, for the box was full of shining gold
pieces! Nibet, with a jab and thrust in the back, interrupted Cranajour's
contemplation of this fortune:

"Nothing to faint over!" he growled. "You're not such a simpleton then! You know
the value of yellow boys? All right, then, I'll give you one or two, if you do
your job all right! But," continued the warder, leading his companion to the
further end of the second cellar, "you will have to look out if you present your
banker with one of those pieces, for the little bits of shiny won't pass
everywhere--you've got to keep your eye open--and jolly wide, too!" Cranajour
nodded comprehension:

"False money! False money!" he murmured. There was a very strong big door: an
iron bar kept it closed. Nibet raised it with Cranajour's help. Through the door
the two men passed into a long dark passage, swept by a sharp rush of air. The
floor of it was paved, and at the side of it flowed a pestilential stream,
carrying along in its slow-moving water a quantity of miscellaneous filth: it
was thick as soup with impurities. "The little collecting sewer of the Cite,"
whispered Nibet. Pointing to a grey patch in the distance he put his mouth to
Cranajour's ear:

"See the daylight yonder? That's where the sewer discharges itself into the
Seine: it's there the boatman and his load will be waiting for us presently."
Nibet stopped dead; drew Cranajour back by the sleeve, and stepped stealthily
backwards to the massive doors of the cellar. An unaccustomed noise had alarmed
the warder. In profound silence the two men stood listening intently. There was
no mistake! The sound of sharp regular steps could be clearly heard coming from
that part of the sewer opposite the opening. "Someone!" said Cranajour, who was
all on the alert, as he had been in his attic, watching the shadow and its
vagaries on the roofs of the Palais de Justice. Nibet nodded. The light from a
dark lantern gleamed on the damp, slimy walls of the subterranean passageway.
"Come inside," murmured Nibet, in an almost inaudible voice; and, with infinite
precaution, he closed the massive portal between the cellar and the sewer-way.
In safe hiding the two men could watch the approaching intruder: they had
extinguished their lantern, and were peering through the badly joined wood of
the solid door. Friend or foe? An individual moved into view. The reflected
light of his lantern lit up the vaulting of the sewer-way, and showed up his
face. The man was young, fair, wore a small moustache! Hardly had he passed the
cellar door when Nibet gripped Cranajour's arm and growled--intense rage was
expressed in grip and tone--"It's he! Again! The journalist of the Dollon
affair, of the Depot business--Jerome Fandor! Ah.... This time we'll see!..."
Nibet's hand plunged into his trouser pocket. Cranajour was eagerly watching the
warder's every movement: he clearly heard the sharp snap of a pocket-knife--a
long sharp knife--a deadly weapon! Giving prudence the go-by, Nibet had opened
the door, and dragging Cranajour in his wake had rushed into the sewer-way, hard
on the heels of the journalist, who was slowly going in the direction of the
Seine. Nibet ground his teeth. "I have had enough of that beast! Always on our
track! Too good a chance to miss! I'm going to make a hole in his skin for him!"
In the twilight of early dawn, which penetrated the sewer near the opening,
Cranajour shuddered. With stealthy step the two men drew near the journalist.
Fandor walked on unsuspicious at a slow regular pace, his head lowered. The two
bandits came up to within a yard of him. Noiselessly, savagely determined, Nibet
lifted his arm for a murderous stroke. At this precise moment Fandor stopped at
the verge of the exit, by which the sewer discharged its burden steeply into the
Seine. Yet a moment: Nibet's knife was poised for the rapid and terrible stroke;
it was about to bury itself in the neck of the journalist up to the hilt, when
Cranajour lifted his foot, as if inspired by an idea on the spur of the moment,
gave the journalist a violent kick in the lower part of the back, and sent him
flying into space! They heard his body fall heavily into the Seine.... So
roughly sudden had been Cranajour's movement that Nibet stood dumbfounded, arm
in air, and staring at Cranajour:

Cranajour smiled his most idiotic smile, nodded, but did not utter one word!...
*       *       *       *       *

It was formidable, the rage of Nibet! Here had that crass fool, Cranajour,
kicked away the warder's chance of ridding himself of the journalist for good
and all! This hit-and-miss made Nibet foam with rage. Of all the exasperating
simpletons, this fool of a Cranajour took the cake! The two made their way back
to the store, where Mother Toulouche and big Ernestine anxiously awaited
results; and now not only had the two men returned stuttering over their
statements and with no news of the boatman, who was generally up to time, but
they had missed a fine opportunity chance had offered them! Nibet hated the
journalist like all the poisons. Taunts, jeers, abuse were heaped on the silly
head of Cranajour, who, all in vain, raised his eyes to heaven, beat his chest,
shrugged his shoulders, stammered, mumbled vague excuses:

"He didn't know exactly why he had done it! He thought he was helping Nibet!"
They disputed and contended for two hours. Suddenly Cranajour broke a long
silence and demanded, looking as stupid as a half-witted owl:

"What have I done then? What are you scolding me for?" Mother Toulouche, big
Ernestine, and the wrathful Nibet stared at one another, taken aback--then they
understood: two hours had gone by, and Cranajour no longer remembered what had
happened! Decidedly he was more innocent than a new-born babe! There was nothing
whatever to be done with such an idiot, that was certain! VI

IN THE OPPOSITE SENSE

When Jerome Fandor had been precipitated into the Seine so unexpectedly and with
such violence he kept control of his wits: he did not utter a cry as he fell
head foremost into the darkling river. He was an excellent swimmer: all aching
as he was, he let himself go with the current and presently reached the
sheltering arch of the Pont Neuf. There he took breath for a minute:

"Queer!" was all he murmured. Then with regular strokes he made for the steep
bank of the Seine opposite. Quitting the river, he secreted himself behind a
heap of stones which lay on the quay. He took off his soaked garments and wrung
the water out of them. This done, and clad in what looked like dry clothes,
Fandor walked along the quay, hailed a passing cabman half asleep on his seat,
jumped inside, and gave his address to the Jehu. *       *       *       *
*

When he arrived at _La Capitale_ on the Friday morning a boy approached him, and
whispered mysteriously:

"Monsieur Fandor, there's a very nice little woman in the sitting-room, who has
been waiting for over an hour. She wishes to see you. She will not give her
name: she declares that you know who she is." "What is she like?" Fandor asked.
His curiosity was not much aroused. "Pretty, fair, all in black," replied the
boy. "Good. I'll go in," interrupted Fandor. He entered the sitting-room and
stood face to face with Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon. She came forward, her
eyes shining, her face alight with welcome:

"Ah, monsieur," she cried, taking his hands in hers, a movement of pure
gratitude: "Ah, monsieur, I knew you would come to my help! I have read your
article of yesterday. Thank you again and again! But, I implore you, since my
brother is alive, tell me where I can see him! For mercy's sake don't keep me
waiting!" Surprise kept Fandor silent a moment. _La Capitale_ had published the
evening before a sensational article by Fandor, in which, under the guise of
suppositions and interrogations, he had narrated the various adventures as they
had happened to himself, concluding with the question--really an ironical one:
"If Jacques Dollon, who had disappeared from his cell, where he had been left
for dead, had escaped from the Depot by way of the famous chimney of Marie
Antoinette, had reached the roof of the Palais, had redescended by another
passageway to the sewer opening on to the Seine, did it not seem possible that
Dollon had escaped alive from the Depot?" Fandor had indulged in a gentle irony,
despite the gravity of the circumstances, in order to complicate the already
complicated affair, and so plunge the police into a confusion worse confounded:
this, in spite of his conviction that Dollon was dead, dead as dead could be!
Now the cruelty of this professional game was brought home to him. His article
had raised fresh hopes in Dollon's poor sister! At sight of this charming girl,
brightened with hope, Fandor felt all pity and guilt. He pressed her hands; he
hesitated; he was troubled. He did not know how to explain. At last he murmured:

"It was wrong of me, mademoiselle, very wrong to write that article in such a
way without warning you beforehand. Alas! You must not cherish illusions,
illusions which this unfortunate article has given rise to, illusions I cannot
believe in myself. I speak with all the sincerity of which I am capable, with
the keenest desire to be of service to you: I dare not let you buoy yourself up
with false hopes.... I assure you then, that from what I have been able to
learn, to see, to know, I am convinced that your unfortunate brother is no
more!... If there have been moments when I have doubted this, I am now morally
certain that he is dead. Take courage, mademoiselle! Try, try to forget--to--to
..."

Fandor was trembling with emotion: he could not continue. Elizabeth bent her
head, her eyes full of tears. She could not speak. She was overcome by this
cruel dashing to the ground of her hopes. Never, never, to see her brother
again! An agonising silence reigned. Fandor was profoundly troubled by this mute
grief. He sought in vain for some word of comfort, of encouragement. Elizabeth
rose to go. The poor girl realised that nothing could be gained by prolonging
the interview. Her one need now was to be alone, for then she could weep. Fandor
was about to accompany her to the door, when a boy entered:

"Monsieur Fandor, there's a man wishes to speak to you!" "Say I am not here,"
replied our journalist: he had no wish to see strangers just then. "But Monsieur
Fandor, he says he is the keeper of the landing stage of the passenger boat
service, and he comes with reference to the Dollon affair!" Both Elizabeth
Dollon and Jerome Fandor started. She was trembling. Our journalist said at
once:

"Bring him in then!" The boy went off, and Fandor turned to the trembling girl.
"Tell me, Mademoiselle Elizabeth, do you feel equal to hearing what this man has
to tell us? It is not improbable that he has seen something--something it would
be best you should not hear--had you not better avoid it?" Elizabeth shook her
head in the negative. She was collecting all her forces: she would not remain
ignorant of any detail of the terrible tragedy which had cost her brother so
dear:

"I shall be strong enough," she announced firmly. The boy ushered in the
visitor. He looked a good specimen of his class, a man about forty. On his cap
were the gold anchors of those in the employ of the Paris boat service.
"Monsieur!... Madame!... At your service!" The good fellow was very much
embarrassed:

"Monsieur Fandor," he went on, "you do not know me, but I know you very well,
that I do!... I read your articles every day in _La Capitale_. They're jolly
good! What I say is ..."

Fandor cut short his admirer: "Now tell me what brings you here!" "Oh, well,
here goes! I was reading your article yesterday, about how Jacques Dollon, no
more dead than you or I, had escaped over the roofs of the Palais de Justice.
That made me laugh, because I am the keeper of the landing stage at the Pont
Neuf Station. This affair is supposed to have happened in my parts, don't you
see?... Well, I had just come to the bit where you also suppose that the corpse
might easily have been devoured by rats inside the sewer.... Well, Monsieur
Fandor, I can assure you that it was nothing of the sort...."

The journalist was all eyes and ears. He signed to Elizabeth that she must keep
quiet, so as not to intimidate the good fellow. "Come now, what is it you have
seen?" "What I've seen?... Why, I saw Dollon break bounds!" At this statement
Elizabeth grew white as a sheet. She jumped up, and with clasped hands rushed
towards the keeper:

"Speak, speak quickly, I implore you!" she cried. Fandor drew Elizabeth back
gently, and whispered a few words to her. He turned to the keeper:

"Mademoiselle has also come to make a statement regarding this affair," he
explained. "That is why she is so interested in what you have just told us....
But tell us how you saw Jacques Dollon escape!" "Well, I had got up a bit
earlier than usual to see that the anchors and mooring were all right, and I
thought I saw what looked like a big bundle fall into the river from the sewer
opening--only I was half asleep and didn't take much notice; for, what with all
the rain we've been having, there's no end of filthy stuff tumbling out of the
mouth of the sewers. But, a few minutes after that, I noticed that the bundle,
instead of going with the flow of the current, was drifting across the Seine,
plainly making for the bank. There could be no mistake about that!" Elizabeth
Dollon cried:

"And then? And then?" "Then, my little lady, what if this surprise packet didn't
turn off behind an arch of the Pont-Neuf! I didn't see what became of it--but no
one will get it out of my head that it isn't some jolly dog who had no wish to
show himself--that's what I think!" The keeper paused, then went on:

"That's all I have to tell you, Monsieur Fandor ... it might serve for one of
your articles some time or other ... only you mustn't say that I told you. I
might get into trouble with my chiefs about it!" Elizabeth Dollon was no longer
listening. She had turned to Fandor, and with shining eyes murmured:

"He lives!... He lives!..." Fandor thanked the keeper, and got rid of him.
Directly the door closed on him he darted to Elizabeth:

"Poor child!" he cried, full of pity for her. "Ah! Don't pity me! I don't need
your pity now!... My brother is alive!... That man has seen him!" Fandor had to
undeceive her:

"Your brother is certainly dead," he declared. "If he were the individual in
question, it would not have been yesterday morning, but the morning before that,
when the keeper saw him; and I do assure you ..."

"But this good fellow is telling the truth then?" "I assure you that I have good
reasons, the best of reasons, for believing, for being certain, that the swimmer
who crossed the Seine was not your brother!" "Great Heaven! Who was it then?"
Fandor hesitated a moment.... Should he divulge his secret? All he said was:

"It was not your brother--I know that!" So decisive was his tone, so great the
sympathy vibrating through his words, that Elizabeth Dollon, once more convinced
that Fandor was not speaking at random, bent her head and shed tears of deepest
grief and bitter disappointment. Fandor allowed the sorrow-stricken girl to give
way to her grief for a few minutes; then he gently asked her:

"Mademoiselle Elizabeth, shall we have a little talk?... You see I simply cannot
tell you everything, yet I would gladly help you!... But first and foremost, I
beg of you to put quite out of your mind this hope that your brother is still
alive!..." Sadly Elizabeth wiped away her tears, and in a voice which she tried
to steady, said:

"Oh, what is to become of me! I thought I had found in you a support, a help,
and now you abandon me! And I had put my faith in your goodness of heart!...
There are your articles on the one hand, and your attitude on the other--what am
I to make of it? It is driving me to despair! And if you only knew how much I
need to be supported, encouraged; I feel as if I should go out of my senses--out
of my mind ... and I am alone, so terribly alone!" The poor girl's voice was
broken by sobs, her whole body was shaken by them. Fandor went up to her, and
spoke to her in a low tone affectionately: he felt great sympathy and an immense
pity for this unhappy young creature, who charmed and attracted him. He tried to
console her, and to change the current of her thoughts:

"Come now, Mademoiselle, do try to control yourself a little! I have promised to
help you, and I certainly shall--you may be sure of it. But consider now--if I
am to be of real use to you, I must know a little about you: you, yourself, your
family, your brother; who your friends are, and who are your enemies! I must
enter into your existence, not as a judge, but as a comrade who is interested in
all that concerns you. Will you not confide in me? Once I know what there is to
know we might then unite our efforts to some purpose, and find out what really
has happened, since the mystery remains inexplicable." Elizabeth Dollon felt the
young man was sincere, and that what he said in such a gentle voice was true.
This poor human waif asked no more than to be allowed to cling to whoever would
take pity on her and be kind. She now spoke to Jerome Fandor of her childhood
without suspecting in the least that the same Jerome Fandor--Charles Rambert--
used to play with her in those days. [7]

[Footnote 7: See _Fantomas_.] She mentioned the assassination of the Marquise de
Langrune--the first tragic episode of her life; then had come the horrible death
of her father, old Steward Dollon, who had passed from the service of the
Marquise to that of the Baroness de Vibray, and then perished, the victim of a
criminal. She explained how Jacques Dollon and she had come to settle in Paris,
feeling themselves rich on the savings they had inherited from their parents.
Elizabeth had become a dressmaker, and Jacques had become an artist-craftsman.
Gradually the young man's talent and industry had enabled his sister to leave
her workroom and come to live with him. His reputation was a growing one, and
the two young people looked forward to an existence of honest comfort in the
near future. They got to know some people, one or two of whom were rich, and had
shown their interest in the brother and sister. Jerome Fandor interrupted her:

"You always remained on good terms with the Baroness de Vibray?" At this
question the girl's eyes flashed:

"They have put into print shameful things about this poor dear Baroness, and
about my brother also. The papers have represented her as eccentric, as mad;
they have said worse things than that, you know that, don't you?... They have
declared that there was a very intimate relation between her and my brother--I
cannot say more--it is too hateful! It is all false--as false as false can be!
The Baroness was particularly interested in Jacques, but assuredly that was
owing to the long standing relations between her family and ours.... The suicide
of the Baroness has been a sad addition to my grief, for I was very fond of
her!..." Fandor had been listening attentively to Elizabeth's story. He now
said:

"You have used the word 'suicide,' mademoiselle: do you then really think, as
everyone seems to do, that your patroness killed herself of her own free will?"
Elizabeth reflected a minute before replying:

"That was what she wrote--and one must believe that, nevertheless ..."

"Nevertheless?" Elizabeth hesitated, passed her hand over her forehead, then
said:

"Nevertheless, Monsieur Fandor, the more I think over this death, the more
remarkable it seems. The Baroness de Vibray was not the kind of person to commit
suicide, even if she were unhappy, even if she were ruined. I have often heard
her speak of her money affairs; she even used to joke about the expostulations
of her bankers, Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil, because she was too fond of gambling.
That was our poor friend's weakness: she was a dreadful gambler: she was always
betting on horses and gambling on the Bourse. "[8]

[Footnote 8: Stock Exchange.] "Do you know the Barbey-Nanteuils at all,
mademoiselle?" "A little. I have met them once or twice at Madame de Vibray's--
when she had one of her little evenings. Once or twice my brother has asked
their advice about investments--very modest investments I can assure you--and
they got one of their friends, a Monsieur Thomery, to buy some of my brother's
art pottery." "Have you many acquaintances in Paris, mademoiselle?" "Besides the
Baroness we hardly saw anyone except Madame Bourrat, a very nice, kind woman,
widow of an inspector of the City of Paris; she keeps a boarding-house at
Auteuil, rue Raffet. In fact, I am staying with her now, for I had not the
courage to go back to my brother's place: too many dreadful memories are
connected with his studio there. I am lucky to find such a sympathetic friend in
Madame Bourrat, and such a warm welcome.... I am alone now, and life is sad."
Fandor went on with his cross-examination:

"Nevertheless, mademoiselle, I must ask you to return in thought to that tragic
home of yours. Please tell me what people you knew in your immediate
neighbourhood? Acquaintances?" Elizabeth considered:

"Acquaintances is the word, because we were not on really intimate terms with
our neighbours in the Cite; for the most part they are either art students or
work-people. However, we saw fairly often a nice man, a stranger, a Dutchman I
think he was, called Monsieur Van Hoeren; he manufactures accordions; and lives
in a little house opposite ours, with six children; he has been a widower for
years! Also there was a Monsieur Louis, an engraver, who used to take tea with
us in the evening sometimes, his wife also: he is employed in the Posts and
Telegraphs. We had practically no other acquaintances." Elizabeth stopped. There
was a silence. Fandor asked another question:

"Tell me, mademoiselle, when you entered the studio for the first time after the
tragedy, did you notice anything abnormal?" The poor girl shuddered at the
appalling picture before her mind's eye:

"Good Heavens, monsieur," she cried, "I did not examine the studio minutely! I
had only one thought--to be with my brother, who had been so unjustly accused,
so ..."

Fandor interrupted to ask:

"Do you not know that at his preliminary examination your brother declared that
he had not received a single visitor during the evening preceding the tragedy?
How then do you explain the fact that the Baroness de Vibray was found dead in
his studio, and at his side, when no one had seen her enter it? Did your brother
make a mistake? Please tell me what you think about it!" Elizabeth gazed
anxiously at the young journalist, then fixed her eyes on the floor. Her hands
twitched; she began to twist her fingers feverishly:

"Do trust me!" begged Jerome Fandor. "Please tell me what you think!" Elizabeth
rose, took several steps, and placed herself in front of the journalist:

"Ah, monsieur, there is something mysterious, which I cannot explain! As a
matter of fact, someone must have come to see my brother that evening: I cannot
assert it as a fact beyond dispute certainly: but in my own mind I feel quite
sure about it." "But you must have more proof of it than that?" cried Fandor.
"But--there is more!" cried Elizabeth, as if enlightened by a sudden discovery:
"There is a fact!..." "Tell me, do!" cried Fandor, intensely interested. "Well,
just imagine, then! Among the papers scattered over his table, and close to his
book, which was open, I noticed a sort of list of names and addresses, written
on our own note-paper, and in the kind of green ink we use--so--well ..."

"So," interrupted the journalist, "you came to the conclusion that this list had
been written at your brother's house?" "Yes, and it was not my brother's
handwriting." "Nor that of the Baroness de Vibray?" "Nor that of the Baroness de
Vibray!" "And what did this list contain?" "Names, addresses, I tell you, of
persons we knew. There were also two or three dates...."

"And is that all?" "That is all, monsieur: I saw nothing else!" "Little enough,"
murmured Fandor, disappointed. "Still no detail, however slight, must be
ignored!... What have you done with that list, mademoiselle?" "I must have taken
it with me when I collected all the papers I could find the day before
yesterday, before going to the boarding-house at Auteuil." "When you have an
opportunity, will you bring me that list?" requested Fandor. *       *       *
*       *

The conversation was interrupted. A boy came to tell Fandor that he was wanted
on the telephone by someone in the Public Prosecutor's Office. *       *       *
*       *

Later on in the day Jerome Fandor sent the following express message to
Elizabeth Dollon:

_"Do not believe a word of the Police Headquarters' version which      you will
read in this evening's 'La Capitale. '"_

This despatched, our journalist commenced his article entitled:

STILL THE AFFAIR OF THE RUE NORVINS

_Police Headquarters takes a view of this affair which is the very      reverse
of that taken by our contributor, Jerome Fandor._

_By the Seine sewer, the roofs of the Palace, and the chimney of      Marie
Antoinette, an inspector has succeeded in reaching the      Depot._

_Police Headquarters is convinced that Jacques Dollon escaped      alive!_

VII

PEARLS AND DIAMONDS

"Nadine!" "Princess!" "Nadine, what time is it?" The young Circassian, with hair
as black as ink, souple and slender, rose from her chair and was hastening from
the bedroom to ascertain the time when her mistress recalled her:

"Don't go away, Nadine! Stay with me!" The dusky Circassian obeyed: she stared
with big, astonished eyes into those of her mistress:

"But, Princess, why don't you wish me to go?" The Princess stammered in a
mysterious tone:

"Don't you know then, Nadine, that to-day is the anniversary?... and I am
frightened!" *       *       *       *       *

Princess Sonia Danidoff was in her bath robe. It must have been a quarter past
eleven, or even nearer midnight than that. Although she had lived in Paris for
years, she had never been able to make up her mind to settle in a flat of her
own. Possessing an immense fortune, she much preferred the American way of
living, and had taken a suite of rooms in one of those great palace-hotels near
the place de l'Etoile. Though a very smart staff of servants was reserved for
her exclusive use, her favourite attendant was a pretty Circassian, in whom she
had absolute confidence. This Nadine was a native of Southern Russia. The
movement of city life and civilised manners and customs had at first terrified
this little savage; but she had learned to adapt herself to her changed
surroundings, and was now high in the favour of Princess Sonia. She, and she
alone, was authorised to be present when the beautiful great lady took her daily
baths. For some years past the Princess had insisted on the presence of a maid
when she took her baths: without fail they must either be in the bathroom
itself, or in the room next to it, within reach or call. But on this particular
evening Sonia Danidoff, more nervous and restless than usual, would not allow
Nadine to leave her for a second. As to the time--well, if she did not know the
exact time it could not be helped! Really it did not matter to her whether she
were half an hour or no, for the ball given in her honour by Thomery, the
millionaire sugar refiner: in fact, it would be much better to make her
appearance after all the guests had assembled--her arrival would give the
crowning touch of brilliancy to this society function. Sonia Danidoff had
pronounced the word "anniversary" in a tone of anguish so sincere that Nadine
was genuinely alarmed. She knew, only too well, what this fatal word meant to
her mistress. She had not forgotten that five years ago to the day, just when
the Princess was enjoying her evening bath, a mysterious individual had appeared
before her, who, after frightening her, had robbed her of a large sum of money.
The adventure would have been little out of the ordinary, for hotel robberies
are frequent, had not the audacious bandit been quickly identified as the
enigmatic and elusive Fantomas, whose prodigious reputation had only increased
with the passage of the years. Sonia Danidoff, who was not ignorant of the
dramatic adventures imputed to this legendary hero, could not bear to think of
the position she had been placed in that awful night, when, threatened and
robbed by Fantomas, she had escaped death by a series of unknown and unguessable
circumstances: the tormenting mystery of it all had preyed insistently upon her
mind. Since then Sonia Danidoff had never taken a bath without thinking of
Fantomas; and every year when the anniversary of his aggression came round she
suffered cruelly: she was seized with wild, unreasoning fears at the idea that
she might see this terrifying bandit appear before her again, and that this time
he would be merciless. Nadine knew all this. She also shuddered at the vision
this horrible anniversary evoked, but controlling herself, she was anxious to
change the current of her dear mistress's thoughts:

"Forget, try to forget, Sonia Danidoff," she counselled in her melodious voice:
"You are going to a ball--at Monsieur Thomery's--at your fiance's house!" The
Princess shuddered:

"Ah, Nadine, my Nadine!" she cried, raising herself, and regarding her maid with
a strange look: "I cannot overcome my uneasiness--my alarms!... This coincidence
of date agitates me.... You know how superstitious we are at home--in our Russia
--and the life I lead in Paris has not destroyed in me the simplicity of soul of
a daughter of the Steppes!" Nadine did not know what reply to make to this
pathetic outburst. The Princess went on:

"And then, do you see, I think it wrong of Monsieur Thomery to even want to give
this ball, only a fortnight after the tragic death of that poor Baroness de
Vibray!... I tried to dissuade him from it.... I think the Baroness was his most
intimate friend once!..." "So it is said," murmured Nadine. Sonia Danidoff went
on, as if speaking to herself:

"I am not sure of it ... it is precisely to remove this suspicion from my mind
that Thomery was determined to have his ball to-night at all costs!... The
Baroness de Vibray, so he told me, was no more than a good old friend.... I
cannot make her death an excuse for putting off the announcement of our marriage
... that would be to give colour to scandal." Sonia Danidoff shrugged her
beautiful shoulders:

"Hand me a mirror!" Nadine obeyed. The Princess gazed long and complacently at
the marvellously lovely face reflected in the glass. "Princess," cried Nadine,
"you must leave the bath, you will be late otherwise!" In the adjacent dressing-
room, brilliantly illuminated by electric light, the Princess dressed with the
aid of Nadine, proud and happy to be the sole assistant of her beloved mistress.
The toilet was a triumph: silk of an exquisite blue, draped with silk muslin
incrusted with pointe de Venise and bands of ermine: a costly masterpiece of the
dressmaker's art. It enhanced the brilliant beauty of Sonia Danidoff, and threw
Nadine into raptures. The Princess opened her jewel-box:

"This evening, Nadine, I shall be pearls and diamonds!" cried the lovely
creature, as she fixed two large grey pearls in her ears. "Oh, how beautiful you
are, Princess! And what a lot they must have cost!" cried Nadine. "Ten thousand
francs, my child, on each side of my head!" Sonia slipped on her fingers three
diamond rings set in platinum:

"And here are eight or nine thousand francs more," continued she, as Nadine's
eyes grew round with wonder: her mind could hardly grasp all these thousands of
francs-worth of diamonds and pearls. There were still more to come; for,
rejecting a magnificent bracelet, on the plea that one no longer wore them at
balls, the Princess smilingly bade her Circassian fasten round her neck a superb
triple collar of pearls. To this was added a sparkling cascade of diamonds.
Never had Nadine seen her beautiful mistress so richly dressed. Thus adorned, in
Nadine's eyes, Sonia Danidoff was dazzlingly beautiful, exquisitely lovely. "You
look like the Holy Virgin on the icons!" stammered Nadine, kneeling before her
mistress, quite overcome by emotion. "Good Heavens! That is blasphemy! I am only
a humble human creature!" said the Princess smiling. Then she once more looked
at herself in the mirrors, well satisfied with her appearance, certain of the
effect she would produce on her future husband Thomery. She threw over her
shoulders a superb mantle of zibeline which was quite needed, for, though it was
the middle of April, it was quite cold. Then, ready at last, she descended to
her motor-car, and was whirled away to the ball. *       *       *       *
*

"Cranajour!... Cranajour!" Mother Toulouche shouted herself breathless: she
tried to shout louder and louder. It was in vain. She might shout herself hoarse
--there was no reply. The old termagant, who had left the front of her hovel and
had gone to call her assistant, shouting in the passage at the back of the
store, returned cursing and swearing, and seated herself near the store in the
lean-to which did duty as a kitchen:

"Where in the devil's name has that imbecile got to?" she grumbled, whilst
sipping with gusts from the bottom of a cup, into which she had poured a small
allowance of coffee and a copious ration of rum. It was about eleven in the
evening. There was not a sound to be heard. Having finished her rum and tea the
old receiver of stolen goods went to the entrance of the passage:

"Cranajour!... Cranajour!" yelled the old termagant. There was no answer. "He
can't possibly be in his canteen," said Mother Toulouche to herself. "If he was
he'd have answered, fool though he is, and would have come down!... Sure he's
gone to drag his old down-at-heels somewhere--but where?... Oh, well, we can
manage to do without him!" The old receiver went back to her store, and was
starting on a queer sort of job when the door, which led on to the quay, burst
open before a panting, breathless individual. He ran right up the store and
stopped short. Mother Toulouche had seized the first thing she could find, and
had taken up a defensive attitude. Her weapon was a great ancient cavalry sabre!
But the newcomer intended no harm--quite the contrary! After an instinctive
recoil, he leaned against a table and wiped his forehead, breathing in gasps,
incapable of pronouncing a syllable. Mother Toulouche had recognised him:

"Ah! It's you, Redhead!... And not a bit too soon either! I've been waiting for
you this last half-hour! Ernestine will be there in ten minutes' time! However
is it you are so late?" Redhead was well named! His bullet-head was covered with
russet-red hair, cut very short; his complexion was a good match; his bloated
cheeks and his potato-shaped nose were covered with red patches; his shaven chin
was a tawny red; round his little gimlet eyes was a fringe of red lashes: it was
a bestial face. He was hatless; above his waistcoat with metal buttons he wore a
black coat; his trousers had a yellow line down them: he was evidently a
servant, wearing the livery of some big house. The fellow was slowly recovering
his breath; but he continued to wipe great drops of sweat off his narrow
forehead; he was shaking all over, and his morose countenance was twitching and
contracting nervously. "Well, what's your news? Good or bad?" questioned Mother
Toulouche in a brutal tone. Redhead replied almost inaudibly:

"That depends!... It's good on the whole." A gleam of cupidity showed in the old
receiver's eyes:

"Got a bit of tin on her back, that woman--eh?" Redhead nodded a "yes."
Thereupon Mother Toulouche went into her back store and returned with a claret
glass filled to the brim with rum:

"Shoot that down your throat! That'll put you right!" When he had swallowed the
bumper he seemed to gain courage, and said:

"If I didn't get here sooner it's because I had to wait--but I saw the little
thing...."

"What's her name?" "Nadine," replied Redhead, and added: "A pretty little brat,
too!... She's got some fire in her eyes!" "What's that to do with it?"
interrupted Mother Toulouche. "You don't mean to tell me you were able to make
her gabble a bit?" she queried contemptuously. Redhead bridled: "Likely, since I
know everything now ... and I'm her sweetheart, let me tell you!" Mother
Toulouche said in a jeering tone:

"You don't tell me! You!" "Oh," replied Redhead, "it's just a way of speaking.
She's a good little thing--there's nothing to it, you know!" "So much the
worse!" declared Mother Toulouche. "Virtuous sorts aren't any use to our lot!...
Well--what did she tell you--out with it!" "Well," said Redhead, "I waited
three-quarters of an hour before Nadine joined me.... I had no bother in making
her talk, I can tell you: without the asking she told me everything ... she was
pretty well flabbergasted with all the jewels her mistress had stuck on her
clothes and her skin.... Seems there's hundreds of thousands' worth!... All
pearls and diamonds! Nothing but...."

Mother Toulouche was calculating:

"Real pearls, real diamonds--it's possible there's all that worth!" Steps could
be heard on the pavement just outside. Redhead began to shake all over:

"Who is it?" he asked. "Someone coming in?" Mother Toulouche grinned:

"Be easy, then! Haven't I told you there's nothing to fear?" Nevertheless he
asked anxiously:

"There's nothing more I'm wanted for here, is there? I've told you all I know."
"No, no, it's all right!" replied Mother Toulouche, maternal and conciliating,
"there's nothing more for you to do here.... Still, if you want to see big
Ernestine...."

Without waiting to hear the end of her sentence Redhead hurried towards the
exit. Mother Toulouche did not try to detain him:

"After all," she said in a low tone to his back as a kind of farewell, "cut your
sticks, my lad ... since you're funky!" When alone she grumbled aloud:

"What a lot they are!... I never did!... White-livered, and for nothing at all!"
Mother Toulouche was still muttering when big Ernestine marched in through the
back way. She had on a large hat and was heavily veiled. She proceeded to remove
both hat and veil:

"Well?" she queried. "They've got on to it all right! Redhead has just gone! He
knows through the little maid that the Princess went off to the ball, dressed up
to the nines--hung with jewels like a shrine!" Big Ernestine uttered a deep sigh
of satisfaction: her only reply was to hustle the old receiver:

"Look alive, Mother Toulouche!... You've got to give me a beggar's outfit: it's
up to you to see I'm disguised properly, and there's not a minute to lose
either!" Mother Toulouche was an expert at disguises and make-up of every sort:
this was not to be wondered at, considering the queer company she kept, and the
fraudulent business she carried on, and the smuggling she was mixed up in! Big
Ernestine, disguised as a poverty-stricken creature and rendered unrecognisable,
looked exactly like some unfortunate reduced to soliciting alms. She walked into
the back store, and helped Mother Toulouche to take from a cupboard some
bottles, bandages, and medicated cotton-wool. By the light of a smoky lamp the
two women scrutinised the labels, sniffing the various phials and flasks. Big
Ernestine, with the aid of Mother Toulouche, prepared compresses of pomade and
cotton-wool, on which she sprinkled a few drops of a yellow liquid, giving out a
sickening odour. Besides this big Ernestine put inside her bodice a long phial,
after making certain that the mixture, with which it was full, contained
chloroform....

Then, under Mother Toulouche's watchful eye, Ernestine prepared what was called
in that world of light-fingered gentry "the mask": a mask of cotton, which is
moulded by force on the face of the victim in order to plunge him, or her, into
a heavy sleep. Whilst making these sinister preparations the two women talked as
they went on with their evil task. Big Ernestine said, in reply to Mother
Toulouche's questionings:

"Oh, it's simple enough! It's like this:... When the motor-car stops I shall go
to the right-hand door and begin to beg ... likely enough, the Princess won't
want to hear what I have to say, but while I attract her attention, Mimile, who
will be on the other side, will open the door, and will stick the compress on
her mug.... She won't struggle--besides, Mimile will have hold of her--and then
I'll have had time to see where her jewels are, and how they are fastened, and
then I'll soon have them in my pocket--my deep 'un!" Mother Toulouche nodded:

"It's arranged all right, but how will you arrest the motor?" "Oh, that's where
the others come in; they'll do it all right.... I expect they're seeing to it
now!..." "But, look here," cried Mother Toulouche, "Mimile isn't in bits then?
They said he had fallen from his flier!" Big Ernestine gave a laugh:

"He fell right enough, poor little fellow, and from pretty high too--but he's
not broken a thing ... not this time ... a bit of luck I don't think--eh?" "He's
a mascot, I'm certain," declared Mother Toulouche. Then she said: "You spoke of
the others?... Who are they--the others?" "But didn't they tell you?" cried the
surprised Ernestine, for she thought old Mother Toulouche was in the know: "Why,
there's the Beadle--and the Beard...."

"Oh," cried Mother Toulouche, much impressed: "If the Beard's in it, then it's a
serious affair!" "Yes," replied big Ernestine, staring hard at the old receiver
of stolen goods: "It's serious all right! If the chloroform doesn't work--oh,
well ... they'll bring the knife into play...."

Big Ernestine looked at her little silver watch to mark the time:

"Past midnight!" she remarked: "I must hurry off and see what they're up to!" As
she was making off Mother Toulouche stopped her:

"Have a glass of rum to start on--it puts heart into you!" The two women were
quite ready for a drink together. When they had swallowed their dose, big
Ernestine smacked her tongue:

"Famous stuff!... It puts a heart into you and no mistake!" "Yes, it's the right
stuff--the best," agreed Mother Toulouche: "It's what Nibet prefers!" she added.
Then she cried: "But Nibet, how ... isn't he in it?" Big Ernestine put a finger
on her lips:

"Nibet's in it of course--as he always is--you know that, old Toulouche--but
he's content to show the way--you know he seldom does anything himself ...
besides, it seems he's on duty at the depot to-night!" Big Ernestine threw an
old shawl over her head and went off crying:

"I'm off, and in for it now!... Soon be back, Mother Toulouche!" *       *
*       *       *

The magnificent mansion of Thomery, the sugar refiner, overlooked the park
Monceau. It was approached by a very quiet little avenue, in which were a few
big houses: it opened on to the boulevard Malesherbes, and was known as the
avenue de Valois. All the dwellings there are sumptuous, richly inhabited, and
if the avenue is peaceful and silent by day, it is no uncommon thing to see it
of an evening crowded with carriages and luxurious motor-cars, come to fetch the
owners away to dinners and entertainments. On this particular evening the
approaches to the avenue de Valois were full of animation. Motors and broughams
succeeded one another in a long file, putting down the guests of Thomery under
an immense marquee, covering the steps leading up to the vestibule. All the
smart world had been invited to the reception: all Paris swarmed into the
brilliantly illuminated entrance-halls of the mansion. Two mounted policemen sat
as immovable as bronze caryatides on either side of the entrance, whilst a swarm
of policemen made the carriages move on, and drove away from the aristocratic
avenue de Valois the band of poverty-stricken and ragged creatures who crowded
the pavement with the hope of securing a handsome tip by opening a carriage door
or picking up some fallen object. It was no easy matter to keep order. One of
the police sergeants accustomed to ceremonial functions remarked to one of his
younger colleagues:

"I have seen balls and receptions enough! Well, my boy, this Thomery affair is
as fine a set out as if it were at the President's!" Although it was one o'clock
in the morning, both on the boulevard Malesherbes and at the entrance to the rue
de Monceau there was movement and activity. If, as seemed likely, there was a
crush in the great reception-rooms of the Thomery mansion, it was certain that
outside the crowd had to form up in line to get near the counters, where the
wine sellers were serving their customers without a moment's intermission--
serving them with drinks of every description. Thus there was a hubbub, there
was noise and roystering clamour all around. Most of the chauffeurs, coachmen,
and servants knew one another. Mingling with all this aristocracy of the servant
class were pickpockets, mendicants obsequious and wheedling, who offered
themselves as understudies to these of the upper ten of the servant world, and
these aristocrats were ready to seize this chance of a little liberty, and at
the same time play the generous patron to these poor failures in life's battle.
In fact they gave more generous tips than their masters; for did they not rub
shoulders with misery and thus realise, only too vividly, the measureless
horrors of destitution? Ernestine and Mimile lost themselves in the noisy crowd.
They were all eyes and ears for everything going on around them, whilst keeping
in view their two accomplices, the Beadle and the Beard. This was more than
usually difficult, because they were disguised almost out of recognition. The
Beard was muffled in a blue blouse and a big soft hat, which gave him the look
of a peasant, who had wandered into a crowd with which he had nothing in common.
The Beadle was capitally disguised as a coachman in good service who is out of a
situation, but who, from vanity and custom, sports the emblems of office. He was
continually chewing a quid of tobacco; for such is the habit of coachmen who
cannot smoke on their seats, and thus console themselves with two sous' worth of
roll tobacco. The Beadle stopped beside a chauffeur who had just got down from
his car, a magnificent limousine, lined with cream cloth, while its exterior was
a dark maroon in the best taste. "Why, it's Casimir!" cried the Beadle, going up
to the chauffeur with hands outstretched and smiling face. Mechanically the
chauffeur, addressed as Casimir, responded to the offered handclasp. But, after
a short silence, he said in a questioning tone, quite frankly:

"I cannot recall you." "Can't you remember me!" cried the Beadle. "Why, don't
you remember Cesar--Cesar who was with Rothschild last year?" No, Casimir could
not remember. But he was quite willing to believe that he knew Cesar, for he had
seen and known so many since he had been in the service of Princess Sonia
Danidoff, that there was nothing extraordinary about his forgetfulness. Besides,
Cesar looked quite a decent fellow, and had a taking face, and one only had to
look at that beaming countenance of his to be sure that an invitation to take a
drink together would soon be forthcoming! The Beadle, satisfied that he had so
easily made a friend of the chauffeur of Sonia Danidoff, whom he had only known
by sight for the last forty-eight hours, did in fact suggest their taking a
glass together. The Beadle had indeed come up to expectations! Drink was
Casimir's besetting sin. Excellent chauffeur, solid and serious fellow as he
was, he had two defects: he was addicted to tippling, though he never drank to
excess, and never got drunk. Also, he was fond of a gossip: he could talk for
hours without stopping. The Beadle had been posted up regarding Casimir's little
weaknesses and tastes. Thus nothing was easier than to set trap after trap, into
each of which the simple fellow fell as they were set--fell fatally. The Beadle
introduced the Beard to Casimir under the name of Father India-rubber: an old
codger, whose trade was to buy and sell tyres to chauffeurs, tyres new and also
second-hand. At this moment a young ragamuffin appeared on the scenes: he asked
if he might be left in charge of the car. It was Mimile. The young hooligan, who
had followed the conversation of the three men, and of Casimir in particular,
whilst keeping in the background, now intervened at the right moment. He made
his offer just as the chauffeur was looking about him in hopes of finding some
poverty-stricken creatures into whose charge he could give his car. Casimir gave
him twenty sous as an earnest of what was to follow in the way of coin, saying:

"Take great care of my little shanty! Don't let anyone come mouching around it,
and when I return you shall have double what you've just had!" "Thank you,
master!" cried Mimile, bowing low before the chauffeur: "You may rest assured I
shall keep a good look out!" Mimile exchanged signs of understanding with his
two accomplices, whilst they, talking as they went, drew the innocent Casimir
towards the nearest tavern, which was crowded with wine-bibbers. Mimile, as
faithful guardian of the limousine, soon got bored, although big Ernestine was
prowling around, and came to have a minute's talk with him now and again: they
dared not be seen together too much for fear of attracting attention. As time
went on, Mimile was surprised that neither the Beadle nor the Beard came to
report progress. But at long last the majestic outline of the Beard was seen at
the corner of the rue Monceau. The pretended seller of india-rubber was coming
out of the tavern. He hastened to Mimile and, in a low, distinct voice, he gave
him some hurried instructions, for now there was no time to lose:

"That idiot would never get done with his stories about motor-cars, and all that
stuff and rubbish--what's that to us? But--keep your ears open now, Mimile--it
seems there are still fifteen litres of petrol in the tank, and that would take
it a long way, for the motor consumes very little.... But this shanty has got to
stop about five hundred yards from here, at the corner of the rue de Monceau and
the rue de Teheran ... it's by this way Casimir will take his Baroness back from
the ball.... Well, what you have to do is to take fourteen litres and a half
from that tank and pitch them in the gutter!... When Casimir finds that his
petrol has given out, he will have to go in search of more ... it's during his
absence that we will work the trick on the pretty Princess--we'll perform an
operation on her, and amputate her--jewellery--the whole lot!" The Beard drew
from under his blouse an empty bottle, which he had stolen in the tavern:

"Here's your measure! Count carefully fourteen litres and a half--that done,
wait quietly till Casimir turns up: your part in the story will be forty sous,
and not to rouse his suspicions; then, while he goes up the avenue de Valois to
take up the Princess, you and Ernestine have to gallop off to the corner of the
rue de Monceau and the rue de Teheran, then ... wait!" *       *       *       *
*

Mimile, with the agility of a monkey and the ability of a first-rate chauffeur--
for there was nothing he did not know in the way of applied mechanics, as became
an aviator--executed to the letter his accomplice's orders. The Beard meanwhile
had returned to the tavern and Casimir. *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, all was activity in the world of carriages and coachmen! The great
ball was drawing to its end. Casimir was once more in possession of his motor,
and had generously tipped his understudy: thereupon the hooligan had made off as
fast as his legs could carry him. Ernestine joined him at the appointed spot:
there the two rogues waited. "Listen!" cried big Ernestine some fifteen minutes
later. She stared in the direction of the boulevard Malesherbes, with neck
outstretched and straining eyeballs. At last, after an agonising wait, she and
Mimile saw the carriages driving by. "Attention!" cried big Ernestine in a sharp
whisper ... "everybody's on the move at last!" *       *       *       *       *

The Beadle and the Beard, hidden in the crowd which thronged the approaches to
the Thomery mansion, awaited the departure of Princess Sonia Danidoff: the idea
of this rich prey excited them. Then as they stared at the first outflow of
departing guests, the two bandits could not but notice that far from looking gay
and animated as people do who have danced and supped well, these guests of
Thomery showed pale, dejected faces: in fact, they had all the appearance of
people under the influence of some tragic emotion. "They look pretty down in the
mouth, don't they?" whispered the Beard in the Beadle's ear. "That's a fact!
You'd think they were returning from a funeral!" Then a vague rumour began to
circulate; confirmation followed, spread insensibly within the Thomery mansion,
was passed on by the lackeys, spread from the pavements to the avenue. People
whispered of incomprehensible things incredible, but which little by little took
definite shape. It was said that the Thomery ball had just become the scene of
an accident, of a drama, of a robbery, of a crime!... The police, and of the
highest grade, had intervened.... The news spread like a train of ignited
gunpowder.... Nevertheless, if Thomery's guests were cognisant of the details,
they did not take the beggars and pickpockets into their confidence: among the
light-fingered gentry conjectures were rife. The Beadle and the Beard, who tried
to catch odds and ends of talk separately, joined each other again, looking
crestfallen, discomfited. The Beadle broke silence, with an oath, adding:

"I am certain we have been done ... someone has got in before us--been too smart
for us!" Beard nodded: he was of the same opinion. But who then could have had
the audacity to plan such an attempt and carry it out, too? Who could have had
the same idea as he and his comrades, and to realise it successfully? Whoever it
was had proved himself the better man. In spite of himself the bandit, in
thought, formulated one word:

Fantomas! VIII

END OF THE BALL

When Sonia Danidoff entered Thomery's ball-room she made a sensation. It was not
far off midnight when she appeared in all her brilliant beauty and dazzling
array, leaning on the arm of her host and fiance, who bore his honours proudly.
Dancers paused to admire this handsome couple; then the Hungarian band redoubled
their efforts, and the whirling, eddying waltz started afresh, more gay, more
inspiriting than before. In a corner opposite the musicians a group of persons
were in animated talk: among them Sonia Danidoff, Thomery, and Jerome Fandor.
Music was their theme, some admired Wagner and the classics, others voted for
the moderns, for the sugariest of waltzes, for the romantic, the bizarre. "For
the profane like myself," declared Thomery, laughing, "gipsy music has its
charms!" "Oh," cried Sonia Danidoff, "you are not going to tell me that such
hackneyed things as _The Smile of Spring_ and _The Blush Rose Waltz_ are to your
taste!" Her tone was reproachful, but her smile was charming. Nanteuil, the
fashionable banker, who was fluttering about the Princess, hastened to take her
side:

"Come now, Thomery, you would not put your signature to that?" Jerome Fandor,
who had just joined the group, declared:

"For my part, I thoroughly agree with you, my dear Monsieur Thomery!" Sonia
Danidoff looked her surprise. Thomery replied, with a touch of malice:

"Monsieur Fandor is like myself--the Tonkinoise is more to his taste!" "More
than Wagner's operatic big guns!" finished Fandor. Then turning to the Princess
who still wore her air of surprise:

"Yes, Princess, I confess it--my taste in music is deplorable: it comes from
absolute ignorance. I do not understand these modern symphonies--the simple
romantic suits me best!" "And that is?" ... queried Nanteuil:

"Just some music-hall air or ditty," answered Fandor with a smile as frank as
his confession. The Princess was amused at this little pseudo-artistic
discussion. She was about to speak when a couple of waltzers broke into the
group and scattered it. Jerome Fandor slipped away and wandered through the
gorgeous reception rooms. Here and there, when caught up in the throng and
forced to halt, or when pressed against the wall of the ball-room, scraps of
conversation, mingled with the strains of the Hungarian band, fell on his
retentive ears. He took refuge at last in the embrasure of a window; but his
retreat was soon invaded by two young men who, he gathered, had run across each
other in the gallery, and were continuing their talk about old times and new.
"Come, tell me, dear Charley, what has been happening to you since we left the
school?" "Bah! I go from the Madeleine to the Opera nearly every evening, and
then back again; I go to bed late and get up late; I go out a good deal, as you
see; sometimes I dance, but very rarely; I often play bridge ... and that is
about all! It's not very interesting; but you, old boy ... I heard you had got a
jolly good billet, my dear Andral!" "Oh, hardly that, dear fellow; but I am well
on the way to one, I fancy. I had the good luck to be introduced to Thomery, and
it so happened he was wanting a young engineer for one of his sugar plantations
in San Domingo." "Good Lord! At San Domingo, among the niggers?" "That's right!
Not so bad, though it and the boulevards are a few miles apart! But, on the
other hand, I am interested in my work, and I am married to a charming woman--
Spanish." "Won't you introduce me to your wife?" "When we are nearer to her, old
fellow! I came to Paris by myself to talk big business with Thomery. I am only
here for a fortnight.... Now do point out some of the celebrities--you know
everybody!" Charley adjusted his eyeglass and looked about the room:

"Ah, there's an interesting pair! That old fellow and the young one, who are so
extraordinarily alike--the Barbey-Nanteuils, bankers for generations in the
financial swim, and mixed up in all sorts of big affairs, sugar, among them....
Look here! That's the widow of an iron master, Allouat--she is passing close to
the orchestra--not bad looking in spite of her mahogany-coloured hair,
granddaughter of a famous French peer, Flavogny de Saint-Ange.... Ah, I breathe
again!... It's a detail, but I am quite delighted! General de Rini's daughters
have at last found partners: they are ugly, poor things, and they've dressed
themselves in rose-pink as though they were schoolgirls: a fine name, a
distinguished position, but no fortune, and no husband!... Ah, now there's
someone who looks as if he were in luck--and he is, too--matrimonial luck. The
affair is settled this evening, it's whispered. It will interest you
particularly, for the lucky fellow is none other than Thomery!" "What! Thomery?"
"Yes, Thomery! Although he is well over fifty, he means to commit matrimony! I
quite envy him his future wife, my Andral! There she is! That stately dame who
is going towards the last of the reception rooms all alone, rather haughty, but
a noble creature--it's Princess Sonia Danidoff, related to the Tzar in some
distant way and with an immense fortune. Just look, dear boy, at those splendid
jewels on that beautiful neck of hers! They say she's got on seven hundred
thousand francs' worth--and the rest to match--millions to swell the sugar
refiner's pouch! She is to lead the cotillion with him, so there's no doubt
about the betrothal. By the by, you are going to stay for the cotillion?" "Hum!
I..."

"But you must! You simply must! We must sit together at supper, we have still so
much to say!... Besides, if you hurry off like that, I fancy Thomery won't be
best pleased. Oh, I say, there he is, coming our way! There's no denying it, he
is a fine figure of a man, though he is in the fifties--but!... but!... but do
look! What is the matter with him? He looks as if he had seen a ghost." *
*       *       *       *

Sonia Danidoff, who had been waltzing with Thomery, was a little out of breath.
A quick glance in a mirror showed the lovely Princess that her cheeks were
rather flushed:

"I am scarlet," she thought, with that touch of feminine exaggeration
characteristic of her! She was a true daughter of Eve! At that exact moment she
felt a slight tug at the bottom of her skirt, and at the same time a black coat
was making profuse apologies: it was Monsieur Nanteuil:

"I am in despair, Princess!" cried the banker. "But no one is quite responsible
for his movements in such a crush!... I am very much afraid that I have stepped
on the muslin of your ravishing toilette and have slightly torn it!" The
Princess protested that it did not matter in the least, and the banker moved
away, bowing low and pouring out apologies and regrets. As soon as he had left
her the Princess showed her annoyance: how could she lead the cotillion with
this tear in her dress, slight though it might be--and the cotillion would begin
in less than half an hour! Then she remembered that her fiance had led her, on
her arrival, to a little drawing-room, quite away from the reception rooms at
the end of the gallery, that she might leave her cloak there, saying:

"Dear Princess, I have prepared this boudoir for you, and _you only_." Sonia
decided to retire to this boudoir at once and repair the damage to her dress. As
she passed the cloak-room on her way a maid offered her services. The Princess
refused them. If she could not have Nadine, she preferred to manage for herself,
besides, she saw that two pins, concealed in the silk muslin, would put her
dress to rights; and a touch of powder to her cheeks would bring her colour down
to a becoming tint. She was considerably amused at the veritable arsenal of
flasks and boxes of perfumes which Thomery, as became an attentive lover, had
placed there in her honour: the little boudoir had been transformed into a
comfortable ladies' dressing-room. Everything was provided, down to a glass of
sugar and water, down to a little phial of alcohol and mint! Sonia opened a
powder box; then, like all the women of her race, having a passion for perfumes,
she took up a scent sprayer and lavishly sprinkled her throat and the lower part
of her face with what was labelled, "essence of violets." The Princess may have
suffered from the intense heat of the ball-room, and required rest without
realising it, for she felt slightly faint, a little sick--almost a desire to
sleep.... She slipped down on to a low divan, which occupied a corner of the
room: she drew deep breaths, breaking in the perfume, a sweet rather strange
scent, from the sprayer. "This scent is sickly," she thought. "If only I had
some eau-de-Cologne!" Without rising, for she felt a real lassitude stealing
over her, she looked round for the eau-de-Cologne she wanted: Thomery's arsenal
did not contain any. There was only one sprayer and that Sonia Danidoff held in
her hand. She sprinkled herself a second time, hoping that the perfume would
revive her; but, on the contrary, her fatigue increased: her eyes closed for a
moment.... When she opened them again the room was in darkness. Sonia tried to
rise from the divan. An overpowering torpor, though not disagreeable, was
benumbing her whole body, and before her eyes bright lights seemed to float,
succeeded by thick darkness. Her head turned round and round ... she strove to
cry out, but her voice stuck in her throat: her body jerked with a feeble
convulsive movement. She heard indistinctly an unknown voice murmuring:

"Let yourself go!... Sleep!... Have no fear!" Sonia Danidoff essayed a momentary
resistance, then she succumbed and lost all consciousness of her
surroundings....

Absolute silence reigned in the boudoir Thomery had reserved for the sole use of
his beautiful betrothed, when he arrived to lead her to the cotillion. He found
the door shut. He knocked discreetly. There was no reply. Repeated knocking
evoked no audible answer. Thomery opened the door. The room was in total
darkness. He switched on the electric light: the boudoir was brilliantly
illuminated.... The sight that met his startled eyes was so moving that he grew
livid with horror and rushed to the side of his betrothed. Sonia Danidoff was
extended on the divan motionless and pale as death. A hoarse and laboured breath
came from her heaving bosom at irregular intervals: on the exquisite skin of
neck and breast were spattered streaks of blood! Beside himself, Thomery rushed
away in search of help. It was at this terrible crisis that the fiance of Sonia
Danidoff had attracted the attention of Charley, whose friend, the young
engineer Andral, was the protege of the man whose awful pallor and distracted
air spelt tragedy. Thomery, his countenance ravaged by intense emotion, his
hands clenched, shaken by nervous tremors, hastened, with unsteady steps, in the
direction of the gallery leading to the anteroom. Suddenly a woman's shrieks
broke in on the charming harmonies of a slow waltz, which the orchestra was
rendering at the moment.... There was an irresistible rush towards the boudoir,
where two half-fainting women had collapsed on chairs, and the famous surgeon,
Dr. Marvier, was doing his utmost to prevent the crowd from entering the room.
The word went round that a tragedy had taken place--a death! Princess Sonia
Danidoff was in the room lying dead! The words "crime" and "murder" were freely
bandied about: murmurs of "assassin," "robber," "assassination" could be heard.
Some twenty of the guests who had entered the boudoir could give details. The
dreadful rumours were true. Sonia Danidoff, they declared, was stretched out on
the floor covered with blood, her breast bare, her pearls had vanished--a
horrible sight! The uproar died down; an icy silence reigned. The dancers drew
together in groups discussing the terrifying tragedy.... Several women were
still in a fainting condition; pallid men were opening windows that fresh air
might circulate in the overheated rooms; on all sides they were watching for the
return of their host. Thomery remained invisible. General de Rini called his two
daughters to his side and spoke words of affectionate encouragement, for they
were much upset. The old soldier marched off with them in the direction of the
grand staircase and towards the cloak-room on the landing. As he was preparing
to take over his coat and hat, one of the footmen went up to him and said a few
words in a low voice:

"What!... What!" cried the General. "What's the meaning of this?... Not to leave
the house!... But, am I under suspicion then?... It is shameful!... I never
heard of such a thing!" A butler approached the irate General and said, very
respectfully:

"I beg of you, General, to speak lower! A definite order to that effect was
given us ten minutes ago. Directly Monsieur Thomery was aware of the ...
accident he had the entrance doors closed and had the house surrounded by the
detectives who were downstairs on duty. The sergeant is there to see this order
carried out: you cannot leave the premises!... It is not that you are under
suspicion, General--of course not--but perhaps in this way they may succeed in
finding the guilty person who has certainly not left the house, for no one has
gone from the house for at least an hour...."

General Rini had calmed down. He understood why his host had issued the order.
He retired to a corner of the gallery with his daughters, Yvonne and Marthe: the
poor things seemed stunned. The reception rooms slowly emptied: the guests
crowded on to the verandah and into the smoking-room. There was a buzz of talk--
queries, comments, conjectures: it ceased abruptly. Monsieur Thomery had just
appeared at the top of the grand staircase, accompanied by a gentleman, whose
simple black coat was in striking contrast to the light dresses and brilliant
uniforms of the guests. Someone whispered:

"Monsieur Havard!" It was, in fact, the chief of the detective police force.
Within a couple of minutes of his frightful discovery, Thomery had rushed to the
telephone and had called up Police Headquarters. It was a piece of unexpected
good fortune to find Monsieur Havard there at so advanced an hour. He had
immediately responded to the call in person. Whilst crossing the reception rooms
Thomery talked to him in a low voice:

"Accept my grateful thanks, Monsieur, for having answered my appeal for help so
quickly. No sooner did I discover the body of my Princess than I lost no time in
having all the exits from the premises watched. Unfortunately I was obliged to
leave my reception rooms for quite a quarter of an hour, so that I cannot tell
you what happened there. If only I had been able to remain with my guests, I
might possibly have surprised some movement, some gesture, some look, which
would have put me on the track of this murderous thief ... unfortunately ..."

Monsieur Havard interrupted, smiling:

"That does not matter, Monsieur: if the guilty person is among your guests and
has in some way betrayed himself, I shall hear of it. There are, at least, four
or five plain clothes men among the dancers, I can assure you of that." "I can
assure you to the contrary!" replied Thomery--"I know my guests--know who have
been admitted here!" "I also am sure of what I say," insisted Monsieur Havard.
"There is scarcely a ball, a reception, however select it may be, where you will
not find a certain number of our men." Thomery made no reply to this: they had
arrived at the door of the fatal room. The doctor was standing beside the
victim. Dr. Marvier reassured Monsieur Havard. He announced that the Princess
had been almost literally felled to the ground by a most powerful soporific and
was in no real danger: she would certainly regain consciousness in the course of
an hour or two.... But she must be kept perfectly quiet: that was absolutely
necessary. Monsieur Havard did not question the doctor's statement. After a
rapid glance he was able to form his own opinion. There had been no struggle:
the victim's wounds were due to the haste with which the thief had torn the
jewels from Sonia Danidoff's neck. He next considered the two windows which,
with the door opening on to the gallery, were the only means of entrance and
exit the room had. There were strong iron shutters behind the windows: these
could not be very easily opened: in any case, it was impossible to close them
again from the outside. The thief must have been in the house, probably in the
ball-room, and had followed the Princess into this little retiring-room.... But
what had been the Princess's motive for coming here alone? Monsieur Havard had
learned that the room had not been thrown open to the other guests. Then he
perceived that the lace at the bottom of her dress was undone. He bent down and
examined it carefully: two pins, hastily stuck in, kept together a piece of this
lace.... The conclusion Monsieur Havard came to was, that the Princess having a
rent in her dress had wished to be alone for a minute or two in order to repair
the damage, and that while she was stooping towards the bottom of her skirt the
assassin had thrown her to the ground and despoiled her of her jewels. The chief
of the detective force turned to Thomery abruptly:

"I shall be obliged to follow a course of action which may rather annoy your
guests; but they must excuse me. Everything leads me to think that the guilty
person is on the premises, since no one has gone away.... I must hold an
investigation at once. I am going to cross-examine your guests--probe them
thoroughly--and I wish to put them through their paces in your office, Monsieur
Thomery, one by one.... I will begin ... with you ... so that your guests take
my questioning with a good grace ... it is only a mere matter of form--a pure
formality!..." *       *       *       *       *

The investigations were lengthy and trying and led to no result whatever. *
*       *       *       *

Fandor, who was preoccupied by this fresh drama in which he had taken some part
--far too slight to please him--was putting on his overcoat when he stopped
dead. A voice--an unrecognisable voice--had murmured in his ear:

"Attention! Fandor!... It is serious!..." Our journalist turned round in a
flash. Ah, this time he would find out who the mysterious unknown was--the
unknown, who wished to influence by word written and word spoken, the course of
these investigations he had taken in hand:

Anonymous friend? Concealed adversary? He must, at all costs, clear up the
mystery. A dozen people were crowding round Fandor, insisting on being attended
to in the cloak-room. No one noticed the journalist....

No one seemed interested in what he was doing....

Fandor examined every one of Thomery's guests who were standing about him. He
knew some of them by name, some he knew by sight. He searched their faces with
penetrating eyes; but, in vain.... Some were common-place looking, others calm,
others impenetrable:

"Hang it all," he grumbled. He went off furious and upset. IX

FINGER PRINTS

After having interrogated all the witnesses of last night's tragedy he could get
into touch with, Jerome Fandor returned to the Palais de Justice. "All the
same," he confessed to himself, "I must admit that, up to the present, I do not
know anything very definite about it. This Princess Sonia Danidoff has managed
to get robbed in a most extraordinary way. At one o'clock in the morning, Havard
declares that the thief can be none other than one of the guests, and thereupon
every person present has to submit to being searched--an exhaustive search!
Nothing comes of it. Then Bertillon arrives on the scene, and it seems he has
obtained very distinct imprints of finger marks. If they are as distinct as all
that, the task of the police will be simplified; but, on the other hand, is it
likely the guilty person will be so simple as to respond to the summons issued
by the Public Prosecutor, a general summons issued to all Thomery's guests to
parade in Bertillon's office for the finger-mark test?... Not he! Why the moment
he heard of it he would make for the train and pass the frontier!" When his cab
arrived at the Palais, Fandor uttered a big sigh of satisfaction:

"There are a good many things I am not clear about: let us hope Bertillon will
give me some information." The entrance to the anthropometric department was
under the discreet observation of two detectives:

"Oh," thought Fandor. "They think it probable there will be an immediate arrest,
do they? We are going to have some complications, I foresee, in connection with
the finger-mark ceremony!" He sent in his card and a few minutes after he found
himself in the presence of Monsieur Bertillon. "Well, what is it you want me to
tell you?" asked this famous man of science. "Why, dear master, everything that
took place last night! Is it true that you have summoned here all Thomery's
guests?... Have you obtained such perfect reprints that, in your hasty
examination, you can be certain of identifying them with those of the persons
who will pass through your office to undergo the test?" Bertillon smiled:

"Oh, my dear fellow, you are of those who do not put much faith in the results
of my tests for police purposes! That, let me tell you, is because you are not
acquainted with our procedure. The impressions I obtained are distinct--precise
as can be; if an arrest is made before long it will be made on sure grounds."
Fandor bowed:

"I accept your statement, dear master!... But, do be kind enough to tell me what
happened after my departure?" "Oh, nothing very extraordinary.... Of course you
know about the affair--how the Princess Sonia Danidoff was discovered?..." "What
I know is that Thomery found one of his guests, Princess Sonia Danidoff, in a
dead faint in a small drawing-room; that Dr. Du Marvier declared she had been
rendered unconscious; that the theft of a pearl necklace worn by the victim had
been the motive of this criminal attempt; that Monsieur Havard, called in at
once, first made sure that no one had left the house, and then had everyone on
the premises searched ... and that is really all I know about it!" "Well, Havard
did not find anything!" "No one was caught with compromising jewels in their
possession. The last guest gone, the house searched from top to bottom, not a
single pearl had been found.... I arrived just when the investigations had
terminated: at the moment when they were about to take the Princess home. She
had regained consciousness by this time and declared she knew nothing except
that she had fallen asleep after using a perfume sprayer. This has been seized
and chloroform has been found in it; but no one seems to know who filled the
sprayer with this stupefying perfume." "Did Monsieur Havard send for you?" "Yes,
he telephoned. You know, of course, that I am always asked to intervene now in
any ticklish affair!... Well Dr. Du Marvier, an expert in his way, noticed that
the Princess had been half strangled by the thief in his haste to secure the
pearl collar, and he wished me to search for finger prints on the nape of the
victim's neck--to discover the assassin's signature in fact." "And there were
some?" "A quantity. The Princess had been slightly wounded in the nape of the
neck ... blood had been pressed on to the skin of her neck, and it was easy to
take a cast of one of the fingers." "Was that sufficient?" "Yes, and no; such an
impression is something; but there is better than that! The thief must have
given the neck a violent squeeze with his hands, consequently there is a
complete impression of the hand ... that I had to get...."

Fandor instinctively put his hand to his neck as if he were squeezing it. He
said:

"Are such impressions imperceptible?" "Yes; to the eye, but not to the
photographing apparatus. It is thoroughly established that the pattern formed by
the innumerable lines which furrow the fleshy part of our fingers is as
peculiarly characteristic of each individual as the form of his nose, of his
ears, or the colour of his eyes. The curves or rings, the various forms taken by
these lines already exist in the newly born and never change to the day of his
death. Even in case of a burn, if the skin grows again, the ridges reappear
exactly as they were before the accident. Look you, one can obtain by this
method--this test--such results as you would never dream of. For example, by
taking these imprints I obtained in the early hours of to-day, as a basis, I can
tell you, with almost absolute accuracy, the height of the individual...."

"This is marvellous!" cried Fandor. "The service your department renders then is
to abolish legal blunders?" "That is so. Every individual identified, is
identified plainly, irrefutably. Unfortunately, we cannot always obtain perfect
imprints on the spot where the crime is committed." "But this night?" "Ah, as I
told you, the impressions were most satisfactory. I have the thief's hand--the
whole of it! I will even go so far as to declare that the fellow who committed
the crime has already been through my hands. I recognise that hand! You shall
see, whether or no I have made a mistake!"... Bertillon pressed a bell, and
asked the official who answered it:

"Have you identified the imprints I sent you just now?" "Yes, sir. This man has
already been measured here. It is register 9200." Bertillon turned to Fandor:

"You see, I was not mistaken! All I have to do is to turn up my alphabetical
index, and for this very month, for the number is a recent one, and I shall know
the name of the old offender--he must be one, as he is catalogued here--who has
committed this assault." Whilst speaking, Monsieur Bertillon was turning over
the leaves of an enormous register:

"Ah! Here is the 9200 series!..." Suddenly the book slipped from his hands, and
he exclaimed: "The guilty man is ..."

"Is who?" questioned Fandor. "Is Jacques Dollon!... The hand that has robbed
Princess Sonia Danidoff is the hand of Jacques Dollon!" "But it is impossible!"
Bertillon shrugged his shoulders. "Impossible?... Why, since the proof of it is
there?" "But Jacques Dollon is dead!" "He was the thief of yesterday's crime."
"You are making a mistake!..." "I am not making a mistake!... Jacques Dollon is
the thief I tell you!" This was too much for Jerome Fandor: he could not contain
himself. "And I tell you, Monsieur Bertillon, that I know that I am certain--
positively certain, that Jacques Dollon is dead!... Now, then!..." The man of
science shook his head. "I, in my turn, say, you are making a mistake! Look at
the two imprints I have here! That of Jacques Dollon taken a few days ago, and
this made from the impressions obtained this very night, or, to be exact, in the
early morning hours of to-day! They are identical--one can be exactly superposed
on the other!..." "Coincidence!" "There is no such coincidence possible--
besides"--Monsieur Bertillon took up a powerful magnifying glass--"look at these
characteristic details!... Just look at the lines of the thumb, all out of
shape!... The presentment of the thumb itself is not normal either; it denotes
habitual movement in a certain direction: it is the thumb of a painter, of a
potter!... Oh, it is all as clear as daylight--believe me--there is no doubt
about it! Jacques Dollon is the guilty person!" "But," repeated Fandor
obstinately: "Jacques Dollon is dead! I swear to you he is dead!..." This
assertion made no impression on the man of science. "As to whether Jacques
Dollon is alive or dead--that is for the police to decide!... For my part, I can
declare that the man who committed the theft yesterday evening is the identical
man who passed through my hands some days ago--and that man is certainly Jacques
Dollon!" *       *       *       *       *

Jerome Fandor left Monsieur Bertillon. The young journalist was perplexed.... If
the finger-prints on the neck of Princess Sonia Danidoff were, beyond dispute,
those of Jacques Dollon--then the mystery surrounding this affair, and not this
affair only, but a series of incidents, so far from being cleared up, was more
impenetrable than ever! But Fandor was obsessed by the idea of Fantomas, of
Fantomas in the depths of mystery, presiding over this series of dramatic
occurrences. "Yes, Fantomas is certainly in this!" he cried.... But Dollon has
left traces of himself here--has, as it were, put his signature, his
identification mark to this crime!... But Dollon is not Fantomas ... besides
Dollon is dead!... I have proofs of it--yes, he is dead!... Well then?... What
to make of it? Fandor could not make anything of it! X

IDENTITY OF A NAVVY

"The Barbey-Nanteuil bank is certainly gorgeous!" thought Jerome Fandor as he
traversed the hall on the ground floor, where the massive mahogany furniture,
the thick carpets, the deep, comfortable chairs, the sober elegance of the
window curtains breathed an atmosphere of luxury and good taste. "And decidedly
banking is the best of businesses!" added our young journalist. An attendant
advanced to meet him. "What do you want, monsieur?" "Will you take in my card to
Monsieur Nanteuil? I should be glad to have a few minutes' talk with him." The
attendant bowed. "On a personal matter, monsieur?" "A personal matter?... Yes."
Jerome Fandor wanted to interview the Barbey-Nanteuils on the subject of the
recent occurrences, which had roused Paris opinion to the highest degree--
mysterious occurrences on which no light seemed to have been thrown so far....
Not only were the Barbey-Nanteuils the bankers of the Baroness de Vibray, but
they had been present at Thomery's ball, when the attack on Princess Sonia
Danidoff had taken place.... Would they allow themselves to be interviewed?
Fandor decided that they certainly would, for they were business men, and was he
not going to give them a free advertisement? The attendant--a stately individual
--returned. "Monsieur Nanteuil is sorry he cannot see you, he is taking the
chair at an important committee meeting; but Monsieur Barbey will see you for a
few minutes, that is to say, if he will do instead of Monsieur Nanteuil." "In
that case, I will see Monsieur Barbey," said Fandor, rising. Following the
attendant, Fandor traversed the whole length of the bank, and passing the half-
open door of Monsieur Nanteuil's office--the name on the door told him this--he
noticed that it was empty. Monsieur Barbey received him coldly and with a solemn
bow. Fandor's reply was a pleasant smile. "I know," said he, "that your time is
precious, Monsieur Barbey, so I will come straight to the object of my call....
You must be aware of the profound impression caused by the double crimes
recently committed on the persons of Madame de Vibray and the Princess Sonia
Danidoff?" "It is true, monsieur, that I have followed, in the papers, the
account of the investigations regarding them: but, in what way?..." "Does it
concern you?" finished Fandor. "Good heavens, monsieur, is it not a fact that
the Baroness de Vibray was your client? And were you not present at Monsieur
Thomery's ball?" "That is so, monsieur; but if you are hoping that I can supply
you with further details than those already published, you will be disappointed.
I myself have learned a good deal about these crimes only from reading your
articles, monsieur." "Can you confirm the statement that Madame de Vibray was
ruined?" "I do not think I am betraying a professional secret if I say that
Madame de Vibray had had very heavy losses quite recently." "And Princess Sonia
Danidoff?" "I do not think she is one of our clients." "You do not think so?"
"But, monsieur, you cannot suppose that we know all our clients? Our business is
a very extensive one, and neither Nanteuil, nor I, could possibly know the names
of all those who do business with us." "You know the name of Jacques Dollon?"
"Yes. I knew young Dollon. He was introduced to me by Madame de Vibray, who
asked me to give him a helping hand, and I willingly did so. I can only regret
now that my confidence was so ill placed." "Do you believe him guilty then?...
Not really?" "I certainly do!... So do all your readers, monsieur. Is that not
so?" But, whilst Monsieur Barbey was regarding Fandor with some astonishment
because of his half-avowal, that he himself was not sure of Dollon's guilt, the
door was flung open with violence, and Monsieur Nanteuil, out of breath, looking
thoroughly upset, rushed into the room, followed by five or six men unknown to
Jerome Fandor, and showing traces of fatigue and emotion also. "Good Heavens!
What is it?" cried Monsieur Barbey, rising to meet his partner....

"The matter is," cried Monsieur Nanteuil, "that an abominable robbery has just
been committed...."

"Where?" "Rue du Quatre Septembre!..." Still panting, he began to give
details....

Fandor did not wait to hear more. He rushed from the Barbey-Nanteuil bank and
made for the place de l'Opera at top speed. In consequence of the extraordinary
occurrence which Monsieur Nanteuil had hastened to report to his partner, a
considerable crowd had flocked to the scene of the accident; but barriers had
been quickly erected, and the crowd, directed by the police, were able to
circulate in orderly fashion when Fandor arrived on the scene. The agile young
journalist had made his way to the front row of the curious, and was bent on
entering the stone and wood yards of the works forbidden to the public; the
usual palisade no longer existed owing to the landslip. Just as he was searching
in his pocket for the precious identification card, which the police grant to
the reporters connected with the big newspapers, Fandor was jostled by an
individual coming out of the yards. It was a navvy all covered with mortar,
white dust, and mud; he was without a hat and held his right hand pressed
against his cheek; between his fingers there filtered a few drops of blood. The
glances of the man and the journalist met, and Fandor felt as though someone had
struck him a blow on the heart! The navvy had given him so strange a look.
Fandor thought he had read in his eyes a threat and an invitation. Whilst our
journalist hesitated, troubled by this sudden encounter, the man moved off,
forcing his way through the crowd. Then Fandor caught sight of some of his
colleagues, stumbling about amidst the ruins and rubble in the stone-yard. This
reassured him; if he followed the navvy, and he had the strongest inclination to
do so, he could telephone to some reporter friend who would supply him with the
necessary details for his article on the accident. He had got some facts
already: a sudden collapse of stones and mortar had buried a hand-cart, in which
were large bars of gold belonging to the Barbey-Nanteuil bank. But the precious
vehicle had soon been rescued, and they were taking it to the bank under escort.
Satisfied as to this, Fandor followed with his eyes this strange navvy who was
going further and further away. Fandor had an intuition--a very strong feeling--
that he must follow the trail of this man and make him talk. It was of the
utmost importance--something told him this was so. The navvy was not simply
going away, he had the air of a man in flight. Fandor, who was following now and
keenly observant, noticed the hesitating movements of the man--then there was an
astonishing move on the navvy's part: he hailed a taxi and got in. Fandor had
the good luck to find another taxi at once; jumping in, he said to the driver:

"Follow the 4227 G.H. which is in front of you: don't let it outdistance you ...
you shall have a good tip!" The chauffeur, a young alert fellow, understood
there was a chase in question, and amused at the idea of pursuing a comrade
through the crowded streets of Paris, he set off. He adroitly cut through a file
of carriages and caught up taxi 4227 G.H. He then proceeded to follow closely in
its track. Fandor, keen as a bloodhound on the scent, kept watch over their
progress to an unknown destination. They rolled along the avenue de l'Opera:
they cut across the rue de Rivoli. Then, when they were going at a good pace
through the place du Carrousel, Fandor felt much moved by memories of past
times, those days of great and wonderful adventures, when he would follow this
very route to keep some exciting appointment with his good friend, Juve. How
frequent those appointments used to be, when the famous detective was alive and
so actively at work--the work of unearthing criminals--those pests of society!
Off Fandor used to set when the longed for summons came, and would meet Juve in
his little flat on the left side of the Seine. Ah, those were times, indeed!
When a lad, Fandor had been practically adopted by the famous detective. Young
Jerome Fandor had served a kind of apprenticeship with Juve, and this had
brought him into close touch with the ups and downs of a number of crime dramas:
he and Juve together had even been the voluntary, or involuntary, heroes of some
of them! Then the tragic disappearance of Juve had occurred, when Fandor had
escaped death by a kind of miracle! After that dreadful date, our journalist had
found himself alone, isolated, with not a soul to whom he cared to confide his
perplexities, his anxieties, his hopes! Fandor shuddered at the thought of this.
The taxi had just crossed the bridge des Sainte Peres, had followed the quay for
a few minutes, then rounding the Fine Arts School they entered the old and
narrow rue Bonaparte....

What was this? Of course, it could only be a coincidence ... but still ... rue
Bonaparte--why that only brought the memory of Juve more vividly to mind! For
Juve had lived in this street; and now, a few yards further on, they would pass
before the modest dwelling where, for years, the detective had made his home,
keeping jealously hidden, from all and sundry, this asylum, this secret retreat.
Ah, what happy hours, what jolly times, what tragic moments, too, had Fandor not
passed in that little flat on the fourth floor! How they had chatted away in the
detective's comfortable study! Then Fandor, full of spirit, would come and go
from room to room, unable to sit still, all fire and activity; and Juve would
remain in one place, calm, full of thought, sometimes sunk in a reverie, often
silent for hours at a time, his eyes obstinately fixed on the ceiling, smoking
methodically, mechanically even, his eternal cigarette. Oh, those good, good
days gone for ever! After the disastrous disappearance of Juve, Fandor had not
gone near the rue Bonaparte for six months. It was all too painful, to find
again the familiar rooms and no Juve! It was too painful. However, one fine day,
he determined to go and see what had happened to his friend's old home.... Alas,
in Paris, the lapse of half a year suffices to alter the most familiar scene! In
rue Bonaparte, the former house porters had left; their place had been taken by
a stout, sulky woman who gave evasive replies to Fandor's questions. He
extracted from her the information that the tenant of the fourth floor flat had
died, that his furniture had been cleared out very soon after his death, and the
flat had been let to an insurance inspector....

*       *       *       *       *

Fandor was roused from this retrospect: he grew pale, his heart seemed to stop
its beating: the taxi he was pursuing had slowed down--had drawn up beside the
pavement--had stopped in front of Juve's old home! Fandor saw the navvy descend
from the taxi, pay his fare, and enter the house, still keeping his right hand
pressed to his cheek. Without a moment's reflection, Fandor leapt from his taxi,
flung a five-franc piece to his driver, and without waiting for the change he
rushed into the house, whose passages and stairs were so familiar. The navvy was
swiftly mounting the stairs in front of our excited young journalist, who was
close on his quarry's heels: the two men were panting as they went up that dark
staircase. At the fourth floor, Fandor was nearly overcome by emotion, for the
man entered Juve's old flat as if he had a right to do so. He was on the point
of shutting the door in the face of his pursuer, but Fandor had foreseen this.
He slipped through with a forceful push and caught the navvy by his jacket.
Quick as lightning the navvy turned, and the two men stood face to face.... The
result was startling! Speechless they stared at each other for what seemed an
interminable moment; then, with a strangled cry, Fandor fell into the man's
arms, and was crushed in a strong embrace. Two cries escaped from their lips at
the same moment:

"Juve!" "Fandor!" *       *       *       *       *

When he came to himself again, Fandor found he was lying in one of the
comfortable leather arm-chairs in Juve's study. His temples and the lobes of his
ears were being bathed with some refreshing liquid: the commingled scent of
ether and eau-de-Cologne was in the air. When he opened his eyes, it was with
difficulty that he could credit the sight that met them! Juve, his dear Juve,
was bending over him, gazing at him tenderly, watching his return to
consciousness with some anxiety. Fandor vainly strove to rise: he felt dazed.
"Fandor!" murmured Juve, in a voice trembling with emotion. "Fandor, my little
Fandor. My lad, my own dear lad!" Oh, yes, this was Juve, his own Juve, whom
Fandor saw before him!... He had aged a little, this dear Juve of his--had gone
slightly grey at the temples: there were some fresh lines on his forehead, at
the corners of his mouth, too; but it was the Juve of old times, for all
that!... Juve, alert, souple, robust, Juve in his full vigour, in the prime of
life! Oh, a living, breathing, fatherly Juve: his respected master and most
intimate friend--restored to him, after mourning the irreparable loss of him and
his incomprehensible disappearance! While Fandor slowly came to himself, Juve
had lessened the disordered state of his appearance; he had taken off his
workman's clothes, and also the red beard which he had worn, when he ran up
against the journalist in the place de l'Opera. As soon as Fandor was himself
again, not only did he feel intense joy, a quite wild joy, but he also knew the
good of a keen curiosity. Now he would know why the detective had felt obliged
to disappear, officially at any rate, from Paris life for so long a period.
Protestations of faithful attachment, or unalterable affection poured from
Fandor's excited lips, intermingled with questions: he wanted to know everything
at once. Juve smiled in silence, and gazed most affectionately at his dear lad.
At last he said:

"I am not going to ask you for your news, Fandor, for I have seen you
repeatedly, and I know you are quite all right.... Why, I do believe you have
put on flesh a little!" Juve was smiling that enigmatic smile of his. Fandor
grew impatient, on fire with curiosity. Ah, this was indeed the Juve of bygone
days, imperturbable, ironical, rather exasperating also! However, Juve took pity
on Fandor, who was still under the influence of the shock he had received.
"Well, now, dear lad, did you recognise me, a while ago?" Fandor pulled himself
together. "To tell you the truth, Juve, I did not ... but, when our glances met,
I had an intuition, a kind of interior revelation of what I had to do, and
without any beating about the bush--I knew I had to follow you, follow you
wherever you went." Juve nodded his approval. "Very good, dear fellow; your
reply gives me infinite pleasure, and on two counts: in the first place, I
perceive that your remarkable instinct for getting on to the right scent,
strengthened by my teaching, has improved immensely since we parted; and, in the
second place, I am delighted to know that I made my head and face so
unrecognisable that even my old familiar friend, Fandor, did not know me when we
were brought face to face!" "Why this disguise, Juve?" demanded Fandor, his
countenance alight with curiosity. "How was it I came across you at the very
spot where the Barbey-Nanteuil load of gold had been submerged, for the moment,
under bricks and mortar? And, with regard to that, Juve, how comes it ..."

Juve cut Fandor short. "Gently! Fandor! Gently! You are putting the cart before
the horse, old fellow; and if we continue to talk by fits and starts, never
shall we come to the end of all we have to say to each other, and must say. Are
you aware, Fandor, that we have been drawn into a succession of incomprehensible
occurrences--a mysterious network of them?... But I have good hopes that now we
shall be able to work together again; and I like to think that if we follow the
different trails we have each started on, we shall end up by..."

It was Fandor's turn to interrupt:

"Hang it all, Juve! I partly understand you, of course; but there's a lot I
don't know yet.... What are you after, dear Juve? Are you, as I am, on the track
of Jacques Dollon?" There was a pause, then Juve said:

"I shall reserve the details for our leisure. What matters now is, that I should
make clear to you the principal lines my existence has followed during the past
three years or so. A few minutes will suffice to put you in possession of the
main facts. Now, listen." The narrative went back to the time when Juve, aided
by Fandor, was close on the heels of their mortal enemy, the mysterious and
elusive Fantomas. The detective and the journalist had succeeded in cooping up
the formidable bandit in a house at Neuilly, belonging to a great English lady,
known under the name of Lady Beltham. This Englishwoman was the mistress and
accomplice of the notorious Fantomas. [9] But at the precise moment when Juve
was about to arrest him, a frightful explosion occurred, and the building, blown
up by dynamite, collapsed in ruins, burying the two friends and some fifteen
policemen and detectives. [Footnote 9: See _The Exploits of Juve_.] Rescuers
were on the spot in a very short time, and uninterruptedly, for forty-eight
hours, they searched among the ruins for the victims of the disaster, dead or
alive. By a miraculous piece of good fortune, Fandor had been but slightly hurt,
and at the end of a few days he was as well as ever. But the poor fellow had
lost his best friend--Juve! The search for Juve had been a useless one. Several
corpses could not be identified owing to the injuries they had sustained; and,
as it seemed incredible that the detective could have escaped, they had
concluded that one of the unrecognisable bodies must be his. Juve, however, was
not one of the dead! Saved in as miraculous a fashion as Fandor had been, less
injured even, a few seconds after the frightful crash, he had been able to rise
and make his escape. The distracted detective had raced away from the scene of
disaster in search of Fandor, and also in pursuit of Fantomas, for he believed
that both had made their escape. After wandering about for some hours, he had
returned to mingle with the crowd of rescuers, and had learned that Fandor had
been found, and was not dangerously hurt: on the other hand, there were those
present who declared that he, Juve, was killed! This unexpected announcement
gave him an idea: for an indefinite period he would accept this version! For,
more than ever set upon catching his enemy, the detective said to himself, that
if Fantomas could feel certain that Juve no longer existed, the pretended dead
would have a far better chance of catching the living bandit! Thereupon, Juve
had submitted his project to his chief, Monsieur Havard; and the head of the
police secret service had consented to ignore Juve's presence among the living.
Juve knew that Lady Beltham had escaped to England. Supposing that Fantomas
would rejoin her without delay, the detective left Paris, crossed the Channel.
He then went to America. For scarcely had he arrived in London when he learned
that the bandits had gone off to the United States. Juve travelled from place to
place for some months. It was a vain quest: Fantomas had vanished, leaving not a
trace behind, and the disgusted detective, now convinced that he had followed a
false trail, returned to France. He determined to set himself to study anew the
prison world; he was all the more interested in it because, before his supposed
death, Juve had effected the arrest of several members of a band of which
Fantomas was the leader. Among these were the Cooper, the Beard, and old Mother
Toulouche. Then, at the prison connected with the asylum, Juve had come across a
warder, who, some years previous to this, had been the warder in charge of a man
condemned to death, one Gurn, who had not been guillotined because a substituted
person had been executed in his stead. Juve was convinced that the condemned
criminal was none other than Fantomas. Juve strongly suspected that this warder,
Nibet by name, knew a great deal about this old affair. But soon Nibet passed to
the Depot. The accomplices of Fantomas, having served the time of their
respective sentences, some at Melun, others at Clermont, all this nice
collection of criminals would meet once more on the pavements of Paris. Juve,
therefore, had imperious reasons for mingling with this charming crowd!...
Fandor had followed Juve's rapid narrative with the most intense interest. "And
then, Juve, what then?" insisted Fandor. "And then," said the detective, "to
make an end of it--for we must not be forever going over the past adventures--
let me tell you, that after many and diverse happenings, a band of smugglers and
false coiners, among whom are to be found individuals already known to you,
notably the Beard, the Cooper, and also that wretch of a Mother Toulouche, one
fine day made the acquaintance of a poor sort of creature, simple-minded, and
anything but sharp-witted--an individual who goes by the name of Cranajour!"
"Cranajour?" queried Fandor, "I don't in the least understand." "Yes,
Cranajour," repeated Juve. "Here is how it came about. You remember when
Fantomas got an unfortunate actor named Valgrand executed in his stead? Well,
our mysterious Fantomas, the better to mislead and bamboozle those who might
suspect this atrocious jugglery, our bandit of genius--for Fantomas has genius--
took the personality of Valgrand for several hours, and dared to go to the
theatre where the real Valgrand was playing. However, as Fantomas was not
capable of playing the part to a finish, he conceived the idea of making those
about Valgrand believe that he had been suddenly afflicted with loss of memory,
and from that moment could not remember anything whatever: Fantomas, the false
Valgrand, could thus pass for the true Valgrand, and be taken as such by the
true Valgrand's intimates!... I humbly confess, Fandor, that I copied Fantomas
by creating Cranajour...."

Juve, then rapidly explained to the journalist the origin of this nickname, and
also told him how the bandits treated him as one of themselves; how, as soon as
they were convinced that he could not remember anything he had seen or heard for
two hours together, they talked freely before him of their plans and doings! The
detective went on:

"I must add, my dear Fandor, that no very sensational revelations have come to
me, so far, through my intimacy with this set of criminals. It seemed to me I
was in the midst of common thieves, who smuggled and circulated false coin; but
one thing did puzzle me--puzzles me still: these folk succeed in selling a
considerable number of pounds sterling, false coin, of course, and that without
my being able to discover, so far, where they sell them--who makes their market.
They also sell lace smuggled from Belgium; that, however, interests me but
little, and I was prepared to leave to the lower ranks of the service the duty
of clearing Paris of this common-place brood of criminals; already, indeed, the
regular police had arrested one of the smugglers, the Cooper, and two of his
subordinate confederates; I was about to turn my back on this crew in order to
give all my attention to a new trail which might put me on the track of Fantomas
once more, when the Dollon affair blazed forth; and then suddenly, I meet again
my Fandor, braver than ever, more perspicacious also, adroitly taking the affair
in hand, bravely thrusting himself into the breach! "Is there any connection
between the Dollon affair and my band of smugglers?" "You will appreciate the
importance of this question and the reply to it in a minute, my Fandor, when you
learn that the Depot warder, Nibet, is one of the most valuable confederates of
the coiners, of Mother Toulouche, of that hooligan, the Beard...."

"Is it possible!" cried Fandor. "Ah, Juve, all this is so strange that I believe
you are really on Fantomas' track, once more!" Juve shook his head; then he
continued:

"I have still a great deal to tell you, but I must pause a moment to say, that I
ought to apologise to you for a fairly brutal act I committed on your behalf--in
your best interests, as you will see...."

And to Fandor, who opened his eyes in astonishment, the detective related, in
humorous fashion, the history of the famous kick he had administered--a kick
wherewith Juve had removed his friend from the immediate and certain danger of
assassination, at the hand and by the knife of Nibet. Fandor could not get over
it! He grasped Juve's hands and pressed them warmly. "My friend! My good
friend!" murmured he, moved almost to tears. "If I had had the least
suspicion!..." Juve interrupted him. "There are many more things, Fandor, you
never suspected, things you ought to know.... And what is more, you seem to me
to be neglecting your work badly at this very moment, Mr. Reporter! It is
already one o'clock in the afternoon; and if they are counting on you to supply
them with information about this affair of the place de l'Opera...."

Fandor leapt to his feet. "It's true!" he cried. "I had quite forgotten it!...
But it is of no importance by the side of ..."

Juve interrupted. "_The affair is serious, Fandor, attention!..._ Do you
remember? It is the formula I employed on two or three occasions, when warning
you, after the assassination of Jacques Dollon, after the attack on Sonia
Danidoff at Thomery's house...."

"What! It was you, Juve!" cried Fandor. "Yes, it was ... but let us pass on!
Time presses. I am going to disappear anew; but you now know where to find me,
in future, and under what form, should occasion require it. Cranajour I am;
Cranajour I remain--for the time being, at any rate. As to you, Fandor, be off
with you at once ... and go and hatch out that article of yours!" Our journalist
rose mechanically; but Juve, thinking better of it, caught him by the arm, drew
him back and pointed out the writing-table. "Come to think of it, you know
nothing about the affair, and I do: there are things which should be said, above
all things, to be hinted at ... do you wish me to give you information?... Sit
yourself there, my lad: I am going to dictate your article to you!" Our
journalist, understanding the gravity of the situation, and well knowing that if
Juve took this course, he had important reasons for so doing, did not say one
word. He simply brought out his fountain pen, screwed it ready for action, and,
with his hand resting on a pile of white paper, he waited. Juve dictated. "First
of all, put this as your title:

_An Audacious Theft_

"That does not tell the reader anything, but it awakens his curiosity.... Let us
continue! "Write." XI

AN AUDACIOUS THEFT

Two hours after Juve had dictated his article to Fandor, our journalist was
reading it, in proof, in the offices of _La Capitale_. His article ran thus:

"By a fortunate coincidence we found ourselves, this very morning, in the
directorial office of the Barbey-Nanteuil bank, chatting with Monsieur Barbey
himself, when Monsieur Nanteuil arrived, breathless, and announced to his
partner that a sensational robbery had just been committed in the rue du Quatre
Septembre, a robbery involving a sum of twenty millions representing a clearance
recently effected by the Federated Republic. "It seems that at ten o'clock this
morning, Monsieur Nanteuil accompanied the little hand-cart used for
transferring the bullion and paper money to the station, from whence it was to
be despatched. According to custom, six of the bank clerks and three plain
clothes men went with Monsieur Nanteuil. But, at the very moment when the hand-
cart passed out of the place de l'Opera and turned the corner of the rue du
Quatre Septembre, that is to say, at the precise moment when it was passing the
palisade, surrounding the works on the Auteuil-Opera Metropolitan line, a
formidable explosion was heard, and the hand-cart, as well as the men who were
drawing it, and escorting it, including Monsieur Nanteuil himself, disappeared
in a deep excavation caused by the explosion, whilst a water pipe which had
burst at the same moment, poured out torrents of water, flooding the surrounding
pavement and roadway. "It was then about eleven o'clock in the morning, and the
rue du Quatre Septembre presented a very animated appearance. At the noise of
the explosion, the passers-by were glued to the spot, dazed, stupefied. Then
exclamations broke out on all sides. "'An accident?' "'A bomb?' "The explosion
had created a veritable chasm. The first moment of stupefaction past, policeman
326 quickly organised the rescuers, and sent notice to the nearest police
station. Some minutes later, the firemen arrived on the scene armed with ladders
and ropes. Meanwhile, the crowd of curious onlookers was increasing with amazing
rapidity. "Monsieur Nanteuil was the first to be drawn up from the pit; by a
miracle he had escaped injury; unfortunately, the clerks of the Barbey-Nanteuil
bank had not got off so well; bruises, contusions, cases of severe shock, more
or less serious, had to be attended to by neighbouring chemists. "Monsieur
Nanteuil, reassured as to the fate of his clerks, turned his attention to the
hand-cart and its millions of bullion, and the police in charge were given to
understand that it must be drawn up without delay. "Into the pit the firemen
once more descended; at first they were surprised not to find the hand-cart and
its millions! No doubt, it had been covered by the mass of fallen bricks and
mortar! But fireman Le Goffic, who had advanced some yards along the railway
line, caught sight of it. The cart was lying upside down; but, except for a few
scratches, it was found to be unbroken. "It was immediately hauled up to the
roadway. Monsieur Nanteuil at once ascertained that the seals were intact. He
then gave orders that it was to be taken back to the Barbey-Nanteuil bank
without delay. As the train, which was to have borne away the bullion, had left
the station hours ago, Monsieur Nanteuil decided to break the seals, and place
the bullion in one of the bank's safes for the night. "Monsieur Nanteuil's
stupefaction can be imagined when, having unsealed and opened the hand-cart, he
realised that the sacks of gold had been replaced by sacks of lead! "It was at
this moment that Monsieur Barbey was informed of the fact by his half-frantic
partner. We were witnesses of this dramatic scene. "Every second was of value:
instant action was the thing! Police headquarters was warned at once; and, but a
few minutes had elapsed, when Monsieur Havard arrived in a taxicab to take
charge of the investigations. "Thanks to the courtesy of Monsieur Havard, we
were allowed to accompany him to the stone-yards of the Metropolitan: the police
were convinced that it was hereabouts that the robbery had been accomplished. We
reached the spot about an hour after the explosion. The first investigations
produced no result; but Monsieur Havard pursued his solitary search up one of
the sidings, and had his reward. His exclamation was heard, and we hastened to
the spot.... He had just found a second hand-cart, in all points similar to that
he had recently examined in the courtyard of the Barbey-Nanteuil bank! "Monsieur
Havard at once realised that he had before his eyes the original hand-cart, and
that the hand-cart he had seen in the bank courtyard was a clever substitute! It
need scarcely be said that there is no trace of the stolen millions to be found
in the original hand-cart, cast away in a siding of the Metropolitan....

"Our readers know something of the appearance presented by these lines, in
course of construction on the Metropolitan railway. We have repeatedly published
in _La Capitale_ details regarding the way in which the engineers and workmen
supervise and execute the cutting of the passageway on the underground. The
operations in the place de l'Opera are on an enormous scale, for there is a
junction here, and the soil is more undermined than elsewhere on the railway.
"At the precise spot where the explosion occurred, there are four galleries in
course of construction: one is the future Auteuil-Opera line, the others either
lead to existing lines, or are galleries made for the convenience of the
workmen. Hand-cart number one, that is to say, the substituted hand-cart filled
with sacks of lead, was found in the passageway of the Auteuil-Opera line, which
is perfectly accessible, and would naturally be visited by the rescuers. "The
original hand-cart was hidden away in one of the lateral galleries, which are
small and narrow, and not likely to be visited and examined, except as a last
resource. It is, therefore, clear that the affair has been carefully arranged: a
premeditated robbery. The presence of the two hand-carts would establish this--
the hand-carts used by the bank for the transport of bullion and other forms of
money are of a particular make--unique, in fact. Their respective positions show
that the robbers had carefully prepared their drama, and it was skilfully
arranged. "Thanks to Monsieur Havard's kindness, we were permitted to approach
the original hand-cart. It was in a lamentable condition: the body of it was
nearly smashed to pieces! Of course, no traces of the seals were to be found.
The only remark we see fit to make in this connection is, that Monsieur
Nanteuil, his clerks, and those who witnessed the accident, must have been
greatly excited and upset, otherwise they would naturally have been much
astonished at finding the substituted hand-cart practically uninjured after an
accident of so crushing a nature. "We have carefully examined the soil round the
original hand-cart, in the hope of finding some clear footprints of the thieves,
or their accomplices; but it was impossible to draw any conclusion from this
examination--the footmarks are intermingled, superimposed, undistinguishable. It
must be admitted the soil of the Metropolitan, hereabouts, has been very much
trampled over and beaten down so that it is difficult to believe that
researches, with the object of discovering the robbers' footmarks, are likely to
have any clear result. "At the moment these lines have been written, the
investigation in the Metropolitan passageways still continues, and will, in all
probability, be continued late into the night. So far, the police admit that
results are meagre. Monsieur Havard considers it certain that the deed is a
premeditated one, carefully prepared, and that, consequently, the explosion
which caused the catastrophe was a deliberate act of violence. On the other
hand, Monsieur Nanteuil declares that outside the parties interested, that is to
say, the Barbey-Nanteuil bank and the Comptoir d'Escomptes, who were to receive
the bullion, not a soul could know of the transfer on that particular morning.
But the staffs of the bank and of the Comptoir National d'Escomptes are
absolutely trustworthy: their honour has never been questioned. "It is evident
that such a daring and desperate deed, carried through so successfully in the
galleries of the Metropolitan, in the sight of all Paris, at eleven o'clock in
the morning, could only be the work of a band of criminals, numerous and
perfectly organised. "'Are we returning to the days of--Fantomas?' "Let us add,
that owing to the number of individuals probably involved, and the daring nature
of the crime, Monsieur Havard considers that it will be extremely difficult for
the guilty persons to escape from the police." Jerome Fandor had just finished
correcting this sensational article, when slips from the Havas Agency arrived at
_La Capitale_. Our journalist cast his eyes over them, thinking he might find
some piece of news which had come to hand at the last minute. As he read he grew
pale. He struck his writing-table a violent blow with his fist. "For all that, I
am not mad!" he cried. And, holding his head between his hands, spelling out
each word, he reread the following telegram from the Havas Agency:

_Affair of the rue du Quatre Septembre_

"_At the last moment of going to press, a bloody imprint has been
discovered on hand-cart number 2. Monsieur Bertillon immediately      identified
this imprint: it was made by the hand of Jacques Dollon,      the criminal who
is already wanted by the police for the murder of      the Baroness de Vibray,
and the robbery committed on the Princess      Sonia Danidoff._"

"But I am not mad!" cried Fandor, when he had read these lines. "I declare I am
not mad! By all that's holy, Jacques Dollon is dead!... Fifty persons have seen
him dead! But, for all that, Bertillon cannot be mistaken!" After a minute or
two, Fandor took up his pen again, and added a note to his article, entitled:--

_Sensational development. The police say: "It is the late Jacques      Dollon
who has stolen the millions! "_

This note showed clearly that Jerome Fandor did not believe that Jacques Dollon
could possibly be involved in this affair, or in either of the other crimes in
connection with which his name had been mentioned. XII

INVESTIGATIONS

A man jumped quickly out of the Auteuil-Madeleine tram. It would have been
difficult to guess his age, or see his face. He wore a large soft hat--a
Brazilian sombrero--whose edges he had turned down. The collar of his overcoat
was turned up, so that the lower part of his face was so far buried in it that
his features were almost hidden. Then, during the entire journey, seated at the
end of the tramcar he had kept his back turned on the other passenger: he seemed
to be absorbed in watching the movements of the driver. At the end of the rue
Mozart, where the rues La Fontaine, Poussin, des Perchamps meet, he had quitted
the tram with real satisfaction. Then, in the silence of the evening, the clock
of Auteuil church had slowly struck eight silvery strokes. The listening man
murmured:

"Oh, there's no hurry after all. I've a two good hours' wait in front of me!"
Leaving the frequented ways, he plunged into the little by-streets, newly made
and not yet named, which join the end of the rue Mozart with the boulevard
Montmorency. He walked fast, at the same time taking his bearings. "Rue
Raffet?... If I don't deceive myself, it lies in this direction!" He reached the
hilly and lonely road bearing that name, which, on both sides of its entire
length, is bordered by attractive private residences. Swiftly, silently,
stealthily, this individual approached one of these houses. He glanced through
the garden railing, scrutinising the windows which were lighted up. "Good! Good!
Decidedly good!" he said, in a low tone of satisfaction.... "But there's two
hours to wait ... they are still in the dining-room, if I am to go by the
lighted windows." The watcher now inspected the rue Raffet. The house which
interested him so much, was situated just where the rue du Docteur Blanche opens
into the street at right angles. Auteuil is certainly not a frequented part,
but, as a rule, the rue Raffet is generally more lonely than any of the streets
in Auteuil: no carriages, no pedestrians. From an early hour in the evening,
that hilly road was, more often than not, quite deserted, so was the rue du
Docteur Blanche, still surrounded by waste land, and more especially at the rue
Raffet end. A glance or two sufficed to show the man the lie of the land. He
noted the feeble glimmer of the street lamps; he made certain that not one of
the neighbouring houses could perceive his actions, mark his movements. He
repeated in a theatrical tone of voice with a note of amusement in it. "Not a
soul! Not a solitary soul! Well, it is no joke to wait here; but, after all, it
is a quiet spot, and I can count on not being disturbed in the job I have in
hand to-night...."

This individual traversed the rue Raffet, gained the rue du Docteur Blanche,
and, wrapping himself up in his voluminous black cloak, ensconced himself in a
break in the palisades bordering the pavement. He stood there motionless; anyone
might have passed within a few yards of him without suspecting his presence, so
still was he, so imperceptibly did his dark figure blend with the blackness of
the night. He started slightly. The church clock struck nine, its notes sounding
silvery clear through the tranquil night ... in the distance some convent clock
chimed an evening prayer, then a deeper silence fell on the darkness of
night.... Suddenly, the front door of the house, which the stranger had watched
with scrutinising intentness, was thrown wide open, showing a large, luminous
square in the darkness. Two women were speaking. "Are you going out, my
darling?" asked the elder. "Don't be anxious, madame," replied a girlish voice.
"There is no need to wait for me. I am only going to the post...."

"Why not give Jules your letter?" "No, I prefer to post it myself." "You would
not like someone to go with you? There are not many people about at this
hour...."

The same fresh, young voice replied:

"Oh, I am not frightened ... besides it's only rue Raffet which is deserted; as
soon as I reach rue Mozart there will be nothing more to fear!" The luminous
square, drawn on the obscurity of the garden, disappeared. The mysterious
stranger, who had not lost a word of this conversation, heard the door of the
vestibule close, then the gravel of the garden crunch under the feet of the girl
coming down the path. Very soon the gate of the garden grated on its badly oiled
hinges, and then the elegant outline of a young girl was visible on the badly
lighted pavement. She was walking fast.... The stranger remained stationary
until the girl had gone some way; then pressing against the wall, concealing his
movements with practised ability, he followed her at a discreet distance....

"There can be no doubt about it," he murmured. "I recognised her voice
directly!... It's the very deuce!... It's going to complicate matters!... A
lover's meeting? Not likely!... She must be going to the post, as she said....
She will return in about a quarter of an hour, and then ... then!..." The girl
was far from suspecting that she was being followed. She had walked down rue
Mozart, turned into rue Poussin, posted her letter, and then walked quietly back
to the house. The stranger had not followed her into the more frequented
streets: he awaited her return in a dark and deserted side street. When she came
into view again, he sighed a sigh of great satisfaction. "Ah, there is the dear
child!... That's all right.... Now we shall have some fun!... or, rather, I
shall!" Anyone seeing his face, whilst making these significant exclamations,
would have been frightened by his sneering chuckle, his hideous grin. A few
minutes later, the girl re-entered the little garden of the house in the rue
Raffet. A stout woman opened to her ring. "Ah, there you are, darling." There
was relief in her tone. "Yes, here I am, safe and sound, madame!" "Nothing
unpleasant--no one molested you, Elizabeth?" Elizabeth Dollon, for she it was,
shook her head and smiled a smile both sad and sweet. "Ah, no, madame!... I was
sure you would be waiting for me--I am so sorry!" "No, not at all!... Tell me,
Elizabeth.... Jules has told me that you would not be going out to-morrow. The
poor fellow is so stupid that I ask myself if he has not made a mistake?" "No,"
said Elizabeth. "It is quite true.... I do not think I shall go out, either in
the morning or the afternoon." "You expect a caller?" "It is possible someone
may come to see me.... If by any chance I have to go out for a few minutes, to
get something or other, I must warn Jules: he must make the visitor wait: I
shall not go far in case..."

"All right! That's settled then, darling. Now, good night, I am going to my
room." "Good evening, madame, and good night!" Leaving stout and kindly Madame
Bourrat, owner of this private boarding-house where Elizabeth Dollon had found a
refuge, the poor girl, still with a smile on her pale lips, made her way
upstairs, entered her bedroom, and carefully locked the door. She lit the lamp.
Her face now wore a tragic look: its expression was wild and desperate....

"If only he would come!" she sighed.... "Ah, I am afraid! I am afraid!... I am
terribly afraid!" Elizabeth stood motionless--a frozen image of fear--all but
her eyes: they were casting terrified glances about her....

And no wonder! Elizabeth was neatness personified, and her room was kept with
exquisite care--but now, everything was in the greatest disorder.... The drawers
of her chest of drawers were piled one on top of the other in a corner of the
room; their contents were thrown down in heaps a little way off; books had been
cast pell-mell on a sofa; a great wicker trunk, wherein Elizabeth had packed
numerous papers belonging to her brother, was overturned on the floor, the lid
open. Its contents were scattered near--a confused mass of documents and
crumpled papers. Elizabeth stared about her for a long minute, and again she
cried:

"Oh, if only he would come! What is the meaning of all this?..." She regained
her self-control. Her usual expression of serene gravity returned. "To go to
sleep," she murmured. "That is the best thing--to-morrow will come more quickly
so--and, oh, I am so sleepy, so very, very tired!" Soon Elizabeth blew out her
lamp--darkness reigned in her room. *       *       *       *       *

It was about half-past ten o'clock, and the light in Elizabeth Dollon's room had
been extinguished for some little while, when the front door of the little house
was opened again....

Noiselessly, with infinite precautions, with searching and suspicious glances,
taking care to keep off the gravel of the paths, tip-toeing on the grass edging
the flower beds, where his steps made no sound, a man left the house and went
towards the garden gate. He quickly reached it; and there he commenced to
whistle a soft, slow, monotonous, and continuous whistle. Second succeeded
second; then another whistle, identical in rhythm, replied: soon a voice asked:

"It's you, Jules?" "It is I, master!" The man whom Jules named "master," was the
stranger, who, for two weary hours, had kept strict watch over the goings and
comings of the house....

"All well, Jules?" "All well, master!" "And nothing new?..." "I don't know about
that, master: she has written a letter...."

"To whom?..." "I couldn't say.... I could not see the address, master...."

"You red-headed idiot!" The servant protested. "No, it was not my fault!... She
did not write in the drawing-room, but in her own room.... I couldn't get a
squint at her paper...."

"Did she not say anything?" "Nothing." "Did she look upset?" "A little." "No one
suspects anything?" "I hope not, master!... Gods and little fishes, if anyone
suspected!" The visitor's voice grew harsh, imperious. "Enough," said he. "We
have no time to lose!" "How? No time...."

"That's it! We must set to work...."

"Work?... Now?... This very night?... Oh, master, surely not!" "Don't I? Do you
imagine that I arranged a meeting only for the pleasure of talking to you?...
Come on, now!... March!" "What are we to do?" A moment's silence. "I cannot see
the house very well, because of the branches: listen--look!... Isn't there a
light?... Someone still up?" "No. They've all gone to bed." "Good. And she?"
"She, too." "You did what I told you?" "Yes, master." "You were able to pour out
the narcotic?" "Yes, master." "And then?" "What do you mean by then?" "Have you
carried out all my orders ... the last?" "Yes, it is all right!... I went into
her room and blew out the lamp." "Good! Now for it!..." A slight brushing sound,
along the low stone wall of the garden, was barely perceptible to a listening
ear. The wall was topped by railings, and the gate had sheets of iron fastened
to it. In a twinkling, the stranger leaped down beside Jules. "It's child's play
to vault that gate," he said. By the uncertain light of the stars, Jules could
see the individual who had just joined him. His appearance was fantastic, and
the wretched Jules started and trembled in every limb. The stranger, who had
thus invaded Madame Bourrat's domain, who a short while before had been wearing
a long cloak and immense sombrero, wore them no longer. Probably he had rid
himself of them by casting them among the bramble bushes on the waste ground
around rue Docteur Blanche.... Now he was clad in a long black knitted garment
moulded tightly to his figure, a sinister garment, by means of which the wearer
can blend with the darkness so as to be almost indistinguishable. His face was
entirely concealed by a long black hood, a movable mask, which prevented his
features being seen: through two slits gleamed two eyeballs: they might have
burned a way through like glowing coals. "Master!... Master!" murmured Jules.
"What are you going to do now?" This spectral figure replied in a low tone:

"Fool!... go on in front--or no--better follow me! And not a sound--it's as much
as your skin is worth!... Take care--great care!" The two men advanced in
silence. But, while Jules seemed to take exaggerated precautions to prevent
being heard, his companion seemed naturally shod with silence. He advanced
noiselessly, almost invisible in his black garment. The two accomplices were
soon at the front-door steps of the house. "Open," commanded the master. Jules
slipped a key into the lock: noiselessly the door turned on its hinges.
"Listen," whispered the cloaked man. "Half-way up the stairs, you must stop: I
do not wish you to go right up...."

"But..."

"Do as I say! You must keep watch.... If, by chance, you should hear a noise, if
I were to be taken by surprise, you must go downstairs, making a great noise and
shouting at the top of your voice: 'Stop him!... Stop him!...' Thus, in the
first moment of confusion, everyone will rush after you, and that will give me
time to choose my way of escape." Jules, whatever his fears, did not dare to
question his instructions. "Very good, master," he breathed. "I'll do as you
say." "I should think you would," scoffed his master, almost inaudibly. Leaving
his accomplice on the stairs, the masked man went forward. He seemed to know the
ins and outs of the house, for he turned into the corridor and, without a
moment's hesitation, walked towards the door of Elizabeth Dollon's room. He put
his ear against it. "She sleeps," he murmured. He had inserted a key in the
lock: there was an obstacle to its easy entrance. "Confound it! The girl has
left her own key in the lock!" he said softly.... "What the deuce am I to do
now? What did Jules do when he got in and put out the lamp?... Why, of course,
he took off the screw that fixes the staple--a simple push will suffice." With a
push of his shoulder the door yielded. The stranger entered and carefully closed
the door. He walked to the window and drew the curtains, muttering:

"That fool should have thought of this just now." Taking a small electric torch
from his pocket he turned on the light. Calmly, collectedly, he approached a
couch at one side of the room.... On it lay Elizabeth Dollon in a deep sleep.
She looked white as death. "An excellent narcotic," he muttered, bending over
the unconscious girl. "When one thinks that she took it at dinner, then went
out, and that then it produced its effect!..." Moving away from Elizabeth, he
crossed the room to where the contents of the overturned trunk lay. "Damnable
papers!" he growled low. "To think!... It is too late now to continue the
search.... Bah! By shutting the mouth of an informant ... that's the way to
settle it ... the best way too!... Now for it!..." Without apparent effort, the
man in the hooded mask seized Elizabeth Dollon in his muscular arms. "Come,
mademoiselle," he said in a jeering tone. "Come to bye-bye! Sleep better than on
this sofa! You will sleep a longer sleep, that's certain!" An evil smile
punctuated these sinister remarks. He laid the poor girl's body on the floor in
the middle of the room; then, approaching a little gas stove, he detached the
india-rubber tube and slipped the end of it between his victim's teeth. He
turned the gas tap.... "Perfect!" he said, as he straightened himself. "To-
morrow morning, early, at eight o'clock, or at nine, the excellent Madame
Bourrat will open the meter. The narcotic this child has taken will prevent her
from waking, so that, without suffering, without cries, quite gently--pfuit!...
sweet Elizabeth will pass from life to death!... But it will not do to linger
here ... let us find Jules and give him the necessary instructions!" The
stranger went out into the corridor closing the door. The thing had been well
managed; the screws keeping the bolt case in position were put back in their
holes--the key remained inside--no one would suspect that only a slight push was
necessary to get into the room. With a chuckle, the stranger bent down and
pushed a tassel under the door. The servant must not discover the trick when she
is sweeping the passage: now with this wedge, the door cannot be opened without
a violent push. With a last glance up and down the passage, illuminated for a
moment by his electric torch, the stranger made sure that there was no one about
to see him; then, with silent tread, he began to go downstairs....

Half-way down, his accomplice awaited him. "Well, master?" questioned Jules in a
low, trembling voice. In a calm, quiet voice, the man in the hood mask replied:

"It is done--is successful.... I have wedged the door to. You will be careful
when you are sweeping to-morrow." Jules lowered his head. "Yes ... yes.... Have
you?..." The stranger put his hand on the servant's shoulder. "Listen,"
whispered the stranger, "I do not repeat my orders twenty times over,... have I
not already told you that I do not allow myself to be questioned?... try to
remember that!... You wish to know whether I have killed her?... Well, I will
tell you this: I have not killed her. But I have so managed things that she will
kill herself!... A suicide, you understand.... One piece of advice: to-morrow,
keep anyone from going to her room as long as you can ... if Madame Bourrat, or
anyone else asks for her, you must say that you saw her leave the house--that
she has gone out...."

"But," protested Jules, "it is impossible, what you tell me to say, master! It
just happens that she is expecting visitors to-morrow!... She told me that, on
this account, she meant to stay indoors all day!" The man with the hood mask
ground his teeth. "You idiot! What does that matter?... You are to say:
Mademoiselle Elizabeth has just gone out, but she told me that she was not going
far, and that she would return in about twenty minutes.... If anyone should ask
for her again, you are to answer that she has not come in yet!..." "But ...
master ... when they find out what's happened really?..." "Ho! When it is
discovered, it will seem quite natural that a person who means to commit suicide
--for she will have committed suicide, you understand--should have taken
precautions not to be disturbed ... you grasp this?" "Yes, master ... yes!..."
They had returned to the garden: the man in the hooded mask was preparing to get
over the gate....

"Farewell! Be faithful! Be intelligent!... You know what you have to gain?...
You also know what risks you run?... Eh!... Now go!" "You will return to-morrow,
master?" The man with the hooded mask looked his accomplice up and down. "I
shall return when it pleases me to do so." Then, with marvellous agility,
without making a spring for it, with a quite extraordinary muscular flexibility
and power, the stranger leaped on to the little wall, cleared the gate, and
disappeared into the night....

Jules, with bent head, much moved, terribly anxious, slowly walked back to the
house....

XIII

RUE RAFFET

Maray, second reporter of _La Capitale_, shook hands with Fandor. "Are you in a
good humour, dear boy?" "So--so...."

"Ah! Well, here is something which will cheer you up, I'm sure!... Here's a
letter from a lady for you.... I found it in my pigeon-hole by mistake!" Fandor
smiled. "From a lady?... You must be mistaken!... How do you know it is?" "By
the handwriting, the paper, and so on--I'm not mistaken--am I ever?..."
Laughing, Maray threw down on Fandor's table a small envelope with a deep black
border. "Yes, it is a letter from a woman," said Fandor, as he picked it up:
"from whom?... Ah,... why yes!..." With a hasty finger, he tore open the
envelope whilst his colleague withdrew making a joking remark. "Dear boy, I
leave you to this tender missive: I should be annoyed with myself were I to
interrupt your reflections!" Fandor's friend would have been surprised, if he
could have seen the gloomy expression which the perusal of this so-called love-
letter produced. Jerome had turned to the signature--_Elizabeth Dollon_. "What
does she want with me?" he asked himself. "After the extraordinary affair of rue
du Quatre Septembre, one must suppose that she has arrived at some conclusion
regarding the possible guilt of her brother ... so long as she does not let her
imagination run away with her, and, like the police, fancy that Jacques Dollon
is still in the land of the living? The position the poor thing is in is a very
cruel one!" Fandor had met Jacques Dollon's young sister repeatedly; and, every
time, he had been more and more troubled by the poor girl's touching grief, as
well as by her pathetic beauty, which had made a great impression on him.... He
began to read her letter. _"Dear Sir,_

_You have been so good to me in all my troubles, you have shown me      such
true sympathy, that I do not hesitate to ask your help once      more._

_Such an extraordinary thing has happened to me which I cannot      account for
at all, which, nevertheless, makes me think, more than      ever, that my poor
brother is living, innocent, and kept prisoner,      perhaps by those who compel
him to accept the responsibility for      all those horrible crimes you know
about._

_To-day, whilst I was in Paris on business, some people, of whom I      know
nothing, I need hardly say, whom not a soul in the private      boarding-house
where I am saw, these persons entered my room!_

_I found all my belongings turned upside down; my papers scattered      over the
floor, every drawer and trunk and box ransacked from top      to bottom!_

_You can guess how frightened I was...._

_I do not think they had come to do me any personal harm, not even      to rob
me, for I had left my modest jewellery on the mantelpiece      and found them
still there: those who entered my room did not covet      valuables._

_Then, why did they come?_

_You are perhaps going to say that my imagination is playing me      tricks!...
Nevertheless, I assure you that I try to keep calm, but      I cannot keep
control of myself, and I am terribly afraid!_

_I have just said that nothing was stolen from me; I think,      however, it
right to mention one strange coincidence._

_I was convinced that I had left, in a little red pocket-book, the      list I
spoke to you of, which had been retrieved at my brother's      house on the day
of Madame de Vibray's death. It was, as I have      told you, written in green
ink by a person whose handwriting I do      not know. I can hardly tell why, but
amidst all the disorders in my      room I immediately searched for this list.
The little pocket-book      was on the floor amongst other papers, but the list
was not to be      found in it._

_Am I mistaken? Have I packed it in somewhere else, or, allowing      for the
fact that everything had been turned upside down, has this      paper slipped
among other papers, which would explain why I had not      come across it
again?_

_In spite of myself, I must confess to you that the thieves, I      fancy, had
only one aim in view when they entered my room, and that      was to get hold of
this list._

_What is your opinion?_

_I feel that perhaps I am about to show myself both inconsiderate      and
injudicious, but you know how miserable I am, and you will      understand how
the position I am in gives me grounds for being      distracted. I am bent on
talking this over with you, on knowing      what you think of it. Perhaps even,
knowing how clever you are, you      might be able to find something, an
indication, some detail, in my      room? I have not touched anything._

_I shall stay indoors all to-morrow in the hope of seeing you; do      come if
you possibly can. It seems to me that I am forsaken by      everyone, and I
trust only you...."_

Jerome Fandor read and reread this letter, which had been written with a
trembling hand. "Poor little soul!" he murmured. "Here is something more to add
to her troubles! It is really terrible! It seems to me as if we should never
come to the end of it; and I ask myself, whether the police will ever find the
key to all these mysteries!... "Did someone really break into Elizabeth Dollon's
room to steal this paper? It is rather improbable. Judging from what she told
me, there is nothing compromising in it. But then, why this search?... She is
right so far: if the intruders had been merely thieves, they would have carried
off her jewellery!... Then it is for that paper they came? Besides, ordinary
burglars would have had considerable difficulty in getting into her room, where
she is remarkably well guarded, by the very fact of there being other boarders
in the house....

"No, the very audacity of this attempted theft seems to prove, that it is
connected with the other affairs which have brought the name of Jacques Dollon
into such prominence! "I see in this the same extraordinary audacity, the same
certainty of escape, the same long and careful preparation, for it is a by no
means convenient place for a burglary in open day: comings and goings are
perpetual, and the guilty persons ran a hundred risks of being caught...."

Fandor interrupted his reflections to read Elizabeth's letter once more. "She is
dying of fright! That is evident!... In any case she calls to me for help. Her
letter was posted yesterday evening.... I will go and see her--and at once....
Who knows but I might find some clue which would put me on the right track?" *
*       *       *       *

Jerome Fandor did not feel very hopeful. After having gone carefully over every
point connected with, and pertaining to, the affair of rue du Quatre Septembre,
he had almost come to the conclusion, optimistic as he was regarding the police,
that chance alone would bring about the arrest of the guilty parties. "To lay
these criminals by the heels," he had frankly declared, "requires the aid of
very favourable circumstances, and without them, neither I nor the police will
get at the truth of it all." Fandor made a definite distinction between the
opinion of the police and his own, because two different theories now obtained
with regard to the two affairs: that of the attack on the Princess Sonia
Danidoff, and that of the robbery of rue du Quatre Septembre, where the imprints
of Jacques Dollon's fingers had been found. The police and Fandor coupled
Monsieur Havard with Monsieur Bertillon under this definition; the police held
it for certain that Jacques Dollon was alive, very much alive, and the
probabilities were great that he was guilty of the different crimes attributed
to him. In an interview granted to a press rival of _La Capitale_ Monsieur
Bertillon had stated:

"We base our assertion that Dollon is alive, and consequently guilty, on
material facts: we have found his signature attached to each of the crimes, and
it is a signature which cannot be imitated by anyone...."

For his part, Fandor held it as certain that Jacques was dead. "I maintain that,
since fifty persons have seen Jacques Dollon dead, it is infinitely more likely
that he is dead than that he is alive! The imprints of his fingers, his hand,
are equally visible, it is true, and seem to prove that he is alive. But the
conclusive nature of this test is nullified by the fact that, before the
discovery of these imprints, before these imprints had been made, Jacques Dollon
was dead!" And in his articles in _La Capitale_, Jerome Fandor, with a
persistency which finished by disconcerting even the most convinced partisans of
the police contention, continued to maintain that Jacques Dollon was dead, dead
as dead, and, to use his own expression, "as dead as it was possible for anyone
to be dead!" Jerome Fandor had just rung the bell at the garden gate of Madame
Bourrat's private boarding-house in Auteuil. Jules hastened to answer this ring,
and was met by the question:

"Is Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon at home?" "No, monsieur. She went out not an
hour ago!" "And you are certain she has not returned?" "Absolutely, monsieur....
There are two visitors waiting for her already." "She will be in soon, then?"
"Certainly, monsieur: she will not be long...."

Fandor looked at his watch. "A quarter past ten!... Very well, I will wait for
her." "If monsieur will kindly follow me?" Fandor was shown into the drawing-
room. He had advanced only a step or two when he was greeted with:

"Why! Monsieur Fandor!" "I am delighted to see you!" cried Fandor, shaking hands
with Monsieur Barbey and Monsieur Nanteuil. Both gave him a pleasant smile of
welcome. "You have come to see Mademoiselle Dollon, I suppose?" "Yes. We have
come to assure her that we will do all in our power to help her out of her
terrible difficulties. She wrote to us a few days ago to ask if we would act as
intermediaries regarding the sale of some of her unfortunate brother's
productions, also to see if we could get her a situation in some dressmaking
establishment.... We have come to assure her of our entire sympathy." "That is
most kind of you! They told you, did they not, that she had gone out? I think
she will not be absent long, for I have an appointment with her. But, if you
will allow me, I will go to the office and ask if they have the least idea of
which way she has gone, for I have little time to spare, and if we could go to
meet her, it would save, at least, a few minutes...."

Jerome Fandor rose and went towards one of the drawing-room doors. "You are
making a mistake," said Monsieur Nanteuil, "the office is this way," and he
pointed to another door. "Bah! All roads lead to Rome!" With that, Fandor went
out by the door he had approached first....

"They are nice fellows," said Fandor to himself. "If Elizabeth Dollon is really
not in!... but... Is she really not in the house? I am by no means sure.... If
she feels timid at the idea of seeing the bankers--their visit may have made her
nervous, considering the state she is in ... she might have sent to say she was
not at home in order to have time to add some finishing touches to her
toilette." Fandor, who knew the house, mounted the little staircase leading to
the first floor. Elizabeth's room was on this floor. Before her door he stopped
and sniffed. "Queer smell!" he murmured. "It smells like gas!" He knocked
boldly, calling:

"Mademoiselle Elizabeth! It is I, Fandor!" The smell of gas became more
pronounced as he waited. A horrible idea, an agonising fear, flashed through his
mind. He knocked as hard as he could on the door. "Mademoiselle Elizabeth!
Mademoiselle!" No answer. He called down the stairs:

"Waiter!... Porter!" But apparently the one and only manservant the house
boasted was occupied elsewhere, for no one answered. Fandor returned to the door
of Elizabeth's room, knelt down and tried to look through the keyhole. The
inside key was there, which seemed to confirm his agonising fear. "She has not
gone out then?" He took a deep breath. "What a horrible smell of gas!" This time
he did not hesitate. He rose, stepped back, sprang forward, and with a vigorous
push from the shoulder, he drove the door off its hinges. "My God!" he shouted.
In the centre of the room, Fandor had just seen Elizabeth Dollon lying
unconscious. A tube, detached from a portable gas stove, was between her tightly
closed lips! The tap was turned full on. He flung himself on his knees near the
poor girl, pulled away the deadly tube, and put his ear to her heart. What joy,
what happiness, he felt when he heard, very feeble but quite unmistakable
beatings of Elizabeth's heart! "She lives!" What unspeakable relief Jerome
Fandor felt! What thankfulness! The noise he had made breaking the door off its
hinges brought the whole household running to the spot. As the manservant,
followed by Madame Bourrat, followed in turn by Monsieur Barbey and Nanteuil,
appeared in the doorway uttering cries of terror, Jerome called out:

"No one is to come in!... It is an accident!" Then lifting Elizabeth in his
strong arms, he carried her out of the room. "What she needs is air!" He hurried
downstairs and out into the garden with his precious burden, followed by the
terrified witnesses of the scene. "You have saved her life, monsieur!" cried
Madame Bourrat in a tragic voice. She groaned. "Oh, what a scandal!" "Yes, I
have saved her," replied Fandor as, panting with his exertions, he laid
Elizabeth Dollon flat on a garden seat.... "But from whom?... It is certainly
not attempted suicide! There is some mystery behind this business: it's a
regular theatrical performance arranged simply for effect, and to mislead us,"
declared Fandor. Then, turning to the bankers, he said courteously but with an
air of command:

"Please lay information with the superintendent of police at once ... the
nearest police station, you understand!" "Madame," he said, addressing the
overwhelmed Madame Bourrat, "you will be good enough to look after Mademoiselle
Dollon, will you not?... Take every care of her. There is not much to be done,
however! I have seen many cases of commencing asphyxia: she will regain
consciousness now, in a few minutes." Then, looking at the manservant, he said
in a sharp tone:

"Come with me! You will mount guard at the door of Mademoiselle Elizabeth's
room, whilst I try to discover some clues, before the police arrive on the
scene." To tell the truth, our young journalist felt embarrassed at the idea
that Elizabeth Dollon was about to regain consciousness, and that he would have
to submit to being thanked by her, when she knew who had saved her. Accompanied
by the manservant, he went quickly upstairs and into Elizabeth's room. "You must
not enter Mademoiselle Dollon's room on any account!" said Fandor sternly. "It
is quite enough that I should run the risk of effacing the, probably very
slight, clues which the delinquents have left behind them...."

"But, monsieur, if the young lady put the tubing between her lips, it must have
been because she wished to destroy herself!" "On the face of it you are right,
my good fellow. But, when one is right, one is often wrong!" Without more ado,
Fandor started on a minute inspection of the room. Elizabeth had but stated the
truth when she wrote that it had been thoroughly ransacked. Only her toilet
things had been spared; but some books had been taken from their shelves and
thrown about the floor, their pages crumpled and spoilt. He noticed the emptied
trunk: its contents--copy books, letters, pieces of music--had been roughly
dealt with. On the mantelpiece, in full view, lay Elizabeth's jewellery--some
rings and brooches, a small gold watch, a purse. "A very queer affair," murmured
Fandor, who was kneeling in the middle of the room, rummaging, searching, and
not finding any clue. He rose, carefully examined all the woodwork, but found
nothing incriminating. He examined the lock of the unhinged door, which had
subsided on the floor. The lock was intact, the bolt moved freely: the screws
only of the staple had given way. "That," thought Fandor, "is probably owing to
the force of my thrust!" The window fastening was intact: the window closed. "If
the robbers," reflected Fandor, "got into a closed room, they must have used
false keys." Having examined the means of access to the room, Fandor started on
a still more minute examination of the interior. He scrutinised the furniture
and the slight powdering of dust on each article: in vain!... Then the washstand
had its turn: nothing!... He scrutinised the soap. "Ah! This is interesting!" he
cried. The manservant had made himself scarce; and Fandor, unobserved, could
wrap up the piece of soap in his handkerchief and hide it in the lowest drawer
of the chest of drawers, under a pile of linen. He was whistling now. "That bit
of soap is interesting--very!" he cried. "Let the police come! I am not afraid
of their blundering!... Now to see how Elizabeth is getting on!" When he reached
her side, he found she had recovered full consciousness, and was preparing to
answer the questions of a police superintendent, who, summoned by the bankers,
had hastened to the scene of action. He was a stout, apoplectic man, very full
of his own importance. "Come now, mademoiselle, tell us just how things happened
from beginning to end! We ask nothing better than to believe you, but do not
conceal any detail--not the slightest...."

Poor Elizabeth Dollon, when she heard this speech, stared at the pompous police
official, astonished. What had she to conceal? What had she to gain by lying?
What did he think, this fat policeman, who took it upon himself to issue orders,
when he should rather have tried to comfort her! Nevertheless, she at once began
telling him all that she knew with regard to the affair. She told him of her
letter to Fandor: that her room had been visited the evening before: by whom she
did not know ... that she had not said a word about it to anyone, fearing
vengeance would fall on her, frightened, not understanding what it all meant....

Then she came to what the police dignitary called "her suicide." As she finished
her recital with a reference to her rescue by Fandor, she looked at the young
journalist. It was a look of great gratitude and a kind of ardent tenderness,
with a touch of fear in it. "Strange, very strange!" pronounced the
superintendent of police, who had been taking notes with an air of great
gravity. "So very strange, mademoiselle, that it is very difficult to credit
your statements!... very difficult indeed!..." Whilst he was speaking, Fandor
was saying to himself:

"Decidedly, it is that!... Just what I was thinking! It is quite clear, clear as
the sun in the sky, evident, indisputable!" And he refused, very politely of
course--for one has to respect the authorities--to accompany the superintendent,
who, in his turn, went upstairs to Elizabeth's room, in order to carry out the
necessary legal verification....

XIV

SOMEONE TELEPHONED

The nuns of the order of Saint Augustin were not expelled in consequence of the
Decrees. This was a special favour, but one fully justified, because of the
incalculable benefits this community conferred on suffering humanity. The vast
convent of rue de la Glaciere continues to serve as a shelter for these holy
women, and as a sort of hospital for the sick. For close on a hundred years,
generation after generation of those living near its walls have heard the
convent clock sound the hours in solemn tones; so, too, the convent chapel's
shrill-voiced bells have never failed to remind the faithful that the daily
offices of their church are being said and sung by the holy sisters within the
hallowed walls. In the vast quarter of Paris, peopled with hospitals and
prisons, the convent shows a stern front in the shape of a high, blackened wall.
A great courtyard gate, in which a window with iron bars and grating is the only
visible opening to the exterior world. About half-past six in the morning,
slightly out of breath with his rapid walk from the Metropolitan station, Jerome
Fandor rang the convent door bell. The sound could be heard echoing and re-
echoing in the vaulted corridors, till it died away in the stony distance. There
was a silence: then the iron-barred window was half opened, and Fandor heard a
voice asking:

"What do you want, monsieur?" "I wish to speak to Madame the Superior," replied
Fandor. The window was closed again and a lengthy silence followed. Then,
slowly, the heavy entrance gate swung half open. Fandor entered the convent.
Under the arched doorway, a nun received him with a slight salutation, and
turned her back. "Kindly follow me," she murmured. Fandor followed along a
narrow passage, on one side of which were cells, whilst on the other, it opened
by means of large bays, on a vast rectangular cloister quite deserted. A door-
window in the passage was ajar: the nun stopped here and said:

"Kindly wait in this parlour, and be good enough to let me have your card. I
will inform our Mother Superior that you wish to see her." The room in which our
journalist found himself was severely furnished: its walls were white, on them
hung a great ivory crucifix, and here and there, a simple religious picture
framed in ebony. A few chairs were ranged in a circle about an oval table: on
the floor, polished till it shone like a mirror, were a few small mats, which
gave a touch of common-place comfort to the icy regularity of this parlour, set
apart for official visits. What emotions, what dramas, what joys, have had this
parlour for a setting! It is there that the life of the cloister touches mundane
existence; it is there the nuns receive their future companions in the religious
life and their weeping families; it is there the parents of those in the convent
infirmary come to hear from the doctor's lips the decrees of life or death; for
the convent is not only a retreat, it is an asylum for the sick, the ailing,
recommended to their patients by the most eminent doctors, the most prominent
surgeons. Accustomed though he was to every kind of human misery, Fandor
shuddered at the thought of all these walls had seen and heard. His reflections
were broken by the arrival of a little old lady, whose eyes shone strangely
luminous in her pale and wrinkled face--a face showing the highest distinction.
Fandor made a deep bow: it might have expressed the reverence of the world to
religion. "Madame la Superieure," murmured he, "I have come to pay my respects
to you and to ask for news of your boarder." The Mother Superior, in a gay tone,
which contrasted with her cold and reserved appearance, replied at once:

"Ah, you preferred to come yourself! You had not the patience to wait at the
telephone? I quite understand. Would you believe it, while the sister, who has
charge of this young girl, was being sent for, the communication was cut off.
That is why we could not give you any information." Fandor stared. "But I do not
understand, madame?" The Mother Superior replied:

"Was it not you then who telephoned this morning to ask for news of Mademoiselle
Dollon?" "I certainly did not do so!" "In that case, I do not understand what it
means, either! But it does not matter much: you shall see your protegee now."
The Mother Superior rang: a sister appeared. "Sister, will you take this
gentleman to Mademoiselle Dollon! She was walking in the park a short while ago,
and is probably there now.... Monsieur, I bid you good day." Gliding swiftly and
noiselessly over the polished floor, the Mother Superior disappeared. The nun
led the way and Fandor followed: he was very much upset by what the Mother
Superior had just told him. "How had Elizabeth's place of refuge been so quickly
discovered?... Who could have telephoned to get news of her?" The nun had led
Fandor across the great rectangular courtyard; then by corridors, and many
winding, vaulted passages, they had come out on to a terrace, overlooking an
immense park, which extended further than the eye could see. Here were bosky
dells, ancient trees, bowers and grooves, meadows where milky mothers chewed the
cud in the shade of blossoming apple trees. It might have been in Normandy, a
hundred leagues from Paris! The nun turned to the admiring Fandor. "The young
lady you seek, monsieur, is coming along this path: there she is!... I will
leave you." Fandor had seen Elizabeth's graceful figure moving towards him,
thrown into charming relief by the country landscape flooded with sunshine. In
her modest mourning dress, with her fair shining hair, she appeared prettier
than ever: a touching figure of sorrowing beauty! Elizabeth pressed Fandor's
hands warmly. "Oh, thank you, monsieur, thank you!" she cried, "for having come
to see me this morning. I know how little spare time you have! I feel vexed with
myself for putting you out so ... but you see"--Elizabeth could not repress a
sob--"I am so alone ... so desolate ... I have lost everything I cared for ...
and you are the only person I can trust and confide in now!... I feel like a bit
of wreckage at the mercy of wind and wave; I feel as though I were surrounded by
enemies: I live in a nightmare.... What should I do without you to turn to?..."
Our young journalist, moved by such great misfortune so simply, so candidly
expressed, returned the pressure of Elizabeth's hands. "You know, mademoiselle,"
he said softly, but in a voice vibrating with sympathetic emotion--the only sign
of feeling he permitted himself to show--"you know that you can count absolutely
on me. In getting you to take a few days' rest in this retreat, I felt I was
doing what was best for you. You are not solitary; but your surroundings are
peaceful and friendly, and should you have enemies, though I am loath to think
it, you are sheltered here beyond their reach. With reference to that, have you
given your address to anyone, since yesterday?" "To no one," replied Elizabeth.
"Has anyone by chance?..." She looked troubled, and gave an anxious questioning
glance at Fandor. He did not want to frighten the much-tried girl, but he wished
to solve the mystery of the unaccountable telephone call. "Oh, I just wished to
know, mademoiselle.... Now, tell me, have you quite recovered from ... your
experience of the other day?" "Ah, monsieur, I owe my life to you!" cried
Elizabeth. "For, I am certain that someone wished to get rid of me ... don't you
agree with me?... I must have been dosed with some narcotic, just as they dosed
my poor brother, for I am now absolutely convinced that he also was sent to
sleep and poisoned...."

"And that he is dead! Is that not so?" asked Fandor in a low voice. Without
hesitation, in a tearful voice, Elizabeth repeated:

"And that he is dead. You have given me so many proofs that it is so, that I can
no longer doubt it, alas! But I will take courage, as I promised you I would. I
ought to live, that I may strive to rehabilitate his memory, and restore to him
his reputation as a man of probity, of honour, to which he is entitled. But
directly I begin to think about the horrible mystery in which I am involved, my
very reason seems to totter--you can understand that, can you not? I don't
understand, I don't know, I can't guess ... oh!..." "But," interrupted Fandor,
"we must seriously consider the situation in all its bearings. It may cause you
atrocious suffering, but you must summon all your courage, mademoiselle. We must
discuss it." Fandor and Elizabeth had moved away from the terrace, and were now
in the leafy solitudes of the park. Fandor began:

"There is that paper with its list of names, written in green ink, mademoiselle!
It was a mistake on your part not to attach any importance to it until you
fancied, and perhaps rightly, that someone had tried to steal it from you. Come
now, can you tell me whether this list is still in your possession, or not?"
Elizabeth shook her head sadly. "I do not know, I cannot tell! My poor head is
so bewildered, and I find it all the trouble in the world to collect my
thoughts. I told you, the other day, that this list had disappeared from a
little red pocket book, that I had put on the chimney piece of my room at
Auteuil. But the more I think it over, the more doubtful I am.... It seems to me
now, that this list ought to be, must be still--unless it has been stolen since
--in the big trunk, into which I threw, pell-mell, the papers and books my
brother left scattered about his writing table. To be quite sure about this, we
must return to Auteuil.... But perhaps it is useless; because when I wanted to
send it to you some forty-eight hours ago, I searched everywhere for the
wretched thing, and in vain!... I am not even sure now that I brought it away
with me from rue Norvins!" Fandor gently comforted the distracted girl whose
eyes were full of tears. "Do not be disheartened. Try rather to put together in
your memory what was written in this paper! You told me, surely, that there were
names in this list of persons you knew, or had heard of? Search your memory a
little, mademoiselle." "I don't know! I cannot remember!" cried Elizabeth
nervously. "Come now," said Fandor encouragingly, "I know an excellent way of
assisting the memory. The eyes are like a sensitive photographic plate: what the
brain does not always retain, the mirror of the eye registers: do not try to
remember, but try, as it were, to read on white paper what your eyes saw!..."
"Let us sit down a minute and I will help you to do it!" Fandor pointed out a
rustic seat, under the trees, in front of which was a garden table. They sat
down together and Fandor drew from his pocket a sheet of white paper and his
fountain pen. Elizabeth's arm touched his shoulder. As though electrified by
this contact, the two young people trembled, their eyes met in a glance full of
troubled emotion--a feeling new to both--whose immense significance neither
understood. Fandor remained speechless, and Elizabeth blushed. They gazed at
each other, embarrassed, not knowing what to say for themselves; and their
embarrassment was only relieved by the appearance of the sister who attended to
the turning box at the entrance gate. She stood at the top of the steps leading
down to the park and called Elizabeth. "Mademoiselle! Mademoiselle! There is
someone on the telephone who wishes to speak to you!" Fandor rose. "Will you
allow me to accompany you, mademoiselle? I am very curious to know whether the
person now asking for you is identical with the person who asked for you a
little while ago?" The young couple hurried to the big parlour, and Elizabeth
went to the telephone. "Hullo?..." Elizabeth had handed one of the receivers to
Fandor. He heard a voice--an unknown voice, but beyond question masculine--who
said, over the wire:

"Hullo!... Is it really Mademoiselle Dollon to whom I have the honour of
speaking?" "Yes, monsieur. Who is speaking to me?" But just as Elizabeth was
about to repeat her question, Fandor thought he heard whoever had called up
Elizabeth, hang up the receivers. No reply reached them!... Elizabeth cried
impatiently:

"Hullo!... Hullo!... Who is speaking to me?" But there was no one at the end of
the line! Fandor swore softly to himself, then seizing the two receivers he
called:

"Hullo! Come, monsieur, reply!... Whom do you want? Who are you?" He could not
obtain any reply. Fandor rang up the central office. When the telephone girl
answered, he called:

"Mademoiselle, why have you cut me off?" "But I have done nothing of the kind,
monsieur!" "But I cannot get any reply!" "It is because the receivers have been
hung up by whoever called you. I assure you that is so." "What was my caller's
number?" "I cannot tell you that, monsieur--the rules forbid it." Fandor knew
this quite well, so he did not insist further. But, as he turned away from the
telephone, a dull anger smouldered within him. "Who was this mysterious
individual who had called Elizabeth twice over the telephone, and then, no
sooner put into communication with her, had refused to talk to her?" Fandor felt
nervous, anxious, exasperated by this incident; but it would never do to trouble
his young friend to no good purpose. He led her back to the garden. "Where were
we in our talk, monsieur?" asked Elizabeth. With a considerable effort, the
journalist collected his thoughts. "We were discussing the mysterious paper
found at your brother's, mademoiselle." In agreement with Elizabeth, Jerome
Fandor determined the approximate size of this list of addresses. He tore from
his note-book a sheet of white paper. Elizabeth looked fixedly at the white
sheet for a long time, as though, by concentrated will power, she could force
the mysterious names which she read some days before on the original paper, to
rise up in front of her eyes. Certainly it seemed to her that on this list
figured the name of her brother, that of the Baroness de Vibray, lawyer Gerin's
also: then she remembered a double name, a name not unknown to her, which had
appeared in the list. "Barbey-Nanteuil!" she suddenly cried. "Yes, I do believe
those two names were on it!" Fandor smiled. Encouraged by his smile and the
results of this semi-clairvoyant attempt, Elizabeth allowed her thoughts free
play. "I am sure of it: there was even a mistake in spelling: _Nanteuil_ was
spelled _Nauteuil_: the bankers were third or fourth on the list, and I am
certain now that the Baroness de Vibray's name headed the list.... There was
also a date, composed of two figures--a 1 ... then--wait a minute!... a figure
with a tail to it ... that is to say, it could only have been a 5, a 7, or a
9.... I cannot remember which. Then there were other names I had never heard
of." "Try, mademoiselle, to remember...."

There was a silence. Fandor was puzzling over the figures he had written down in
the order Elizabeth had mentioned them--fifteen--seventeen--nineteen--but what
could he deduce from them?... Ah!... The mysterious robbery of rue du Quatre
Septembre was committed on May 15th! There may be a clue there! The thread of
Fandor's reflections were abruptly broken by a cry from Elizabeth. "I have
recalled a name--something like ... Thomas!... Does that tell you anything?"
"Thomas?" repeated Jerome Fandor slowly.... "I don't see...."

But suddenly he saw light! He jumped up:

"Isn't it Thomery?" cried he, intensely excited. "Are you not confounding Thomas
with Thomery?" Elizabeth, taken aback, confused, tried hard to remember: she
threshed her memory with knitted brows. "It may be so," she declared. "I see
quite clearly the first letters of the word--Thom ... written in a large
hand,... then the rest is indistinct ... but I have the impression that the end
of the word is longer than the last syllable of Thomas." "Perhaps you are
right!" Fandor was no longer listening to her. He had left the rustic bench, and
without paying any attention to Elizabeth, he began walking up and down the
shady path, talking to himself in a low tone, as was his habit when he wished to
reduce his thoughts to order. "Thomas--that is Thomery; Jacques Dollon, the
Baroness de Vibray, Barbey-Nanteuil, lawyer Gerin--but they are all the victims
of the mysterious band that plots and plans in the shade!... It is
incomprehensible--but we shall find a way to get to the bottom of it all!"
Fandor returned to Elizabeth. "We shall get to the bottom of these mysteries,"
cried he, with so triumphant an air, his face shining with joy, that Elizabeth,
in spite of her torturing anxieties, could not help smiling. They were alone in
these green and flowery spaces. A great peace was all about them. The birds were
singing, the breeze lightly stirred the trees and bushes with caressing
breaths.... Fandor gazed tenderly at Elizabeth, very tenderly.... The young girl
smiled tremulously, as she met this glance of lover-like tenderness. "We shall
get to the bottom of it," repeated Fandor. "You will see, I promise you...."

Their glances mingled in a mute communion of thought and feeling....
Spontaneously, their hands met and clasped.... They were standing close
together, and theirs the consciousness of living through an unforgettable
moment: they felt most vividly alive together. How young they were! How
intoxicating, a moment!... The world of outside things ceased to exist for
them.... They were enwrapt in a glowing world of their own!... Fandor's hand
slid to Elizabeth's shoulder; he leaned towards the unresisting girl, and with
closed eyes, their lips met in a long kiss--a kiss all ecstasy.... It was a
moment's mutual madness!... The instant past, both knew it. Torn from this
momentary dream of bliss, they gazed at each other, embarrassed, greatly moved:
for that very reason they wished to part. Ah, this was not the moment to speak
of love, to dream of happiness and mutual joy! Dark, dreadful mysteries enclosed
them: it was a sinister net they struggled in: as yet they could see no clear
way out!... They had no right to be themselves until the mysteries were cleared
away.... They could not belong to each other now! *       *       *       *
*

Fandor, when taking leave of Elizabeth, expressed a wish that she should not
accompany him to the convent; and she, still shaken with emotion, had not
insisted on doing so. As he was on the point of stepping into the street, a
sister came up to him. "You are Monsieur Jerome Fandor?" "Yes, sister." "Our
Mother Superior wishes to speak to you." Our journalist bowed acquiescence. Some
minutes later, the Mother Superior joined him in the large parlour. "Monsieur,"
she began, "I must apologise for having sent for you, but I wished to have a
necessary talk with you." Fandor interrupted the saintly nun. "And I must
apologise, reverend Mother, for not having come to pay my respects to you before
leaving. Had I not been much troubled, I should never have dreamt of leaving
without thanking you for the help you have been good enough to give me." The nun
looked at him questioningly. Fandor continued:

"In agreeing to receive Mademoiselle Elizabeth Dollon as a boarder, you have
done a deed of true charity: this poor girl is so unhappy, so tried, so
unfortunate, that I really do not know where she could have found a better
refuge than in this convent under your sheltering care.... I ..."

But the nun would not allow Fandor to continue. "It is precisely about
Mademoiselle Dollon that I wish to speak to you.... Of course, I should be glad
to help and comfort one suffering from a real misfortune; but I must confess,
that when Mademoiselle Dollon presented herself here as a boarder, I was
ignorant of the exact nature of the scandal in which she is involved." Fandor
was taken aback at the harsh tone of the nun's speech. "Good Heavens, madame,
what do you mean to insinuate?" "I have just been informed, monsieur, of the
exact nature of the relations which existed between the criminal, Jacques
Dollon, and Madame de Vibray." Fandor stiffened with indignation. "It is false!"
he cried. "Utterly false! You have been misinformed!" He stopped short. The nun
signified by a movement of her hand that further protests were useless. "In any
case, whether false or not, it is quite certain that we cannot keep this girl
here any longer, for her name will, in the end, do harm to the respectability of
this house." Fandor was astounded at this extraordinary statement. "In other
words," said he, "you refuse to keep Mademoiselle here any longer as a boarder?"
"Yes, monsieur!" The journalist moved a step or two, then, with bent head,
seemed to be turning something over in his mind. "It comes to this, madame, you
are not giving me your true reasons for ..."

Again the nun interrupted the young man with a gesture. "True, monsieur, I
should have preferred not to mention my real and very definite reasons which
make it an imperative duty that I should request Mademoiselle Dollon to seek
another refuge. Nevertheless, since you insist, I will tell you that
Mademoiselle Dollon's attitude just now--her behaviour--is what we cannot
possibly allow...."

"Good Heavens! What do you wish to insinuate now, madame?" "You kissed her,
monsieur. I regret that you have forced me to go into details. I regret that you
have compelled me to put into words this--I will not allow you to turn this
religious house into a lover's meeting place! Am I clear?" Before Fandor had
time to protest, the nun gave him a curt bow, and prepared to leave him. The
young journalist recalled her. He was angry; all the more so, because he knew
that the Mother Superior had some justification for the attitude she had taken
up. Alas! All his protestations were vain! "Very well, madame," he said at last.
"You are utterly mistaken; but I recognise that your attitude has some colour of
justification, and I bow to your decision, based on misinformation and a mistake
though it be. Kindly allow me two days' grace, that I may find another refuge
for Mademoiselle Dollon!" With a movement of her head the nun signified her
assent; then, with a final bow, she left the parlour. Crestfallen, but full of
angry resolve, Jerome Fandor turned his back on the convent. XV

VAGUE SUSPICIONS

Fandor was talking to himself--an inveterate habit of his--as he sat in the cab
which was carrying him to the Palais de Justice. "Beyond question, I ought to
have examined that paper they have stolen from Mademoiselle Elizabeth. I should
have looked through it at the first opportunity. That sequence of names; those
dates, which seem to almost coincide with the different criminal attempts,
probably relate to the mysterious plan which the assassins are carrying out
systematically.... But, that means there are to be more victims, and we shall
witness fresh tragedies!... I am not at all easy about Elizabeth either!... Who
the deuce could have telephoned to her at the convent?... Perhaps what I am
going to do is stupid, but no chance must be neglected.... I wonder if I shall
learn anything worth knowing at the court to-day?... "When they arrested these
smugglers, five months ago, I recollect perfectly that Monsieur Thomery's name
was mentioned in connection with the business.... If I only held the connecting
link of interest in my hands, which would make it clear why all these people--
Jacques Dollon, the Baroness de Vibray, Princess Sonia Danidoff, Barbey-
Nanteuil, and even Elizabeth Dollon--have been the victims of the horrible band
I am pursuing.... The motive? Evidently robbery! But there must be some other
reason, for--and it is a significant fact--all these people know one another,
meet one another, or at least are either clients of the Barbey-Nanteuil bank, or
are friends of Monsieur Thomery.... It's the devil's own mystery!" *       *
*       *       *

Jerome Fandor had arrived at the Palais de Justice. He crossed the great hall
des Pas-Perdus and entered the Assize Court. *       *       *       *       *

The trial of the Cooper and his accomplices was a small affair, and had not
attracted many listeners, for these smuggling and coining cases were apt to be
dull. As a matter of fact, there would not have been a soul present, if the
accused had not had the most popular of counsels to defend them--Maitre Henri
Robart! Fandor joined a group who were on familiar terms evidently, and,
although he had not seen her for many a day, he at once recognised Mother
Toulouche by her remarkable appearance and grotesque get up. He had had so many
other irons in the fire, that he had not followed this smuggling case at all
closely: he was surprised, therefore, to see Mother Toulouche in the little
passage adjoining the court, for he had the impression that the old receiver of
stolen goods had been under lock and key for some weeks.... She was now being
interviewed by one of his colleagues. Fandor went up to them. Though she had not
been accused of anything so far, the old storekeeper was vehemently protesting
her innocence. "Yes," she declared to her interviewer, "it is abominable, when
such things are discovered all of a sudden!" Mother Toulouche went on to explain
that on Clock Quay she rented a small shop for the sale of curiosities: that she
was an honest woman, who had never wronged a soul by as much as a farthing: all
she asked was to be left in peace to earn a decent living, so that she could
retire from business some day or other.... Everyone had a right to ask as much
as that!... Her store consisted of two rooms and an underground cellar, in which
she had put a quantity of old odds and ends, when she had moved to her present
abode.... She never descended to this cellar, never at all: she was far too much
afraid of rats to venture down there! Not she! But, one day, if you please, when
she was quietly engaged in mending some old clothes, the police had suddenly
burst into her store!... And they had accused her of receiving smuggled goods
and false money, and she didn't know what more besides!... The police, not
content with this, had made her go down to the cellar to find out whether or no
there were such things in the second cellar belonging to her store!... Who had
been most surprised then? Why who but Mother Toulouche, who, until that very
minute, had not known that this second cellar existed! How then was she to know
that it communicated with the sewer, still less that the sewer opened on to the
Seine, and that by the Seine arrived bales of smuggled goods, which were
concealed in her cellar by the smugglers?... Fortunately, the judges had
understood this, and after twenty-four hours' detention on suspicion, Mother
Toulouche had been set at liberty! At first, she had declared that she did not
know the accused persons summoned to appear that day, the Cooper in particular;
to tell the truth, she had made a mistake; she did know them, through having met
them a long time ago, when she lived near la Capelle; so long ago was it that
she had forgotten all about it! Anyhow, she wanted to have done with the
business! From the very beginning of the trial, Mother Toulouche had been
disagreeably struck by the inquisitorial glances and pointed questions of the
Public Prosecutor throughout the proceedings. Now, in her turn, the old
storekeeper was questioning her audience, trying hard to find out what would be
the probable attitude of the magistrate, when she herself should be summoned to
the witness-box. "Witness!... Mother Toulouche!" Fandor smiled as he listened to
the loquacious old storekeeper, for he knew how much faith was to be put in her
veracity and respectability!... It was pretty clear that she was every whit as
guilty as the handcuffed individuals now in the dock. As she had not been
arrested, it simply meant that, in Juve's opinion, this was not an opportune
moment to put a stopper on the nefarious activities of this bad old woman. At
this precise moment, Fandor recognised Juve. He was leaving a group of
barristers and officials, who had been hugely entertained by his stupid answers
and remarks. Yes, it was Juve, so admirably made up and disguised that Fandor
had difficulty in recognising him. Here was Cranajour on the scene! He
approached Mother Toulouche and stood there--a Cranajour who was the picture of
gaping imbecility! "You, too?" cried Mother Toulouche, looking askance at him.
"Are you one of the witnesses?" Cranajour's reply was a comical grimace. He
scratched his beard, remarking finally:

"I have forgotten! I don't know!" His audience burst into roars of laughter:
Fandor laughed loudest of all! One of Maitre Henri Robart's juniors whispered in
Fandor's ear, with an air of giving the journalist a piece of information worth
having. "A simple-minded soul, that!--a kind of idiot! You can guess that, at
the preliminary inquiry, they soon found that out!... He may be heard--or he may
not?" Fandor nodded. He found it difficult not to laugh. "Thanks many for the
information," he stammered. The young barrister did not understand the ironical
tone of our journalist. Mother Toulouche was envying Cranajour. "You're in luck,
you are--to be too silly to go and talk to those inquisitive fellows in there!
Eh?" Conversations stopped. The little low door, giving entrance to the court,
had just opened: an usher announced:

"The case is resumed!... Witnesses this way!... The woman Toulouche?... It is
your turn!..." They jostled and pushed their way through the narrow entrance in
order to get into the court room quickly. Fandor, however, instead of following
the crowd, had grasped the simple Cranajour by the shoulder, and shouted loud
enough to be heard by those who might have been surprised at his action. "You
duffer of a Cranajour! Go along with you! You're the man for my money, old
fellow! Here's something for a glass--but come with me for five minutes: I want
to interview you and make a jolly good article out of it!" Fandor went off,
followed by the detective. When they were quite away from everyone, Fandor
turned quickly to his friend. "Well, Juve?" "Nothing, so far...."

"You have not run in the whole gang?" "Not I!" replied Juve. "These are only the
supernumeraries, and there are some of them out of my reach!... Look here,
Fandor," continued Juve in a low tone. "You will see someone in court presently
whose presence will astonish you--it is an aviator--the aviator Emilet.... Well,
my boy, I have a notion that this fellow is no stranger to all these goings-
on!... But patience!... besides, you know, Fandor, it's not my way of doing
things to put the bracelets on mediocrities such as he: I fly higher!... Good-
bye. Shall see you later on!" Fandor asked, in a low tone:

"Shall I remain for the sitting?" "Yes," said Juve. "It is quite likely that I
shall not be present; and it would be a good thing if you were to get a general
idea of this affair: you may pick up some useful information." "Juve, I very
much wish to have a longer talk with you--there are things I want to say--to
tell you!" Steps could be heard coming in their direction: the two men separated
at once; but Juve had just time to say:

"This evening then, at eight, I shall come to your place, Fandor. Expect me!"
Half an hour later, Fandor entered the court room.... The speech for the Crown
had just been concluded. The arrest of these smugglers, now on their trial, had
made some stir, about five months ago. Public opinion had been aroused almost to
fever pitch, when it became known that the accused had, for nearly two years
past, succeeded in getting through into Paris, without having paid town dues,
quantities of the most highly taxed articles, and thus had accumulated a large
store of riches in contraband goods and money. They owed their arrest to the
betrayal of a wretched dealer, who was dissatisfied with his remuneration. The
journalists had, after their manner, amplified all the details, had exaggerated
the realities, and had given a romantic colouring to the various incidents in
the varied lives and adventures of this daring band of smugglers. They had been
represented as perfect gentlemen, who had formed themselves into a marvellously
organised Black Band, led by a chief having right of life or death over them: a
band fertile in tricks and extraordinary stratagems, who massed their plunder in
immense vaults and cellars under the very heart of Paris, in the Isle of the
Cite, and communicating with the river, which, under the eyes of the police,
served to bear the barges laden with their booty. Cellars and vaults in the Isle
of the Cite! "Well," thought Fandor, "men organised into such a powerful
association in this part of Paris might well put one on the track of strange
discoveries regarding the mysterious events connected with the Jacques Dollon
affair!" Then, having spoken to his colleagues on the press, Fandor turned in
the direction of the jury and set himself to follow attentively Maitre Henri
Robart's speech for the defence. XVI

DISCUSSIONS

The portress rang up Fandor on the telephone. "Monsieur Fandor! There is a stout
little lady down here! She wants to see you! Should I let her go up?" Fandor's
first impulse was to say "no." He glanced at the timepiece: it was exactly two
minutes past eight and Juve might be here at any minute. He was sure to keep his
appointment. After an instant's hesitation, Fandor decided on a "yes." He called
down to the portress:

"Let her come up!" Fandor had an idea: perhaps this person knew something about
the appointment made that afternoon at the Palais de Justice! It would be well
to find out the why and wherefore of this call. In any case, it was best for a
journalist to see all comers, if possible. There was a discreet ring, announcing
that the stout little lady had already mounted the five flights of stairs and
was now on Fandor's landing. Our journalist went to open the door, standing well
back in the shadow, so that his visitor might show herself first, as she passed
into the little hall. Yes, she was certainly stout, short, and also elderly. She
wore a bonnet with strings, perched on a thick crop of grey curls, yellowish at
the tips. This elderly dame wore glasses; she was wrapped in a large brown
shawl, and she supported herself, as she walked, with a crook-handled stick.
Whilst the puzzled Fandor closed his front door, the visitor made straight for
the little sitting-room, where our journalist usually sat, surrounded by his
books and papers. "Ah, she seems to know my flat!" thought Fandor. The next
moment he jumped back; for, no sooner had the visitor got well into the room,
than she straightened her bent back, threw off her shawl, and dropped her stick!
Then, tearing off her grey curls and her spectacles, the visitor revealed
herself as--Juve! Fandor burst out laughing. "Juve! Well, I never!" "It's Juve,
all right, my boy!" cried the smiling detective, as he rid himself of the
feminine get-up which impeded his movements. "I was pleased to see, my lad, that
you did not suspect my identity until I had thrown off this second-hand wardrobe
I bulked myself out with!" "Oh!" cried Fandor, "that's only because I hardly
looked at you. If I had, Juve, you may be sure I should have recognised you!"
"Possibly! But what do you think of the disguise?" "Not so bad, Juve; but why
did you change your sex this evening?" "Oh, for the fun of it, and to keep my
hand in ... besides, the more precautions we take when we meet, the better.
Admit for a moment that our enemies are keeping a watch on you here: what will
they recollect about your doings this evening? Why, that Fandor, the journalist,
had a call from a lady, and that she did not leave in a hurry either!" "Hang it
all! I've no objection to a Don Juan reputation, but I may say, without offence,
that, as a woman, there's nothing particularly attractive about you, Juve, in
the garb you've just discarded!" "Bah!" replied Juve. "You mustn't be so
particular, my dear boy--as if dress mattered--or appearance either!" Juve was
lighting a cigarette as he walked about the room, examining the books and other
objects with which Fandor had surrounded himself. "A charming home!" murmured
the detective....

Then, he inspected the contents of a little show-case, in which Fandor had
collected what he called his "Circumstantial Evidence"; in other words, various
objects relating to cases he had been engaged on, such as scraps of clothing,
blood-stained weapons, broken locks: these records of crimes, new and old, were
carefully labelled. Juve began questioning Fandor about these sinister relics.
Five minutes of jokes and laughter, then Fandor became serious. He drew his
friend to a corner settee. "Juve," said he, in an impressive tone, "I have found
the connecting link!" "By Jove! You have, have you!" cried Juve in a bantering
tone, and with a quizzical look. "Let us see it!... Explain!..." Regardless of
his friend's scepticism, Fandor proceeded to expound his theory. "I did as you
suggested. I was present at the trial of the smugglers: I listened to Counsel's
speech for the defence, but judged it useless to stay to the end. When Maitre
Henri Robart began a disquisition on the facts, I left. Here is what I have
noted:

"Someone owns a house in the Isle of the Cite; a house which is a meeting place
for receivers of stolen goods, ruffians, robbers, and vagabonds: a house
possessing underground cellars of no ordinary kind. Now, this Someone never
mentions this strange house of his, though he must be aware of its existence;
then this Someone knows intimately several, at least, of the people more or less
involved in the Jacques Dollon affair, and--one may boldly assert it--the Dollon
plot was hatched in a cellar, in a sewer of the Cite. "One of two things!...
"Either this personage is timorous, is afraid of being compromised, and does not
consider in what an awkward position this coincidence places him--if that be so,
he is a singularly thick-headed individual--or--well--Monsieur Thomery ... you
are the most rascally scoundrel it has been my lot to admire, up to now! But I
assure you, we know how to get even with you! From the moment we have
established, in the first place, a connection between all these affairs--that
they indubitably hang together; secondly, that you, Monsieur Thomery, are the
connecting link...."

"No," interrupted Juve, sharply....

"What is that you say?..." "I say--_no_." "What?" cried Fandor, taken aback. He
stared at Juve, who continued to smoke his cigarette, unmoved. But Fandor was
obstinately set on stating his point of view. "The primary cause of the Dollon
affair seems to be the suicide of the Baroness de Vibray, a suicide probably
owing to a love disappointment--the old lady had been forsaken by her lover--
Monsieur Thomery!..." "No." Juve's denial slightly annoyed Fandor, but did not
stop him. "I ask: was the man who robbed Sonia Danidoff one of the guests? It is
very unlikely; for, not only were the clothes of all those present searched, but
all Thomery's guests were known, well known!..." "No!" Fandor bit his lip. "It's
true, Juve! You were there yourself, and no one penetrated your disguise, and
discovered who you really were! My last argument is, therefore, worthless ...
but I fancy your attitude, your way of receiving my deductions, hides something.
Have you got new information! Fresh facts to go on? You know who stole the
jewels?" "No." "Good Heavens! How aggravating you are, Juve!... But this time
you will simply have to agree with me! Listen!... When we first met, after our
long separation, you admitted that one thing bothered you--the ease with which
your nefarious band of villains of the Isle of the Cite were able to get rid of
considerable sums of false money; and you were trying to find their market--by
what means these wretches were able to rid themselves of the coin; when,
apparently, they were not acquainted with any influential people in the business
world, or in the circles of high finance.... Well, I have discovered their
channel of distribution--it is none other than the proprietor of this house
properly, the ground floor and basement of which are occupied by Mother
Toulouche--obviously, it is Thomery!..." "No!" Fandor lifted hands to heaven in
despairing fashion and sat silent. He was deeply mortified. There was a long
pause, during which Juve calmly smoked on. At last, Fandor asked in a hopeless
sort of tone:

"Well?... What do you think?" Slowly, as if awakening from a dream, Juve began
to speak. "We know nothing for certain so far, my lad, except that the Baroness
de Vibray has committed suicide; that Princess Sonia Danidoff has recovered from
the shock of her jewel robbery, and is to marry Thomery next month ... there is
nothing extraordinary in that ... just as there is, perhaps, nothing surprising
or extraordinary in the series of robberies, nor even in the crimes occupying
our attention at the present moment!" Fandor jumped up. "Nothing!" he shouted.
"You are joking, Juve! It is absurd what you say! Do just think a minute, my
dear fellow! Why, all these affairs are closely connected, from the Jacques
Dollon affair, up to ... up to ..."

Fandor stopped short. Juve, who had been listening to him with seeming
inattention, now appeared wholly anxious to hear the end of the sentence: he
stared hard at Fandor. "Go on! Go on! I want to make you say it!..." And Fandor,
as though in spite of himself, finished with:

"Up to Fantomas!" "Yes, at last we have got it!" cried Juve. The two men gazed
at each other; once more the logic of deductions, the chain of circumstances had
inevitably led him to pronounce the name of the formidable bandit, of whom they
could not think without a shudder; whose memory they could not evoke without
immediately feeling themselves surrounded by sinister gloom, lost in a thick fog
of mystery, of what was strange, hidden, occult! Fandor's countenance cleared
suddenly as he gave utterance to the idea which had just crossed his mind.
"Juve, do you not think that this mysterious prison warder, called Nibet, might
very well be an incarnation of Fantomas, because in so many circumstances ..."

Juve interrupted Fandor with a gesture of denial. "No, old fellow," said he
gravely. "Don't start on that trail, it is assuredly a bad one: Nibet is not
Fantomas. Nibet does not count for much, one might say, for nothing at all; he
can scarcely be called a tiny wheel even in the great machine driven on its
diabolical course by our fiendish enemy ... we must look higher than that!"
"Thomery?" insisted Fandor, who still held to his idea, and was determined to
turn Juve to his way of thinking.... But Juve still said "no!" to that. "Let us
drop Thomery, my lad! As to Fantomas, how do you think we can identify him in
this haphazard fashion, basing our idea on pure supposition? ... For, who is
Fantomas--the real Fantomas, among so many probable Fantomas? "Can you tell me
that, Fandor?" continued Juve, who was getting excited at last.... "I grant you
that we have seen, in the course of our chequered existence, an old gentleman,
like Etienne Rambert, a thickset Englishman like Gurn, a robust fellow like
Loupart, a weak and sickly individual like Chaleck. We have identified each one
of them, in turn, as Fantomas--and that is all. "As for seeing Fantomas himself,
just as he is, without artificial aid, without paint and powder, without a false
beard, without a wig, Fantomas as his face really is under his hooded mask of
black--that we have not yet done. It is that fact which makes our hunt for the
villain ceaselessly difficult, often dangerous!... Fantomas is always someone,
sometimes two persons, never himself!" Juve, once started on this subject, could
go on for ever, and Fandor did not try to stop him: when the course of
conversation led them to talk of Fantomas the two men were as though hypnotised
by this mysterious creature, so well named, for he was really "Fantomatic," a
spectral entity: the two friends could not turn their minds to any other
subject. They discussed Fantomas up and down, in and out, and round about!... *
*       *       *       *

It was getting on towards one o'clock when Fandor saw Juve off as far as the
staircase. The detective had resumed his disguise, but neither man was in a
joking mood now. Fandor had given Juve an account of the annoying, yet rather
absurd incident at the convent, when he and Elizabeth were unsuspectingly
bidding each other a passionate farewell under the watchful and scandalised eye
of a nun! Fandor had thought it better to take Juve into his confidence on the
point, though it went against the grain, for he was bashful with regard to his
feelings. Juve had openly laughed at first, but when he understood that
Elizabeth, requested to leave the convent, would again be without a safe
shelter, he became serious, reflected for a minute or two, then gave his dear
lad a piece of advice, advice which Fandor had seemingly taken objection to, and
had finished by agreeing to.... They parted with these words:

"The more you think it over, dear lad, the better you will like my idea," said
Juve. Fandor had not said "No" to it! XVII

AN ARREST

The day after his memorable talk with Juve, Fandor was summoned to appear before
the police magistrate, because he could give evidence regarding the rue Raffet
affair, and had saved Elizabeth Dollon's life. It was about four in the
afternoon, and he had just entered the passage leading to the offices so
familiar to him, when he met Elizabeth. Behind her came several persons whom he
recognised: among them were the Barbey-Nanteuil partners, Madame Bourrat, and
the servant, Jules. They were together and were talking. The moment she saw him,
Elizabeth went up to him. "Ah, monsieur!" she cried, with a reproachful look.
"We had given up all hope of seeing you.... Just imagine, the magistrate has
finished his enquiry already! Twice he asked if you had come!" Fandor seemed
surprised. "The summons was for four this afternoon, was it not?" he asked,
taking from his pocket the summoning letter. A glance showed that he was not
mistaken: he gave Elizabeth the letter to read. She smiled. "You were summoned
for four o'clock, I see; but we had to appear earlier: I was examined as soon as
I arrived, and I was summoned to appear at half-past two." Fandor was annoyed
with himself: he might have guessed it! He was vexed because he had not been on
the watch in the passage whilst this examination was proceeding. He was moving
towards Monsieur Fuselier's room, the magistrate in charge of the Auteuil
affair, and he must have looked his vexation, for Elizabeth said:

"I am a little to blame, perhaps, that you had not due notice, but what could I
do! Yesterday evening when you telephoned to the convent to ask for news of me,
I was just going to tell you at what time I was summoned, but when I went to the
telephone...."

"What's this you are telling me?" asked Fandor, staring hard at Elizabeth. "I
never telephoned to you yesterday evening. Who told you I had been asking for
you on the telephone?" "Nobody said so; but I supposed it was you! Who else
would be so kindly interested in my doings?" Fandor made no reply to this. Here
was the telephone mystery again--an alarming mystery. Elizabeth had not given
her address to anyone: Fandor had been careful not to give it to a soul....
Clearly, this poor girl, even in the heart of this peaceful convent, was not
secure from some unknown, outside interference; and Fandor, optimist though he
was, could not help shuddering at the thought of these mysterious adversaries,
implacable and formidable, who might work harm to this unfortunate girl, whose
devoted protector he now was.... Besides ... did he not feel for Jacques
Dollon's pretty sister something sweeter and more tender than pure sympathy?...
Whenever he was near her, did he not experience a thrill of emotion? Fandor did
not analyse his feelings, but they influenced him unconsciously. He turned to
Elizabeth. "Since you cannot remain any longer at the convent, where do you
think of staying?" "Well, monsieur, I shall go back to the convent this evening,
though it is painful to me--very, very painful--to be obliged to accept their
icy hospitality ... as for to-morrow!" Fandor was about to make a suggestion,
when the door of Monsieur Fuselier's room opened half-way. The magistrate's
clerk appeared, and, glancing round the passage over his spectacles, called, in
a dull tone:

"Monsieur Jerome Fandor!" "Here!" replied our journalist. "I am coming!" Then,
taking a hasty farewell of Elizabeth as he went towards the magistrate's room,
he whispered:

"Wait for me, mademoiselle; and, for the love of Heaven, remember this--whatever
I may say, whatever happens, whether we are alone, together, or in the presence
of others, whether it be in a few minutes, or later on, do not be astonished at
what may befall you, even though it be my fault--be absolutely convinced of this
--whatever I may do will be for your good--more than that I must not say!"
Elizabeth had not a word to say, but his words were humming and buzzing in her
ears when Fandor was in the magistrate's room. With a cordial handshake,
Monsieur Fuselier began by congratulating him on having saved Elizabeth Dollon's
life. "Ah," said he, smiling, "you journalists have all the luck; and, between
yourselves, I envy you a little, for your lucky star has led you to the
discovery of a drama, and has enabled you to prevent a fatal ending to it. Now,
do you not think, as I do, that this Auteuil affair is not a case of suicide,
but of attempted assassination?" "There is no doubt about it," replied Fandor
quietly. The magistrate drew himself up with a satisfied air. "That is also my
opinion--has been so from the start." The clerk now interrupted the two men, who
were talking as friends rather than as magistrate and witness, asking, in nasal
tone:

"Does His Honour wish to take the evidence of Monsieur Jerome Fandor?" "In four
lines then. I do not think Monsieur Fandor has anything more to tell us than
what he has already told us in the columns of _La Capitale_. That is so, is it
not?" asked the magistrate, looking at Fandor. "That is correct," replied our
journalist. The clerk rapidly drew up the deposition of Monsieur Jerome Fandor,
in due form, and read it aloud in a monotonous voice. Fandor signed it. It did
not compromise him at all. He was about to leave when Monsieur Fuselier caught
him by the arm. "Please wait a minute! There are one or two points to be cleared
up: I am going to ask the witnesses a few questions: we will have a general
confrontation--we will compare evidence!" Then, the journalist's friend, now all
the magistrate, asked the assembled witnesses certain questions, in an emphatic
and professional tone. Fandor, seated a little apart, had leisure to examine the
faces of the different persons whom circumstances had brought together in this
room. His first look was for Elizabeth: energy and courage were plainly marked
on her pretty, sad face. Then there was the proprietor of the Auteuil boarding-
house: an honest, vulgar creature, red-faced, perpetually mopping her brow and
raising her hands to heaven; ready to bewail her position, deploring the
untimely publicity given to this affair, a publicity which threatened discredit
to her boarding-house. As he was seated directly behind the manservant, Jules,
Fandor had a view of his broad back, surmounted by a big bullet head and ruffled
hair. This witness spoke with a strong Picardy accent, and there was nothing
remarkable about his answers: he seemed the conventional second-rate type of
servant. He did not seem to have understood much of what occurred on the famous
day: when questioned as to the order of events, his answers were vague,
uncertain. Then, seated beside Fandor were the bankers: Barbey, a grave-looking
man, no longer young, judging by his beard, which was going grey; he was
decorated with the Legion of Honour: the other, Nanteuil, looked about thirty,
elegant, distinguished, lively. These two were well known in the highest
Parisian society as representing finance of the best kind. They were highly
thought of. The magistrate asked the bankers a question. "Why," asked he, "did
Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil call on Mademoiselle Dollon? Was it to bring her some
help, as has been stated?" Elizabeth blushed with humiliation at the
magistrate's question. Monsieur Nanteuil answered:

"There is a slight distinction to be made, your Honour, and Mademoiselle Dollon
certainly will not object to our mentioning it. It never entered our minds to
offer Mademoiselle Dollon charity--charity she never asked of us, be it clearly
understood. Mademoiselle Dollon, with whom we had previously been acquainted,
whose misfortunes have inspired us with deep sympathy, wrote to ask us if we
could find her some employment. Hoping to find some post for her, we came to see
her, to talk with her, to find out what her capabilities were. That is all. We
were very glad it so happened, that we were able to aid Monsieur Fandor in
restoring her to life." "Can you tell me, Monsieur Fandor, did you notice
anything suspicious in Mademoiselle Dollon's room when you entered it? You
wrote, in your article, that at first you had thought it simply an attempted
burglary, followed by an attempted murder?" "That is so," replied Fandor.
"Directly the window was opened, I leaned out: I wanted to see if there was
anything suspicious on the wall of the house. I also looked behind the
shutters." "Why?" asked the examining magistrate. "Because I had not forgotten
the close of the Thomery drama--the same Monsieur Thomery mentioned in the
Assize Court yesterday--oh, in all honour, of course; but you have not forgotten
--although that examination was not in your hands, and I regret it, because I am
of the opinion that there are points of connection interlinking all these
mysterious affairs--you have not forgotten, I am sure, that when the
investigations were over and Monsieur Thomery's guests had been allowed to leave
the house, that a thread of flax was discovered hanging to the window fastening
of the room in which Princess Danidoff had been found unconscious. This flax
thread was very strong, and was broken at the end: it is easy to conclude that
the stolen pearls had been temporarily fastened to it. This led me to think that
the aggressor, or aggressors, had remained in the reception rooms during the
whole course of the investigations, since it is proved that no one left the
house....

"... But, after all, we are not here to investigate the Thomery affair.... I
wished to explain why I had examined the window and shutters Of Mademoiselle
Dollon's room: I wanted to ascertain whether the procedure of the would-be
murderer of Mademoiselle Dollon was similar to that of the robber in the
Danidoff-Thomery case." "And what conclusion did you come to?" asked the
magistrate. "Window and shutters bore no traces that I could see," said Fandor.
"I could not come to any conclusion." Here Monsieur Barbey intervened. "If I may
be allowed to say so"--he glanced at the magistrate for the required permission,
which was given with a smile and gesture of assent--"I quite agree with Monsieur
Jerome Fandor. I also am convinced that, even if there is not a close connection
between the Thomery affair and the Auteuil affair, at least there exists such a
connection between the Auteuil affair and the terrible drama of rue Norvins." "I
would go even further than that," declared Monsieur Nanteuil. "The robbery of
rue du Quatre Septembre, of which we are the victims, is also connected with
this same series of mysterious cases." The magistrate asked a question. "It is a
matter of twenty millions, is it not? It must have been a terrible blow to you?"
"Fearful, monsieur," replied Monsieur Nanteuil. "Our credit was shaken: it
affected a considerable number of our clients, Monsieur Thomery among them, and
we consider him one of our most important clients. You are aware, of course,
that in financial matters confidence is almost everything!... Our losses have
just been covered by an insurance, but we have suffered other than direct
material losses. Still"--the banker turned towards Elizabeth, who was wiping
tears from her eyes--"still, what are our troubles compared with those which
have struck Mademoiselle Dollon blow upon blow? Assassination of the Baroness de
Vibray, mysterious death----"

"The Baroness de Vibray was not assassinated, she committed suicide,"
interrupted Fandor sharply. "Most certainly, I do not wish to make you
responsible for that, gentlemen; but when you wrote, announcing her ruin, you
dealt her a very hard blow!" "Could we have done otherwise?" replied Monsieur
Barbey, with his customary gravity of manner and tone. "In our matter of fact
business, where all must be clear and definite, we do not mince our words: we
are bound to state things as they actually are. What is more, we do not share
your point of view, and are convinced that the Baroness de Vibray was certainly
murdered." Monsieur Fuselier now expressed his opinion, or at least, what he
wished to be considered as his opinion:

"Gentlemen, consider yourselves for the moment as not in the presence of the
examining magistrate, but as being in the drawing-room of Monsieur Fuselier. In
my private capacity, I will give you my opinion regarding the rue Norvins
affair. I am decidedly less and less in agreement with Monsieur Fandor, though I
recognise with pleasure his fine detective gifts." "Thanks," interrupted Fandor
ironically. "That is a poor compliment!" Smiling, the magistrate continued:

"I am of the same opinion as Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil: I believe Madame de
Vibray was murdered." Fandor could not control his impatience. "Be logical,
messieurs, I beg of you!" he cried. "The Baroness de Vibray committed suicide.
Her letter states her intention. The authenticity of this letter has not been
disputed. The disastrous revelations, contained in Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil's
communication, proved too severe a shock for the poor lady's unbalanced brain:
the news of her ruin, abruptly conveyed, drove her to desperation. The death of
the Baroness de Vibray was voluntary and self-inflicted." There was a dead
silence. Then Monsieur Barbey asked a question. "Well, then, Monsieur Fandor,
will you explain to us how it happened that the Baroness de Vibray was found
dead in the studio of the painter, Jacques Dollon?" Fandor seemed to expect this
question from the banker. "There are two hypotheses," he declared. "The first,
and, in my humble opinion, the more improbable, is this: Madame de Vibray at the
same time that she decided to put an end to her life, wished to pay her protege
a last visit; all the more so, because he had asked her to come and see his work
before it was sent in to the Salon. Perhaps the Baroness intended to perform an
act of charity, in this instance, before her supreme hour struck. Perhaps she
miscalculated the effect of the poison she had taken, and so died in the house
of the friend she had come to see and help: her death there could not have been
her choice, for she must have known what serious trouble it would involve the
artist in, were her dead body found in his studio. "Here is the second
hypothesis, which seems the more plausible. The Baroness de Vibray learns that
she is ruined, she decides to die, and by chance or coincidence, which remains
to be explained, for I have not the key to it yet, some third parties interested
in her fate, learn her decision. They let her write to her lawyer; they do not
prevent her poisoning herself; but, as soon as she is dead, they straightway
take possession of her dead body and hasten to carry it to Jacques Dollon's
studio. To the painter himself they administered either with his consent or by
force--probably by force--a powerful narcotic, so that when the police are
called in next day they not only find the Baroness lying dead in the studio, but
they also find the painter unconscious, close by his visitor. When Jacques
Dollon is restored to consciousness, he is quite unable to give any sort of
explanation of the tragedy; naturally enough, the police look upon him as the
murderer of her who was well known to have been his patroness.... How does that
strike you?" It was now Monsieur Fuselier's turn to hold forth. "You forget a
detail which has its importance! I do not pretend to judge as to whether she was
poisoned by her own free act or not; but, in any case, we have this proof--an
uncorked phial of cyanide of potassium was found in Jacques Dollon's studio. It
seemed to have been recently opened; but, when the painter was questioned about
it, he declared that he had not made use of this ingredient for a very long
time." Fandor replied:

"I can turn your argument against you, monsieur. If the Baroness de Vibray had
been poisoned, voluntarily or not, with the cyanide of potassium in Dollon's
studio, he would have taken the precaution to banish all traces of the poison in
question. It would have been his first care! When questioned by the police
inspector, he would not have declared that he had not made use of this poison
for a very long time! the contradiction involved is proof that Dollon was
sincere; therefore, we are faced by a fact which, if not inexplicable, is, at
least, unexplained." Monsieur Barbey now had something to say:

"You criticise and hair-split in a remarkable fashion, monsieur, and are an
adept in the science of induction; but, let me say without offence meant, that
you give me the impression of being rather a romancing journalist than a
judicial investigator!... Admitting that the Baroness de Vibray was carried to
the painter Dollon's studio after her death, and that seems to be your opinion,
what advantage would it be to the criminals to act in such a fashion?" Jerome
Fandor had risen, his eyes shining, his body vibrating with excitement. "I
expected your question, monsieur," he cried; "and the answer is simple. The
mysterious criminals seized the Baroness de Vibray's body and brought it to
Dollon's studio to create an alibi, and to cast suspicion on an innocent man. As
you know, the stratagem was successful: two hours after the discovery of the
crime, the police arrested Mademoiselle Dollon's unfortunate brother!" With a
dramatic gesture Fandor pointed to Elizabeth, who, no longer able to contain her
grief, was weeping bitterly. The audience had risen, moved, troubled,
subjugated, in spite of themselves, by the journalist's eloquent and persuasive
tones. Even Monsieur Fuselier had quitted his classic green leather arm-chair
and had approached the two bankers: Madame Bourrat was behind them, and the
servant, Jules, with his smooth face and staring eyes. Fandor continued:

"This is not all, messieurs!... There is still something that must be said, and
I beg of you to listen with all your attention, for what the result of my
declarations will be, I do not know! It is no longer my reason that speaks,
instinct dictates my words! Listen!..." It was a poignant moment! All the
witnesses, the magistrate included, were thrilled with the certainty that the
journalist was about to make a sensational revelation. Taking his time, Jerome
Fandor walked slowly, quietly up to Elizabeth who, distraught with grief, was in
floods of tears. "Mademoiselle," he said, in a clear level voice, which was in
strange contrast with his recent persuasive and authoritative tones.
"Mademoiselle, you must tell us everything!... You are here, not in the presence
of a judge, and of enemies, but amidst friends who wish you nothing but good....
I understand your affectionate feelings, I know what an unreasoning, but quite
natural, attachment you have for your unfortunate brother--but, mademoiselle, it
is now imperatively necessary that you should do violence to yourself--you must
tell us the truth, the whole truth!" Interrupting his appeal to Elizabeth,
Fandor turned to the magistrate with a smile so enigmatic that his audience
could not tell whether he was speaking sincerely or was acting a part. "I have
contended in my articles up to now that Jacques Dollon was dead, dead beyond
recall; but when confronted with recent facts my theory seems to fall to the
ground." Fandor turned once more to Elizabeth, resuming his authoritative tone
and manner: "Since the affair of the Depot, the legal authorities have
recognised indelible traces of Jacques Dollon's hand in the series of crimes
which have been recently perpetrated. Up to the present, I have determinedly
denied such a possibility. But, mademoiselle, I put it to you: you have
forgotten to tell us something of the very utmost importance, something quite
out of the range of ordinary happenings, something phenomenal. Now here is the
staggering fact I am faced with! The other day, between two and three in the
afternoon, at the Auteuil boarding-house where you are staying, you received a
visit from your brother, Jacques Dollon, the supposed robber of the Princess
Sonia Danidoff's pearls, the suspected author of the robbery of rue du Quatre
Septembre; and, lastly, the fratricide, for what other explanation of the attack
on you can be given--an attempted murder beyond question--and I add ..." Fandor
could not continue. His eyes were fixed on those of Elizabeth who, at the first
words addressed to her by the journalist, had started up, trembling from head to
foot.... Their glances met, challenging, each seeking to quell, to subjugate the
other.... It seemed to the onlookers that they were witnessing an intense
struggle between two very strong natures separated by a deep, a fathomless gulf;
that a veil, dark as night, hanging between them had been rent asunder, giving
passage to an illuminating flash; that this luminous ray carried with it all the
revelations and the key to the fantastic mystery! But to a calm, perspicacious
observer of the two beings standing face to face, it would have been clear that
Jerome Fandor's real attitude was both suppliant and persuasive, and that
Elizabeth Dollon's was one of overwhelming surprise. Monsieur Fuselier, carried
away by the journalist's startling and extraordinary statements, did not
perceive this. Suddenly, he saw in Jerome Fandor the denunciator, and in
Elizabeth Dollon, the accomplice unmasked. Nevertheless, he said quietly:

"Monsieur Fandor, you have just uttered words of such gravity that you are bound
to confirm them by indisputable evidence. Do you mean to persist on these
lines?" Fandor looked away from the stupefied Elizabeth and her questioning
glance: he answered the magistrate at once. "The proof of what I advance, you
will find by searching Mademoiselle Dollon's room.... I would rather not say
more than that...."

"Allow me to state, monsieur, that I cannot arrange for such an investigation
until to-morrow morning!" Then, addressing the astounded Madame Bourrat, the two
bankers, and the manservant, Jules. "Madame, messieurs, will you be kind enough
to withdraw? Madame, I advise you, under pain of the most serious consequences,
not to allow anyone whatever to enter your premises, nor go into Mademoiselle
Dollon's room, before this matter has been fully sifted by the legal
authorities. Be good enough to wait in the passage--all of you!" Having
witnessed their exit, the magistrate walked up to Fandor, and looking him
straight in the eyes said:

"Well!... Out with it!" "Well," replied the journalist, "if you institute a
search in the place I have indicated, you will find, in the chest of drawers,
under a pile of Mademoiselle Dollon's personal linen a piece of soap wrapped up
in a cambric handkerchief. Take this soap to Monsieur Bertillon's department,
and after the scientific tests have been applied to it, you will be able to say
that it bears distinct impressions of Dollon's hand!" "Dollon's?" The magistrate
gasped. Elizabeth Dollon had fallen back into the arm-chair, from which she had
risen all trembling. Her tears had ceased. She stared at the two men with wide
open, terrified eyes. All the time, the clerk in spectacles wrote steadily on at
his table, noting down the details of the scenes he was witnessing. There was a
palpitating silence. Monsieur Fuselier had returned to his writing table. Jerome
Fandor seemed to have recovered his composure, an ironic smile curved his lips
beneath his small moustache, whilst his hand sought that of Elizabeth: it was
the only way he could, at the moment, express the sympathy he had never ceased
to feel for her. Monsieur Fuselier filled in a printed paper and pressed an
electric bell. Two municipal guards appeared. Monsieur Fuselier rose and signing
to the soldiers to wait, he faced Elizabeth Dollon. "Mademoiselle, have you any
objections to make to the statements of Monsieur Jerome Fandor? Will you say
whether or no you received a visit from your brother?" Elizabeth, tortured by
intense emotion, her throat contracted, strove in vain to pronounce a word; at
last, by a supreme effort, she murmured in a strangled voice:

"Oh! Why, you are all mad here!" As she gave no direct reply to his question,
Monsieur Fuselier, after a pause, announced in a grave voice:

"Mademoiselle! Until I have more ample information, I am under the cruel
necessity of ordering your arrest!... Guards, arrest the accused!" cried the
magistrate sternly. Elizabeth Dollon made a movement of revolt, when she saw
herself surrounded and felt her arms seized by the two representatives of
authority. She was about to cry out in protest, but a glance--it seemed to her a
tender glance--from Fandor restrained her.... She stood speechless, inert. After
all, had she not confidence in him, although she could not understand his
attitude! Had he not been her staunch defender up to now? Had he not warned her
that she must not be astonished at anything that occurred--that she must be
prepared for anything?... Nevertheless, Elizabeth Dollon felt her brain reeling
--she was astounded beyond words.... The surprise was too strong for her....

*       *       *       *       *

About a quarter of an hour after this tragic scene, Fandor was pacing up and
down the asphalt of the boulevard du Palais, plunged in thought, when someone
clapped him on the shoulder. He turned. It was Monsieur Fuselier. "Well, my dear
fellow!" cried the magistrate, resuming his customary tone of good fellowship.
"Well, what an adventure! You have been playing some fine tricks! I never
expected such a stroke as that, the deuce if I did!" "Ho, ho!" laughed Fandor,
"I think that a week from to-day we shall know a good many things!" "Well,"
replied the magistrate, "I have had the girl placed in solitary confinement--
that makes them willing to speak out!...." Fandor looked the magistrate up and
down. "Ah!" murmured he, with a scarcely perceptible note of contempt in his
voice:

"You think you will extract information from that quarter, do you?" "But why
not? Why not?" interrupted the dapper Monsieur Fuselier, in a sprightly tone;
and, leaving Fandor abruptly, he leapt into a passing tramcar. Fandor watched
Fuselier cross the road and climb to an outside seat. Whilst the magistrate
waved a friendly farewell from the top of the disappearing car, Fandor shrugged
disdainful shoulders, and, with pitying lips, muttered one word:

"Fool!" XVIII

AT THE BOTTOM OF THE TRUNK

After Monsieur Fuselier's departure, Fandor rejoined Madame Bourrat on the
boulevard. The good woman was very much upset by the dramatic scene she had
witnessed. She had sent off her manservant, and was preparing to take the tram
back to Auteuil. Fandor asked if he might accompany her, and Madame Bourrat was
only too delighted to have a chance of further talk with the journalist, for she
had a lively desire to learn all she could about the extraordinary drama in
which she found herself involved. When they arrived at Auteuil, Madame Bourrat
had learned nothing definite, for the journalist had given only evasive answers
to her questions. Still, one point was obvious: Madame Bourrat considered
Monsieur Jerome Fandor as the most amiable man in the world, and she was
disposed to help him to the utmost of her powers, in defence of any interests he
wished to safeguard....

Madame Bourrat was absolutely set on receiving Monsieur Fandor in her private
apartments. She then seized the opportunity to complain of the trouble this
affair had brought into her regular and peaceful existence. Certainly, in
summer, her boarders were less numerous; their numbers being, in fact, reduced
to two or three. This season there had been fewer than usual; but the accident,
or attempted assassination of Mademoiselle Dollon, had undoubtedly brought
discredit on the house. An old paralysed gentleman, who had been in residence on
the day of the drama, had departed the day after. There was not a single boarder
in the house: it was empty. *       *       *       *       *

Having made certain that her manservant, Jules, and her cook, Marianne, had
retired to their respective rooms, Madame Bourrat conducted Fandor as far as the
door of her dwelling. They had been so interested in their talk, that they had
forgotten all about dinner: their experiences of the past few hours had left
them with little appetite. It was about nine o'clock; night had fallen: house
and garden were wrapped in a mantle of darkness. "Can you find your way?" asked
Madame Bourrat. If she accompanied the journalist to her garden gate she would
have to grope back to the house in the dark, and alone! Her nerves were shaken
by recent events. She did not wish to venture forth and back in the mysterious
gloom of night, even on the familiar path of her garden. What might that
darkness not hide! What robbers, what murderers might there not be lurking near!
Fandor laughed. "Why, of course I can, madame! To find the points of the
compass, to cultivate the sense of locality, is part of a journalist's
profession." "Do not forget to draw to behind you--it needs a strong pull--the
gate which separates us from the street: once shut, no one can open it from
outside." Fandor, shaking hands with the boarding-house keeper, promised to
close the gate. As the sound of his steps on the gravel grew less and less, as
the gate fell to with a loud noise, and an absolute silence followed, Madame
Bourrat felt sure that her guest had left the garden--had gone away. But he had
done nothing of the sort! Fandor had shut the gate noiselessly, but he had
remained inside the grounds. He stood motionless, holding his breath, wishing
neither to be seen nor heard. He remained so for a long twenty minutes. Then,
being assured that Madame Bourrat had retired for the night--she had closed her
shutters and put out her light--he rubbed his hands, murmuring:

"Now we shall see!" Stepping gingerly along by the side of the wall, he reached
the main building of the boarding-house: luckily, it was empty as far as
boarders were concerned. He recognised Elizabeth Dollon's window on the first
floor and was glad to see that it was half open. Chance favoured him--there was
even a gutter pipe running down the wall and passing close to the window.
Providence had favoured him with a fine staircase; there would not be much
difficulty in climbing that! No sooner thought than done! Accustomed as he was
to exercise and games, Fandor, agile as a young man in good training can be,
squirmed up the pipe as far as Elizabeth's window. He caught hold of the sill,
recovered his balance, jerked himself up, and, two seconds after, had landed in
the room. Dared he strike a light! He remembered pretty accurately the position
of the various pieces of furniture, but he would like to study the room more in
detail. His luck still held, for a ray of moonlight suddenly shone out from
behind a cloud. He saw the moon sailing in a clear sky. There would be
sufficient light from the moon rays to enable him to pursue his investigations.
It was an essentially modern room; the white walls were painted with ripolin,
and were as bare of ornament as a nun's cell. An iron bedstead stood in the
middle of the room: a wardrobe, with a mirror panel in front, and locked,
occupied one of the corners; behind a folding screen was a toilette table, a
Louis XV bureau, two chairs, an arm-chair: that was all. After making this rapid
inventory, Fandor considered:

"The situation is growing complicated," said he to himself. "I am quite
persuaded that this room will shortly receive a visit from some individuals who
will not court recognition--their interests are all against that--and they
certainly will not be anxious to meet me here! These individuals assuredly know,
at this minute, that the examining magistrate is going to make a thorough
investigation here to-morrow morning.... How do they know it? It's very simple.
The prime mover in the attempted murder, or one of his accomplices, was
assuredly among the witnesses this afternoon. Is it the amiable Madame Bourrat?
Is it that doltish Jules, who looks an absolute fool, but may be masking his
game! Suppose the serious Barbey pops up? Or the elegant Nanteuil? But I do not
think so--they are rather victims than attackers--everything leads me to that
opinion. But--all this does not tell me whether the place has already been
visited or not!" Fandor unlocked the drawer, searched for the piece of soap
under the pile of Elizabeth's linen, and had the extreme satisfaction of finding
the soap had not been moved. "Good! I am here first! Ah, we shall see our men
presently! Which, and how many?" Fandor seated himself and let his imagination
work. He tried to picture the faces of the mysterious individuals he was
determined to track down--but, so far, in vain!... Then with strange, uncanny
persistence, one face rose again and again before his mental vision, clear,
vital--the face of the enigmatic Thomery, with his silver white hair, his red
face, his light blue eyes, that Yankee head of his, well set on his robust
torso.... "Thomery!" cried Fandor almost aloud. "The fact is, everything leads
me to think ... but don't let us anticipate! Concealment is the next item on the
programme!" Fandor realised that to hide under the bed was impossible: he would
be discovered immediately.... The screen was no better!... There was Elizabeth's
trunk!... Why, it was a kind of monument in wicker work! The very thing! It was
quite big enough to hold him--it was one of those enormous trunks beloved of
women!... To hide in it would be an excellent trick--a real joke! Let me burrow
in there, and see the stupefaction of these estimable characters when they open
it to rummage about among Elizabeth's belongings and find themselves face to
face with me! They will see besides my sympathetic countenance the stern mouth
of my revolver!... Let us see whether it is a possible hiding place! Fandor
raised the cover and lifted out a top compartment, in which were scattered,
among objects of feminine apparel, papers, books, and all sorts of things which
had evidently belonged to the unfortunate painter. The distracted Elizabeth, in
the hurry of departure from rue Norvins, must have thrust them in pell-mell. The
lower division of the trunk was empty. "Another bit of luck!" thought Fandor.
"Now to sample my little hide-hole!" Fandor found he could get into a fairly
comfortable position. Then he calculated, that with the compartment back in its
place and the cover open, all he had to do to close it was to shake the trunk
transversely. He could certainly remain inside for several hours without
intolerable discomfort. Raising the cover, Fandor slipped out. The interminable
hours crawled by. To smoke was out of the question. Fandor's pride in his
exploit was sinking to zero: was he passing a wretched night to no purpose? A
violent ring sounded. Someone was ringing at the garden gate--ringing loudly,
insistently--an imperative summons! Instantly Fandor was on the alert. Useless
to slip to the window and peer cautiously out, for Elizabeth's window did not
face the gate: even by leaning out he could not catch any glimpse of any
visitors, either coming to the house or passing along towards Madame Bourrat's
apartments in the annex.... Besides, Fandor feared to make a noise, and the
polished boards of the floor cracked and creaked at the least movement! "The one
thing for me to do," thought he, "is to creep back into my retreat and wait. Now
who can it be at this time of night?" Fandor's curiosity was rapidly satisfied--
after a fashion! The call of the bell had been answered by noises and hurried
footsteps, whisperings, an outburst of voices, then silence.... A few minutes
after, Fandor clearly heard some persons entering the ground floor of the house.
He listened intently: he could hear his own heartbeats. Then a voice said:

"In Heaven's name! Is it possible? Why do you come to upset people at this time
of night? As if we had not had enough to put up with during the day! It is a
dreadful business! There's no doubt about it! Are we never to be left in peace?"
"Why, it's Madame Bourrat's voice!" said Fandor. "Poor woman! What's up?" He
listened. Someone said:

"The law is the law, madame, and we are it's humble executors. As the examining
judge has ordered me to make an investigating distraint, we are compelled to
carry out his instructions to the letter. Be good enough to tell your servant to
lead us to the actual spot where the crime was attempted." "Now what is all
this?" asked Fandor. "And from whence comes this police inspector? It only
wanted that! He won't know what to make of it when I tell him who I am--and how
am I to explain my presence here? Anyhow, wait, and see what happens!" "Someone
was coming upstairs--more than one!" "This way, messieurs!" said a hoarse voice.
"The room the young lady occupied is at the end of this passage!" "This time I
recognise my fine fellow!" thought Fandor. "It is that imbecile of a Jules. But
what a triumphant tone! And how different his voice sounds to what it did, this
afternoon, at the examination!" Then Fandor all but jumped from his hiding
place. "Oh! What an egregious fool I am! Why, there is not a police inspector in
France who would come at this hour to carry out an investigation--and a
distraint to boot! What the devil does it mean? Can they be the fine fellows I
am lying in wait to meet?" The dubious individuals who had roused the house at
such an unholy hour entered the room. Someone turned on the electric light.
Though Fandor could obtain a sufficient supply of air through the openings in
the wickerwork, he could not see what was going on: he could only listen with
all his ears. Madame Bourrat accompanied her strange visitors. "It is here," she
exclaimed, "that the journalist, Jerome Fandor, found my boarder stretched out
on the floor.... You see, in this corner, is the gas stove with its tubing! They
have forgotten to refix it to the pipe; but there is no danger, the tap is
turned off and so is the meter." The personage who had given out that he was a
police inspector, whose voice was probably an assumed one, replied only by
monosyllables. Fandor did not recognise his voice. But there was another
speaker, who also had very little to say for himself; and Fandor thought he
recognised certain tones as belonging to a man who had been much in his thoughts
of late. "Thomery!" thought he. "Is it Thomery?" But he only knew the sugar
refiner by sight, and had heard him speak but once or twice at the ball: that
was not enough to go on, for Fandor had not paid special attention to the
distinguishing tone and quality of his host's voice. Nevertheless, he could not
get out of his head the idea that the celebrated sugar refiner, honoured by all
Paris, esteemed by everybody, was standing only a step or two away from him now
in this house of strange happenings, and under very peculiar circumstances. "Was
he a burglar--an assassin? One of a nefarious band?" For Fandor was now
convinced that these were not police emissaries bearing a legal mandate to
search and distrain: no, they were robbers, criminals! He was preparing to rise
from his hiding place and appear before the bandits: he would fire a few shots
and make the deuce of a row and rouse the neighbourhood. He would also save poor
Madame Bourrat, who was certainly not their accomplice. Just then he heard the
pretended police inspector say:

"Will you provide us with writing materials, madame? We must write an official
report." "Why, certainly, monsieur," replied Madame Bourrat. "I will go
downstairs and get what you require." Fandor heard her leave the room. No sooner
had she gone than a hurried conversation began in low tones. Clearly Jules was
guilty, for the pretended police inspector asked:

"No one this evening? Nothing happened?" "No," replied Jules in a servile tone.
"The journalist brought the mistress back and then went off at nine o'clock...."

"No news of Alfred?" asked the voice. The third person answered:

"Why, no. You know very well he is always at the Depot." "Let us set to work!"
said voice number one. Fandor felt that the decisive moment had arrived: someone
opened the cover of the trunk and feverish hands were turning over the confused
mass of objects in the top compartment. "Didn't you find anything?" asked the
voice of Jules. "No, no, monsieur! I searched everywhere; but as I do not read
easily, it's difficult for me...."

"Imbecile!" murmured the voice. "Ah!" said Fandor to himself. "This fellow
pleases me! He has the same opinion of this dolt of a Jules as I have!" Revolver
in hand, Fandor was on the alert. The moment they lifted up the compartment out
he would jump. Just then, Madame Bourrat could be heard approaching. "Confound
it! We shall not have time to go through everything!" muttered a voice. The
trunk cover was hastily closed. Fandor heard Madame Bourrat enter the room with
slow, heavy step. "Here are ink and paper, messieurs!" she said. Then the
pretended police inspector made a statement that startled the concealed Fandor.
"Madame, we have no time, nor are we able to make a minute investigation now.
Besides, with one exception, there does not seem to be anything suspicious about
the room; but here is a trunk which contains papers of great importance. We are
going to take it to the police station." "As you please," replied Madame
Bourrat. "I ask only one thing and that is to be left in peace. I do not want to
hear anything more about this abominable affair!" A rapid turn of the key given
to each of the locks and Fandor knew that he was now a prisoner! Brave as he
was, he felt a rush of blood to his heart and a cold sweat broke out on his
forehead. "Dash it all! I am in an awful position! Impossible to move! If these
brutes suspected they had me tight in here they would pitch me into the river as
sure as Fate! Then good-bye to _La Capitale_!" Then, before Fandor's mental
vision rose a sweet consoling figure, the figure of the girl for whom he was
braving danger, for love of whom--he certainly did love her--he had placed
himself in such a serious position.... Then all that was optimistic in his
nature--and that was much--rose to the surface, and declared the dilemma was not
as serious as it seemed.... How could the bandits know of his presence in the
trunk? They never would think Jerome Fandor so stupid as to shut himself up in
the trap! "Jules and I might shake hands as equals in folly!" concluded
Fandor.... Just then the trunk began to move. They were trying to lift it.
Whilst trying to preserve an unstable equilibrium, he said to himself in a
satisfied way:

"And just to think now that they have not rummaged in the chest of drawers, nor
have they seized the tell-tale piece of soap!... It's true that Fuselier alone
knows of its being there--I was careful not to tell anyone else.... But, where
the deuce are they going? It's the stairs, of course! It might be a rough
precipice by the shaking up they're giving me!" XIX

CRIMINAL OR VICTIM? At the bottom of his trunk Jerome Fandor was foaming with
rage, furious at being caught in the trap and uneasy as to how this adventure
would end. Whilst he was realising that his unknown porters were carrying their
heavy weight with difficulty to the pavement of rue Raffet, he made up his mind
to a definite course of action: regardless of consequences, he was going to
shout, move about, make a regular disturbance, rouse the attention of the
passers-by--if there happened to be any--but, at all costs, he meant to get out
of the trap!... He saw a ray of hope: Madame Bourrat had accompanied her
visitors as far as the gate. In presence of such a witness, they would, at
least, hesitate to do him serious bodily harm when he made his presence
unmistakably known, furious though they would be. He would take every advantage
of the situation....

Fandor was about to act: a second more and he would have started, when he heard
them speaking. He kept quiet. "We must have a taxi, or at the very least a cab
to transport this big trunk. Do you know where one is likely to be found?" "I
doubt if one will be passing at this hour, monsieur. We retire early in these
parts; but, if you like, Jules can go to the station." "That's settled. Let him
go as fast as he can!" "Well, that is reassuring," thought Fandor. "If these
fine fellows take a cab, it is not with the intention of chucking my cage and me
into the river--and that is what I feared most. They may be going to leave me in
a cloak-room till called for; or they may pack us off as luggage to some
destination unknown! ... Oh, well, I shall only be a traveller without a ticket
and I shall be sure to find some way out of the difficulty! And then, what stuff
for an article I shall have when I get back to _La Capitale_!... What must they
be thinking at the offices! It's forty-eight hours since I put foot in them!
Never mind! When they know!..." Fandor was listening with all his ears; but the
bandits had little to say; and, when they did speak, their voices were plainly
disguised. Was it as a general precaution, or was it on account of Madame
Bourrat?... But, unless they were known to her, why the necessity? If, however,
she knew one or more of them personally, why, they must have disguised their
faces and figures as well as their voices!... If only he could have a peep at
them! The sound of wheels made him suppose that Jules had succeeded in getting a
cab at the Auteuil station. Then the trot-trot-trot of a horse became audible: a
few moments later a cab drew up at the edge of the pavement. A hoarse voice was
heard. "It's not a long journey, I hope!" said the hoarse, grumbling voice of
the cabman. "To Police Headquarters," replied the pretended police inspector.
"We shall see about that!" thought Fandor. "That address is to throw dust in
Madame Bourrat's eyes. They will change their destination on the way. I bet on
it!..." "The brutes! Are they going to jam my cage and me on to the seat?"
Fandor asked himself, for they had seized the trunk and were beginning to lift
it up. ... "Am I to be stuck upside down beside the driver? I don't fancy so!...
We must weigh at least ninety kilos, as I weigh seventy myself!" Fandor's mind
was soon made easy on that score. After a fruitless attempt to hoist the trunk
to the box seat, they decided to put it on to the back seat of the Victoria. One
of the bandits planted himself on the little folding seat opposite the trunk:
the other bandit mounted to the box seat next the driver. The two bandits took
leave of Madame Bourrat. The rickety old vehicle started off. Presently, Fandor
heard what he had expected to hear: one of his captors told the driver to take
them to some other address than Police Headquarters. Owing to the rattling of
the ramshackle cab--it lacked rubber tyres--Fandor, though listening with ears
astretch, could not hear one word distinctly. Soon pale gleams of light began to
filter through the wickerwork: dawn was near. "Ah, we shall soon reach our
destination," thought Fandor. "I don't fancy my trunk lifters will wish to be
seen with this turnout in broad daylight! Now, where the deuce are we going?" In
vain did Fandor strive to follow the route taken by the bandits! He had noted
each shock and counter-shock produced by cobbled streets and smooth roads, by
bumping against pavements, by crossed tram lines and sharp turnings!... The cab
stopped with a jolt and a jerk. The two men got out. The trunk was lifted down
to the pavement. The driver was paid. He rattled off. "Now trunk and I are in
for it!" thought Fandor. A bell pealed. A courtyard entrance gate was thrown
open. The two men lifted the trunk, cursing under their breath at its weight. In
passing under the archway they called some name unknown to Fandor and so
unintelligible that he could not remember it; then it was a painful ascension:
up a staircase they went with prodigious effort, stopping on two landings. "Two
floors," counted Fandor. "We are coming to the end, and, all said and done, I
would rather be in a house than at the bottom of the river!" A key turned in a
lock; the trunk was pushed rapidly inside; then the noise of a door being shut.
Fandor was in a room; no doubt, alone with the two bandits, and at their mercy!
He was plunged into complete darkness. Evidently the shutters were still closed.
The noise made by footsteps on the floor showed that it was uncarpeted. Judging
from the sound, there seemed to be little furniture and no hangings in the room.
"Am I and my cage in an ordinary room, in a studio, or in a hall?" wondered
Fandor. In any case, the fellows who had brought him there seemed anxious to
avoid making a noise. Then he felt the cover of the wickerwork trunk bend
slightly and heard it creak. For a moment, he thought the two men were about to
open his prison. He had his revolver ready: every inch of him was on the
defensive! Then he realised that his captors had merely seated themselves on the
trunk to rest! They began to talk. "This," thought Fandor, "is splendid! I shall
hear everything they say. Why, it is a conversation in my honour! What luck!"
Fandor was delighted: thanks to his position he would hear some interesting
secrets. He listened. Alas! He could hear every word they uttered, but he could
not understand what they were saying! Fandor swore strictly to himself. The two
wretches were conversing in German. To the best of his judgment, a good hour had
passed since the false police inspector and his acolyte had left the room. They
had simply drawn to the door behind them, not troubling to lock it, much to the
joy of Jerome Fandor. Absolute silence reigned. Fandor attempted some discreet
movements as a test. The wickerwork creaked as he gently shook the trunk at
short intervals. Not an answering sound came from outside! Menaced with cramp,
Fandor felt that the moment of escape had arrived. He was, certainly, the only
living soul in the place: listen as he might, and his sense of hearing was
acute, he could not hear any sound of breathing. Yes, the time to quit his
prison had come! Fandor had with him, besides his revolver, a box of matches,
and a hunter's knife consisting of several blades, and a little saw. Getting out
his knife with some difficulty, he began to hack at the wickerwork. Dry and
pliant, the interlaced rods did not long resist the saw's steel teeth. It took
him a bare ten minutes to make an opening, sufficiently large to push his head
and shoulders through: the rest of his body followed easily. Such was his haste
to be free, that he tore, not only his clothes, but his elbows and hands, on the
jagged ends of the broken wickerwork: large drops of blood fell on the flooring.
"Bah! I've got off cheaply!" cried Fandor, standing up to relax his cramped
muscles and stretching his aching legs and arms. "Unless I am jolly well
mistaken, I am lord of all I survey. I am alone in my glory! There's not a soul
in the place! Good luck indeed!" He turned for a last look at his broken prison
house, the cage in which he had spent such exciting hours. He suddenly stiffened
and drew back: a nervous trembling seized him--the nervous trembling due to
sudden shock. Between the trunk which had been dumped down in the centre of a
large square room, without a scrap of furniture in it, and the window, through
whose shutters the rays of morning sunshine shone, Fandor had caught sight of a
body lying on the floor--a man's body! Fandor leapt forward. Was this same
cunning criminal feigning sleep for some evil purpose? Standing over that
motionless figure, Fandor bent and touched one of the man's hands: it was ice-
cold and rigid. The man was dead! To see his face was imperative: it was turned
towards the floor. With difficulty Fandor raised the head and shoulders, for
they were unusually large and strongly built. Fandor glanced at the face and
suddenly withdrew his hand: the corpse fell back on the floor with a thud!
"Thomery!" murmured Fandor. "Why, it's Thomery!" It was the well-known sugar
refiner's body. The face was purple, the tongue protruding. Round his neck was
tied a tricoloured scarf, the scarf of a police inspector! Was this the
murderer's ironic touch? Fandor sank down quite overcome. He tried to collect
his thoughts. "A disgusting joke this! If someone should take into his head to
enter the room at this moment, what kind of explanation could I give? Here I am,
alone with the dead body of a man I know, and in a room I don't know, in a
neighbourhood whose whereabouts I know no more than the man in the moon." "Where
am I?... In whose house?... For what purpose?... Have those beauties of last
night no suspicion of the truth?... Did they leave me in this lair of theirs of
set purpose, knowing I was cooped up inside the trunk?" Just then, Fandor felt a
slight moisture on the palm of his hand: it was all red: the scratches, made by
the jagged edges of the wickerwork, were still bleeding. "Better and better I
declare!" murmured Fandor. "If I don't look like a little holy Saint John! A
corpse, and a man with blood on his hands seated beside the dead body of this
murdered man! Nothing more is required to jail me with all the power of the
law!... To go to prison under such suspicious circumstances is serious!... The
police, who are floundering about in a maze of investigations, without any
result so far, will be only too delighted to kill two birds with one stone--to
suppress a journalist and discover a criminal!... I have got to get out of here;
that is plain as a pikestaff!... Get away? Yes, but with the honour of war!... I
must establish an alibi--that is absolutely necessary.... I like to think that
my false police inspector and his accomplice have cut and run for some time; at
any rate, that they will be in no hurry to come back to see what is happening
where they have so neatly and nicely left the corpse of this Thomery.... What
part did this fellow play in the drama?... Criminal or victim?" Fandor had
reached the door of the hall opening on to the main staircase. He was
listening.... He had explored the flat. It was empty. He had found water in the
kitchen, had washed his face, and removed every trace of blood from his person.
It was a flat suitable for a middle-class household. There were three large
rooms, decorated with a certain amount of luxury. Fandor looked at his watch. It
was seven o'clock. He stood listening. Someone, a man, was coming downstairs:
someone, a woman, was coming up. They met on the landing just outside. "Monsieur
Mercadier, here are your letters! I was bringing them up to you!" "It was hardly
worth while, my good lady. I have to come down, you see, so you can save
yourself five flights of stairs!" "Oh, no, monsieur! I have to come up to go
down my stairs." Monsieur Mercadier continued to descend, and the portress
continued to mount. Fandor's heart beat faster when he realised that she was
approaching the door. Would she come in and find him there? Had the new tenants
left a key of the flat with her? No, the portress dusted the landing quickly and
continued her ascent: he heard her going up and up.... He made up his mind to
slip out on to the landing. Despite his efforts, he could not prevent his shoes
creaking: it was spring-time, and already the stair carpet had been taken up. He
was on the point of going downstairs, when he heard the portress calling from
above:

"Who's there?... What do you want?" Had she heard him leave the flat? Was he to
be stupidly caught, just as he was escaping?... He must act at once. He went up
a step or two of the next flight of stairs and called out:

"Is Monsieur Mercadier at home?" "Ah, no, monsieur! He has just this minute gone
out! I am surprised you did not meet him!..." "Very good, madame. I will come
another time!" Fandor turned on his heel, and, whistling, with hands in pockets,
he gained the ground floor, passed the entrance gate, and found himself in the
street. He mingled with the passers-by, and learned from the first plaque he
came to with the name of the street on it, that he was in rue Lecourbe,
Vaugirard....

XX

UNDER THE HOODED MASK

What had happened? By way of what mysterious adventures had the corpse of sugar
refiner Thomery reached that empty room in rue Lecourbe, where Jerome Fandor had
come across it? Two days previous, on the afternoon of Elizabeth Dollon's
arrest, Monsieur Thomery was working in his study, when a servant came to tell
him that a lady wished to speak to him. "Did she give you her name?" asked
Thomery. "No, monsieur, this person said her name would tell you nothing; but
she was sure monsieur would see her, for she would only detain him a minute or
two...."

Piles of papers were stacked on the great sugar refiner's study table: typists
were laying numerous letters before him, which awaited his signature. Thomery
thought to himself:

"I have still a good half-hour's work before me ... deuce take this importunate
visitor!" He was on the point of saying he could not see any one, when the
servant added:

"This person declares she comes with reference to Madame the Princess Danidoff."
Though he was a man of business, Thomery was a gallant man also; and very much
in love; his approaching marriage with the Princess, which had been kept secret,
was now known. The name of Princess Danidoff settled the question. "Very well,
let her come in!" The manservant disappeared a minute, then ushered into the
study a very unassuming woman of uncertain age and quite ordinary looking.
Thomery rose to meet her, pointing pleasantly to one of the large arm-chairs in
the room. The visitor was profusely apologetic. "I am so exceedingly sorry,
Monsieur Thomery, to disturb you at such an hour, when you must certainly have a
great deal to occupy your attention; but the matter I have come about will not
wait, and I am sure it will interest you...."

This little person seemed very intelligent, and Thomery was favourably impressed
by her manner, which was both simple and decided. "Madame, I am listening to
you. In what way can I be of service to you?" "I am not here, monsieur," she
protested, "to pester you with any wants and wishes for myself. I am a diamond
broker and ..."

She had not finished her sentence when Thomery, smiling but firm, rose, and said
sharply:

"In that case, madame, I can guess the motive of your call...."

"But, monsieur ..."

"Yes!... That is so!... Ever since my approaching marriage has been announced, I
have received, every day, a dozen visits from jewellers, goldsmiths,
upholsterers, and so on ... I regret to have to tell you that you will not be
able to persuade me to buy ... that my betrothed has received so many wedding
presents that there is no room for more.... I do not require one single
thing...."

Although Thomery had spoken in a tone which did not admit of any reply, although
he had risen the better to mark his intention of cutting short the call, the
diamond broker had remained seated, leaning back in her arm-chair.... She gave
no sign of being ready to go away. "Consequently, madame," continued Thomery....

His visitor laughed. "Monsieur, you have very quickly made up your mind that I
have nothing interesting to offer you! I have not come to offer you ordinary
jewels...."

It was Thomery's turn to smile slightly. "I quite understand, madame, that you
should think your merchandise exceptional.... But once more ..."

The broker interrupted the sugar refiner with a movement of her hand. "Do listen
to me a moment, monsieur!... Though I am a diamond broker, diamonds are not what
I have come to ask you to purchase ... it is a question of something quite
different...."

She paused deliberately: Thomery gazed at her without saying a word. "You know,
monsieur," continued the broker, "that in such a business as mine, one is
obliged to see a great many jewellers every day; well, in the course of my
peregrinations, I found at a jeweller's--you must allow me to withhold his name
--some pearls, which I am certain you will find are a wonderful bargain...."

"For the last time, madame, I do not want a wonderful bargain!" The agent smiled
curiously. "There are some things which simply do not allow themselves to be
refused," she declared.... She now drew from her pocket a little jewel-case;
and, notwithstanding Thomery's unconcealed impatience, opened it, and selected
two pearls which she held out to him. "Do examine these jewels! You are going to
tell me that they are perfectly beautiful, are you not, Monsieur Thomery?" The
diamond broker offered them so naturally that Thomery gave way. He examined the
pearls: he was a connoisseur. "In truth, madame, these pearls are superb;
unfortunately I am not enough of an expert to buy them without taking competent
advice, that is if I thought of acquiring them eventually, but I repeat, I have
no wish to acquire such things!" "Deuce take it!" thought Thomery. "This broker
won't take 'no' for an answer! Since I cannot rid myself of her by being
pleasant, I shall make myself disagreeable!" But the would-be seller still
insisted. "Monsieur, you really cannot be a connoisseur, otherwise I am sure you
would not return these pearls to me." "But, madame!..." "And I am convinced that
if Princess Sonia Danidoff had had them in her hand instead of you, she would
have been greatly taken with them!" The broker had emphasised her words so
strangely that, suddenly, Thomery hesitated. What did this mysterious visitor
mean? What was it she considered so "extraordinary" about the jewels she had
just submitted to him?... A suspicion flashed across his mind. "Whence come
these pearls, madame?" But, at this question, the broker got up. "Monsieur
Thomery," declared she, "I should be very vexed with myself were I to make you
lose your evening ... your time is precious; besides, in order to give you a
proper answer to your question, I should have to make certain of facts I only
now guess at.... Still, I think that without having told you anything definite,
I have made you sufficiently understand what is in my mind,... you will not now
doubt the interest that the Princess Sonia Danidoff would have, were she able to
examine these jewels...."

"Is that so?" "Consequently, Monsieur Thomery, I am going to ask you if you will
kindly show these pearls to the Princess; and then if you will be good enough to
let me know what decision you come to, jointly with her.... If you were a buyer,
I fancy I might let you have these jewels on quite exceptional terms." Thomery
visibly hesitated.... He was looking at the pearls, which he was still holding
in his hand, and he thought. "One might swear that these are two of the pearls
stolen from Sonia at my ball!" Thomery did not reply at once. The broker was
looking at him with a smile; she seemed to guess his thoughts. Thomery, on his
side, was examining the woman. "Is she simply a police informer?" he asked
himself. "One of these women who apparently are dealers, but are really in the
pay of the police, and frequent jewellers for the purpose of tracing stolen
jewels?" He was on the verge of asking her who she was, but he refrained. If
this woman had not presented herself under her true colours, evidently she
wished to pass for an ordinary dealer. It was possible that she was really a
receiver of stolen goods! Thomery came to a decision. "I shall have the
privilege of seeing the Princess Danidoff to-morrow afternoon; will you
therefore leave the pearls with me?... I will show them to her. Should she
express the slightest wish to possess them, I might possibly come to terms with
you...."

*       *       *       *       *

"Dearest, it is sweet of you to make no objection to the way in which I obtained
this jewel for you to see, and to choose for your own, if you will.... The
correct thing would have been to ask you to accompany me to some well-known
jeweller, instead of which, I frankly confess, that these pearls were offered to
me on very advantageous terms. If they please you, it will give me the greatest
pleasure to see them adorning your graceful neck." Princess Sonia laughed. "My
dear, for Heaven's sake, don't worry about such a thing as that!... A pearl is
not less beautiful because it comes from some unpretentious jeweller's shop. I
am too fond of jewels for their own sake, to trouble about the casket that
enshrines them!" Thomery bowed, well pleased. "Here then, dear Sonia, are the
two pearls entrusted to me as samples ... please, dearest, examine them
carefully, very carefully ... and if you like them, tell me so frankly...."

The Princess took the two pearls from the betrothed, and, crossing the great
drawing-room, she approached one of the bay windows, lifting the thin hangings
that she might the better examine the pearls. "They are marvellous!" she cried.
"Dear Sonia, you think these gems rarely beautiful?" "Indeed I do! Their lustre
is superb; their quality, their shape, perfect!... Why, my dear, these are the
most splendid pearls I have ever seen--with one exception--the only pearls to
equal them are those that were stolen from me!... The loss of them has been a
bitter grief ... they came to me, you know, from my dear mother!... I never
thought to find pearls of such quality again...."

"You consider these to be of as pure a quality then, dear?" Sonia Danidoff
continued to examine the two pearls. "It is really extraordinary," she cried
suddenly. "Do you know, my dear, there are certain peculiarities about their
lustre,... yes ... I could swear that these very pearls you are offering me are
two of those stolen from me!..." Thomery appeared to have been impatiently
awaiting these very words. "You really, truly believe, Sonia, that they resemble
the pearls stolen from you that unlucky evening?" "I repeat--they are
identical!" Thomery looked smilingly at Sonia. "Well, then, my dear one, I do
not think you are mistaken!... I have all sorts of reasons for supposing that
they really are two of your own pearls you are now holding in your hand...."
And, then and there, Thomery told his fiancee all about the strange visit he had
received the evening before, as well as his hope that he would be able to
recover the stolen triple collar in its entirety. "That intriguing dealer," said
he finally, "must be a police informer.... In any case, I am persuaded that,
before long, she will take me to some receiver or other who is in possession of
your pearl collar." "Oh, tell me you are not going among such people, all
alone?" cried Sonia, with a note of sharp anxiety in her voice. "But, why not?"
"If they are, as you think, thieves?" "Well?" "Well! Don't you see, my dear,
that if you go to buy the pearls, they will count on your bringing a large sum
of money with you!... Why, it would be a most imprudent thing to do!..." Thomery
shrugged his shoulders. "Really, that's nonsense, Sonia! If these assassins
meant to set a trap for me, they have a thousand other means of doing so ...
besides, it would be remarkably daring of them to advise me to show you these
pearls, and draw my attention to the question of their being stolen ones!... No,
Sonia, this dealer is not the emissary of a band of robbers and assassins: she
is a police informer, who has taken precautions. I run no dangerous risks by
accompanying her! Reassure yourself on that point!..." But Sonia Danidoff was
not reassured by Thomery's arguments. "All that only frightens me!" said she....
"If you do not really think you are running any risk, will you let me go with
you?... My dear, we will go together to identify those pearls, will we not?"
Thomery rose to take his leave, laughing and protesting. "Why, dear Sonia, it
would be in the highest degree improper on my part, were I to agree to such a
proposition!... One of two things: either there is no danger, and I should be
very sorry that I had let you go out in such shocking weather; or, if there is
danger, I should be still more distressed were I to drag you into it with me....
I do beg of you, Sonia, do not insist on it.... I am not a child!... And I will
be very careful--very wary!..." *       *       *       *       *

Shortly after this, Thomery took leave of Sonia Danidoff. He went straight to
the Cafe de la Paix, where he had arranged to meet the diamond broker....

She was punctual. She greeted Thomery with her most winning smile. "I am
persuaded, monsieur, that Madame Sonia Danidoff was interested by the offer you
made her?" "Quite so," replied Thomery.... "Should we go to your jeweller's,
without further loss of time?" "If you really wish to do so, monsieur! Indeed it
would be the best thing to do...."

Thomery hailed a cab. He and the diamond agent entered it together, and she gave
the driver an address. Twenty minutes later they left the cab and were standing
before the house where the present possessor of the pearls was to be found.
Thomery knew no more now about the person he had come to interview, than he did
when he started: that is to say, practically nothing. The diamond broker had
cleverly evaded giving any direct answers to the sugar refiner's questions: she
had confined herself to stating what would be the probable price demanded for
the pearl collar--which question interested Thomery least of all! They mounted,
in single file, a rather poor sort of staircase: on the second floor the woman
stopped. A narrow door faced them.... The woman rang.... They waited....

"Someone is coming!" said the woman. "I hear footsteps." The door was opened
half-way. "Who is it?" asked a man's voice. "I, dear friend," answered the
woman. The door opened wide: the same voice said:

"Come in, monsieur." Thomery had barely stepped inside the room, when the
diamond broker, who was close behind, flung a long silk scarf round his neck,
and, pushing his knee into his victim's back for a support, he attempted to
give, with Herculean force, the famous stroke of Father Francis Vigozous;
energetic, Thomery did not lose his presence of mind.... He knew that to resist
such a pull by simple force was impossible.... Quickly he threw himself
backwards, thus giving to the strangling pull and falling on top of the woman,
who had played this dastardly trick on him. From his constricted throat came a
hoarse "Ah!" like a death rattle. As he was falling, for one flashing second, it
seemed as though he were going to escape from the vise which was crushing in his
throat... then, out of the shadow, there had appeared the fantastic vision of a
man in a tight fitting sort of black jersey, which covered him from head to
foot.... His face was concealed by a hooded mask.... This man had leapt out of
the shadow. He held a dagger in his hand. Before Thomery had time to make a
movement, the masked man had pierced his chest with a single stroke!... The
sugar refiner was naught but a convulsive corpse. "Ah, well!" declared the so-
called diamond broker, who had got to his feet and was kicking Thomery's body
aside. "Ah, well, he is a dead weight this fellow!... By Jove, master, I fancied
he was going to crush me, and that I should have to let him free!... You did
well to come to the rescue!" The masked man remarked in an indifferent tone:

"It really does not matter in the slightest!... Tell me, does anyone suspect?"
"No one, master. He came like a sheep to the slaughter." "Princess Danidoff?"
"Ah, as for her--she must be waiting for the return of her beloved friend.... I
do not advise you to pay her a visit!" "Be silent, chatter-box!" ordered the
masked assassin sharply. "Get rid of your clothes.... We must hurry!... We have
work to do!" "This evening?" "This evening!" And, whilst the diamond broker rid
himself rapidly of skirt and bodice and regained his masculine appearance--for
this diamond broker was a man--the masked assassin added:

"Nibet, you have played your part perfectly, and I will pay you to-morrow the
sum we agreed on; but, I repeat, we have work before us this evening--so, be
quick!" There was a short silence, then the bandit asked:

"You have arranged to put among this fool's papers the rent receipts, which will
enable the police to find this flat?" "Yes, master!" "Good! Now all we have to
do, is to get away from this room, which we shall not see again ... until this
evening at any rate!" XXI

IN A PRISON VAN

In one of the rooms reserved for readers of _La Capitale_, Jerome Fandor was
gravely listening to Madame Bourrat's account of what had occurred at her
boarding-house during the night. She had rushed off to tell him and to ask his
advice. "What you tell me, madame, is truly extraordinary!" said Fandor, with an
air of profound astonishment....

"How did you discover that the police inspector who seized the trunk and carried
it away was not a genuine policeman?" "Why, through the arrival of Monsieur
Xavie, the police inspector of our district! I know him.... There was no
mistaking who and what he was; and when I told him that the trunk had been
carried off the preceding evening, rather in the dead of night, he guessed
everything...."

"And what did he say?..." "Oh, he made us all come to the police station; and I
can assure you that he looked far from pleased!" "You must admit, dear madame,
that his annoyance was not without reason!... The police were made fine fools of
in this affair.... But afterwards?... Whom did he take back with him to the
police station?" "He took me and my manservant." "And when you got to the police
station?" "Well, Monsieur Fandor, when we reached the police station, he made us
come into his office, and there he put us through a regular examination,... just
as though he suspected us!" "But there must have been an accomplice in your
house who let the robbers in," said Fandor. "I do not suppose the false police
inspector forced the door open!" "Ah, but, Monsieur Fandor, here is something I
do not understand, nor does anybody else!... No, they did not try to hide
themselves--not the least in the world! They rang the bell; they asked to see
me; they told me what they had come for; and, accompanied by my manservant,
carried away the trunk, and had it put on the cab--all in the most open and
bare-faced manner!" "It was your manservant who accompanied them?" "But most
certainly ... and that very fact turned against Jules, in a very nasty
manner.... Poor Jules! Just imagine, the police inspector finished by ordering
my house to be thoroughly searched from top to bottom! And when the policemen
returned, without a why or wherefore, they took Jules away to another part of
the police station!" "I say! I say!" "Oh, it was all explained! As soon as Jules
had gone, the police inspector told me that they had found keys in his rooms,
keys which could be made to fit any kind of lock whatever. Monsieur Xavie was
convinced that my poor Jules was a burglar--imagine it!" "And you, yourself,
madame, are convinced of the contrary?" "Oh, assuredly! Why, I have known Jules
a very long time! And in many little ways on many occasions, he has shown
himself to be strictly honest." "But those false keys?" "Those false keys,
Monsieur Fandor, why I myself made Jules buy them, hoping to find among them one
that would open my coach-house." "So that?..." "So that, Monsieur Fandor, the
police inspector was obliged to agree with me that Jules was honest!" "And he
released this servant of yours?" asked Fandor. His tone expressed annoyance.
"No, and that is why I am so distressed. He said, that provisionally, at least,
my servant, Jules, was to be considered as under arrest! What ought to be done
to get him let out?" "But, madame!... He will be set free to-morrow, you may be
certain of it!..." "No doubt he will!... All the same, there is my house turned
upside down, and I need Jules to help me to-night!... I really do not know what
I shall do without him! Poor fellow!... I simply cannot imagine how it is they
suspect him!" Fandor said, with mock gravity:

"Ah, madame, Justice is sometimes so stupid--so wrongheaded!... Look here now,
would you like a bit of good advice?... Telephone to Messieurs Barbey-Nanteuil.
They are well known and powerful--perhaps they would exert their influence in
your servant's favour? He might be set free this evening! I, you see, am but a
journalist, and without a scrap of influence!" Madame Bourrat thought this a
good idea. Fandor rang for an attendant. "Take madame to the telephone!" Left to
himself, the reporter could not help rubbing his hands. "I must get rid of this
excellent woman, who is certainly the most foolish person it has ever been my
lot to meet. Good hearing! That servant of hers is under lock and key--things
are going in the right direction ... but they are not going well for me!... If
he confesses, to-morrow, when he is had up for examination, then the police will
have the information before me!... Then, too, they are such duffers--such
bunglers--that they are quite capable of giving that Jules his liberty!... What
the deuce must I do to prevent his being let loose, and how am I to stop the
judicial interrogation?... What a dog's life a journalist's is!" Madame Bourrat
reappeared. "Monsieur Nanteuil is not there," she said. "But I got into
communication with Monsieur Barbey.... He advised me to wait till to-morrow: he
said it was too late in the day to do anything...."

"But, will he not intervene to-morrow?" "I don't know. To tell the truth, I am
sure Monsieur Barbey thought it very inconsiderate of me to disturb him about a
matter in which he takes not the slightest interest." "That's a fact. What
possible interest can the bankers take in such a matter?... My advice was
absurd!" Fandor rose. As he was seeing his visitor out, he said:

"In any case, dear madame, count on me to-morrow morning. I shall call at your
house about eleven. If there is anything fresh, we can talk it over!..." *
*       *       *       *

"Oh, here's Janson-de-Sailly College!... Oh, what detestable remembrances you
conjure up!... But--this won't do!... Go it, my boy!... I must play the part!"
The plumber, who had just given utterance to these remarks, glanced sharply
about him. When he had made sure that there was no one close on his heels, he
stepped into the roadway, and started on a zigzag course which seemed likely to
upset his balance. Crossing the avenue Henri-Martin, going straight, towards the
town hall at the corner of the rue de la Pompe, the good plumber, who was
staggering more than a little, began to stutter and stammer in a drunken voice:

"_It is the final struggle!_"

The passers-by looked round. "They sing the _Internationale_ in the streets now,
it seems!" remarked a severe-looking gentleman. The workman turned to this
correct personage. "What of it?... Don't you think it a jolly fine thing then?"
In a thick voice he continued to sing:

"_Let us gather, and on the morrow..._"

The severe and correct personage spoke. "My friend, you would do better to hold
your tongue!... You forget that there is a police station close by!..." But the
incorrigible plumber caught the correct personage by his coat tails. "If I sing
the _Internationale_, it's because I'm a free man--ain't I?... A free man can
sing if he likes, can't he? Eh!... Why don't you sing then?... Eh!..." The
correct personage drew himself up stiffly: tried to push the obnoxious plumber
away.... The workman had now reached that stage of drunkenness when discussions
tend to become interminable. The gentleman pushed the drunken man aside, saying:

"Come! Come! Go away!... Leave me alone!" But the maudlin plumber was attracting
the attention of the passers by his gestures. He addressed the world at large.
"Would you believe it--that fellow there don't want me to sing!... No! Well, I'm
going to!" and he started triumphantly. "_It is the--the--final ... strug-gle!_"

A policeman came out of the station with a solemn air. He put his hand on the
tipsy plumber's shoulder in paternal fashion. "Go along with you, my friend!...
Come now--pass along--pass along!" But he could not make the plumber budge
before he had finished his verse, any more than he could teach him to walk
straight on the spur of the moment!... Leaving hold of the gentleman's coat
tails, the worthy plumber seized the policeman's arm.' "Oh, you, you're a
brother!... I have education, I have! You're a workman too, I know!..." As the
police inspector pushed him off, trying to make him go on his way, the plumber
put his arm round him. "No! No!... show you're a workman! Sing with me!" "_It is
the final ..._"

The scandal could no longer be tolerated! Street-corner idlers were gathering,
people were laughing at the policeman: strong measures were necessary. "Come
now," said the policeman. "Yes, or no! Will you be off, and go home?... Eh!...
Or shall I take you to the station?..." "You take me?... You take me?... Why, it
would take four of you to take me!..." There was no shilly-shallying after this!
Wounded in his vanity, the servant of the law did not hesitate. "All right!"
said he; and seizing the plumber by the collar, although there was no attempt at
resistance, he dragged his prisoner towards the town hall of the district, for
the police station was there also. "Some more game for the Depot!" said the
policeman as he passed the guard.... "A fellow I can't get rid of! Are the cells
full up?" Other policemen came up. An arrest in a peaceful district gives
interest to the dull routine of the men on duty. "The cells full? Go along with
you! There's only a small shopkeeper who had no papers." Thereupon the
unfortunate singer, who continued to stagger about, was quickly pushed into the
dark room called "the detention room." An ordinary every day incident of the
streets, this arrest of a drunkard! "I shall have to write out a report for this
fellow!" said the policeman, who had arrested the songster... "and the 'Salad
Basket'[10] passes in an hour's time! ... I shall just do it!" [Footnote 10:
Prison van.] *       *       *       *       *

"Have you anyone for the Depot to-day?" asked the driver from his high seat on
the prison van. He was on a collecting journey as is usual every evening, when
the Salad Baskets, as they are vulgarly called, pass to the various police
stations of Paris to pick up the individuals arrested during the day. "Two of
'em," answered the police sergeant on duty. Whilst official papers were being
interchanged and forms were being filled in according to rule, policemen went to
the cells to bring out the two prisoners to be despatched to the Depot. The
first to pass out was the costermonger. He was straightway put into one of the
narrow compartments in the Salad Basket. Then it was the turn of the tipsy and
obstreperous workman, who was now silent, moody, and apparently sober. "Hop it
now!" cried the policeman. "Come along with you, you miserable drunk!... March
now!... Foot it!" As the "drunk" hit against the partition of the narrow
passageway running up the middle of the Salad Basket, the policeman, with a
shove, pushed him into one of the compartments, carefully shutting the little
door on him and fastening it. "My word!" he exclaimed. "That fellow wouldn't
have been capable of walking three steps in an hour's time!" As the driver
climbed to his seat on the van, the policeman called out, with a laugh:

"You have a traveller inside who doesn't detest wine!... It's a pity to see a
man in such a hoggish state!" This same policeman would have been surprised,
could he have seen the bibulous one's face when the Salad Basket cast loose from
her moorings and started off in the direction of the Point-du-Jour police
station, the last on the round to be visited! The "drunk" whom one push had
sufficed to plant on his seat, had briskly drawn himself upright and was smiling
broadly, a wide, noiseless smile! "What a joke!... And what a jolly good actor I
should have made!" thought Jerome Fandor, giving himself a mental hug of
satisfaction.... "Ah! They arrest the individuals I want to set talking!... The
police imagine they are going to push in first and find out the answer to the
riddle!... We shall see!" Fandor was listening intensely and trying to discover
from the movements of the Salad Basket what street they were passing along.
"Smooth going ... evidently we are still in the rue de la Pompe, so I have about
a quarter of an hour more of it!" Fandor examined the tiny cell in which he had
been imprisoned of his own free will. "Not much to be said for it!" ran his
thoughts. "There is scarcely room to sit ... impossible to stand up or turn
around ... nearly dark ... and precious little air comes in through those wooden
shutters!... I shouldn't think there ever had been an escape from these
vans!..." Fandor smiled broadly. "Even if I don't succeed, it is worth while
making the attempt!... But I shall succeed--see if I don't!... I settled it in
my mind that I was to leave the cells after this costermonger: he is in front of
me, therefore the cell behind me is empty. It will be deucedly queer if, at
Auteuil police station, they don't put that confounded Jules in it, whom I
intend to interview under the nose of the police!... I shall start talking to
him by tapping on the partition in prisoner's language. The fellow is pretty
sure to be an old offender, so he will know the system.... If he doesn't, when
we get to the Depot, I will push up to him somehow and get a few words with
him.... If the Depot is full, we shall be stuck into the common cell until
morning.... So, I take it as certain that my interview with this true and
faithful servant will come off, and I shall get to know a good deal about the
mystery!..." As an afterthought, it occurred to Fandor that probably there had
never been such a light-hearted occupant of this cell as he....

"Ah, that's the sound of the trams!... One jolt! Two jolts! Good!... The
rails!... We are crossing rue Mozart! We are going faster--in five minutes we
shall be at the Auteuil police station, and there we can start our little
operations!" There was one thing that attracted Fandor's attention, which was
keenly on the alert. There was a violent jolt, and he had a distinct impression
that the vehicle turned to the right. "Why, where the deuce are they taking us?"
Fandor asked himself. "To the boulevard Exelmans station?... We had not reached
the end of the rue Mozart, surely!... Where did we turn then? Rue du
Ranelagh?... No, there is a channel stone at the entrance, and I should have
felt it!... Rue de l'Assomption!... Again no. The roadway is up: I should be
knocked about more than this on my wooden seat. We are going over a perfectly
kept road, which cannot have much traffic!... Why, of course, it is rue du
Docteur-Blanche!... Isn't rue Mozart barred at the end? Yes. The driver must be
going round by the boulevard Montmorency.... Ah, well! I am in no hurry! There
will be time enough for me to pay my respects to the illustrious Jules!" Just as
Fandor was thus congratulating himself, he was thrown against the side of his
cell! The van seemed to have come into violent collision with some object and
had tilted over to a considerable extent. Muffled oaths came from neighbouring
cells; a stifled exclamation reached Fandor's ears; then louder still, came the
intermittent humming and snorting of a motor-car. "Confound you!... can't you
pay attention to where you are going?... Keep to your right!" Slightly stunned,
Fandor heard some one knocking. A voice asked:

"Are you hurt?" "No, but ..."

Already the questioner had moved away. "Evidently," thought Fandor, "the driver
wants to know whether his human packages are damaged or not! We have collided
with another vehicle!... Cheerful!" Fandor's cell was now at such an angle that
he could only suppose that the Salad Basket had had one of its wheels broken.
"What a nuisance!" he murmured. "Before they have finished their palaver as to
how the accident happened and have repaired the damage, we shall have been here
a full half-hour.... Jules will be in a temper!" Minute succeeded minute, long,
interminable minutes, and Fandor could not hear clearly what was said, what was
being done to put the Salad Basket on its legs again.... The atmosphere in the
little cell was becoming intolerable; for the movement of the vehicle had driven
fresh air inside the shutter, and now that the Salad Basket was stationary, the
air was becoming almost unbreathable. Fandor's nerves were on edge. "It cannot
be that they are going to leave us stranded here!" thought he.... "Ah, now they
have started repairs!" Fandor noticed that his cell was gradually regaining its
ordinary level.... A lifting-jack must have been slipped under the vehicle, for
there was a melancholy creaking sound. They must be putting the wheel on
again!... "No," thought Fandor, after some time had passed. "Never would I have
supposed that it could have taken so much time to repair a Salad Basket!... Why
we shall soon have been stuck here for two mortal hours!... I hope it won't make
any difference to our going to the Depot, nor stop my getting into close touch
with that villain Jules!" There was a further period of waiting. Then our
exasperated journalist heard the driver pass down the centre of the van. The van
door slammed.... Once more the Salad Basket was loosed from its moorings.
"Something queer is going on!" said Fandor suddenly. He felt certain the van had
turned completely round and was going in the direction it came from. "Now where
in the world are we going?... By what kind of a route are we making for that
blessed police station?" There were spaces of asphalt, succeeded by wood
pavement, then by hard stones, then asphalt and wood again, and turning
succeeded turning, whilst a new Tom Thumb was doing his possible to guess the
route the Salad Basket was taking. Presently Fandor gave it up. He had to admit
that he was completely lost.... Which way the Salad Basket was going he knew no
more than the Man in the Moon! "We have been trotting along for more than half
an hour; therefore we cannot be going to the boulevard Exelmans police station
... the distance from the rue du Docteur-Blanche to the Point-du-Jour is not
great...."

As Fandor was murmuring these words, the van slowed down, turned round; then,
with a bump and a jolt, it mounted the footpath. "Now for it," said Fandor.
"This is certainly not the Point-du-Jour station!... We are passing under an
archway--now we are turning again.... Ah, we draw up, at last!... Not too soon!"
The van did stop. Again a wait. Fandor cocked both ears; he wondered who was
going to enter the cell next his. Then a man approached the door of his little
cell, where he was indeed "cribbed, cabined and confined"; inserted a key in the
lock, opened, and shouted in a brutal tone:

"Out with you!... March! Quick now!" Fandor had no choice but to obey the orders
hurled at him. But no sooner had he descended the steps of the prison van than
he exclaimed:

"By Jove! The Depot!" This was not the moment to express all the surprise he
felt at being landed at Police Headquarters in this fashion.... All round the
Salad Basket the police were ranged in irregular order. They shouted to him to
be quick. "Come on with you! Hurry there!" Fandor, followed by the costermonger,
was pushed towards a little open door in the grey wall which led into a kind of
office, where an old frowning man was already looking through the papers, which
had been respectfully handed to him by a warder. "So you have brought only two
of the birds?" remarked the frowning official. "Yes, superintendent." "Good,
that will do!..." Turning to the warders, the frowning little superintendent
ordered: "Take them away!... Cell 14.... Useless to rouse the whole place!" Once
more the warders pushed Fandor before them, as well as the poor costermonger:
they were driven into a dark corridor on to which a row of cells opened. The
head warder opened a door. "In with you, my merry men! You will be put through
your paces to-morrow!" As the door fell to with a resounding clang, Jerome had
inspected the place by the light of a lantern. "Empty!... No luck!... My plan
has been spoiled: I shall not be able to interview Jules!" Philosophically,
Jerome Fandor was preparing to go to sleep on the plank bed which decorated one
end of the cell, when the little costermonger, roused from his torpid condition,
began to moan and groan. "Oh, what a misfortune!... To think I am innocent!
Innocent as an unborn babe!... What's to be done!... Oh, what's to be done!" The
last thing Fandor wished to do was to start a conversation with his lamenting
companion. He tapped the costermonger on the shoulder. "Good Heavens, man, the
best thing you can do is to go to sleep! Take my word for it!" Without puzzling
his brains any further over the enigmas he wished to get to the bottom of,
Fandor stretched himself on his plank bed, and was soon sleeping the sleep of
the innocent. *       *       *       *       *

Monsieur Fuselier looked perplexed. "You, Fandor! You arrested!... But am I
going mad?" Our journalist had been taken from his cell at eight in the morning,
and had been conducted to the office of the Public Prosecutor. Here, the acting
magistrate, in conformity with the law, wished to put him through the
examination which would establish his identity. All arrested persons have to
submit to this interrogation within twenty-four hours of their arrival at the
Depot. Jerome Fandor had given his name at once, and, in order to prove the
truth of his statements, he had asked that Monsieur Fuselier should be sent for,
so that the magistrate might vouch for his identity and say a word in his
favour. Monsieur Fuselier had hastened to the Depot, had taken Fandor to his
office, and had anxiously questioned him. Why, he asked, had the police been
obliged to arrest him for drunkenness in the open thoroughfare? When Fandor had
concluded his statement, the magistrate exclaimed:

"Your ruse is inconceivable!... I must compliment you highly on your ability and
your detective gifts!" "I wish I could agree with you," replied Fandor in a
depressed tone. "In spite of everything, I have not got into communication with
Jules. But, Monsieur Fuselier, have you interrogated him yet?" The magistrate
shook his head. "Alas, my poor friend, you have no idea of the extraordinary
events of the past night; evidently, notwithstanding the fact that you played a
passive part in them!" "I played a part?... Extraordinary events?... What the
deuce do you mean?" "I mean, dear Fandor, that all Paris is laughing over it.
The police have been tricked! You have been tricked! Did you not tell me, just
now, that your prison van had had an accident? Do you know what really
happened?" "I ask you to tell me." "Your vehicle was run into by a motor-car.
The driver was extremely clumsy ... or very capable!" "What's that?" Fandor
leaned forward, keen as a pointer on the scent. "It was like this," replied
Monsieur Fuselier. "Your Salad Basket was very badly knocked about by the
collision. The driver could not possibly repair it single-handed. He telephoned
to Headquarters. Help was sent at once, and he had orders to drive to the Depot
as soon as he could: he was not to trouble about the boulevard Exelmans station;
that, for once, could be cleared the following morning. Unfortunately the
telephone messages and replies had taken up a certain amount of time. When they
telephoned to the boulevard Exelmans station, from Headquarters, to warn them
not to expect the injured Salad Basket, the Depot man who was telephoning was
extremely surprised to hear that the Salad Basket had already passed on to the
Auteuil station and had taken away the arrested individuals there, notably this
famous Jules!..." "I never calculated on this!" cried Fandor. "The truth is, my
dear fellow, that Salad Basket of yours was not knocked out of action by an
unlucky accident--the knock-out was intentional--was carefully planned! It was
done to stop your van from reaching the Auteuil station!... While your Basket
was being repaired, another Basket appeared at the Auteuil clearing station!
This, if you please, had been stolen! It was standing before the Palais de
Justice. Two accomplices took possession of it and drove away. The daring
rascals were suitably disguised, of course! They produced false papers at
Auteuil, got them endorsed, went through the regular forms, and carried off the
men from the detention cells, under the very nose and eyes of the superintendent
himself!" "What became of the stolen Basket?" snapped Fandor. "It was found at
dawn near the fortifications, and, need I say--empty!" "So that Jules has
escaped?" "As you say!..." "And the car which intentionally knocked my Salad
Basket out of action--whose was it?" Monsieur Fuselier smiled. "Oh, it's a queer
affair, in fact, it may lead to the wind-up of all the Dollon business--we may
now get to the bottom of that series of crimes!... You will never guess who is
the owner of that car, Fandor?..." "No, I am no good at guessing riddles just
now ... besides, I hate them!" Fandor was nettled, exasperated! "We got the
number of the car from a witness of the smash-up; and we have verified its
correctness. Well, my dear fellow, the owner of that car is--Thomery!"
"Thomery!" gasped Fandor. "Yes. I have summoned him to appear before me--the
summons has just been issued. Between you and me, I think Thomery is guilty.
When he appears here, in, say an hour from now, I shall issue a writ of arrest
against this sugar refiner financier, and we don't know what else!" But, no
sooner had Monsieur Fuselier finished his statement--a statement which he fully
expected would strike his young reporter friend dumb with amazement--than Fandor
threw himself back in his chair and roared with laughter. The magistrate was
taken aback!... "But ... what the devil do you find to laugh at in that?" Fandor
had already checked his hilarity. "Oh, it's nothing! Only, Fuselier, I ask
myself, if really and truly, Monsieur Thomery, who is a very big fellow solidly
built, has been able to discover a dodge, by means of which he can leave Jacques
Dollon's imprints here, there and everywhere!" "But he does not leave Jacques
Dollon's imprints, because Dollon is living, because he came to see his sister--
why, you admitted that yourself!" "Why, of course! It's true!... Jacques Dollon
is alive.... I had forgotten.... Thomery can only be his accomplice then!"
declared Fandor. And as Monsieur Fuselier stared at him, astonished at the way
he had received the sensational news of the night, Fandor rose to take his
leave. "My dear Fuselier, will you allow me to express my opinion?..." Monsieur
Fuselier nodded. "Well, I am sure, that with regard to this affair, there are
more surprises in store for us: you have not got the answer to the riddle--not
yet!" With that, Fandor smiled and bowed, and left the magistrate's room. He
quitted the Palais, half-smiling, half-serious.... What was he going to do next?
XXII

AN EXECUTION

"Not much water about, is there?" "That's so, old 'un.... If I'd known, it's
boats I'd have taken to!" "Bah! Your shoes are big enough. That's not saying
it's weather for a Christian to be out in!" "Don't you grumble, old 'un! The
more it comes down cats and dogs, the fewer stumps will be stirring out
doors!... But a comrade or two will be on the prowl, eh?" "Right-o, old bird!...
Keep a lookout!... Sure he'll come this way?" "You bet your nut he will!... He
got my bit of a scrawl this morning...."

"What then?" "Shut up! Shut up! Folks coming!" *       *       *       *       *

The night was inky black. Rain fell with sudden violence, threshed and driven by
icy gusts of wind. The hour was late: the rue Raffet deserted save for the two
men who had ventured out into the tempestuous darkness. They advanced with
difficulty, side by side, speaking low. Rough customers to deal with. Their
faces were emaciated from excessive drinking: their eyes gleamed, their voices
were hoarse: a brutal pair! But their movements were souple and lively: they
walked with that ungainly swagger affected by the light-fingered gentry and the
criminals of the underworld of Paris. "And what did you say in your scrawl?"
"Oh, medlars! Take-ins! You know!... I didn't put my fist to it, though!" "Who
then?" "You ask that?" "I'm no wizard! If it wasn't your fist, whose then?" "My
woman...."

"Ernestine?" "Yes. Ernestine." They struggled on through the squally darkness.
Then one of the two broke the silence. "You're not jealous, Beadle, making your
girl write letters to such folk?" That sinister hooligan, the Beadle, burst out
laughing. "Jealous? Me? Jealous of Ernestine? You make me laugh, you really do,
old Beard!" But Beard did not share his companion's mirth. He leaned against a
palisade to take breath, while a little sheltered from the fierce onslaughts of
the wind. "I tell you what," he said in a gruff and threatening voice: "I don't
like such dodges--like those of this evening...."

"Why so, monsieur?" "Why, because, after all, it's a comrade!" "But he's
betrayed--a traitor he is!" "What do we know about it?" The Beadle nodded;
reflected. "What does anyone know about it?" he said at last....

"Why, when the comrades told us, weren't they surprised, one and all? Nibet,
Toulouche, even Mimile--they didn't hesitate, not one of them!... Well then, old
'un, as all the pals were of one mind, why hesitate? What's the use of
discussing!... but, between you and me, I don't relish it either--it bothers me
to go for a pal!..." Just then the tempest redoubled its fury: it seemed to the
cowering men as though all the devils of the storm were galloping down the wind.
Somewhere there was a moon, for scurrying clouds were dancing a witches'
saraband across a faintly clearer sky. The unseen moon was mastering the
obscurity of this midnight hour. By now, the two sinister beings were nearing
the rue du Docteur-Blanche. They were passing a garden, in which tall poplars,
caught by the squall, took fantastic shapes: they were nightmare trees,
terrifyingly strange. "No more to be said," remarked the Beadle. "The scene is
set!... Where is the meeting place?" "A hundred yards from there--a little
before the corner of the boulevard Montmorency...."

"Good! And the trap?" "It waits for us a little further off." "Who's aboard it?"
"Mimile." "That's good." The two men were now half-way along rue Raffet. The
watch had begun. Gripped by the cold they waited in silence.... The minutes
passed slowly, slowly, in the deserted street ... The Beard put his hand on the
Beadle's shoulder.... A vague sound could be heard in the distance: the steps
could be distinguished; some pedestrian was coming up the rue Raffet in their
direction. "It is he!" whispered the Beadle. "It is he!" affirmed the Beard.
"He's not oversteady on his feet!" "Perhaps he's ill shod!" The two spoke low
and in a jesting tone: it relieved the painful tension of the moment--a comrade
was marching to meet his death, and theirs the hands to deal that death--but not
yet: it was a reaction against their sense of the looming tragedy of this dark
hour! Now a man's advancing figure could be discerned. He came nearer. He was
plainly, by the cut of his garments, an indoor servant. The collar of his coat
was turned up: he had his hands in his pockets: he walked fast. "Hey! You down
there! The gang!" cried the Beard, hailing the oncoming figure. "Ah, it's you?"
"Yes, it's me, comrade." "And you too, Beadle?" "As you say...."

"What do you want of me? Since my arrest and escape from the Salad Basket, I'm
not anxious to stroll about this neighbourhood--out with it!" The Beard said in
a joking tone:

"You don't suspect, then? Speak out, Jules!..." Jules--for it was indeed he--
shook his head. "My word, I have no idea what you want!... Who wrote to me this
morning? Ernestine?" Neither the Beadle nor Beard replied. The three men stood
talking in the deserted street, bending their heads and backs under the rain,
which was now pouring harder than ever. "Come on then! Make haste!" said Jules.
"Come now, tell me what's the point--what's up--spit it out, comrades!... I
don't want to be soaked to the skin, you know!" The Beadle forced the pace: he
lifted his great hairy sinewy hand, brought it down heavily on Jules' shoulder,
and in a changed voice, harsh, rough, imperative, he commanded:

"You must follow us!" Already he had his man fast. The unsuspicious Jules did
not grasp the situation in the least. "Follow you?" he asked. "As to that,
certainly not!... No more walking for me in such weather. Wait for a sunny day,
say I!... But whatever is the matter with you--eh?... What?... Why are you
sticking out your jaws at me like this? Out with it, my lambs!... Where am I to
follow you?... You won't say, Messieurs Beadle and Beard? "You won't say?..."
Beard moved a step and got behind Jules unnoticed. He repeated in the same tone,
harsh, threatening:

"You've got to follow us, I tell you!" Instinctively Jules tried to turn round.
The Beadle's strong grip kept him motionless. Then he understood. He was afraid.
"What's come to you?" he cried in a trembling voice. The Beadle cut him short.
"Enough! Will you follow us? Yes or no?" Jules was going to say "no!" but he had
not the time! Quick as lightning the Beadle flung a long scarf round his neck,
stuck his knee into his victim's back, and pulled! Jules uttered a faint groan;
but, half stifled, nearly strangled, he had not the strength to attempt the
slightest self-defence. Directly he was flung backwards on the ground, where he
measured his length and lay nearly stunned, Beard jumped on him, knelt on his
chest, and pinioned him. Jules lay motionless. The Beard now began tying up the
legs of their victim. "Pass me a scarf!" "There it is, old 'un!" "Very good, I
am going to apply a 'Be Discreet.'" The "Be Discreet" of the Beard was a gag,
which he rolled round the servant's head in expert fashion. "Feet firm?" asked
the Beard. "Oh, jolly fine!" said the Beadle. He turned his man over as though
he were a bale of goods. Now he tied his victim's hands behind his back. "Is it
far to go to the jaunting car?" "No--for two sous, that's it!" A motor-car was
indeed coming slowly and noiselessly along rue Raffet: it was a sumptuous car!
"And if it is not he?" "Stick him up against the bank ... dark as it is, there's
every chance he won't be seen." Rapidly, the doughty two stuck Jules against the
bank at the side of the road: the unfortunate creature had fainted. Then they
took out their cigarettes, and going a few steps away, they pretended to be
sheltering themselves in order to strike a light. They need not have taken this
precaution. The car stopped in front of them. The familiar voice of Mimile was
heard:

"Got the rabbit then?" "Yes, old 'un!" "Pitch it into the balloon then!" "The
balloon?" questioned the Beadle. "Whatever's that?" Emilet laughed. "At times,
my brothers, your ignorance, mechanically speaking, is crass!... The balloon is
the back part of my car, I'd have you know." The Beard sniggered. "Good!... Pick
it up! Now, Beadle!" The two seized the body of Jules by shoulders and feet, and
flung it brutally into the limousine. A rug, negligently flung over the body of
the trussed Jules, hid him from observation. "Now we'll embark," announced
Emilet. As a precaution, the young hooligan asked:

"The bloke snores?" "Yes," replied the Beadle. "He is travelling in No Nightmare
Land...." The Beadle laughed. But Emilet was alarmed. "You haven't snuffed him
out, have you?" "No danger of it! He's only shamming!" "Off, then!" said Emilet.
They rolled away at top speed. *       *       *       *       *

The bandits' lair had been well chosen by their chiefs. It was a vast cellar,
with a vaulted roof, and earthen walls bedewed with an icy humidity. Axes,
mattocks, shovels, rakes, and watering cans lay scattered on the ground: these
were worn out tools: they had not served their purpose for many a day. The
lantern, a kind of cresset protected by a wire globe, was suspended from the
roof by a string. It shed a faint and wavering light, creating weird shadows in
that far-stretching space, too vast for the insufficient illumination. Directly
beneath the cresset lantern, inside the circle of light it threw upon the
ground, a fantastic group of human creatures pressed close to one another,
drinking, shouting, chattering, singing. A clean-shaven man, whose suspicious
little eyes were perpetually blinking, turned to a young woman. "Look here,
Ernestine, my beauty, are you certain the Beadle understood that we should be
waiting for him here?" Big Ernestine, who was crouching on the ground and
warming her hands at a wood fire, throwing up clouds of smoke, shrugged her
shoulders. "Stop it, do! You say things over and over again, like a clock,
Nibet!... Since I've told you _yes_--_yes_ it is--there now, and be hanged to
you!... You don't by chance fancy the Beadle has been made a mouthful of, do
you?" Roars of laughter greeted this. Nibet was not one of the inner circle; he
was not much of a favourite in the band of Numbers. It is true that they
reckoned him a comrade, useful, faithful, that they felt safe with him; but they
bore him a grudge because of his regular employment, because of his position,
because he was an official.... And, first and last, his warder's uniform
impressed the jail birds unpleasantly. But Nibet was not the man to allow
himself to be intimidated. "All the same," said he, "I ask where the three of
them have got to?... If they know the mushroom bed, they should have been back
long ago!" He shouted to an old woman. "Eh, Toulouche, tell us the time!" But
Mother Toulouche shook her head. "I haven't a watch!" There was a murmur of
protestation. The seven or eight hooligans assembled there awaiting the return
of the Beard and the Beadle, sent with Emilet to kidnap Jules, could not believe
that. Mother Toulouche had told the truth. The Sailor caught the old woman by
the shoulders and shook her, and went on shaking her. "Liar! Aren't you ashamed
to be in a funk with us?... Ever since this blessed Mother Toulouche has sold
winkles and many other things, ever since she began to make a little purse for
herself, which must be a big purse by now, a purse everyone here has sweated to
fill to the brim, she has always distrusted us!... You say you haven't a watch!
I tell you, you've got dozens of 'em!..." Big Ernestine interrupted. "It's a
half-hour over the hour agreed...."

A shudder ran through the assembly: Nibet, finger on lip, made a sign that they
were to listen. Then, in the mushroom bed, no longer in use, which the band of
Numbers had recently adopted as their meeting place, a profound silence fell....

"There they are!" said Nibet. Big Ernestine leaped up, left the fire, advanced
to the far end of the cellar, and imitated the cry of a screech owl to
perfection. There was a similar cry in response. "It's all right. They're here!"
she said. She returned to the fire and sat down. But Nibet seized the girl and
forced her to get up again. "Go along with you! Quick march!" he said roughly.
She protested. Nibet stopped her. "Oh, we can't stand listening to you!... Ho
there, Sailor!... Come here!... Sit down on this plank! You, the Beadle, and me
--we're to be the judges.... Beard makes the accusation: and, if her heart tells
her to, Ernestine will defend him." "I'd rather spit at the tell-tale!... You
can tear him to bits as far as I'm concerned!" cried the girl. "There's nothing
disgusts me so much as a tell-tale!" The hooligans crowded round big Ernestine.
They applauded her ironically; for they all knew that, once upon a time, she had
been strongly suspected of having dealings with, what they called, "The dirty
lot at the Bobby's Nest." *       *       *       *       *

Silence fell once more. They could hear the rasp of the rope unrolling from a
hand windlass attached to an enormous bucket. This was the primitive lift.
Moments passed. The hooligans had formed a circle beneath the black hole where
the bucket moved up and down. "It goes, old Beard?" questioned Nibet, gazing
upwards. "It goes, old bloke!" "Brought the game?" "That's what we're sending
down now!..." "That's a bit of all right!" Sailor now seized the trussed Jules
from the bucket and flung him on the ground. "Damaged goods, that--eh?" he
laughed evilly. The Beadle, Beard, and Emilet were coming down in turn. The
group below bent curiously over the prisoner. "He's soft--that sort is!" cried
Ernestine. And tapping him on the face with her foot, big Ernestine tried to
make Jules show signs of life. Beard dropped out of the bucket and stopped the
game. "Let's see, Ernestine?... Stop it now!" After gripping the hand of each
comrade in turn, after hugging a bottle and draining it in a long draught,
emptying it to the dregs, Beard flung it aside. "Let's get to work--no time to
waste!... If we finish him off, we'll have to get rid of him before morning!"
Sailor lifted Jules with the aid of two comrades. They propped him against a
massive pillar of wood which supported the cellar roof. They bound their
wretched victim to it with strong cords. Meanwhile, Ernestine was unwinding the
gag. "Take your places on the tribunal!" commanded Nibet. "And you others, a
glass of pick-me-up for the fellow!" The pick-me-up intended to restore Jules to
consciousness was brought by Mother Toulouche, under the form of a large earthen
pot full of cold water. She dashed the water in the prisoner's face. Jules
slowly opened his eyes and regained his wits, amidst an ominous silence. The
band watched his return to life with evil smiles: they quietly watched his
pallid face turn a livid green with terror. The wretched creature could not
utter a syllable. He stared wildly at those about him, his friends of yesterday,
at those seated on the mock judgment bench who, crouching forward, were
observing him with sardonic smiles. Nibet put a question. "You hear and
understand us, Jules?" "Pity!" howled the victim. Nibet was indifferent to the
cry. "He understands!... For my part, I am all for keeping to a proper
procedure.... I would not have agreed to sit in judgment on him if he had been
unable to defend himself.... We don't act that way down here!" Turning to his
acolytes for signs of their approval, he continued:

"Beard! The word is with you! Let us hear why he has been brought up to
judgment!... Tell us what he is accused of!... Bring up all there is against
him!" Beard, who was marching up and down between the hooligan tribunal and the
accused, who was half dead, and incapable of making a rational statement,
stopped, squared himself with an air of satisfaction, and began his speech for
the prosecution. "Jules, has anyone ever done you any harm here?... Has anyone
played cowardly tricks on you?... Set traps to catch you in?... Have you ever
been cheated out of your fair share of the spoil?... Is there anything you can
bring up against us?... No?... Well, here's what we have against you ... it's
not worth while lying about it either!... You are the one who has taken the wind
out of our sails over the Danidoff affair ... do you confess that?" In a voice
barely intelligible Jules gasped out:

"Beard ... I don't understand you!... I have done nothing--nothing.... What have
you against me?..." Beard took his time. Planted before the prisoner, with hip
stuck out and hand in pocket, the other hand raised in tragic invocation towards
his comrades:

"You have heard?... Monsieur does not understand!... He has not the pluck to be
open and aboveboard!" Turning again to the wretched captive, he continued:

"Well, I'm going to explain ... it was you, wasn't it, who had to put through
the robbery of the lady's jewels?... Well, do you know what you did? Do you want
me to tell you?... Instead of lending us a hand as was promised and sworn, you
kept the cake for yourself!... In other words, you, and some of your sort,
serving at the ball, put your heads together, and shut up the lady in the room
they found her in; and that way, you got out of sharing with us!... So we have
been done in the eye over that deal!... The proof that you have comrades we know
nothing about is, that yesterday when you were done in, they found a way to get
you out of the Salad Basket!... It wasn't us!... But to return to the Danidoff
robbery ... oh, you must have laughed then!... But everyone has his turn ... you
are going to laugh on the wrong side of your mouth now!... Do you know what they
call it--what you've done--dared to do?" In the same strangled voice, Jules
managed to get out the words:

"But it's not true!... I swear to you ..."

Beard did not listen. "There's not one of our lot who would give me the lie!...
To behave like that is treachery!... You have betrayed the Numbers. There it is
in a nutshell!... What have you to reply to that?" For the third time, Jules
repeated in a hoarse whisper, for he felt life was gradually leaving him: an
awful fear gripped him, he saw he was completely done for. "I swear I did not do
that!... I didn't rob the princess.... I don't even know who did!" Jules was,
perhaps, speaking the truth, but he took the worst way to defend himself.... If
he had had pluck and wit enough to take the Beard's accusation with a high hand,
if he had met threats with violent denial and assertion, it is quite possible he
might have made an impression in his favour; but he cried for pity and for mercy
from men who were pitiless! He was afraid!... His fear was shown by the
convulsive trembling which agitated his wretched body, by his ghastly pallor, by
the cold drops of sweat rolling down his forehead.... He was no longer a man: it
was a lamentable bit of human wreckage the hooligans had before them!... And the
more lamentable this wreck showed itself to be, the less worthy of their
interest it seemed! When Jules gasped out once again:

"I swear to you it was not I! No!... I did not do it!" The hooligans, moved by a
common impulse, rose, indignant, furious, mad with rage. "That's a good one,
that is!" yelled Nibet, who, beside himself with rage, suddenly forgot his
avowed respect for judicial forms. "Since he is determined to tell lies, and
hasn't the pluck to say what he's done, there's only one thing for us to do, and
that's to stop his mouth up!... Ernestine, put the plug back!" And as the girl
once more rolled the scarf round and round the head of the miserable Jules,
Nibet turned to his comrades. "Now then? One hasn't any need to waste more time
over it!... We know all the story--not so?... It's settled, I tell you!... A
fellow who has done what he has done, what does he deserve?... You answer first,
Mother Toulouche, since you are the oldest?..." Mother Toulouche stretched out a
trembling hand, as though calling on Heaven to witness an oath. "I," said the
old woman, with a wicked gleam in her eyes. "I don't hesitate!... Comrades who
flinch, sneaks who betray, get rid of them, say I!... I condemn him to
death!..." The old woman's sentence was greeted with loud applause. Nibet
resumed. "It is said!... It is unanimous!... Make a quick finish, my lads!...
Since each has been injured, let each take his revenge! I say: Death by the
hammer!" In that smoke-thickened air rose a chorus of hate and of vengeance.
"Death by the hammer! Death by the hammer!" *       *       *       *       *

In that noisome lair of the bandits a horrible scene ensued. Mother Toulouche
went groping in a dark corner. She searched for, and found, a blacksmith's
hammer. She lifted it with trembling hands, and planting herself in front of the
victim, more dead than alive, she said in a menacing voice:

"You did harm to the Numbers! You wronged them! Here goes for that then!" The
hammer described a quarter of a circle in the air and descended in a smashing
blow on the wretched victim's face! The awful punishment had begun! According to
age, one after another, the hooligans passed on the hammer, and, in a blind
passion of hate, beat followed beat on the agonising body of Jules! At last the
terrible agony was over and done! The passion of hate, the lust for revenge had
burnt themselves out. Jules had expiated the crime they had imputed to him! The
band were the victims of a paralysing fatigue. Emilet flung the blood-stained
hammer into a far corner of their den. "Well done!" said he. "He has paid the
price!" Emilet's eyes fell on Nibet. He was leaning against the wall, and, with
folded arms, was watching the scene in which he had taken no part. Walking up to
the warder, Emilet demanded:

"Ho! Ho! You backed out of it, did you, my boy?... You didn't have a throw, did
you?... No?..." Nibet grinned sardonically. "Don't talk rubbish, Emilet!... If I
have stood aside, I had my reasons for doing so.... We haven't done with Jules
yet!... Not by a long chalk!... Now that he's been killed, he's got to be got
rid of--isn't that true?... Look at yourselves, my lambs! You are covered with
red!... It will take you all of an hour to make yourselves presentable!... Now,
look at me! I'm neat and clean ... and I have a plan ... a famous plan to rid us
of that corpse there! Now, just you stir your stumps, Emilet!... I am going off
to make preparations!... I'll give you ten minutes to make yourself fit to be
seen ... it's we two are to be the undertakers; and I swear to you, that we will
give them no end of trouble to the curiosity mongers at Police Headquarters!"
XXIII

FROM VAUGIRARD TO MONTMARTRE

On the boulevard du Palais, Jerome Fandor looked at his watch: it was half an
hour after noon. "The hour for copy! Courage! I will go to _La Capitale_."
Scarcely had he put foot in the large hall when the editorial secretary called:

"There you are, Fandor!... At last!... That's a good thing!... Whatever have you
been up to since yesterday evening? I got them to telephone to you twice, but
they could not get on to you, try as they might. My dear fellow, you really
mustn't absent yourself without giving us warning." Fandor looked jovial:
certainly not repentant. "Oh, say at once that I've been in the country!... But
seriously, what did you want me for? Is there anything new?..." "A most
mysterious scandal!..." "Another?" "Yes. You know Thomery, the sugar refiner?"
"Yes, I know him!" "Well--he has disappeared!... No one knows where he is!"
Fandor took the news stolidly. "You don't astonish me: you must be prepared for
anything from those sort of people!..." It was the turn of the secretary to be
surprised at Fandor's calmness. "But, old man, I am telling you of a
disappearance which is causing any amount of talk in Paris!... You don't seem to
grasp the situation! Surely you know that Thomery represents one of the biggest
fortunes known?" "I know he is worth a lot." "His flight will bring ruin to
many." "Others will probably be enriched by it!" "Probably. That is not our
concern. What we are after are details about his disappearance. You are free to-
day, are you not? Will you take the affair in hand then? I would put off the
appearance of the paper for half an hour rather than not have details to report
which would throw some light on this extraordinary affair." Then, as Fandor did
not show the slightest intention of going in search of material for a Thomery
article, the secretary laughed. "Why don't you start on the trail, Fandor?... My
word, I don't recognise a Fandor who is not off like a zigzag of lightning on
such a reporting job as this!... We want illuminating details, my dear man!"
"You think I haven't got any, then?... Be easy: this evening's issue of _La
Capitale_ will have all the details you could desire on the vanishing of
Thomery." Thereupon, Fandor turned on his heel without further explanation, and
went towards one of his colleagues, who went by the title of "Financier of the
paper." The Financier had an official manner, and had an office of his own, the
walls of which were carefully padded, for Marville--that was his name--
frequently received visits from important personages. Fandor began questioning
him on the subject of Thomery's disappearance. "Tell me, my dear fellow, what is
happening in the financial world, now that Thomery has disappeared." "What do
you mean?" "Where is the money going--all the coppers?" "The coppers?" "Why,
yes! I fancy that when an old fellow like that does the vanishing trick, there
are terrible results on the Bourse? Will you be kind enough to explain what does
happen in such a case?" Very much flattered by Fandor's request, Marville cried:

"But, my boy, you are asking for nothing less than a course of political economy
--but I cannot do that--on the spur of the moment!... State precisely what you
want to know." "What I want to know is just this: Who loses money through
Thomery's disappearance?" The Financier raised his hands to Heaven. "But
everybody! Everybody!... Thomery was a daring fellow: without him his business
is nothing!... There was a big failure on the market to-day." "Good, but who
gains by it?" "How, who gains by it?" "Yes. I presume Thomery's disappearance
must be profitable to someone? Can you think of any people to whose interest it
would be that this old fellow should disappear?" The Financier reflected. "Those
who gain money by the disappearance of Thomery--only the speculators, I should
say. Suppose now that a Monsieur Tartempion had bought Thomery shares at ninety
francs. To-day these shares would not be worth more than seventy francs:
Tartempion loses money. But let us suppose some financier speculates on the
probable fall of Thomery shares, and has sold to clients speculating on the rise
of these shares; these shares to be delivered in a fortnight, at a price of
ninety francs. If Thomery was still there, his shares would be worth, possibly,
the ninety francs, possibly more. In the first case, the financier's deal would
amount to nothing: in the second case, his deal would be a deplorable one,
because he would be obliged to deliver at an inferior price, and would be
responsible for the difference...."

"Whilst Thomery dead ..."

"Dead--no! But simply in flight, his shares fall to nothing, and this same
financier may buy at sixty francs which he must deliver at ninety francs in
fifteen days. In that case he has done excellent business." "Excellent,
certainly ... and ... tell me, my dear Marville, do you know if there has been
any such deal in Thomery shares on a large scale?" "Ah! You ask me more than I
can tell you now ... but that would be known at the Bourse." No doubt Jerome
Fandor was going to continue his interrogation, but there was a great
disturbance in the editorial room near by. They were shouting:

"Fandor! Fandor!" The editorial secretary entered the Financier's room, and,
catching sight of Fandor, he cried:

"What's the meaning of this? What are you up to here? I told you this Thomery
affair was important.... Be off for the news as quick as you can.... Here is the
_Havas_. It seems they have just found Thomery's body in a little apartment in
the rue Lecourbe." Fandor forced himself to appear very interested. "Already!
The police have been quick!... I also had an idea that that Thomery had more
than simply disappeared!" "You had that idea?" asked the startled secretary.
"Yes, my dear fellow, I had--absolutely!" After a silence, Fandor added:

"All the same, I am going out to get news. In half an hour's time, I will
telephone details of the death. Does the _Havas_ say whether it is a crime or a
suicide?" "No. Evidently the police know nothing." *       *       *       *
*

"Monsieur Havard, I am delighted to meet you!... Surely now, you will not refuse
me a little interview?" "Not I, my dear Fandor! I know only too well that you
would not take 'no' for an answer." "And you are right. I beg of you to give me
some details, not as regards Thomery's death, for I have already made my little
investigation touching that; but as to how the police managed to find the poor
man's body." "In the easiest way in the world. Monsieur Thomery's servants were
very much astonished yesterday morning, when they could not find their master in
the house. "After eleven, Thomery's absence from the Bourse gave rise to
disquieting rumors. He had some big deals to put through, therefore his absence
could only be accounted for in one way--he had had an accident of some sort.
"Naturally enough, they warned Headquarters, and at once I suspected there might
be a little scandal of some sort.... You guess that I immediately went myself to
Thomery's house?... I examined his papers; and I found by chance three receipts
for the rent of a flat, in the name of Monsieur Durand, rue Lecourbe. One of
them was of recent date. I, of course, sent one of my men to ascertain who lived
there! This man learned from the portress that there was a new tenant there, who
had not yet moved in with his furniture; but who, the evening before, had
brought in a heavy trunk.... My man went up to this flat, and had the door
opened. You know under what conditions he found Thomery's dead body." "And you
did not find indications which went to show why Monsieur Thomery committed
suicide?" "Committed suicide?... When a financier disappears, my Fandor, one is
always tempted to cry 'suicide'; but, this time, I confess to you that I do not
think it was anything of the kind!..." "Because?" "Because"--and Monsieur Havard
bent his head. "Well, when I reached the scene of the crime I immediately
thought that we were not face to face with a suicide. A man who wishes to kill
himself, and to kill himself because of money affairs, a man like Thomery, does
not feel the necessity of committing suicide in a little flat rented under a
false name, and in front of a trunk, which you know, do you not, belonged to
Mademoiselle Dollon! One might swear that everything was arranged expressly to
make anyone believe that Thomery had strangled himself, after having stolen the
trunk, for some unknown reason!" "You did not find any kind of clue?" "Yes,
indeed! And you know it as well as I do, for I have no doubt the extraordinary
event has been the gossip of the neighbourhood. On the cover of the trunk we
have once again found an imprint, a very clear impression--the famous imprint of
Jacques Dollon!..." "And you found nothing else?" "Yes, in the dust on the
floor, we found the marks of steps, numerous foot marks: we have made tracings
of them." "My steps, evidently," thought Fandor. But what he said was:

"What, in short, is your view of the general position, Monsieur Havard?" "I am
very much bothered about it. For my part, I think we are once again faced by
another of Jacques Dollon's crimes. This wretch, after having attempted to
assassinate his sister, has learned that we were going to search mademoiselle's
room. He then made arrangements to steal this trunk, by pretending to be a
police inspector, as you know; then he brought the trunk to this flat, examined
its contents thoroughly, and having some special interest in the sugar refiner's
death, he managed to get him to come to the flat, and there assassinated him,
leaving his dead body in front of this trunk, where it was bound to be seen; all
this he did in order to tangle the traces and perplex those on his track...."

"But how do you explain the fact of Jacques Dollon being so simple as to leave
the imprints of his hand everywhere?... Deuce take it, this individual is at
liberty: he reads the papers.... He knows that Monsieur Bertillon is tracing
him!... So great a criminal would certainly be on his guard!" "Of course! Such a
successful criminal as Dollon has shown himself to be, must have resources at
his disposal, which allow him to laugh at the police. He does not trouble to
cover his tracks; it is enough for him that he should escape us." As Fandor
could not suppress a smile, the chief of the detective force added:

"Oh, we shall finish by arresting Dollon, have no fear! So far he has quite
extraordinary luck in his favour, but the luck will turn, and we shall put our
hand on his collar!" "I certainly hope you may. But what are you going to do
now?" The two had stopped on the edge of the pavement, and were talking without
paying any attention to the passers-by who rubbed shoulders with them. The well-
known journalist and the important police official were unrecognised. Monsieur
Havard took Fandor's arm. "Look here, come along with me, Fandor? Just the time
to telephone to a police station, and then I will take you with me to make a
fresh investigation." "Where!" "At Jacques Dollon's studio. I have kept the key
of the house, and I wish to see whether I can find any other rent receipts made
out in the name of Durand. Though I can see how Dollon inveigled Dollon into a
trap, I do not understand how it came about that Thomery paid the rent of that
trap. There is some subtle contrivance of Dollon's here; I want to get to the
bottom of it.... Will you come to rue Norvins?" "I jolly well will!" cried
Fandor. The chief of the detective force telephoned to Headquarters, whilst
Fandor got into communication with _La Capitale_. He sent on a report of the
Thomery case up to that moment. Quitting the police station, the two men hailed
a cab, and were driven to the rue Norvins. *       *       *       *       *

As far as they could tell, the artist's house had not been entered since
Elizabeth Dollon's departure. The neglected garden, with its rank growth of
grass and weeds, gave an added air of melancholy to the deserted house. Monsieur
Havard put the key in the lock of the front door. "Don't you think, Fandor, it
gives one a queer feeling to enter a house where an unaccountable crime has been
committed?" The key grated in the lock, and Monsieur Havard added:

"In spite of oneself, there is the feeling that some terrifying spectre is
lurking within!" "Or a ghost!" said Fandor. And as the door was unlocked and
opened, our journalist asked:

"Where shall we start this domiciliary visit?" "Let us begin with the studio,"
replied Monsieur Havard, mounting to the first story. No sooner had they entered
the room, than a double cry escaped from the two men. "Oh!..." "Great
Heaven!..." In the very middle of the studio, there was the rigid body of a man
hanging. They rushed forward.... "Dead!" was Monsieur Havard's cry. "Horribly
dead!" echoed Fandor. "Shall we never lay hands on those wretches?" Monsieur
Havard stared, horrified, at the hanging corpse. He brought a chair, grasped the
strong sharp knife he always carried about him, and, aided by Fandor, he cut the
rope, laid the hanged man flat on the floor, and proceeded to examine the
miserable remnant of a human being. The face was swollen, gashed, crushed....

"The hands have been dipped in vitriol--they did not want finger prints taken--
it is--it is Jacques Dollon!" Fandor shook his head. "Jacques Dollon? Of course,
it isn't!... If it were Dollon, he would not hang himself here.... Why should he
hang himself?" Monsieur Havard remarked:

"He has not hanged himself. Again the stage has been set!... I could swear the
man had been killed by blows from a hammer and hanged afterwards!... It seems to
me, that if death had been caused through strangulation, there would have been
marks round the neck.... But see, Fandor, the rope has hardly made a mark." "No,
the man was dead when they strung him up." "It is of secondary importance!"
remarked Fandor, who was preoccupied. "You are mistaken: it matters a great
deal! It decidedly looks as if Dollon had accomplices, who wished to be rid of
him." Fandor shook his head. "It is not Dollon! It cannot be Dollon!" "Look at
the vitriolised hands--that was a precaution." "I say, as you did just now: it's
like a set piece--a bit of slag assassins' stage craft." "I say, in Dollon's
house, we have found Dollon at home!" Fandor was not convinced. He felt certain
Dollon had lied in the Depot. "Well, Elizabeth Dollon can settle the question
for us. There may be some physical peculiarity, some mark by which she can
identify her brother's body!" But Fandor was examining the body very carefully.
Suddenly he rose from his stooping posture, exclaiming:

"I know who it is!" "Who?" "Jules! None other than Madame Bourrat's servant,
Jules!... That is to say, an accomplice whom the bandits we are after wanted to
be rid of. He might give them away when brought up for examination. That was why
they managed his escape: they killed him afterwards, because he had served their
turn, and was now an encumbrance." "Your explanation is plausible, Fandor; but
how about the truth of it?" "This proves the truth of it!" cried Fandor,
pointing to a cicatrice on the back of the neck of the murdered man: it was the
clear mark of where an abscess had been. "I am certain I noticed a similar mark
on the neck of Jules. He sat in front of me the other day, and I particularly
noticed this mark. The dead man is Jules. I am certain it is Jules!" Monsieur
Havard was silent. Presently he said:

"If it is Jules ... it must be admitted that we are no further forward!" Fandor
was about to utter a protest, when there was a knock on the studio door.
Startled, the two men looked at each other anxiously. "It can only be one of the
force," murmured Monsieur Havard. "I told them I was coming here with you, and
that they were to send for me if necessary." The two men walked to the door.
Monsieur Havard opened it. There stood a cyclist member of the police force. He
saluted respectfully, and told his chief that he had come with a message from
Michel. "The message?" "That the arrest is successful, chief." "Which?" "That of
the band of Numbers, chief." "Good! Whom have you bagged?" "Almost the whole
lot, chief!" "That is to say?" "Mother Toulouche, Beard, Mimile, otherwise
Emilet, and the Cooper--and a few more whose names are not known." Fandor said,
laughing:

"Not Cranajour, I am certain." "No. Cranajour has escaped," answered the
policeman. Turning to Monsieur Havard, he asked:

"You have no instructions, chief?" "No. Tell me, how did the capture go?"
"Perfectly, chief. They were assembled in Mother Toulouche's store. They went
like lambs." "Good!... Good!" Monsieur Havard gave the policeman some orders.
The cyclist leaped into the saddle and disappeared. "How did you guess that
Cranajour was still at liberty?" asked Monsieur Havard. Fandor smiled. "Good
business! You take me to be more stupid than I am. It is Cranajour's information
which has enabled you to arrest the band of Numbers. Consequently!..."
"Cranajour's information? You are mad, Fandor!... Whatever makes you imagine
that Cranajour belongs to our force?" Fandor looked Monsieur Havard straight in
the eye and said coolly:

"Juve has never told me that he had sent in his resignation!" Monsieur Havard
looked searchingly at our journalist, before remarking:

"Come now! What is this you are telling me? Poor Juve?..." Fandor wished to save
the chief of the detective department from telling useless falsehoods. "Monsieur
Havard! Monsieur Havard! Interrogate the members of the band of Numbers, and
don't trouble about how I got my information ... but, be sure of one thing,
there are dead men of whom I could tell tales, of whose existence I am as well
aware of as you yourself!" As the chief stared at the journalist, looking more
and more astonished, Fandor added:

"And I do not refer to Dollon! I am referring to Juve, to my dear friend Juve,
the king of detectives!" XXIV

AT SAINT LAZARE

"Hop along there! See if you can't hurry up a bit!" The warder opened the door
of Elizabeth's Dollon's cell and pushed in an old woman--a horrid looking
creature. "In with you!" commanded the warder in a harsh tone. "You are to stay
here till to-morrow. We will find another place for you when we get
instructions...."

Poor Elizabeth Dollon stared miserably at this strange companion which Fate, in
the person of a warder, had thrust on her. The old woman stared with no little
curiosity at the pale, sad girl.... Silence fell for a few minutes, then the new
prisoner asked, in a tone of rough familiarity:

"What's your name?" "I call myself Elizabeth!" "Don't know it!... Elizabeth,
who?..." "Elizabeth Dollon...."

The old woman rose from the corner of the mattress she had seated herself on.
"True? You're Elizabeth Dollon?... Well, that's funny! Have you been nabbed
long?..." "You ask if it is long since I was...?" "Nabbed!... Taken!...
Arrested!... Eh?" Elizabeth nodded in the affirmative. It seemed to her that an
infinity of time had passed since her imprisonment at Saint Lazare. "I was
nabbed last night. If you want to know my name, I'm called Mother Toulouche.
They say I'm one of the band of Numbers, and that I receive stolen goods! Lies!
That's well understood!" Elizabeth had no desire to go into such an unsavoury
question. This horrid old woman rather frightened her; but, such had been her
distress and fears since she had been a prisoner, that it was a relief not to be
quite alone; to have even this old creature to speak to was better than solitary
confinement. In her character of old jail-bird, Mother Toulouche made herself
quickly at home. "Moved to-morrow, they say I'm to be! Pity! At bottom you're
not one of the scurvy sort, but you must be here to play spy on me, for all
that!... When do you go out? Are you long for Saint Lago?" Alas, how could
Elizabeth tell? *       *       *       *       *

"I like being a barrister," thought Fandor, as he entered Saint Lazare. "For the
last hour I have felt a different person, much more serious, more sure of
myself, not to say, more eloquent!... I must be eloquent, since I have succeeded
in persuading my friend, Maitre Dubard, to get himself appointed officially as
Mademoiselle Dollon's counsel; then to obtain a permit of communication, and to
hand this same permit over to me, so that his identification papers, safely
tucked away in my portfolio, make of me the most indisputable of Maitres
Dubard!" *       *       *       *       *

Fandor might well congratulate himself! By means of this ruse--his own idea--he
was enabled to see Elizabeth, not in the prison parlour, but in a special cell,
and without a witness. As Fandor crossed the threshold of the sordid building,
he said to himself:

"I am Maitre Dubard, visiting his client, in order to prepare her defence!" He
easily accomplished the necessary formalities, and, at last, he saw himself
being conducted by a morose warder to a little parlour, scantily furnished with
a table and a few stools. "Please be seated, maitre," said the surly fellow.
"I'll fetch your client along!" Fandor put down his portfolio, but remained
standing, anxious, all aquiver at the thought that he was about to see his dear
Elizabeth appear between two warders, just like a common prisoner! "In a moment
she will be here," thought he.... But she must on no account recognise him on
entering! By an exclamation she might betray his identity and complicate things!
Therefore, Fandor feigned to be absorbed in a newspaper he unfolded and raised,
so as to hide his face from the approaching pair. The door opened. "Come now! Go
in!..." growled the warder. "Maitre, when you wish to leave, you have only to
ring." The door fell to, heavily, behind the warder. Fandor made a sharp
movement. He stood revealed. He hurried up to Elizabeth. "Oh, tell me how you
are, Mademoiselle Elizabeth!" he cried. But the girl was struck dumb: she grew
suddenly pale, and made no reply. "Elizabeth! Elizabeth! Will you not give me
your hand even? You do not understand why I am here? I had to see you, speak to
you without a witness ... that's why I have passed myself off as an advocate!"
The startled girl was regaining her self-control. Fandor was gazing at her with
frankly admiring eyes. "Poor Elizabeth! How I have made you suffer!" The poor
girl's eyes filled with tears. "Why have you betrayed me?" she demanded in a
voice trembling with restrained emotion. "Oh, how could you get me arrested?
You, who well know I am not guilty?" "You really believe I have betrayed you?
You actually credited me with that?" These two young people, meeting in a prison
parlour under such tragic circumstances, were hurt and even angry with each
other. Elizabeth Dollon went on:

"Why did you not tell me that you had found on that piece of soap traces of my
brother's finger-marks? Why did you accuse me of having received a visit from
him, when you yourself had proved that he was dead?" Fandor took Elizabeth's two
little hands in his and pressed them long and tenderly. "My dear Elizabeth, when
I engineered this theatrical stroke in the presence of the examining magistrate,
in order to secure your arrest, believe me, I had no time to warn you of what I
meant to do.... Ah, if I could have warned you--but it would have only disturbed
you to no good purpose, besides--your being really taken by surprise was a help
--there could not be any idea of collusion.... Of course, you want the answer to
this riddle? You shall have it--that is why I am here.... Don't you remember,
Elizabeth, that on the evening before the fatal day you told me that I had twice
rung you up on the telephone? And that each time you answered the call you could
not find me at the end of the line?... You cannot imagine what I felt when I
heard you say that! I never telephoned! I never telephoned to the convent! "The
obvious conclusion was, that the individuals who, for some reason, did not wish
to make themselves known, did wish to keep track of you, and to assure
themselves that you were still at the convent, rue de la Glaciere...."

Fandor's voice trembled a little, as he went on:

"And I was at once afraid, my poor child, that these people who were pursuing
you, might be the very same who had got into Madame Bourrat's house, and had
tried to kill you.... Ah, do you not see how greatly it hurt and troubled me to
think that I had taken you to the convent, and had there placed you in security
--as I thought--but where you were far from being safe?" Again Fandor took
Elizabeth's hands in his. "You do understand now, dear child, why I had you
arrested?... I felt you would be safe here.... You see, I could not get your
persecutors imprisoned and so prevent them from getting at you. To imprison you
was the alternative: you are better guarded here than elsewhere." Elizabeth
smiled a little smile when she saw how moved Fandor was. "But," replied she,
"there is the other point! You certainly told me that you were sure my brother
was killed in prison--in his cell!" "Certainly, I did! The assassination of your
brother was premeditated. If the criminals have had accomplices at the Depot,
and such there certainly were, they have been bought over little by little....
The fact of your brother's murder is fresh in the memory of the police, of all,
therefore, a special watch is kept over you. I ascertained that it would be so,
and Fuselier himself assured me of it: there is a warder specially told off to
keep a close guard over you, a safe man, known to be beyond suspicion.... No,
Elizabeth, do believe me, if I was the cause of your horrified surprise the
other day, and then of your imprisonment, I wished to be sure that you were as
safe as it was possible to be; then, freed from such intense anxiety, I felt I
should be at liberty to continue my investigations.... Do say you forgive me!"
All Elizabeth could say was:

"But why not have warned me?... I still can't quite see!..." "Why, because, I
only thought of the plan at the last moment! Also, because I feared you might
not be able to act surprise naturally enough!... It was absolutely--yes,
absolutely necessary--that everyone should take your arrest seriously....
Surely, Elizabeth, you can understand that!" He repeated his plea. "Do, do say
you forgive me, Elizabeth!" The smile returned to Elizabeth's lips: she was much
moved. "Indeed, I do... You are always my very good friend: you think of
everything, and you watch over me as if ..."

Intimidated, blushing hotly, she stopped short, then changed the conversation.
"Do tell me if you have heard anything fresh!" Fandor returned to his normal
self also. He had sworn to himself that he would not tell Elizabeth he loved
her, until he had succeeded in unravelling the tangled skein of the terrible
Dollon affair. "I shall speak," thought he, "when she is once more at peace and
free, when she is out of danger. I do not want her to consent to love me just
because I have devoted myself to her brother's case. Elizabeth shall be my wife,
please God; but only if I deserve her, if I can win her." And Jerome Fandor told
her the story of the famous wicker trunk--but he did not mention Thomery's
death, nor did he speak of the horrible murder of Jules.... What was the use of
saddening Elizabeth, of adding needlessly to her terrors? Instead, he thought it
better to learn what he could from her. "I have not found that famous list!"
said he. "Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Elizabeth. "I was so worried!... Just
imagine that, I found the list after all, and I thought I had lost it! It was in
one of my little handbags. I had put it there to bring to you. Here it is: they
were quite willing to let me keep it!" Fandor eagerly took the paper from
Elizabeth and proceeded to examine it. Yes, it certainly was a page torn from a
note-book of medium size. An unknown hand had traced the following words in bold
writing. The names succeeded one another in the form of a list. _Baroness de
Vibray, April 3. Jacques Dollon._     _Dep.... idem._     _Sonia Danidoff, April
12._     _Barbey-Nanteuil, May 15._     _Gerin...?_     _Madame B...?_
_Thomery, during May._     _Barbey-Nanteuil, end May._

Fandor could not find anything more on the paper. Whilst Elizabeth sat silent,
Fandor reflected:

"Baroness de Vibray, April 3. Jacques Dollon ... these correspond exactly with
the commencement of this mysterious affair: the two first deaths, and the date
of their death.... What does _Dep._ signify? The initials of a name--or--yes,
Dep ... Depot idem--yes, _Depot the same day!_ That's it! _Sonia Danidoff, April
12_ ... the full name, the exact date. _Barbey-Nanteuil, May 15_: the affair of
rue du Quatre Septembre occurred May 20; that's pretty near. Two more names, and
one date which exactly tallies. _Gerin?_... _Madame B_....? Who are they? Why no
date? Ah, Gerin, lawyer of Madame de Vibray, a crime planned, without date,
perhaps because he was not indispensable ... and _Thomery_! Thomery, who died in
the middle of May, as this plan indicates! But, how about the last line?
_Barbey-Nanteuil, end of May?_ Oh, beyond a doubt the bankers were to be victims
of some fresh aggression on the part of the mysterious author of these lines!"
"_Barbey-Nanteuil, end of May!_ We are at the 28th of the month: only three more
days before the sinister date falls due! Are they to be attacked, or is it their
money? How to defend them? How organise a trap for the mice?" Suddenly, Fandor
looked up, saw Elizabeth's anxiety, and said quietly:

"Well, this list agrees in every particular with the description you gave me of
it, and I don't quite see what fresh information we are likely to get from it.
However, will you leave it with me?" Fandor rose. "Ah, there is one point which
has just occurred to me"--Fandor's voice trembled a good deal--"Do you know for
a fact that your brother had bought Thomery shares?" "He had very few, three or
four. I think the Barbey-Nanteuil got them for him." "And your brother had to
pay for them by a certain date?" "Yes." Fandor now felt he must tear himself
away. He was deeply moved. "Elizabeth!... Elizabeth!" he cried. "I swear to you
we shall clear up these dreadful mysteries amidst which we live, and more, you
and I! Only have confidence, I implore you! Grant me a week's grace, less even!"
Fandor pressed Elizabeth's hands as though he could never let them go! Such
little hands, and so dear! It was not a farewell he took--it was a veritable
flight he took from the girl who now meant so much to him! Leaving the prison,
Fandor walked straight ahead, thinking aloud. "It is clear--evident! The Barbey-
Nanteuils have sold Thomery shares to be paid up on a certain date. Thomery was
murdered so that his shares should fall to zero, and so that the Barbey-
Nanteuils should realise enormous sums at their monthly clearance. Next
Saturday, the coffers of the Barbey-Nanteuil bank will be full of gold, and this
same Saturday is the last day of May, the fatal day inscribed on the list. Yes,
this coming Saturday, they will pillage the Barbey-Nanteuil bank!" XXV

A MOUSE TRAP

Jerome Fandor had been ringing Juve's door bell in vain: the great detective was
not at home. "What the deuce is he doing? What has become of him? Never have I
needed his advice as I need it now!... His support, encouragement--what a
comfort they would be!... It is possible he would have dissuaded me against the
attempt--or, he might have joined forces with me! Hang it all! It was a jolly
bad move on Juve's part to make himself scarce at such a critical moment for
me!... It is a long time, too, since I had news of him! Were I not certain that
he has sound reasons for his absence--Juve never acts haphazard--I should be
desperately anxious!" Fandor consulted his watch--four o'clock! He had time
then! He could think over all the dramatic events in which he had been involved
during the past weeks, beginning with the rue Norvins affair, and ending--how,
and when? At last, our journalist arrived before the immense building which
forms the corner of the rue de Clichy. He saw, in front of him, the tall windows
of the flat occupied by Nanteuil: on the ground floor were the bank offices.
"Well," thought Fandor, "I certainly am going to do an unconventional thing. If
my summing up of them is right, these bankers are balanced, calm, cold, without
imagination, and distrusting it in others. I shall have to be eloquent to
convince them, to make them listen to me and get them to do what I want. Will
they show me the door, as though I were an intriguer or a madman?... I shall not
let them do it!... Ah, they will owe me a fine candle if I have the good
luck.... Whether there will be good luck for my venture, and gratitude from the
bankers, remains to be seen.... Here goes!..." *       *       *       *       *

Seated behind their large and important looking writing table, as though judges
behind a judgment seat, Messieurs Barbey and Nanteuil, in their immense
reception office, separated from the rest of the world by a number of padded
doors, had just said to Fandor, who was standing in front of them:

"We are listening to you, monsieur." Fandor had asked to see the bankers, and to
see them only, stating that he would wait if they were engaged. He had been
shown into a handsomely furnished room, then into another, then into a third;
finally, he had been ushered into the office of the partners. He had waited
there for a few minutes alone. He recognised it as the same room in which he had
interviewed Monsieur Barbey a few weeks earlier. Again he saw the same hangings,
the same fine rugs, the same velvet arm-chair of classic design. Then Barbey,
solemn, and Nanteuil, elegant, a rose in his buttonhole, had entered the room,
their manner stiff-starched, showing no surprise, accustomed as they were to
receive visitors of all sorts and kinds: they were polite, but not cordial.
Fandor, accustomed to society as he was, and audacious as he had to be in the
exercise of his profession, was intimidated, for a moment, by the calm
simplicity of the two men--these strictly conventional bankers, to whom he was
about to say such strange things, and make a most unexpected proposition! First
of all, he made excuse on excuse for having disturbed the bankers at their post
time. Then anxiety overcame every consideration of conventional propriety. Full
of persuasive ardour, he went straight to the point. "Messieurs," declared he,
"you are more deeply involved than you might think in the mysterious affairs
occupying the attention of the police at this moment. So far, they have not got
to the bottom of them. I, myself, through the necessities of my profession, and
owing to other circumstances, have been drawn into an investigation, conjointly
with the detective department, an investigation which has had definite results:
it has enabled me to discover clues of the highest importance. I learned, too
late, alas, to prevent the tragedies, that certain persons were the chosen
victims of these mysterious criminals. Madame de Vibray, the Princess Danidoff
were condemned beforehand; the robbery of your gold was carefully arranged. Now
to my point! Messieurs, you yourselves are sentenced: the execution of the
sentence to be carried out three days hence. Do you believe me?" Fandor had
drawn nearer the two bankers: only the immense mahogany writing-table stood
between them! The partners had listened with cold attention: nevertheless, a
slight trembling of Monsieur Barbey's lips betrayed hidden feeling. Noticing
this, Fandor was emboldened to proceed. Monsieur Nanteuil, in a slightly
sneering tone, but with a perfectly correct manner, replied to the ardent young
journalist:

"We are greatly obliged to you, monsieur, for the sympathy you have shown us by
coming to give us information regarding the mysterious assassins, whom the
police are so zealously trying to round up. Believe me, we are accustomed to
take our precautions, seeing that we have the handling of enormous sums of
money. We are none the less grateful to you for your interest in us, and for
your warning." "It is not a question of gratitude," interrupted Fandor sharply.
"We have to deal with very strong opponents. I say 'we' because I have become
more and more personally involved in all these crime-tragedies. Believe me, I
speak from five years' experience as a reporter, who has had to report, on an
average, one crime a day!... Up to now, nothing, absolutely nothing has hindered
the criminals from executing their plans; but, warned in time, we may be able to
thwart them." "But," interrupted Monsieur Barbey, who had grown more and more
serious. "What are you aiming at?" Fandor felt that the decisive moment had
arrived. Bending across the table, his face almost touching the faces of the two
men, he said slowly and distinctly:

"Messieurs, I have asked _La Capitale_ to grant me three days' leave. I have
brought a little travelling bag with me: here it is! Leaving home as I did about
half an hour ago, I consider I have arrived at the end of my journey!... Will
you offer me hospitality for the next forty-eight hours?... I know that you,
Monsieur Nanteuil, live above your offices, whilst Monsieur Barbey goes home
every evening to his place at Saint Germain. I ask you to give up your room to
me, for I am determined not to leave here for an instant!" Fandor, in his
eagerness, had spoken faster and faster, and his heart was beating violently. He
stared fixedly at the two men; he quite expected that his demand would excite
astonishment; that objections would be raised; and he was ready with a crowd of
arguments by which to convince them and carry his point.... But, the surprise
was his, for the bankers did not seem particularly astonished. They consulted
each other with a look. Then, as Barbey opened his mouth to reply, Nanteuil
began to speak, rising politely at the same time. "Monsieur Fandor, your last
statements and remarks are too serious to be passed over lightly. Your offer is
too generous to be rejected without consideration. Will you allow us to retire
for a minute or two: my partner and I will discuss the question." *       *
*       *       *

For about ten minutes Fandor marched up and down the sumptuous room. Then one of
the padded doors opened silently, and Barbey entered more solemn than ever:
Nanteuil was smiling. "Monsieur," said Barbey, in weighty tones, "my partner and
I, in view of the exceptional seriousness of the situation, for your words carry
conviction--have come to a decision: we beg of you to consider yourself our
guest from this moment, and to consider this house as your own!" "And it is
understood, of course, that you dine with us this evening!" added Nanteuil with
friendly graciousness. "Monsieur Barbey will be of the party, and will pass the
night in our company ... and you can count on it, that we shall drink a good
bottle of Burgundy to enable us to await with patience and serenity the
audacious individuals you say we are to expect.... Dear Monsieur Fandor, here
are some illustrated papers with some gay sketches of dear little women to
exercise your patience over, whilst we sign our outgoing letters as fast as
possible...."

XXVI

IN THE TRAP

The servant had retired, leaving the three men to their fruit and wine. His
hosts turned to Fandor in mute interrogation.... But Fandor continued to peel a
superb peach with the utmost coolness: he did not seem disposed to talk. Barbey
broke the silence. "Tell me, now that your first day on guard is ended, and you
have not left us for a moment--have you noticed anything at all suspicious?"
Fandor shook his head. "Nothing whatever." This was not strictly true; for he
had noticed an individual in the bank, occupied in repairing the telephone. He
had made discreet inquiries, and had been told that he was a workman sent by the
State, at the request of the bankers, to see that the lines were in good working
order. This explanation had at first set his mind at rest regarding the comings
and goings of this individual. But, just when he was going in to dinner at seven
o'clock, Fandor had come across the man in the vestibule of the bank making
preparations to depart. It had been a painful surprise for Fandor. He recognised
the man, but could not remember exactly who he was, or where he had seen him....

Was this workman one of the mysterious band of criminals who, he was more and
more convinced, meant to strike a blow at Monsieur Barbey, and his partner,
Nanteuil? If Fandor had had anything to go upon, he would have had the man
shadowed. But he had no sure ground for his suspicions; besides, sent by the
State, the man was most probably what he seemed. As he was working for the
Government, he could easily be traced should such a step be found necessary. But
to make certain that all was as it should be, Fandor had examined the work done
by this individual during the day. There was nothing wrong with it: beyond a
doubt, the man was an expert. Therefore, Fandor had felt justified in saying
that he had noticed nothing suspicious during the day. "So much the worse,"
remarked Monsieur Barbey, with a shrug.... "Probably the individuals who are
threatening us, have been warned of your presence here, and are on their guard.
I rejoice as far as we are concerned; but, as regards the general interest, I
almost regret it: that your trap should prove effective, is what we must wish."
"Have no fear, dear Monsieur Barbey, it will not be laid in vain! Knowing the
cunning, the cleverness of my adversaries, I have not the least doubt they know
I am here; but I also know that the audacity of these criminals is such, that my
presence here would not deter them from making their attempt. They believe
themselves the stronger, but I hope to undeceive them." "What is your plan of
campaign to-night?" asked Monsieur Nanteuil. "Before replying to that, will you
show me all the means of access to the house?" "With the greatest pleasure." The
three men left the dining-room: then went into the vestibule. "Our courtyard
gate is at the far end of the house, on the right," said Nanteuil. "On the left,
there are the Bank offices: they occupy this ground floor. The only entrance to
them is through this vestibule. This door closed, it is impossible to get in."
"Not by the windows looking on to the street?" asked Fandor. "No, those windows
have heavy iron bars before them. To remove them would be difficult--very ... As
to the windows looking on to the garden, they are closed every evening--you can
see for yourself--by strong wooden shutters fastened on the inside." "So the
Bank offices are perfectly protected?" said Fandor. "We believe so. Now, come
upstairs to the floor above!... Here is a large corridor, and that door, on the
right, opens into a library. The two rooms which come next, are my own room and
a dressing-room. The other rooms are unoccupied." "Does your room face the
street or the garden?" asked Fandor. "The garden." "And the windows?" "The
windows?" "Yes. Would it be difficult, or impossible to climb up to them?" "It
would be difficult, but not impossible. No one ever enters the garden. If
absolutely necessary, a ladder could be placed against them, a square of glass
could be cut out, and the fastening could be undone ... but come and see the
room, you can then judge for yourself." Fandor inspected the room most
carefully. The banker was right. It would be comparatively easy to get into the
room by the window; but the other entrances to the room could be easily watched;
they resolved themselves into one door, which opened on to the corridor.
Monsieur Nanteuil's room was lightly furnished: he evidently favoured the modern
method: it was a bare apartment, but it was hygienic. "Ah," said Fandor, "the
bed has its back to the door, and faces the window. Very right. You have
electric light, I see, near the fireplace, and above your bed. Then it is
possible to switch on a bright light at any time.... Valuable, that!" Having
finished a minute inspection of the room, and, to the amusement of the bankers,
having looked under the bed to make sure that no one had hidden himself beneath
it, Fandor declared:

"I am decidedly pleased with this room, and if you see no objection, I wish to
stay here and await the visitors of to-night." "You think of sleeping here
alone?" "Alone! Decidedly, I do! It is pretty certain that these men know every
inch of your flat; and if they are the sort I take them to be, they will make
certain that everything here is as usual before attempting to attack the Bank. I
do not wish them to be frightened off by finding a companion at my side, and I
particularly wish them to mistake me for you...."

"But that is frightfully dangerous, surely?" objected Nanteuil. "Reassure
yourself, monsieur, I do not run any great risk. They won't know I am watching
them; but I shall have this advantage over them--I am on the lookout for the
rascally assassins and robbers, and I do not fear them in the slightest." Fandor
was not going to own that he knew there was danger; but he was keenly set on
running this particular risk, for, by so doing, might he not discover the truth?
When the bankers left him for the night, Fandor again examined every corner of
the room, and all it contained. He tested the electric light switch; he took a
mental photograph of the situation of the pieces of furniture. He got into bed,
half dressed, and lay quietly, grasping his revolver, fully loaded. He switched
off the light, and in that large room, veiled in darkness, he awaited the events
of the night. Noises from the street reached him indistinctly. The silence about
him was menacing: something was going to happen here, something sudden,
unforeseen, perhaps irremediable. Minute by minute, time went by, interminable,
monotonous, casting a soft veil of sleep over the eyes of Fandor. But thoughts
were rising within him: more and more keenly he was realising the horrible
danger he was exposing himself to. Beneath closed eyes his brain was active, his
imagination afire. "Elizabeth Dollon must be avenged," was his persistent
thought. "Consequently, I must run some risks to achieve that!" A definite fear
tormented him. He thought of the curious sleep Elizabeth had fallen victim to in
the boarding-house. "Provided I have not taken some narcotic without knowing
it!... Suppose the villains are going to inject into the room some gas which
would suffocate me, and I should not know I was breathing it in? Suppose I lose
consciousness and slip into death?" But Fandor drew himself together; he
stiffened his will. Do they know I am in this room waiting to entrap them? Do
they think they will find Nanteuil here defenceless? Who was that workman?... I
ought to be able to put a name to that familiar face? How slow, how deadly slow,
the tic-tac, tic-tac, of the timepiece? Centuries passed between the striking of
the hours!... Would it be to-night?... To-morrow night?... Or ...

On the corridor carpet outside the room, a slight rustling sound, continuous,
barely perceptible, caught Fandor's listening ear.... Who was it?... Was it
anyone at all?... Was it imagination? He listened intently ... not a sound
now.... But, yes ... the same rustling sound ... it was nearer--moving along the
wall. Fandor closed his eyes an instant, so vividly did he feel that someone was
looking at him through the wall! Seconds beat by--seconds that might culminate
in a moment of horror--seconds passing steadily by in regular succession,
sinking into nothingness....

Had someone moved? Were there steps by the door?... Fandor thought he heard
strange sounds all around him, in the room itself! His nerves were tensely
strung: he was overwrought. Someone was certainly walking in the corridor!... He
had felt a movement along the wall against which his bed stood! Impossible to
hesitate longer! The door knob, which he could not see in the darkness, must
have moved.... Fandor sensed this movement as surely as though he himself had
placed his hand on the knob.... Yes, the door was going to open!... It was ajar
... it was turning on its hinges--it was open.... Someone was coming in....
Who?... Fandor lay still--he dared not move an eyelid; but in his mind he said:

"Come in, then! Take the trouble to come in!" Thus Fandor, who believed Death
was entering the room, dared to welcome the grim visitor--with a smile! *
*       *       *       *

Nothing was happening.... Fandor's feverish excitement sank down to
depression.... He must have deceived himself--no one was entering the room--
nothing untoward was happening! He had simply imagined the noises outside in the
corridor, for nothing happened--nothing ... and once more he was following the
eternal tic-tac, tic-tac of the timepiece! The head of Fandor's bed was near the
door. He could not, in the dense darkness, fix the point where he supposed the
enemy would find him, and he had the agonising conviction that they were very
much at their ease--that they knew exactly where he was, and were quietly
preparing their attack. But had these unknown assassins entered the room?...
Yes, it was certain--there were men behind him--bending over him with
outstretched hands to strangle him!... He could hear the sound their fingers
made in passing through the air to grip his throat, to squeeze his life out!...
Though he lived a hundred years, never could Fandor forget the agonising thrill
when he sensed that hidden danger! He held his revolver ready to fire. He
thought:

"In whatever way I am attacked, I must not let slip this unique chance to learn
the truth! I must seize the attacker at all costs, and leap to the electric
switch, turn on the light--and I shall be saved! Saved!..." Without a cry,
without a warning sound, without a moment's time to cope with the violence of
the attack, Fandor felt a cloth over his face, strong hands on his throat, a
heavy weight crushing his chest. "I am lost!" flashed through his mind. "I mean
to find out the truth!" his will declared. With all the force of resistant
muscle and will he disengaged himself from the power crushing him to death;
seized an arm by chance, hung on to it, gripped it, threw off the man, ran to
the switch, shouting:

"Help!" Again, Fandor thought he was done for: the switch acted, but no light
flashed forth! They had cut the wire! Men were holding on to him: their grip was
tightening! A voice gave a strangled cry. "Help!" A strange voice! Whose? Fandor
was weakening. His right hand seemed to be caught in a vise which would break
and crush it: it was growing tighter and tighter: it was wrenching his arm, was
dragging him backwards: it would fracture his shoulder blade! Who?... Who?... By
a miraculous effort he freed himself. He leaped away; sprang to the mantelpiece;
seized a pocket electric torch he had placed there--clac--a light flashed
out!... Fandor saw, recognised his attacker!... Ah! The form he had seen before
--a slim figure, clothed in black!... Ah, this murderer, whose face was
concealed by a hooded mask! Fandor shouted at him. "Fantomas! It's you and I,
Fantomas!" But, already, this mysterious bandit, unmasked by the unexpected
light, had rushed on our journalist. The electric torch was extinguished. The
struggle recommenced, fierce, formidable, desperate! Fandor was seized by the
throat in a strangling grip: he was choking! His right arm, so twisted, so
bruised, was powerless--and in that hand, now so deadened and helpless that it
seemed detached from his body, was his revolver. He must shoot, though almost
powerless in the formidable grip of the bandit. He must shoot if he was to be
saved. He managed to pull the trigger. There was a loud report. Fandor felt
himself flung towards the wall. The vise loosed its grip. There was a terrific
din. The window panes were shattered, a heavy piece of furniture was pushed
aside, oscillated, fell with a crash; then a sudden silence; but a silence
broken by gaspings, loud breathings, hoarse sounds, an agonising death rattle.
The dead pause seemed interminable.... Fandor was about to shoot again, when a
voice close to him cried:

"He is escaping!..." Jerome Fandor recognised that voice!... Another voice said:

"We must have a light!" A wax match flamed and flared. By its wavering light
Fandor could distinguish three men in the room.... Their clothes were torn:
there was blood on their faces, they were panting: they stared at one another.
Fandor recognised them instantly. Leaning against the bed, a gash in his cheek,
was Monsieur Barbey. Lying on the floor, apparently half dead, was Monsieur
Nanteuil. Calmly lighting a candle was the telephone workman. He alone seemed
unmoved. Fandor threw down his revolver and, coolly marching to the door, locked
it. Monsieur Barbey followed the journalist with a look. He made a gesture of
discouragement and pointed to the window: its panes were smashed to pieces. "We
are tricked--done!" he said. "The assassin has got away!" But Fandor, with a
shrug, marched up to the window, returned, and said in a matter-of-fact tone:

"It is impossible that Fantomas could have made his escape that way!" The
workman nodded gravely. "Monsieur Fandor," said he, "I am entirely of your
opinion." XXVII

THE IMPRINT

"Monsieur Fandor, I am entirely of your opinion!" Hearing these words, Fandor,
who had regained his self-possession, and was ready to start fighting again if
necessary, looked at the individual who had made this statement--the individual
whose face was oddly familiar. "Who are you?" he asked. The individual smiled
broadly. "Don't you recognise me?" he asked. He removed his wig, threw the
candle light on himself, and smilingly announced his style and title. "Sergeant
Juve, once of the detective force; formerly dead: now amateur policeman!" "You!
You, Juve!" cried Fandor. "And to think I suspected you...."

But the two bankers interrupted at one and the same moment. "What are you doing
here?" Juve smiled. "The art I practise brought me! Since my interest in the
Dollon affair is so keen, I follow it up, I wish to find the secret of it, just
through love of my art. I dabble in it nowadays." "But Juve--how did you get
here?" questioned Fandor. "Ah, ha! If you have made some psychological
discoveries: if reasoning has landed you here, now facts have led me here!...
You know I was shadowing the band of Numbers. You know that in the skin of
Cranajour I was intimate with those rascals. To my astonishment I found that my
wretched companions had dealings with the Barbey-Nanteuil bank, who, of course,
had no suspicion of it! Are you surprised then that I felt it incumbent on me to
visit this bank?... Besides, yesterday, I saw you enter here; but you never came
out again! You had reasons for acting so. I determined to be near you, in case
you needed my help. I therefore passed myself off as a workman come to attend to
the telephone installation. It was easy enough, for I am a good electrician....
Well, when I found that you were preparing to pass the night here, I laid my
plans accordingly. I pretended to leave the premises, but really I hid myself in
the house. Just now, when you called for help, I came to your aid as quickly as
I could, naturally!" "Just as we did!" remarked Monsieur Barbey, looking at his
partner. Monsieur Nanteuil contented himself with a nod. He added:

"Alas, once again that criminal has escaped! Fantomas, since it was Fantomas who
was here, just now, Fantomas has got away!" And Nanteuil pointed to the broken
window by which it would seem the criminal, taking advantage of the noise, had
escaped. But both Fandor and Juve shrugged doubtfully. "You believe then,
Monsieur Nanteuil, that Fantomas has left this room?" questioned our young
journalist. "What the devil do you mean?" asked Nanteuil. Juve demanded. "Which
way did he make his escape?" Nanteuil pointed. "Why that way! By this window ...
where else?... You can see quite well that he has broken the panes!... Why,
look! His hooded cloak has got caught on the window latch!..." Fandor lay back
in an arm-chair. He seemed much amused. He silenced Juve with a gesture, and
turned to Nanteuil. "I can assure, dear Monsieur Nanteuil, that Fantomas has not
left the room by this window!..." "Because?..." "Because this window has been
broken by means of this chair: this chair, which he flung against the panes to
put us on the wrong scent, and make us believe he had escaped that way!... Just
look at this chair! It is still strewn with broken bits of glass ... look, there
is even a little bit stuck into the wood!" "But that proves nothing!... Fantomas
has broken the window panes as best he could, and then made his escape!" "In
that case," insisted Fandor, "dear Monsieur Nanteuil, can you explain how it was
he troubled to remove his cloak, hood and all; and, after that, how is it he has
left no footprints in the flower-beds beneath the window? When day dawns you
will see for yourself that my statement is correct, though I have not verified
it! The flower-beds are too wide, too big, for a man jumping from here, to jump
clear of them! And the earth is soft enough to take and retain the footprints of
a man who leaps down on to them from this height!... Nevertheless, such
footprints are conspicuous by their absence!" Monsieur Barbey seemed overwhelmed
--aghast. "If Fantomas did not escape by the window, how then did he get away?"
he asked. Fandor said in clear, distinct tones:

"Fantomas was not able to escape!..." "But he cannot be in the room?... Where,
then, can he have hidden himself?" In a hard voice, Fandor made answer. "He is
not hidden in the room...."

"You think then that he has hidden himself somewhere in the house?" Speaking in
the same hard, decisive tone, Fandor asserted:

"He is not hidden in the house! In the very height of the struggle, I kept a
strict watch on the direction taken by the man who was doing his utmost to
strangle me. I am positive I had my back against the door when I fired, so that
exit was barred! Neither by door nor window did Fantomas escape!" Fandor's tone
was one of absolute assurance. "If you are certain of that," said Nanteuil, "can
you tell us how Fantomas did escape?" Fandor's reply was to rise from his arm-
chair. He took the candlestick from the table where Juve had placed it and
walked towards a large mirror. He carefully examined his neck. "Very curious!"
said he, in a low voice...: "Now, monsieur, the man who tried to strangle me was
Fantomas--we have seen him.... Well, this man had a wound on his thumb, or, more
probably, he wounded me, anyhow he has left on my collar the mark of his thumb
in blood--you guess what this thumb-mark is?" Simultaneously, Barbey, Nanteuil,
and Juve rushed towards the young journalist.... Fandor showed them a little red
mark, clear cut on the white surface of the collar; it was a finger-print so
characteristic, that the two bankers cried in a trembling voice:

"Again the imprint of Jacques Dollon!" Silence fell--a pregnant silence. The
four men gazed at one another. Fandor soon started whistling a popular air. Juve
smiled: Monsieur Barbey was the first to speak:

"Good Heavens! Do you mean to say that Jacques Dollon was here--in this room!...
It is certain, you say, Monsieur Fandor, that he did not get away either by door
or window--for pity's sake explain the mystery!" But Fandor contented himself
with a smile and a question. "Do you really think, then, that I know it?..."
Nanteuil stamped with impatience. "But hang it all! If you don't know anything,
don't let us waste time! Let us begin the search! Hunt through the house! Search
the garden from end to end!..." Fandor went on--his tone was ironic. "And warn
the police? Well, no, Monsieur Nanteuil, we will not make any search whatever,
you can rely on that!... For the last three months we have been striving and
struggling to solve a maddening mystery: we never could reach a certain solution
of it: we have been vainly pursuing an assassin, who for ever escaped us ... and
now, when for once, we get hold of a definite fact, an indisputable reality, are
we going to risk muddling up the whole business?... Not if I know it!" "What do
you mean?" demanded Monsieur Barbey. "Listen!" replied Fandor: "Some minutes
ago, I was alone in this room; Jacques Dollon entered the room, because I bear
on my neck the imprint of his thumb. Jacques Dollon was Fantomas, because he
declared it himself when he believed he would emerge victorious from the
struggle. Jacques Dollon--Fantomas--has not left this room, either by door or
window. On the other hand, you have entered the room--you Monsieur Barbey, you
Monsieur Nanteuil, and you Juve. Since these individuals have entered the room,
and no one has left it, it necessarily follows that the personage, Jacques
Dollon--Fantomas, must have entered among you, and that he has remained here,
between these four walls." Simultaneously, Barbey and Nanteuil raised protesting
voices: but Juve continued to smile. "Do you believe then?..." But Jerome Fandor
did not allow him to finish. "I do not _think_ anything," said he. "I _know_
that I, Jerome Fandor, am I, and that I am not Jacques Dollon!... Juve knows
that he is Juve, and that he is not Jacques Dollon. You, Monsieur Barbey; you,
Monsieur Nanteuil, you know who you are, and who you are not! None of us can
leave imprints similar to those of Jacques Dollon. But, I also know, that
Jacques Dollon has entered this room, and that he has not left it--this is all
that I know!" To this extraordinary declaration, Monsieur Nanteuil, with an
incredulous shrug of the shoulders, exclaimed:

"This is downright madness, monsieur!" But Juve congratulated Fandor. "That's
logic, my boy! You are going it strong, lad!" Fandor continued. "It follows,
that if Jacques Dollon has not left the room, he must be here in this room. He
must be arrested. In order to arrest him, we must beg Monsieur Havard to come
here as fast as he possibly can! Jacques Dollon is Fantomas, or I should say,
Fantomas is Jacques Dollon. Monsieur Havard will not hesitate to put himself to
any inconvenience in order to effect such a capture! I am going to call him up
at once, messieurs, thanks to this telephone!" And profiting by the bewilderment
of his hearers, Fandor, then and there, telephoned to Police Headquarters; he
spoke to one of the officials, who undertook to inform his chief that he was
wanted at the telephone on most urgent business. A minute or two later, Fandor
was telling Monsieur Havard what had happened. He terminated his narrative thus:

"I myself had locked the door of the room in which the struggle took place. No
one left the room, nor shall anyone leave it before your arrival, I give you my
word of honour on that! Come, post-haste. It is of the utmost urgency. Bring a
locksmith. He must open the great door of the house. He will have to force open
the door of the room in which we now are. I must keep an incessant watch over
this room. I do not see Fantomas--Jacques Dollon--in this room; but in this room
he must inevitably be--he _is_ in it!" Fandor, listening to Monsieur Havard's
answer, repeated it to his companions. "In a very short time, the chief will be
here; in a very short time, messieurs, we shall witness the arrest of Fantomas,
that is, of the most inhuman monster that has ever existed!" "It seems to me you
are going too fast!" remarked Monsieur Barbey. "All is mystery--yet you talk of
making an arrest!" "But what do you consider mysterious now?" asked Fandor,
laughing. "Why, everything! Take one thing: do you know what were the motives of
the different Fantomas-Dollon crimes?" Juve replied to this:

"Oh, as for that, perfectly! The motives are clear as crystal!... Madame de
Vibray was ruined, and really committed suicide because--you will pardon me, I
am sure--because the Bourse transactions you advised were not successful.... She
poisoned herself, and went to Jacques Dollon's studio to die: perhaps she felt
for him a secret attachment! Fate willed it that the assassins should choose
this very evening to make their way into the painter's studio ... by means of
this first corpse they created an alibi for themselves, and prepared the scene
which was bound to mislead justice and make lawyers and police believe in the
murder of Madame de Vibray and the suicide of her murderer.... Unfortunately for
them, Dollon was discovered before the poison they administered had done its
deadly work on him, and Dollon was arrested.... You can imagine the fury, the
distracted state of the guilty! Dollon had seen them--he was going to speak at
the legal interrogation--very well, then--they will kill him--and they do kill
him...."

"But Jacques Dollon lives, since his imprints are found here, there and
everywhere!..." cried Monsieur Barbey. Fandor replied:

"They kill Jacques Dollon, since it has been formally established that Jacques
Dollon was seen dead; and once they have killed Dollon, they think that a dead
man cannot be arrested by the police, and _they accept this dead man as one of
their band_.... He, they decide, shall steal the pearls of Princess
Danidoff!..." "This is raving lunacy!" "All that is pretty clearly proved,
Monsieur Nanteuil!... It is he also who stole the millions in the rue du Quatre
Septembre, a sensational robbery which would have ruined your bank, had not this
issue of bullion been well covered by an insurance: this insurance signified
that you were no losers by this robbery--in fact, owing to an ingenious
combination of insurances, you have actually gained by the robbery! As we are on
this subject, I might add that were I a member of the Band I should propose
restoring to you the vanished ingots--robbers find bullion somewhat difficult to
put into circulation: you might buy them back; then turn them into false coin,
for instance--that would be all profit--for you!..." "I wonder at you--making
such a joke as that!" remarked Nanteuil. "Please wonder at me!... To
continue!... Having carried out their plan successfully, these robbers
remembered something they had forgotten--a compromising paper, or something like
it, which had been left in Elizabeth Dollon's possession. Thereupon, they send
the dead man--Jacques Dollon--to look for it: he attempts to murder his sister:
I arrive just in time to open the windows before she is past all human aid....
Meanwhile a series of cleverly arranged deals on the Bourse are brought off, so
that if Thomery disappeared the Barbey-Nanteuil Bank would rake in important
profits ... in haste the assassins get rid of an accomplice who is in their way
--that duffer of a Jules, the rue Raffet servant, and they send Dollon to kill
Thomery. After that they decide to rob your Bank which is stuffed with gold;
for, were it not for this theft, it would be your Bank, burdened as it is, with
Thomery shares, which would pay out to speculators the differences in value
between past and present prices--which amounts would have to come out of the
money paid in the day before. Messieurs, with regard to this, Thomery's death
did you a great service.... Without his death, which enriched you, you would
have had to settle up your sales by a certain date, and you would have lost more
than you gained at the moment, owing to the sole fact of his disappearance!... I
think you are very grateful to Jacques Dollon because of what he has done for
you." Monsieur Nanteuil, on hearing these last words, rose. He walked up to the
journalist and said, in a voice quivering with some emotion:

"For my part, Monsieur Fandor, I think your way of explaining the Dollon affair
is a very strange way!... You assert that this painter is dead, and you make him
behave as if he were alive!... Besides, I have understood your words! In truth,
what you say is senseless: you make wild statements! You have involved our Bank
in every one of the Dollon crimes!... You have shown us as interested parties in
all these robberies!" Fandor said quietly:

"Nevertheless, it is unquestionably true that you are the gainers by these
crimes: beginning with Madame de Vibray and ending with Thomery. Madame de
Vibray might have brought an action against you for the loss of her fortune,
owing to your risky speculations and bad management. Thomery's murder brought
down his shares with a run, and you found that a most advantageous state of
affairs--you gained by it!... But, of course, this is coincidence, since you are
not Fantomas, since you are not Jacques Dollon, since you cannot imitate the
imprint of his thumb!... I have only said this to show ..." Fandor stopped
short. "Hark!... Someone is coming upstairs! Here is Monsieur Havard!" As the
bankers were hurrying impatiently to the door, Fandor said in a bantering tone:

"Do not stir a step further, I beg of you! Not a step! Let us receive the chief
of the detective force exactly in the position we were, not an hour ago, when we
encountered him whom the chief has now come to arrest!" Barbey and Nanteuil
returned to their former positions. Those in the room could hear voices on the
other side of the door exchanging brief remarks. The lock was being picked.
Monsieur Havard entered and hurried up to the journalist. "Well, my dear Fandor,
I have followed all your instructions to the letter!... Ah! you here, too, Juve!
Well?... Speak! Anything fresh since your extraordinary telephone
communication?... What were you telling me?" "I was saying, Monsieur Havard,
that the assassin had entered this room, and assuredly had not left it--that he
was here!..." "Here?" Monsieur Havard had recognised the bankers at the first
glance.... His question betrayed a certain incredulity which piqued Fandor.
"Here! Yes! That is absolutely so, because it is impossible that he can have
left the room! Besides, you shall convince yourself of that!... Monsieur
Nanteuil, will you do me a small service? Will you draw a plan of the first
floor of your house?" The banker rose and seated himself at his writing-table,
which was placed in a corner of the room. "I am at your disposal." And he began
to trace a plan, a pretty rough one, of the various rooms which made up the
first floor of his house. "Is that what you want?" he asked. Jerome Fandor rose
quickly and went towards Nanteuil. The journalist's nerves must have been out of
order--in a jumpy state, despite his apparent calm, for, in approaching the
writing-table, he suddenly staggered, nearly fell, tried to regain his balance,
and that so clumsily that he upset the contents of a large ink-pot on the
writing-desk....

"Take care!" said Monsieur Nanteuil, who, to save himself from coming into
contact with this inky inundation, threw himself back in his chair, and lifted
his hands above the flood of ink.... The banker repeated:

"Take care!... Here is a fresh catastrophe!..." But he did not finish what he
intended to say! Quick as thought, Fandor steadied himself, and before anyone
could guess his intention he seized the banker's right hand, pushed it forcibly
into the wide-spreading ink, then, immediately after, pressed it on to a sheet
of blotting paper which took the hand's imprint quite clearly.... This imprint
he glanced at but a moment.... Like a flag, he waved it above his head! "_It is
the Jacques Dollon imprint!_" he shouted. "_The hand of Monsieur Nanteuil, whose
characteristics are known in the anthropometric section, has just left the
imprint of--Jacques Dollon!..._"

The journalist's action created a momentary stupour! Juve rushed to him. "Bravo!
Bravo!" he cried. But Monsieur Havard had gone quite pale. He said in a low
voice:

"I don't understand!" Barbey and Nanteuil retained their self-possession! Then
Monsieur Barbey rose. He looked fixedly at his partner. He spoke in a tone of
sad finality:

"I suspected this!... Farewell...."

A shout of horror answered him: he had drawn a sharp dagger from inside his
coat, and had plunged it in his heart up to the hilt! Juve knelt by the fallen
man. Monsieur Havard kept a sharp eye on Nanteuil. "Here, then, is Jacques
Dollon, the dead-alive!... Here is the elusive Fantomas!" said the chief of the
detective force. But the bandit brazened it out as he recoiled before the chief.
"Why do you arrest me because of this imprint?" he demanded. "It is a piece of
juggling on the part of this journalist!... Take a fresh imprint of my hand, my
fingers, my thumb, and you will see whether my hand could possibly leave such an
impression as that put on the blotting pad, by some sleight-of-hand trick of
this much too smart reporter!" He stretched out his arm in the direction of the
blotting pad, as though begging for a fresh trial....

Fandor marched up to Nanteuil. "Useless," said he, in a curt tone. "I have been
watching you!... I know the trick!" Nanteuil stood stock-still, dumb. Fandor
lifted the cuff of Nanteuil's coat, and pointed out to Monsieur Havard, and to
Juve, a sort of thin film of glove-like form. It was fastened to the wrist by an
almost imperceptible piece of elastic. "This is human skin," said Fandor. "Human
skin marvellously preserved by some special process: all its lines and marks are
intact. Can you not guess whence it came? Do you need to be told whose dead body
has supplied this phantom glove?" Monsieur Havard was as white as a sheet. "The
body of Jacques Dollon," he murmured.... "Yes, that is it!..." There was a
moment's intense silence in the room. "How do you imagine this wretch set to
work?" demanded Monsieur Havard. "Simple enough," replied Fandor.... "Fantomas
knows the danger criminals run, owing to the exact science of anthropometry: he
knows that every imprint denounces the assassin: he knows that it is difficult
to do anything without leaving such imprints--and that is why, every time he has
committed a crime, he has taken care to glove his hands in the skin of Jacques
Dollon's hands." Nanteuil, at bay, attempted denial. "You are talking mere
newspaper romance," said he. Fandor looked the banker in the eye. "Fantomas!"
said he. "Do not attempt to deny what is no longer possible to deny!... The
trick is remarkably clever, and you have reason to be proud of your invention.
Perhaps I should never have discovered it, if in this very room, this very
night, you had not been imprudent enough to leave those imprints on my
collar!... No one had left the room, therefore the guilty person was in the room
--of necessity he was: _therefore, it followed, that someone had the hands of
Dollon!..._ But how could this someone have the hands of Dollon?... Of course,
naturally, the idea of these gloves occurred to me!..." Fandor turned to the
chief of the detective force. "Monsieur Havard, Madame de Vibray committed
suicide because she lost her fortune through Barbey-Nanteuil mismanagement--she
might even have been poisoned by them! But that does not matter! Her death might
compromise the Bank: they carried her dead body to Jacques Dollon's studio, and
they tried to poison this painter, in order to put the law off their track. You
know Dollon was saved! He was a dangerous witness. They killed him in his cell,
some warder being accessory to the fact--killed him before his innocence could
be established! Then they took his hands, that they might commit murders with
them!... Dollon is dead, as I have held all along. It is Nanteuil who has
committed the crimes ascribed to the most unfortunate Dollon. These crimes have
profited the Barbey-Nanteuil Bank--as I pointed out just now!" *       *       *
*       *

Whilst Nanteuil stood speechless, whilst Barbey, whom they had lifted to a sofa,
was gasping out his last breath, whilst Juve was giving little nods of approval
to what his dear lad was saying, Fandor was treating Monsieur Havard to a
further version of the affair. "When I telephoned to you I was morally certain
of the approaching arrest. Not a soul quitted the room after the hands of Dollon
had left imprints on my collar and on my neck. Therefore someone had the hands
of Dollon. The finger imprints of all the personages present were known to me--
therefore someone had a method by which he changed his own finger-prints into
those of Dollon.... How was it done? It must be a removable method or means ...
why, of course, it could only be by a pair of gloves that the trick was done ...
of course it must be by means of _a pair of gloves made with the skin of Jacques
Dollon's hands_!... I noticed that Nanteuil kept his hands obstinately behind
his back. I guessed that it was he who had played the part of Dollon to-night,
so I managed to prevent him removing those Dollon gloves, that I might take
their imprint before your eyes--the rest can be guessed, can it not?... The
imprint taken, profiting by the confusion, Nanteuil slipped off the glove which,
as you see, was no thicker than a cigarette when rolled up.... To throw it aside
was risky: he pushed it up his sleeve while pretending to arrange his cuff, and
at the same time to put ink on his ungloved hand and so hide his trick!... Only
I saw it all.... Monsieur Havard, it is not only the false Jacques Dollon I
denounce, for Juve and I fully realised that he was also the elusive Fantomas!
Here is this cloak with hooded mask, which is an irrefutable proof: besides he
himself declared he was Fantomas.... Monsieur Havard, all you have to do now is
seize this man: Juve and I will hand him over to you!" It was a thrilling
moment! Juve and Fandor, in this hour of decisive victory, mutely embraced.
Monsieur Havard advanced with raised hands towards Nanteuil who retreated.
"Fantomas," he commenced, "in the name of the law I arr..."

The word was strangled in his throat!... As he advanced another step, Nanteuil
suddenly sprang backwards, and his hand rested on the moulding of a wooden
panel.... At the same moment, Monsieur Havard, as if hampered by some invisible
obstacle, stretched his length on the floor! Juve and Fandor were about to rush
to his aid ... but while Fandor, in his turn, measured his length on the floor
also, Juve yelled:

"Good lord!... We are caught!... He escapes!..." Whilst the detective made a
frantic effort to move a step--_he seemed nailed to the floor_--Fantomas, quick
as lightning, leaped over the prone body of Monsieur Havard, gained the door,
and banged it to behind him!... They heard a triumphant burst of laughter....
Fantomas was escaping! "This is sorcery!" shouted the chief of the detective
force, in a voice hoarse with rage. "Take your boots off!... Take your boots
off!" yelled Juve, who, with bare feet, was rushing through the house, revolver
in hand, hoping to come up with the banker bandit!... But, when the detective
arrived at the entrance gateway of the house, he found the policemen brought by
Monsieur Havard chatting away quietly ... they had not seen a thing ... the
street was deserted ... in a second Fantomas had disappeared, vanished into thin
air ... he, the elusive one, had got away: once more he had escaped those who
were pursuing him with such keen determination! *       *       *       *
*

"It is very simple," explained Juve to Monsieur Havard and Fandor, who seemed
deprived of speech. "Yes, it is simple enough; I guessed it at once when I saw
you fall, Monsieur Havard, just after Fantomas had pressed the woodwork." "He
pressed an electric button, did he not?" "Yes, Fandor, he established a
current!... The wretch must have placed powerful electric magnets under the
floor ... and the moment he realised that it was impossible to brazen it out any
longer--was on the very point of being arrested--he established the current ...
so we three were nailed to the ground by the attraction exercised by these
electro-magnets on the nails of our shoes--he, Fantomas, was then free to cut
and run for it, whose shoes must certainly have had soles made of some
insulating material...."

Monsieur Havard and Fandor made no answer to this. To have held Fantomas at
their mercy, if only for a minute; to have believed that they were going to lay
hands on the atrocious criminal, at last; to have seen him slip through their
fingers--the thought of this almost brought tears to their eyes: they were in a
state of the deepest despondency. "There's a curse on us!" cried Fandor. "This
time, at any rate, we have nothing to reproach ourselves with! We could not
foresee that!..." Then, to himself in a low tone, he added:

"Poor Elizabeth!... How are we to tell her that we have let her brother's
murderer escape?" XXVIII

COURAGE

"Have some more chicken?" "No, thanks: I am not hungry." "But you should eat all
the same!" "Are you eating anything yourself?" "Faith, I am not!" "Well, then?"
In the private room of the Fat-Pheasant restaurant, where Juve and Fandor were
dining, silence again fell. The two men sat motionless, gazing into space. They
neither wished to eat food nor do anything at all. They were depressed to the
last degree; they felt baffled: they were sick of every mortal thing! All of a
sudden, Fandor burst into tears. Juve, looking at his dear lad in such grief,
bit his lip; his face with wrinkled brow wore a dejected, worried look. An hour
or two previous to that, Fandor, on returning to his flat, had found a black-
edged envelope: the address in Elizabeth Dollon's handwriting. Fandor had opened
it with fast beating heart and trembling hand! For these past days, an evil Fate
seemed relentlessly pursuing them. Now he feared to read of some fresh
catastrophe. He was reassured by the opening lines; but as he read on, and took
in the meaning of Elizabeth's words, Fandor felt as though his heart were
bursting with grief. Elizabeth Dollon had written:

"I seem to be going mad ... yes, I love you!... Yesterday, I should have been
glad to become your wife; but there came by the same post as your letter,
another, which contained terrible revelations, proofs of their truth were given
me!... I have not the right to curse you--or rather I have not the strength to
do it; but never will I marry you, Jerome Fandor, you, Charles Rambert!... "[11]

[Footnote 11: See _Fantomas_ and _The Exploits of Juve_.] It seemed to Fandor
that everything was turning round about him.... He took a few steps, staggering.
The weight of this terrible past, a past in which he was the innocent victim,
but of which he could not clear himself, overwhelmed him! Fandor cried, in a
voice of despair:

"Fantomas! Fantomas has taken his revenge!" And before the astounded portress,
the unhappy young man turned about and fell in a heap on the ground. On the
other hand, shortly after the extraordinary flight of the banker--Nanteuil to
the world in general--but Fantomas to him and Fandor--Juve had received from
Monsieur Annion, the supreme head of the police detective department, who only
manifested himself on sensational occasions, a note sent by pneumatic post:

"_Regret keenly that you revealed your personality in such      ridiculous
circumstances, and that you failed to arrest a great      criminal._"

As Juve read these observations, he clinched his fists: he grew livid with rage!
Dinner was a mere farce to the two friends: they did not dine: they had no
appetite! Juve and Fandor went over and over in their minds the deplorable
events of which, all said and done, they were the victims. They gazed at each
other full of self-pity. They felt they were two derelicts afloat on the immense
sea of indifferent humanity. "The worst suffering," said Fandor, with tears of
misery in his voice, "is the pain of love." "The most painful of wounds," said
Juve bitterly, "is a wound to self-respect!..." These two, men every inch of
them, might have their moments of discouragement, but they were a sporting pair
of the finest quality. "Fandor!" "Juve?" "You are courageous?" "I have courage,
Juve!" "Very well, my lad, let us sponge out the past, and start off afresh in
pursuit of Fantomas!... I tell you the struggle has only begun.... Listen!..."
END