CHAPTER I—AN AIDED ESCAPE

- CHAPTER II—THE BLACK STAR

- CHAPTER III—INTO THE PIT

- CHAPTER IV—ROGUE FOR A DAY

- CHAPTER V—MUGGS ON GUARD

- CHAPTER VI—AN UNPROFITABLE AFTERNOON

- CHAPTER VII—IDENTICAL ORDERS

- CHAPTER VIII—THE POLICE GET A TIP

- CHAPTER IX—“CHICKENS COME HOME TO ROOST”

- CHAPTER X—CAUGHT IN A NET

- CHAPTER XI—CLOSE QUARTERS

- CHAPTER XII—AT THE CHARITY BALL

- CHAPTER XIII—MUGGS—GREAT LITTLE MAN

- CHAPTER XIV—UNEXPECTED NEWS

- CHAPTER XV—THE CHALLENGE

- CHAPTER XVI—A NOCTURNAL VISIT

- CHAPTER XVII—INTERRUPTED CONVERSATION

- CHAPTER XVIII—MYSTERIES

- CHAPTER XIX—SUSPICION

- CHAPTER XX—THE VOICE ON THE WIRE

- CHAPTER XXI—THE END OF THE WIRE

- CHAPTER XXII—ON THE SCENT

- CHAPTER XXXII.—INTO THE VAULT

- CHAPTER XXIV—HOW IT ENDED

- CHAPTER XXV—SHADOWED BY THREE

- CHAPTER XXVI—A MAN OF MYSTERY

- CHAPTER XXVII—IN BLACK STAR’S HANDS

- CHAPTER XXVIII—THE POLICE LAUNCH

- CHAPTER XXIX—BLACK STAR TAKES A TRICK

- CHAPTER XXX—MUGGS IN ACTION

- CHAPTER XXXI—IN THE BANK

- CHAPTER XXXII—A NARROW ESCAPE

- CHAPTER XXXIII—PUZZLED POLICE

- CHAPTER XXXIV—WHAT HAPPENED TO THE CHIEF

- CHAPTER XXXV—AN UNEXPECTED BLOW

- CHAPTER XXXVI—IN CUSTODY

THE BLACK STAR

CHAPTER I—AN AIDED ESCAPE

Winds whistled up the river, and winds whistled down from the hills, and they
met to swirl and gather fury and rattle the city’s millions of windowpanes. They
carried a mixture of sleet and fine snow, the first herald of the winter to
come. In the business district they swung signs madly back and forth, and roared
around the corners of high office buildings, and swept madly against struggling
trolley cars. They poured through the man-made cañons; they dashed out the broad
boulevards—and so they came to the attention of Mr. Roger Verbeck, at about the
hour of midnight, as he turned over in his warm bed and debated whether to rise
and lower the window or take a chance with the rapidly lowering temperature.
“Beastly night!” Verbeck confided to himself, and put his head beneath the
covers. He slept—and suddenly he awakened. A moment before he had been in the
midst of a pleasant dream; now every sense was alert, and his right hand,
creeping softly under the cover, reached the side of the bed and grasped an
automatic pistol that hung in a rack there. From the adjoining room—his
library—there came no flash of an electric torch, no footfall, no sound foreign
to the apartment, nothing to indicate the presence of an intruder. Yet Verbeck
sensed that an intruder was there. He slipped quietly from the bed, shivering a
bit because of the cold wind, put his feet into slippers, and drew on a dressing
gown over his pajamas. Then, his pistol held ready for use in case of emergency,
he started across the bedroom, taking short steps and walking on his toes. A
reflection entered the room from the arc light on the nearest street corner.
This uncertain light was shut off for an instant, and Verbeck whirled quickly,
silently, to find another man slipping up beside him. It was Muggs—a little,
wiry man of uncertain age, who had been in Verbeck’s employ for several years,
valet at times, comrade in arms at times, willing adventurer always. Muggs bent
forward until his lips were close to Verbeck’s ear. “I heard it, too, boss,” he
said. “Somebody in the library!”

Verbeck nodded; they crept nearer the door. Inch by inch, Verbeck pulled aside
one of the curtains, until they could peer into the other room. A gleam from the
corner arc light penetrated the library, too. It revealed the interior of the
room in a sort of semi-gloom, causing elusive shadows that flitted here and
there in such fashion that they scarcely could be distinguished from substance.
Also, it revealed an open window near the fire escape—and it showed the form of
a man standing before Verbeck’s antique desk in a corner. Muggs bent beneath his
master’s arm to see better. He felt Verbeck grip his shoulder, and looked up to
find him indicating the open window. Like a shadow, Muggs, who also held a
weapon in his hand, slipped through the curtains, crept along the wall, and
advanced toward that window to cut off the intruder’s retreat. An instant
Verbeck waited; then he stepped into the room, found the electric switch, and
snapped on the lights, and leveled his automatic. The man before the desk
whirled with a snarl that showed two rows of jagged, uneven, yellow teeth. He
took in the situation at a glance, saw Muggs at the window, and Verbeck at the
door, and knew he had been caught in a trap. His eyes narrowed and flashed; he
bent forward, giving the appearance of a rat at bay, and his hand dropped slowly
toward his hip. “Better not!” There was a certain quality in Verbeck’s voice
that told the burglar the man before him was neither nervous nor afraid, and
would shoot if necessary. The thief’s hands went above his head in token of
surrender, and the belligerent light that had been in his eyes faded. “It
appears,” said Verbeck, “that we have discovered you in a delicate position.”

“Aw, don’t try to be clever! I guess you’ve got me, all right!”

“Rather unceremonious, this call,” Verbeck went on. “Why didn’t you send up your
card from the office?”

“Aw——”

“Be seated, please!”

Still holding his hands above his head, the burglar took the chair Verbeck
indicated. “Now, Muggs——” Verbeck said. Muggs had been waiting for the word. He
sprang away from the window and took the cords from the portières. Working
swiftly, he bound the burglar’s hands behind his back, then fastened them to the
chair. Then he assumed the rôle of guard, and Verbeck lowered his pistol and
walked toward the desk. “I fancy you didn’t find much, my man,” he said. “This
is a bachelor apartment, you know, and there is little of value in the library
unless you seek books or pictures.”

“Aw——”

“If you had entered the dressing room now—— But, of course, if you had done
that, Muggs probably would have filled you full of lead first, and made a
complete investigation afterward. It is better for you that you didn’t enter
there. Why you should crawl into a bachelor’s apartment, when there are so many
pretentious residences where silver and plate are to be found, not to speak of
women’s jewels, is more than I can fathom. You must be an amateur at this sort
of thing. Um! What is this?”

On the desk was a sealed letter addressed to Mr. Roger Verbeck, the address
having been stamped with rubber type. In one corner of the envelope had been
pasted a tiny black star. On the polished surface of the desk other little black
stars had been pasted. There was one also on a vase. There was another on the
glass door of a bookcase. “The Black Star!” Verbeck exclaimed. He turned swiftly
to scrutinize his prisoner, but there was no expression on the man’s face to
denote that he showed interest, and he was looking at the floor. Muggs was
watching the bound thief closely, but his dancing eyes and parted lips showed
that Verbeck’s words had interested him deeply. “So! We are honored by a visit
from the Black Star, Muggs!” Verbeck said. “Think of that! The cleverest crook
the town ever had to worry over—the man who got the famous Smith diamonds and
cracked a safe across the street from police headquarters, who has lifted half
the silver in town and stripped society women of their jewels—and he has paid us
a visit. We must be getting important, Muggs—eh?”

“Yes, sir,” said Muggs. “Well, well! The man every one is looking for and cannot
find, who has been sending naughty notes to the police, telling them how dull
they are. I understand he even tips off what he intends doing, and then does it
under their very noses. Very clever chap—for a crook! Declares all the
detectives in the world can’t catch him! Um! Suppose we see what is in this
letter.”

He grinned at the prisoner and ripped the envelope open. In it was a single
sheet of paper. The letter, too, was printed, and its uneven lines showed that
it had been stamped one letter at a time. It was similar in appearance to the
letters the newspapers declared the police had received. Verbeck read it
swiftly:

Mr. Roger Verbeck: Last night at a certain reception people were   talking of
the Black Star. You made the remark that the Black   Star was not a crook, but a
gang—that the police didn’t catch   him because they had so many cases on which
to work that they   couldn’t give their undivided attention to any particular
one. You declared that any clever man who applied himself to the task   could
capture the Black Star and break up his gang. You boasted   that you could do it
yourself, and easily. To show you how useless it would be for you to pit your
brains   and skill against mine, I am putting this letter on your desk   while
you sleep in an adjoining room, and am leaving my sign on   some of your
belongings. I am even putting a black star in your   bed within a foot of the
spot where you rest your head while you   are sleeping. After this exhibition,
either admit that the Black   Star is clever, or do as you boasted you could
do—catch me. “Read it, Muggs,” said Verbeck, guarding the prisoner himself as
Muggs obeyed. “What do you think of that, eh? Intended us to wake up and find
these things stuck all over the place! Trying to show us how very clever he is,
this naughty Black Star, and we catch him at it. There’ll be joy at police
headquarters over this. Now you just keep your eyes on this gentleman, Muggs,
while I get into my clothes, and then we’ll continue the entertainment.”

Verbeck hurried to the dressing room, leaving Muggs on guard, and dressed as
swiftly as possible. He carried a topcoat and cap to a chair near the door of
the bedroom, and then he hurried over to the bed. The Black Star had done as he
had said. On the head of the bed was one of the little signs, and whoever had
placed it there had put his hand within six inches of Verbeck’s head. The man in
the other room, Verbeck decided, had done that first, then gone into the library
to finish his work. Verbeck hurried back and relieved Muggs. “Go and get into
your clothes,” he ordered, “and then hurry back here. I’ll try to entertain our
guest while you are gone.”

He drew up a chair and sat down, facing the prisoner, and less than six feet
away. He was humming a tune, and there was a smile playing about his lips. Had
the prisoner been well acquainted with Roger Verbeck that smile would have put
him on guard. Verbeck already had formed a plan. He and Muggs understood each
other well, thanks to sundry adventures in which they had participated in the
four corners of the earth, and he knew that Muggs even now was reading the note
he had scrawled hurriedly and left on the dressing table, and would act
accordingly. “The Black Star—well, well!” he exclaimed, grinning at his prisoner
again. “And so you are the clever crook?”

“I’m not saying anything!”

“You decorated the head of my bed with that thing, I suppose?”

“You can suppose all you like.”

“Thanks! Rather surly, aren’t you?”

“You hand me over to the police, and you’ll get yours!” said the prisoner. “Are
you, by any chance, trying to frighten me?”

“I’m giving you fair warning. You hand me over and you won’t live long to gloat
about it!”

Roger Verbeck grinned again and resumed his humming. His eyes never left the
prisoner, but he was thinking deeply. In the first place, the letter from the
Black Star bothered him. The remarks that the Black Star accused him of making
he had made. But the puzzling part of it was that he had made them to half a
dozen friends when there was no stranger near. He had spoken them in a drawing-
room in the presence of Faustina Wendell, his fiancée; Howard Wendell, her
brother, and some others concerning whose integrity there was no question. How,
then, had the Black Star heard of them? The Black Star had terrorized the city
for the past four months. Whenever a master crime was committed a tiny black
star had been found pasted on something at the scene of operations. The police
had been unable to get a clew. Each crime seemed bolder and more daring than the
one before, and more highly successful. The Black Star sent taunting letters to
the newspapers and police, and the public demanded his arrest and imprisonment
with loud voice. His crimes, too, showed a deep knowledge of private matters. It
appeared that the Black Star knew the interior arrangements of residences he
robbed. Sometimes he even knew the combinations of safes—for in two instances a
safe had been opened and looted, and then properly closed again, but with a tiny
black star inside it. He was aware when valuable jewels were taken from safe-
deposit boxes to be worn at some affair; he knew when members of families were
out of the city, or servants absent. He had shown in a thousand ways that he
possessed knowledge of great value to a criminal. Roger Verbeck’s boast had not
been an idle one. He believed sincerely that no crook could be so clever but
what some honest man could match wits with him and win. He believed, too, that
the Black Star did not work alone, but was the leader of a band. Not for an
instant did Verbeck think the man he had taken prisoner was the notorious Black
Star, but it pleased him to let the prisoner believe he did. His first impulse
had been to call the police and hand the man over. But he guessed that such a
course would not insure the capture of the master crook, and that the prisoner
would refuse to talk, take a sentence for burglary, and thus allow the Black
Star and the others to go free. It would be clever, Verbeck decided, to allow
this man to escape, to shadow him, and to learn more. Roger Verbeck had
adventured with Muggs scores of times, and he yearned for an adventure now. Here
was his chance. Besides, the Black Star had issued the challenge. Muggs returned
fully dressed. For an instant the eyes of master and man met, and there flashed
between them an understanding. “Better look at this chap’s bonds, Muggs,”
Verbeck said. “We don’t want him escaping before the police come.”

Muggs bent behind the prisoner’s chair and fumbled with the cord, and when he
arose his eyes met those of Verbeck again, and Verbeck knew that Muggs had
obeyed orders. “Now go down and call the house manager,” he directed, “and I’ll
telephone the police.”

Muggs hurried out into the hall. Verbeck left his chair and stepped back to the
door of the bedroom. “I fancy you’ll be secure for a moment or so,” he told the
prisoner. “You’ll scarcely get away unless you carry that chair with you.”

He backed through the curtains, grasped his topcoat and cap, and crossed the
room on his toes and unlocked the hall door. To cover the sound of the key
turning in the lock, he spoke as if calling a number on the telephone. “Hello!
Police headquarters?” he asked. “This is Roger Verbeck speaking. Hurry up here!
I’ve just caught the Black Star trying to loot my rooms. My old address—yes!”

And while he spoke he opened the door, so that his voice would drown any squeak
the hinges might give; and then he slipped into the hall and hurried to the
front stairs. He dashed down the three flights four steps at a time. The
prisoner had tugged desperately at his bonds and had felt them give. With sudden
hope, he had worked furiously to get free. He was through the window and
descending the fire escape as Verbeck finished the imaginary telephone message
to the police, exulting at what he fondly thought had been his close escape.
CHAPTER II—THE BLACK STAR

Verbeck found Muggs at the corner of the apartment house, standing in the
shadows and trying to shield himself from the stinging sleet and biting cold
wind. “He’s just reaching the ground, boss,” Muggs said. “See him?”

“I see him. Be careful now, Muggs; we don’t want to lose him. Thanks for
understanding and loosening his bonds. There he goes!”

The erstwhile prisoner had reached the ground and was darting through the
shadows toward the alley. Down this he ran for half a block, then crept between
two buildings, and so reached the boulevard near a corner, with Verbeck and
Muggs a hundred feet behind him. It was difficult trailing the man through a
storm of sleet and fine snow, but Verbeck and Muggs had trailed men before,
sometimes for amusement, and at other times through necessity. The man hesitated
at the curb a moment, then struck across the driveway. Verbeck and Muggs
followed. They took opposite sides of the walk and slipped along over the frozen
ground, darting from shadow to shadow, always watching the elusive shadow ahead.
At the street crossings their quarry walked across boldly, and they could not
follow instantly for fear of being detected, but they always picked up their man
again, once they were across. Thus they covered a dozen blocks, and it appeared
that the midnight prowler considered himself safe now. He hurried down a cross
street, his head bent forward against the cold wind that swept up the hill.
Block after block Muggs trailed him, while Verbeck shadowed from the other side
of the street, dodging into dark doorways now and then when he expected his man
to look behind. The quarry stopped at a corner, lighted a cigar, and stood
waiting. Muggs was concealed in a doorway fifty feet behind him; Verbeck was in
another doorway across the street. An owl car came along, and their quarry
boarded it. But Verbeck had been expecting that, and for some time had been
watching a taxicab standing before a drug store on the corner. As the owl car
started up again, Verbeck dashed across the street, and he had the chauffeur out
of the drug store and into the seat before Muggs reached the spot. “Follow that
owl car,” Verbeck directed. “There’s a man on it that we’d like to see when he
gets off.”

“I’m wise,” the chauffeur cried. “Fly cops, eh? Get in!”

The cab lurched along the slippery street, keeping half a block behind the owl
car. Whenever the car stopped, the cab drew up at the curb, and Verbeck put out
his head to watch. But their quarry remained aboard. “If this keeps up we’ll
clear out of town,” said Muggs. “Anxious for action?” Verbeck asked, laughing.
“You may get plenty of it before we are done. Have a bit of patience, Muggs.”

“I’ve got patience, all right, boss—and I’ve got a hunch, too.”

“Let’s have it!” At times Verbeck had a great deal of respect for Muggs’
hunches. “I’ve got a hunch we’d have done better if we’d handed that gent over
to the police.”

“I gave you credit for understanding the situation, Muggs.”

“Oh, I understand what you want to do, all right. It’d be great to clean up this
Black Star and his gang single-handed, hog tie ’em all, then call in the cops
and hand ’em over—especially since he sent you that sassy note—but I’ve got a
hunch we’re going up against a stiff game. This Black Star ain’t no slouch!”

“Afraid?” snarled Verbeck. That touched Muggs on a tender spot, and Verbeck knew
it. Muggs turned deliberately and faced his employer. “If that’s the way you’re
looking at it, boss,” he said, “trot right along and I’ll be behind you. Go the
limit, and I’m in the first seat on the right-hand side. But, all the same, I’ve
got a hunch.”

The taxicab stopped again. Verbeck put his head from the window and immediately
opened the door. Their quarry had left the owl car and was starting down the
dark cross street. Giving a bill to the chauffeur and telling him he need not
wait, Verbeck hurried to the corner, with Muggs at his heels. Shadowing here was
difficult work, for there was unimproved property, and some old estates not well
kept up, where sidewalks were bad and the footing uncertain, and where untrimmed
trees and thick underbrush furnished multitudes of dark spots. Uphill and
downhill, always against the biting cold wind and sleet, their man led them.
Finally he crossed a vacant lot and made directly for an old house far back from
the street in the midst of a grove of trees that now were swaying and snapping
in the storm. “So that’s where the Black Star lives!” Verbeck said. He and Muggs
had small difficulty following their man now, for there was a low hedge behind
which, by stooping, they could make their way unseen. Their man reached the side
of the house and went along it until he came to a door. Beside the door there
was a box on the ground. As Verbeck and Muggs watched, the man they had been
following raised the lid of the box and took something out. “He’s putting on
clothes,” Muggs whispered. His actions could not be observed well, but it did
appear that he was donning an overcoat or a robe of some sort. “And he’s putting
on a mask,” said Muggs. “What’s coming off here?”

“I imagine we are in for an interesting time,” answered Verbeck. “Watch him
now!”

He had stepped up to the door, and they could see him put out his hand. Through
a lull in the storm there came to Verbeck and Muggs the tinkling of a bell, then
a sharp click, and the door flew open and their quarry disappeared inside,
closing the door after him. Verbeck and Muggs hurried around the end of the
hedge and to the house. A few feet from the door was a window. Verbeck had no
more than glanced at it before Muggs was at work. Verbeck never had inquired too
closely into Muggs’ past, but from what he had seen from time to time, he had
reason to believe that Muggs knew a thing or two about crooks’ methods, and now
he had more evidence of it. In an instant almost Muggs was sliding that window
up slowly, inch by inch, making no noise, and carefully pulling aside the
curtains behind it. Another moment, and Verbeck was standing inside the house,
with Muggs beside him. They heard no voices. Step by step they made their way
across the room to the opposite wall, searching for a door. Then they saw a
streak of light that penetrated from an adjoining room, where a door sagged in
its casement, leaving a crack through which a man could see. Verbeck knew this
house. For several years it had been deserted, not kept in repair, the grounds
not kept up. It belonged to an estate in litigation, and could not be sold, and
the heirs had refused to build a more substantial residence for the rental it
might bring in. He was surprised to find it inhabited, and he imagined that the
Black Star and his band were making use of it surreptitiously. But when he
applied his eye to the crack in the door, expecting to see a room almost barren,
filled with dust and cobwebs, two or three boxes, some burning candles—a typical
resort of thugs—he faced a surprise. He was looking into a room that had been
newly decorated and was furnished lavishly. Expensive rugs were on the floor;
pictures adorned the walls. There was a massive library table in the center of
the room, an armchair beside it, books and papers and magazines on it. On one
wall of the room was a small blackboard, with chalk and an eraser in a box
beneath it. Before this blackboard, standing erect, was their quarry—dressed in
a long black robe that covered every portion of his body, even his head being
enveloped in a hood, and over his face a black mask. There was no one else in
the room. The man before the blackboard stood stiffly and silently, like a
soldier at attention. Behind the door, Verbeck and Muggs waited, scarcely daring
to breathe. Then a door on the other side of the lavishly furnished room was
thrown open, and another man came into view. He, too, was dressed in a long
black robe, and had a black mask over his face. But he had a mark that
distinguished him from the other, for on the front of his hood was a black star,
formed of jet, that flashed in the light. CHAPTER III—INTO THE PIT

Instinct and experience told Verbeck that this sight might prove too much for
Muggs and he gripped the smaller man by the arm to indicate that he was to
maintain quiet. It was well he did so, for subsequent proceedings were highly
unusual and mysterious. The Black Star nodded to the other man and stepped
across the room, where there was another small blackboard attached to the wall.
When he stood before it he nodded again, and the other picked up the chalk and
started to write, and thus they conversed, each writing on his blackboard and
erasing after the other had read. “Number Six,” the man wrote. “Countersign?”

“Florida.”

“Report,” wrote the Black Star. “Carried out your instructions, but was caught
by Verbeck and his valet. Escaped when they went to call police.”

It seemed that the Black Star grew taller and straighter as he looked at the
other man, and Verbeck and Muggs could see his eyes glittering through the black
mask. They expected him to roar a rebuke, a denunciation, but he did not. He
faced the blackboard again and wrote rapidly:

“You are a blunderer. We have no use for the man who fails.”

“I did not fail,” the other wrote on the board quickly. “I put a black star on
his bed and scattered others in library. I was putting letter on desk when they
caught me.”

“Did you come straight here?”

“No. I shook them off first. I got away before they raised an uproar. Came on
owl car, got off several blocks back, and cut down the hill.”

The Black Star motioned for him to erase this last, and then walked slowly to
the table. There was a pile of letters on one end of it, and the Black Star
picked up one and read it, shook his head, and put the letter in the pocket of
his robe. He pressed against the end of the table, and a drawer shot open.
Verbeck and Muggs could see that the drawer was half filled with money and
jewels. The Black Star took out some money and threw it on the table. He closed
the drawer and walked back to his blackboard, and picked up the chalk to write
again:

“You will not be safe here for some time. Verbeck or his man might recognize
you. Take that money and catch the first train for Chicago. Return and report
one month from to-night at midnight.”

The other man read and bowed his head. There was no hesitancy in his manner; he
acted like a man who had received orders that he knew he had to carry out. He
went forward and picked up the money, and, with it clutched in one hand, he
backed to the door and lifted the other hand in salute to the Black Star. The
Black Star nodded, and the other backed through the door and closed it. Muggs
hurried across the room to the window to watch, while Verbeck remained gazing
through the crack in the door at the Black Star, who sat down in the armchair
and began inspecting the letters on the table. The minutes passed. Muggs
returned and reported that the other man had put the robe and mask in the box,
and had slipped away through the trees. Still the Black Star sat at the table,
and that for which Verbeck had been waiting did not come to pass—the master
criminal did not remove the mask from his face. Another adventure appealed to
Verbeck now. He decided to face the Black Star in his den. He confided his
intention to Muggs in whispers and gave his orders, and, disregarding Muggs’
mouthings concerning his “hunch,” slipped across the room to the window and let
himself out. He found the robe in the box and quickly put it on, then adjusted
the black mask. Beneath the robe, his hand clutched the butt of his automatic.
Searching the edge of the casement, he found a push button and touched it with
his finger. Inside, a bell tinkled. A few seconds passed, and then there was a
sharp click and the door flew open. Verbeck entered and closed the door after
him. Before him was a long corridor, musty, the air in it rank, dust on walls
and ceiling. It appeared that the entire house had not been renovated, only the
one room. Verbeck slipped along the corridor to where a streak of light entered
it, indicating a door. Holding the pistol ready beneath his robe, he opened the
door and stepped into the room, and stood beside the blackboard as the other man
had done. The Black Star was not there. The seconds seemed hours as he waited,
trying to keep his eyes away from the door behind which he knew Muggs was
watching him, his ears strained to catch the first sound of the master
criminal’s approach. Then the other door opened, and the Black Star appeared and
walked to his station on the other side of the room. He nodded his head, and
Verbeck picked up chalk and eraser and turned to the blackboard. He was playing
a dangerous game, and did not know how soon he would be detected. He felt small
fear, for Muggs was waiting to help him, and he had heard nothing, seen nothing
to indicate that the Black Star had allies in the house. “Number Four,” Verbeck
wrote on the board. “Countersign?”

“Florida,” wrote Verbeck. He turned to find the Black Star’s eyes glittering
straight into his. The flaming jet on the hood seemed to be dancing in derision.
Verbeck wondered whether he had made a mistake, and he soon found out, for the
Black Star turned to the blackboard and wrote rapidly:

“Number Four is a woman, and Florida is not her countersign.”

And then he faced Verbeck again. The crisis had arrived sooner than Verbeck had
expected. The Black Star knew him for an intruder, and knew also that he must
have observed a great deal to be able to don robe and mask and start the
blackboard conversation. The master criminal could be expected to act with
dispatch. Before the Black Star could make a move Verbeck’s robe parted and his
left hand emerged, holding the pistol ready for instant action. With his other
hand he waved toward the armchair, and then he spoke:

“Sit down! And put your hands flat on the table!”

His eyes still glittering into Verbeck’s, the criminal obeyed. Standing at the
end of the table, Verbeck confronted him, scarcely knowing what step to take
next. The man before him did not speak, but those glittering eyes—burning,
malevolent, ominous—seemed to cry out with surprise, hatred, and threats. “So
you are the Black Star?” Verbeck said. “Quite a comedy you play here, eh? Masks
hide faces and blackboards take the place of spoken words. A very clever
crook—you. But I said a clever man could find you, and I say it again. This is
the best proof of it, isn’t it? You challenged me—and I have come. So your man
thought he had escaped, did he? If ever you see him again, tell him that his
bonds were left loose purposely, so that he’d escape and could be shadowed here.
Allow me, sir—Mr. Roger Verbeck, at your service!”

Verbeck raised a hand and tore off his mask, and bowed low in irony, meanwhile
watching his victim, for he did not make the mistake of underestimating the
cleverness of the man before him, and he was alert for tricks. He saw the Black
Star’s hands contract and his arms stiffen, and imagined the master crook
calling down curses on the head of the man who had led enemies to his
stronghold. Then the Black Star spoke—in a low, penetrating voice, almost a
monotone, obviously disguising his real tones. “I suppose you think you are very
clever?” he said. “I don’t advertise my cleverness like some persons, and then
fail to live up to my estimation of myself,” Verbeck replied. “You have done
something no outsider has done before—you have seen the Black Star in his
workshop. That is, indeed, a rare privilege. And, of course, you’ll pay for it
in the end.”

“You think so?” Verbeck asked. “I presume you started out with the intention of
handing me over to your stupid police. The greatest and most difficult thing,
you perhaps thought, would be to locate me. Well, you have located me—and your
task is but begun.”

“Indeed?”

“It takes evidence to convict.”

“Naturally,” said Verbeck. “Suppose I call the police now. How about the robe
and mask you wear, that star, these blackboards, those printed letters identical
with ones that have been received by the police and the newspapers? Evidence?
This room is full of it!”

“But, when you get right down to the point,” said the Black Star, “you’ll want
evidence of theft and burglary, you know.”

“I never heard of a gang yet where some one wouldn’t turn state’s evidence.”

The Black Star chuckled, and through the slits in his mask his eyes seemed to be
dancing with delight. “That is just where my cleverness comes in,” he said. “To
show you how little I fear you, Roger Verbeck, I’ll tell you things no man knows
except myself. I can tell you, for instance—and it is the truth—that the Black
Star does have a band working for him, but that not one of them ever saw his
face or heard his voice.”

“Nonsense.”

“Not nonsense, but the truth. So certain am I as to what is going to happen to
you, Roger Verbeck, that I’ll reveal secrets and show you how useless it would
be to fight me, before you—er—cease to trouble me further. I say no member of my
band ever saw my face or heard my voice, and it is the truth. I say, moreover,
that I never saw the face of one of my band or heard his voice, that I know
nothing of their names or identities, and, whenever a crime is committed, I do
not know which person or group does the work. Can you understand that? Turn
state’s evidence, Mr. Verbeck? Not a man of them knows a thing to tell, except
against himself.”

“Rot!”

“The truth,” said the Black Star. “Attend me closely. I reveal my methods to
you, because you’ll never pass them on. I began my work years ago. I have a
genuine partner, who is not in this city at the present time. When I decided to
invade this town he came here. He rented this old house and fixed up this one
room in it. The furnishings were carted one at a time, and they were unloaded
several blocks away and fetched here at night. When everything was ready, I
came. “My gang? This one man who knows me got the gang together. Every one of
them is an expert in his particular time. Each was eager to work under me, for I
am in a position to insure success and big profits. My organization extends
farther than you dream. Each man was fetched here and taught what to do. Here he
comes to get orders and to report. There is no conversation except on the
blackboard; and masks are always worn. “At the first, these men drew numbers out
of a box, and in addition I gave each a countersign. I issue orders by number,
and they report by number. If I was on the witness stand at this moment and
wanted to betray my men I couldn’t do it. I could only say that a certain crime
was committed by Number One, for instance—but if all were lined up before me I
couldn’t swear they were members of my band, because I’d not know. Do you
understand that, Mr. Roger Verbeck? Very clever, eh? We work together, yet were
we to pass on the street we’d not dream we knew one another. Absolute
protection—you see? Hand me over to the police this minute—if you can—and it
will avail you nothing. No jury would convict on the evidence that could be
presented. And my organization, in a hundred different ways, would come to my
rescue.”

“I thought none of them knew you,” said Verbeck. “That is the truth. You do not
understand everything yet. I have a band of men who do the real work. And I have
an organization that collects knowledge I must have. Every man and woman in that
organization has a very good reason for being loyal to me——”

“Women?”

“Yes,” said the Black Star. “Many women! People in every walk of life. And,
naturally, I have arranged it so that I could harm them, but they never could
harm me. I heard of your foolish boast of last night, didn’t I? How do you
suppose I knew that? And I can tell you the combination of the safe in your
dressing room, Mr. Verbeck, if you are skeptical, and tell you also that there
is nothing in it at the present time that we desire. There is a bundle of stock
certificates and deeds in the upper right-hand pigeonhole, and a score or more
old coins in a drawer at the bottom.”

“How do you know that?” Verbeck demanded. “I know a multitude of things, Mr.
Verbeck. Get this idea in your head—I do not know the names or faces of my real
workers, but I do know the identities of those who gather my information. I know
them, and could punish them—but they do not know me. Tidy little arrangement? I
fancy you’ll not find a flaw in it.”

“You have deluded yourself into thinking it is perfect,” replied Verbeck.
“Suppose one of your crooks is captured while committing a crime, and brings the
police down on you to save himself?”

“He would not. If he kept his mouth closed, the organization would save him. If
he played traitor, the organization would save me and see that he got the limit.
I could convince you if I wished to talk more, but I do not; I must protect the
organization as it protects me. You have pitted your cleverness against mine,
Mr. Verbeck, and you have been successful in your first attempt—you have located
me. And now what are you going to do about it?”

“Suppose I hand you over to the police?”

“Even if you could do that—and I am not admitting it—you’d be laughed at in the
end, and I’d probably conclude by suing you for heavy damages. Believe me when I
say everything has been thought of, and for every attack there is a defense
arranged. Also, to hand me over to the police would be to warn all the others,
and you’d have a difficult time convicting me without their testimony. And there
is another thing——”

The Black Star hesitated. “Say it!” said Verbeck. “I have said that my
organization is far-reaching. If you meddled in my affairs, the chickens might
come home to roost. You are up against something regarding the magnitude of
which you know very little, Mr. Verbeck. I have only just begun my organization
in this city, but already it is broad enough to cause you pain and chagrin, did
I put it to work.”

“I suppose,” said Verbeck, “that you imagine you are going to frighten me by
this lot of pointless talk.”

“You may be a very clever man in some things, Mr. Verbeck, but in this you are
no better than a babe. Did I take the fancy to do so, I could make you one of my
organization, too. But you have gone too far for that—you have discovered too
much.”

“You’d make me join your band of crooks!” exclaimed Verbeck, laughing. “I could
force you to be a loyal and obedient member, believe me, if such was my desire.
You do not realize, sir, the strength of the Black Star and his band. You do not
realize how very little you know. You have heard my voice, that is true, and you
have seen my workshop—but even you, Roger Verbeck, have not seen my face.”

“And what is to prevent me taking a look at it now?”

“This,” said the Black Star. “You are standing at the end of the table with a
pistol in your hand. I am seated, and my hands are on the table before me, so
that you could fill me full of lead before I could get a weapon from beneath my
robe. But the toe of my left shoe, Mr. Verbeck, is resting on a button in the
floor—a button that works a trigger—and you are standing over a cement-lined pit
twelve feet deep. Before you could shoot, my toe would press the button—so! And
down you go, Mr. Verbeck, through the floor and into the pit, and the trapdoor
comes up again—so!—and you are a prisoner in the darkness—you who tried to match
wits with the Black Star!”

It all had happened in a second of time. A section of the floor had swung
downward with a crash, and Roger Verbeck had been dashed to the bottom of the
pit. The one shot he fired went wild, the bullet burying itself in the ceiling.
The trapdoor closed again—and the Black Star, standing at the end of the table
now, threw back his head and laughed uproariously. And the laughter died in his
throat as he sank suddenly to the floor! For Muggs was through the door as
Verbeck shot downward, and the butt of his automatic had crashed against the
Black Star’s head just behind the left ear. CHAPTER IV—ROGUE FOR A DAY

Muggs was a product of the slums, and had known the inside of a prison. Five
years before, Roger Verbeck had picked him up in Paris, at a time when Muggs was
contemplating throwing himself into the Seine, for misery and crime and poor
living had broken his spirit and made existence a nightmare. Verbeck had taught
him that wits can be used for honest purposes, had given him a home, and in
return Muggs, in his gratitude, gave Verbeck what services he could. He was of
the type willing to die to save a benefactor pain. Muggs had not struck the
Black Star a light blow, and when the master crook fell, Muggs knew he would
remain unconscious for some time to come. He was sobbing and calling to Verbeck
in a low voice as he put his foot beneath the table and felt for the button. He
could not find it at first, for in his eagerness he was not methodical. Then he
quieted down, and, getting down on hands and knees, went over the floor, inch by
inch, until he felt a little knob through the rug. His hand went out; he pressed
the knob. At the end of the table appeared a yawning chasm, as a section of the
flooring fell back. Muggs was at its side in an instant. “Boss! Boss!” he
called. “I’m all right, Muggs! Not even scratched, and not stunned. Hurry up and
get me out of here. And watch that chap——”

Muggs was on his feet, looking wildly about the room. There was no ladder, no
rope, nothing that could reach to the bottom of that twelve-foot pit. But there
was a couch in the corner, and Muggs tore off the cover and carried it to the
pit’s edge. “Grab it, while I brace myself, boss,” he directed. “Then climb—I
can hold you.”

And so Verbeck emerged from the pit, bracing his feet against the wall of it and
climbing hand over hand up the couch cover, while Muggs, above, braced his feet
and bent back, gripping the other end of the cloth. Then the trapdoor was closed
again. “Have you killed him?” Verbeck cried when he saw the form of the Black
Star on the floor. “I felt like it, but I thought you’d want him again, boss. I
just gave him a smash behind the ear.”

“Um!”

“Don’t you think we’d better call the police now, boss? I got a hunch——”

“You heard what he said, didn’t you, Muggs? If the police take him in, the
others will discover it, and escape. And he said some other things that have me
guessing. How did he know what I said last night at a private reception in a
private residence, eh? I know none of his crooks was close enough to overhear
me. And how does he know what’s in my safe? He says he even knows the
combination of it, and I don’t doubt him.”

“Then what are we going to do, boss?”

Verbeck had slipped off his robe, and now handed it, together with the mask, to
Muggs. “Put these outside in the box, then hurry back,” he directed. As Muggs
rushed away, Verbeck bent forward and took off the Black Star’s mask. There was
revealed the not unhandsome face of a man about forty-five. Verbeck contemplated
this countenance as he started to remove the Black Star’s robe. It was one he
never had seen before. Despite the Black Star’s words, Verbeck had been half of
a mind that the master crook was some one known to the city in general as a
respectable man, a sort of Jekyll and Hyde. Muggs returned, and the Black Star
was gagged and bound with a curtain that Muggs tore from one of the doorways and
ripped into strips. “And now——” Verbeck began. He did not complete the sentence.
On the wall above his head a bell tinkled. Verbeck and Muggs looked at each
other, the same idea in the mind of each. “Another crook,” Muggs whispered. “No
doubt.”

“What’ll we do?”

Verbeck hesitated a moment. “This is a great chance, Muggs,” he said finally.
“I’ll play the Black Star’s part. I’ll be a crook pro tempore.”

“What kind of a crook is that?”

“The kind I’m going to be, Muggs. Hurry! Get this chap in the other room and
shut the door—and watch.”

As Muggs obeyed, Verbeck put on the Black Star’s robe and mask. The little bell
jangled again. On the wall below it was a button, and this button Verbeck
pushed. He could hear the click as the door was unlocked, and he slipped through
the door by which the Black Star had made his entrance, and found himself in
another dusty, unfurnished room. In a moment he heard some one enter the other
door. He waited for a time, as the Black Star had done, then opened the door and
walked boldly into the room, nodding his head to the other man in robe and mask
and taking his position at the Black Star’s blackboard. “Number Eight,” the
other wrote. “Countersign?”

“Harvard.”

Verbeck did not know, of course, whether it was the proper countersign, but he
had to take the chance. “Report,” he wrote. “Have information you desire.”

The man stepped away from the blackboard, put one hand beneath his robe, and
took out a letter, which he threw on the table. Then he went back to the
blackboard and stood at attention. Verbeck went to the table and picked up the
letter. He ripped it open, watching the other meanwhile, then lowered his eyes
to read. What was written there was startling and very much to the point:

Mrs. Greistman will wear diamonds and rope of pearls at Charity   Ball. They
will be taken from safe-deposit box during the   afternoon. After the ball they
will be kept in safe in Greistman   library. Safe is old one. Library is on
first floor; one door   opens into hall; three windows, one opening on veranda
and   others on side of house and shaded from street lights by vines   and
trees. All servants sleep on second floor, in the rear. Mr.   and Mrs. Greistman
and daughter sleep on same floor, in front,   latter on left side of hall,
parents on right side as you face   rear of house. Daughter subject to insomnia,
especially after   brilliant society events, and often takes sleeping draft.
There it was, full information that indicated the Black Star contemplated
getting the Greistman jewels, reported by means of the organization, no doubt.
The note had been written on a typewriter, and there were no marks on the
envelope. Any active crook might have been able to discover where the members of
the Greistman family slept, and learn where the safe was kept, and how the doors
and windows of the library were located, but only some one in close touch with
the family could know when they anticipated taking the jewels from the safe-
deposit box and where they would be kept the night after the ball. Verbeck found
himself wondering how this information had been obtained and whether the man who
now stood before him in robe and mask had obtained it or was merely a messenger
to carry it to the Black Star. He stepped back to the blackboard and picked up
the chalk again. “Where did you get information?” he wrote. “As you instructed,”
came the written answer. Verbeck could ask no more without betraying himself. He
had no idea regarding the identity of the man before him. It was possible, of
course, for him to call Muggs from the other room and overpower the crook, but
it was doubtful if the man would talk and reveal anything after he discovered he
was not dealing with the Black Star, but with an outsider. And what Verbeck
wanted was accurate knowledge; he would have to be careful not to arouse the
man’s suspicion. “Good!” he wrote on the blackboard. Then he nodded to the man,
as if in dismissal. But the other did not seem ready to go, and acted as if
there was something wanting. “Any orders?” he wrote finally. Verbeck remembered
the pile of letters on the end of the table, and now he went over and inspected
them. They were orders for members of the band, evidently, for on each envelope
a number was stamped. He found the one marked “Eight,” and took out the sheet of
paper it contained. There were the orders the Black Star had prepared for this
man:

At three o’clock in the afternoon there is a committee meeting   of the Browning
Club in a parlor of the second floor of the   National Hotel, at which Miss
Freda Brakeland will be present. Manage to be in the lobby of the hotel after
the meeting, and   meet Miss Brakeland as if by accident. Talk of the Charity
Ball,   and ascertain whether she is to wear the famous Brakeland jewels   at
that affair. Report in usual manner here at ten o’clock at   night; and remember
that no excuse can be accepted for failure. Here was another glimpse of the
Black Star’s work. Verbeck, after a moment’s thought, decided to give the man
his orders and let him go. He would continue to play at being the Black Star and
discover all he could of the master crook’s plans. Perhaps he would be able to
prevent the wholesale theft of valuable jewels; for it appeared that the Black
Star intended a series of crimes following the Charity Ball. This man before him
had orders to report the following night, so there was no object in exciting his
suspicions now. Verbeck would have given a great deal at that moment to have
been able to peer behind the other man’s mask. Who was this man before him who
could be expected to engage Miss Freda Brakeland in conversation without
arousing suspicion? Somebody who belonged in the city, surely, somebody well
known in society, for Freda Brakeland was one of the most exclusive and
unapproachable women of the younger set. Verbeck was annoyed by the Black Star’s
threat that the chickens might come home to roost. He was astounded at the lines
of information gathered for the benefit of the master crook, and a multitude of
questions rushed to his mind, none of which he could answer. He decided to
refrain from calling in the police at present, at least until he discovered
more. And now to Verbeck came another plan he decided to use. He placed the
orders on the end of the table and motioned for the other man to pick them up;
then he hurried to his blackboard and wrote supplementary orders there:

Pass the northwest corner of First Avenue and American Boulevard   at exactly
two o’clock in afternoon on your way to the hotel. Stop on corner, remove hat,
and pretend to brush dust from it. If there is to be any change in your orders,
an envelope will be   slipped to you at that time; otherwise, go ahead as you
have   been directed. It seemed to Verbeck that the other man expressed surprise
in the way his shoulders straightened and his head lifted, and for an instant
Verbeck feared he had attempted too much. But the other only nodded that he
understood, then saluted and backed out of the door. Two minutes later Muggs
came in from the other room and reported that the crook had put robe and mask in
the box outside, and had hurried away. “I’ll get him!” Verbeck said. “He’ll stop
on that corner and give the sign, and then I’ll follow him. I’ll learn who it is
that’s helping the Black Star gather valuable information. We’ve got to stick to
the game now, Muggs, old man!”

“I’d call the police——”

“Not yet! I’m going to play this game myself until it gets too hot for me. The
Black Star challenged me, didn’t he? I’ll have plenty of evidence before I call
in the police.”

“What about the chief crook in the other room? He’s conscious again.”

Verbeck paced the floor for a time, his head bowed, thinking. “I have it!” he
exclaimed at last. “You get out of here, Muggs, and hurry to the garage and get
my car. Stop at the rooms and get that bunch of keys in the right-hand drawer of
my desk——”

“The keys to the old place?”

“Yes. We’ll take the Black Star there, Muggs. Bring the car to the corner
nearest this house, then hurry in and help with him. We’ve got to have it done
before dawn. Hurry! That’s what we’ll do, Muggs! We’ll take the Black Star to
the old house, and there you’ll guard him, while I play master crook in his mask
and robe.”

CHAPTER V—MUGGS ON GUARD

When Muggs had departed Verbeck got up and walked into the other room, where the
Black Star was on the floor in an uncomfortable position. Muggs had left the
window open, and the cold air swept in, bringing sleet and snow with it. It had
been all one with Muggs whether the Black Star froze to death or not. Verbeck
closed the window. He didn’t want to carry the man into the furnished room for
fear some other member of the gang might come to make a report, although now it
was almost three o’clock in the morning. So he threw the door open wide and
rolled in the couch and lifted the Black Star upon it, covering him with two
heavy portières that hung before one of the doors. However, there was no
expression of thanks in the Black Star’s countenance. Verbeck went back into the
other room and closed the door behind him. He took a candle from a shelf in the
corner and lighted it, then made an inspection of the house from bottom to top.
No other room was furnished; there were no arrangements for cooking, no store of
food. The Black Star, then, did not live here, only came here to receive the
members of his gang. That would make it possible for Verbeck to remain away from
the house except at night. He went back to the furnished room and conducted an
investigation there. First he looked at the orders in the envelopes. Nine was
the highest number there, but Verbeck did not know how many envelopes had been
given out that night before his arrival. And the orders were astounding. Only
one had to do with gathering information; the others concerned projected crimes.
Some of them Verbeck could not understand, since they referred to orders given
previously. But others indicated not only crimes, but the manner in which they
were to be committed. They told what to steal and just where to steal it, where
there was danger and where there was none. Verbeck began considering whether he
should give these orders out if any more men called. Taking the place of the
Black Star did not include aiding in crimes, he told himself. He would issue
orders of his own, orders that would keep the members of the band from their
nefarious business, but at the same time would keep them in touch until he could
arrange a wholesale capture. Verbeck fumbled around the end of the table for
several minutes before he found the spring which released the drawer and caused
it to open. As he and Muggs had seen earlier in the night, there was an
abundance of money in the drawer. There were half a score of diamond rings, too,
a pearl necklace, other gems. There was a box of little rubber type and an ink
pad and a small memoranda book. Verbeck opened the book. On the last written
page of it he found something that interested him. At the top was a date—that
very day—and below was a list of numbers, with hours set opposite. The book told
when members of the band were expected to report. Verbeck found that the first
was Number Three, due at nine o’clock that night. And from then until two
o’clock the next morning others were due at stated intervals. The entire band,
it was evident, was to appear for orders within a few hours and comparison of
the book with the printed orders gave Verbeck an inkling of the scheme. The
Black Star had, indeed, planned a staggering blow to the city’s pride; his band
of crooks was to make a specialty of stealing jewels taken from safe-deposit
boxes to be worn at the Charity Ball. For a few hours these valuable jewels
would be protected only by ordinary safes in residences, and during those few
hours the members of the Black Star’s band would strike. Verbeck went in to see
that the Black Star was as comfortable as he could be while bound and gagged,
and then walked over to the window. The storm was dying down; the snow and sleet
had almost ceased to fall, but the cold seemed to be increasing. Returning to
the furnished room, he sat down beside the table to wait. An hour from the time
Muggs had departed the bell tinkled. Verbeck adjusted his mask and touched the
button that opened the door. In a moment Muggs stood beside him. “Here are the
keys, boss,” he said. “I’ve got the car near the mouth of the alley, and the
lights are out. We can take him along the hedge——”

“Good!” Verbeck interrupted. They went inside and lifted the Black Star and
carried him out. Verbeck took off mask and robe and put them on the table, and
one by one blew out the candles. Then he closed the door and helped Muggs carry
the Black Star through the musty hall. Another moment, and they were outside. It
was not particularly a difficult task to carry their man along the hedge and to
the car, and there Verbeck put him in the back and got in beside him, while
Muggs took the wheel. They made their way slowly up the hill and to a well-paved
street, and there Muggs turned on the lights and the car rushed forward through
the night. The old Verbeck place was one of the city’s landmarks. It was closed
now, and had been closed for the greater part of the past five years. It had
been bequeathed Verbeck, the last of his family, by his father, and the young
man had had no desire to repair it and live in it alone with a staff of
servants. He preferred his apartment, and to live in it with no servant except
Muggs. But now, betrothed to wed Faustina Wendell, Verbeck was contemplating
tearing down the old house and erecting a mansion in its place for his bride.
The present house occupied the center of the block. It was surrounded by trees
and tangled underbrush. The walks about it were in poor condition, and nobody
ever approached it. It was to this place that he was taking the Black Star. It
was a long, cold ride. The Black Star groaned and threw his head from side to
side, indicating that he wanted the gag removed, but Verbeck declined to
accommodate him. He was taking no chances with the Black Star. The machine
lurched and skidded along the streets, dashed along boulevards, swung around
corners. Muggs was putting on all possible speed, for the dawn was not far away.
The machine was finally brought to a standstill before the double gates that
opened into the driveway of the old Verbeck place. Verbeck got out and helped
Muggs throw open the gates, and they drove in. There was fuel in the house, and
after they had carried the Black Star in and made him comfortable on a couch
Verbeck built a fire in the large grate in the living room. Then he removed the
man’s gag, and all his bonds except those which held his hands fastened behind
his back. “There, Mr. Black Star!” he said. “It has been an exciting night. You
sent a man to invade my apartment, and in turn I invaded your place of
business—I suppose that is what you’d call it—and made you prisoner, with the
aid of this very good friend of mine. And now you are here—and I’m quite sure
you don’t know just where. And here you’ll remain for the time being, until I
form some plans and put them in operation. You’ll be kept warm, and you’ll have
food. Muggs will guard you. And you’ll be unable to escape.”

“All very clever,” the Black Star retorted. “But you are playing with fire, Mr.
Verbeck, and are liable to be badly scorched.”

“I’ll run the risk of that.”

“Remember, I told you my organization has a long arm. I’m storing all this up
against you.”

“Very kind of you, I’m sure.” He turned to Muggs. “How do you want to work this
thing?” he asked. “Just let him fuss around with his hands tied, boss,” Muggs
said. “I’ll get a strap or some rope from the closet and tie ’em properly. And
if he tries any funny tricks I’ll either shoot him or pound him on the head with
the butt of the gun—’tis immaterial. You can leave it to me, boss.”

And Verbeck knew by the expression of Muggs’ face that he could. CHAPTER VI—AN
UNPROFITABLE AFTERNOON

Verbeck put his car in the garage, returned to his apartment and slept. He
awakened at eleven o’clock, rushed through bath and breakfast, got the car out
again, purchased groceries, and whirled away toward the old house. There he
found Muggs pacing back and forth, with the pistol in his hand, reading the
Black Star a lecture on the evils of a nefarious existence. The Black Star
looked disgusted. “If you’re going to keep me prisoner,” he told Verbeck, “I’d
be obliged if you’d give me another jailer.”

“What’s the matter with Muggs?”

“Barring the fact that he is insane, he may be all right. I don’t want to be
talked to death.”

Verbeck gave him a grin for answer and unpacked the groceries. He had small time
to spend here, and, taking Muggs into a corner, he bade him be sure to guard the
prisoner carefully. “You may not see me again until to-morrow morning, Muggs,”
he said. “I’ll be busy this afternoon, and to-night I’m going to that house
where the Black Star has his headquarters and start some plans going.”

“You’ll be careful, boss?”

“I’ll be careful, Muggs. When it comes time for sleep what are you going to do
here?”

“Stay awake, I guess.”

“There is a vegetable pit in the basement, remember. Get plenty of blankets from
the closet and put them there, and make him climb down and sleep on them. You
can bolt the trapdoor and sleep in peace here before the fire. Careful, now. I’m
off!”

At one o’clock he put the car in the garage again, for he had decided he’d not
use it that afternoon. Precisely at ten minutes of two he was standing at the
corner on which he had directed the crook the night before to fumble with his
hat and await orders. It happened to be a pet day with shoppers. Traffic
officers worked furiously to keep the crossings free of vehicles; uniformed
footmen opened limousine doors and helped well-dressed women across the walks
and into shops. Conversations seemed limited to dry goods and bargains. Verbeck
had not remembered how the corner would be thronged when he gave the Black
Star’s man his orders. The corner now was a jam of human beings. Verbeck crossed
the street and stood beside a stone pillar in front of a show window, from where
he could watch easily. The hour of two arrived, and Verbeck scrutinized every
man who passed the corner. Five minutes passed, and no one had given him the
signal. And then he saw Howard Wendell, the brother of his fiancée, walking
slowly down the street close to the curbing. Verbeck drew back quickly behind
the pillar. If Howard Wendell saw him, he undoubtedly would stop to talk, and
Verbeck did not want to hold a conversation just then. Wendell passed without
seeing him. He stopped for an instant on the corner; he removed his hat, and he
ran one hand around the brim of it as if brushing away dust. Verbeck’s jaw
dropped and his eyes bulged with amazement. The next instant he was chuckling at
the coincidence of it. There was no possibility of Howard Wendell being a member
of the Black Star’s band, of course. The boy accidentally had done what Verbeck
had ordered the crook to do, that was all, and when he came to think of it
Verbeck realized it was a natural thing for any man to do, and wished he had
told the crook to use some other sign. Howard Wendell walked on up the street,
and Verbeck continued his watch. The minutes slipped by, and no other man gave
the sign. A doubt entered Verbeck’s mind. That boast he had made at the
reception—Howard Wendell had heard that, and the Black Star had known of it soon
afterward. And Howard had given the correct sign. “Bosh! Can’t be!” Verbeck
muttered to himself. “I’m a fool to think it for a minute. Why on earth would
Howard be mixed up with a gang of crooks? Even if he wanted to be, how could he
get into a first-order gang like that of the Black Star? They’d not have him!
I’m crazy to think of it!”

He looked at his watch; it was a quarter of three. He decided to go to the hotel
where the unknown crook was to hold conversation with Miss Freda Brakeland.
Perhaps he could decide the matter there, learn the crook’s identity. The lobby
of the hotel was thronged when Verbeck entered. He met men and women he knew,
but managed to keep free from lingering conversation. He wanted to be at liberty
to make a complete investigation. Then he met Faustina Wendell face to face.
“Why, Roger!” she gasped. “Fancy meeting you here! I’ve heard you say you hate
hotel lobbies.”

“I came in to take a peek so I’ll hate them more,” Verbeck replied. “And you?”

“Browning Club meeting, dear.”

“It is over already?”

“A quarter of an hour ago. In fact, we met only to postpone it, for every one is
talking of the Charity Ball to-morrow night.”

“I see,” said Verbeck. He did see—that he had missed his chance to learn the
identity of the crook. “I came down in the electric,” Faustina continued. “Come
along home with me, if you haven’t an engagement.”

He entered the electric and sat beside her as she piloted the car through the
busy streets. She was giving all her attention to the driving, and he did not
attempt conversation. And now that her face was in repose, it seemed to Verbeck
that there was a peculiar expression on it, one that he was not used to seeing.
He would have sworn that the girl beside him, who had promised to be his wife,
was anxious, worried—and that was foreign to her nature. The Wendells had been
wealthy once, but were not now. Mr. Wendell had died two years before, leaving
an estate much smaller than was anticipated. His widow had built a modern
apartment house, and from it derived an income, the Wendells living in one of
the apartments on the first floor. Yet they had enough to maintain their
position in society, and this was an important position, for the Wendells were
an old pioneer family, noted for piety and pride. “You are looking tired,”
Verbeck observed. “You’re not very complimentary, Roger. Perhaps I am a bit
tired, though.”

“Too much Charity Ball?” he asked. “I am not worrying much about that. I intend
going, of course.”

“I should hope so,” Verbeck said. “Would it disappoint you very much if I said
I’d rather not?”

“Nothing you can do will disappoint me,” he said loyally; “but I cannot imagine
a Charity Ball without you in attendance. Are you thinking of remaining away?”

She was looking ahead, and Verbeck imagined that her lips quivered for an
instant. “Is anything the matter?” he asked. “You don’t seem to be yourself to-
day.”

“I—oh, it is nothing, Roger! Perhaps I am a bit nervous. Let us talk of
something else. Here we are at home. You’ll come in, of course?”

He followed her inside, and greeted her mother, who immediately left them alone.
“Now,” Verbeck said, bending toward her, “tell me what is troubling you. I can
see that there is something.”

“Really it is nothing, Roger. Perhaps I am a bit out of sorts. And—what I said
about the ball—forget that, please.”

“But if you do not wish to go——” he said. “Can’t we decide it to-morrow
afternoon, dear? All right—let us leave it until then. Perhaps I’ll be feeling
better.”

“And there is no trouble—nothing I can do to help?” he persisted. “Foolish boy!
I’m just—just tired.”

“Then I’m going to run right away and let you rest. I ought to be downtown,
anyway. I’ll telephone the garage for my car.”

He went to the telephone and sent in his call, then returned to sit beside her.
She was trying hard to smile and act naturally, but Verbeck knew something was
troubling her. But he imagined it might be something connected with the family
finance, and so did not press her for an answer. The car came from the garage,
and Verbeck left, and drove through the streets in a way that defied all traffic
ordinances. He had failed to identify the crook who had received orders to speak
with Miss Freda Brakeland. And something was troubling his fiancée, and Faustina
had refused to confide in him. It had been an unprofitable afternoon. And there
was a busy and dangerous night before him. CHAPTER VII—IDENTICAL ORDERS

Eight o’clock that night found Roger Verbeck in the Black Star’s headquarters,
the room put in order, and the candles burning. He was sitting at the end of the
long table, in robe and mask, and with the little rubber stamps he was busy
writing out orders. All the orders were identical; the ones previously written
by the Black Star had been destroyed. Promptly at nine o’clock the little bell
on the wall tinkled, and Verbeck, shutting the drawer in the table and holding
his automatic in readiness beneath his robe, went to the wall and pressed the
button that opened the door. He hurried from the room, and waited. Presently he
entered again, to find a masked and robed figure standing before the blackboard.
Number and countersign were given, and Verbeck handed the man his orders and a
twenty-dollar bill taken from the drawer in the table. The man bowed and went
out. Nine-thirty brought another man, and the same ceremony was observed. Ten
o’clock brought the member of the band to whom Verbeck had given orders the
night before. After he had written his number and countersign, Verbeck whirled
to the blackboard. “Report,” he wrote. “Browning Club meeting was postponed, and
I missed the person you mentioned,” the other scribbled on the board. “I
followed her, and spoke with her later in a tea room. She will wear her jewels,
including the famous ruby collar.”

Verbeck nodded for the man to erase. Again he found himself wondering at the
identity of this man who could talk so freely to Freda Brakeland. And now he
wrote on the blackboard himself:

“Why did you not carry out orders?”

“Pardon, but I did.”

“You appeared at the corner I mentioned?”

“Yes. Nobody approached me, so I went on as ordered.”

Verbeck wondered whether the man was speaking the truth, whether he had appeared
at the corner, as ordered, and Verbeck had missed him. It was possible, he knew,
because of the throng of shoppers. And, again—— The robe effectually disguised
the man before him, but Verbeck imagined he was taller than Howard Wendell. He
told himself again he was a fool to think that the man before him was his
fiancée’s brother. He had half a notion to order him to remove his mask, but
thought better of it. This man was a crook, could be nothing else. And Verbeck
dared do nothing that would arouse suspicion and endanger the plan he had
formed. “Very well,” he wrote on the board; then went to the table and tossed
the proper envelope toward the other. The man picked it up and read the orders.
It seemed to Verbeck that he appeared startled. He went to the blackboard and
wrote again:

“Are you sure, sir, that these are my orders?”

“Yes,” Verbeck wrote. “Must I carry them out?”

“They must be carried out—to the letter,” wrote Verbeck. The other hesitated a
moment, then wrote rapidly on the board:

“You are unfair, but I am unable to help myself.”

And then, as Verbeck started forward, the other saluted and darted out of the
door, to hurry down the dusty hall. Roger returned to the table. He half wished
he had forced the other man to remove his mask. Ten-thirty o’clock brought a
woman. Verbeck knew she was a woman because he could see her hands, the fingers
covered with rings and the bottom of her skirts showed beneath the robe. Her
writing on the blackboard was unmistakably feminine, too. The Black Star had
said that women belonged to his organization, but Verbeck had not anticipated
meeting one in this house; he had believed they worked on orders transmitted by
others. “Everything arranged,” the woman wrote on the board. “It will be easy.
I’ll get the necklace about three o’clock in the morning and hide it where you
ordered. It may be found there any time after four o’clock.”

Here Verbeck found himself facing something of which he knew nothing, some crime
already outlined by the Black Star. “Disregard all previous orders,” he wrote,
“for the time being. I have new orders for you, and you’ll attend to them first.
Do you understand?”

“Yes,” she wrote. He threw her envelope on the table, and she read the
instructions it contained. She, too, scribbled a protest on the blackboard.
“Isn’t it dangerous?” she wrote. “Carry out your orders. You do not know all the
scheme, remember.”

“I understand. I’ll obey.”

Then she hurried out. At eleven o’clock the bell tinkled again, and Verbeck
admitted another of the band. This one, too, was a woman. She appeared timid,
whereas the first had given every indication of being used to this sort of
thing. Her hand trembled as she wrote her number on the board. Then she gave her
countersign and waited. Evidently she was not working on a case, but had
reported to get orders. Verbeck had no orders ready for her, for her number had
not been on the list he had found in the Black Star’s book. Apparently this was
her first visit, or else the Black Star had not contemplated making use of her
at the present time. He took orders he had printed for one of the others and put
them on the end of the table, motioning for her to pick them up and read. As she
advanced toward the table, Verbeck found that her eyes were upon him, and she
seemed afraid to touch the envelope. She opened it finally, read quickly, and
Verbeck thought she gave a little cry. She staggered backward, but seemed to
regain her composure as he started forward to aid her, and backed away from him.
The sheet of paper fluttered from her hand to the floor. Verbeck stooped and
picked it up, and handed it to her. She did not seem to see it—she was looking
down at Verbeck’s hand. Like a wild thing, she whirled around and rushed back to
the blackboard and seized the chalk. “Where did you get that ring?” she wrote
rapidly. Verbeck answered on his board:

“Why? Do you fancy it?”

“Where did you get it?”

“That is my personal and private business,” he wrote. The ring was a peculiar
signet he had picked up abroad and had worn for years. The woman dropped the
chalk to the floor. She raised one hand as if to put it to her face; she dropped
it again; her eyes burned into Verbeck’s from behind her mask; then she gave a
cry that expressed pain and despair, and hurried through the door and into the
hall. “Well, what do you think of that?” Verbeck mused. “Was she really
frightened or only playing a part? I wonder if the Black Star has been treating
her badly and has made her afraid of him? She seemed awfully interested in my
ring—because she’d never noticed it on the Black Star’s hand, I suppose. If she
should be suspicious—— But she couldn’t do anything if she was!”

The members of the band continued to arrive at intervals, but there were no more
women. Verbeck received their numbers and countersigns, and gave out copies of
the orders. At three o’clock in the morning he decided there were no more to
come. Two women and eight men had been received during the night—ten persons had
walked into the trap he had constructed. Less than twenty-four hours, and the
Black Star and his band would be in the hands of the police. Verbeck felt that
he had planned well. At half past three o’clock he left the house and walked
five blocks to catch an owl car. Half an hour later he was on the boulevard,
approaching the building in which he had his rooms. As he reached the steps of
the apartment house he happened to turn and glance down the street. He saw a man
dodge behind a lamp-post a short distance away. Verbeck stepped into the
vestibule, waited a moment, then stepped out again quickly. Again he saw the man
dodge behind the post. Darting down the steps, Verbeck ran toward the man. A
shadowy form rushed across the driveway and lost itself in the shadows of the
underbrush. Verbeck stopped and retraced his steps. He doubted whether he could
catch the man, and he wasn’t inclined to pursue him at that hour of the morning.
Perhaps it was not a man watching him, but a lurking thief, he thought, and at
the same time he felt that he had been under surveillance. CHAPTER VIII—THE
POLICE GET A TIP

Verbeck arose at noon to face the day that meant the culmination of his plans.
As he bathed and shaved and dressed he kept thinking of the prowler he had seen
a few hours before. Could it be possible, he asked himself, that some of the
Black Star’s band had grown suspicious and would take an active part against
him? Had the Black Star, a prisoner in the old Verbeck house, sent out some
message from his prison calling for rescue? Verbeck was half afraid he had made
some blunder, had overlooked something that would allow the master criminal to
turn the tables and emerge victor from the duel of wits. He telephoned the
garage for his roadster, and hurried out to the old Verbeck place, taking with
him a lineman from the telephone company’s office. The lineman connected the
telephone, which had been out of service. “How is the prisoner?” Verbeck asked
Muggs after the lineman had departed. “Down in the vegetable pit, thinking of
his sins.”

“Fetch him up,” Verbeck directed, and began carrying in the food he had
purchased before running out from town. It was a surly Black Star who entered
the living room, with Muggs at his heels urging him on. He no longer was
handsome because of a two days’ growth of beard and dark circles under his eyes.
He glared at Muggs malevolently as he crossed the room and sat down stiffly on a
divan. “How long,” he demanded of Verbeck, “are you going to keep me prisoner,
with a maniac for jailer?”

“Probably until a late hour to-night. But you need not be confined in the pit
again. I’m going to have Muggs keep you in this room, where it is warm and
comfortable. I want to give you a bit of liberty until to-night.”

“And then?”

“Then I’ll probably hand you over to the police, and you’ll have mighty small
freedom for years to come.”

“Indeed?” the Black Star snarled. “You have arranged everything, have you?
Planned a coup of some sort?”

“Time will tell,” said Verbeck. “And don’t you ever stop to fear for yourself?”

“I haven’t felt particularly afraid at any time.”

“I have warned you that the arm of my organization——”

“Is a long one—I remember,” said Verbeck. “The arm of the law also is long, Mr.
Black Star, and a clever, honest man can outwit a clever crook any time, as I
said once before. You called it a boast, I believe.”

“You are not done yet.”

“Certainly not—but I’ll be done within a few hours.”

Verbeck walked to a corner and beckoned Muggs to him. “I’ll return to-night,
some time after nine o’clock,” he said. “I want you to watch the Black Star
well, Muggs. If he escapes now——”

“Why don’t you call in the police, boss?”

“And spoil everything? I’m going through with this now—I’m going to nab the
Black Star and his gang.”

“Then there’s something big coming off, and I’m not to be in on it?” Muggs
demanded. “Neither am I, Muggs—at the moment it comes off. But we’ll both be in
at the finish—and we’ll be there strong. Just curb your curiosity, Muggs, until
this evening. I’ll explain everything then. Careful, now, and don’t let the
Black Star escape. I fancy you’ve been aggravating him.”

“Aw, boss——”

“He looks it. Haven’t you?”

“I was just reciting a list of his sins, boss.”

“Well, Muggs, recite less and keep your eyes open more. Watch every move he
makes. Don’t you use that telephone, and don’t let the Black Star get near it. I
had it connected so we can use it to-night. Now I’m off!”

He got in the roadster and started back downtown. He stopped before a suburban
drug store and went into a telephone booth. He had not wanted to send this
telephone message from his own apartment nor from the old Verbeck place, for it
might be traced. He called police headquarters, and asked to be connected with
the chief. No, he said, the chief’s secretary wouldn’t do. It was something
about the Black Star. In a moment he heard the chief’s gruff voice. “Listen
carefully,” Verbeck told him, “for I am not going to repeat what I say or answer
questions. This is very important, and if you disregard it you’ll be sorry. Have
your secretary get on the phone extension and take down in shorthand what I am
going to say.”

There was a short wait while the chief made the necessary arrangements, then
Verbeck heard himself commanded to speak. “I have run down and caught the Black
Star,” he said. “I am holding him prisoner now. I cannot hand him over to you
just yet, for, if I did, and the least news of it leaked out, you’d never catch
one of his gang, and, without his gang, you never could convict him. Never mind
how I know it—I am not talking nonsense. You’ve got that?”

An excited voice told him that the chief understood. “Now, listen to this,”
Verbeck went on. “I have arranged for all the Black Star’s band to be at a
certain place at the same time, so you and your men can take them all. Keep
quiet, chief, and don’t ask questions. I want you to send men enough to arrest
them—eight men and two women are in the crowd. They are to be arrested just when
and where I say. If you let as much as one of them escape all my work and yours
probably will have been for nothing. When you get them you’ll find stolen
property on every one. And as soon as I learn you have all of them under arrest
I’ll turn over the Black Star to you, I’ll tell you where and how he met the
members of his gang and gave them orders, and I’ll let you have the inside
workings of one of the smoothest crooks’ schemes ever devised. But if you make
one false move——”

A torrent of words over the wire stopped him for a moment. “No questions, I
said,” he went on. “You have understood so far? Very well! No, I’ll not tell you
who I am or where I am! Very well, if you’ll not listen! I’ll call you up later,
when you’re in a better mood, and explain where you are to make the catch. Good-
by!”

And an irate Roger Verbeck strode from the telephone booth, went out to the
street, and sprang into his car to drive furiously down the thoroughfare. No
excited chief of police could bully him with a lot of mandatory questions, he
told himself. Let them fuss and fume for a time, then they’d listen when he
telephoned. His actions had the desired effect. At police headquarters there was
a spirited debate for five minutes between the chief and his secretary as to
whether the telephone communication had come from some practical joker. The
secretary was inclined to believe that it had. The chief insisted that some
member of the Black Star’s band had turned against him and was engineering his
downfall. Verbeck drove on through the streets until he reached the Wendell
apartment house. Faustina was waiting for him, and again Verbeck noticed that
anxiety was stamped on her face, and now he thought there was a look of fear
also. “Well, here we are,” he said. “And what about the ball?”

“I—I have decided to go,” she said, looking at him peculiarly. “Brother Howard
going, too?”

“Yes—he is going.”

“With any particular young lady?”

“No—alone.”

“Good! Will you be angry, Faustina, if I ask you to go to the ball with Howard?
I cannot explain just now, but—well, I’ll be there late, in time to have a
couple of dances and bring you home. I’m sorry that I cannot explain exactly—it
is something important that will keep me away until late.”

He looked up, to find her staring at him fixedly. “Why—what is the matter?” he
stammered. “I—oh, Roger, it is nothing!”

He sat down beside her and started to take her in his arms, but she drew away
from him. “Why, Faustina——”

“I’m—oh, I’m just a bit nervous, Roger.”

“There seemed to be something troubling you yesterday, and there certainly is
to-day,” he said. “Can’t you confide in me, Faustina? Is there anything
wrong—anything I can do to help?”

“Nothing you can do—to help,” she said. “Then there is something wrong?”

“Don’t ask me, please, Roger. I’m nervous, worried. Just let me rest until to-
night—I’ll try to be all right then. Certainly I’ll go to the ball with
Howard—and expect you later. And now you’ll go, won’t you, Roger? I must lie
down—and rest.”

The puzzled Verbeck walked slowly to the door, Faustina following him. He took
her in his arms and kissed her. She did not return the caress, and she seemed on
the verge of tears. “Don’t worry,” he said softly. “You tell me not to worry.”

“Why, yes. Perhaps whatever is troubling you will cease to trouble. We’ll talk
of it to-night? You’ll let me help you?”

“Yes,” she said, “we’ll talk of it to-night. We must talk of it to-night.”

Verbeck hurried out, got into the car, and started for the business district.
Faustina’s actions and manner worried him, yet his mind was busy with the Black
Star and his affair. Once the Black Star and his band of crooks were handed over
to the police he’d look into Faustina’s trouble, he told himself. Perhaps Howard
was running about too much. Perhaps there was financial trouble in the family.
Whatever it was, he’d smooth things out, he promised. He couldn’t have Faustina
worrying. He drove carefully now through the heavy traffic, and finally stopped
before a hotel. There he entered a public telephone booth, and called police
headquarters again. Once more he got the chief on the wire. “Will you listen
now, and ask no questions?” he demanded. “This is no hoax, so you’d better act
on my tip.”

Then he told the chief where the members of the Black Star’s band could be
captured, and when and how. CHAPTER IX—“CHICKENS COME HOME TO ROOST”

That evening there came the heavy winds again. They came as night descended, to
howl about buildings and shriek through the streets, carrying the merest
suggestion of snow. They swayed the arc lights, rattled signs, and shook
skeletons of trees. And then they settled down to a steady blow from the north,
and soft snow began to fall heavily. And through the steady sheet of snow
gleamed thousands upon thousands of incandescent bulbs at the big hall where the
Charity Ball was to be held. That hall had been built to hold thousands, and its
capacity would be tested this night. On the dancing floor would be women famous
in society, stately matrons, pretty girls enjoying their first social season.
Gowns to dazzle would be shown by hundreds, and jewels—precious and famous
jewels—would flash reflection from myriads of electric lights—jewels taken from
safe-deposit boxes to be worn at this affair, and then to be returned to their
hiding places. The galleries would be filled with spectators; a gigantic
orchestra would please musical ears; in the streets outside, hundreds of
limousines would be waiting for the end. Verbeck was thinking of the scene at
the big hall as he drove his roadster out to the old place again shortly after
ten o’clock that night. He had intended going to the old house earlier, but had
been delayed in carrying out his plans. And now everything was done—there was
nothing more to do except await the appointed hour, call police headquarters,
ascertain that the members of the Black Star’s band were in jail, and then turn
over the Black Star himself. He would have a good excuse to escape the plaudits
of the police and reporters at headquarters—he would have to hurry to the big
hall to dance with his fiancée and escort her to her home. The gates were open,
and Verbeck sent the car through and along the driveway, and brought it to a
stop where it would be shielded by the corner of the house from the swirling
snow. When he entered the living room, the Black Star was sitting on the divan
in the corner, and Muggs was pacing back and forth before him, still preaching
on the merits of an honest existence as compared to a life of thievery.
“Everything is lovely, boss,” he reported to Verbeck. “This gent has been
getting restless, but he hasn’t made a move he shouldn’t. I’ve been hoping he
would—I haven’t taken a pot shot at a man in ages.”

“We’ll have no carnage, Muggs,” said Verbeck, laughing. “We want to hand him
over entire, not in pieces. Give me that pistol, and I’ll watch the gentleman
while you untie his hands and fasten them again in front instead of behind his
back. I’m going to give him a cigar to smoke; he’ll need it to quiet his
nerves.”

Muggs did as he was ordered, and the Black Star accepted the cigar with good
grace and puffed at it with evident enjoyment. “Do we call the police now,
boss?” Muggs asked. “Not yet, Muggs.”

“You and I have done a lot of things, boss, in all corners of the world,” he
said in a whisper, so the Black Star could not hear. “When you feel that you
can’t hold in any longer, you make me stop being a valet, and let me be a
comrade, and we go out after adventure. It’s always been all right. But, about
this thing—— Boss, I told you I had a hunch.”

“I’m afraid your hunch isn’t working well this time, Muggs. The thing has been
accomplished. I’m merely waiting here until the police make a move I requested
them to make, and then we’ll surrender the Black Star. It hasn’t been so very
much of an adventure, after all, has it, old man? There hasn’t been much
excitement—not what we call excitement.”

“I’ll not be satisfied until the police have their hands on him, boss.”

“Neither shall I. But nothing is going to happen, Muggs, to bother us. Keep that
hunch of yours until another time.”

Muggs resumed his guard of the prisoner, and, though he asked Verbeck nothing
concerning the plans he had made, there was a question in the expression of his
face. Verbeck lighted a cigar for himself, and sat down not far from the Black
Star. He looked at his watch. “It is half after ten,” he announced. “Mr. Black
Star, in exactly an hour and a half the police will take into custody some of
your people; eight men and two women, to be exact.”

“Indeed?”

“Exactly,” said Verbeck. “Would you mind telling me how this is to be done? I am
somewhat interested and wholly skeptical.”

“Last night,” said Verbeck, “I assumed your robe and mask, and played at being
the Black Star. I destroyed the orders you had prepared, countermanded all of
which I learned, and issued new orders of my own. There was no hitch in the
arrangement. Not one of them became suspicious as far as I could see.”

“And the orders?” the Black Star asked, interest showing in his face. “Were the
same in each instance,” said Verbeck. “The orders make it possible for the
police to round up the entire gang at one swoop. They’ll be kept separate until
I turn you over and tell all I know. With those facts upon which to work the
detectives will have no trouble getting confessions. As for you—Muggs and I can
swear to enough to convict you, especially after the police have searched that
house where you had your headquarters.”

There was a look of apprehension in the Black Star’s face now, but he did not
pretend to Verbeck that he was alarmed. “May I ask how you expect to catch these
persons?” he asked. “Yes—and I’ll tell you. There was a flaw in your perfect
arrangement, Mr. Black Star. You taught your crooks to work in the dark, and not
ask questions. They have faith in you; and if you ordered one of them to enter
the First National Bank at noon and hold up the first teller to the right, he’d
perhaps do it, believing that his work was only a part of a big scheme and that
he’d escape consequences because of some plan of yours.”

“True,” said the Black Star. “I have issued orders that seemed dangerous, but
were not so when a man knew all the different angles of my plan.”

“Exactly. And so, when I gave orders that seemed dangerous, scarcely an
objection was raised. You want to know how they are to be captured, eh? Here is
a copy of the orders I gave each, Mr. Black Star, listen to it!”

Verbeck pulled a sheet of paper from his pocket and read:

“You will dress as well as possible—evening clothes if you   can—and attend the
Charity Ball. I give you herewith money for   ticket and other expenses. You
will mingle with the crowd on the   dance floor, and, working alone, lift all
the jewels you can. Be   careful of discovery, but do not fear the outcome.
Between ten   o’clock and midnight will be the best time for you to do your
work. “Exactly at midnight you will be in the southwest corner of the   lobby,
where there is a drinking fountain. Before going there   put a bit of red ribbon
on the lapel of your coat. If you see   others wearing this sign, do not speak
to them or give them any   attention. Follow these instructions to the letter,
and our   great plans will be consummated. It is to be a big clean-up, and   all
arrangements have been made.”

Verbeck ceased reading, and looked across at the Black Star. “You understand?”
he asked. “Each one thinks he does not know all the plan, but will be safe if he
carries out his instructions. I gave each a bill out of the drawer in the table,
and I told the women to wear the red ribbon on their shoulders. A score or more
of detectives will be in the neighborhood. At midnight they will take in custody
all who wear the red ribbon. A quick search will disclose stolen property in
their possession. You see? I don’t know whether I’m guilty of a felony or not,
ordering them to steal like that, but I guess I’ll be forgiven, since it is in
such a good cause. “So there goes your perfect arrangement, Mr. Black Star.
Those crooks who have been trusting you will be cursing your name before long.
And you’re going to the penitentiary with them. You can’t be crooked and get
away with it always—no matter how clever you are. And all this, Mr. Black Star,
because you overplayed your part by sending a man to put a letter on my desk.
You needn’t sneer—I’m not meaning to praise myself. There are a thousand men in
town who could have overcome you, given the chance I had.”

“I am not sneering at your egotism,” said the Black Star, apparently without
emotion. “I am sneering at the futility of your plans. I warned you, Roger
Verbeck. I told you that chickens come home to roost. So you’ll send my men and
women to jail, will you? You’ll break up my organization? You strike me a
deathblow like that—and you’ll strike yourself one at the same time.”

“I’ve heard your pointless talk before,” Verbeck said. “But this is not
pointless talk, Roger Verbeck. It is very much to the point. I told you that I
had an organization that gathered information, didn’t I? I said it was separate
and distinct from the band that committed the crimes. You have made the grave
mistake, I fear, of mixing the two bands together—and the consequences will not
be to your liking.”

“Indeed?”

“Yes—indeed! How do you suppose I heard of your boast at that reception a few
nights ago? How do you suppose I know so much about people’s private affairs?
I’ll tell you, Roger Verbeck—I know because men and women of your acquaintance
belong to my organization. You don’t believe that, eh? You will—soon.”

“I scarcely can imagine any of my friends turning crook.”

“Not voluntarily, perhaps. Not because they need money, either—not always.”

“Explain,” Verbeck said. “I’ve told you I have a partner who knows me well—he
and I work together. Some of the organization know him, but not one knows me,
nor has seen my face or heard my voice. If you are skeptical, I’ll outline the
plan in a few words. In Chicago, for instance, we caught a certain youngster of
this city when he was in trouble. He was extricated from his scrape, and the
price of it was that he join my organization. We held something over his head.
Deathly afraid, he carried out my orders; he feared to refuse. Through him we
brought into the organization the girl to whom he was betrothed—threatening to
send her sweetheart to prison unless she joined the band. You see? A sort of
endless-chain affair.”

“I don’t believe it!” Verbeck exclaimed. “You want proof, eh? In ten minutes,
Roger Verbeck, you’ll be giving me my liberty, and you’ll be moving heaven and
earth, with me beside you, trying to prevent the capture of those people at the
Charity Ball. You know who told me of your boast at that reception? He told me
because he admires your native cleverness—begged me to stop everything and leave
town, for, he said, if you started out to get me you’d do it.”

“He was a sensible man, and you should have taken his advice,” said Verbeck. “I
am telling you the truth, Verbeck. The man who told me was Howard Wendell, the
brother of the girl you expect to marry.”

“You lie!” Verbeck cried, springing from his chair. Muggs snarled, and stepped
forward, ready for a fray, but Verbeck motioned him back. “I do not lie,” said
the Black Star. “I told you to beware, that the chickens might come home to
roost. Two months ago Howard Wendell was in Chicago on some business for his
uncle. We knew him—we wanted him. A man already a member of the organization saw
to it that Howard Wendell went the pace for a few days. He is but a boy, we’ll
say—he was easily led. He woke up one morning to find that he had gambled away
three thousand dollars of his uncle’s money. He was almost insane because of
what he had done. His friend took him to my partner; my partner gave him the
money.”

“But that——”

“Wait! In return he gave my partner a check drawn on a bank in this city. Of
course it was a forged check. Oh, he did not intend it as deceit! He said the
check was worthless. My partner laughed and said he knew it, but that he would
keep it until the boy could pay—if he never paid, it would be all right. My
partner, you see, owned the gambling house where the money was lost. You begin
to understand?”

Verbeck still stood before him, hands clenched. “But the next day he was
informed that the check would be presented, would be returned, and that he would
be arrested for having written it—unless he did as he was ordered. That is how
Howard Wendell became a member of our organization.”

“You beat!” Verbeck cried. “Don’t beat me up yet—please,” sneered the Black
Star. “If you stop to do that you’ll suffer considerable anguish later. I am not
done—there are more chickens coming home to roost. What numbers did the men
have, those to whom you gave orders?”

Fearing, Verbeck told him. “So? Howard Wendell is one of them, Verbeck. He is
the one who brought you the letter that first night concerning the Greistman
jewels—remember? He’ll be one for the police to nab to-night. He must have been
surprised to get orders like that—he understood he was to do nothing except
gather information.”

Verbeck felt that the Black Star was speaking the truth. Howard had objected to
the orders—had said that they were unfair to him, but that he was unable to help
himself. It had been possible for him to tell the Black Star of Verbeck’s boast.
He had given the sign that afternoon before seeking a talk with Freda Brakeland.
And the police would capture Howard Wendell through Verbeck’s planning, capture
him with stolen jewels in his possession. “And the women?” the Black Star asked.
“Tell me quickly! What numbers did they have?”

Verbeck told him. “The first is one of the cleverest in the organization,” said
the master crook. “She is an experienced thief. But the second—small wonder you
did not find her number in the book! She is a new one. That was her first visit,
and I had ordered it some days before. She was brought into the organization
through her love for another, a member of her family. So she’ll be caught, too,
eh? And do you know her identity, Roger Verbeck? Do you know the woman you are
handing over to the police through meddling with my affairs? I’ll tell
you—gladly: She is Miss Faustina Wendell—your fiancée!”

CHAPTER X—CAUGHT IN A NET

Silence followed the announcement of the Black Star—silence for a moment, during
which Muggs watched his master and waited for the sign that he was to choke the
man on the divan into insensibility for daring to say such a thing. But the sign
was not given. Suddenly Roger Verbeck felt sick at heart. The Black Star’s tone,
his bearing, the expression in his face told that he spoke the truth. And
Verbeck knew enough to confirm it. Faustina had been acting in a peculiar
manner. And that second woman who had called on him in the Black Star’s
headquarters—how timid she had appeared, how afraid! She had reeled when she
read her orders. She had demanded to know where Verbeck got the ring he was
wearing. And that very afternoon, when he met her at her home—her words had been
mysterious, her actions out of the ordinary. “So you see how it is,” the Black
Star was saying. “Do you want to save her, save her brother also? Then release
me, and I’ll help—for I must save those friends of mine. I’m as much in the dark
regarding them as you, for I’ve never seen any of their faces, remember. You
realize what will happen if they are caught, don’t you? There could be no escape
from the penitentiary for any of them. And there are things to be found in my
headquarters—notes in Faustina Wendell’s handwriting, for instance, notes giving
information——”

He stopped at the look that came into Verbeck’s face. “And you think I’ll let
you go now?” Verbeck demanded. “Why, I’ll fight you more than ever now! You’ve
made a cat’s-paw of that boy; you’ve dragged the sweetest and most innocent girl
in the world into your filthy scheme.”

“The prosecuting attorney won’t consider her innocent when he reads those
notes.”

“You’d have me let you go—then you’d try to drag _me_ into the mess to save my
intended wife! And, through me, others—and so on! It’s fight you and beat you
now, or surrender to you like a coward, and let you go ahead with your nefarious
plans. I’ll take the chance, Mr. Black Star!”

Verbeck looked at his watch; it was a quarter of eleven. He whirled to face
Muggs. “Guard this crook!” he cried. “Guard him well. Shoot him if he tries to
escape!”

“What are you going to do, boss?”

“I’m going to play the game out to the end. I’m going to the ball and save
Faustina Wendell and her brother—and I’m going to see that the police get the
others, and then this man here. That’s all I have to do—get Faustina and Howard
away in time. This crook’s clever scheme has another angle—nobody can swear the
Wendells are mixed up in this. That’s what I have to do—separate the crooks from
the innocent victims. Watch that man!”

Muggs screeched at him. The Black Star tried to tell him something. But Roger
Verbeck had dashed from the house and toward his machine. He was almost sobbing,
and fear gripped at his heart. The chickens had come home to roost! No wonder
Faustina had acted so peculiarly, small wonder she had shown anxiety! And she
was in danger. He had ordered her to steal—perhaps her love and fear for her
brother would lead her to do so. She might be caught in the act—Faustina
Wendell, proud daughter of one of the pioneer families, caught stealing jewels!
And his ring—she had recognized that! Great Heaven! Did she think he was the
Black Star? Did she imagine he had played on her love to make her a member of a
band of thieves? What might she not suspect, when she had seen that ring? She
would remember that he had led a sort of wild life in the ends of the earth,
never showing a tendency to settle down until he had fallen in love with her.
She might pile up the little things until she had a mound of evidence—women do
such things. She might doubt his manhood, really believe he was the master
crook, brutal enough to endanger the girl he professed to love and her brother.
Had Howard Wendell noticed that ring, too? Had Howard been the midnight prowler
waiting on the boulevard to see what time Verbeck reached home? He was in the
car, out of the yard, rushing like the wind down the street, not caring whether
the machine skidded perilously through the snow. It was almost eleven o’clock;
he had ample time, more than an hour. It would be a simple thing, after all,
merely to get Faustina and Howard to one side and see that neither wore a red
ribbon, let the police capture the others, and then explain. Then another
thought came to him—those notes the Black Star had said were in the house where
he made his headquarters! The captured men would talk, mention that house, and
the police would search. Faustina might be endangered in that way. He didn’t
dare take the chance of leaving those notes until after he went to the ball.
He’d have to search for them, find, and destroy them. There was more than an
hour—he had ample time. He drove the machine at a furious pace, disregarding
police, who shrieked at him, barely missing trolley cars, dodging pedestrians at
crossings. Out along the long boulevard it was easier going, for there the wind
had swept the pavement clear of snow, and there was not so much traffic. He left
the paved street and cut down the hill toward the old house where the Black Star
had established his headquarters. He did not have time to take precautions; he
trusted to the good fortune that always had stood at his side in emergencies. He
turned the machine to the curb a block away from the house, sprang out, and
rushed across vacant lots toward his goal. Through the dusty hall he rushed,
reaching in his coat pocket for matches. He found a candle in the furnished room
and lighted it. Then breathlessly he began his search. Nothing was in the drawer
at the end of the table except what he had seen before. There was no furniture
in the room in which letters might be concealed. He inspected the couch, but
found nothing. He ripped the seat and back from the armchair, but his search was
not rewarded. In the kitchen he opened drawers and bins, but found nothing
except dust and cobwebs. He rushed back to the Black Star’s room again. His foot
found the trigger of the trapdoor, and he opened it and crept to the edge of the
pit to hold the candle and peer down. There was nothing but the smooth cement
walls and flooring. He ripped away rugs, searched the floor, finally stood,
panting, beside the table in despair. “He lied!” he gasped. “He must have
lied—and I have been losing time!”

He looked at his watch again—it was one minute after eleven o’clock. It would
take him only fifteen minutes to reach the big hall where the Charity Ball was
being held if he drove swiftly, and so he had time for further search, but it
seemed of no use. Staggering against the side of the table, he threw out his
hand to grip the edge—and a drawer shot out! He forgot the place and danger, and
gave a cry of joy. Accident had accomplished what search had failed to reveal.
The drawer was half filled with papers. He inspected them quickly—yes, there
were several notes in Faustina’s handwriting, and a forged check for three
thousand dollars in the bolder scrawl that belonged to Howard Wendell. The Black
Star evidently had had that check close at hand to show the boy now and then in
case he thought of quitting the organization. There were other letters, too, the
handwriting of which Verbeck seemed to recognize, but could not quite
place—letters written by other victims of the Black Star, he supposed. He
carried them to the grate, set them afire, fed them to the flames one at a time.
He ran back to the table and pressed the edge of it all the way around, and
found one other drawer. There was nothing in it, however, and he felt that he
had secured and destroyed all the dangerous papers there. The fire in the grate
died down. Verbeck stirred the ashes to make certain nothing remained that would
give a clew. Then he blew out the candle and started through the dusty hall to
the door. As he reached it he stopped in alarm. Creeping toward the house from
the hedge were two men. Far to the right were two more. To the left were two
more. He heard a sibilant whisper from near the wall a short distance away.
Light from the nearest street lamp flashed against a policeman’s shield. The
police were surrounding the house! CHAPTER XI—CLOSE QUARTERS

Muggs stood in front of the door for a moment after Verbeck had dashed from the
house, then turned to face the Black Star again. Muggs’ lower jaw was shot out,
his eyes were narrowed, and, but for Verbeck’s orders, he probably would have
launched himself at the Black Star and attempted the old-fashioned retaliation
known as “beating up.”

Muggs was small in size, but he had great strength in his arms and shoulders,
and possessed knowledge of a multitude of tricks to aid him in the art of self-
defense or aggression. He worshiped Roger Verbeck. He was ready at any time to
fight for Verbeck, to defend his life and his happiness. The fact that the Black
Star had caused his master misery was enough to make Muggs want to throttle the
man. But Verbeck had decreed against that. Muggs wished he was at his master’s
side, helping him in the fight. He imagined Verbeck driving the roadster at top
speed through the streets to the big hall; he fancied him entering upon the
brilliant scene there, as he had intended doing at a later hour, getting
Faustina Wendell and her brother to places of safety, then witnessing the
capture of the Black Star’s band. He anticipated a telephone call from Verbeck
telling of success. Meanwhile he walked back and forth before his prisoner, the
pistol held in his hand, and raged at the man on the divan. “A cur like you
causing a man like Mr. Verbeck pain!” he exclaimed. “Killing’s too good for you!
I hope you get a life sentence. But he’s got you, Mr. Black Star! My boss has
you! Have your little signs pasted on his bed and all over his library, will
you? Leave sassy letters for him, eh? I reckon you’re sorry for it now!”

The Black Star still was smoking the cigar Verbeck had given him. He blinked at
Muggs, and puffed at the cigar furiously, then suddenly bent forward and bowed
his head on his hands. “That’s right!” Muggs went on. “Think of your sins! Do a
little wailing yourself! Cause my boss trouble, will you? You’d better put your
head in your hands and wish you’d played straight! Small good it will do you to
repent now, you scum!”

The Black Star’s head bent lower; he was a picture of misery. Muggs looked at
him with scorn and turned to walk the length of the room. He stopped his tirade
long enough to pick up a sandwich from the table and begin eating it. He
imagined the Black Star about to weep because disaster had overtaken him—and
Muggs always felt disgusted when he saw a man weep. But the Black Star was not
weeping—he was endeavoring a subterfuge. When he bowed his head, the burning end
of his cigar rested against the rope that bound his wrists together. Now and
then he puffed again, until the rope was scorched. Strand after strand was
burned through as Muggs talked. “Getting your dirty hands on your betters and
making them join your gang!” Muggs said, walking back toward him. “You got your
hands on one too many, I guess. And I’ll be a witness at your trial, too! I’ll
help send you over the road——”

He had passed the Black Star and was about to turn. And at that instant the
Black Star sprang. Muggs was taken unawares. A fist dealt him a blow on the back
of the head. As he staggered forward, trying to turn, the pistol was wrenched
from his hand and the butt of it crashed against his temple. The Black Star
struck him even as Muggs had struck the Black Star in his headquarters room,
when Roger Verbeck was shot into the pit. “Take that, you whelp!” the Black Star
cried. “Try conclusions with me, will you—you and your precious master? You
haven’t whipped me yet! There’s something in that old house I want—money, and
those letters—money to get me away to Chicago, and the letters to send to the
prosecuting attorney with a sarcastic little note. I’ll fix your precious master
and his girl. And while he’s trying to save her I’ll be taking a train out of
town. As for my crooks—bah! I never saw their faces—they are no friends of mine.
Let ’em go to prison—there are plenty more crooks to be had!”

He kicked the prostrate Muggs and hurried from the house. He did not know
exactly in what part of the city he found himself, but he made for a crossing
where he had seen a trolley car flash past, where he could make a start
downtown. And Muggs, groaning in pain, remained on the floor, but he was not
fully unconscious. He had heard every word uttered by the Black Star—they seemed
to ring in his brain. He kept telling himself he wanted to get up, he wanted to
do something—but he could not. He struggled mentally to rise, and finally his
will was communicated to his muscles. He rolled over, sat up on the floor.
Dizziness overcame him, but he closed his eyes and bit his lower lip and tried
to master it. And in time he did, and staggered to the divan and fell upon it.
What was it the Black Star had said? That he was going to his headquarters to
get money and letters, that he was going to leave the members of his band to
their fate, and make his escape. He must stop the Black Star! Verbeck’s plans
would be shattered unless he did. And the Black Star would be a living menace to
Verbeck unless he was stopped, and perhaps would build up another organization
in some other city. Even in this moment of pain Muggs, though claiming no
superior power of reasoning, could not help but think what a fool the Black Star
had been to tell Verbeck his schemes. That was the man’s weakness—he had to
boast. It was boasting that had brought him to the close attention of Roger
Verbeck and caused all the trouble. “My hunch was right,” Muggs muttered. “I
told the boss—that I had a hunch!”

He sat up again; the dizziness had passed, but his head still pained. He must
act quickly, he kept telling himself over and over. Then the plan for which he
had been groping flashed into his brain. Muggs sprang to the telephone and
called police headquarters. He got the chief on the wire. “The Black Star has
escaped!” he cried. “You’ll get his gang down at the dance, but you’ll not get
him unless you hurry. He knocked me down and escaped. I know where you can catch
him—if you’re quick!”

Shotted queries and commands came to him from the frenzied chief. “A house—in
the south end of town!” Muggs gasped. “A deserted house—he has his headquarters
there! He’s gone there to get money, then he’ll get out of town. You can catch
him! ... What’s that? Oh, yes—I didn’t give you the address!”

Muggs swayed from the telephone, but in a moment had gathered his strength and
was talking again. He gave the location of the house, and the chief said that he
understood. “And I’ll be there—I’ll start right now,” Muggs added. “I’ll be
there to identify him.”

Sudden decision had come to Muggs, and he stumbled away from the instrument
without further words, not even stopping to hang up the receiver. He hurried
across to the door and threw it open and went out. The stinging cold air
refreshed him. He started along the driveway. By the time he reached the
boulevard, Muggs was himself again, except that the pain pounded in his head
because of the blows the Black Star had given him. He hurried along the street,
half running. On the first corner he waited for a car. An automobile came along,
bound for town, and Muggs hailed the driver. He was a private chauffeur going to
the big hall to fetch home from the ball some of the women of the family for
which he worked. Muggs told him it was a matter of life and death, and the
chauffeur allowed him to crawl up beside him and put on speed. Five minutes
later, well down in town, Muggs got off and hailed the first taxicab he saw,
offering double pay if good time was made, and the cab soon was rushing toward
its destination. The police had acted promptly on Muggs’ information, and as the
taxicab whirled around a corner half a dozen blocks from the goal, Muggs could
hear in the distance the shrieking of a siren on a police automobile. He urged
his chauffeur to greater speed. At a corner he stopped the cab, paid the driver,
and the next moment was running down the dark side street toward the deserted
house. He slipped along the hedge and crept near the wall, making his way toward
the door. It was closed, and Muggs did not try to open it, but went on to a
window. He raised it as he had that first night when Verbeck had been with him.
Muggs wanted to get inside and catch the Black Star at work. He wanted just one
blow at the Black Star before the police arrived, for the blow that had been
given him, and for the misery Verbeck had been caused. Then he’d gladly hand the
Black Star over to the authorities. He slipped through the window. As he did so
the police automobile stopped on the nearest corner, and men piled out of it and
ran forward to surround the house. Muggs gave them one glance, then left the
window and stepped softly across the room. Light was coming through that crack
in the door—the Black Star was there! Muggs put his eye to the crack. He did not
see the Black Star—he saw Roger Verbeck just blowing out the candle and starting
to enter the dusty hall! The meaning of the situation flashed over Muggs in an
instant. The Black Star had not arrived yet. Verbeck had come here to get those
letters before going to the big hall. And he—Muggs—had brought the police! They
would capture Roger Verbeck—and there was nothing to prove that Roger Verbeck
was not the Black Star! CHAPTER XII—AT THE CHARITY BALL

Muggs jerked open the door, rushed through the furnished room, and entered the
hall. “Boss! Boss!” he hissed. Verbeck was just recoiling from the outer door.
He closed it as noiselessly as he could and hurried back. “Boss!”

“That you, Muggs?”

“Yes. That devil worked a trick on me—he got away. He intended to come here and
get money, then hurry out of town. I—I telephoned the police, boss, to come
here, and I came myself to identify him. I didn’t know that——”

“All right, Muggs. I understand. You did right.”

“But I let him trick me—and the cops are here. If they catch you they’ll think
you’re the Black Star.”

Verbeck realized that even better than Muggs. If the capture was made at the big
hall, and the prisoners questioned—as they would be, and mercilessly—Faustina
Wendell and her brother, under the strain, might give evidence that would
convict him. “We’ve got to get away, boss!”

She had recognized the ring, Verbeck was thinking. Perhaps it was Howard Wendell
who had watched as he went home that night. Yes—he’d have to escape. “Oh, boss!
I said I had a hunch!”

“Quick!” Verbeck whispered. “And be quiet! My roadster is at the curb a block
away. We must get out and reach it. How many policemen?”

“A dozen at least, boss—and there may be another auto full of ’em coming.”

“Hush! Some one is trying that door now. Into the kitchen with you!”

Muggs hurried through the kitchen door. Verbeck pushed him into a closet and
bade him remain there until he returned. Then he went from the kitchen to the
dining room, and there he lifted his pistol and sent three shots ringing into
the ceiling. Another instant and he was back in the kitchen, in the closet with
Muggs. “Perhaps they’ll think the Black Star has committed suicide when they
hear those shots and find there isn’t a light,” he whispered. “There is a window
behind you, Muggs. Can you open it quietly and without attracting attention,
while those police are wondering about the shots?”

Muggs went to work, making no noise. The window was raised a fraction of an inch
at a time. Verbeck turned the key in the closet door, for things might come to a
pass where seconds of delay would mean everything. Finally the window was open.
Muggs, putting out his head cautiously, looked around. “Only one man on this
side, boss,” he reported. “The others have gone around to the door.”

“They’re in the house,” Verbeck replied. “They’re flashing their torches—I can
see them in the hall through the keyhole.”

“This side of the house is dark, boss, shaded by trees. And there is a drift of
snow against it. We might get out without being heard or seen.”

“Try it!” ordered Verbeck grimly. Muggs went first, like a shadow, and soon was
standing beneath the window in the deep darkness close to the wall. Verbeck
followed, almost afraid to breathe, expecting every second to hear the challenge
of a policeman and to be taken. But finally he, too, stood in the shadows
against the side of the house. “One man,” Muggs whispered. “See him? We’ve got
to hurry—those cops in the house will be through searching soon. You wait here,
boss.”

Muggs slipped away beneath the trees; Verbeck could scarcely see him. Nearer and
nearer he got to the unsuspecting policeman, who was watching the group in front
of the door. Then Muggs sprang, and the policeman went down. It had been done
without noise, with a single blow, but not effectually enough to render the
officer unconscious for long. Verbeck hurried across and joined Muggs; each took
a deep breath, and then, just as the man on the ground raised a cry they darted
out into the open, racing for the hedge. Behind them was a chorus of cries, a
fusillade of shots. They got to the other side of the hedge and ran wildly for
the street. Behind them came the determined pursuit, a captain shouting orders.
As they ran, Verbeck found himself wondering at the queerness of it—that he and
Muggs had been forced to attack a guardian of the law in the interests of
justice. Verbeck promised himself to make that policeman a handsome present when
things were straightened out. More shots whistled near them—the police were
through the hedge now. On and on they ran, Verbeck slightly in the lead. They
saw a police auto standing in the street near them, another at the other end of
the block. And Verbeck’s roadster was a block away! They were in the street now,
running at their utmost speed. Behind them came the pursuing policemen, while
others rushed toward the automobiles, intending to take up the pursuit in that
manner if the quarry got away. Nearer and nearer they came to the roadster. When
they reached it Muggs sprang to the wheel. Verbeck threw himself in beside
Muggs. “Shoot at ’em a couple of times, boss, and slow ’em up,” Muggs said.
“That’s going too far. Get up on the boulevard!”

The car started. Another fusillade of shots came, none taking effect. The
machine skidded around the corner and dashed at the hill. It lurched and swayed
over the soft, snow-covered ground. Behind came the two police automobiles,
their sirens shrieking. Muggs reached the boulevard, and opened her up. He had
no idea except to shake off pursuit. Verbeck glanced at his watch as they passed
beneath a light—it was twenty minutes after eleven. Events had been occurring
rapidly in the last half hour. And he was working under a close time limit, too.
He had to escape the pursuit, and he had to reach the big hall before midnight
to save Faustina Wendell and her brother. Verbeck looked back continually—they
did not seem to be gaining. The streets flashed by. Muggs narrowly evaded
collision a score of times, for he was taking desperate chances. To escape, and
to save Faustina, and all in forty minutes of time—that was task enough. Added
to the mental strain of this was the fact that the Black Star had escaped, and
that Verbeck’s case would fall down in part because of it. Yet some of the work
would be good, for the band would be broken up partially, at least, if the
officers at the big hall caught the thieves with stolen goods in their
possession. They did not seem to be able to gain on their pursuers, and the
precious minutes were flying. They took corners at a reckless pace, zigzagging
through the city in a vain attempt to outwit those who followed. Now and then
Verbeck waved his hand to indicate a turn, and Muggs obeyed. They skirted the
retail district, and got to the wholesale district, where there was scant
traffic at this hour of the night, but always behind them came the two police
automobiles, sirens shrieking, officers screeching. “We can’t dodge ’em, boss!”
Muggs yelled. Verbeck looked at his watch again. He had only thirty minutes! But
an automobile going at racing pace can cover a lot of ground in thirty minutes,
even through the streets of a city. On they dashed, twisting and turning, never
gaining, just holding their own. Down another hill they raced, and now they were
near the stockyards. Here there was no pavement; here the mud and slush and
slime splashed over the machine and around them, and the auto lurched and
skidded dangerously. “Slow down at the next turn,” Verbeck ordered, “I’ll drop
off, and you keep on. Get away if you can—work back into town and give them the
dodge. I can’t waste another minute—I’ve got to get to the big hall. And I can’t
do it in the machine, for we can’t shake them off.”

“I can take you back nearer the hall, boss.”

“I’d not dare try to drop off there—they might see me. But here, where it is so
dark—— At the next turning, Muggs!”

“Boss——”

“Here we are! Get away if you can, and if you do, come to the hall later. I’ll
be all right!”

They made the turning, and Verbeck dropped off, and then Muggs opened her up
again and dashed on along the muddy street, and behind him rushed the determined
police in their two automobiles. They passed within forty feet of Roger Verbeck,
who was inside a stockade, in close proximity to a hundred startled Texas
steers. Less than thirty minutes—and he was at the stockyards. There was not a
second to waste. He could not glance at his watch to get the exact time without
striking a match, and he did not dare do that because some watchman might see
and apprehend him. He got out of the cattle pen and started running along the
street in the dark, toward the nearest car line. Slush and mud splashed over his
trousers, and he realized that he would not be the usual well-groomed Roger
Verbeck society knew when he invaded the big hall. He boarded a car, drew his
overcoat close around him, and crouched in a corner. It seemed that the car
stopped at every street, that it made wretched time. The blocks never before had
seemed so long. Verbeck looked at his watch again, fearing he would be too late.
He felt on the verge of screeching to the motorman to give the car greater
speed. Finally it was up in town, and Verbeck got off and rushed for the nearest
taxicab stand. In an instant he was inside a machine, and a chauffeur was taking
chances to earn the extra pay promised him if he reached the hall before
midnight. Verbeck took out a handkerchief and wiped off his pumps, and brushed
mud and slush from the bottoms of his trousers as well as he could. He smoothed
down his hair, and tried to regain his composure so that he would appear
outwardly calm at least. He would have to enter the hall in a matter-of-fact
way. An excited entrance would attract attention. The cab stopped before one of
the entrances of the hall. Verbeck glanced at his watch again—it was five
minutes of twelve. As he sprang out he tossed the chauffeur a bill. He took a
deep breath, threw back his shoulders, handed his ticket to the man at the door,
and stepped into the lobby with a smile on his face. Three men were loitering in
the southwest corner by the drinking fountain. Two more were approaching, and a
woman was walking toward the fountain from the opposite direction. All the men
wore bits of red ribbon on their coat lapels—the woman on her right shoulder.
And Verbeck saw something else, too—men who were scattered about in couples,
each couple pretending to carry on an animated conversation, but watching the
corner. They were detectives, several of whom Verbeck recognized. He walked past
the fountain swiftly and turned the corner. Faustina Wendell and her brother
were approaching him side by side, each decorated with the red ribbon. In a
moment they would be out where the detectives would see, if they had not been
observed already. Verbeck had removed his hat and coat, and as he turned the
corner he tossed them to a check boy. He almost ran forward to meet Faustina and
Howard. He knew it lacked but a few seconds to midnight. “Quick!” he whispered
as he met them. “Don’t ask questions, but, for Heaven’s sake, do as I say! Take
off that red ribbon—quick! Howard! Get back on the floor—anywhere to get out of
sight. Faustina—come!”

Verbeck himself tore the ribbon from her shoulder as Howard removed his own. He
pushed Howard ahead of him until he was on the dancing floor. He grasped
Faustina about the waist—he waltzed her out into the crowd! The hands of the
clock pointed to midnight—and from the southwest corner of the lobby came sounds
of a commotion as the detectives, obeying their orders, closed in on the Black
Star’s crooks. CHAPTER XIII—MUGGS—GREAT LITTLE MAN

Verbeck felt Faustina grow limp in his arms, and he waltzed her to a position
near the wall and the door. Howard stepped over to them. “You—you——” Faustina
was trying to speak. “Don’t say a word,” Verbeck whispered. “I understand
everything. There is no danger for you. I have destroyed all the notes you wrote
and the check Howard gave.”

“But——”

“Thank Heaven I was in time! I almost failed to save you!”

“To save me——”

“Careful—whisper! Step closer, Howard. I, too, was almost caught in the Black
Star’s trap. I discovered his hiding place and took him prisoner. I knew his
gang would have to be caught if ever he was to be convicted, and so I tried to
play a lone hand against him. Muggs warned me—he had a hunch, he said. While the
Black Star was kept prisoner I played his part, issued orders, got all of the
gang to be here to-night, then informed the police to take them in.”

“You——” Howard began. “Careful—act naturally! I gave you and Faustina orders,
too, not knowing. Then the Black Star told me what I had done, tried to get me
to let him go free. And I rushed to that house where he had his headquarters and
destroyed the letters and Howard’s check. Nobody knows you were involved except
the Black Star and myself, and the Black Star cannot prove anything. And that
Chicago partner of his, you may be sure, will remain away. You’ll never be
bothered. I’ve saved you—but I had a narrow escape.”

“Oh, Roger!” Faustina whispered. “And—almost—I thought that you were the Black
Star. I recognized the ring and your hand—and Howard watched that night and saw
you go home at four o’clock in the mor——”

“I was afraid of that,” Verbeck said. “I didn’t—really—mistrust you,” she said.
“But it—it looked so peculiar. And so we came here to-night—but we talked it
over first, and decided we’d not steal. I couldn’t do it, dear, and neither
could Howard. And you must not blame Howard too much about that check. He was
young, thoughtless—it has been a great lesson to him. They really stole the
money from him, and he got it back from them. We intended going to the corner—at
midnight—no matter what happened. We expected the worst—but we couldn’t steal.”

“My girl!” Verbeck breathed. There was more commotion in the lobby. Some of the
dancers were walking in that direction, and Verbeck led Faustina there, with
Howard on her other side, in a manner as natural as possible. The Black Star’s
men and the woman wore handcuffs. Detectives were taking jewels from them, gems
they had stolen in the last hour or so. One of the men already was cursing the
Black Star aloud, swearing that the Black Star had betrayed them and declaring
he would tell everything he knew. Verbeck was thankful he had gone to the house
and destroyed the letters. “There were to be eight men and two women,” he heard
a captain say. “We’re one man and one woman shy.”

“I saw another woman with the red ribbon on,” spoke up one of the detectives.
“Maybe I’d recognize her if I saw her again.”

“We’ll have all the exits guarded, and you can look——”

Verbeck whirled to Faustina. “We’ve got to get out of this quick!” he said.
“That man may have seen you, may recognize you. If we get out now we are safe,
for if he saw you on the street afterward in different clothes he’d never
recognize you. And nobody would suspect Faustina Wendell. But right now it would
be dangerous for him to see you.”

“What can we do?” Howard asked in sudden alarm. “Quiet! Act naturally, for
Heaven’s sake. Come with me to the door. You came in the electric?”

“Yes,” Faustina said. “Get all our things in the check room, Howard—as naturally
as possible, remember—and meet us at the door——”

Already he was leading Faustina toward the nearest entrance. The captain of
detectives was rushing there to go on guard immediately. Howard came from the
check room, and Verbeck put Faustina’s wrap over her shoulders. “Wait a minute
there!” It was the captain of detectives who called to them. “I want to see you
before you go—— Oh, ’tis you, Mr. Verbeck? You and your young lady and her
brother? Go right along, sir. We’re trying to catch a crook or two—we want to
watch all who leave. Sorry to have bothered you, sir——”

“That’s all right, captain,” Verbeck said. “I hope you catch your crooks.” He
lifted his hat and led Faustina out into the corridor, Howard following. They
went out into the softly falling snow and the blur of thousands of electric
lights to safety. They started toward the corner where the electric had been
left. But before they reached it Verbeck halted in surprise, and with an
exclamation of unbelief on his lips. Muggs was running toward him. “May I speak
to you a minute—boss?” he asked. Wondering, Verbeck excused himself and stepped
to one side. “I’ve got the Black Star in the car across the street, where it’s
dark,” Muggs said. “I gave him a crack on the head and threw him on the floor of
the car and put a robe over him—but he’s liable to come to any time.”

“How——”

“For the love of Mike, boss, hand the devil over to the police and get rid of
him. I’ve still got that hunch!”

Verbeck hurried back to the others. “Get in the electric and wait for me at the
corner,” he directed. “I’ll be only a minute or so.”

As they started on, Verbeck followed Muggs across the street. He knew exactly
what he intended doing; there would not be any waste of time. “We’ll act on that
hunch of yours right now, Muggs,” he said. “Drive to the entrance of the hall.”

In a moment they were there. Verbeck went inside and called the captain of
detectives to him. “Bring a couple of your men and come out here,” he said.
“I’ve got the Black Star for you. Yes—come along! I’m the man who caught him,
captain, and did the telephoning to the chief.”

The captain and two others followed Verbeck to the curb. The Black Star was
groaning, but not yet conscious. “Take him away,” Verbeck directed. “I’ve got to
escort my fiancée home, and she’s waiting in a car at the corner. This is Muggs,
my man. He’ll follow out to my fiancée’s home with the car, and I’ll drive right
back in it to headquarters and tell you the story. Watch that man, captain—he’s
a smooth customer. Muggs—you understand?”

“Yes, sir,” said Muggs. He stepped aside with Verbeck as the officers carried
the Black Star around the corner to a patrol wagon—the Black Star was wearing
handcuffs. “The police followed me back up in town,” Muggs explained. “I
couldn’t get away by running, so I tricked ’em. I went to the union depot—time
for a bunch of trains to be due, you see, and a big crowd there. I got a lead on
’em and whirled around the corner and stopped my car among a bunch of others—got
out and was standing on the walk looking innocent and picking my teeth when the
cops rushed by. They went on past the depot—supposed I had gone that way. Easy!
Then I started up again to get back near the hall. Remember that dark space near
the middle of the viaduct, where so many holdups come off? Just as I got there I
saw Mr. Black Star sneaking along with a suit case in one hand. Stopped the car
and smashed him on the head with a wrench before he knew it! Threw him in the
car and covered him up—see? Easy!”

Verbeck’s hand gripped that of Muggs for an instant, and then he hurried to join
Faustina and Howard. “We’ve got the Black Star, too,” was all he said. “I’ll
have to run back to police headquarters after I go home with you, and tell them
all about it. And I’ll explain the entire thing to both of you to-morrow
morning. I suppose you’ll kiss me now, Faustina, even if Howard is looking? You
wouldn’t, you know, when you suspected me of being the Black Star.”

Although she was driving the car, Faustina ran the risk of collision by taking
her eyes off the street long enough to do as Verbeck wished. Then, satisfied, he
settled back in the seat beside Howard. “One thing,” he said, “I shall do. After
this I’ll pay more attention to any hunch Muggs may get. Great little
man—Muggs!”

CHAPTER XIV—UNEXPECTED NEWS

It was exactly one o’clock in the morning when Mr. Roger Verbeck clasped in his
arms Miss Faustina Wendell—dainty, sweet, and twenty-four—and pressed upon her
lips an ardent kiss. “It is time for little girls to be in bed,” he said after
the kiss. “We’ll talk it all over this evening.”

There was another kiss, and then Roger Verbeck followed Howard Wendell to the
outer door, turned up the collar of his ulster, and hurried out into the
blinding snowstorm to where Muggs awaited him. Muggs sat behind the wheel of
Roger Verbeck’s powerful roadster, his chin down in his coat collar, and allowed
the soft snow to pile against the side of his head, meanwhile listening to the
purring of the engine and living over again the events of the past two days.
Muggs was a modest man, but even in his modesty he was forced to admit that he
had something to do with the fact that the Black Star now was in the hands of
the police. “Dreaming, eh?” Verbeck demanded, stopping beside the roadster.
“Excuse me, boss. I didn’t think you’d be out so soon.”

“We’ve got to hustle down to police headquarters—remember that, Muggs. We must
tell the chief and his boys what happened. All they know is that they have made
some arrests on our information. Drive slowly.”

Muggs started the roadster and drove on. He stopped the machine in the blinding
snow at a corner and squawked the horn. Reasonably sure at last that he could
cross without maiming half a dozen pedestrians for life, he sent the roadster
down a side street and stopped it before police headquarters. “Get out, and come
in, Muggs,” Verbeck directed. “You’re in on this. I hope we can keep away from
the newspaper boys, or we’ll both have our pictures in the papers. Come along.”

They hurried across the walk, threw open the front door of headquarters, and
entered. And just inside the door they stopped, confronted by a scene that was a
commingling of confusion and hysteria. Half a dozen detectives were scattered
along one wall, looking as if they wished to be elsewhere. Three or four
uniformed officers stood about nervously. A captain sat behind his desk and
chewed savagely at his mustache. And up and down the center of the big room
strode the chief of police, waving his arms and bellowing accusations and
charges of cowardice and incompetence. “Babies! Fools!” the chief was shouting.
“I’ll have the shields off every one of you for this! Haven’t the newspapers
been laughing at us enough? You’ll drive me to drink! I’ll hand my resignation
to the mayor in the morning! I’ll—— How d’you do, Mr. Verbeck?”

“How do you do, chief?”

“Here’s the man who did it—Roger Verbeck! Because he got peeved at this Black
Star he turns in and runs him down—what you boobs are supposed to get paid for
doing! He takes chances—he and his chauffeur, or whatever he calls him—and he
gets his man! Keeps the police out of it, and does it all by himself, just to
show you up——”

“Scarcely for that reason, chief,” Roger put in. “Don’t misunderstand me, Mr.
Verbeck—I’m not belittling what you’ve done. I’m just showing these alleged
sleuths that they are wanting in intelligence. Here’s a plain citizen gets
peeved and goes out and rounds up a big crook—hands him over to you all done up
in a bundle and handcuffed, watches while you throw him in the wagon, and
then——”

The chief stopped a moment and gurgled in anger. “_And then, by Heaven, right at
the door of headquarters, you let him escape!_”

CHAPTER XV—THE CHALLENGE

Silence for a moment, save for Muggs’ single gurgle of disgust, and then:

“What’s that?” Roger Verbeck demanded, stepping forward and facing the chief.
“They let him escape, I’m telling you! How, in the name of all that’s human,
they could do it is more than I can guess! Don’t ask me—ask some of these boobs!
For months we’ve been crazy to get this Black Star—we have him handcuffed and in
the wagon—and he escapes! He’s been gone an hour or more. He’s probably
ransacked the mayor’s house and blown up the vault of the First National Bank in
that time, just to show his anger at being pinched. Ah-h!”

The chief sputtered his wrath again. “Out!” he cried to his men. “Out—every man
of you! Some of you saw that crook’s face—though I doubt if you can tell me now
whether he’s got one eye or two. Out, and get him! Don’t come back until you do!
Get out of here—and I’ll break the man who dares to report no progress! Out,
fools!”

Glad to escape their superior’s wrath, the detectives scattered, and the
uniformed men ascended the stairs to the room used by the reserves, there to
discuss the latest event in lowered voices, for the chief’s command did not
apply to the “harness bulls.”

The chief beckoned Verbeck and Muggs to follow him into his private office.
“It’s enough to drive a man insane!” he exploded, reaching for his box of cigars
and passing it around. “How did it happen?” Verbeck asked. “Don’t ask me! The
wagon stopped before the jail door as usual. We had the eight crooks and this
Black Star. As they started to get out, two of the crooks bumped my men aside,
two more tripped at the end of the wagon, the female crooks of the gang
pretended to faint, and the Black Star made a dash for the alley. One of the
fools took a shot at him and smashed a fourth-story window across the street. He
made a clean get-away with the bracelets on him! Think of it! Right here at
headquarters! They thought he was knocked out——”

“Probably he was shamming,” Verbeck observed in an emotionless voice. “You’d
think anybody’d watch out for that—but not these fine detectives of mine! And
every newspaper in town knows we had our hands on the Black Star and let him go.
They’ve been pestering the life out of me, and I tipped off the capture as soon
as my men telephoned from the Charity Ball, where you handed the crook over,
thinking the department would get a little credit. And now they’ll be worse on
me than before. I’ll resign! I’m done! But I’ll break some of ’em first——”

“Your men are after him, aren’t they?” Verbeck interrupted. “Yes—they’re after
him. They’ve been after him for four months, and a lot of good it has done. You
tell me your story, Verbeck; there are some things I don’t know.”

Speaking quickly, Verbeck did as he had been requested, telling the chief of his
discovery of the Black Star, and of how he had played master criminal for a day
in an effort to corral the band. He explained how the Black Star had an
organization that gathered information for him and another that committed the
crimes. When he had finished the chief chewed at his cigar and smote the desk
with a palm. “Great scheme!” he exclaimed. “Got an organization that reaches
into every corner, eh? No wonder we had a time trying to get a line on him! Oh,
he’s a master crook all right! Great Scott! Maybe some of his men are right here
in headquarters!”

“It is possible,” Verbeck said. “Well, his perfect plans are spoiled now, at any
rate. And half a dozen of my men have seen his face—besides you and this man
Muggs of yours. So I suppose he’ll make a break and get away; he’ll be afraid to
work here any more. We’ll send his eight crooks over the road, but not the Black
Star, eh? That’ll be one nice stain on my department! But, thank Heaven, his
work is done in this town!”

Suddenly the chief sat forward and regarded Verbeck gravely. “See here!” he
exclaimed. “There may be considerable danger for you. Even if the Black Star
beats it, and his plans are smashed and his organization scattered, some of his
friends may take it out on you for getting hands on him and spoiling their game.
You may be a marked man. Better let me send a couple of good men up to that
bachelor apartment of yours. And you’d better stay, close around home for a few
days, until we know how things are going to be.”

“Pardon me,” said Verbeck, “but from what you have told me to-night I scarcely
think a couple of your men would be of much value. I’d rather rely on myself and
Muggs.”

“Rubbing it in, eh? I don’t blame you! But you can have the men if you want
them.”

“No, thanks, chief. I’ll go along home now and get some sleep. Here’s hoping you
catch your man. He didn’t have much of a start, and he had handcuffs on his
wrists—but he’s a slippery customer. My man can testify to that. He slipped away
from him once, and left a bump on his head when he did it.”

“Better let me send up those men, Mr. Verbeck, even if they are pretty much
worthless. We don’t want to have you found knifed in bed some morning.”

“I’m not afraid of any of the gang, chief, and the Black Star can’t organize
again and issue orders until he has a new headquarters. And, remember, I’ve
talked to the Black Star. He isn’t the sort of man who kills.”

“No?”

“No; he’s the sort that takes a pride in being a master criminal who uses brains
instead of violence in pulling jobs no other man would approach and in doing
them in a neat manner. Did he ever leave a mussed-up safe behind?”

“He generally unlocks ’em, takes what he wants, puts one of his blamed black
stars in ’em, and locks ’em again—cuss him!”

“There you have his character, chief. Good night!”

Verbeck and Muggs made their exit in dignified and proper manner, and they did
not speak until they were in the roadster and a block from police headquarters,
on their way home. Then Muggs broke the silence in characteristic fashion.
“Whaddaya know about that!” he exclaimed in great disgust. “The Black Star is a
clever man, Muggs.”

“His pals helped that get-away.”

“Certainly—thinking that, with the Black Star at liberty, the organization will
come to their rescue in some manner.”

“I noticed you swallowed that bunk the chief handed out about this Black Star
making a break for other parts, now that he has been seen by a few cops.”

“You think I swallowed it, Muggs?”

“I was hopin’ you didn’t.”

“Well, I didn’t, Muggs. I boasted I could capture the Black Star, and he’s just
the sort of man to try to show me I cannot. I wouldn’t be the least bit
surprised if he remained in the city for the purpose of making a laughingstock
of me.”

“That’s the way I’m looking at it, boss.”

“I fancy we’ll hear from him in a few days, Muggs.”

They put the roadster in the garage at the rear of the bachelor-apartment house,
and then ascended to Verbeck’s apartment. Muggs snapped on the lights in the
library, while Verbeck threw off hat and overcoat and gloves and reached for his
favorite pipe. He glanced at the clock on the desk—it was within a few minutes
of four in the morning. He gave an exclamation, took a quick step forward, and
looked at the face of the clock again. On the glass, directly over the figure
IX, _had been pasted a tiny black star_! “That wasn’t there when I dressed last
evening,” Verbeck mused. “So he’s been here since he escaped the police, eh?
That is pretty swift work!”

Muggs hurried in from the bedroom. “Boss! Look!” he cried. “This was pinned on
your pillow!”

He extended an envelope. A black star was pasted on it. The letter was addressed
to Roger Verbeck. “Swift work!” Roger exclaimed again. “Boss, my hunch is
workin’ yet! Telephone the chief to send up them men—let him send twenty of em!”

“One moment, Muggs! Your solicitude for my welfare is overwhelming—but suppose
we read this entertaining epistle before making a move. Perhaps I’ll want to
fight this out alone.”

He ripped the envelope open, took out a sheet of paper, unfolded it, and read:

Mr. Roger Verbeck: You almost had me, but at the supreme moment   I escaped. You
have seen me; so have police officers and eight   of my band who never saw me
before. You have discovered some   things concerning me, but what you have found
out is as nothing   when compared to what you do not know. This little incident
has   served to put an edge on my wit. You boasted you could catch me—do it! And
the next time hang on   to me until I am behind the bars—and even then I’ll
triumph. I   laugh at you and your efforts, as I laugh at the police. I am   not
going to run away! I’ll even keep you informed of my   movements—and then you
cannot get me. And, for the trouble you   and your man have caused me, I am
going to get you, Roger   Verbeck, and get you good! I do not contemplate
violence on your   person—that would be the resort of an ordinary thug. But I’ll
hurt you, Roger Verbeck, in a thousand ways, break you down,   ruin you, make
you a joke, until you’ll curse the day you first   heard of the Black Star. It’s
a fight to a finish between us. Every place you turn you’ll be reminded of me
and my purpose. Sleep well to-night, and in security, for you’ll need the rest.
The moment you awake the fight is on. And I’ll know when you   awake. I’ll know
every move you make, and I’ll almost know every   thought in your head—you poor
fool! *****

Roger Verbeck took the most of that epistle as a matter of course, but his eyes
narrowed to two tiny slits when he read that “poor fool,” and his lips set in a
straight line. That “poor fool” stung Roger Verbeck almost as much as the
unpardonable phrase would have stung him. He handed the Black Star’s letter to
the waiting Muggs. “We’ve fought some pretty good battles, Muggs, but nothing to
what this is going to be,” he said. “On your toes, Muggs! Forget that hunch of
yours! We don’t quit until I stand in court and hear a judge sentence the Black
Star for his crimes, until I watch him pass in through the doors of a State
prison. Think what he’s done, Muggs—of the decent persons he’s forced into his
gang! This is going to be the hardest fight of our lives.”

“My coat’s off, boss, and my sleeves rolled up!”

“Good! We’ll fight alone, if we can. There is no one we can trust. Police
officers, persons we meet every day, our acquaintances, even our friends, may be
in his organization—and he’ll soon get it working again. But we can trust each
other, Muggs.”

“You said something there, boss! You bet we can!”

CHAPTER XVI—A NOCTURNAL VISIT

Verbeck opened his eyes at eleven o’clock that morning after a dreamless,
refreshing sleep to find Muggs standing at the foot of his bed, fully dressed,
grinning, the morning newspapers in his hands. “They’ve got it all, boss,” he
reported. “That Black Star sent letters to the papers last night by special
messengers, and from a downtown hotel. Whaddaya think of his nerve? Here it
is—story of the whole thing, givin’ us a lot of credit and makin’ fun of the
police for lettin’ the crook escape. I’ll bet that fat chief has a fit when he
reads this!”

“Probably he read it several hours ago and already has had his fit,” Verbeck
said. “Had breakfast? Yes? You’re the original early bird, Muggs. Well, I’m
famished!”

Verbeck bathed and dressed in record time, and hurried to the café in the
basement, eager to eat and be gone before the regular luncheon crowd gathered to
point him out and make remarks about his pursuit and capture of the Black Star.
No sooner had he seated himself at his favorite table than the waiter placed
before his eyes an extra edition of one of the evening papers, damp from the
press. Roger spread it open to find his own portrait gazing at him from the
front page, and as he waited for his toast and eggs and coffee he read. The
Black Star had sent a letter to the evening paper also, but through the mail,
with a special-delivery stamp affixed. Again the master criminal scoffed at the
police, threatened some particularly daring crimes to demonstrate that he did
not fear them, and then paid his respects to Roger Verbeck. A reproduction of
the last paragraph of the Black Star’s letter was shown in the paper:

To All Whom It May Concern: There is war between myself and   Roger Verbeck, who
caused me considerable trouble the last few   days. I hereby warn all persons
not to give aid to this enemy of   mine—to refuse him shelter, food, clothing,
refuse to hold   conversation with him, or have business dealings with him of
any   sort whatsoever. Against those who dare disobey this order I’ll
strike—and strike hard. *****

Roger smiled as he read that paragraph; he presumed it was one of the Black
Star’s jokes—for he had discovered that the master rogue had a sense of humor.
Certainly it could be nothing else. Roger Verbeck was the last of one of the
city’s old families, a young man respected by all, with unlimited wealth at his
command, possessing a myriad of acquaintances and legions of friends. This
warning of the Black Star was very liable to fall upon deaf ears. Still, it was
embarrassing, and Roger found himself frowning because of the unpleasant
publicity. That was one way the Black Star could fight him—by making him
ridiculous through the newspapers; for it was certain that the papers would
print any letters the Black Star sent them. Roger caught a vision of future days
of horror, with every one pointing him out, joking him, making his life
miserable. On the streets, at any of his clubs, wherever he met his friends, his
name would be coupled with that of the Black Star. There would be but one
escape—and that by capturing the master crook, turning the laugh on him, and so
ending the affair. Having breakfasted, Verbeck had Muggs get out the roadster,
and they drove to police headquarters. The snowstorm was at an end, and the day
was warm for March. But they failed to find the spirit of spring prevalent when
police headquarters was reached. A sleepy chief paced the floor of his private
office, chewing at his inevitable black cigar. Detectives, plain-clothes men,
and uniformed officers rushed in and out. Telephones rang. “Don’t ask me,” the
chief roared when he saw his visitors. “I’ll tell you—it’ll take less time. We
haven’t got him. We haven’t even discovered a trace of him. The handcuffs he
wore were found in an alley less than half a dozen blocks away—and that’s all.
He’s found time to send letters to the papers—and to me.”

“He sent one to you?” Roger asked. “He did. If ever I get my two hands around
the throat of that Black Star I’ll choke the life out of him. I wouldn’t care if
he got mad and sent me cuss words—but he called me a blanked fool!”

“Ah! We are fellow sufferers,” Verbeck said. “That’s what he called me.”

“You! You’ve heard from him?”

“When I got home this morning his black stars were pasted around my apartment,
and I found a letter pinned to my pillow—or rather Muggs did. Here it is.”

Verbeck handed it over; the chief read it. Then the head of the city’s police
department sat down before his desk, thought for a moment, and finally pushed a
button. A sergeant entered. “Send me Detective Riley!” he ordered. A moment’s
waiting, while the chief chewed his cigar and Roger and Muggs puffed at theirs.
Then Riley entered and saluted his chief respectfully. Detective Riley was a man
of fifty, and he had been in the department since the age of twenty-one. He knew
every inch of the city, and was a man of nerve and resource. But for his honest
and outspoken opinions of political leaders undoubtedly he would have been high
in the department. As it was, he was satisfied. “I believe you know Mr. Verbeck,
Riley,” the chief said. “I certainly do, sir,” the detective answered, grinning
at Roger. “His father got me my job on the force, and I taught Roger how to hold
a bat when he played ball on the corner lot near the old Verbeck place.”

“Um! You know this town pretty well, too, and you’re an honest man. Sit down—and
listen. You’re going on the trail of this Black Star, Riley. And if you’re in at
the death when he’s nabbed I’ll see you made a captain, if I have to go into
politics myself and slay half a dozen ward bosses who don’t like your looks.”

“Some special line of work, sir? I’m already assigned to the case.”

“So is every other man in the department. Yes—this is a special line of work.
You are to glue yourself to Mr. Roger Verbeck and hang on. Understand?”

“But, chief——” Roger began. “Just a moment, Mr. Verbeck. I admire your courage
and all that, but we’ve got to do this in proper fashion. You’ve been threatened
by this Black Star. He’s going to take you partly into his confidence so he can
make a fool of you. I want Riley with you for two reasons. The first is that you
are going to have police protection whether you wish it or not. If Riley is with
you and Muggs, one man can be awake and on the job always, yet all of you get
plenty of rest. The second is that Riley can add his police experience and
knowledge of crooks and the city to your natural courage and cleverness.
Understand? If this Black Star communicates with you or makes a move against you
in any way Riley will be there and on the job to help. You’ll not lose time
sending to headquarters for assistance.”

“I understand, chief.”

“Another thing. Do you feel you can trust Riley?”

“I certainly do,” said Verbeck earnestly. “Good enough! It isn’t every one we
can trust in this game. You take Riley with you and go after the Black Star,
independent of this department—just as you did before, except that you’ll have a
regular officer along. And we’ll work on our own lines. And between us, we’d
ought to get our hands on him. Riley knows a certain private phone number he can
use in case of emergency, and a call will rush a score of men to any part of the
city. That’s agreeable? Get out, then, and take Riley with you! I’m going to lie
down on the couch and take a nap.”

Verbeck laughed and led the way from the private office, waiting in the lobby
with Muggs while Riley went to his locker for certain paraphernalia he always
had on his person when engaged on a particular case. “I like that guy,” Muggs
confided in a whisper. “The chief?”

“Naw! This Riley. I’m glad he’s goin’ to be along.”

“If I needed a recommendation for Riley—which luckily I do not—that would be the
best I could get,” Roger said, and he meant every word of it. “I think the three
of us can make the Black Star look like a sucker!”

“You don’t want to underestimate the Black Star, Muggs. Whenever you feel
inclined to do so, remember a certain smash behind the ear he gave you recently
when you thought his hands were tied.”

“He’ll never do it again!” Muggs declared. “If I ever get my lamps on that man
again I’ll forget how to turn my head!”

Riley returned, and the three went out to the roadster. The greater part of the
afternoon was spent in Verbeck’s apartment discussing plans for the campaign.
There was no sense, Riley pointed out, in running blindly around town trying to
find the man they wanted; for the Black Star, it was to be supposed, was in
hiding for the time being, and without doubt planning a campaign of his own.
Detectives were watching railroad stations, hotels, and lodging houses, and the
deserted residence where the Black Star had had his headquarters. There was
nothing for the three men who sat in Verbeck’s library to do except wait for the
master criminal to make the first move. Roger visited Faustina Wendell for an
hour that evening, while Muggs and Riley remained outside in front of the house
where she lived with her mother and brother. Then the three returned to Roger’s
apartment and spent an hour around the pool table. “A crook works at night if
he’s breaking safes and vaults,” Riley said. “Hence it is proper that we are
prepared for night work. I suggest we never retire until four or five o’clock in
the morning and get up about noon. Then we’ll be ready to jump if anything
happens.”

“Get a deck of cards, Muggs,” Verbeck ordered. “What Detective Riley says goes.
By the way, Riley, I’ve ordered the roadster left standing in front of the
building all night, ready for a quick jump.”

“That’s the stuff! I wish this Black Star would hurry up and start something.
I’m anxious to get into action.”

Tired of cards, they played pool again, and then they read, and then they talked
of the Black Star some more, and finally they began wondering if it wasn’t time
to retire. “Just four o’clock,” Verbeck announced. And then the telephone rang!
Roger stepped across the room to the desk and picked up the instrument; Muggs
and Riley were on their feet, eager to know what the message would be, and
hoping it was a call to battle. “Is this Mr. Verbeck’s apartment?” a voice
demanded. “Yes,” Roger answered. “And who is this speaking?”

“This is Mr. Verbeck.”

“Indeed? I thought perhaps it was that dolt, Detective Riley, from headquarters.
I understand he is a more or less permanent guest of yours.”

“Who is this?” Roger demanded in turn. “Pardon me for not telling you before.
This is the Black Star.”

“What’s that?” Roger exclaimed. “I assure you I am the Black Star. This is not
one of your friends playing a joke on you. I just thought I’d call you up and
say that the letter I sent the newspapers was meant. I’ve already made a move
against the manager of the apartment house where you live because he hasn’t
ousted you.”

“Indeed?” Roger asked, beckoning Riley and Muggs toward him. “You think I am
jesting? I never jest about my work, Mr. Verbeck. I imagine you’ll have to find
another home before night. Pardon me if I ring off now. It is possible you are
sending Detective Riley or Muggs to another telephone to trace this call. And
that would be both unnecessary and embarrassing for me. For I am speaking to you
from the office of your own apartment house. Good-by!”

Roger Verbeck dropped the telephone, spoke a dozen quick words, and was running
out into the hall, closely followed by Riley and Muggs. Down three flights of
stairs, four steps at a time, they rushed, and into the lobby. Not a person was
in sight. From outside came the roaring of an automobile engine. They ran to the
door, hurled it open, and hurried out. Tearing down the broad boulevard was
Roger Verbeck’s big roadster, and the man who drove it turned an instant to wave
one hand at them. “The nerve of——” Muggs began. Detective Riley emptied his
automatic at the vanishing car, and growled low in his throat because he knew he
had missed. “The night clerk——” Verbeck cried. “Where was the clerk?”

They rushed back into the lobby. They heard doors slamming on the floors above
as tenants, aroused by the turmoil and shooting, started an investigation. And
they heard groans coming from behind the long desk. Verbeck vaulted the counter,
and cried out in surprise. On the floor, bound hand and foot, and gagged, was
the night clerk of the bachelor-apartment house. In the middle of his forehead
was pasted a tiny black star! And pinned to his breast was a card that bore this
information:

To the Manager: This is just a hint that Roger Verbeck must go. If he does not,
my next demonstration will be more disastrous. *****

CHAPTER XVII—INTERRUPTED CONVERSATION

Detective Riley grasped the nearest telephone and sent an alarm to headquarters.
Less than an hour later the report came that Verbeck’s roadster had been found
abandoned on a corner in the heart of the city, but that no trace of the Black
Star had been discovered. In the meantime the night clerk had told his simple
story. A man had entered and asked whether a Mr. Rodney Stone lived there. The
clerk said no such person was registered. Sure that no other person was in the
office, the visitor pulled an automatic from his pocket and ordered the clerk to
throw up his hands. The clerk was forced to obey, and believed at the time that
he was the victim of an ordinary holdup man, and rejoiced that all funds, except
a few dollars, were locked in the safe, which he could not open. But his visitor
walked behind the counter and forced the clerk to stretch out on the floor,
threatening death if he made a sound. He bound and gagged him, pinned the card
to his breast, and stamped his brow with a black star, then walked calmly to the
switchboard, looked at the guest list to find the number of Verbeck’s apartment,
called Verbeck, held his conversation, and hurried out of the front door.
Gentlemen guests of the house in all sorts of night attire heard this story and
looked upon Roger Verbeck with varied emotions. Some envied him the adventure
and publicity, others feared for him, but the great majority was thinking of
that warning and wondering whether they could find new quarters that day, and
Roger Verbeck knew it. The manager said nothing, for Verbeck had lived there for
years and was excellent pay, but he looked worried. “I’ll discuss this matter
with you later,” Roger said, and he beckoned Muggs and Riley and led the way
back to his apartment. There they lighted fresh cigars and sat at the long table
in the library, Muggs and Riley silent and waiting for Roger to speak. “Well,
we’ve got to move,” he said after a time. “If we don’t, the others will, for
they’ll be afraid the Black Star will demolish the place with a bomb. Perhaps
it’ll be best, after all.”

“But where?” Riley asked. “He’d bomb another hotel just as quick if that’s his
game.”

“I have a place of my own—the old Verbeck place, Riley. You know it. Muggs knows
it, too, for there we kept the Black Star prisoner for a day and night before we
handed him over to the police.”

“I remember it,” Riley said. “A big, old house in the middle of a block of
ground, surrounded by trees and tangled underbrush. I intend to have it torn
down and a new residence erected in its place after I’m married. We can go there
with fuel and provisions and make ourselves comfortable. There is a telephone,
so we can keep in touch with headquarters. We’ll be by ourselves, and so need
fear no spies of the Black Star. We can conduct our campaign from there.”

“Great!” the detective exclaimed. “No fear of spies, and nobody to bother us.
We’ll make it our headquarters. One of us can be on guard all the time. The
Black Star will have to be very clever to get at us there. And if he does he’ll
be injuring my own property, and he’ll not be hurting some outsider who has no
concern in this affair. Let’s get some sleep, then go ahead with our
preparations.”

It was noon when a much-relieved apartment-house manager saw them drive away in
Verbeck’s recovered roadster, the back of the car heaped high with provisions.
Half an hour later they had reached the old Verbeck place and unloaded the car;
Muggs had built a roaring fire in the living-room fireplace, and they were
making themselves comfortable. “This thing of working in the dark gets on my
nerves,” Riley admitted. “I’d rather catch sight of this Black Star committing a
crime and have a chase, a sort of running fight, and either victory or defeat at
its end. But what can we do? Here we must sit, waiting for him to make a move.
How do we know where he’ll strike next? He may rob a bank, rifle some lady’s
jewel case—we can’t tell. We’ve got to wait until he does something, and then
take up the trail. You had a hot trail before, Roger—one of his men led you to
him and you had a chance to get hands on him.”

“I fancy that, in his egotism, he’ll announce where he’ll strike next,” Verbeck
said. “He’s done it before.”

“If he does it again we’ll get him!” Riley said. They made a tour of the grounds
and looked through the house. There was little more than dust and cobwebs in the
house, and the furniture was covered, except in the big living room and one
bedroom, which they made habitable. Then they devoured the luncheon Muggs had
prepared. It was four o’clock in the afternoon when there came a knock at the
front door, and when Verbeck opened it he found ten policemen and a sergeant in
plain clothes standing before him. “What’s this mean?” he demanded. “Chief’s
orders, Mr. Verbeck,” the sergeant replied. “These men are to surround the block
and guard your house.”

“But that is just what we do not want!” Verbeck protested. “Chief’s orders.
Here’s a letter he told me to give you. He got it by messenger a couple of hours
ago.”

He handed Verbeck the letter. It was from the Black Star and addressed to the
chief. It read:

Within four days I will commit my greatest crime since coming to   your fair
city. Within four days I’ll make a huge laughingstock of Roger   Verbeck. His
sudden change of residence will not save him from   the punishment I intend
administering to him. Within four days! *****

Verbeck handed the letter to Riley, and faced the sergeant again. “No doubt the
chief means well, but I don’t need so much police protection,” he said. “There
are three of us here, and all of us will not sleep at once.”

“My orders, Mr. Verbeck.”

“Telephone the chief,” Riley suggested. Verbeck hurried to the telephone, and
called headquarters and got the chief. “I don’t want this squad of men out here,
chief,” he said. “The orders come direct from the mayor, Mr. Verbeck, and he’ll
not countermand them. That threat of the Black Star’s is too strong to be
ignored. I didn’t call you up before I sent the men out because I knew you’d
object. Those men will not bother you. They’ll surround the block and stay out
of your way, and be relieved at stated intervals. They’ll serve to keep the
curious away, and they’ll be there to guard the house in case you three men rush
out on a chase or anything like that.”

“But——” Verbeck began. “I insist, Mr. Verbeck. We cannot afford to run chances.
If anything happened to you, and we hadn’t given you protection after receiving
those threats, we’d never hear the last of it. You’re a prominent young man,
remember. Just let the men stay. You haven’t heard anything, have you?”

“Not a thing,” Verbeck replied, “and we can’t make a move until we do.”

“We’ve got the greatest dragnet in the history of the department in
operation—watching every exit from the city and searching everywhere—have
corralled half a hundred suspects already. If the Black Star is in the city
we’ll get him. We’re only hoping he’s brazen enough to tip off where he is or
what he intends doing. If he does, he may find he has gone too far.”

“But really, chief, I’d rather not have the men here.”

A rattling noise came through the telephone, and another voice spoke. “Get off
the line!” the chief roared. “This line’s busy.”

“Pardon me,” said the voice. “I just wanted to tell Mr. Verbeck that he’d better
let the police remain. He’ll need them to guard him.”

“Who the devil are you?” the chief roared. “I am the Black Star!”

“W-what?”

“Fact, I assure you. You might as well shout from the housetops, chief. I know
everything you do and say. So you’ve got out the dragnet, eh? Might as well call
in your men; it’ll not do any good to tire them out.”

“How—what——” the chief stammered. He was beginning to realize that the Black
Star actually was on the line and speaking. “Don’t excite yourself, chief. And
you, Mr. Verbeck, if you relish protection, better let the chief scatter a
hundred men around your place. Even that number wouldn’t save you!”

“How’d you get on this line? Where are you?” the chief shouted into the
instrument, not realizing he was talking foolishly. “Possibly I’ve tapped the
line right in police headquarters building—who knows?” the Black Star taunted.
“And you scarcely can expect me to tell you where I am. Why not find me? Go
right on hoping I’ll be brazen enough to tip off what I intend doing, chief—it
does a person good to hope.”

“You—you’re a devil!” the chief exploded. “Thanks for the compliment! Good-by!”

Again the rattling sound, and then they heard the Black Star’s voice no more.
CHAPTER XVIII—MYSTERIES

Verbeck turned and told Riley and Muggs, as well as the policemen, what had
occurred over the telephone. “That man ain’t human,” the sergeant offered. “You
bet he is human, and by that token we’ll get him!” Riley declared. “He thinks
he’s playin’ a funny game, and he is, but there’s an end to every game.”

“He sure is human!” Muggs declared. “’Twas a human fist he smashed me with in
back of the ear once—I know! But we’ll get him!”

“The fact of the matter is,” said Riley, “that we don’t know whether it was the
Black Star talkin’. If he’s got a bunch of helpers, maybe one of them’s at
police headquarters and just naturally tapped the chief’s private telephone
line.”

“It was the Black Star—I know his voice,” Verbeck said. “There is no doubt about
it. He speaks in a peculiar, halting way that I’ll defy any one to imitate
correctly.” He turned to the sergeant. “You may post your men,” he said. “I
presume the chief’s orders must be obeyed.”

After the sergeant and his men had gone, Verbeck closed the door and turned to
face Muggs and the detective. “This waiting makes me nervous,” he admitted. “I’d
like to be doing something. But, as you said, Riley, we can do nothing except
wait until the Black Star makes a move, and then attempt to get on his trail. If
ever we do get on his trail——”

“We’ll get him!” Muggs announced. “So we may as well make ourselves comfortable.
You cook a good dinner, Muggs—we’ve got all sorts of supplies. Riley, take
another cigar and get that sour look off your face. All we can do is wait.”

Muggs departed for the kitchen, and Riley stretched his length on a divan and
blew clouds of smoke toward the ceiling. Verbeck walked to a window and observed
that the police had been scattered around the block just inside the fence. In
the kitchen pots and pans rattled, and they heard Muggs mumbling to himself
because the fire would not blaze to suit him. Riley, after a time, arose and
paced the floor like a hound that wanted to be on the scent and had been
retained in kennels. Verbeck called up Faustina Wendell and held a conversation
of some ten minutes, during which his fiancée expressed a thousand fears for his
welfare, and Verbeck stated half a hundred times that she was not to worry. His
telephone conversation at an end, he began pacing the floor also. The monotony
of waiting was tiresome. “We’ve got to start a checker tournament or something
lively like that,” Riley declared, “or we’ll go insane. Some time during the
next four days, eh? Ain’t that what the Black Star said in his letter? I wish
he’d make it to-night. And I’ll bet that the devil, just to be ornery, will wait
until the last hour of the four days. Where do you suppose he’ll strike?”

“That’s a hard question to answer,” Verbeck replied. “He’s liable to do almost
anything that means profit. You want to remember that he had an organization
that was collecting information for him, as I discovered. He knows more than we
think. He has combinations of safes, knows the personal habits of people,
knows—oh, everything that a crook would want to know if he pulled off a job! The
information I found tabulated at his headquarters was all concerning jewels to
be worn at the Charity Ball, but Heaven alone knows, besides himself, what he
had gathered in the way of facts before that.”

“But he said he’d commit the greatest crime since he’d got to town,” Riley went
on. “What could that be? He’s turned some pretty good tricks, you’ll remember.”

“He might get into the vault of the First National,” Verbeck offered. “No
chance! That’s the finest——”

“Pardon me, Riley. Fine vaults and burglar-proof affairs do not seem to bother
the Black Star. You remember how he robbed the safety-deposit boxes of the
National Trust, don’t you?”

“Well, what would be something big he could do?” the detective asked. “He goes
after money, but jewels are his particular delight, if I have judged the man
correctly,” Verbeck said. “He has some perfect arrangement for disposing of them
at a profit, I suppose. And there are half a hundred places he could make a rich
haul of jewels. He’s what might be called a jewel fiend, Riley. He—— Ah!”

“What’s the matter?” Riley asked, looking up quickly and stopping his pacing. “I
have an idea.”

“If it’s anything that will help us catch the Black Star or bring him out of his
hole so we can chase him, for Heaven’s sake let us have it!” Riley cried. “It is
something that may bring him out of his hole—a trap! Why didn’t I think of it
before? And it can be arranged easily.”

“Let’s have it, then.”

“As you know, I am to be married soon. My gift to my bride will be the same my
father gave my mother—the famous Verbeck diamond necklace. That necklace is in a
certain safe-deposit vault now, and I’ll not even tell you where it is.”

“But where’s the trap, Roger?”

“A moment, Riley—don’t be so impatient. That necklace is the same as the day my
father clasped it on his bride’s throat. That was a good many years ago, and
fashions in jewel settings change. So naturally, before I present it to my
bride, I’ll have to have the stones reset.”

“Sure.”

“The stones alone are worth a quarter of a million dollars—enough to tempt any
jewel thief, and especially a jewel fiend, since some of the stones have
histories. Now—suppose it gets noised abroad that I am having the necklace reset
for my fiancée. The newspapers, we’ll say, print the history of the necklace and
tell of my intentions. It is announced that the jewelry firm of So & So is to do
the work, and that the necklace has been taken from the safe deposit and now is
in the vault of that firm.”

“I begin to get you, Roger.”

“I thought you would. If you were the Black Star, and read that in the papers,
what would you do? If you were the Black Star and held enmity for me, and wanted
to turn a big trick to show your contempt for the police, what would you do?”

“Ha! I’d pinch that necklace, thereby getting a quarter of a million in stones,
and some other truck as well—and at the same time get square with Mr. Roger
Verbeck.”

“Exactly, Riley! Even the Black Star would fall for that trap. If he could get
those stones, he’d not only have a handsome profit, he’d make a laughingstock of
me—what he has sworn to do. See?”

“And you’d be takin’ a mighty big chance to do it.”

“Ah! As it happens, there is a paste duplicate of the necklace. That will be
sent to the firm of So & So—the real firm to be decided between us later. And
there we can fix a trap, have the place watched night and day, be on the job
ourselves. Either the Black Star will not have the courage to go after it—or
he’ll go after it, and we’ll catch him. And we’ll get him when he has the paste
jewels in his hands, and give him the laugh, along with a term in prison.”

“Great—great!” Riley exclaimed. “But can you do it?”

“I’ll make the arrangements to-morrow. It’ll be like throwing out bait to catch
a big fish.”

“A sucker!” Riley gurgled. “If he doesn’t make some sort of move to-night we’ll
make the arrangements to-morrow. We’ll bring him out of his hole where we can
get on his trail.”

Mr. Muggs walked slowly into the room from the kitchen, his face inscrutable.
“Boss, you bought that bread at the delicatessen, didn’t you?” he asked. “Yes,
Muggs.”

“Just picked a loaf off the counter and had it wrapped up?”

“Why, yes!”

“Didn’t notice anything unusual about it?”

“No. What do you mean, Muggs? Isn’t the bread good?”

“And we got right into the car with it and came here and put it with the other
stuff on the table in the kitchen——”

“Yes—yes! What’s the trouble?”

“Did you notice the top of the loaf carefully when you picked it up?”

“Yes, confound you! What——”

“And the old Dutchman wrapped it up right under your eyes, didn’t he? And we
brought it here, as I said, and I unwrapped it and put it on the table when I
unwrapped the other things. I looked at it when I did that—I know I looked at
the top of it, and there wasn’t anything the matter with it then—and that was
less than two hours ago, wasn’t it?”

“Muggs, if you don’t tell us——” Verbeck began. “Oh, I’ll tell you, all right,
boss. On the top of that loaf now, right down the middle of the top, is a row of
little black stars.”

“What!” Verbeck and Riley cried in a breath. They rushed into the kitchen. Muggs
pointed at the bread dramatically. As he had said, there was a row of the little
black stars down the middle of the top of the loaf. “This beats the deuce!”
Riley exclaimed. “How did they get there?”

“I’ll swear they were not there when that loaf was wrapped,” Verbeck said. “And
I’ll swear they wasn’t there when I unwrapped it,” Muggs declared. “And now they
are there! So they must have been put there while we were talking in the living
room!”

“Great Scott!” Riley cried. “Do you mean to say the Black Star or one of his men
has been here and did that?”

“No little bird did it!” Muggs exclaimed. “Stand back!” Riley said. “Here is
where experience takes the lead. I’ll just look into this.”

He investigated the kitchen first. None of the windows had been unfastened since
they had come to the house, and dust on the sills showed that nobody had touched
them. The back door had not been unlocked, for there was an abundance of fuel in
the kitchen, and Muggs had not been obliged to go out for water. Riley opened
the door, however, and his eyes met a drift of snow unmarred by footprints.
Nobody had entered there. There was but one other door, and that opened into a
pass pantry, which, in turn, opened into the dining room. Riley went into the
dining room, which had not been touched, since they had decided to eat in the
living room, and found no traces of an intruder there. Even the dust on the
floor had not been disturbed. There were no traces in the pass pantry, and it
would have been impossible, of course, for any one to have entered through the
living room, since they had been in it constantly since reaching the house, and
would have seen any unwelcome visitor. “Humph!” Riley said, and looked at Muggs
suspiciously. “Boss, he thinks I done it!” Muggs exclaimed. “Nonsense!” Verbeck
replied. “I don’t think you’re a member of the Black Star’s gang, if that’s what
you mean,” Riley stated, “but I do think it wouldn’t be a bit past you to try
out a little joke.”

“I didn’t! Boss, I swear I didn’t!”

“I believe you,” Verbeck said. “Then it’s mighty puzzlin’,” Riley declared.
“Rows of black stars don’t go stickin’ themselves to bread of their own accord.”

He stepped back and looked at the interior of the kitchen again. No one had
entered or left by the rear door or any of the windows—that much was certain. No
one could have entered from the living room through the pass pantry. Then——

The table stood beside the range. Over the range was a big hood that opened into
a wide chimney. Riley went forward and peered into the hood—struck a match and
held it beside his head and peered into the chimney’s wide mouth. There was some
dust and soot sprinkled over the back of the range, but Riley could not tell
whether it had been sprinkled there recently, because the house had been
uninhabited for so long that dust and soot and cobwebs were everywhere. “Where
does that chimney go?” he asked. “It is one of those old-fashioned, wide
chimneys that run straight up through a house, with stove-hole openings, in
every room,” Verbeck answered. “We’ll just take a look upstairs. You can remain
here, Muggs, and keep your eyes open.”

Riley led the way up the broad stairs and he had his automatic clutched in his
hand. Dust—everywhere was dust! They searched all the rooms of the second floor,
though long search was not needed, for the deep dust on the floors showed no
trace of footprints. “Anything above?” Riley asked. “Garret—two rooms half
finished,” Verbeck announced. “They made their way up the narrow stairs and
raised the trapdoor. The two half-finished rooms were deep with dust also, and
cobwebs hung in clusters before stove holes. “False alarm, I reckon,” Riley
said. “But it beats me. You don’t suppose Muggs——”

“I do not,” said Verbeck. “I know Muggs well—he’d not try a trick like that.”

“Humph! Something mighty funny about this! Whoever put those stars on the bread
didn’t enter by kitchen door or window, and didn’t go down the chimney from one
of these upper floors. Those stars must have been put there by the delicatessen
man when you bought the bread. Muggs just didn’t notice them when he unwrapped
the loaf—that’s all. It’s the only way they could have got there!”

They started back down the narrow stairs. As they reached the second floor they
heard Muggs’ voice, coming to them weakly, as if from a great distance, and with
a note of pain in it. “Boss! Boss!”

Four steps at a time Verbeck took that last flight, with Riley two jumps behind
him. They rushed through the living room and into the kitchen. They saw Muggs
reeling toward them from the door, staggering toward the table, trying to hold
one hand to his head. “Muggs! Muggs! What is it?” Verbeck cried, grasping him by
the arm. “You’re hurt, man! Your head’s bloody! You——”

“Look! His forehead!” Riley cried. On Muggs’ forehead was a tiny black star!
CHAPTER XIX—SUSPICION

Muggs apparently was making an effort to speak, but could not collect his wits.
Blood was flowing from a wound on the back of his head. He staggered again, and
would have fallen had not Verbeck helped him to a chair. Riley, preferring
effective methods to kindness, grasped a pail of water and dashed the contents
of the pail in Muggs’ face. “What happened?” the detective demanded. Muggs
sputtered and spat, and sat more erect. “I’m—all right now,” he gasped. “Tell
us!”

“I—I looked around after you went upstairs—then bent over the stove to arrange
the pots. Something smashed me on the head—that’s all I know. I think somebody
grabbed me by the coat collar as I started to fall. I woke up and found myself
on the floor—and tried to call the boss.”

“That’s all?” demanded Riley. “Y-yes.”

Detective Riley took charge in this emergency without as much as mentioning the
matter to Roger Verbeck. He ran to the rear door and jerked it open, observed
that the snow was still innocent of footprints, then put a police whistle to his
lips and blew a vigorous blast. The sergeant came running, one of the men with
him. “Bring your men in closer and watch all sides of the house!” Riley
commanded. “Watch the roof, too, particularly the mouth of the chimney!”

The sergeant turned away, shouting his orders. Riley slammed the door shut and
whirled toward the stove. “Into the other room, Roger, and watch the stairs—and
have your automatic ready,” he said. “In the chimney is the only place a man
could be to pull off these stunts, and if he’s in the chimney he’s going to be
smoked out!”

He grasped the paper that had been around the provisions and threw it into the
stove. He opened the drafts, and reached for more paper. The stove roared—smoke
and flame sprang up into the chimney and through the big hood. “Watch her,
Muggs—more paper when she needs it—and hold your gun ready, man! You’re all
right?” Riley cried. “I’ll watch ’er!”

Riley sprang into the other room. “Come!” he commanded Verbeck, and ran up the
stairs again. Once more they looked into all the rooms on the second floor, and
knew that nobody had been in any of them. Once more they ascended to the garret
and looked into the two half-finished rooms there—and found nothing. Not a track
was in the deep dust, not a cobweb had been brushed from a wall. “What’s that
door over there?” Riley asked, pointing across one of the rooms. “Small
closet—never used except to store toys in when I was a kid,” Verbeck answered.
“We’ll just—— No use, though! Look at those cobwebs on the doorknob! Nobody in
there! This beats me! Let’s go down again!”

They retreated down the stairs, and went out on the veranda. No one had come
from the house, the sergeant said. Smoke, and even flame, was pouring from the
top of the chimney. “All right, sergeant—return your men to their posts, but
keep a close watch,” Riley said. “No—there isn’t anything much wrong.”

The sergeant knew there was, but he knew also that Riley did not talk when he
preferred to remain silent. He sent the men back to their posts, and Riley and
Verbeck reēntered the house and closed the door. In the kitchen Muggs was still
putting paper into the stove, and Riley ordered him to stop. “If he was in that
chimney, he’s a dead man,” the detective said. “And if he was a dead man, he’d
fall and smash that hood to bits. So he isn’t in the chimney—and wasn’t—and he
isn’t upstairs in any room—and he didn’t enter from outside. We’ve been
dreaming.”

“Not much we haven’t!” Muggs exclaimed. “Look at this bump on my head!”

“Then please explain it!” Riley roared. “Explain those stars on the bread and
the one between your eyes. I suppose this Black Star has spirits to help him or
something like that. Give me an answer!”

“The Black Star,” Verbeck observed, “is a smooth article.”

“He is,” Riley admitted, “when he can smash a man on the head without coming
into the house to do it. Ha! The basement!”

There was a door opening into the basement from the kitchen, and it was locked.
Moreover, an investigation showed that the bolt had not been shot for some time,
for dust and cobwebs were on that bolt and on the door around it. Nevertheless,
Riley opened the door, drew out his pocket flash lamp, and descended into the
basement with Verbeck at his heels. The basement was large, but nothing was
stored in it now except a small quantity of fuel. It did not take Riley and
Verbeck long to decide no intruder had been in the basement. “Looks mighty funny
to me!” Riley declared. “If that Muggs man of yours is playing tricks——”

“Would he smash himself on the head?” Verbeck demanded, something of anger in
his voice. “Such things have been done before. A little rap would start the
blood, and he might have shammed a great deal of that staggering-around
business. You don’t suppose this Black Star has got hold of Muggs—corrupted him
or got the hooks into him?”

“I do not!” Verbeck replied emphatically. “I’d stake my life on Muggs. He’s
loyal! If the Black Star tried anything like that Muggs would tell me at once.”

“Then how did it happen? Answer me that! It stands to reason, doesn’t it, that
nobody has been in this house except the three of us?”

“It looks that way, but——”

“Humph! You go right ahead thinking what you like, Roger. As for me, boy, I’m
going to keep one eye on Mr. Muggs.”

“But——”

“Don’t be angry now. It’s my business to be suspicious of people. I knew you
when you were a baby, and I’m right with you in this scrap with the Black Star.
You’ve lived with this Muggs man for some time, and you think he’s loyal—sure!
He’s somewhat of a stranger to me, and I look at him from the outside, and don’t
see him with any rosy waves of glory around his head. No insult meant, Roger.
I’ll just keep an eye on him, and if he ain’t guilty it won’t hurt him a bit.”

They went back to the kitchen. Muggs, now that the excitement was over, was
going ahead with the preparations of the evening meal. Half an hour later he had
it ready, and the three of them ate it in the living room, while Muggs groaned
now and then and held his hand to the back of his head often, apparently not
noticing that Riley eyed him constantly. “If I get my hands on that Black Star
I’ll kill him!” Muggs promised. “That’s the second time he’s smashed me on the
head!”

“Maybe the Black Star didn’t do it,” Riley said. “Either him or one of his
crooks!”

“But we couldn’t find a trace——”

“I don’t care,” Muggs interrupted; “if we knew absolutely that there wasn’t
another human bein’ within ten miles—I know a man smashed me on the back of the
head with a blackjack! I’ve had it done often enough in my life, and I know the
feelin’! And as I fell he grabbed me by the shoulder and slapped that black star
on my face! Don’t tell me!”

The meal at an end, they discussed the trap Roger had proposed to set for the
Black Star, perfecting details and deciding just how the scheme was to be
worked. It was planned that Roger should go into the business district the
following morning and arrange matters with a jewelry firm, communicate to the
newspapers the news that he intended having the famous diamond necklace reset,
and arrange with the chief to have the jewelry establishment crowded with
officers day and night. So Roger retired at eleven that night, leaving Riley and
Muggs on guard. He slept in the bedroom, with his clothes arranged beside the
bed on a chair so that he could don them quickly if an alarm came from
headquarters that the Black Star had committed the great crime he had promised.
He was to arise at five and let Riley and Muggs sleep from five until ten. Then
they would take up the watch again, and Roger would go into town about his
business. At five o’clock Muggs awoke him, announcing that he had cleaned the
bathroom and arranged the bath. “Anything happen?” Verbeck asked. “I’ve slept
like a dead man.”

“Quiet night, boss. Riley went out at midnight and prowled around the grounds a
while and talked with the cops. Nobody’d been near the place, he said. I’ll have
some coffee ready by the time you’re dressed, and when you’ve had it Riley can
go to bed.”

“And so can you, Muggs.”

“Not for some time, I ain’t. You can bet I ain’t goin’ to let you be alone in
that room with both Riley and me asleep. Look what happened to me in the kitchen
when I was alone!”

“I’ll call in the sergeant in charge of the squad, Muggs.”

“Yes, and maybe he’s one of the Black Star’s men for all you know!”

“Nonsense! Well, I’ll let you stay up until seven—how’s that?”

“That’s a little better, boss.”

Verbeck dressed and had his coffee, and Detective Riley retired to the bedroom.
Muggs curled up on the divan. Verbeck paced the floor for a time, and then threw
open the door and went out on the veranda for a breath of morning air. The squad
of police had been changed, and the new sergeant in charge hurried toward
Verbeck across the lawn. “I brought you the morning papers, Mr. Verbeck,” he
said, “when I came on duty. Thought perhaps you’d like to have ’em.”

“Thanks, sergeant.”

“Your name certainly is in all of them! Say, is it true what they say?”

“And what do they say?”

“That you were planning a trap for the Black Star and he knew all about it?”

“What!” Verbeck cried. He grasped the papers and opened the first that came to
his hand. Great headlines told of the day’s progress in the Black Star case. The
attack on the hotel clerk was exploited at length, the removal of Verbeck and
Muggs and Riley to the old Verbeck place mentioned. The paper told how the place
was surrounded at all hours by policemen, and grilled the police department
because the dragnet had caught nothing but small fish. The eight crooks arrested
with the Black Star, and who really aided his escape, had been bailed out. Bail
of five thousand had been fixed in each case, and two famous criminal lawyers
had appeared and put up forty thousand dollars cash, refusing to say for whom
they acted, merely declaring the crooks were their clients. “So they’re loose!”
Roger thought. “They’ll be at work again—or else they’ll all jump bail and so
keep from betraying the Black Star’s secrets. I imagine it’d be worth forty
thousand to him to have his plans safeguarded.”

He read on. At two o’clock that morning, just as the paper was going to press, a
messenger boy had appeared with a letter from the Black Star. The press had been
stopped to get in this latest bit of news. The messenger declared he had been
called to a prominent hotel and handed the letter by a distinguished-looking
gentleman whose description did not tally with that of the Back Star. That
letter read:

Within three days! Within three days I commit the greatest theft I have
perpetrated   since coming to the city! Within three days I make a huge joke of
Roger Verbeck, who dares   match wits with me! I know all that goes on—I know
everything! The police dragnet is   most amusing. They never would dream of
looking for me where I   am hiding! I know, for instance, that yesterday
afternoon, and again last   evening, sitting in the living room of his ancestral
home, Roger   Verbeck planned with Detective Riley and Muggs, Verbeck’s man of
all work, to set a trap for me. Very clever—had I not learned of   it. Let Roger
Verbeck understand that he may advertise to his   heart’s content that he is
having his famous diamond necklace   reset at a prominent jeweler’s—and hope
that I’ll take the bait   and try to steal the jewels while a crowd of police
are waiting   to make a capture—but his hopes will be in vain. I am planning
something bigger than the theft of the Verbeck necklace. The   shock will come
soon——

Within three days! *****

Verbeck did not go back into the house just then. He thanked the sergeant for
the papers again, and turned toward one end of the veranda, to stand there and
look off down the street, thinking. It was almost uncanny what this Black Star
knew. It was beyond belief that either the Black Star or one of his confederates
had been in the house and overheard those conversations. Had they not searched
the house from bottom to top the evening before? How, then, had the knowledge
reached the Black Star? Three men knew of that plan—himself, Riley, and Muggs.
Then either Riley or Muggs, on the face of things, must have conveyed the
information to the Black Star. “I can’t believe it—I can’t!” Verbeck told
himself. He considered Muggs first. He believed in Muggs’ loyalty, had received
many manifestations of it. Muggs also had entered the first chase of the Black
Star with zeal, had in reality effected the crook’s capture. Would he turn
traitor now? There was that affair of the evening before, when Muggs had
received the blow on his head. There was the affair of the stars on the bread.
Search had revealed that nobody was in the house. Who had put the stars on the
bread then, and who had struck down Muggs and stamped his forehead? Had Riley
been right? Was Muggs a Black Star man? Had he stamped that bread himself, given
himself a wound, and pretended to be badly injured for a time just to carry out
the orders of the master criminal? Then he considered Detective Riley. He would
as soon believe Muggs guilty as Riley. His father had been Riley’s benefactor.
Riley had known him since he was a baby, had taught him how to play baseball,
how to swim. Yet in the last few years he had not seen much of Riley, and maybe
he had been caught in the net of official graft. Maybe he was no longer honest,
save on the surface. Perhaps, angered at last because he had not received the
promotion he deserved, he had turned crook and was trading on his reputation for
honesty. Muggs had said Riley had gone out and prowled around the house about
midnight. He had a chance, then, to communicate with some agent of the Black
Star. That would give the Black Star just about time to write the letter to the
paper and have it delivered so that it would reach the newspaper office by two
o’clock. Back and forth, back and forth across the veranda, Roger Verbeck paced,
trying to fight down suspicions he did not believe worthy of him. Muggs
disloyal? He could not believe it! Riley turned crook? He could not think it!
Yet there was the morning paper. No one but Riley and Muggs had heard those
plans. They had been discussed at the table in the center of the living room,
with all the doors closed, and they had been discussed in low tones as the three
men bent over the table. Why, it was doubtful if a man could have overheard, had
he even been in an adjoining room and listening—and Verbeck knew no man had been
in an adjoining room. “I can’t believe it!” he told himself again. “Yet here it
is—and must be believed! I’ll say nothing—I’ll just let them read the papers.
And I’ll watch! If either Riley or Muggs has turned against me, my faith in
human nature is gone! Can’t I have even one honest ally? Must I fight this
master criminal alone?”

Muggs called to him from the doorway, wanting to know whether Verbeck was not
cold without his coat. He looked at Muggs. He saw the seamed and wrinkled
countenance, the eyes that twinkled kindly, the doglike look of devotion in the
face—Muggs, who had fought for him scores of times, who had been willing in some
of their adventures to lay down his life for the man who had saved him from the
Seine. No—Muggs could not be disloyal! Detective Riley, then? CHAPTER XX—THE
VOICE ON THE WIRE

At seven o’clock Verbeck ordered Muggs to bed, promising to call him with Riley
at ten o’clock. He had kept the morning papers from Muggs, for he had decided to
announce the failure of their contemplated trap when both men were facing him.
When snores from the adjoining room told him that Muggs was in a heavy sleep,
Verbeck decided to make a tour of the house by himself in an effort to solve the
mysteries that had been puzzling him. Automatic held ready, he crept softly up
the stairs and examined every room on the second floor, looking at every window
and door, but failing to find as much as a track in the dust. He mounted to the
garret once more and peered into the two half-finished rooms there. Then he
returned to the first floor and sat down before the table in the living room,
trying to think it out. He asked himself again whether Muggs had really put
those black stars on the bread and had wounded himself in an effort to make
Verbeck believe he had been attacked. What would be the motive? Verbeck shook
his head because he could think of none. And had Riley betrayed their
contemplated trap? Again he asked himself the motive, and told himself there was
none, unless Detective Riley was a member of the Black Star’s band and acting
under the orders of the master criminal. He paced the floor, and occasionally
went on the veranda, fighting down the belief that either of the men had turned
against him, calling upon himself to have faith in them. Ten o’clock came, and
he awoke Riley and Muggs and prepared coffee while they dressed. He put the
coffee on the table, with butter and rolls, and scattered the newspapers around.
Then, as the two men began eating, he walked to the nearest window and stood
looking out over the snow-covered lawn. Presently there was an exclamation
behind him, and he whirled around, to find both Muggs and Riley staring at
newspapers as if they could not believe their eyes. Verbeck decided that either
they were genuinely surprised, or were good actors. “Yes,” he said before either
of the others could speak, “the Black Star knows. It will not be necessary for
me to go into town and make arrangements with the jewelers and the chief.”

“But——” Riley began, and stopped and looked at the paper again. “Yesterday
afternoon I discussed the matter with Riley,” Verbeck went on. “We sat here at
the table and talked in ordinary tones. Last evening the three of us discussed
it, sitting at the table and speaking softly. I doubt whether a man, had he even
been in the bedroom adjoining, could have understood us clearly. Yet the Black
Star knows all about it—he knew in time to have that letter reach the newspaper
by two o’clock in the morning. I, for one, am certain I did not communicate with
the Black Star or any of his crooks.”

He turned his back upon them again, and looked through the window. “But—but——”
Riley stammered. “Why, nobody except the three of us knew anything about it!”

“Exactly!” said Verbeck. “Then how—— You don’t think I tipped it off in any
way?”

“Boss,” cried Muggs, “you don’t suppose I——”

“I am not thinking, or supposing, anything about it,” said Verbeck. “We are
confronted by facts.”

“Well, let’s consider the matter squarely,” Riley offered. “Even if we take it
for granted that either Muggs or myself is a member of the Black Star’s band,
when would either of us have had a chance to betray the plan?”

“You went outdoors and prowled around considerable about midnight,” Muggs said.
“You had a chance then.”

“If it comes to that, my impetuous friend, you were alone in the kitchen
yesterday afternoon while Roger and I were discussing the matter. You were there
when mysterious black stars got stuck on a loaf of bread and when there was an
alleged mysterious assault on your own person committed by somebody who could
not have been in the house at the time.” Riley showed some anger in his voice.
“You accusin’ me?” Muggs demanded. “You accused me, didn’t you?”

Verbeck turned away from the window and walked to the table. “Suppose we cease
all accusations,” he said. “I cannot think either of you would do such a thing.
Muggs has demonstrated his loyalty to me scores of times. You, Riley, owed your
start in life to my father, and have known me since I was a toddling baby. I
can’t believe either of you guilty of this. And yet—there are the facts. Only we
three knew—and the Black Star knew soon afterward. We’ll just call this another
little mystery added to those that have gone before. Eat your rolls and drink
your coffee. We’ll not discuss the matter further now.”

Riley and Muggs made pretense of eating as Verbeck walked to the door and went
out on the veranda again, but for the most part they glared at each other across
the table, each suspicious of the other apparently. The telephone rang, and
Verbeck hurried in from the veranda to answer it. It was the chief speaking.
“Everything all right out there?” he asked. “Good! Say, is that right, what the
papers say about you planning that trap about the necklace?”

“Yes,” Verbeck answered. “But, how the deuce——”

“I don’t know,” Verbeck interrupted. “There evidently was a leak somewhere, yet
it seems impossible. It’s just one of those things that cannot be explained.”

“Anything can be explained,” the chief declared. “But we’ll have to talk of that
affair later. I’ve just had a telephone message from the editor of one of the
evening papers. He received a letter from the Black Star through the morning
mail. The Black Star says he is going to pull off that big crime of his within
twenty-four hours. So get on your toes, you people! I suppose he means to-
night.”

“What plans have you made?” Verbeck asked. “Of course, we have no idea what he
is going to do. We’re having special guards around the largest banks and trust
companies. All we can do is to wait for an alarm. When we get it we can rush to
the spot and take up the trail. We’ll keep in touch with you.”

Again there came that peculiar, rattling noise they had heard once before while
holding a telephone conversation. Both Verbeck and the chief waited for the
voice they knew they would hear. “Hello!” it said. “This is the Black Star! I’m
too busy to talk long, so please listen—and do not swear over the wire, chief. I
have been listening to your interesting conversation. Make all the preparations
you like, chief, but they’ll avail you nothing. You’ll be sufficiently startled
before daybreak to-morrow morning. I will mention, too, that I am going to
commit this crime myself, without any aid whatever. As for you, Mr. Roger
Verbeck, you will be the laughingstock of the city to-morrow, so prepare to be
ridiculed.”

“Indeed?” Roger said. “Another thing, Mr. Verbeck. I know every word you have
said to Detective Riley and Muggs this morning. You wrong them, Mr. Verbeck,
with your suspicions. I was but waiting for some one to call you up so I could
break in and tell you so. You see, if I called myself you might be able to trace
the call. Neither of the men, Mr. Verbeck, sent me information regarding the
clever trap you proposed. I just simply knew. I know everything! Good-by!”

Again the rattling sound, and then Roger Verbeck heard nothing over the wire
except the explosive profanity of the chief of police, who finally gave the
information that he would call again later, and rang off. Verbeck turned from
the instrument with a beaming face, and hurried forward to clasp Riley and Muggs
by their hands. “I was a fool to doubt either of you a second,” he said. “The
Black Star has just proved to me that it wasn’t necessary for either of you to
turn traitor.”

“Was that crook on the wire again?” Muggs demanded. “He certainly was—broke in
while I was speaking to the chief. He told me he knew what I had been saying to
you here a very few minutes ago, and that I was unjust in my suspicions.”

“If either of us were guilty he might say that just to help us out—to make you
think we were all right so we could go on doing his dirty work,” Riley warned.
“But the fact that he knew our conversation of a few minutes ago shows he might
have heard us speaking yesterday about the trap. I am quite sure neither of you
have had a chance to communicate with him in the past half hour.”

Riley rose ponderously from the table and crashed a fist down on it. “Then tell
me,” he said, “how this crook knows what we say here in this room!”

“I wish I knew!”

“We’ve searched this house from bottom to top, and he isn’t in it. To hear what
we said he’d either have to be in the basement under us or in an adjoining room,
and then he couldn’t hear half of it. This thing gets my goat!”

“Then here is something that’ll please you, Riley. The Black Star has sent
another letter to a paper, so the chief told me, saying he’s going to commit
this big crime of his within the next twenty-four hours. I suppose he means
during the night some time.”

“Then we’ll get on his trail!” Riley shouted. “We won’t have to work in the dark
any more. At least we’ll know where to start. He’s got to come out of hiding to
commit a crime, and we can trail him from where he pulls it off!”

“Yes, and where will that be?” Muggs asked. “Wherever it is, we’ll have
something to start on. I just want a start—that’s all! That crook’s going too
far with his mysterious black stars and his telephone stunts and mind-reading
performances! He’ll make a slip! Never a crook lived that didn’t make a slip
some time!”

“I’d like to know how those stars got on that loaf and how I got tapped on the
head!” Muggs announced. “That Black Star must be able to make himself
invisible!”

Riley snorted. “He’s a human man, and that’s all there is to it—a clever, human
man!” the detective declared. “And we’re clever, human men! We’ll get him! And
he’ll be visible enough when we do! There never was a mystery that didn’t have a
common, everyday solution, if a man’s wise enough to know how to look at things.
Twenty-four hours, eh? Some time to-night? We’ll be crazy before he pulls off
his trick—crazy from waiting! You’re sure that roadster is loaded with gas,
Verbeck?”

“I’m sure, Riley. Every officer in town knows that roadster, and the chief has
issued orders that we are to be allowed to smash all speed limits if we see
fit.”

“Then all we can do is wait—wait for the alarm. It may come in ten minutes, and
it may come at two o’clock to-morrow morning. And waitin’ is the worst thing I
do!”

The day passed, every hour seeming an age. Muggs cooked the evening meal with
head cocked for the sound of the telephone bell. Riley paced the floor, looking
at his automatic and handcuffs every half hour. Verbeck smoked innumerable
cigars and betrayed nervousness in innumerable ways. Nine o’clock came and
passed—ten—eleven. Midnight struck! The telephone rang! Verbeck reached the
instrument in two bounds, and Muggs and Riley were close behind him, ready for a
dash, Muggs with his hand on the doorknob. “Hello!” Verbeck cried. “Hello!
Hello! Mr. Verbeck?”

It was a woman’s voice, one that Verbeck never had heard before, an excited
woman’s voice. “This is Mr. Verbeck.”

“Listen! I may not have a chance to repeat! Do you want to locate the Black Star
before he commits his crime? Do you want to learn why he has heard everything
you’ve said there?”

“Who is this?” Verbeck tried to control his voice and speak in a matter-of-fact
way. “Never mind my name. I have a reason for what I am now doing. You must act
quickly. Take all the help you can get. You have police there—take them all!”

“Yes; but what——”

“Listen, please! I will not have a chance to telephone again. Look around your
living room. Look at the center leg of your table. And then—follow the wire! All
the help you can get—act quickly—and follow the wire!”

And the unknown woman rang off. Verbeck whirled to the others, speaking rapidly,
starting back across the room toward the table. With Muggs and Riley beside him,
he went down on his knees to investigate the center leg. Riley was the fortunate
one. An exclamation of disgust escaped him. “Boobs! Boobs! That’s what we are! A
common, everyday dictograph disk! And we never thought of it! Look!”

He pointed to the bit of metal. CHAPTER XXI—THE END OF THE WIRE

“Follow the wire!”

The unknown woman’s words seemed to ring in Verbeck’s head. “We must decide
instantly,” he said. “Shall we follow the wire or remain here and await an
alarm?”

“Follow the wire!” Riley advised. “That woman is one of the Black Star’s gang
that’s turned against him. She’s tipped us off right, and I’ll bet on it! It’s
only a few minutes after midnight. It shouldn’t take us long. Dictograph! Huh!
No wonder he knew everything we said. Poor boobs!”

“Do we go alone, or take the police?” Verbeck asked. “Let’s take ’em. It won’t
hurt, and may do a great deal of good. We’ll have the sergeant leave one man
here to take any telephone message that comes.”

Riley ran to the door and blew his whistle. Verbeck and Muggs already were at
work. Before Riley could instruct the sergeant that a man be detailed to remain
at the house while the others followed, Verbeck and Muggs had pulled the heavy
table to one side—to find the wire passing through a tiny hole in the floor and
into the basement. Verbeck led the way below. The wire was picked up easily,
running to an outside wall and through it. On the outside it went up the side of
the house, beside a water pipe, thence to a tree near by. “Follow the wire—and
be quick about it!” Riley commanded the sergeant and his men. The police knew
only that this had something to do with the pursuit of the Black Star, but the
excitement of Verbeck and his companions was infectious, and they went at their
work eagerly, sensing that seconds were precious. Electric torches flashed as
they surrounded the tree, and one man prepared to climb. “There it runs!” Riley
shouted. “Flash your lights! See it? To the other tree!”

Thus they crossed the yard to a corner, going from tree to tree, flashing their
lamps always on that slim, long-hanging wire. “Whoever heard of a dictograph
wire this long!” Riley exclaimed. “Nobody but the Black Star would use it. No
telling where it runs—and we haven’t a great deal of time! Send back another
man, sergeant, to stand by the house and bring us news if there’s a telephone
call. Send one who can drive Verbeck’s roadster to us!”

A man was selected and sent, and the tracing of the wire went on. They came to
the corner, and there the wire sprang from a tree to a telephone pole, and
across the street to another pole, then to an unimproved block of land, where it
ran from tree to tree as before. Led by Verbeck and Riley, with Muggs at their
heels, the police waded through snowdrifts, crashed through wet underbrush,
rending the black night with the light of their torches. The wire twisted from
tree to tree, never more than a few feet above the ground. “Whoever laid that
wire didn’t waste any time,” Riley said. They lost it in a clump of brush, but
found it again. Every man of them was wet to the waist now from breaking through
the drifts of snow, but their enthusiasm was not dampened. “We’ve been half an
hour already!” Muggs protested. “How far does this thing run?”

No one took the trouble to answer him. They had crossed the unimproved block at
last and reached another street. Once more the wire sprang to the crosspiece of
a telephone pole, and across the street to another. Now it ran along the edge of
a private park to a narrow alley, and there it followed the roof line of sheds.
They began exercising some caution now, for there was no telling where the wire
would end, or when, and they did not care to stumble on the retreat of the Black
Star unprepared for a clash. Muggs, some paces ahead of the others, strained
eyes and ears to detect the presence of a foe. Muggs didn’t feel sure they had
done right in following the wire, but he realized that the tip from the unknown
woman was one that could not have been ignored. At the end of the alley, the
wire ran in the direction of a cross street. Here it was suspended from the
trees again, but higher, and there was difficulty in following it. It took half
an hour to reach the next corner, and there the wire turned back toward
Verbeck’s house. “’Tis a quarter after one,” Riley said. “There’s been no alarm
from headquarters, or we’d have had the man coming after us in the roadster. But
where the deuce does this wire run?”

Down the street a block, around the corner, went the wire, from tree to tree,
now high in the air and now looped low. To the alley again, and down it in the
black night! Here, their torches flashing, they followed it from shed to shed,
and finally came to where it ran down the side of a garage and so reached the
ground. Muggs dug frantically with his hands until the snow had been thrown to
one side. The wire ran beneath a board, and half a dozen men scraped snow away
until the board could be raised, Verbeck and Riley working frantically and
urging on the others. The board ended at the edge of an iron manhole, and Riley,
with a muttered curse, got up from his knees. “Into the sewer!” he exclaimed.
“Into the sewer! Think o’ that!”

“It’s a fake—we’ve been done!” Muggs declared. “’Tis no fake!” Riley protested.
“Here’s the wire, and we was told to follow it, wasn’t we? Into the sewer!”

“Off with that cover!” Verbeck shouted, stepping forward and taking command.
“You’ve forgotten something, Riley. This is the old sewer, and has been used for
two or three years as a conduit for gas pipes and electric wires. There’s no
sewage in it.”

Riley’s exclamation of relief showed that he had forgotten. Like madmen they
worked at the covering of the manhole, smashing the ice around it, tearing at it
with their hands until they were raw and bleeding. Presently they hurled it to
one side. “In we go!” Verbeck said. “And let’s try to make better time!”

“Easy there! We go—but we go prepared!” Riley said. “I’ll go first, if you don’t
mind, Roger. Some of the Black Star’s gentlemen friends might be waiting in this
old sewer with implements of destruction to greet us.”

He flashed his torch, and lowered himself. A moment later they heard his call,
and one by one they slipped from the alley into the big bore in the earth, the
last man letting the manhole covering fall into place. Straight ahead they went
now, bending low, dodging elbows of big gas mains, on the alert for uninsulated
electric wires. The cement walls were covered with frost, the air was like that
of a refrigerator. They made a turning, and went on, always following the little
wire that had been looped along the joints of the gas main. And always they were
on the alert, flashing their torches ahead, expecting to be greeted any instant
by some show of hostility. They knew the reputation of the Black Star—these men.
Perhaps, after all, this was his trick. Perhaps they would find themselves
prisoners underground, or face some new peril the master criminal had invented
for their discomfiture. Another curve in the big bore, with Riley stopping them
and creeping ahead to peer around the bend, and be sure no danger waited! They
made their way along as swiftly as they could now, their teeth chattering, their
hands numb with the cold. And now the wire ran to the roof again, along a
smaller gas main, and so to another manhole. “Out again into the night!” Riley
grunted. “What do you know about that? Well—let’s get after it!”

They got beneath the manhole covering and fought to get it free. It was
heartbreaking work, for the covering had a weight of snow above it, and ice
filled every crevice. But finally they felt it give, and after a time forced it
a short distance to one side, the snow caving in upon them. Muggs crawled up and
dug at the snow! Inch by inch they forced the manhole covering back, and finally
they emerged into the open air and closed the covering again. They traced the
wire to a tree at the end of the alley, and from there to a telephone pole, and
across the street in the usual manner. They spoke but seldom now. They were
almost exhausted; more than one feared they had been hoaxed. Again they flashed
their torches and followed the wire, once more across the corner of an
unimproved lot, across another street, and then——

“Wh-what?” Riley cried. “Do you see where we are? Back to Verbeck’s place—that’s
what! On the other side of the house!”

He would have said more, but Verbeck’s grasp on his arm stopped him. Into
Verbeck’s heart had come a sudden fear, and he didn’t see the advisability of
the sergeant and the police squad knowing everything. “What kind of a stunt is
this?” the sergeant growled. “Never mind!” Riley counseled sternly, aware of
what the end might be. “We’ve been following this wire, haven’t we? Very well!
We had a reason for wanting to know where it ran. And that’s all.”

The sergeant subsided, but he guessed that it was not all. They were in the yard
of the Verbeck place again now, the wire running from tree to tree as before.
Finally it sprang to the side of the house, and down it to a window in a rear
room. There Riley, who was leading, stopped. “That’s all for the present,
sergeant,” he said. “Go inside and get warm—you and the men. If there’s been any
telephone message, come out and tell us.”

The men needed no second invitation to hurry to the fire, and they followed the
sergeant rapidly around the corner of the house toward the veranda, leaving
Verbeck and Riley and Muggs alone beneath the window. “Well?” Riley said.
“Follow it!” Verbeck commanded. “It must end somewhere. And we don’t need the
squad with us when we find the end.”

“That’s the way I looked at it. Great Scott, what a chase! Through the snow and
through the sewer——”

“No message!” the sergeant shouted from the veranda. Muggs raised the window.
They crept over the sill into the dusty room. Again Riley’s torch flashed, and
they saw the wire running up the side of the window to the ceiling and through
it. “To the floor above!” Verbeck said. They ran to the stairs and went up. As
they passed the door of the living room, they saw the policemen standing before
the big fireplace, extending their numb hands to the blaze. They had no
difficulty locating the wire on the second floor. It came from below, and ran up
the side of a window. It followed the border of the wall paper, and once more it
penetrated a ceiling. “Into the garret!” Riley said. They ran up the narrow
stairs. Riley and Muggs both held their automatics ready now, and Verbeck
reached for his. They threw open the door opening into one of the half-finished
rooms. There was the wire, almost hidden as it ran along the bottom of the
window. It followed a wide crack in the floor across the room. It disappeared
into the wall. Riley raised a hand for silence, and pointed to the floor. “We
were blind before,” he whispered. “See those tracks? Whoever made them scattered
dust behind him. They’re almost obliterated—but there they are! We didn’t use
our eyes before. And that wire——”

“Must run into the old toy closet,” Verbeck interrupted. “But—see here! The door
of the closet is locked on this side, and you can see it hasn’t been opened.”

“You’re right—it hasn’t! But we’ll just take a look!”

Verbeck turned the key. Muggs and Riley focused the light of their torches on
the door, and held their automatics ready. Verbeck sprang aside and hurled the
door open. The interior of the closet was flooded with light. All three gasped
as they looked. No Black Star menaced them with weapon. No diabolical engine of
destruction was there. But there was the end of the wire! CHAPTER XXII—ON THE
SCENT

“He’s done it! He said he’d make me a laughingstock—and he’s done it!”

Verbeck’s exclamation brought them to their senses. They stepped through the
door. There was a blanket, a store of provisions, a telephone that they knew
without examination had been connected with the one in the living room below,
and the end of the dictograph wire. Fastened to the telephone were several
sheets of paper. Verbeck tore them away, and while Muggs and Riley held their
torches he read in a low voice the Black Star’s message:

“Mr. Roger Verbeck: I am assuming you have answered the call of   the damsel and
have followed the wire. The snow is somewhat   deeper than when the wire was
stretched by me, and possibly you   have been put to some inconvenience, but it
was necessary, I   assure you. I trust you liked your trip through the old
sewer. “I thank you for your hospitality, for here I have lived beneath   your
roof since escaping the silly police. “I thank you cordially for the police
protection afforded me   while the chief had his dragnet in operation. It was
amusing to   look from the window and watch the officers guarding the house
carefully to see that I was not disturbed.”

“If ever I get my hands on that devil——” Riley exclaimed. “Keep still, Riley—let
me finish it! There may be need for haste yet.”

Verbeck read on:

“I said I’d make you a laughingstock, and I have. To-night I   send letters to
the papers telling them how I hid in your own   house, listened to all your
plans over a dictograph, and tapped   your telephone wire. You cannot hope to
match wits with the   Black Star. “It was very simple. I came here the night I
escaped, after   visiting your apartment and mailing a few letters. Only two of
my band knew of my whereabouts and aided me—one of them the   charming woman who
told you to follow the wire. “The second night I strung the dictograph wire,
tapped the   telephone, and carried my provisions here. Then I attacked the
apartment-house clerk. I felt very confident you’d move here   after that, and I
guessed correctly. “You came. I rested and ate and listened to your
conversations. At night, by means of a candle, I signaled from the window to a
friend, who took down my messages for the papers and the chief   of police. “It
has been great entertainment, I assure you. It was very   convenient for me to
keep in touch in this way.”

“That’s sarcasm for you!” Riley exploded. “Quiet!” Verbeck demanded, and read
on:

“Is there anything to explain? Ah, yes! My mode of entrance was   not through
the door. I strung the wire to the wall and through   the hole there, retreated
after covering my tracks with dust,   and entered in a different place. Perhaps
you know your old   family estate, Mr. Verbeck, and perhaps not. If you will
look at   the end of this closet you’ll see a section of wall that can be
removed. I fixed that. It opens into an old, wide chimney. At   some time when
the house was remodeled, and the new chimney   built, a part of this old one was
left intact, probably to save   the trouble of remodeling the garret. Inside the
chimney you   will find a rope ladder—not very well made, it is true, yet
serviceable. Descend, and you’ll be able to get into the new   chimney. Go down
far enough and you will find yourself beside   the hood over the kitchen stove.
“By extending a hand down while you three were in the living   room, I was able
to put on your loaf of bread the black stars   that bothered you so much. I was
able in the same manner to tap   Mr. Muggs on the head as he bent over his pots
and pans. It was   a scientific tap, and as he reeled I clutched him by the
collar   and decorated his forehead with a star. Very simple, I assure   you. “I
nearly laughed aloud when Riley built the big fire to smoke   me out if I
happened to be in the chimney. I had got back into   the old chimney, of course,
and closed the opening by that time. “Thanks once more for your splendid
hospitality. To-night being   the time for my best effort so far in your city, I
must leave   you. My new headquarters have been arranged by my friends, and I
am sure they’ll prove much more comfortable. I’ll direct my work   from there
hereafter. “Since I had to get away from your house, I had a certain woman
call you up and tell you to follow the wire. I knew it would   take an hour or
two for you to do so. After you had gone, I   descended the chimney, slipped out
of the back door. At least,   that is what I intend doing after writing this
letter, and I am   sure my plans will come out all right. “I would like to use
your splendid roadster again as I leave,   but cannot, as I have made other
plans. “And now, Mr. Verbeck, search this closet well, and you’ll find   a short
note telling you what I intend doing to-night. The   search may delay you a
little, and delay will help me.”

*****

As Verbeck finished reading, and crammed the letter into his pocket, Riley,
muttering madly to himself, began pawing among the Black Star’s provisions in
search of the note. Muggs attacked a pile of old toys in a corner. Verbeck stood
still in the center of the closet for a moment, astounded. The Black Star had
hidden in _his_ house, with the police guard around it! The Black Star had sent
word to the newspapers of what he had done. Laughingstock! Roger Verbeck would
not dare show his face among his friends, unless—— There was one way to wipe out
this slur the Black Star had thrown upon him—by capturing the master criminal at
his work! Verbeck joined in the search. Working frantically, they hurled toys
around the closet, scattered cans and boxes of provisions, shook blankets. Then
Verbeck remembered the opening in the wall, and sought until he found it. There,
pinned to the top rung of the crude rope ladder, was the note. “Read it, quick,
boss!” Muggs begged. “I want to get my hands on that crook! I’ll show him how to
tap me on the head!”

Verbeck read quickly:

“As you have said, I love jewels—especially diamonds. There is a   new shipment
in the city that exceeds in value even your famous   necklace, Mr. Verbeck. The
general public does not know of this   shipment, which has just been received.
But, having ways of   finding out things, I do know of it. “To-night I raid the
vault of Jones & Co., diamond importers, on   the second floor of the National
Building.”

*****

With a roar that could have been heard half a block, Detective Riley sprang
through the door and toward the head of the stairs, Muggs and Roger Verbeck at
his heels. Four steps at a time they took the two flights, and burst into the
living room like madmen, startling the officers there. “Quick!” Riley cried to
the sergeant. “Call headquarters, private line! Tell them to surround block of
National Building. Black Star’s raiding Jones & Co.! You, Muggs! Start the car!
Ready, Verbeck?”

The sergeant whirled toward them. “Phone’s dead! Wires cut, I suppose!” he
reported. “Of course! Trust the Black Star not to forget that! Get the nearest
phone, sergeant—probably one across street!”

He dashed out, following Verbeck. They sprang into the roadster. Muggs sent the
machine shooting at the big gate, through it, into the broad boulevard, sounding
his horn like a maniac, jumping the powerful engine into its greatest speed.
CHAPTER XXXII.—INTO THE VAULT

Verbeck and Muggs had taken many wild rides in the big roadster, but nothing
that compared to this. On the boulevard, the street cleaners had removed most of
the snow, but the slush had frozen, and the going was treacherous. The car
skidded from side to side, at times almost turned end for end, lurched and
swayed sickeningly. Detective Riley gritted his teeth and clung to one end of
the seat in which Verbeck crouched. Muggs bent forward, squinting his eyes and
trying to get a clear view ahead. They turned corners and swept around curves at
dangerous speed, sprang down hills as if the car was some wild thing running for
life from a hereditary foe. It was half past two o’clock in the morning, and few
vehicles were abroad, a fact for which Muggs gave devout thanks. They reached
the edge of the business district, yet he did not slacken the car’s speed.
Detective Riley had said no word since the start—now he was the sleuth on the
trail, the officer of the law ready to try conclusions with the criminal.
Neither did Roger Verbeck speak, not even to shriek orders to Muggs, for Muggs
did not need orders, and Verbeck was thinking of the humiliation in store for
him unless the master criminal was caught. Muggs dodged an owl car by less than
a foot, and took a corner on two wheels. Riley would have been dashed from the
machine had not Verbeck flung an arm around him. Down another hill they raced,
and into a cross street, where the heavy traffic of the day had obliterated the
most of the slush, and the going was safer. They were within a few blocks of
their destination now. Verbeck and Riley were both wondering if the sergeant had
been able to get to another telephone and notify headquarters. The Black Star
might have a chance of escape if the block was not surrounded. And they were not
certain that he had not committed his theft and escaped already. He had had
plenty of time while they were following the dictagraph wire, especially since
it was certain his plans had been made carefully. Would they arrive in time to
find him at work? Or, would they find the door of the vault open and a fortune
in jewels gone? Riley bent over and screeched in Muggs’ ear:

“Stop that horn! And stop the machine at the corner this way!”

Muggs nodded that he understood. He drove around another corner, and swung the
roadster to a stop. Riley sprang to the walk, Verbeck and Muggs following
closely. They hurried around the corner and to the entrance of the big building.
Automatics and electric torches were held ready now. There was no watchman in
the entrance, and they started to creep up the stairs to the second floor. And
there, at the top of the marble steps, just in front of the heavy glass doors
that opened into the establishment of Jones & Co., they found the watchman. He
was stretched on the floor, bound and gagged and with a black star on his
forehead. Riley motioned for silence, and relieved the watchman of gag and
ropes. “He slipped up on me,” the man whispered. “He’s inside now.”

“Only one?”

“Just one man!” the watchman whispered. “He tapped me on the head and had me
gagged before I knew what was happening. Then he bound me. I’m sure there was
only one man. He unlocked the door with a key.”

“How long ago?”

“Half an hour or more.”

“Then he’s gone out some other way,” Riley whispered to the others. “He wouldn’t
stay in there that long. What’s the matter with headquarters, I wonder? I don’t
hear any siren. Here, you, watchman, go down and tell the men, when they come,
to surround the block, and send a few in here. We’ll go on in.”

The watchman tottered to the top of the stairs and started down. Riley drew
Verbeck and Muggs close to him. “No lights until we’re sure where we stand,” he
instructed. “He may be ready to shoot, if he’s still in there, and a light
furnishes a swell target. There’ll be a faint light inside, reflected from the
stairs. I know this place. This is the only entrance except a freight elevator
at the rear. There are windows, of course, that open into the court. I’m afraid
he’s gone that way! Ready? Come on, then, and keep your eyes open!”

Inch by inch Riley swung the glass door open, so as not to make any sound. Inch
by inch they crept inside and closed the door again. Here the aisles were
covered with thick carpets. An uncertain light came through the door and made
the interior of the gem store a mass of shadows. Before them was the general
retail salesroom, with its rows of counters and show cases on either side, and
its divans and chairs in the center. Slowly, carefully, holding weapons and
torches ready, they crept from shadow to shadow, scarcely daring to breathe,
fearing they would make a sound. They soon were convinced nobody was in the
salesroom. They came to the partition in the rear, and found the door partly
open. Here they redoubled their caution. If the Black Star was present he was
somewhere behind that partition. Riley opened the door carefully, and they
stepped inside. Here they found a dim light, too, coming in from the street.
Here were tables where diamonds were displayed to purchasing merchants, sets of
mirrors so an employee could see the entire interior at a glance, and, at the
opposite end of the room, the door to the great vault of Jones & Co.—the vault
that held always a fortune in jewels and was supposed to be impregnable. They
crouched—and looked. Verbeck drew in his breath sharply. The door of the vault
stood open. In it, his back toward them, gloating over a handful of jewels,
was—the Black Star! As they watched, they heard him chuckle softly, saw him
throw up his head—_and walk into the vault_! CHAPTER XXIV—HOW IT ENDED

Verbeck’s whisper was so low that Riley and Muggs scarcely could hear it, yet
they could detect the note of exultation:

“We’ve got him!”

That was all, and then they started to creep forward, their eyes on the vault,
from which not a bit of light came. The Back Star evidently was working in the
dark. Foot by foot they made their way noiselessly toward the open door,
expecting every instant to see their quarry step forth and confront them, ready
to prevent him fighting his way to liberty. They listened, too, for the sound of
feet in the room behind them that would tell of the arrival of the police, but
the sound of feet did not come. And now, at last, they were within six feet of
the open door, staring into the blackness of the vault, from which came not the
slightest sound. Verbeck felt his heart pounding at his ribs like a trip hammer
as they waited. The seconds passed. Then Riley spoke in a low, tense tone, yet
his voice seemed to roar through the place:

“Come out, Mr. Black Star! We’ve got you!”

Silence their answer! “Come out! Why delay the game?”

Still no answer. Riley reached out and touched Verbeck, touched Muggs, a
voiceless command for action. They crept forward again, Verbeck to one side,
Muggs on the other, Riley directly before the door. Now they were in the
shadows, and between them and the door was but a faint streak of light that came
through the windows from the street—a streak of light they would have to cross
to reach the vault door. What would happen when they crossed that streak of
light? Riley imagined he knew. Verbeck felt sure that he knew. Muggs already
imagined he heard the cracking of an automatic, grunts of pain, faced the
whirlwind charge of a desperate, cornered man, fighting his way to freedom.
“Come out!” Riley commanded again. “Come—or we’ll come in after you!”

Still no answer. Riley crouched and held the torch high above his head in his
left hand, ready to touch the button and send a shaft of light into the vault.
In his right hand he held the automatic, safety catch off, ready to fire on the
instant. He touched the button. Light shot through the blackness and illuminated
a pathway through the vault door and to the interior. From side to side Riley
swung his light, expecting every instant to hear the shot he anticipated. There
was no man in the light’s path, but it did not penetrate to the corners. Riley
expelled his breath in a great gasp of determination, and slipped forward.
Verbeck and Muggs closed in. If the Black Star was waiting for them to rush,
then the moment for the rush had arrived. Muggs could endure the suspense no
longer. His nerves were on edge. He gave a subdued squeal and sprang across the
path of light, grasped the door, hurled it shut, twisted the handle. “We’ve got
him—got him!” he screeched. Riley’s light showed the perspiration standing out
on his forehead in great globules. “Why did you do that?” the detective
demanded. “We’ve got him! Turn on the lights! The police will be here in a
minute, then he’ll have no chance to escape!”

Riley would have had it otherwise, and Roger Verbeck had anticipated having the
Black Star in shackles by the time the police arrived, but that could not be
helped now. Riley went around the room until he found the electric switch; he
threw it, and the room was suddenly brilliant with light. “Well, we’ve got him,
anyway,” Verbeck said. “The Black Star may be able to get into a vault, but I’ll
defy him to get out of that one except by the door.”

“Yes, and he’ll be dead before he gets out that way, if some one who can open
that vault doesn’t come soon. Where’s a telephone?”

He saw one in a corner, and rushed toward it and gave the private number. “That
you, chief?” he asked. “This is Riley? Have you sent men? What’s that—just
started? Great Scott—— He did, eh? Say, chief, have the desk sergeant telephone
to the manager of Jones & Co. to hurry down here. We’ve got the Black Star
locked in the vault, and have to get it unlocked. Yes—sure!”

He hung up the receiver and turned to the others. “Men on the way,” he said.
“The chief says he just got the telephone message. Says the sergeant said he
tried three phones near your place, and all of them had wires cut. Pretty smooth
article, that Black Star—but we’ve got him! There they come now!”

From the distance came the sound of a siren, the clanging of a patrol-wagon
bell. Then the pounding feet on the marble stairs, loud commands, and men rushed
into the establishment of Jones & Co.

“We’ve got him!” Riley exulted. “Caught him at it! Locked him in the vault! And
now we’ll stand around until the manager gets here and works the combination. He
played a smooth game, all right—ask Mr. Verbeck about it. But we got him! I
reckon he’s mighty sorry now that he stayed in town to make a fool out of Mr.
Verbeck.”

They waited, crowding about the place, talking excitedly in whispers, debating
whether the Black Star would put up a fight when the door was opened, whether
he’d commit suicide and cheat the law, now that he was cornered. Then the chief
came beaming, dreaming of the vindication of his department the newspapers would
have to grant. He grasped Verbeck by the hand warmly, patted Muggs on the back,
congratulated Detective Riley. “I didn’t tip off the reporters this time,” he
said. “Too late for ’em, anyway. They’ll get it in the noon editions to-day,
though. Laugh at the police department, will they? Not after this!”

And then the manager of Jones & Co. arrived, a gentleman the personification of
dignity generally, but at present the personification of excitement and dread.
He stammered when he talked, and threw up his hands in horror when he saw his
establishment crowded with police, and it took the chief some minutes to assure
him that his property was safe and the would-be thief locked in the vault. He
advanced to the door and prepared to work the combination. His nervousness
caused him to make a mistake at first, but finally he nodded that all that was
necessary to open the door was to turn the handle. The manager retreated then,
to hide behind a show case in fear of flying bullets. “Might as well come out,
Mr. Black Star, and take your medicine!” Riley cried “We’ve got twenty men here,
with guns pointing at that door. You make a hostile move when we open it, and
you’ll see your finish!”

He nodded to the police, twisted the handle, and threw the door open. Light
flooded the interior of the vault. Half a dozen officers, Riley at their head,
rushed. A cry of consternation came from the detective. Verbeck and Muggs
crowded through to look inside. On the floor of the vault were empty trays that
had held jewels. Among them were empty chamois bags. Mountings of inferior value
were scattered about. But no master criminal stood before them, ready for
battle, or in token of surrender! “Gone!” Muggs cried. “But he can’t be gone!”
Riley shrieked. “We saw him step into the vault! We came right up, never taking
our eyes from the door! Muggs slammed the door and twisted the combination.
There’s no way in or out except the door!”

“Gone!” Verbeck echoed. The chief of police swore. The manager of Jones & Co.,
who had left his place of safety, tore his hair and lamented his loss and
berated the police. “He—he can’t be gone!” Riley reiterated. Verbeck, his heart
sinking, stepped inside and looked around. Fastened in the corner of one of the
trays was what he had feared he would find—a letter written by the Black Star
and addressed to himself. He read it swiftly, then handed it to the chief, and
threw wide his hands in a gesture of momentary despair. And this is what he had
read:

Mr. Verbeck and Aids: I am leaving this because I assume you’ll   find my other
note at the house and follow me here. I dare say   that, when you entered you
saw me standing before the open door   of the vault. You watched, and saw me
enter the vault. Did you   not? You did not! Your eyes deceived you! I intend
waiting here   until you arrive, to add one more small bit to my evening’s
entertainment. Illusion, my dear Mr. Verbeck—all illusion. The dim light coming
in from the street, you know, helps some. You will notice that   there are many
mirrors scattered around the room. I took the   liberty of moving a few of them
to serve my purpose. Go back to   the door at which you entered and look at the
vault. Have your   silly Muggs stand ten feet to the right of the door to the
room. Now look at the vault, Mr. Verbeck, and it will appear that the   silly
Muggs is standing in the vault door. You follow? Simple,   old-fashioned mirror
illusion that won’t even go at country   fairs any more. And you fell for that!
For, when you enter the room, I shall be standing within ten   feet of you, and
you’ll imagine you see me in the vault door,   and creep forward. I’ll take two
steps to the right, and you’ll   think I have entered the vault. You’ll advance
toward it, and   I’ll step outside quietly to the window that opens on the
court,   let myself down a rope already prepared, and be on my way—with   this
excellent collection of diamonds. All thought out   beforehand, you see! I have
made you a laughingstock, as I promised, but I am not   done with you yet. I
defy you again, Roger Verbeck, as I defy   the police. You’ll hear from me soon.
*****

They snapped out the lights and tried it—Muggs standing where the Black Star had
said—and found it was so. They went to the court and found an open window from
which a rope dangled to the ground floor below. Then they placed a guard and
went out, leaving the manager to estimate and bemoan his loss. “He’s a devil—a
devil!” the chief was muttering. “He’s human—and we’ll get him yet!” Roger
Verbeck answered, and the fighting look was in his face when he spoke. CHAPTER
XXV—SHADOWED BY THREE

Roger Verbeck’s powerful, four-seated roadster, its curtains up against the fine
drizzle of rain, and with Muggs at the wheel, drew up when the traffic policeman
raised a warning hand, and waited for the cross-town stream of vehicles and
pedestrians to pass. It was eight o’clock in the evening, and the streets were
thronged. Crowds were hurrying toward the theaters; more crowds were making for
a big automobile show, and others were hastening toward a large hall, where
there was to be a mass meeting, at which infuriated speakers would demand that
the police department of the city capture instantly the Black Star, the
notorious master criminal, who, with his band of clever crooks, had terrorized
the city for half a year. Verbeck’s car was of foreign make and of peculiar
appearance, and it was natural that it should be recognized. Muggs bent over the
wheel and gritted his teeth as he heard the expressions passed by pedestrians,
and the young man beside him looked straight ahead as if seeing nothing and
hearing nothing. “When you goin’ to get the Black Star?”

“What’s Black Star payin’ you to hold off, Verbeck?”

“That crook’s too much for you, ain’t he?”

“Well, well—so he hasn’t caught you again?”

Those were samples of the remarks being passed, and they made Muggs want to get
from the roadster and fight his way into the midst of the mob. Muggs knew better
than any one else how Verbeck, since the memorable day when the Black Star had
dared the young millionaire to capture him, had tried every means in his power
to get hands on the master criminal. The Black Star had written again to Roger
Verbeck, saying that he and his man Muggs would be abducted by the Black Star’s
men, taken to the master crook’s new headquarters, for which they had been
searching in vain, and from there taken to the scene of a big crime. They would
be forced to stand by under guard and watch the crime committed, and then they
would be treated to shots from the vapor gun the Black Star and his men used,
and left unconscious on the spot—laughingstocks for the public. That letter had
been sent to the newspapers three weeks before, and as yet the Black Star had
not abducted Roger Verbeck and Muggs. The criminal, in another letter to the
papers, insisted that this was not because he had not had an opportunity to
effect the abduction, but because preparations had not been completed for the
next big crime. So now, as Verbeck’s roadster waited at the corner, those who
recognized the car and its occupants enjoyed a few moments of sarcastic abuse.
It was nothing to the general public that Verbeck had spent time and money in an
effort to capture the master criminal after the police had failed, that he had
risked his life half a score of times, and once even had been accused of
belonging to the Black Star’s band himself. The unthinking public looked only at
results—and there had been none. Muggs and Verbeck and the few thinkers in the
city knew well that, if the Black Star was caught, these thoughtless ones would
be the first to praise Verbeck loudly; but in the meantime the sarcasm was
highly unpleasant. After a time the traffic cop turned and raised a hand, and
Muggs growled again and threw in the clutch and piloted the heavy car across the
street and down the broad avenue. They were out of the congested district within
a few minutes, and speeding along a boulevard that led to a section of the city
where large and modern apartment houses were to be found. Half a block behind
Verbeck’s roadster a man trailed on a motor cycle, seemingly paying no attention
to the car ahead, but in reality keeping close watch on it. A short distance
behind the motor cycle trailed a runabout with one man in it. The runabout was a
small car, but a mechanician could have told after a second glance that it was a
powerful one. The man in the runabout was watching both the motor cycle and
Verbeck’s car. A short distance behind the runabout was a lightweight truck.
Behind the wheel of the truck was a young man, who appeared eager to get home
after an overtime delay in making deliveries. He wore greasy overalls and
jumper, and a slouch hat pulled well down over his eyes. The collar of the
jumper was turned up to keep out the drizzle. Thus the procession moved along
the broad boulevard, and, after a time, Verbeck’s roadster drew up at the curb
in front of an imposing apartment house. Muggs remained behind the wheel, but
the man he had been driving got out and hurried into the building. It was
natural that he did so, for on the ground floor lived his fiancée. The threat of
abduction, it appeared, did not keep Roger Verbeck from paying his customary
visits to his sweetheart. The man on the motor cycle pulled in at the curb on
the opposite side of the street, dismounted, and appeared to be tinkering with
his machine. The runabout passed him, and its driver bent out and spoke a few
words as it passed, the motor cyclist nodding in reply. Then the runabout went
around the next corner, where it stopped, its driver getting out and walking
slowly back up the boulevard, like a belated laborer on his way home. The light
truck did not pass Verbeck’s car. It turned into an alley and pulled up behind a
garage there. Its driver got out and walked quickly back to the mouth of the
alley, and there he peered around the corner of a high fence and down the
boulevard. He noticed that the motor cyclist had left his machine and crossed
the street and was approaching Verbeck’s roadster. He saw the man who had been
driving the runabout walking slowly from the other direction. The driver of the
truck chuckled lightly to himself and remained at the mouth of the alley in the
shadows, watching. CHAPTER XXVI—A MAN OF MYSTERY

Muggs, crouched down behind the wheel, watched the fine rain beat against the
wind shield of the roadster, and hoped he would not have to remain in that
position of inaction for long. He observed a man approaching along the sidewalk,
a man who glanced at the apartment houses as if seeking a certain one. Directly
opposite the roadster this man stopped, looked around for an instant, and then
hurried over to Muggs. “Know where the Albemarle Apartments might be?” he asked.
“They might be almost any place, but I’ve got an idea you’ll find them in the
middle of the next block,” Muggs replied. “It’s a big, white, brick building.”

“Thanks,” the other growled. He turned away—and as quickly turned back again.
Reflection from the light on the corner flashed from something he held in his
hand. A small cloud of vapor rushed at Muggs’ face. Muggs gasped, and his head
fell forward. Instantly the other man sprang into the roadster, lifted the
unconscious form of Muggs from the driver’s seat, and placed it in the rear
seat, afterward throwing a robe over it. Then he took Muggs’ place behind the
wheel, crouched forward, waiting. The motor cyclist stopped beside the roadster
at this moment. “Got him all right?” he asked. “Cinch! Muggs is now sleeping
peacefully in the rear beneath a heavy robe. I sure caught him off guard.”

“Well, Verbeck is the next job. He may stay in there talkin’ to his girl half
the night, and he may be out in three minutes. It’ll be a game of wait, I guess.
I’ll hang around to give help, if you need it, and be ready to jump in as soon
as you get him. You gave Muggs a heavy shot, didn’t you?”

“I guess he’s good for half an hour in dreamland, all right.”

“Verbeck wants to get a heavy shot, too. When we get out on the river road we
can bind and gag the two of ’em. Careful now. If we miss out on this the big
boss’ll half kill us.”

“I ain’t never failed him yet, not the Bl——”

“Cut it!” the motor cyclist exclaimed. “Be gentle with that name around these
parts. This is the home of Verbeck’s fiancée, remember, and Heaven knows what
sort of cops might be posted around here. I’d better duck now.”

He left the roadster and walked a short distance down the street, finally coming
to a stop against a wall. There he waited in the shadows, as did the driver of
the light truck at the mouth of the alley. The truck driver had witnessed the
undoing of Muggs, and had chuckled some at it, but had made no move to
interfere. Little cared he if the Black Star’s men rendered Roger Verbeck’s
chauffeur unconscious and hurled him into the rear of the roadster! Fifteen
minutes passed. The motor cyclist left his retreat and walked up and down the
street now and then. The man in Verbeck’s car remained crouched behind the wheel
of the machine, and the truck driver at the alley’s mouth did not change his
position. Then the front door of the apartment house was opened, and a man and
woman stood framed in it for a moment. The woman stepped back, and the door was
closed again; the man turned up the collar of his raincoat and stepped briskly
down the steps and toward the waiting roadster. The watcher at the mouth of the
alley betrayed some interest now. The motor cyclist left his place of seclusion
and walked forward slowly, head bent as if against the force of the storm.
“Home, Muggs!”

The man who had taken Muggs’ place reached forward as he heard the words and
found the seat beside him occupied. And for the second time that evening he
turned swiftly and discharged a cloud of vapor from the pistol he carried. For
the second time also that vapor rendered a man unconscious instantly. “Great!
Walked right into the trap!” It was the motor cyclist who spoke. He got into the
car and aided his companion in putting the second unconscious man in the rear,
under the robe. “Better let her out now!” he went on. “We’ve got ’em
both—Verbeck and Muggs. I reckon we caught ’em off their guard. They didn’t
expect to get that vapor stuff right here on the boulevard. Great idea of the
boss to always give a man what he doesn’t expect! I guess this’ll put a crimp
into young and handsome Mr. Verbeck. Nail the boss, will he? Huh!”

The other had turned the roadster, and now it darted up the boulevard at a speed
perilously near the limit allowed by city ordinance. From the mouth of the alley
darted the light truck, and took up the pursuit. The driver of it was chuckling
again, evidently at the ease with which the Black Star’s men had made Verbeck
and Muggs captives. The Verbeck roadster led the way up the boulevard, and,
after a time, turned into a side street. Down a long hill it dashed, with the
light truck following less than a block behind. Traffic was passing in both
directions, but the speed of roadster and truck did not diminish to any great
extent. Now the residence district was left behind, and the two machines were
passing through the dark wholesale district. Here the truck dropped a short
distance behind, and its driver glanced around frequently to see whether any
other machine was following. And then a railroad crossing was reached, and the
roadster was forced to stop against the gates while a long freight train was
pulled slowly by. The truck drove up and stopped behind it. The driver got down
and stepped across the sidewalk and into a cheap saloon on the corner there. He
came out again almost instantly, puffing at a cigar he had purchased. He stood
beside his truck, looking at the train, shaking the raindrops from his coat
collar. The two men in the front seats of the roadster glanced at him, but
apparently he gave them no attention. The end of the train rattled past; the
gates began to lift. The roadster started slowly forward across the tracks. The
man who had been driving the truck gave a quick spring—and landed on the rear of
the roadster, where there was a broad bulge in the body, with an extra wheel
lashed upon it. Top and curtains were up; the men in the roadster could not see
him. They were in the poorer part of the city now, and presently at the end of
the paved streets. Here there began a road that curved along the river, and,
after striking this road, the man driving the roadster got all speed possible
out of his machine. The other crept into the rear end, lifted the robe, gave the
two prisoners fresh shots from the vapor gun, and then bound and gagged them. On
and on they rushed through the night, the wheels hurling mud in all directions,
the brilliant headlights cutting a path through the darkness. They came to a
bridge, and so crossed the river. Here the man who rode on the rear end of the
car was exposed twice as it flashed under the bridge lights, but no bridge
tender observed him. It was a bad night—the tenders merely stepped to the doors
of their tiny houses, saw that a motor car was passing, and let it go at that.
On the other side of the river, the speed of the car decreased. After a time the
machine was driven from the main road into a sort of lane. Here the going was
slower yet, for the mud was deep and the roadbed cut into deep ruts. The car
lurched from side to side in such fashion that the man who rode behind was
almost hurled off. He could hear the men in the car talking now. “Nearly
there—better dim the headlights,” one of them was saying. Instantly the
headlights were dimmed, and in the semidarkness the car plowed on through the
mud. Now it approached an old house, from one window of which a light flashed.
The car was stopped. The man who had been riding behind dropped off into the mud
and crept through the black night toward the fence. One at a time, the two
unconscious prisoners were taken from the roadster, carried through a gate up a
walk, and to the front door of the old house. A bell would tinkle, the door
would be opened, the prisoner handed over. After that had been done, the
roadster, with all lights out, was turned around and left in front of the gate.
Then the men who had accomplished the abduction entered the house, and the one
light that had shone from a window was extinguished. Now the man who had been
crouching against the fence moved rapidly, yet with extreme caution. He crept
past the gate, and where a great tree threw its branches over the fence he
vaulted over. Standing against the trunk of the tree, he waited for a time in
silence, listening intently for some noise that would tell of a human being
near. He heard nothing but the moaning of the wind, the beating of the river
against the shore, the soft patter of the rain on the leaves. He crept forward
again, a few feet at a time, and finally reached the side of the house. He
listened near a window, but could hear nothing. He found the window fastened,
went on to another, and found that locked also. Now he sensed something near
him, but it seemed to be animal rather than human. His hand dived into a pocket
and came out with one of the Black Star’s vapor guns. With his back against the
side of the house, he listened and waited. He was sure now that he could hear
breathing. Then he made out two eyes glaring at him in the darkness. Those eyes
seemed to flicker for an instant, and in that instant the man lurched quickly to
one side. A body fell against him; he heard a snarl. He sank to his knees,
grasped a hairy throat, discharged the vapor gun, and felt the body relax. His
hands worked swiftly in the darkness on a mission of exploration. He was
chuckling again as he got upon his feet. So the Black Star did not depend wholly
on human beings to guard him—he had trained dogs! Should there be another dog,
he might sound an alarm before the vapor gun got in its work. The prowler knew
that, and so he hesitated no longer, but hurried around the end of the house.
Here he found a cellar window unlocked. A moment later he was inside the house.
He had an electric torch in a pocket, but feared to flash it here. Again he
listened for a time, and then felt his way around the wall, and so came to a
flight of steps. Up these he crept, to find a locked door at the top. Once more
he listened, and seemed to hear voices coming from a distance. He reached in
another pocket, drew forth a key of peculiar shape, and worked at the lock of
the door for some time. On the other side a key fell out with a clatter. He
waited fully a minute, scarcely daring to breathe, but decided at the end of
that time that the noise made by the falling key had not been heard. Now he
turned the knob, and presently opened the door half an inch. Bit by bit he threw
it back, and finally stepped into the room. He closed the door behind him as
carefully as he had opened it, and even searched and found the key and locked
the door again. Hurrying noiselessly across the room, he entered another, and
finally passed into a narrow hallway. He carried the vapor gun in one hand now
and his electric torch in the other. At any instant, he knew, discovery might
come. Some place in that hall a door might be opened, and light flood it. He was
liable to stumble against one of the Black Star’s men in the darkness. When he
reached the other end of the hall he stopped to listen again. Once more he heard
voices coming as if from a distance, and decided that they came from some room
on the second floor. He was bold enough to flash his torch once now, and
discovered a rear staircase. To this he made his way, and up it, and into a
hallway on the second floor. Now he felt that he was on more dangerous ground.
He could hear the voices plainly, and could locate the room from which they
came. Toward the front of the hall a thin streak of light streamed from beneath
a door. He managed to slip into the room adjoining that from which the light
came. After listening for some time there, he flashed his torch again. The room
was large, bare, dusty. On one side were two windows, the panes filmed with
dirt. On the opposite side from which he had entered was another door, with some
old curtains hanging before it. He crept across to this door, careful that the
boards of the floor did not creak with his steps. He bent and peered through a
keyhole into the room beyond. He did not chuckle now, for a chuckle might have
meant disaster, but he did smile, and the expression on his face was one of
lively satisfaction. He had arrived at an opportune moment. Caution remained
with him, however. He hurried back across the room and locked the door with the
key from his pocket. Then he journeyed to one of the windows and made sure that
it was unlocked and that from it a man easily could drop to the ground. That
done, he went back to the keyhole again and bent down to watch. As he took up
his position a deep voice came from the other room, a voice that seemed to be
issuing orders in a tone that meant the speaker generally had his orders obeyed
instantly. “All ready now! Bring those two back to earth, and we’ll have the
show!” the voice said. “Number Ten, get out of the house and down to the river
and see that everything is prepared. It is now nine-thirty o’clock, and we want
to leave about eleven.”

CHAPTER XXVII—IN BLACK STAR’S HANDS

The man who peered through the keyhole saw a large room, furnished lavishly. The
furniture was massive and antique; the rugs on the floor were valuable;
tapestries of rare worth were there; cut glass was on a heavy buffet at one side
of the room; an antique lamp standing near the center of the room shed an
uncertain yellow light that made some things look grotesque and others
fantastic. At the end of a long table and beside this lamp stood the Black Star,
his robe and hood and mask in place and the star of flaming jet flashing on the
hood. Behind him was the blackboard upon which he wrote orders to those of his
band not enough trusted to hear his voice. To one side were six members of the
band, each dressed in black robe and mask. On two chairs a short distance in
front of him, their hands and feet bound and their mouths gagged, were the two
prisoners of the roadster. As the man of mystery watched, one of the Black
Star’s followers approached the chairs, and for an instant he held a small
sponge beneath the nostrils of each of the two men. He stepped back near the
others. A moment passed, and then Muggs groaned and opened his eyes. Those eyes
seemed to flash fire when he took in the scene. “Well, my dear Muggs, here we
are again,” the Black Star said, laughing a little. “You regain consciousness a
second sooner than Mr. Verbeck, as I have noticed before. That, I presume, is
because you are a tougher specimen of humanity.”

“You—you——” Muggs stammered. “What’s this? Your gag has slipped? That is well,
for I was about to have it removed, anyway. So you can talk, eh?”

Muggs waved his head from side to side and caused the gag to slip again. “I’d
talk to you with my fists if I had th’ chance!” Muggs said. “There you go
again—always violence! I have wondered many times how Mr. Verbeck can put up
with you. Ah, Mr. Verbeck is in the land of the conscious again, I perceive!”

Muggs turned his head and looked at the man beside him. Then he faced the Black
Star again. “Them ropes on his arms are too tight and that gag’s chokin’ him,”
Muggs complained. “You treat me rough if you want, but you treat my boss decent
or I’ll have somethin’ to say to you some time.”

“You scarcely are in a position to threaten just now, Mr. Muggs,” the Black Star
replied, laughing. “However, Muggs, it is not my intention to cause Mr. Verbeck
any great degree of physical discomfort. Mental discomfort, of course, is
another thing.”

He made a motion, and one of his men hurried forward and removed the gag. He
looked at the ropes, too, but shook his head as he regained his former position
at the Black Star’s left. “There, Muggs, are you satisfied?” the Black Star
asked. “Your beloved master has had his gag removed, and may talk or shriek to
his heart’s content. My man indicates, however, that the ropes are all right.
You cannot tempt me, Muggs. Once, or twice before you and Mr. Verbeck were able
to unfasten your bonds. I want nothing like that to happen to-night.”

He walked around the end of the table and toward the two prisoners, and he
laughed aloud as he looked down upon them. “Well, Roger Verbeck, here is the
Black Star’s new headquarters,” he said. “You often have wished to see the
place, I believe, so take a look. You still think you can match wits with the
Black Star, eh? I have done as I threatened. I have had you and Muggs abducted,
and I am going to take you along to-night when we do our little trick, and then
leave you unconscious on the spot for the city to laugh at. Aren’t you about
ready to admit that the Black Star is too crafty for you?”

“Scarcely,” came the reply in a firm voice. “Why, my men tell me it was like
kidnapping babies to get you and Muggs to-night. It really was a shame to do it.
So you are going to continue your efforts to capture me, eh?”

“I am—certainly!”

“Um! Your voice almost has the note of fear in it. You do not seem as sure as
you did the last time I had the pleasure of entertaining you for a few minutes.”

“A few minutes is right!” Muggs put in. “You’ve got your dirty hands on us three
times now, but you’ve never kept us longer than a few minutes. And you’ll not
keep us to-night——”

“I fear you err, my dear Muggs. I am taking no chances with you or your precious
master to-night. As I live, Mr. Verbeck, your face appears changed. Your cheeks
are somewhat thinner. That comes, I suppose, from living in continual fear of
me. Let me see! Um! It has been about three weeks since I informed you of my
intention to abduct you and make you a laughingstock again. You’ve been worrying
about it all that time, eh? Been fearing to sleep or eat or ride abroad? Small
wonder your face is thinner and your voice expresses fatigue.”

“He’s been off his feed!” Muggs blurted out. “And he’s had a bad cold. You
needn’t think me, or my boss, either, would let anything you said throw a scare
into us!”

“Indeed? Had a bad cold, eh? I truly am sorry I did not give you this little
entertainment when you were in good physical condition. But everything is
prepared, Mr. Verbeck, and also you neglected to inform me you had a cold and
wanted to discontinue this fight until you were better.”

The Black Star laughed again as at a good joke, and Muggs growled imprecations
deep down in his throat, but the other man merely looked the Black Star straight
in the eyes and remained silent. “I trust you understand the program, Mr.
Verbeck,” the master criminal went on, his laugh at an end. “It has been about
six months since you made your foolish boast that you could capture me. You
should know by this time that it is an impossibility. However, you have had some
excellent fun trying it, and I have enjoyed the battle immensely. But now it
must end. It is getting to be a bore.”

“Really?”

“Exactly. You’re a sportsman, I believe. I’ll make a deal with you. If Roger
Verbeck does not capture the Black Star within the next twenty-four hours, after
being right here and seeing the Black Star’s headquarters, and being taken by
the Black Star to the scene of to-night’s crime—then Roger Verbeck gives his
word of honor that he’ll stop his feeble attempt and not bother the Black Star
more.”

“Roger Verbeck does nothing of the sort!”

“Still determined, eh? Very well. Then, Mr. Verbeck, we are going to take you
and your man Muggs with us. We’re going to give you a dose from a vapor gun and
leave you where the crime is committed, as I said we’d do. We’ll give the alarm
ourselves and have the police find you two there unconscious. Then let the
public laugh! I fancy you’ll hear a howl go up for you to be ordered off the
case. I’d not be surprised if you were hounded out of this town, which has been
your home all your life.”

“I think not.”

“Which shall you do—make the deal I proposed or be made a public laughingstock
again?”

“I make no deals with a crook!”

“And what’s more, you’re wastin’ your breath,” Muggs put in. “You leave my boss
alone! He’s about half sick. He’s said a hundred times that you’ll get too fresh
some day. Some day you’ll overlook a bet, make a mistake, and then he’ll get
you. And I’ll be right there, I hope when the gettin’s got!”

“You are a very boisterous man, Muggs,” the master criminal said. “You’d be very
vicious, I imagine, under some circumstances. Please do not be so violent. I
abhor violence.”

“You’re right; you’ll abhor it if I ever get my hands on you proper!” Muggs
exclaimed. The Black Star brought the palms of his hands together sharply.
“Enough of this chatter!” he commanded. “We have scant time before leaving here
for the scene of the evening’s festivities. You have decided, Mr. Verbeck, to be
made a laughingstock! Very well!”

“And where is this to take place?” came the question. “Ah! Roger Verbeck thinks
I fear to tell him in advance, does he? Why, sir, I’ll even tell you every
detail of the proposed crime, if you wish. You are most certainly my prisoner,
and cannot warn the police, and, could you, it would avail those stupid police
nothing. One could steal the buttons off their uniforms and they’d not know it
until the next day.”

“I’m listening!”

“Such impatience!” the Black Star exclaimed. “Attend me closely, then, Mr.
Verbeck—you also, Muggs. Little good it’ll do you! It is my intention to-night
to reap a harvest of some three hundred thousand dollars in money and
securities. Quite ambitious—that? Merely an ordinary task for the Black Star, I
assure you.”

“You’re th’ original shrinkin’ onion!” Muggs declared. “Silence, please, while I
explain. The money and securities I mentioned are in the vaults of the National
Trust Company. Those vaults are impregnable, it is said. This is a joke, of
course. With us it will be as easy to get that fortune as it would be to
purchase a new cravat.”

“You’re some modest violet!” said Muggs. “Keep quiet, Muggs, and hear the
plans,” the Black Star said, his eyes glittering through his mask. “Within the
past two months there has been formed in the city a new lodge called the Knights
of Certainty. When one understands things that title is rather a good joke. Many
good men have heard of the order and wondered why some one did not ask them to
join, I presume. The membership was strictly limited. Members of my own band
form the lodge.”

“And you’re the supreme boss crook!” Muggs said. “Another remark, Muggs, and you
get the vapor gun. Mr. Verbeck, you’d better warn your man to remain silent!”
The Black Star evidently was getting angry. Muggs turned his head and found his
fellow prisoner indicating that he was to be quiet. Muggs obeyed. “It would be a
difficult task to get into a meeting of the Knights of Certainty,” the Black
Star went on. “We’re mighty particular who sees things. I may mention that, from
the moment we hired our hall and put in furniture, the room has been under close
guard, one of our own men even doing the janitor work. This hall is on the third
floor of the American Building, adjoining the National Trust Company. We have
been making our preparations nightly, of course, working from our hall. Some
excellent carpenter and mechanical work has been done, and now, when we wish, we
have merely to pass through a wall to a stairway and then make our way over a
trail we have prepared to the vaults of the bank and loot them. “Everything is
prepared, I assure you. At this moment my men are in the uniforms of the
watchmen, and doing their work. There will be no one to molest us. The vault
locks have been fixed so that a few turns of the knobs will unlock them, and yet
an expert would swear that time locks and other protections are in perfect
working order. It has taken us some time to get this state of affairs prepared,
but the reward will be well worth our trouble. The bank received a heavy gold
shipment two weeks ago. Negotiable securities are piled in the vaults. The bank,
in addition, always carries a heavy cash balance, for it has numerous branches
and small affiliated banks. Yes—I fancy we will be well repaid for the work we
have put on it.”

“If you get the stuff!” said Muggs. The Black Star whirled toward him, and one
of his men stepped forward, but the master criminal decided to let the remark
pass. He walked to the head of the table and glanced at his watch. “We start in
half an hour,” he said. “Number Six, go down to the river and inform Number Ten
to be ready to get away instantly.”

Once more he faced his prisoners. “How do you like my new headquarters?” he
asked. “Only a few chosen and trusted men of mine come here. This is a
ramshackle old house, but I have three rooms fixed up comfortably. And there are
things of value in it, believe me! I find it advisable to dispose of loot
slowly. I’d hate to flood the market and lower prices.”

He laughed again, and once more turned toward his men. For a moment he conversed
with them in whispers, ignoring his prisoners. A bell tinkled presently; the
Black Star touched a button on the end of the table, and a few seconds later the
man who had been sent away returned. “Everything ready, chief,” he reported in a
low tone. “Ah! Number Four, telephone Main 5782, ask for Gregg, and say that Mr.
Stewart will have four cases of eggs to-morrow. That will tell those at the
other end that we are starting.”

The man designated moved swiftly across the room to the telephone and sent the
message. The Black Star waved a hand, and another man approached the two
prisoners, a vapor gun in his hand. They twisted and turned in their bonds, but
the gun did its work; the Black Star laughed again as their heads fell forward.
“Clever Mr. Verbeck and clever Mr. Muggs,” he said. “Their attempts to capture
me are childish, to say the least. Get ready now, for we must be off.”

The men removed their robes and masks and put on overcoats and soft hats. The
Black Star took off his robe, but his hood and mask remained in place, and the
overcoat he donned had a wide collar that, when turned up, effectually hid his
face. No one, without looking at him squarely under a bright light, could have
seen the mask. The master criminal waved his hand, and his men picked up the two
unconscious prisoners. He led the way, and they followed, and the last man out
turned off the light. Their steps sounded in the front hallway, the door latch
clicked—they were gone. The man who had been watching all this through the
keyhole chuckled aloud now, and presently he opened the door with his key and
slipped into the headquarters room. There he stood for some minutes to listen,
for he wanted to be sure that he was alone in the house, and then he crossed the
room to the telephone, took down the receiver, and called a number in a soft
voice. The number was that of police headquarters. CHAPTER XXVIII—THE POLICE
LAUNCH

Down on the bank of the river a speedy launch was concealed under overhanging
trees. Two men were waiting in it when the Black Star, his other followers, and
the two prisoners arrived. The prisoners, still bound, were stretched on a robe
in the bottom, the Black Star and his men got aboard, and the launch slipped
almost noiselessly out into the stream and started down it toward the city. The
craft showed its lights properly, but it kept away from all other vessels, and
the men aboard crouched down low and spoke in whispers. In time the two
prisoners groaned and opened their eyes, the effect of the vapor having worn
off, and at a sign from the Black Star one of his men inspected bonds and gags
and made sure that they were secure. The Black Star did not want any slip this
night with a fortune at stake. “Your attitude this evening puzzles me, Mr.
Verbeck,” the master criminal whispered in a sarcastic tone. “You do not seem to
be your usual self. Three or four times now I have had you as prisoner, and we
have exchanged some conversation, and while I cannot say that I know you well,
yet you do not seem the Verbeck of old. Apparently you have given up the fight;
you are passive. Been worrying, eh? Afraid I’ll abduct your fiancée, as I almost
did once, and through her force you to join my band? Stop your silly attempt to
capture me, Verbeck, and your worry will end. No? Very well, then!”

Muggs gurgled behind his gag at this baiting of his comrade, and the Black Star
laughed at his ineffectual attempt to speak and at the angry glint in his eyes.
“Nor do you seem to be up to standard, my dear Muggs,” he went on. “I am
disgusted with you this evening. Here you have been in my power for a couple of
hours, and have not made a violent move. Generally you manage to slip your ropes
by some clever means. Losing your fighting spirit, are you?”

Muggs gurgled again, and the Black Star laughed softly and turned away. “We do
not go into a wharf,” he told his men. “We will take no chances of the police
being informed and in wait for us. We stop at a certain place and transfer to
touring cars. Get those fantastic robes from the locker and dress Verbeck and
Muggs in them. We’ll mask them, too, and so, when we reach the city, if any one
gets inquisitive we are merely initiating two gentlemen into the Knights of
Certainty.”

They were halfway to the city now, and his men began carrying out his orders.
Suddenly the engineer of the launch growled something, shut off the power, cut
out all the lights, and let the craft drift. “Police launch!” he hissed over his
shoulder. Up the river and directly at them rushed a high-powered craft that was
hurling back the water from her bows. Her searchlight was sweeping the river.
The Black Star growled orders, his men stretched beside him on the bottom, and
the engineer hurled quantities of sacks over them. Then he snapped on the lights
again and started the launch forward slowly, for he would be able to escape
suspicion that way better than if discovered by the searchlight and found to be
drifting without lights burning. For a moment the searchlight rested on the
launch, which continued on its course. The police craft swung in and headed
directly for it. A hail came across the water. The launch was slowed down and
the police boat stopped almost alongside. “Who are you, and where are you
going?” an officer demanded. “This is the launch _Speedy_,” the engineer
replied. “I’m runnin’ to th’ fish market with a load o’ sacks. What’s th’
matter?”

“Seen any other launch?” the officer demanded. “Nope!”

“How far have you come?”

“From the mouth o’ th’ river. Good fishin’ there now.”

“I’ll come aboard and look you over,” the officer said. The police boat started
slowly and swung nearer. In that instant the Black Star’s engineer acted. He
threw on the power and dropped, for the wheel was locked. The screw churned the
water and hurled a great wave at the police boat. Behind, the men in the police
boat were shouting, and a fusillade of revolver shots spattered around the Black
Star’s craft. But the police found themselves at a disadvantage. The Black
Star’s launch was swifter, and the police boat was headed the wrong way and had
to be turned. While the turn was being accomplished, the firing continued, and
the searchlight kept the prey in sight but that prey was gradually putting
distance between itself and the boat behind. The Black Star’s boat was a hundred
yards in the lead by the time the police launch had straightened out and taken
up the chase in earnest. The grim race was on, with the police firing at times,
and the searchlight always playing on the vessel ahead. The Black Star had
crawled from beneath the sacks now, and was directing operations. “All the speed
you have, and get around the bend,” he ordered. “We can leave the boat and take
to the touring cars. We’ll be lost in the city before they can telephone
headquarters or get cars and trail us!”

The bend in the stream was not far ahead now, and the master criminal issued
further orders. The two prisoners were treated to shots from the vapor gun
again. The siren of the launch shrieked a message to the men ahead waiting with
the touring cars. Around the bend—and the launch dashed for the shore. As it was
reached, the police boat came into view, its searchlight trying to pick up the
quarry. The Black Star and his men tumbled out, carrying the prisoners. From the
road a short distance away came the honking of an automobile horn. Then the
searchlight struck them, and the police launch turned and headed for the shore.
More flashes of flame split the darkness, and bullets whined through the trees
and underbrush. But the Black Star and his men were in the dense woods now and
hurrying along a narrow path that led to the road. They reached the two waiting
motor cars and tumbled in, and the automobiles started toward the city. The
police were just leaving their boat and rushing into the woods, flashing their
pocket torches, their revolvers held ready, calling to one another. They reached
the road in time to hear the roaring of two motors and to see two cars
disappearing down the highway. They wasted another fusillade of shots, and then
hurried back toward the boat. CHAPTER XXIX—BLACK STAR TAKES A TRICK

The Black Star rode in the first car with his two prisoners and three of his
trusted men, and the others followed in the second car as close as safety would
permit. Both chauffeurs got all the speed possible out of the machines they
drove. The police had been left behind for the time being, but there was danger
of them getting to a telephone in some way and sending an alarm to headquarters.
If the Black Star’s autos were headed off as they were entering the city,
disaster might follow. If they could gain the city’s streets and separate,
undoubtedly their chances for getting to the lodge hall unobserved would be
excellent. The Black Star was not worrying about the police. He deemed it a
coincidence that the launch had run upon him. He believed the officers had been
looking for river thieves, and that they would continue to look for them. He did
not think for a moment that the police in the launch were looking for the Black
Star and members of his band. How could that be possible? How could the police
know that this was the night the Black Star had chosen for a crime and that he
would be coming up the river in a launch? “We’ll be at th’ bridge in a few
minutes,” the master criminal’s chauffeur warned. “The road curves up to the
bridge,” the Black Star replied. “I do not think it possible that word could
have been sent ahead, but it is well to be prepared. Slow down as you reach the
curve and shut off your lights. The car behind will do the same. We’ll stop this
side of the curve and investigate.”

On dashed the cars, and presently the Black Star’s chauffeur decreased his
speed, forcing the chauffeur behind to do the same. The lights of the two cars
went out; they rolled along the road with scarcely any noise, and presently came
to a stop. Here the road ran close to the river, and by getting from the car and
walking a hundred feet the master criminal could look down at the bridge. He
took one of his men with him and went to make his investigation. He saw at a
glance what was happening. The police, it was evident, had reached a telephone.
The bridge at the moment was swinging open. And when it was open it remained so,
though there was no boat in sight to make the passage through. And, as the
master criminal watched, he saw the police launch darting up the river. Its
searchlight flashed upon the bridge, and its siren bellowed. It turned toward
the shore and touched. The police sprang out and ran up the bank. The Black Star
could see them reach the floor of the bridge and run along it to the tender’s
shanty. Then they scattered, hiding among girders and along the bridge approach.
“Um! Very clever!” the Black Star said to his man. “There is only the one road,
too. We drive at a furious pace on to the bridge; we see the draw open, and we
stop—and the clever police spring out and make us all prisoners. Very
clever—except that I anticipated it.”

“Maybe we could turn around and get back to our launch,” his man suggested.
“Fool! In the first place, we’d lose valuable time, and then, when we did come
up the river, we’d have to clash with the police boat again. Also, my brainy
friend, if our launch is where we left it, you may be sure there is a police
guard there waiting for us to return. If you happen to have any brains, try to
use them.”

The Black Star’s man gulped and kept silent. “Go back to the cars and have all
the men come here, bringing Muggs and Verbeck,” the master criminal ordered. The
man obeyed; within two minutes all were grouped around the Black Star, and the
unconscious prisoners were on the ground at the foot of a tree. The Black Star
explained their predicament. “You chauffeurs, get back in the cars, turn on the
lights, and drive on to the bridge,” he instructed. “When the police question
you, simply say you have been out to that road house on the river bank earlier
this evening—which will be true—and not finding fares there, or prospects of
any, are on your way back to the city. Admit you heard firing back on the road,
and saw men rushing through the trees. Say you didn’t stop because you were
afraid of being held up—there have been several automobile holdups in that
vicinity recently. And argue with the police as long as possible, while we do
our part.”

The chauffeurs hurried away. They ran some risk, they knew. They might be put
under arrest, but they had little fear of that. Both held licenses as public
chauffeurs, and they had established the road-house alibi on the master
criminal’s orders. And, if held, the Black Star would see that they were bailed
out—and then they’d simply jump their bail. “We’re going through that bridge and
to the city, and we’re going in the police launch,” the Black Star told the
others. “That’ll be rather rubbing it in, but the police deserve it. I’ll write
a letter to the papers afterward, telling just how we did it. There is only one
man in the launch. We must seize it and make a quick get-away. Run under the
bridge and straight up the river. We’ll desert the police boat a short distance
down the stream. I’ve arranged for two taxicabs to be there. I wasn’t exactly
sure where it would be best to leave our own launch, and I always prepare for
emergencies.”

He led the way through the brush on the bank of the river. They had but a short
distance to go, and they were directly opposite the police boat and about a
hundred feet from it when they heard the two automobiles run up on the bridge
and stop at the command of a policeman. The Black Star was a wise general; he
did not send all his men forward at once. Had he done that, the engineer of the
launch would have been suspicious and instantly sounded an alarm. The master
criminal selected one man, and had him walk boldly through the brush and down to
the launch. In the semidarkness the engineer of the launch would believe him to
be one of the plain-clothes men returning with orders. The Black Star’s man was
within a dozen feet of the boat before the engineer was aware of his approach,
for he was busy with the searchlight. He turned when he heard the man splashing
through the mud at the edge of the river, and before he could ask a question he
received a shot from a vapor gun and collapsed in the bottom of the boat,
unconscious. The searchlight had been playing on the bridge approach. The Black
Star’s man swerved it aside for a moment, and then back into position, thus
notifying his master that his work had been accomplished. Down through the brush
crept the Black Star and his men, carrying their two prisoners. They reached the
launch and boarded it, and the master criminal’s engineer hurried to his
machinery. The police engineer had been tossed out on the shore. But the escape
was not to be made without trouble. There was a captain in charge of the police
squad who thought quickly. When the two empty automobiles reached the bridge,
and the questioning of the chauffeurs began, this captain ordered half his men
to return to the launch and go back up the river to look for traces of their
quarry. They broke through the brush just as the launch’s engineer was put on
the shore. The mere sight of men aboard the launch was enough to tell the police
what had occurred. They charged forward, shooting wildly and yelling alarms to
their companions up on the bridge. Bullets smashed into the sides of the craft
as it backed slowly away from the shore. The engineer was doing his best, but he
could not turn and put on speed until safely away from the shallows. It was a
perilous moment for the Black Star and his men. The criminals returned the fire,
but made no attempt to hit their targets, for the master crook’s orders always
stood against inflicting wounds or causing death, unless it was absolutely
necessary. Crouching in the bottom of the launch, they waited for the engineer
to back out into the stream. More police were hurrying down from the bridge, and
soon would be firing at the launch. And they would be able to keep up their
volleys until the launch was some distance away, endangering the Black Star and
his men and prisoners every moment of the time. But the master criminal, it
appeared, though he pretended to abhor all violence, was no physical coward. He
sprang to his feet, away from the protection of the bulwarks, and jumped forward
to the searchlight. While bullets rained around him he reached the light and
turned it. It flashed straight into the faces of the foes on the shore, blinding
them at that short range, making them easy targets, and rendering them incapable
of aiming at the men on the launch. Some continued firing in the path of light;
others sprang for cover in the brush, expecting the men on the boat to fire a
volley. The laugh of the Black Star rang out; he continued playing the light on
them. The launch was out in the stream now and turning; a moment later the
engineer gave her the maximum amount of speed, and she dashed beneath the bridge
and toward the city. “Too bad our prisoners could not have been conscious and
enjoyed this little battle,” he told his men. “Really, Muggs and Verbeck are not
in the thick of it at all to-night. Generally they cause a part of the trouble,
but to-night all our trouble has come from others.”

He chuckled as if well pleased with himself. “Some joke this—stealing the
enemy’s boat,” he observed. CHAPTER XXX—MUGGS IN ACTION

For fifteen minutes they ran in silence, and then the Black Star went forward
and stood beside the engineer. “Put in at the alley between National and
Washington Streets,” he ordered. “Out with your lights, and make as little noise
as possible. The two taxicabs should be waiting at the end of the alley. Get
ready, men, and pick up Verbeck and Muggs. We don’t want to lose any more
time—we’ve lost enough already.”

He was not chuckling now; he spoke in a stern voice, and his men knew that the
Black Star was thinking only of the big-planned crime now, of getting the money
and securities from the vault of the National Trust Company and removing the
fortune to his headquarters. Then the band would scatter as usual, and in the
morning the police would discover that the lodge hall of the Knights of
Certainty had been a crooks’ workshop and the robbery made possible because of
it—but they would make the discovery too late, as usual. They would find little
black stars pasted in the lodge hall and on the vaults, and none of the members
of the Knights of Certainty would be seen again. The Black Star and his men
would leave behind a couple of hundred dollars’ worth of furniture—and take away
between two and three hundred thousand in coin and negotiable securities. And
the next blow perhaps would be struck in a different section of the city and at
an unexpected moment, as usual. The lights of the launch went out, and her speed
was cut down until she scarcely crept through the water. Closer and closer she
slipped to the shore, inside the shadows of large warehouses. She passed the end
of a street, went in closer, and came finally to the alley. Silently the men
lashed her to piling there. The two taxicabs were waiting, and the transfer to
them took but a few minutes. With curtains up, they crept to the mouth of the
alley, turned into a street, and sped along it toward the business district.
There was nothing unusual in the appearance of the taxicabs. A score of police
officers would have glanced at them once, and then turned away. Repeatedly they
were held up at crossings by the theater and café crowds passing. They were
caught in traffic jams, but their chauffeurs puffed at cigarettes and waited
nonchalantly until they could go ahead. They reached the front of the building
where the Knights of Certainty had their hall, but did not stop there. They went
into the alley and pulled up at a little side door. One of the men got out,
rapped on the door, and gave a password when a slot in it was opened. The Black
Star and his men got out, glanced around, carried their prisoners from the cabs,
and went into the building. The door was closed again; the two taxicabs drove
away. An elevator made two trips to the third floor, and the Black Star and his
men entered the lodge hall. Guards took up the positions that had been assigned
to them. The doors were bolted securely; the windows had been fitted with opaque
glass and heavy curtains. “Well, here we are,” the Black Star said. “Mask,
gentlemen! Now bring our prisoners back to life, and we’ll let them see how easy
it is to take money.”

While his orders were being obeyed the master criminal went to one of the walls
and pressed against a certain spot there. A section of the wall swung out, and
in the aperture a masked man stood. “Everything all right?” the Black Star
asked. “All safe, sir,” came the reply. “The watchmen——”

“Not a hitch there, sir; they are all unconscious and our men in their places.
We have reported regular for four hours, and not a suspicion at headquarters or
they’d have investigated before this. The patrolman on the beat even looked in
at a window once and waved at our man on the first floor.”

“Excellent!” the Black Star said, rubbing his hands in satisfaction. He walked
back to the end of the room. His prisoners were revived now and had been placed
side by side in chairs before one of the curtained windows in the rear of the
hall. “Ah, Mr. Verbeck and Mr. Muggs!” the master criminal smirked. “You are
conscious again, then? ’Twas a pity you didn’t see the little fight we had with
the police. I’d tell you all about it, but we haven’t the time to spare, and you
can read about it in to-morrow’s papers. Well, here you are in the hall of the
Knights of Certainty. You see the aperture in the wall? My mechanics have
arranged a passageway between the walls of the two buildings. We have a sort of
glorified dumb-waiter, and by its use can descend to the first floor of the
National Trust Company’s building. Simple, eh? I regret I cannot explain the
method we are going to use to get into the burglar-proof vaults. Did it become
public property, the manufacturers might invent some means of counteracting it.
Kindly sit still, gentlemen, while I have my men prepare the way.”

He deliberately turned his back and walked to the center of the hall again and
called his men to him, all except the guards near the doors. He issued
instructions, and two men hurried to the aperture in the wall and disappeared.
The Black Star was the commanding general now, and his followers were eager to
obey. For fifteen minutes perhaps he paced the floor, glancing at his prisoners
now and then, and often stopping to issue some whispered instruction. Then one
of the men he had sent below returned. “All ready, sir,” he reported. “The
vaults are opened?” the Black Star asked. “Yes, sir, and every strong box. All
you have to do is take out the swag, sir.”

“The suit cases are there and ready?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Two of you carry Mr. Verbeck to the dumb-waiter, and we’ll descend with him,”
the master criminal commanded. “Sorry I cannot take you at the same time, my
dear Muggs, but the capacity of our dumb-waiter is limited. I’ll have you taken
below before we are through, though. In the meantime, sit calmly on your chair.”

He laughed as he turned toward the aperture in the wall, laughed again as two of
his men carried the bound and gagged prisoner as if he had been a log of wood,
and chuckled as he saw the anger flashing in Muggs’ eyes. The Black Star, his
helpless prisoner, and his two men disappeared, and the aperture in the wall was
closed. Those who remained glanced at Muggs, but did not approach him, and made
no offer to taunt him. They left that to the Black Star. All except the guards
at the two doors and one who peered through a slit in the curtain at a front
window, gathered in the middle of the room and spoke in whispers. Muggs tugged
at his bonds for the hundredth time, and realized that he had been bound well.
There was no hope of slipping from these ropes. Here was no broken glass upon
which he could saw the ropes, as Roger Verbeck had done once. Nor could he
manage to get his fingers into a hip pocket and extract a knife that opened with
a touch of the thumb and cut his bonds with that as he had done once before when
in the Black Star’s hands. Back at the master criminal’s headquarters he had
been searched and his knife taken from him. He racked his brain for an idea that
would lead to release, and could think of none. On the first floor of the
adjoining building, he guessed, the Black Star and his men were filling suit
cases with the wealth of the National Trust Company, and a helpless and raging
prisoner was being forced to watch the crime and endure the taunts of the Black
Star at the same time. If only he could be free and have a good automatic in his
hand——

He glanced at the Black Star’s men again; they were not even looking in his
direction; they knew well, he supposed, that he could not make a move. He could
only sit in the chair against the curtained rear window and look straight ahead,
absolutely helpless. He imagined that he could hear a slight noise outside the
window, but it was not repeated. If he could have seen, he would have noticed
that the point of a sharp knife pierced the heavy curtain directly behind him,
and where none in the room could see. Working slowly, cutting an inch at a time,
that knife made a slit half a foot long. Then Muggs heard the slightest
suggestion of a whisper. “Muggs! We’re here to help, but must move carefully.
I’m going to cut your ropes and slip you a gun. Hold your arms tight so the
ropes won’t fall away until you’re ready. Steady now!”

Muggs might have shrieked his happiness had not the gag prevented. He didn’t
pretend to know the owner of the voice, and he didn’t care much, so that it was
a friend. One thing he did know—it was not the voice of Roger Verbeck. And it
was not the voice of old Detective Riley, who had helped Muggs and Verbeck
several times in their effort to take the Black Star. It was a strange voice,
but welcome for all that. Muggs felt a knife sawing at the ropes that bound his
wrists together behind him. He caught the ends as the ropes were severed, and
held them so that they would not drop away and alarm the Black Star’s men before
his feet were free. The knife was working on the ropes that bound his feet now.
It was slow and tedious work, and at times the knife was still. Finally Muggs
felt the last rope give, and he heard the whisper again. “I’m going to slip you
an automatic. Stick ’em all up and hold ’em while we break in behind you. If we
make a false move we’ll lose. Is the Black Star still below? Wiggle your fingers
if he is.”

Muggs wiggled his fingers by way of answer, and almost immediately he felt the
butt of an automatic pressed against his palm. “Now!” the voice whispered. None
of the criminals were facing Muggs. He stretched his arms and legs once to
restore circulation, and then sprang from his chair. “Hands up!” he shrieked,
and leveled the automatic. Every man in the room whirled to face him at that
command. One reached for a weapon, and Muggs shot over his head. Behind him the
window was shattered, and there was a sudden commotion as half a dozen uniformed
policemen, a lieutenant at their head, tumbled into the lodge hall with guns
held ready. “Keep ’em up!” the lieutenant warned. Another of the Black Star’s
men reached for a gun, and the sergeant dropped him. Another darted quickly
across the room, and the bullet that went in his direction missed its mark. He
reached the wall—and the light switch. The lights went out. CHAPTER XXXI—IN THE
BANK

The forces were about even, and these men of the Black Star’s organization whom
he had taken into his inner circle, and, in a measure, into his confidence could
be expected to put up a brave fight to save themselves and their master from
capture or death. They knew how the public regarded the Black Star and his band;
they knew what a jury would do to any one of them who stood in the prisoner’s
dock, and that the judge would give the limit of imprisonment to any declared
guilty. So, as the lights went out, there came a scattered volley from the
criminals, who had darted to different parts of the lodge hall. Muggs and most
of the policemen, however, anticipating that volley, had thrown themselves flat
on the floor, and they fired at the flashes and changed their positions quickly.
Again volleys were exchanged, and shrieks of pain told that some of the bullets
had found human marks. The lieutenant was bellowing his commands, urging his men
to guard doors and windows. In the darkness it was impossible to tell policeman
from criminal, and both sides ceased firing. There came a rush, and some of the
Black Star’s men reached the door that opened into the hall and threw it open.
They were met by a stream of light from the corridor, and saw more policemen
standing there awaiting them, their weapons held ready; there was no escape that
way. The light made it possible for the police to shoot again, and two of the
criminals went to the floor badly wounded. Others ran to the front windows, but
there was no way of escape there, for it was three stories to the ground; nor
could they reach the rear windows and fire escape, for the police were on guard
there. They were cornered in the lodge hall, and knew it. To each of them came
the thought that prison was better than death—for no murder was charged against
the Black Star’s band. And they had faith in their master and his
organization—arrest did not mean prison necessarily. “Throw down them guns, or
take it!” the lieutenant commanded. One of the Black Star’s lieutenants groaned,
threw down his gun, and put up his hands. Then the others followed his example.
They couldn’t understand how the police happened to be there—the Black Star had
almost always managed to lead them astray before. They began wondering how it
fared with the Black Star and the others on the floor below. “Once too often
this gang has tried to put over something!” the lieutenant said as his men
snapped handcuffs on the crestfallen criminals. “We’ve got you this time, and
you’ll do a long stretch each.”

“We was only holdin’ a meetin’,” one of the men replied. “Yeh? I know all about
that meetin’. Masks on your faces, and the Black Star and some more down in the
bank, and Muggs bound and gagged in a chair—and you was only holdin’ a meetin’.
Down to the wagon you go now, and straight to the hoosgow!”

Muggs was not listening to this tirade of the lieutenant’s. No sooner had he
seen that the battle was over than he had raced across the hall to the wall
where the Black Star had touched a hidden button and caused an aperture to show
there. He pressed the wall frantically, but with no result. He covered every
square inch of it near where he had seen the Black Star put his hand, but no
opening appeared. “Needn’t waste time there, Muggs, if you want to get to that
Verbeck man of yours,” he heard the sergeant saying. “There’s some trick about
it, of course, or it wouldn’t belong to the Black Star. We were outside the
window on the fire escape, and saw him open that, and heard what he said. So
we’ll just guard this end here, in case they should open it and try to come up.
The lower floor is guarded, too, and they’ll be mixing things there in a minute;
they’re waitin’ until Black Star gets his hands on some money and stuff. We want
to get him with the goods, see? Men all around the block, too—a mouse couldn’t
get away. We’ve got him this time!”

“How’d you know?” Muggs demanded. “Don’t ask me! Some tip to the chief—and it
sure was a correct tip. Two thirds of the night relief is scattered around this
block right now. Here’s where we clean up. By George, I’m sorry you and Verbeck
didn’t do it!”

“Didn’t we?” Muggs snarled. “You wouldn’t have done much, I guess, bound and
gagged the way you were—just been left here for another joke. Nope! The police
get the credit for this—the police and whoever tipped this off. One of the Black
Star’s men did it, I suppose—some one that was sore at him for something.”

“Guess again!” Muggs snarled. He didn’t fancy this belittling of Roger Verbeck
by a lieutenant of police. He turned and hurried across the hall and into the
corridor, and sped down the stairs. He wanted to get around to the other side of
the block and see what was transpiring in the National Trust Company’s building.
He had forgotten the fantastic robe in which the Black Star had dressed him, and
the laughter of one of the policemen in the hall brought it to mind. Muggs tore
the robe off and growled his imprecations, and ran on as the policeman laughed
again. At the entrance to the building an officer held him up with leveled
weapon, not being sure of his identity. Muggs lost time until another lieutenant
appeared who knew him and ordered his release. He reached the street, sprinted
for the corner, darted around it, and reached the front of the bank. Everything
seemed quiet there. Half a dozen policemen were standing on the sidewalk, and
there seemed no commotion inside. “Why don’t you get in? Why don’t you do
something?” Muggs wanted to know. “Standin’ here like dummies that ain’t got——”

“Easy there, man!” one of them replied. “We’re doin’ something, all right. You
just wait here with us until we get the signal.”

“Wait nuthin’!” Muggs exclaimed. “I’m goin’——”

“Wait, Muggs! We know the Black Star is in there and what he’s doing, and we
know he’s got Verbeck in there. Take it easy—we’ve got it planned and we’ll get
him with the goods.”

“You’ll let him get away with half of what’s in the vaults, that’s what you’ll
do!” Muggs stormed. “I’ve seen that gent work before. You just let me get in
there! I’ve got a score or two to settle with him!”

“You’ll have to wait——”

He was interrupted by the blast of a whistle. Instantly the officers were
active. They sprang to the big double doors of the bank and crashed them open
and tumbled inside. Others who came running took up their stations outside to
watch every exit. Muggs was the second man through the front door. It was dark
inside, save where some light came through the windows from the street. The
police flashed their torches and charged through the main room and into the
office section. They tumbled over low partitions and scrambled over tables and
desks and chairs, working their way back of the cages toward the vaults. There
had been officers stationed inside the building before the Black Star and his
men arrived to begin operations, and they were in the front of the charge. It
had been the chief of police who had given the signal on the whistle. Through a
glass partition he had watched proceedings until what he judged was the right
moment to act. He was eager to catch the master criminal with loot in his hands,
to get such evidence that there would be no possibility of a mistrial or
acquittal. There was the sound of crashing glass as the partitions went down.
There was a loud command for the Black Star and his men to throw up their hands
and surrender. There came a deafening crash, and a cloud of vapor rolled toward
the police. Some inhaled it and fell; others, guessing what it meant, tried to
hold breath until it passed, though it half blinded them and made their eyes
smart and torrents of tears run from them. Over the noise and confusion rang the
mocking laugh of the Black Star. Through the gas cloud they could see him
retreating, shielding himself with the body of his bound and gagged prisoner.
Three men who retreated before him carried two heavy suit cases between them.
Shots rang out, but none fell. Those of the police who had not been rendered
unconscious by the gas bomb charged again. They saw the Black Star back into a
little side corridor, saw him hesitate a moment by the wall, put his hand
against it, and saw an opening appear. Through this opening his men darted. He
stepped into it himself, still using his prisoner as a shield. Then the opening
closed. “We’ve got him—got him!” the chief cried. “Our men are watching the top
of that between-the-walls business he built, and we are watching the bottom. He
can’t get out. He’ll give up or he’ll stay there and starve. And if he doesn’t
give up mighty quick we’ll go in after him.”

Muggs grasped the chief by the arm and opened his mouth to speak, but the chief
was quicker. “I know, Muggs,” he said. “The scoundrel’s got Verbeck in there.
But we’ll get ’em—and I don’t think he’ll hurt Verbeck.”

CHAPTER XXXII—A NARROW ESCAPE

When the Black Star had entered the aperture in the lodge hall, and the panel
closed behind him, he flashed his electric torch around the interior of a space
about five feet long and three wide. “Notice our ingenuity, Mr. Verbeck,” he
said. “Here we have constructed, as I remarked, a sort of dumb-waiter between
the walls of the two buildings. It took considerable time, and great care was
necessary, but the job will be profitable for all that. Every bit of material
had to be smuggled into the lodge hall, but we did it without the stupid police
suspecting anything was wrong. “I am sorry that I cannot remove your mask and
gag and discuss this bit of work with you, but you might shriek and call down
our foes. Kindly give me your close attention now. You see this small cable
running through the corner? I pull on it like this—similar to the old-fashioned
elevators, you see. And down we go!”

The little box arrangement crept downward slowly as the Black Star chuckled his
satisfaction. There was not the slightest noise; the holes even had been greased
so the cable would slip through silently. Inch by inch the box descended. It was
insufferably hot, and the air was bad. None spoke a word until the descent of
the box stopped, and then the Black Star turned to his prisoner again. “We are
at the bottom,” he said. “You see this small button here? It is connected with
an electric light signal that we installed, and when I press it a certain number
of times it conveys a meaning to one of my men in the bank. The little bulb
light, I assure you, is cunningly hidden. You see, I am prepared for everything,
Mr. Verbeck. Perhaps that is why I am so successful.”

He reached out and pressed the button. There was a wait of half a minute, and
then a green bulb glowed in the top of the box. “Ah, the coast is clear!” the
Black Star said. “We are about to take a fortune in money and securities from
the strongest bank in the city, Mr. Verbeck, from a bank that boasts its vaults
cannot be opened by burglars.”

The Black Star chuckled again, and then pressed against the wall. An opening
showed before them, and one of the Black Star’s men stood just outside, masked.
“All ready, sir,” he reported. “The suit cases are on a table before the vault’s
door and you have only to open that door and step inside.”

“The watchmen are on duty?”

“In front on the two upper floors, sir, and in the rear on this floor at this
time. He has to punch his report box there in ten minutes.”

“Guard the corridor, then. I want only the three men with me in the vault room.
Should there be trouble, use the back exit, and leave this for me and those
working with me.”

He stepped out as he ceased speaking, and the men behind him carried the
prisoner between them as they had on the floor above. They were in a narrow side
corridor that ran from the offices to an alley entrance—an entrance used by
directors when they attended a meeting, and by bank officials when they desired
to get out of the building without seeing some undesirable. Along this narrow
corridor they walked slowly, bending low when they came to a place where light
came through the windows from the street. They opened a door and passed through
an office, opened another door, and were in the vault room. “Put Mr. Verbeck in
that chair at the