CHAPTER I

It was at half-past ten in the forenoon of a Saturday in July that Mr. Cooper
Silwood, precise in attire, composed in appearance, and punctual as usual to the
minute, walked into his room on the first floor of 176 New Square, Lincoln's
Inn, where were the offices of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, the well-
known and long-established firm of solicitors of which he was a partner. He was
met, as was customary, on his entrance by the head-clerk, John Williamson, who
had already opened and sorted out methodically the letters received over-night.
An admirable specimen of his class, Williamson generally wore an air of great
imperturbability, but this morning his face had a troubled expression. "Anything
special, Mr. Williamson?" asked Silwood quietly, putting away his hat and
gloves. "There are two or three important matters to attend to, sir," replied
the man quickly. "The most important is a letter from Mr. Morris Thornton," he
continued, but in a markedly different tone; at the same time, he looked at his
principal with an anxiety he tried hard but just failed to dissemble. "From Mr.
Thornton," observed Silwood, calmly; he noticed, but was in no wise disconcerted
by, the head-clerk's manner. "Yes, sir; he writes from Vancouver." "And what
does he say?" inquired Silwood. "He states that he is coming home immediately,"
answered Williamson, and now there was unmistakable anxiety in his voice as well
as in his face. "Indeed!" exclaimed Silwood, who had given a slight yet
perceptible start on hearing the news. "It's surely very sudden," he went on
after a pause of a few seconds. "In his last letter--let me see; we got it about
a fortnight ago--he said nothing about returning soon to England." "He did not
mention it at all, sir, I am certain. But you will see from this last letter of
his that he has a very strong reason for leaving British Columbia; he is
seriously ill--so ill that he has been warned by his doctor to set his affairs
in order. One knows what that means--he is in a critical condition." And again
Williamson scanned his master's face apprehensively. "Ah, very sad," said
Silwood, but he spoke in a strange, hollow tone, glancing the while at
Williamson with a curious glittering light in his eyes that was sinister and
menacing. It suddenly faded away, however, and he asked quite evenly, "Does he
say when he is coming?" "Oddly enough, sir, he gives no precise date. But here
is his letter," said Williamson, picking it out from the pile on Silwood's
table. Silwood, knowing Williamson was watching him narrowly, and conscious that
it was necessary to preserve an aspect of calmness, read Thornton's letter with
the utmost deliberation and with no more concern than was natural in the pitiful
circumstances of the case. "Very sad, very sad," he said, when he had perused
the letter, which he put down in front of him with elaborate carelessness; "very
distressing!" he added, shaking his head. There was a moment of silence, and
then Silwood remarked to Williamson that he might go, but as the head-clerk was
withdrawing he called him back. "Has Mr. Eversleigh come in yet?" he asked.
"Yes, sir; a few minutes ago." "Have you told him about this letter from Mr.
Thornton?" "No, sir." "That's right, Mr. Williamson. I'll tell him about it
myself." Silwood nodded Williamson's dismissal, and the clerk, who had
undoubtedly been studying his principal intently and wonderingly during their
conversation, bowed and went out. "It's plain that Williamson has his
suspicions," said Silwood to himself, after the door had closed upon the head-
clerk. "He is inclined to think there's something wrong--I could see it in his
manner--it suggested he was afraid there was some trouble impending. But he
knows nothing--he can know nothing." He assured himself, however, that what
Williamson knew or suspected did not matter much. But what did matter, what did
matter enormously, was this letter of Thornton's. Taking it up again, he read it
over very carefully twice or thrice; then, still holding it in his hand, he
walked up and down the floor many times, absorbed in thought. His small, hard,
keen eyes gleamed angrily, the lines of his cold, pale, clean-shaven face seemed
to become deeper, and his hands opened and shut convulsively as he paced his
room. Now and again he looked at a large japanned box which stood in one corner.
With a quick, nervous movement peculiar to him in moments of doubt, he stopped
and pushed up the heavy brown wig which he always wore by day, and sat down at
his table. Once more he re-read Thornton's letter. "Thornton's coming back in
this unexpected way," he said to himself, "upsets my plan--that is quite clear;
my hand is forced. What is to be done now? The worst of it is that Thornton does
not say when he is coming--which is more than a little strange. He is well on
his way, no doubt, by this time; he may drop in upon us any day. I must prepare
for it. I never looked for his return--at least, not for a long time. His coming
precipitates the crisis. Well, it was bound to come sooner or later. I must
consider my position coolly." He knew he would not be disturbed for an hour, as
it was a fixed rule of the office that no one was to be shown in to him till
half-past eleven. He thought best, pen in hand, seated at his table, and there
he sat, a still, immovable figure, save when he jotted something on his
blotting-pad, for several minutes. But his was a nimble brain, and his mind was
soon made up. "I must see Eversleigh," he told himself, "and acquaint him with--
everything." As he thought this, he half smiled, and his eyes for an instant had
in them the same threatening gleam that had flashed upon Williamson. Next he
went to the large japanned box that stood in the corner, and touching a spring
cleverly concealed in the moulding round its base, gained access to a narrow,
shelf-like cavity at the bottom, which was stuffed with papers. From this secret
place he extracted a folio sheet covered with figures, against which were
various initials, "M.T." being conspicuous from their frequency amongst them. He
went over this document very carefully, added up the figures opposite the "M.T.
"s, and put down the total on his pad. "A quarter of a million," he whispered
almost aloud. "It's an immense sum. What a thing to have to tell Eversleigh!"
Then he folded up and replaced the sheet of figures in the receptacle hidden at
the bottom of the big box, but when he tried to close up the aperture he
experienced great difficulty in getting the spring to act; finally, however, he
succeeded. "I ought to see to that at once," he said with decision, "but I dare
not." He now proceeded to skim over the rest of his correspondence with
extraordinary rapidity but with little real attention; at the back of his mind
he was still occupied with the return of Morris Thornton. All at once a thought
struck him. "I wonder if Kitty Thornton has heard from her father by the same
post? If so, she may know the date on which to expect him," was what he said to
himself, adding, "if she knows, Eversleigh will know." For Miss Kitty Thornton
lived practically as a member of the family of Francis Eversleigh, the senior
partner of the firm. Silwood went to the door of his room, opened it quietly,
and looked out. A young and handsome man was springing lightly up the stairs;
the two men exchanged somewhat cold nods. "Good morning, Gilbert," said Silwood,
but without much cordiality. "Good morning," returned the other, with a distant
air. "Going up to see your father, I suppose?" asked Silwood. "Yes. Mr.
Williamson, whom I met in the square, told me he was in," replied Gilbert
Eversleigh, and with another nod went on upstairs. "I'll just give you five
minutes," said Silwood, under his breath, addressing the back of the unconscious
Gilbert, who knocked at a door on the second floor and was admitted. "I thought
I'd look in, sir, to ask how they all are at home," said Gilbert to his father,
Francis Eversleigh. Gilbert had his own chambers in the Temple, of which he was
a member, and for the past three years had not lived at his father's house in
Surbiton. Francis Eversleigh gazed at his son before answering the implied
question, and a father's pride expressed itself clearly in his face. The son was
dear to the father's heart. "They're all very well at home--your mother and your
sister and Kitty," responded Francis Eversleigh, lingering somewhat on the last
word. Glancing away from his son to the window, he remarked casually, "Really, I
think Miss Kitty grows prettier and more charming every day." "She is lovely,"
cried Gilbert, with rising colour. "By the way," observed the father, pointedly,
"Harry Bennet came in last evening, and it was not hard to see the attraction."
"Miss Kitty?" "Yes." "But Harry Bennet!" said Gilbert, in a voice of protest.
"Yes. He stayed quite late." "But you know, sir," objected Gilbert, with a
frown, "that Harry is said to be going the pace--making the sparks fly
furiously." Francis Eversleigh did not reply. He thought he had given his son a
plain enough hint; besides, Bennet was a client of his own, and he did not wish
to pursue the subject further. Gilbert walked over to the window and stood
there, while his father covertly watched him. Presently he faced round; the
frown had disappeared; his expression was confident and eager. Father and son
looked at each other. Seen thus together, the family likeness between them was
pronounced; seen apart, the differences became prominent. Francis Eversleigh was
a tall, stout, florid, handsome man; genial, easy-going, unsuspicious, self-
indulgent--not a typical solicitor in appearance or character. Inheriting early
in life a fine business, he had gradually allowed himself to give way to a
constitutional indolence, a fatality of temperament which Gilbert happily had
escaped. Gilbert was tall and fair and good-looking, but he was more slimly made
than his father, and was charged with far more vitality and force. He was alert,
active, resolute. In brief, he was strong and keen where his father was weak and
slack. "It's a glorious day, sir," said Gilbert, "and as it's a Saturday and I
have nothing on of importance, I think I'll run over to Surbiton and spend the
afternoon and evening. I'll wire mother I'm coming." "What! No work to do!" the
father made laughing demur. But he immediately followed with the words, "Well,
well, my boy, go and enjoy yourself. It's fine to be young!" What he really
meant, of course, was, "Go and see Kitty, you lucky young dog, and good fortune
go with you." He knew that Gilbert loved the girl, and there was nothing in all
the world he desired more than that Gilbert should succeed in his court to her.
As Gilbert turned to leave the room, Cooper Silwood entered it, carrying an open
letter in his hand. After Gilbert had withdrawn, Silwood took care to see the
door was shut. CHAPTER II

"Here is a letter from Morris Thornton," said Silwood, shooting a keen, swift
glance at his partner, but it escaped the other's notice. Francis Eversleigh's
thoughts, in fact, played pleasantly around his son Gilbert and Kitty Thornton,
or if he had seen that look it might have startled him out of the complacent
musings which forecast a fortunate ending only. "Yes," he said, rather
apathetically. For though the mention of the name of Kitty's father chimed in
agreeably with his reflections, the firm received communications frequently from
Morris Thornton--which was only natural, as he was by far the most important
client it possessed, and therefore the arrival of this particular letter excited
no special interest in his breast. "Is it more money for investment?" he
inquired, tranquilly. But Silwood did not answer the question. Instead of doing
so, he scanned the letter with those little, sharp eyes of his, while his
smooth, pallid face was as void of expression as a block of stone. "What does
Morris say?" asked Eversleigh, after a pause. "Did you see Miss Kitty this
morning?" Silwood queried, ignoring the other's words; moreover, he spoke in
such a tone as was significant of the relations between the two partners--it
suggested the idea that he was accustomed to direct Eversleigh, and not to be
directed by him. "Certainly, I saw her this morning," replied Eversleigh,
beginning to wonder a little. "Did she have nothing to tell you about her
father?" "She did not allude to him at all." "Do you happen to know if she
received a letter from him this morning?" "I'm pretty sure she did not; if she
had, she would doubtless have mentioned it," said Eversleigh, looking blankly at
the questioner. "But what are you driving at, Cooper?" he asked. "Morris
Thornton informs us in this letter that he is coming back to England----"

"Indeed!" cried Eversleigh, breaking in; "that's good news. I shall be very glad
to see him again." And there was a pleasant smile on Eversleigh's face. "Yes,
he's coming home," Silwood went on; "but he doesn't state exactly when. I
thought he probably would write Miss Kitty about the same time that he wrote us,
giving the precise date--say, of his sailing from New York; he generally comes
by that route." "I should think he has written her," said Francis Eversleigh,
"but she had not received a letter this morning up to the time of my leaving
Surbiton, so far as I know. Did the letter to us come by the first delivery or
the second? If it came by the latter, then most likely she would get her letter,
if there was one for her, by it also. But that would be after I had left
Surbiton." "That's it, I believe," observed Silwood, who had been examining the
postmarks on the envelope in which Thornton's letter had been enclosed; "our
letter came by the second delivery. I am convinced that when you return to
Surbiton you will find Miss Kitty has heard from her father. He will certainly
have told her when to expect him, and we must get to know the exact date he
specifies; it is most important." "It is certainly very odd," remarked
Eversleigh, leisurely and without much curiosity, "that so business-like a man
as Morris does not give a positive date either for leaving New York or for
arriving here; but I don't know, after all, that it is so particularly
important. The important thing, of course, is that he is coming back again, and
I'm heartily pleased to hear it. He's been away a long time without a holiday at
home--seven years, isn't it? Kitty was only fourteen," continued Eversleigh, in
a vein of reminiscence, "when he left her in my wife's charge, and now she is
twenty-one. How happy the news will make the child! Strange he doesn't mention a
date--strange, as you say, Cooper. But can't you make a pretty fair guess at the
approximate date from his letter? You haven't yet told me what he says in it.
What does he say?" Cooper Silwood glanced at the letter as if to refresh his
memory, yet he knew its contents so perfectly that he could have repeated it
word for word. "He tells us," said Silwood, deliberately, "that the reason for
his returning to England is the state of his health, which is now most
precarious." "Dear me!" interrupted Eversleigh, with lively concern. "He says he
is subject to exceedingly serious heart-trouble, and has been warned by his
doctor that he may not have long to live." "Good Heavens!" ejaculated
Eversleigh, his face suddenly grown grave. The friendship between him and Morris
Thornton had lasted many years; indeed, they had been boys together at Rugby,
and the sad tidings pained him greatly. "Poor Morris!" he said, in a low, hushed
voice; "how dreadful! I thought I should be so glad to see him once more, but--
but this is too terrible--too terrible!" Silwood had been almost as much of a
friend to the doomed man as his partner, but he uttered no words of regret, far
less of sorrow. While Eversleigh was speaking, he turned away, with a slight
gesture of impatience, and fixed his eyes on some shelves filled with law-books.
There was a short silence, and then Eversleigh, still in that small, hushed
voice, asked if there was anything more in Thornton's letter. "He intends to
consult Sir Anthony Mortimer, the great heart specialist, but he has no real
hope of recovery," replied Silwood, with another glance at the letter. "Then he
goes on to say that he will devote the whole of the time left him to putting all
his affairs in thorough order, so that Miss Kitty will have no trouble in the
future. He thanks us for the care and judgment we have shown in investing the
sums of money he has from time to time remitted us from Canada, and, as a matter
of form, he would like to check over the securities, certificates of shares,
etc., we hold for him. He concludes by stating that when his agents have
realized the remainder of his estate in British Columbia the proceeds will be
placed in our hands, and that he will leave instructions to this effect." Though
Eversleigh had asked for the information Silwood thus gave him, his mind was so
stunned by the grave news concerning the condition of his friend that he hardly
took in what his partner said. Silwood saw that Eversleigh was not following
him. He now spoke sharply and abruptly, so that Eversleigh was compelled to
listen. "Morris, I take it," said he, "wishes to make an examination into his
affairs--an investigation, one might call it; _that_ is the meaning of his
desire to check over the securities, certificates of shares, etc., in our
hands." "Well, it's very natural in the circumstances," observed Eversleigh.
"Poor Morris! Poor fellow! To have fought all these long years for his fortune--
to have won--and now to be robbed of the fruits of the struggle; it must be
bitter--bitter! Such a fine fortune, too! Thanks to your financial ability,
Cooper," continued Eversleigh, with returning complacency, "his estate is in a
highly satisfactory condition; everything is in apple-pie order; he will be
delighted with your admirable management. It's a great fortune," he added,
meditatively. "What we hold of it, Cooper, is something like a quarter of a
million, is it not?" "Yes, yes," assented Silwood, speaking rapidly. "Francis,"
he went on, his manner for the first time showing a trace of nervousness, his
speech a touch of incoherence, "that's what I must talk to you about--there's a
very good reason why I am so anxious as to the date of Morris Thornton's arrival
--something must be done at once." "What do you mean, Cooper?" asked Eversleigh,
his attention aroused; "I don't understand you." Silwood had up to this point
been standing; he now seated himself and gazed fixedly at his partner, on whose
face was to be seen some uneasiness but no great alarm--rather a vague wonder.
"Frank," said Silwood, steadily, and now master of himself, "prepare yourself--I
have something to say--I have a confession to make." As he heard these words,
Eversleigh, with a sudden movement, pushed his chair back from the table.
Fearful of what was coming, he stared at Silwood, his mild eyes big with
surprise and terror. "What is it?" he stammered, in increasing agitation--"what
is it?" And he jumped up to his feet excitedly, exclaiming, "A confession to
make! You! Am I going out of my senses? My God! What do you mean, Cooper?" "What
I mean is this," said Silwood, keeping his eyes fastened snake-like on
Eversleigh as if to magnetize him: "when Morris Thornton comes to look into his
affairs and ask for the securities and so forth we are supposed to hold----"

"Supposed to hold!" cried Eversleigh, in tremulous accents. "When he asks us for
his property he will discover----"

"No, no, no--never that, Cooper!" interrupted Eversleigh, at last perceiving the
other's drift. "He will discover that his estate has vanished; it does not
exist," said Silwood. "What!" ejaculated Eversleigh, staring wildly at his
partner, and still only half believing his ears, still only half comprehending
the sweep of the calamity in which he was involved. "The truth is, Frank, that,
unknown to you, I've been speculating on the Stock Exchange, and I've lost
everything, or practically everything. If we were called upon to-day," Silwood
went on in a hard, penetrating tone which forced conviction on the mind of the
miserable man to whom he spoke, "to produce our clients' securities, bonds,
shares and monies, we should have very little to give them--the bulk has
disappeared." "We are defaulters," moaned Eversleigh, in accents of horror. And
as he spoke, realizing and overwhelmed by the disaster that had overtaken him,
the big, soft man seemed to shrivel and shrink up. With a pitiful sound,
plaintive, appealing, like the cry of a hurt child, he covered his face with his
hands and sank into his seat. "Some years ago," Silwood resumed, "I was tempted
to speculate. It appeared to be a certainty, but I lost. To gain back what I had
ventured, I speculated again, with no better result. And this happened over and
over again. I did not always lose, or I might have become discouraged. So I kept
hoping and hoping to right myself, but I only sank deeper and deeper in the
mire." While Silwood was speaking, a dark painful flush overspread Eversleigh's
face, then the blood ebbed slowly away from it, and left the cheeks deathly
pale. "I have put off telling you of our position," continued Silwood, in the
same measured, monotonous, curiously callous voice that he had spoken in during
most of the interview, "but the early coming--he may be here any day--of Morris
Thornton compels me to state exactly how we stand. You see now why I am so
anxious to know the date of his return to England." Eversleigh slowly raised his
head and looked at Silwood the reproach, anger, and rage he felt but could not
express--he was so overcome, so dazed, that his tongue could not find words. He
saw with appalling clearness, as in a flash of lightning, all that Silwood's
disclosure meant--dishonour, ruin, and the convict's cell for himself, the brand
of shame and infamy for his family. He had blindly trusted Silwood all these
years, and, though he himself had taken not a penny of the clients' funds, the
law would hold him equally guilty with his partner. "Something must be done,"
urged Silwood. "There is only one thing to do," said Eversleigh, finding words
at last; "we must make the truth known at once." "No," said Silwood,
emphatically; "that would be sheer folly; it will be soon enough to act in that
way when we must. Besides, is there no scheme that we can devise to----"

"What scheme could be devised?" "I have thought of one," said Silwood, and for
several minutes he spoke to Eversleigh in low tones of persuasion, but
Eversleigh refused to agree to what he proposed. "No," said Eversleigh, finally;
"I'll never consent to that--never, come what may." "Think it over, Frank,"
Silwood pressed him--"think it over calmly; and, in any case, there is no need
for precipitancy." "If I did my duty," said Eversleigh, with a groan, "I should
hand you and myself over to the police!" "That would be madness," replied
Silwood. "Think of it, man! You will never be such a fool." Eversleigh rose to
his feet with a sudden pathetic dignity. "Leave me!" he commanded Silwood; "I
can bear no more." And Cooper Silwood hesitated, then obeyed. When he was gone
out of the room, Eversleigh sat staring, staring at the door. It seemed to him
incredible, impossible, that a few brief minutes could work such havoc, such
disaster, such irremediable ruin. Only a short time before, that fine young man,
that handsome and debonair son of his, of whom he was so proud, had stood in
this room, and had gone away smiling and hopeful; and now----

Eversleigh felt like one in a nightmare falling through immeasurable depths.
CHAPTER III

That afternoon Gilbert Eversleigh went over, as he had intended, to Ivydene, his
father's residence in Surbiton, a large and commodious villa standing among
trees and shrubs in its own grounds on the road from Kingston to Thames Ditton,
about three-quarters of a mile from the market-place of the former. From its
upper windows there were to be got pleasant glimpses of the river and of the
Home Park beyond. The Eversleighs were very fond of their house, and, in an
unassertive way, proud of it. Certainly it was the centre of as sweet and well-
ordered a home-life as any in England. Gilbert's telegram to his mother had
prepared her for his coming, and when he arrived he was warmly greeted by her
and his sister Helen, a fair girl with the family good-looks, who inquired if he
was going to spend the rest of the day with them. Gilbert replied that he did
not purpose returning to town till the last train, and suggested it would be
"very nice on the river." While he was speaking, Miss Kitty Thornton made her
appearance, and as she shook hands with him his eyes sparkled with admiration--
and small wonder! For Miss Kitty was a splendid piece of flesh and blood, full
of life and the joy and the spirit of youth. A little over twenty-one, she was
old enough to be a woman and young enough to be a girl. She was not too tall nor
too slim. She belonged to the dark type. She had black hair and plenty of it,
and big black expressive eyes which often spoke her thoughts when her tongue was
silent; on each cheek glowed a spot of bright colour as large as a half-opened
wild rose, but of a deeper shade; her lips were of a deeper shade still; her
skin was of a warm dusky tint. It was a strikingly brilliant face, but it had a
delicacy of feature, a fineness of line not common in dark women. When it was in
repose it was beautiful, yet somehow it hinted sorrow, melancholy, unhappy love,
tragedy; but it was seldom in repose, and when it was lit up with animation,
with feeling or laughter, as it usually was, it was as radiantly lovely as
mortal man could wish to see. There was a great heart in her too, but it had not
yet been tried and proved. Hitherto she had moved in a sheltered world; of evil,
and the unending struggle and strife of men and women outside, she had only a
faint conception; the din of life had never clashed upon her ears. Her father,
on the death of her mother, had brought her over from Canada to Mrs. Eversleigh,
begging the wife of his old friend to take care of her for him. And Mrs.
Eversleigh, a gracious woman, had gladly assented to his request. Kitty thus
became a member of the family, and was educated along with Helen both in England
and on the continent. The girls were like sisters. Kitty was deeply attached to
Mrs. Eversleigh, and, in a less degree, to Francis Eversleigh. She was very
happy with the Eversleighs. "Have they told you the good news, Gilbert?" asked
Kitty, a note of rejoicing in her voice. "Not yet," interposed Helen Eversleigh;
"there hasn't been time." "Tell me," said Gilbert, with a smile. "What is it?"
"I got a letter from my father this morning, and he says that he is returning to
England very soon," said Kitty, gleefully. "That is indeed good news for you,"
Gilbert agreed. "I thought you looked very much pleased about something," he
added. "Pleased! I should say I am!" "And when is he coming?" asked Gilbert. "He
says he will be here very soon," answered Kitty--"in a few days after his
letter. He does not say quite when, but he writes, 'I will pop in and surprise
you some day in the week next after that in which you receive this.' The very
uncertainty as to the date," remarked the girl, brightly, "gives a keener edge
to one's pleasure." "I dare say that is what he intended," said Mrs. Eversleigh.
The three ladies looked delighted--as indeed they were. Gilbert seemed delighted
also, but inwardly the news made him feel downcast. Passionately as he loved
Kitty Thornton, the thought of the large fortune she would inherit, which Morris
Thornton's approaching visit brought home to him afresh, had been a check upon
him; so, too, was the fact that she was the ward, in a measure, of his father.
These considerations had imposed upon him silence and a certain self-control;
still he had an idea that Kitty could not be altogether unconscious of his love
for her. He knew she liked him, and it was his fond hope that he might "drive
this liking to the name of love." But so far he had not ventured to voice his
hope in words. And now he wondered if her father's return would make a
difference, and what her father would think of him and his suit. "He will think
I am not good enough for her," he said to himself, "and of course I'm not.
Besides, as she's a great heiress, he will expect her to make some splendid
match--and I am only a young barrister with my career just beginning." All this
passed through his mind on hearing Kitty's "good news," which he felt might not
be equally good news so far as he was concerned, but he strove to look as happy
over it as she was. "We shall all be very glad to see him," said he to the girl,
mendaciously. "What shall we do with ourselves this afternoon?" asked Kitty,
changing the topic. "Now you are here, Gilbert, we must make some use of you."
"He was talking of going on the river," remarked Helen. "Yes, yes," said Kitty,
eagerly. "I never tire of the river." "Will you come, mother?" inquired Gilbert
of Mrs. Eversleigh. But Mrs. Eversleigh declined on the plea of having some
household matters to attend to. "I can't go with you," she said, "but I'll tell
you what to do. You two girls can take your cycles, and Gilbert can borrow his
brother Ernest's wheel, and ride to Molesey." "And get a punt there. The very
thing," said Gilbert, in the mood to welcome hard exercise, and so to work off
his trouble. "I suppose," he said to his mother, "I'll find some of Ernie's
boating things in his room?" "Oh yes," said Mrs. Eversleigh, and he went off to
change his clothes. Presently the three young people were cycling to Molesey,
which they soon reached. A punt was quickly procured, and, in a few seconds
more, Gilbert was poling it up-stream with remarkable vigour considering the
heat of the day. "You are working hard," said Kitty, noting his extraordinary
exertions. "Oh, never mind him," sweetly remarked his sister. "It's good for
him." "But won't you over-heat yourself, Gilbert?" asked Kitty. And though he
replied with thanks that he was all right, she insisted after a short while that
he must take an easy, and moor the punt under a shady bank. He obeyed her, and
then Kitty, to his secret discomfiture, must needs talk about the coming of her
father, her heart being full of the subject. And as she talked his trouble
seemed to melt away, for she spoke of the happy times they all would have when
Morris Thornton was in England, and obviously included Gilbert in her notion of
these happy times. The three chatted gaily for an hour, and then they set off
down-stream. They had gone several hundred yards, perhaps, when they met, moving
at top speed, a racing-skiff, the occupant of which bowed to them with a rapid
inclination of his head, but did not stop. "It's Harry Bennet," said Helen
Eversleigh, gazing after him, and waving her hand. "How are you, Harry?" Gilbert
had shouted, as the boat went past. Bennet, now some distance away, rested on
his oars, and waved his hand to Helen, who was still regarding him, as was also
Kitty; but it was the latter at whom he looked. However, he did not seek to
talk, but watched the punt until it disappeared round a bend of the stream. His
face thereupon expressed mingled feelings--a tremendous admiration of Kitty
Thornton, and an intense hatred of Gilbert Eversleigh, whom he proceeded to
curse aloud when out of sight, being the chief. "He's a fine oarsman, a fine
athlete," observed Helen, as the punt went on down-stream. She referred to Harry
Bennet, whom she had known all her life, and for whom she had a liking. "I can't
believe he is the bad lot they say he is. If only he was not so keen on racing
and betting! It's said that he is losing all his money and ruining himself. It
seems such a pity!" And she sighed. "Yes," said Kitty, glancing at her friend;
but she did not continue the conversation. She knew of Helen's feeling for
Bennet, but it was a feeling she herself did not share. As for Gilbert, he said
nothing at all either good or bad about the man whom he understood very well was
his rival. But he had heard what was being said about Bennet quite openly, the
sum and substance of which was that Harry had become a reckless and inveterate
gambler. The girls had heard something of this too, but only in the most general
way. All three, however, were cognisant of the main facts of Bennet's life: how
his father had died when he was a child, and how he had been petted, spoiled,
and indulged by a foolish doting mother; how he had consequently grown into a
wilful, headstrong, intractable boy; how, as he neared man-hood, he showed a
gift of marvellous physical strength, in the development of which there for a
time lay an illusory hope of his improvement; how, in his first year at the
university, he had been a member of the crew which, after a long series of
Oxford triumphs, had at last given a victory to the light blues; and how, on
coming into his property a few months later, he had forthwith left Cambridge and
taken to racing with frantic zest. "It is such a pity," Helen went on; "but I
think that so long as he keeps up his rowing there is a chance for him." But now
they were back at Molesey, and nothing more was said of Bennet at the time. At
dinner in the evening, however, Helen spoke of their having seen him on the
river, and repeated what she had said about it being a hopeful sign that he kept
up his rowing. "I think he doesn't row very much now," said her brother Ernest,
who was a solicitor like his father, and expected soon to be a partner in the
Lincoln's Inn firm. "He simply can't have the time. His stable and his horses
and his betting-book absorb him entirely. I wonder what that new horse of his--
he calls it 'Go Nap'--will do for him. He's sure to back it heavily." "'Go
Nap'!" said Gilbert. "That's rather suggestive of a plunge." "Isn't it? Harry is
a terrific plunger anyway." "Oh, don't let us talk about Harry Bennet," said
Francis Eversleigh, from the head of the table, where he had been sitting in
moody silence. He was so utterly unlike himself, indeed, that his wife was
alarmed, but when she asked what ailed him he said he had "a rather bad
headache"--a statement which scarcely reassured her, as she knew he never had
headaches; and when she pressed him further, he replied sharply and irritably.
But the wretched man hardly knew what he was saying or doing. One part of
Silwood's advice he had made up his mind to accept and act upon, and this was
that he would do nothing to forestall the fate which must over-take the firm,
but to let things drift till the crash came. And, having come to this
conclusion, the unfortunate solicitor told himself that he must try to behave as
usual in his family circle. But he found it impossible. The tragic swiftness and
completeness of the stroke dealt him by Silwood was too much for him. Now, as he
thought of his home, and of his wife and children, and of the frightful secret
he carried in his breast of the ruin hanging over them, a bitterness worse than
that of death possessed him. Generally full of easy agreeable small-talk, that
night he was gloomy and dumb. He made one effort only to talk. Kitty mentioned
having had a letter from her father, whereupon he stated that the firm had also
had one from Mr. Thornton. "By the way," he said, striving to speak in his
ordinary tones, "your father made a curious omission in his letter to us; he
does not specify when he is coming--gives no precise date. I dare say it was an
oversight. I suppose he tells you in your letter just when to expect him,
Kitty?" "No, he doesn't, Mr. Eversleigh--at least, not very precisely. He says
he'll come soon after his letter, but he does not fix any date, as he wants to
give me a little surprise. Still, I think he'll be here some day next week."
"Next week!" said Eversleigh, slowly and painfully. To him it was the voice of
doom, and he relapsed into silence again. CHAPTER IV

Dinner over, Francis Eversleigh retired to his room, again excusing himself on
the plea of headache, adding in a very uncertain voice that he would no doubt be
better in the morning; but he looked harassed, worn, and ill. His wife concealed
her consternation at his state as well as she could, and mentally tried to
assign some cause for it; on reflection she thought that his reference at table
to Harry Bennet, whose affairs, now much involved, she knew to be in the hands
of the firm, probably suggested the correct explanation. Anxious to minister to
her husband, and to find out if possible what distressed him so sorely, she
wished to be alone with him, and she urged the others to go out for a stroll by
the river. As the young people, nothing loth, went out, the two brothers
exchanged a few words, Gilbert asking Ernest if he knew of anything in the
office that had upset their father. "I saw him in the forenoon," he remarked,
"and he was looking as well as could be then. I hope he's not going to have an
illness." "I know of nothing particularly worrying in the office," returned
Ernest. "How should there be? I fancy it is just as he says--he's got a bad
headache, perhaps from the heat. I don't fancy that there is anything else the
matter with him. He'll be all right to-morrow, you'll see." Now, when Gilbert
was at Surbiton, there was an unwritten law that when they took their walks
abroad he should pair off with Kitty, and Ernest with Helen. This arrangement
was so well understood that Ernest never thought of even grumbling at it. So
Gilbert and Kitty led the way to the terrace or esplanade on that side of the
Thames, where they found a sequestered seat. And there they were left by the
other two, who walked on towards the waterworks. It was a delightful summer
evening. The air was soft, balmy, sweet; a light breeze whispered delicate
suggestions, and wooed to pleasant thoughts and tender fancies; a crescent moon,
shining low over the trees on to the water, brought to the scene that touch of
sentiment which is the very breath of poetry and romance. It was a night for
lovers! Love, passion, sighs, smiles, fond hopes, fervent vows, eloquent
prayers, the gentle rain of happy tears--all were in the enchanted atmosphere of
the place that night. It was one of those magical nights on which the heart is
likely to be easily and perhaps profoundly stirred, and Gilbert Eversleigh, with
the woman he loved by his side, was in a frame of mind to respond only too
quickly to its influence. He longed to speak to Kitty, to tell her that he loved
her, to ask her to unite her life with his, to press her dear hand, to taste the
sweetness of her lips; but he forced himself to silence, though the restraint he
imposed on his desire for utterance made it but gain the greater strength. It
may be that Kitty suspected she was on the edge of a crisis, for she too was
quiet, and for the first time in her life somehow felt shy with Gilbert. Of
course she did not require any one to tell her that he loved her, and more than
once she had asked herself if she loved him, and she had answered "Yes." Thus,
though words of love had never passed between them, she was none the less
conscious of the existence of their love. And this made life joy, even if there
was at the back of her mind a tremulous maidenly sensitiveness which made her
half afraid of her happiness. An instinct of reserve now warned her to say or do
nothing which could be taken by Gilbert as an opening. Therefore a sort of
constraint fell upon them, but still there was a sweetness about it; for was
there not a nearness and an intimacy in the dreamy brooding silence, the outward
sign of this constraint, which was only possible between true lovers? And thus
they sat for some minutes, apart and yet together. It was Kitty herself who
spoke first. Her thought of Gilbert associated itself with that other subject
about which she was also so glad--the coming of her father, and it was of him
she spoke. "Do you remember my father, Gilbert?" she asked. "Perfectly," replied
Gilbert. "I had just come back from school for the last time, and--he was very
kind to me. Of course, I remember him quite well. And--and--it was then that he
brought you to our house." "That was seven years ago," said Kitty. "Seven years!
I haven't seen him for all these years. I wonder if he is much changed? He will
see a great change in me. I was only a girl, a little girl, then, and now I am a
woman." As she uttered the last words she glanced a little apprehensively at her
companion, for she felt she had perhaps given him an opportunity. She saw his
face was clouded; his eyes were fixed on a point in the distance, and he did not
speak. "Your father's return," at length said he, with a sigh, "will make a
difference, I fear." "In what way?" inquired Kitty, not at once following hard
on the track of what was passing in his mind. "He will take you from us," said
Gilbert; and then he added, inconsequently and involuntarily, "I wonder if he
will like me?" And the girl now understood. "Like you! Of course he will," she
exclaimed, in a tone which made him proud and happy. There was an emphasis in
her voice which seemed to assert that it would be impossible for her father to
criticise him--at all events adversely. "It would mean so much to me," he
exclaimed, turning towards her. Kitty stole a glance at him, and she observed
that his face was no longer clouded, but bore a grave, questioning expression
like that of a man in doubt with regard to some deeply serious matter. "It would
mean all the world to me," he said, meeting her glance. "Why?" rose to Kitty's
lips, but the words went no further. For as Gilbert kept his gaze fastened upon
her, a subtle change was worked in his eyes; they were no longer shaded with
doubt or anxious inquiry; they searched and challenged her with passionate
appeal; they unmistakably asked the question of questions man can put to woman.
And though no sound passed Kitty Thornton's lips, she made no pretence of
misunderstanding him. All the woman in her instantaneously rose up in quick
response. All the love in her heart suddenly surged up in a great wave of
feeling which flooded her eyes, now deep pools of light, with an unmistakable
answer to the unmistakable question in his, thus bent upon her. Yet she trembled
slightly, for she felt herself in the grasp of something new and strange and
delightful, but just a little terrible and alarming. And when Gilbert Eversleigh
saw what he saw in Kitty's eyes, self-control became impossible, and he could
restrain himself no longer. "Kitty, Kitty," he said, in a deep earnest voice
which thrilled the girl as she listened--"Kitty, my darling, I love you, I love
you!" Kitty trembled still more, and lowered her eyes shyly--perhaps to hide the
light that glowed in them. "Kitty," he said, his voice somewhat uncertain for an
instant as he looked at her downcast face--"Kitty, my dear, you must know that I
love you. Now that I have said it, I should like to go on for ever saying 'I
love you, I love you!' You are everything to me--everything to me," he repeated,
with a lover's fond iteration. "Oh, my dear, tell me that you love me!" Kitty
raised her eyes. "Listen to me a moment, Kitty," said Gilbert, who had seen the
message she flashed to him, and was greatly encouraged thereby. "Let me tell you
all that is in my heart." The girl now looked at him, some wonder in her glance,
as she asked herself if he had not said already all that was in his heart, but
as he went on she saw what he meant. "I love you better than life," he began,
"but I am not sure that I have done right in saying to you what I have said. I
had not intended----I was carried away ..." And he paused. "What is it?" asked
Kitty, and there was such childlike trust and innocence in the way she made this
inquiry that he had to put strong compulsion on himself to keep from placing his
arm round her waist and drawing her toward him. "You have spoken two or three
times to-day about your father," replied Gilbert, "and each time you gave me,
without knowing it, a pang, because, Kitty dear, I am afraid that he may not
think me good enough for you, not rich enough, not placed high enough, for you.
I had intended to wait until he came before speaking to you--I suppose I ought
to have asked his permission to address you first. Do you see, Kitty? But to-
night--well, I found I could wait no longer, and so must tell you all that was
in my heart. Your father may blame me, Kitty. He might say that you should see
far more of life than you have before even thinking of marriage. Yet, Kitty,
after all it rests with you. Kitty, Kitty, what do you say, my darling? I cannot
help loving you--I can never cease to love you. Tell me, do you love me? Say you
love me!" And he put forth his hand with a gesture of entreaty. Long before this
Kitty's shyness had fallen from her, her maidenly hesitation had disappeared.
She had a feeling that Gilbert Eversleigh had been fore-ordained her lover
before the foundations of the earth were laid--so vast was the certainty that
filled her mind. The very statement of the difficulty in which he found himself
with regard to her father helped her inevitably to this conclusion. It was noble
of him, she thought, to take this attitude, and if he had not been able to stick
to it, was she the one to condemn him for it? No, indeed. "You are more to me,
Gilbert," she said, quietly but firmly, "than my father--than all the fathers in
the world. You are everything to me, just as I am everything to you." As she
spoke, she inclined towards him with a beautiful movement of surrender and
invitation. He caught her in his arms and strained her yielding form in his
embrace; their lips met and met again; a sweet agitation which grew into an
ecstasy possessed them both; they seemed to reach and stand on a pinnacle of
brightness and delight far removed from the grey levels on which moved ordinary
men and women through the shadows of life; they murmured to each other the sweet
foolish things that lovers always murmur, and in their ears never was diviner
music. And as for Morris Thornton--why, Kitty said that he would be proud of
Gilbert, and the very first thing she would do on his arrival would be to tell
him that she was engaged. "Of course," added Kitty, "he will be pleased, because
I am pleased." "Are you still here?" asked Ernest Eversleigh, who with his
sister now walked up to the bench where the lovers were sitting. "We thought you
were coming on after us, and we waited for you for some time, but as you did not
turn up we came back again." And thus were the lovers brought down to the
everyday world. "Is it time to go in?" asked Gilbert, who was unamiably wishing
his brother at Jericho. "I should think it is--particularly if you intend to
catch a train to town to-night," replied Ernest. "Let us go in," said Kitty,
rising from the seat and linking her arm with that of Helen, somewhat to
Gilbert's astonishment, until it occurred to him that she might wish to tell the
other girl what had happened. The party--the girls first, the brothers in the
rear--now returned to Ivydene, where on their entrance into the house they
encountered Francis Eversleigh, looking haggard and ghastly; he had felt too
unutterably wretched to stay in his room where his wife in vain sought to tend
and soothe him, and had come downstairs to see if he could not find some
distraction. Gilbert moved up to Kitty's side, and, as the two stood together,
their faces were tell-tale. "Father," said Gilbert, blushing furiously, "Kitty
has promised to be my wife." Helen Eversleigh rushed forward and threw her arms
round Kitty's neck, exclaiming, "Oh, you dear!" while Ernest warmly shook his
brother's hand, but their father stood stock-still. He tried to speak, but the
words were choked in his throat. Again he essayed to say something, but could
not. With a groan he suddenly turned from them and fled upstairs. "Father!"
exclaimed Gilbert, calling after him. "What can be the matter with him, I
wonder?" he said to Ernest, who merely answered that he could not tell. And then
the two lovers looked at each other. They both felt that Francis Eversleigh had
behaved very strangely. "I'm afraid Mr. Eversleigh is not at all well," said
Kitty. "I am so sorry." "Yes, father must be ill," agreed Gilbert; "still, I
think it can't be anything very serious. And now, I suppose I must go," he added
with a sigh. The lovers bade each other good-bye in the porch. Absorbed in their
happiness, they thought no more of Francis Eversleigh. And when Gilbert spent
the following day, which was a Sunday, at Surbiton, it was only to be expected
that the lovers, after the immemorial manner of lovers, should concern
themselves with themselves and their own affairs. Francis Eversleigh remained in
his room the whole day; he could not bear to see any one. CHAPTER V

On the Monday morning Francis Eversleigh did not appear at breakfast. Mrs.
Eversleigh told Ernest that his father was asleep after having passed a wakeful
night, and she was sure he would not feel equal to going to the office. When
Ernest inquired, as was natural, if she intended sending for a doctor, she
replied that a suggestion she had made in the night to that effect had been
peremptorily negatived by her husband, who maintained that he was suffering from
a slight attack for which it was absurd to call in a physician. "I am very
anxious, however, about him," she said. She paused and looked meditatively at
her son. "Do you know, Ernest," she continued, "if your father has on hand some
exceptionally difficult business just now, or if there is some client who is
giving him cause for unusual anxiety?" She was thinking of Bennet. "I am quite
certain there is absolutely nothing of such gravity as to make him ill," replied
Ernest, with conviction. "Why, work goes on at the office from day to day and
from month to month with the ease and regularity of machinery. But why do you
ask this, mother?" "Because it has occurred to me that there is something on
your father's mind, and it is that which is making him ill."

"Indeed! Oh, I think you must be mistaken, mother." "I hope so," she rejoined,
but not in a really hopeful tone. "One of the things which perplex me is that he
seems to take very little pleasure in the engagement of Kitty and Gilbert--that
is strange, is it not? Then again, you would suppose he would be looking forward
with interest to seeing his old friend Morris Thornton once more, yet, when I
referred to it, he spoke in such a queer way. I can't understand him at all." As
Ernest was about to speak Miss Kitty Thornton entered the room, and conversation
passed to other topics. And as for Kitty herself, her brilliant beauty appeared
to have been enhanced by the happy event of her engagement, for never had she
looked so lovely as she did that morning, and there was on her face a light of
happiness which was good to see. "Is there anything I can do for you?" Ernest
asked Kitty. "Can I carry a message, for instance," he went on, with a grin,
rising to leave the room, "to a certain barrister in the Temple?" But Miss Kitty
merely smiled and shook her pretty head. "I won't have her teased," said Mrs.
Eversleigh; but the offender had already vanished. When Silwood reached his room
in New Square he found not only Williamson waiting as usual, but also Ernest
Eversleigh. "I am sorry to have to tell you," said Ernest, "that my father is
indisposed. He will not be here to-day." "Mr. Eversleigh ill!" exclaimed
Silwood, and stopped; inwardly he termed Eversleigh a poor weak fool without a
particle of grit. Aloud he said, clicking out the words stiffly, "I am very
sorry to hear it. What is the trouble?" "I don't think it is anything serious;
he'll be all right by to-morrow." "He did not send me any message?" "He was
asleep when I left the house. Mother told me he had been awake most of the
night, but had dozed off towards morning." "I see. There was something I
expected to hear from him, but it's possible you can tell me. It's just this. We
received a letter on Saturday from Mr. Morris Thornton, in which he informed us
that he was leaving Canada for England. Well, though he spoke of being here very
soon, he did not give us any exact date. Of course, it is no great matter, but
it seems just a little curious." "It must have been an oversight," said
Williamson. "Perhaps so," assented Silwood. "I am not certain of that," remarked
Ernest. "You have heard something?" queried Silwood. "Miss Thornton has heard
from her father----"

"I had an idea she might have definite word as to the date of her father's
arrival," interposed Silwood. "Not, as I told you before, that it matters; it is
only that one likes to satisfy one's curiosity sometimes." Thus carefully did
Silwood minimize the interest he took in the date of Thornton's arrival in
London. Certainly, Ernest Eversleigh had no suspicion of the vital importance
the subject possessed, and Silwood's manner was so natural that even Williamson
was put off the scent. "Miss Thornton," said Ernest, "had a letter also on
Saturday; but her father did not specify the date of his coming to her either,
the reason being, he told her, that he wishes to give her a pleasant surprise by
dropping in on her when she isn't expecting him. Still, he said enough to make
her expect him some day next week." "Some day next week!" repeated Silwood, with
an indrawing of the breath. Then he continued in an ordinary tone, "He wishes to
give her a surprise; that seems to me rather odd." "It is," agreed Ernest; and
then he smiled. "There is something more," suggested Silwood, seeing the smile.
"I was thinking," rejoined Ernest, laughing a little, "that the surprise will
not be all on one side. Miss Kitty has prepared a surprise for him too."
"Indeed!" "Yes. Kitty and Gilbert are engaged to be married." "Oh! Since when?"
"Saturday night. I wonder what Mr. Thornton will say about it!" "I wonder!"
echoed Silwood; but this subject did not concern him greatly, and he turned to
his letters. Ernest took the hint, and left Silwood with Williamson. After a
short talk about current business, Silwood sent away the head-clerk, having
given him instructions to attend to any urgent matter in Francis Eversleigh's
department which required immediate attention. "So Morris Thornton comes next
week," he said to himself when alone--"next week--next week. The time is short--
very short--and there is much to do." Silwood, to all appearance, went on with
his work as usual, but in reality he was thinking out the situation. What, he
asked, did Francis Eversleigh mean by absenting himself from the office--the
plea of illness was transparently absurd; and did he intend to go on absenting
himself? That could not be allowed, thought Silwood; it would never do. And
Thornton was to be in London next week! Silwood, therefore, resolved to go to
Surbiton that afternoon to see Eversleigh. His resolve did not need any
strengthening, but something occurred which would have supplied it had it been
required. This was the receipt of a telegram from Harry Bennet, telling the firm
that he had passed a demand draft on it for two thousand pounds. Silwood, having
explained to Ernest that he particularly wished to see his father, not only to
see how he was, but also to consult him with respect to Bennet's affairs,
accompanied the young man to Ivydene. Silwood had not seen Francis Eversleigh
since he had made his confession to him on the Saturday forenoon, and even his
phlegm was disturbed by the change worked in twenty-four hours on Francis, who
looked broken and seriously ill. The meeting was an intensely painful one to
Eversleigh; indeed, he thought at first of declining to see Silwood, but changed
his mind. Silwood saw Eversleigh in the latter's bedroom. "Francis," said he, in
a stiff, formal tone, "I am very sorry to see you like this. You take things too
much to heart. It's a bad blow, I know--a terrible blow. I can't tell you how
bitterly I regret what I've done--how I repent of it." Eversleigh looked at him
strangely. Ever since Silwood had confessed his guilt there had been moments
when Eversleigh felt he could murder Silwood. And now that Silwood was before
him, he fiercely asked himself why he should not kill like a rat this man whom
he had trusted so implicitly, and who had betrayed that trust so shamefully. Did
the man not deserve death? Was anything too bad for him? And these questions
were in his eyes as they fixed themselves on Silwood. "I don't suppose you came
here," he said, in a strained voice that had a curious hissing sound about it,
"to tell me this." "To tell you this, Frank," observed Silwood, meeting fully
the other's gaze, "and other things too." "What other things?" he asked
hoarsely, glancing away from Silwood. Already his impulse of murder was passing
away from his wavering mind; he was telling himself that if he killed Silwood
the lot of his wife and family would only be the more desperate. Silwood all the
while was regarding him intently. He was trying to read Eversleigh's mind, and
he came to the conclusion that Eversleigh was capable of committing suicide or
some other rash act. "Before speaking of these, Frank," replied Silwood, "let me
beg of you not to fret too much. What is the use of dwelling on what is past and
cannot now be mended?" "How can I help it?" "You must try. For one thing, you
must come to the office. It is surely better to attend to your work at the
office----"

"To attend to my work!" broke in Eversleigh. "How can I, when all my thoughts
are centred on one thing--the ruin that is coming upon me and those innocent
ones who must suffer? To attend to my work is impossible!" "Surely not." "You
know--no one better--that for years I have never attended to my work properly.
Do not think that I consider myself free from blame. I ought never to have
allowed you to get control of the whole finances of the firm. It was my duty to
have made inquiry, and to have seen that everything belonging to our clients was
in perfect order. I have been criminally neglectful--I see that very clearly;"
and as he spoke his own condemnation there was a sob in his throat. "Yes; but
how does all this prevent you from coming to the office? Is it not just the
other way? And for a short time there is no reason to be afraid. What we have to
dread most is the coming of Morris Thornton, and that, I hear, will not be till
some time next week. That gives us a little breathing-space." "Till some time
next week!" said Eversleigh. "That's not much of a respite." "Still, it's
something. But there is another thing I have to tell you." "What's that?" dully
asked Eversleigh, telling himself that at any rate he knew the worst. "We got a
telegram from Bennet saying he was drawing on us for two thousand pounds."
"Well, can't we pay it?" "Certainly; but it is inconvenient. The withdrawal of
this sum from our bank account seriously reduces our balance." "What is our
balance?" "About six thousand. With care, and if it were not for the coming of
Thornton, we might be able to carry on for a long time." "I have been thinking
over our affairs," said Eversleigh, "since you spoke to me yesterday, and it
seems to me we ought to call in a first-class accountant to make a thorough
investigation." "And what would be the inevitable result?" asked Silwood, drily.
"We should know--I should know--how we stand." "But I know quite well." "I
suppose so. What is the amount of your--of our, I suppose I must say--
defalcations?" "About four hundred thousand. That would be a nice thing for an
accountant to discover, to certify to! No, Francis, it is absurd to call in an
accountant. It would not be long before he found out we were insolvent, and--
defaulters. What service would that be to you or to the firm? None whatever."
"No, perhaps it would not do," acquiesced Eversleigh, weakly. "You said four
hundred thousand. How could you have been such a fool as to lose so much money?
Four hundred thousand!" "I was a fool, Frank. But it's easy enough for a wise
man to lose more than that on the Stock Exchange." "Well," sighed Eversleigh,
hopelessly, "I don't know what's to be done." "Why, nothing at present. And
perhaps, Francis, your personal position is not so bad. Ernest told me of the
engagement of Miss Thornton to Gilbert. That, surely, is an excellent thing for
you. When her father finds out the state of affairs he will be silent. He will
certainly not care to prosecute the father of his daughter's accepted husband,
will he?" "He will insist on the engagement being broken off." "Perhaps, but
perhaps not. Leaving that aside, have you thought of the scheme I
mentioned----?" "Yes, yes; I have considered it," replied Eversleigh; then he
looked at Silwood wonderingly, and said, "You take our position--my position--
very coolly, Cooper. One would think you had no real conception of what you have
done." "Well," rejoined Silwood, hardily, "you see, it is all new to you,
Francis, but it is no novelty to me. I have been familiar with our position for
a long time--for years. But this is quite beside the point. Let us come to
business. Do you intend to adopt my scheme?" "I do not," said Eversleigh,
firmly. "It is preposterous." "If you will be advised by me----"

"Not in this," Eversleigh cried excitedly, "not in this. Would to God I had
never been born!" he exclaimed. And he begged Silwood to leave him, promising to
be at the office, however, next day. As Silwood travelled back to town there was
a singular and enigmatic expression on his face; he was thinking that
Eversleigh's consent to what he had proposed was not essential, and, this being
so, that he would act alone. CHAPTER VI

Francis Eversleigh returned to the office in Lincoln's Inn next day, and strove
to take up his work again, but with indifferent success; the shadow of his
impending ruin never lifted itself from his mind. On the other hand, Cooper
Silwood, having determined to act alone, began to make preparations for carrying
out his scheme. All that day Silwood was incessantly occupied with the ordinary
business of that department of the office which was his special care. No man
could have told from his aspect, or from the manner in which he did his
business, that anything pressed heavily upon him; he seemed in no way different
from the imperturbable, shrewd, capable lawyer people believed him always to be.
But what he purposed doing was never absent from his thoughts. According to
custom, at six o'clock Williamson brought him the letters for signature. This
signing of the letters served as a sort of signal, for shortly afterwards the
clerks left and the office was closed, though it was not an uncommon thing for
Silwood to stay on by himself for another hour or two. The Eversleighs went
earlier in order to catch the fast five-o'clock suburban train. At six o'clock
Williamson went into Silwood's room with the letters; he placed them silently
before his master, who read them over rapidly, and then affixed the firm's
signature in his careful, small handwriting. Williamson stood waiting, while he
tried to read his master's face, but Silwood's air was perfectly inscrutable. "I
shall not go at once," said Silwood. "I have not quite finished; but there is no
need for any one to stay." He gathered the letters together in a bunch, and
passed them on to Williamson. "By the way," he asked, looking at the clerk with
a sharp glance, "how does Mr. Eversleigh strike you? I'm afraid he's not very
well." "I thought he seemed poorly--very poorly," replied Williamson. "I felt
very sorry for him, and I ventured to suggest--having been with the firm so many
years, sir--to him that he needed a holiday." "You did! That was good. It's my
own idea, too. And what did he say?" "He said he was all right, or soon would
be; there was nothing much the matter with him. Said it was the heat." "But
about taking a holiday?" "He said it was not at all necessary." "Well, I agree
with you, Mr. Williamson. It seems to me that he does need a change. I told him
that also. I urged him to take a month off, but he won't hear of it. He keeps on
saying he is not ill really--only a bit out of sorts owing to the hot weather.
And it is hot, isn't it? I must confess I feel this frightful heat very much;
the office is horribly close. Unless the weather becomes cooler, I declare I
shall require a holiday myself. And if Mr. Eversleigh still persists in refusing
a holiday--well, I believe I shall take one. I haven't had a real vacation for a
very long time. But I had much rather he went." "You certainly have had no
holiday, Mr. Silwood, for a long time--three or four years, it must be," said
Williamson, immensely surprised at the turn the conversation had taken. "When
would you think of going, sir?" "Oh, I haven't thought much about it all,"
replied Silwood; "my taking a holiday is only a possibility. Still, if this heat
does not moderate, I should not wonder if I did go. But it's not settled." "I
understand, sir," said Williamson, who, as a matter of fact, was completely
mystified. "What's up now?" he asked himself. Still, on reflection, he had to
admit there was no reason why Silwood should not take a holiday if he wished to
do so. "That's all, I think," said Silwood; and with a nod he dismissed the
head-clerk. Silwood waited for half an hour, so as to allow plenty of time for
all the clerks to have left the office, and then he took a look into the various
rooms to see if there was any one still there; but they were all empty.
Satisfied on this point, he returned to his own room and shut himself in. Next
he went to the large japanned box in the corner, touched the concealed spring,
and laid open the secret chamber, from which he took a number of papers,
including the sheet of figures against which were placed initials. He pored over
these papers, studying them with the intentness of one who is committing a
subject to memory. He made two or three alterations in the figures, and then put
all the documents back in their hiding-place. He tried to close up the chamber,
but the spring would not work properly. He tried again and again, but he did not
succeed. With each failure his manner showed a rapidly rising agitation, an
increasing apprehension, his usual impassivity dropping away from him
completely. He examined the mechanism of the arrangement, but he could find
nothing wrong with it; so far as he could see, it appeared to be in perfect
order. As he struggled with it, his pale face became extraordinarily livid, his
lips twitched convulsively, the perspiration stood in beads on his forehead. For
he knew that if the box would not shut, then his scheme would tumble to pieces.
He had almost given it up in despair when the accidental pressure of his knee
against one of the sides of the box caused the spring to act, and the opening
suddenly closed up of itself. Trembling and gasping, Silwood sat down and looked
at the box as if it were some hateful living thing. "It ought to be seen to," he
said to himself, "but I cannot permit any one to touch it. No one but myself
must know of the secret chamber--that is vital. And yet--no, I must run the
risk." He went on looking darkly at the box. "Oh, what a fright you gave me!" he
said aloud to it, and then glanced about fearfully at the sound of his own
voice. "How absurd!" he said to himself, reassuringly. "I must not let the thing
get on my nerves like this." It was now not far from eight o'clock, which was
the hour for Silwood's dinner. In a few minutes more, therefore, he betook
himself to the restaurant in Holborn which he was in the habit of patronizing. A
little after nine he walked back to Lincoln's Inn, which he entered by the small
door at the side of the fine gateway opening into Lincoln's Inn Fields. He spoke
to the porter for some seconds, and then went on to his private chambers in
Stone Buildings, his rooms being on the top floor of the north-east corner
building overlooking Chancery Lane. He had lived here for several years. After
he had let himself in he locked the door, filled a black clay pipe and lit it,
took an armchair and sat down. And there he sat for a long while very still and
quiet, save for the puff--puff--puffing of the smoke from his lips. The pipe
burnt itself out, and he looked at his watch. "It is too soon," he said to
himself; and he filled a second black clay pipe. And this too he smoked out.
With a leisurely movement he at length rose and went to the window, threw up the
sash, and peered out into the half-darkness of the street. He ran his eye up and
down Chancery Lane, and noted that all the lights except the street-lamps were
out, and that the pavements were bare of human forms, save for one or two dark-
flitting, shadowy beings. "It will soon be time," he thought; and he closed the
window. He sat down again, and proceeded to smoke a third pipe. All the while he
had been going over the details of his scheme; now he was thinking whether he
had not been too abrupt in making the suggestion that he might take a holiday to
Williamson. "What does it matter?" he concluded; "he knows nothing." He smoked
on until twelve boomed through the air--the strokes came in a great volume of
sound from the clocks in the Strand and from far and near. When it had died
away, he put down his pipe, and walked into his bedroom. But it was not to go to
bed. For, a few minutes later, a figure emerged from Cooper Silwood's bedroom--
the figure of a man of the height and general build of Cooper Silwood, but
otherwise not like him in the least. Yet it was he, though changed beyond
recognition. His mien was that of a respectable workman in his everyday clothes.
They were such clothes as might be worn by men of half a dozen different trades
with equal appropriateness, so little distinctive of any one trade were they,
and yet they stamped themselves unmistakably as a workman's clothes. Silwood
wore them like one who was thoroughly at home in them; he moved at ease in them.
To all appearance he was a workman, and from his bearing it might be guessed
that the part he was playing was no new one. To be in this disguise was no
novelty to him. That it was no new _rôle_ for him to assume was also manifest
from the skill and success with which his face was made up. To begin with, the
heavy brown wig he usually had on his head had disappeared, and he was now quite
bald, with the exception of a narrow fringe of dark-grey hair round the base of
the skull. He was no longer clean-shaven; an untidy blackish moustache covered
his upper lip. A dark line had been pencilled on either side of his nose, these
lines alone imparting to the face a marvellous change in its expression.
Besides, the skin of the face had been slightly stained, as had also been that
of the hands. His disguise was absolute. His own mother, as the phrase goes,
would not have known him. He looked to the life the part he was playing. Mr.
Cooper Silwood, the eminent solicitor, had disappeared, and a sober, respectable
workman had taken his place. Could Francis Eversleigh now have seen this partner
of his he would have had much food for thought; if he could have followed him he
would have had much more. The night was now very still--the roar of London was
hushed. Silwood opened his door gently, and listened. The stairs were lit, but
no sound came from any of the chambers. Locking his door softly, he stole down
into the court of Stone Buildings; they, too, were wrapped in silence. For a
moment he stood still and strained his ears to catch the slightest noise, but
there was not a breath. Taking from his pocket a key, he unlocked a small iron
gate at the north-east corner of the court, and passed through it and went along
a short narrow footway closed on the Chancery Lane side by another iron gate,
which he opened, and so reached Chancery Lane. All this he did without hurry or
confusion. It was plain that he had got out of Lincoln's Inn by this footway
many times before. Yet it was believed to be shut up every evening by the
porter, who was supposed to be the only person possessing the keys of the gates.
From this footway--which is not much used even in the day-time, and is hardly to
be noticed at all in the night-time--to Holborn is but a step. Silwood found
Chancery Lane deserted; no one saw him emerge from the Inn. He was quickly in
Holborn, and set out eastwards at a rapid pace. And on he went, mile after mile,
stepping out briskly, through the city proper, and on, on beyond it until he
reached one of the great districts of East-End London, where in small humble
houses, huddled together in a wilderness of mean streets, thousands upon
thousands live out their obscure and uneventful lives. Silwood went on like a
man who knows his way well. Never once did he pause until he reached the end of
his journey. He halted at a door in Douglas Street, Stepney, and knocked a
peculiar knock. Two or three minutes passed, and then a light was shown at the
window, whereupon Silwood knocked in the same way a second time. "Is it you,
James?" asked a woman's voice, as the door was partially opened. "Yes, Meg; let
me in," said Silwood. "I did not expect you," she said, while Silwood embraced
her affectionately. "Is anything the matter?" The woman who put the question was
a plump, personable woman of about forty, with kindly brown eyes and a tender
mouth. She loved but was rather afraid of this man, who yet was always good and
kind to her. But he had told her very little about himself. She knew he was
engaged in some mysterious business which necessitated long absences from her,
and the wearing of a disguise; she had tried to guess the nature of his
business, and had come to the conclusion that it was some kind of secret police
work. Any romance there was in Silwood's life was connected with this woman, of
whom he was sincerely fond, though he was still fonder of their child. Some
years before, an accident one evening in the street led to his meeting her, and
he took a fancy to her. The thing jumping well with other things he followed her
up and married her, though he was careful not to let her know who he was. When
with her and the child Silwood was another man; he seemed to have shed like a
skin the cold formality which characterized him in Lincoln's Inn; his very
nature appeared changed. "Is anything the matter?" she asked. "No, Meg, though
there's news. But how is Davy?" "Poor lamb! He's as usual. He's asleep just
now." "Let me see him," said Silwood. They went into a bedroom, and in a cot was
their child. The boy was a cripple--he had been born a cripple, and the parents
were all the more attached to him on that account. There is no explaining the
workings of human nature; Silwood, who had confessed himself a criminal to his
partner, Eversleigh, was deeply attached to the boy. He now gazed at the
sleeping child, and the love that shone in his eyes was as pure as an angel's.
"Poor lad! dear lad!" he said, and there were tears in his voice. Then the
father and mother tip-toed out of the room. "You said there was news, James,"
suggested the wife. "Yes, I think you won't live here much longer. My business
will take me abroad, and I dare say I will by-and-by--it may be very soon--send
for you. I may be away from England for a long time." "Away from England!" she
murmured. "Oh, James! Where is it you are going?" "I don't know," he answered;
"I am not quite sure yet. I'll let you know in a few days, and meanwhile I want
you to get ready, so that you can travel at a minute's notice." "Yes, James;
it's rather sudden, but I'll do what you tell me." "Now I must leave you," he
said. She was accustomed to these abrupt partings, but as he was going she hung
upon his neck while he kissed her repeatedly. The following day he was at his
office at half-past ten, looking as if it were impossible for such a man as he
to lead a double life. CHAPTER VII

The day on which Harry Bennet wired that he had drawn on Eversleigh, Silwood and
Eversleigh, for two thousand pounds, was the first day of the Goodwood meeting.
Bennet was a man who lost and won large sums on the turf, and it was not in the
least unusual for him to wager several thousands on a single event, especially
if it were one of the greater races. With him betting was a disease, a mania, so
strong and uncontrolled ran the gambling fever in his blood. His love for Kitty
Thornton was genuine, but it had to take a second place to this appalling
madness. When he saw her and Helen and Gilbert Eversleigh in the punt on the
river, he told himself as he rowed up-stream that he must lose no time in
declaring himself to the girl. He cursed Gilbert in his thoughts, but believed
his chance was at least as good as his rival's. And if it had not been for some
racing business he was compelled to attend to that evening, he would have gone
to Ivydene. If he had, the probability is that Kitty and Gilbert would not have
been left alone that night under the white magic of the moon, and their
engagement would not have taken place--at least, not at that particular time. If
he had gone to Ivydene that evening it is more than possible that the life-
current of their lives would have changed its course. In any case, that evening
of fate passed, and next day, being the opening at Goodwood, saw Harry on the
course plunging wildly and losing heavily. Nor had he any luck that afternoon--
hence the draft for two thousand on the solicitors, after he had exhausted his
ready money. The second day at Goodwood brought him a little better fortune, and
he came out of it without positive disaster. It was not necessary to call for
more funds. In the first race on the third day his own horse, Go Nap, ran. It
was known that the animal had done fairly well in its trials, and there was a
good deal of outside money on it. Harry, of course, backed it. Go Nap won
handsomely, and from that moment Harry's luck changed. Plunging more recklessly
than ever, he more than succeeded in recovering himself. At the end of the day
he was a heavy winner. He made his biggest coup on a horse which lost. Harry had
laid against it, although it was a hot favourite. It should have won on its form
quite easily, everybody said, and there were rumours of foul play. An
investigation was talked of and eventually was held, but nothing came of it. The
impression, however, was that there had been some "crooked work" in the matter.
None was more forward in denying it than Bennet. Fortunately for him, it was not
known that he had won a large sum, or there might have been suspicions of his
good faith. And presently the disputings, the angry arguments, the murmurings,
the bickerings, died away, but what had happened was not forgotten. On the
fourth day of the meeting Bennet was again a winner, though the total of his
gains was not so great as that of the day before. Taken altogether, however, it
had been an excellent Goodwood for him, and he was correspondingly elated. His
home was at Hampton Court, and he returned to it in high feather. The first
thing he did next morning was to go to Ivydene. He had made up his mind to speak
to Kitty of his passion, and to ask her to be his wife. Being away at the races
he had not heard of her engagement, and intoxicated with his success at Goodwood
he felt himself a conquering hero, who had only to come, and be seen, to triumph
instantly. He found Kitty at home and alone, nor did the maiden seem displeased
to see him. She had no suspicion, however, of the nature of his errand. He was
so full of his good fortune at the races, that, as soon as the customary
greetings were over, he forthwith launched out into the story of his four days'
campaign. Kitty had a pretty natural gift of listening sympathetically, and the
young man was greatly pleased with the interest she manifested in his narrative
--so much so that his spirit glowed within him. And, of course, Kitty
congratulated him on the victory of his horse, Go Nap, and on his other
successes. As he looked at the beautiful girl, a strong desire came upon him to
speak to her at once of his passion, but a certain novel bashfulness, arising
from the very reality of the love he felt for her, restrained him at the moment.
Instead of going to the point at once, he began by asking in the most banal
fashion if she had any news. Now, Kitty had two great pieces of news--one of
them a very great piece of news indeed; one was the coming of her father, the
other her engagement to Gilbert Eversleigh. It was of the first she chose to
speak. "News? Yes," said Kitty, eagerly, "great news. Have you heard that my
father is expected here from Canada next week?--but, perhaps, you have heard of
it." "No, I have not heard of it. Rather sudden, is it not?" asked Bennet. "You
did not know of it, I think, Miss Kitty, when I saw you some days ago." "I had a
letter from my father the very next morning." "He arrives next week, you say? On
what day do you look for him?" "That I can't tell you, for he has not mentioned
any fixed day; but he will be here very soon. And, oh! I shall be glad to see
him!" "Yes. It will be a great pleasure to you to see him again." "It will make
me very happy," said Kitty, simply, who was now counting the days and finding
them somewhat long. While the girl was speaking, Bennet was thinking that it
would be better for him to declare himself before the arrival of her father. Did
he put it off till afterwards, it was probable that Morris Thornton would make
some inquiries about him--in which case his infatuation for betting and horse-
racing would be bound to come out, and Thornton might take a severe view of his
conduct. But the matter would appear in a different light if he were engaged to
Kitty before her father's appearance on the scene. They had been sitting in the
drawing-room of Ivydene quite near each other. Suddenly, to Kitty's surprise,
Bennet rose, and with outstretched hands stood in front of her. He gave her no
time to check him--his words flowed like a torrent. "Miss Kitty, your father
will make you happy; will you not make me happy too? You can make me the
happiest of men. I love you, you darling Kitty! Tell me that you do not regard
me with indifference! Tell me that you will not refuse my love, Kitty! Do not
send me away from your sweet presence. I love you, I adore you for your beauty,
for your sweetness, for yourself. Kitty, do you love me? I will do anything and
everything a man can to show you I love you. Kitty, dearest, tell me----"

Springing a step forward, he tried to clasp her in his arms, but she retreated
and then waved him back. Bennet had spoken well, and with a rough sincerity
which the girl could not but feel. She tried to stop him, but he would not be
stopped. As he had gone on, her face had paled and her eyes had grown full of
trouble and distress. She now blamed herself for not putting her second piece of
news before the other. Trouble and distress also showed themselves in the
agitation with which she replied to him. "Harry, I'm so sorry. What you ask is
impossible!" "Impossible! You don't mean it, Kitty, surely," exclaimed Bennet.
"Oh, say you don't mean it!" He was so cocksure of himself and of her that he
could not believe she was in earnest. His self-confidence was so great that it
blinded him, otherwise he must have seen that she had no such answer to give him
as he wished. "Yes, it is impossible," she said, quietly and firmly. "I am very
sorry to pain you, Harry, very sorry indeed; you may be quite sure of that." The
young man's eyes filled with an angry light while the hot colour flushed his
cheeks. "It is your love I want, not your sorrow," he said roughly. "That I
cannot give you," said Kitty. "Wait a moment, Harry. A few minutes ago you asked
me if I had any news. Well, I did not tell you all the news. There was one piece
of news I felt a certain reticence about. I wish now I had mentioned it to you.
For, if I had done so you would not have said--what you have said. It is that I
am engaged to be married." "Oh, Kitty!" cried Bennet, in a voice that seemed to
ask her how she dared become engaged to any one but himself. "You are engaged!
This is news indeed ... I wish I had known ... engaged!" And Bennet, who was not
able to contain his rage and mortification, glowered at the girl, as these words
came brokenly from him. Then he looked at her for some seconds in silence, and
his look was not pleasant. "I am sorry," said Kitty once more, but her accent
was cold. She thought he was not behaving prettily, and that it was time for him
to go. "May I ask who is the lucky man?" he inquired, his face dark with wrath;
but in his heart he had already guessed that Gilbert Eversleigh was his
successful rival. "I do not know that you have any right to address me as you
are doing," said Kitty with dignity. "You asked a question and you have had your
answer." But as she looked at Bennet she relented a little. "I am sorry to
disappoint you, Harry," she went on, "but there is nothing more to be said." "I
suppose it is Gilbert," said Bennet. Kitty nodded assent. Bennet gazed at her
gloomily; there was something threatening in the black gleams he shot at her.
"Have you no good wishes for me?" she asked, making an effort to remind him that
he should at least try to play the part of a gentleman. But Bennet only glared
at her speechlessly. At length, muttering some words so incoherently that the
girl could not catch them, he turned and left the room abruptly. And he kept
muttering the same words over and over again as he returned to his home; they
made an infernal chorus in his thoughts, the burden of which was, "She shall
never marry you, Master Gilbert, never, never, if I can prevent her. She shall
marry me, me, me, nobody but me." And yet, even while he kept on saying this to
himself, he could not conceal from his innermost soul that he was powerless.
Kitty and Gilbert were engaged; there was the bitter fact. Still, he whispered
in his heart, they were not married, and until Kitty was actually united to
Gilbert there was always room for a little hope. Of Gilbert Eversleigh he
thought with burning hatred, and longed for an opportunity of doing him an
injury. In his first rage he had an idea that he would withdraw all his business
from Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, but after he had somewhat cooled he
came to the conclusion not to do so. The firm, he argued, was far too big and
well-established and wealthy to be hurt much by the loss of a single client like
him. Bennet's opinion of the standing of the firm was the same as that held by
everybody else. Besides, there was another reason for continuing with the
Lincoln's Inn solicitors. He told himself that if he placed his affairs in the
hands of other lawyers, Francis Eversleigh would inevitably be displeased, and
this would lead to a coolness between them which would make it impossible for
him to visit at Ivydene. But while Kitty remained beneath the roof of Francis
Eversleigh, Bennet had no desire to cut himself off from seeing her there. And
he meant to go on seeing her. For, so long as she was unmarried he did not
altogether despair. He said to himself that he would wait and see if chance did
not throw something in his way. As for Kitty, she thought it best to say not a
word to Gilbert of Harry Bennet's proposal, but she took an opportunity of
cautioning her lover to beware of him. To say that Kitty was amazed and dismayed
at the presumptuousness, the boorishness, the bad manners Bennet had exhibited,
would give but a faint indication of what she felt. She considered his
behaviour, with its unconcealed menace, little short of an outrage. Yet, at the
same time, an alarmed instinct in her apprised her that the man was dangerous,
and that vigilance was necessary in dealing with him. Gilbert was rather
inclined gently to laugh down the warning Kitty gave him; in his abounding
happiness he smiled at her fears, but she insisted none the less that Bennet was
a man to be watched. "You must always be on your guard with him," she said.
"What can he do, my darling?" asked Gilbert. "Nothing," he said, with reassuring
caresses. CHAPTER VIII

It was now approaching the end of the week, and still there was no sign of
Morris Thornton, to the intense disappointment of his daughter Kitty, who was
all impatience to see him. As each day in that week of terror to Francis
Eversleigh went past, he sank further and further into a slough of despond, and
became a prey to deep melancholy. The routine of his office work, with its
appeal to long-established habit, and the pressure to keep up appearances so far
as it was possible, helped him a little during the day; but in the evenings,
when his family were around him, and in the long, broken nights, when his wife
lay asleep by his side, he abandoned himself to the deepest dejection. Going to
his office each morning, he speculated drearily, with aching heart, whether this
day or the next would see Morris Thornton walk in, bringing ruin with him. "How
am I to meet him?" Eversleigh asked himself over and over again, but saw no
answer. Silwood had not spoken to him again except on such items of business as
had to be discussed by them together. These consultations would have had
something farcical in them for him if the situation had not been so wholly
tragical. He marvelled at the matter-of-fact way Silwood went about these and
other affairs. Very quietly and methodically Silwood went on maturing his plans,
nor did he refer to them any more when talking to Eversleigh; but he had paid
another visit in disguise to Douglas Street, Stepney, and had warned his wife to
be ready to move when he gave the word. He had also intimated, but more plainly,
to Williamson, that he would take a holiday very soon--his reason, he alleged
for taking it, being the great heat which still continued. Never had there been
known so hot a July. Williamson admitted in his thoughts that the reason was an
excellent one, but wondered why Mr. Eversleigh, who continued to look very ill,
did not talk of taking a vacation instead of his partner, who seemed to be very
much in his usual health. On the Saturday of that week, Cooper Silwood, whose
punctuality had hitherto been invariable, did not appear at the office when
half-past ten came round, and Williamson waited for him in vain for some time. A
little after eleven, however, the head-clerk received a note from him, saying
that he had gone to the Continent, and intended making for the north of Italy,
where he had been some years before. He went on to say he was not certain how
long he would be away, but it would be for two or three weeks, perhaps a month.
Carefully as Silwood had prepared the way, Williamson could not but be surprised
at the suddenness with which, in the end, his principal had departed, and
naturally his suspicions of there being something wrong were increased; but they
remained indefinite and vague, for he could fasten on nothing tangible. In the
course of the morning, Francis Eversleigh, for the purpose of asking Silwood a
question, went into the latter's room, and found it empty. It was evident, too,
from the state in which it was, that Silwood had not been there that day. He at
once leapt to the conclusion that Silwood had gone away--in plain terms, had
absconded--an eventuality for which he was not altogether unprepared, as it had
been part of the scheme Silwood had mooted to him after the confession of the
defalcations, and also on the occasion of their interview at Ivydene. Still,
this might not be the explanation, and Eversleigh, after a few seconds' thought,
put on his hat and walked up to Silwood's private chambers in Stone Buildings.
Here he found the door locked, and a sheet of paper pinned to it, on which was
written, "Out of Town." His conjecture thus confirmed, it was none the less a
terrible shock to Francis Eversleigh; even though he had anticipated it, it was
nevertheless hard to bear. "He has left me to stand it all alone," he thought,
but even as he said this to himself, his common sense reasserted itself. "But
what will his flight benefit him? Ultimately he will be hunted down; he cannot
escape the law; no one can." Then, hardly knowing what he was doing, he tried
the door again, pulling at the handle with all his might, but it was to no
purpose. He stood gazing gloomily at the closed door. "I have a great mind to
have it broken open," he muttered. "I can easily frame some excuse for doing so
--say he has forgotten something. But if I did have the door opened, what would
be the use? What good would it do? It would not bring him back; it would not
bring the money back. No, best leave it alone." Moving with slow, halting steps
down the stairs, he kept asking himself the question, "What am I to do now?" His
agony of mind was almost beyond human endurance as this question incessantly
hammered on his brain, obscuring and dulling his powers. Then, in a muddled sort
of way, he began to reason. First, he might go to the authorities and
incriminate himself; but no one, he told himself, was required to do that; it
was too much to expect any one to do. Second, he might destroy himself, and so
make an end. Was this not the best course to pursue? With this idea in his mind,
he remembered a shop in the Strand, in the window of which he had seen revolvers
for sale. Why not buy one and be done with it all? "Why not?" he asked himself,
and turned his face towards the Strand. But he had only gone a few paces when
the thought of his wife and children was too poignant to allow him to proceed
further with his desperate purpose, and so he faced about and returned to New
Square, thinking, thinking of what he was to do. There was only one thing to do,
he concluded, and that was to continue doing his work at the office as best he
could till the crash came. It could not be long in coming, he reflected with
indescribable bitterness, for was not Morris Thornton already overdue? He had
scarcely got seated in his own room when his son Ernest came in, and remarked
that Mr. Silwood had gone for a holiday. "I had not heard that he intended
going," he went on; "in fact, I was astonished to hear of his taking a holiday
just now. Mr. Williamson tells me he has left for the Continent." "Yes," said
Francis Eversleigh, somewhat vacantly, "he has gone for a holiday. I suppose I
have forgotten to mention to you that he was going abroad for a while," he
continued, pulling himself together. "He has not had a holiday for some years."
"I see. By-the-way," said Ernest, "who in his absence is to look after his
department?" "I'll do so myself," observed the other, quietly. "But, father,"
objected Ernest, "you are not well enough----"

"Oh, yes, I am," protested Eversleigh. "I'll attend to it myself, my boy." "Why
not let me do it?" "I had rather not," answered his father, sharply; "I prefer
to do it myself." Eversleigh knew very well that it would never do to let any
one but himself look after Silwood's department. The day of Silwood's
disappearance wore to its end; the next day, Sunday, passed. It saw the lovers
at Ivydene much engrossed with themselves, but not to such an extent as to
prevent many comments on the delay in Morris Thornton's coming, and some
surmises as to its cause, the chief of which was that he was carrying out his
idea of giving Kitty a "surprise"--carrying it a little further than she had
expected. Though she was disappointed, she was not alarmed. On the Monday of
that week, Francis Eversleigh, looking more haggard and wretched than before,
was again at 176, New Square. "Will Thornton come to-day?" he asked himself,
despairingly. He strove to keep calm and hide his sufferings from the world, but
every moment was torture. Yet Monday went the way of all former Mondays, and
still Morris Thornton did not come. And so it was with Tuesday, and Wednesday,
and Thursday, and Friday, and Saturday; the week was gone, and Thornton had not
appeared! Pondering this fact, Eversleigh, who remembered what Thornton had said
about his ill-health, was inclined to the conclusion that somewhere on the road
his old friend had had an attack, and had broken down. But, if this were the
case, why had he not sent, or caused to be sent, a message to the firm or to his
daughter? Eversleigh knew she had not heard anything further from her father,
nor had the firm heard from Thornton. In one sense, the non-appearance of
Thornton was a relief to Francis Eversleigh--it put the day of judgment off; but
in another, the prolonging of the suspense intensified his mental agony.
Thornton's silence was as terrible as it was really inexplicable. Kitty, who was
not aware of her father's serious condition, and hence could not frame from that
circumstance a possible explanation of his not coming, was greatly perplexed. At
first she felt no fear, and kept saying to herself and to Gilbert--to whom, of
course, she talked of all that was in her heart--that she would see her father
to-morrow or next day; but to-morrow became to-day, and next day to-morrow, and
yet he did not appear. And there was nothing from him--not a single line!
Gilbert, lover-like, did his utmost to cheer her, saying what was obviously
probable--her father had been unexpectedly delayed, but would be here very soon,
and so on--and he spoke with such cheeriness that she gained some confidence
from his. But as the days sped by, and Morris Thornton came not nor sent word,
her apprehensions increased, and all Gilbert's loving speeches could not allay
them. Gilbert, too, began to wonder not a little what it all meant. It at length
became evident to him that there was something peculiarly significant in the
non-appearance and silence of Morris Thornton. He spoke what was in his mind to
his father, who, in reply, told him the only hypothesis he could form was that
Thornton had fallen ill at some point in the course of the journey, though that
did not account for nothing being heard of him. Gilbert now learned for the
first time of the precarious state of Thornton's health. He agreed with his
father that nothing should be said about it to Kitty, as it could not but add to
her anxiety. But what Gilbert had heard made him comply all the more eagerly
with a suggestion Kitty offered on the next Sunday, when they were talking on
this subject, which temporarily had assumed more importance almost than their
love. This was that a cablegram should be sent to Vancouver to Morris Thornton,
asking when she was to expect to see him in London. Gilbert despatched the
cablegram for her from the Central Telegraph Office in the Strand, on his return
to town late that evening. No answer was received by the girl till far on in the
afternoon of Monday. The first thing she noticed on looking at the reply message
was that it was not signed by her father, but by his local agent. Then she read
the whole cablegram, which ran--

"Your father sailed from New York for Southampton by _St. Louis_, July 21. No
further advices. Wallace." "July 21," said Kitty to herself. "Why, he ought to
have been here a week ago at least." For it was now Monday, August 9th! Eighteen
days had elapsed since the sailing of the _St. Louis_ from New York, on July
21st! CHAPTER IX

What was the explanation? Kitty wondered, much perplexed. Her father had left
Vancouver and had gone to New York--so she gathered from the cablegram. And as
he had not been to see her she concluded that he could not be in England, and
that meant in the circumstances that he had not sailed from New York on the 21st
of July as he had intended. Gilbert had suggested to her that her father had
been unexpectedly detained, and at first, as this seemed a probable solution of
the problem, she was inclined to think this was what had occurred. But, as she
reflected further, it did not seem so likely. For supposing he had been forced
to delay his journey for a whole week, and had exchanged his berth on the _St.
Louis_ for one on the boat of the same line sailing a week later, that is, on
the 28th, there would still have been plenty of time for him to have arrived in
England and to have seen her, as he would have reached Southampton by the 3rd of
August, or by the 4th at latest. And it was now the 9th! As Kitty tried to
puzzle the matter out, her fears, vague, but none the less distressing, were
greatly increased, and she began to suspect that something, she knew not what,
had happened to her father. Gilbert, now as anxious as Kitty was, was at
Surbiton in the evening to hear what news she had received from Vancouver, and
he was as much bewildered as she by the cablegram from Wallace, Morris
Thornton's agent. All he could do was to remind her, as he had done before, that
the delay in her father's coming, as well as his silence, might all be part of
his scheme to "surprise" her. But Kitty replied that this made her father out as
unkind in the extreme; she was sure he would never willingly put such a strain
upon her affection. "I can't make it out at all," she said, wrinkling her pretty
brows. "It seems very singular that he does not write." Then an idea struck her.
It was that there might be, on a careful re-reading of the letter she had
received from her father, in which he had said he was returning to England, some
words which would afford a clue. "I shall look at his letter again," she said to
Gilbert, and went up to her room to fetch it. "He writes," remarked the girl,
when she had brought it down, "quite positively 'I will come in a few days after
you receive this.' 'A few days,' he says. If he had sailed on the 21st of July
and came here to-morrow--why, it would be nearly three weeks, and you can't call
that a few days." "No," assented Gilbert; "but, Kitty, it's hardly three weeks.
If he had sailed on the 21st he would have been here about the 28th or the 29th.
You see what's left is more like ten days than three weeks. But what is the date
of your father's letter?" "July 11th." "And when did you get it, dear?" "Oh,
Gilbert, don't you know, don't you remember?" asked Kitty, with some reproach in
her voice. "Surely, you cannot have forgotten that I got it on the very day you
told me that you loved me!" "Ah, sweetheart," quickly replied Gilbert, taking
her hand and pressing it tenderly, "I've been so happy that I have lost all
count of time--I forget everything but you, my darling!" "A pretty speech,"
exclaimed Kitty, smiling upon him while her hand returned the pressure of his,
"and I suppose I must forgive you, Gilbert. But about this letter of father's.
Well, it came just sixteen days ago to-day. Now, sixteen days are not exactly a
few days, are they?" she asked, sticking to her point. "It was on the 24th that
his letter came," said Gilbert. "So you have remembered the date, sir?" cried
Kitty. "I had not really forgotten, dear; but thinking about your father had,
for the moment, put it out of mind." "Oh, yes, I know, Gilbert," she said, a
little absently. He devoured her with eyes of love, but he noticed that her
thoughts were not with him. They had reverted to her father. "I think I see how
it all fits in," she said, after a long pause, "for his sailing on the 21st. He
wrote me on the 11th; that gave him ten days to wind up his business in
Vancouver, so far as he could wind it up, and to get to New York in--five days
in Vancouver, and five days for the journey to New York. If he had sailed on the
21st, as he said to his agent he would, he would have been here on the 28th or
29th, that is, in three or four days after his letter. Now three, four, or even
let us say five days, would be a few days--just as he says in his letter. I can
see he had planned it all out, so as to fit everything in. Don't you see that,
Gilbert?" "It certainly looks like it, dear." "Yes, it does. It is very strange
that he did not carry out his intention. I cannot understand it. There is some
mystery about it I cannot fathom." "It seems singular," observed Gilbert; "but I
dare say that, if we knew all the circumstances, there would be a perfectly
natural explanation, sweetheart. Pray do not give way, my darling," he besought
her, but his own manner was not reassuring. "I cannot help being anxious,"
replied Kitty. Then she looked again at the cablegram from Wallace, and said,
"The agent wires, 'Your father sailed from New York by _St. Louis_ on 21st.'
That is quite definite, is it not? And he adds, 'No further advices.' Does that
mean that father had advised Mr. Wallace that he had sailed? Oh, Gilbert, I am
afraid, I am afraid! We imagine that the agent knew only of father's intention--
an intention, we suppose, he was prevented from carrying out. But think what it
means if we are wrong in imagining this altogether! Suppose that father did sail
on the 21st! Gilbert, I am afraid," said Kitty, in a low tone; "I am afraid,"
she repeated, and the girl's voice suddenly fell into a whisper. She shivered
slightly, and the tears stood in her eyes as she clung to her lover. Gilbert
took her in his arms, soothed and caressed her. In the course of their
conversation he had tried to put the best construction on Morris Thornton's non-
appearance, but at heart he felt, like Kitty, that there was good ground for
misgiving. And to have told the girl what he knew, but she did not know, of the
serious condition of her father, would be only to add to her trouble. As for
himself, that knowledge made him appreciate the gravity of the matter even more
than she did. He resolved, therefore, to set inquiries on foot at once, and
furthermore to set to work vigorously himself to probe the thing to the bottom.
Next morning, accordingly, he went to the office of the American Line in London
--the line of steamships to which the _St. Louis_ belonged--and asked the clerk
who waited on him for a list of the passengers who had sailed from New York by
that vessel, on July 21st. The list was handed to him immediately. A cursory
glance showed him that the name of Morris Thornton was on it. Dumfounded, he
stared at the list, saying nothing. His surprise was so marked that the clerk
could not help noticing it, and was surprised in his turn. "It does not mean,"
said Gilbert at length, "at least, always, I suppose, that because an
individual's name is on the steamer list he must necessarily have sailed, does
it? I mean that he might be detained at the last moment." "That, of course, is
possible," replied the clerk. "The list is printed some little while before the
ship sails. But I can tell you if there was any one on the list who in the end
did not sail, if that is what you wish to know." "That is very kind of you,"
said Gilbert, but he paused, reflecting that a question of this kind was a
somewhat delicate one. And he was aware that the clerk was eyeing him curiously,
almost suspiciously. "Perhaps," said the clerk, "it would be simpler and better
if you told me about whom you desire to ask. Is there any name on the list in
which you are particularly interested?" Gilbert noticed that the clerk was
studying his face with marked intentness, and he wondered why; he understood
later. "I see on the list," said Gilbert at length, "the name of Mr. Morris
Thornton." "Mr. Morris Thornton!" exclaimed the clerk, whose tone was such as
showed there was something out of the common attaching to the name. "Yes, Mr.
Thornton," Gilbert went on. "Can you tell me if he sailed by the _St. Louis_ on
the 21st?" "Are you a friend of Mr. Thornton's?" inquired the clerk, in an eager
voice. "In a sense, yes," replied Gilbert. "But you have not answered my
question." "In a sense," said the clerk, repeating Gilbert's first words; then
he continued, "I have a most special reason for asking if you are a friend of
his. What do you mean, sir, by saying that you are a friend of his in a sense?"
"Well, I am engaged to his daughter. She expected to see her father some days
ago, but he has not arrived. She knew he intended sailing from New York on the
21st, though she only knew of it yesterday. She became alarmed on not seeing him
or hearing from him, and she cabled to his agent in Vancouver, and in that way
learned that her father was to have sailed on the 21st. She asked me to make
inquiries. I shall be glad if you can help me. Can you tell me if Mr. Thornton
sailed on the _St. Louis_ or not?" "Mr. Thornton," answered the clerk, in a
queer, half-frightened voice, "did sail by the _St. Louis_!" "What! Are you sure
of that?" "Absolutely." Gilbert had a staggering sense that he was on the edge
of some extraordinary affair, and he gazed earnestly at the clerk, who looked at
him with corresponding intentness. "Have you anything more to tell me?" asked
Gilbert. "I think it would be better if you spoke to the manager," said the
clerk. "Would you mind coming in to see him?" "Not at all; but why?" "Well, you
are not the only one who has been making inquiries about Mr. Thornton--I may
tell you that; but, please come into the manager's room." Gilbert saw the
manager, and explained his errand. "I am afraid," said the manager, speaking in
an impressive voice, "that something may have happened to Mr. Thornton; indeed,
I have very little doubt of it." "Why?" "Mr. Thornton did sail from New York as
he intended; not only so, he landed at Southampton in due course, and came on to
London on the 29th of last month. On that day he took a room at the Law Courts
Hotel in Holborn. These are the facts." "How do you know he went to the Law
Courts Hotel, may I ask?" "I have it from the hotel people themselves, and why
they told me of it you will presently understand. It appears that Mr. Thornton
was a good deal of an invalid; at any rate, shortly after he got to his hotel he
was taken very seriously ill--he had a violent heart-attack of the most alarming
character. He fell down in the hall of the hotel and became unconscious. He was
immediately conveyed to his bed and a doctor was summoned." "Ah," said Gilbert,
interrupting him, "I knew that he had a weak heart. But, pardon me, pray
continue." "Mr. Thornton was successfully treated by the doctor, and after some
hours recovered, but he remained in bed for the rest of that day and most of the
next." "He got better," said Gilbert, beginning to breathe more freely. "That is
good news." "Oh, but wait," said the manager. "I have not finished yet. He
stopped in bed at his hotel most of the next day, as I have already told you--
that was the 30th, you will remember. He improved so much that he told the
attendant who had been detailed to look after his comfort, that he felt quite
equal to getting up, and though the attendant remonstrated with him he persisted
and did get up. You follow me, Mr. Eversleigh?" "Perfectly," replied Gilbert,
who saw that something very unusual was coming, and was most eager to hear the
end of the story. "Mr. Thornton had dinner at the _table d'hôte_--he was as well
as that, you understand. After dinner he sat for quite a time chatting with two
or three of the other guests, and, rather late in the evening, he announced his
intention of going out for a short stroll; he said the fresh air would do him
good. And he did go out." The manager paused, and looked at Gilbert
significantly. "He went out," he resumed, "but he has never returned." CHAPTER X

"What?" cried Gilbert; he felt as if some one had struck him a sudden blow. "He
has never returned to the hotel," said the manager, very seriously. "Ah! to the
hotel, but where----" Gilbert stopped without completing the question, while
excitement struggled with anxiety within his breast. He gazed imploringly at the
other. "He did not return to the Law Courts Hotel that evening," the manager
went on, "and nothing has been seen or heard of him since." Gilbert smothered an
ejaculation. What a thing, he thought, to have to tell Kitty! "That was the
state of the case up to yesterday," continued the manager. "I have had no
communication on the subject this morning, but if you like, I will ring up the
hotel on the 'phone--there may be fresh news." "Thanks; but one moment, please.
You had what you have just told me from the hotel people?" "Yes, and also from
the police who are now moving in the matter, though I am not aware of their
having found out anything." "The police!" exclaimed Gilbert, almost
protestingly, but even as he spoke he knew it was a fit and proper case for the
police to take up. "Please go on," he said. "Of course," resumed the manager,
"the police had to be called in. Between ourselves I think they should have been
called in sooner than they were, but at the same time it must be acknowledged
that the hotel authorities were in a difficult position; people in their
business are always anxious not to interfere with the freedom of their guests,
so they make allowance for eccentricities and what might be considered rather
erratic movements." "I understand," said Gilbert. "Perhaps you will now tell me
just what action the hotel people took--you can ring them up later." "Very well.
Mr. Thornton went out from the hotel late that Friday night--the 30th of July
was a Friday--and on his way out he spoke to the porter, saying he would go
along Holborn and take a turn, it might be, up and down Chancery Lane, if it was
pretty quiet." "The porter remembered that distinctly, I presume?" "Yes,
perfectly. He did not see Mr. Thornton return, but he thought nothing of this,
imagining that Mr. Thornton had gone back into the hotel when he, the porter,
happened to be away for a minute from the door." "I must see that porter,"
Gilbert broke in. Was he, he wondered, the last man to see Thornton alive? For,
already, a conviction was springing up within him that Thornton was no more, and
that this was the mournful intelligence he would have to carry to Kitty.
"Certainly you must," assented the manager. "Well, next day a chambermaid, on
going into Mr. Thornton's room, found that his bed had not been slept in; she
reported it, but nothing beyond taking a note of the circumstance was done at
the moment by the hotel people. They supposed, naturally enough, that Mr.
Thornton would turn up in the course of the day." "But surely," said Gilbert,
"they should have felt some alarm seeing that they knew how frightfully ill he
had been two days before, don't you think?" "You must bear in mind, in fairness
to them, that they do not care to appear to limit in any way the liberty of
their guests--and also, Mr. Eversleigh, that they never suspected anything was
wrong; it is easy to be wise after the event." "Yes, yes," Gilbert agreed, but
he spoke with some impatience. "At first," the manager went on, "they were under
no apprehension as to his safety, but when he did not return that day at all,
nor the next, they began to think it a little strange; they thought it very
singular, too, that they did not hear from him. They waited, however, till the
Tuesday, and then they communicated with the police, and the affair is now in
the latter's hands. A detective-inspector came to see if I could throw any light
on the mystery. Of course, I was greatly interested, as you may imagine, but I
could tell him nothing. I went round to the hotel in Holborn, and there learned
what I have told you. I am afraid there is nothing more known at present." "But
have the police discovered no trace of him?" "I don't think they have. I believe
they are completely baffled--at their wits' end. They have no clue, none at all,
so far as I can hear. No; the fact is that Mr. Thornton has vanished, you might
say, from off the face of the earth. It is as if he had never been!" "What a
terrible thing!" said Gilbert, in a voice of gloom. "Is there really nothing
more?" "I fear there is absolutely nothing more." "Have you made any guess as to
what has happened?" asked Gilbert. "No. You will see the police, Mr.
Eversleigh?" "At once. But perhaps you will ring up the Law Courts Hotel;
there's just a chance they may have something fresh." The manager immediately
telephoned, and was told there were no further developments to be reported; Mr.
Thornton was still missing, and nothing had been heard of him. Gilbert thanked
the manager for the information he had given, and with a heavy heart went off to
Scotland Yard. He thought of the loving girl who had looked forward with such
keen pleasure to the coming of her father, and who was now so anxious about him.
How was he to tell her what he had heard? And he feared that the worst had
happened to Morris Thornton; he felt his conviction growing that the man was
dead. Still, he must not say so to Kitty, so long as there was any uncertainty.
Gilbert was seen at the "Yard" by Detective-inspector Gale, an officer of great
experience, and a man of considerable ability. In introducing himself Gilbert
mentioned that he was the son of Francis Eversleigh, of the firm of Eversleigh,
Silwood, and Eversleigh, thinking that they must be known to Gale, who bowed
respectfully as he listened. Coming to the matter of the disappearance of Morris
Thornton, he also said that the firm were the solicitors of the missing man.
Then he explained how it was he himself came into the case. "Mr. Thornton has a
daughter here?" said Gale, making notes. "I did not know that. Indeed, I know
very little about Mr. Thornton. I shall be glad if you will tell me all you know
of him." And Gilbert did so. The detective-inspector asked several questions
about the letter Thornton had addressed to his daughter, and dwelt upon the
sentence in it which spoke of Thornton's intention to "surprise" Kitty. "I
should like to see that letter," he said. "Certainly. You think it important?"
"It may be--one can never tell," said the officer, diplomatically, "but the word
'surprise'--the idea--seems to suggest a certain whimsicalness on the part of
Mr. Thornton." "It was merely his humour, I imagine," remarked Gilbert; "but I
can't for an instant suppose that Mr. Thornton carried his whimsicalness, as you
term it, or his humour to such a prodigious degree as to disappear from his
hotel in the way he did." Gale nodded. Then he shut his note-book. "You would
think so, Mr. Eversleigh," he observed, referring to Gilbert's last sentences;
"but you would be surprised how often men disappear intentionally." "One hears
of such things, but not frequently." "These disappearances are much more common
than the public have any notion of, I can assure you. I am speaking now of what
I have called intentional disappearances, and I don't mean what you might term
criminal disappearances either. Men make up their minds to cut away completely
from their surroundings, to begin a new life, to turn over a fresh leaf, and so
on; do you see?" "Yes; but there could be nothing of the kind in the case of Mr.
Thornton." "I do not say there was," said Gale, but his voice was non-committal.
"May I ask if you have formed any theory regarding Mr. Thornton's
disappearance?" "I have not; the facts are too few." "Have you any hope?" "Do
you mean hope of finding where he is gone or what has become of him?" "Yes. And
do you think he is alive? I have a haunting dread that he is dead." "Dead?
Perhaps so; I cannot say, but I think it is too soon to come to that conclusion.
Hundreds, yes thousands of people, disappear in London every year, and many of
them are never heard of again. But you cannot say that of the majority. I would
not be surprised to discover that Mr. Thornton is alive, and I would be as
little surprised to find out that he is dead." "It has occurred to me," said
Gilbert, who felt that the officer took up a safe but scarcely a sympathetic
position, "that it is possible Mr. Thornton had another sudden heart-attack, and
was taken into a house near at hand by some kind person----"

"But suppose he had an attack and had been taken in as you suggest," interrupted
Gale; "surely it is impossible to suppose that such a circumstance would not be
reported somewhere? Mr. Thornton would have sent word to the hotel sooner or
later, don't you think?" "Yes; that is reasonable." "I had thought of that idea
myself, but, on consideration I dismissed it as quite untenable. Mr. Thornton, I
have come to the conclusion, has either disappeared intentionally, or he is
dead. Now I can see nothing to indicate an intentional disappearance: the state
of his health would seem absolutely to forbid it." "Then you think he is dead?"
asked Gilbert, as Gale paused. "I can't say, please remember, but it looks
rather like it." "But what about the body?" "Oh, bodies can be made to
disappear." "Do you mean that you think he has been murdered?" "I won't go so
far," said Gale, cautiously, "but Mr. Thornton was a rich man, and probably had
valuables about him; he was in a weak, feeble state, and so would fall an easy
victim. And it was late in the evening when he went out. I am afraid it is
possible--I will not say probable, for there is no evidence--that he was
murdered the night he left the hotel." "Is it not dreadful? I've been thinking
much the same. But how did you know he was rich?" "We took possession of what
property he had at the hotel. It was not much, but what there was hinted pretty
plainly at wealth. There was one extraordinary thing--we could not find his
address, I mean the address of the place he lived in." "That was odd, and I
cannot explain it," said Gilbert. "You know now he lived in Vancouver?" "Yes,
you have told me so, but I did not know it before. We made inquiries by cable in
New York--the label on his luggage showed he had come from that city--but he was
unknown to the police there, nor could they find out anything about him. Now we
shall make inquiries in Vancouver." "I hope you will let me know if you hear of
anything," said Gilbert, rising to leave, after thanking the inspector for his
courtesy. "Miss Thornton is very anxious about her father, and she will be more
anxious than ever after she has heard what I have to tell her." "Certainly."
Gilbert was just about leaving, when it struck him as very desirable that the
officer should communicate with his father, Francis Eversleigh. He had already
told Mr. Gale that his father's firm were Morris Thornton's solicitors, and now
he suggested to the inspector-detective to accompany him, if he had the time, to
see his father, and tell him exactly how the case stood. Gale thought for a
moment, and then said that if he would wait for a short while until he had
finished a memorandum he had been engaged on when Gilbert had been shown in, he
would go with him to his father. "I really ought to see him in the
circumstances," said Gale. "He may be able to give us some clue." But when Gale
and Gilbert put the facts before Francis Eversleigh, he had no suggestion to
make. Indeed, the solicitor was perfectly thunderstruck by the intelligence they
brought him, and acted in such an extraordinary way as to cause Gilbert to fear
that the news had affected his brain. Eversleigh, in fact, could hardly believe
it; but when he did, it, too, seemed part and parcel of that hideous waking
nightmare in which he now lived. Yet, somewhere in the darkening depths of his
mind, there shot up a tiny ray of hope. For if Morris Thornton were dead, or if
it were only that he had disappeared, was not that to postpone the day of
reckoning? Gilbert's most difficult and painful task was to disclose to the girl
he loved all he had come to know that day. With infinite gentleness and delicacy
he told her the truth, and wound up by declaring she must not lose hope of
seeing her father again; it was far too soon, he urged, and the circumstances
were far too obscure to admit of any definite conclusion being arrived at. But
Kitty, crying and sobbing bitterly in her lover's arms, would say nothing.
Gilbert knew, however, from her passion of weeping, that she already mourned her
father as dead. Very tenderly he sought to console her, but at first her grief
would have its way, albeit she clung to him as if she would never let him go.
CHAPTER XI

Whether to keep a matter to themselves, or to take the public into their
confidence, is a question to which the police never seem able to give a decided
answer. There are occasions, of course, in which secrecy is plainly indicated,
but with respect to the majority of cases they are too much inclined to the same
course of procedure. Touching the disappearance of Morris Thornton they had
hitherto deliberately kept any statement about it from the newspapers, and the
facts were known only to a few. And Detective-inspector Gale was of opinion that
it was better to go on with his inquiries as quietly as possible. But Gilbert
Eversleigh could not agree with him. "I am for giving his disappearance the
widest publicity," said Gilbert, in conversation with the officer, on the day
subsequent to that on which he first saw him. "It is probable that we will hear
something in this way. You must confess that up to the present you have
accomplished nothing, Mr. Gale. Is it not so?" "Yes, that is quite true; but I
have not given up the hope of doing something soon." "That's all very well, but
you must pardon me if I tell you I am not satisfied. I have consulted Miss
Thornton, and she is with me in thinking that the occurrence should be made
public." "That is Miss Thornton's wish?" "Yes; and she also desires my father's
firm to offer a large reward to any one who can furnish the information we want.
Still, they will hardly like to act in that way if you have any substantial
objection to offer." Gale reflected for a few moments. "You are sure that Miss
Thornton will not mind?" he asked, the question showing the direction of his
thoughts. "It will not be exactly pleasant for her to see her father's name in
the papers." "She is suffering intensely as it is," replied Gilbert, "but the
affair is too serious for her to give way to personal feelings of that sort;
indeed, if the papers give great prominence to it, she will be pleased rather
than the reverse, for she thinks, and so do I, that something may come of it."
"What reward does she think of offering?" "A thousand pounds." "A large sum! It
might tempt some one." "Tempt some one?" repeated Gilbert. "What do you mean?"
"Well," returned the officer, speaking slowly and thoughtfully, "let us consider
the case. You know that I think Mr. Thornton either disappeared
intentionally----"

"I thought you had rather given that idea up," interposed Gilbert. "Still, it's
a possibility, though there is a good argument on the surface--on the surface,
mind, I say--against it in the state of his health. A man in his precarious
condition was not likely to embark on such an adventure as an intentional
disappearance implies. Still, as I said, it is a possibility. Now, if his
disappearance was intentional, he must be living somewhere, and must be in
contact with other human beings. That is so, is it not?" "Yes." "While offering
the large reward you mentioned, you would at the same time give a full
description of him. That description might be seen by one or more of those with
whom he associates. In this manner information might be obtained. There is
another point, too, and it is that if after a time no such information was
forthcoming, then the other hypothesis will be vastly strengthened." "By the
other hypothesis you intend the idea that he was murdered, I suppose?" asked
Gilbert. "Yes. As I have already told you, I fear that will turn out to be the
true reading of the mystery. The more I think of it, the more certain I feel
about it. There is, however, a third hypothesis, but it seems so highly
improbable that it is hardly worth mentioning. It is that Mr. Thornton committed
suicide." "Suicide! Impossible!" "It is very highly improbable," said Gale,
"but, pardon me, not impossible. I wonder how many things are really
impossible?" he continued, on what was a favourite theme of his. "If you knew
but a tithe of the things ordinarily called impossible that I have found not to
be impossible at all! But I digress. Well, with regard to his having committed
suicide, it was no great distance from his hotel to the river." "Oh, Mr. Gale,
this is absurd. Why should he commit suicide?" "The only reason that can give
the slightest colour to such a supposition is that he suffered terribly from his
heart--the pain in these attacks is usually frightful--and he might have felt
that rather than stand another he would prefer to die; or again, it might be
that he was slightly out of his mind because of the pain. But I don't really put
this hypothesis forward as one that is probable. No. I am afraid he was
murdered. Still, even in that case, the large sum you offer might tempt some one
--some one who perhaps saw the deed done, or had his suspicions about something
he saw--to come forward with useful information." "It might even tempt an
accomplice--that is, if there were an accomplice, might it not?" asked Gilbert
eagerly. "It might, though it's not at all likely." "But you withdraw your
opposition to making public the disappearance of Mr. Thornton?" "Yes, though I
do not advise it. I hope it will not annoy Miss Thornton very much, but I fear
she may be troubled with newspaper reporters." "Cannot you refer them to me or
to my father?" "I shall do so, but if they can ferret her out they will, you may
be sure." "Oh, I dare say I shall be able to baffle them," declared Gilbert.
"Now, will you assist me in drawing up a statement for publication?" Before
Gilbert left Scotland Yard a brief but succinct account of the disappearance of
Morris Thornton was put into writing. Then followed a description of Thornton,
taken from the detective-inspector's note-book, who, in his turn, had got the
particulars from certain members of the staff of the Law Courts Hotel. Further,
Mr. Gale drafted what he thought should go into the advertisement, offering the
reward of a thousand pounds, and this Gilbert took to his father. On his way to
Lincoln's Inn he stopped at a typewriting establishment, and gave instructions
to have copies made of the account of the disappearance, and to send one to each
of the London papers. "This will be enough," thought he, "to set the ball
rolling." Next he saw Francis Eversleigh, who, he found to his surprise, was
against inserting the advertisement. The older man, who had his own bitter,
gnawing, consuming anxieties of which the younger guessed nothing, had a
glimmering notion that to advertise the reward was somehow likely to precipitate
a crisis in his affairs and bring about exposure. But, backboneless as usual, he
was easily over-ruled by his son. The advertisement was made out, typewritten,
manifolded, and also sent to all the London journals. The day following, Gilbert
had ample proof that he had set the ball rolling with a vengeance. Pressmen, it
seemed to him, descended upon him from every quarter of the town, eager,
clamorous, importunate, determined not to be sent empty away. But, after all,
Gilbert had not much to tell them. They managed, notwithstanding, to write
sensational and, for the most part, highly over-coloured articles round the
missing man. One or two of the evening papers wrote leaders on the subject, and
in many ways the public interest in Thornton's disappearance was excited to the
highest pitch. For one thing, his wealth was exaggerated to such an extent that
he was represented as a sort of colonial Croesus, and in London, and throughout
the country, people talked of and speculated about the man now everywhere
described as "The Missing Millionaire." Indeed, the reward of a thousand pounds
was hardly needed to stimulate public curiosity and sympathy and activity. High
and low, rich and poor, the man of Mayfair and the man of Whitechapel, conversed
about it with the same relish, the same wonder. The man in the street, shopmen,
clerks, labourers, even beggars and outcasts, all heard of the mysterious
disappearance of Thornton, and were all anxious to know the explanation of so
extraordinary a thing. In brief, it was the one topic of the moment. And the
offer of the large reward was not without a certain effect. It had become a
matter of general knowledge that Morris Thornton, on leaving the Law Courts
Hotel, told the porter there that he was going for a stroll along Holborn and
probably up and down Chancery Lane. From this it fell out that many people of
the amateur detective variety investigated this quarter, especially at night,
but without being much or any the wiser. Yet, indirectly, one of them did better
than he knew, for from him a certain human wreck, to whom a doorway in Chancery
Lane was a frequent refuge, learned of the disappearance of Morris Thornton.
Inquiring with great earnestness what was the date of Thornton's disappearance,
he was informed that it was Friday, July 30th. It was now Friday, August 13th.
"That is exactly a fortnight ago," said the wreck, with an unmistakable note of
exultation in his voice. "The very night--the very night," he muttered, but so
indistinctly that the other could not catch the words. "What is it you say?" he
asked, but the wreck declined to satisfy his curiosity. "Oh, nothing--nothing at
all," he replied. "Did you happen to be here in this street that night?"
inquired the other, suspiciously. "Yes, I was." "And did you see any thing or
any one?" "I saw nothing--I saw nobody," said the wreck, promptly. But next
morning he had a different story to tell. He had very good reasons for not going
to Scotland Yard, so he betook himself to the office of Eversleigh, Silwood, and
Eversleigh, whose name appeared at the foot of the advertisement offering the
thousand pounds reward. He told his tale to Francis Eversleigh, with whom at
that time was Gilbert. The latter had been hurriedly sent for by his father on a
matter of the most urgent importance. They were anxiously discussing it, when
Williamson had come in and announced that there was a man below who had called
in answer to the advertisement respecting Thornton's disappearance. "He says he
has information, but he would not disclose it to me," remarked Williamson, in an
injured tone. The head-clerk felt hurt that morning. He knew that Francis
Eversleigh had received a letter from Italy, and he suspected it had something
to do with Mr. Cooper Silwood. He had even ventured to put an indirect question
about it to Francis Eversleigh, but with no success. Instead, that gentleman had
told him to go and fetch Gilbert at once from the Temple, or if he was not there
to hunt him up and bring him. He now saw from Gilbert's face, as well as from
Francis Eversleigh's, that something very grave was being discussed. On the
table lay two papers, one of which was partly printed, while the other was a
long, closely-written letter. Before withdrawing, Williamson tried to see what
was on the former, but could not. "I suppose we must have this man in," said
Gilbert to his father. "Yes, yes," assented Francis. He said it with the air of
one to whom nothing could ever much matter again. "I cannot bear it--I cannot
bear it!" he exclaimed suddenly, after Williamson had left the room. "It is too
much!" "Bear up, father--bear up!" cried Gilbert, little understanding all that
was in his father's mind. But the wreck was at the door. Ragged, tattered, with
patched boots and a greasy cap, with pinched features and a general appearance
of having gone irremediably to the bad, the wreck yet bore himself well, and
when he spoke his language and accent were those of a gentleman. He looked at
the two Eversleighs, and addressing the older asked if he were Mr. Eversleigh.
Francis Eversleigh bowed to the wreck, who had once been a gentleman. "I am
Francis Eversleigh," he said; "this is my son Gilbert. You have something to
tell us?" he suggested. "Yes; but first I wish to say that my information by
itself may not be of much use. Still, I think it may put you on the track. If
that is the case, I wish you to promise me that I shall have some share of the
reward." "That will be only fair." "Mr. Thornton," said the wreck, without
further preface, "disappeared on the night of Friday, July 30th. He went out for
a stroll in Holborn, and was to go into Chancery Lane. I was in Chancery Lane
that night, and I saw something that struck me as very curious." The wreck
paused impressively. "What was it you saw?" asked Gilbert. "I saw a man,"
responded the wreck--"some sort of workman he appeared to be from his dress--
come out of the iron gate, the small iron gate at the north-east corner of this
Inn--Lincoln's Inn." "But it's always kept locked at night," objected Francis
Eversleigh. "It was unlocked that night, at any rate," observed the wreck. "I
heard the sound--it was a low sound, but the night was very still--of the
unlocking. I saw the man lock the gate again, and he looked round him like a man
afraid of being spied upon. He did not see me, for I was in the shadow of a
doorway. He seemed to me to be rather flurried. Presently he walked rapidly
away. I thought it very strange that a workman should have the key of the gate
and at such an hour. I wondered what it could mean, but I might have forgotten
all about it if the same man had not returned. He had not been gone for more
than half an hour when back he came, unlocked the gate, and passed on within. I
spent the night in the doorway, but he did not appear again. Very remarkable,
was it not?" asked the wreck. "Very remarkable indeed!" said Gilbert, drily.
"Don't you believe me?" inquired the wreck. "I do not see the bearing of what
you have told us on the disappearance of Mr. Thornton. Of course, what you saw
was very strange, and should be communicated to the authorities of the Inn, but
I can see no connection between the man who came out of the gate and Mr.
Thornton. Do you think there was?" "I told you at the beginning that what I had
to communicate might not be of much use. I thought, however, it might perhaps
fit in with something you knew, or that it might give you a hint," said the
wreck, in a tone of dejection. "We shall not forget what you have told us," said
Gilbert, as the wreck prepared to leave the room. "You should report what you
saw to the authorities of Lincoln's Inn, who will, no doubt, reward you for your
trouble." Gilbert followed him to the door, and put some silver into his hand as
he went out. Then Gilbert closed the door, and sat down beside his father. "It
looks," said he, "as if there were some uncommonly queer goings-on in this old
Inn." But his father scarcely noticed what he said. Francis Eversleigh's gaze
was fastened on the paper lying before him on his table--the paper which was
partly printed, partly written on. It was an official certificate from the
Syndic of Camajore in Italy, duly signed and sealed, of the death of Cooper
Silwood. CHAPTER XII

The certificate of Cooper Silwood's death and the accompanying letter had come
that morning in a long, queer-looking envelope, plastered half-over with stamps
and pitted with postmarks, amongst them being that which showed the packet had
been registered. It was addressed to Francis Eversleigh personally: hence it had
not been touched by any one prior to his coming to the office. When he first saw
the packet he thought there was something ominous about it, and a sure
prescience that it contained bad news deterred him from opening it immediately;
he therefore allowed it to lie on his table for some time. Such a want of
courage had now become characteristic of the tortured man. At last, however, he
screwed himself up to the point of looking into it. As it happened, he took out
and glanced at the letter first; it was in a language he did not know, but he
guessed it was Italian. It was written in a minute, cramped hand, difficult, in
any case, to decipher, and he put it aside. Then he scanned the certificate.
Here the printed words and his Latin helped him, and he had little trouble in
understanding what it was. But in his shattered state it did not come home fully
to him at once. When it did, the effect on him was terrible--his head swam
distressingly, his heart fluttered painfully, as he fell back gasping in his
chair. Cooper Silwood dead! It seemed impossible to him, as his brain, caught in
strange tangles, like water-weeds in an eddy, whirled this way and that. Dead!
The thing at last impressed itself upon his consciousness so as to blot out
everything else for the time. "What next? What next?" he cried aloud, in a voice
that was hardly recognizable as his; it was the protest of a man goaded beyond
the limit of endurance. Then his brain clouded. "Cooper Silwood dead--dead--dead
--dead!" he babbled to himself, looking at the spots in the wall opposite him,
and noting mechanically the shapes and sizes of them. "Dead--dead--dead!" he
mumbled, till the words lost all meaning. Something sub-conscious whispered to
him this was madness, and with a mighty effort he sought to recover himself. The
effort saved him. The first force of the shock at length passed; its recoil
passed off too, and he came to something like his senses. Desiring instinctively
to lean on some one stronger than himself, his impulse was to send for his son
Gilbert immediately, and accordingly, when he had pulled himself still further
round, he summoned Williamson, and dispatched him to find and bring the young
man to Lincoln's Inn. He had hardly done so, when his vacillating mind swung
round again, and he regretted it. But by the time Gilbert arrived his mood had
changed once more. When Gilbert appeared in his father's room he found Francis
Eversleigh in tears. They were the tears of weakness, of indecision, of self-
pity; but when Gilbert heard what his father had to tell him he thought, of
course, they were the tears of one who mourns. They could not but seem natural
in the circumstances. He had always disliked Silwood; but his father and Silwood
had been associated in business for many years, and though he was rather
surprised that his father should be in tears over Silwood's death, he was not at
a loss altogether to account for it: his father, he thought, had a good heart,
and was overcome with sorrow. He supposed that a long acquaintance with Silwood
had shown his father some excellent qualities in the man now dead--qualities
which he himself could not see. "His death will be a great loss to you, father,"
said Gilbert; "you must--and will--feel it very much, I fear." "Yes," said
Francis Eversleigh, in a harsh, strained voice, staring straight before him.
"Have you told Ernest about it, or Mr. Williamson?" asked Gilbert. "Not yet;
but, of course, they must be told. First of all, however, I should prefer to
learn something of the circumstances attending Mr. Silwood's death. I must have
this letter translated," said Francis Eversleigh, pointing to the communication
in the small, cramped handwriting; "I think it will tell us exactly what has
happened." "I can get you a man," said Gilbert, "from a College of Languages
near here, if you like. Shall I go and bring him? Or shall I take the letter
with me and get it translated?" "Bring him here," said Eversleigh, who wished to
keep everything connected in any way with Silwood as much in the office as
possible. "The other way would be the quicker, perhaps," Gilbert suggested.
"Perhaps; but I had rather he came here," rejoined Eversleigh, with some
firmness. In about half an hour Gilbert was back again in his father's room with
an interpreter, who quickly made himself master of the contents of the letter,
and afterwards read it out aloud to the two Eversleighs. It was from Ugo Ucelli,
Syndic of Camajore, which place, the interpreter explained, was in the north of
Tuscany, a few miles from the coast, and no great distance from Leghorn, but the
nearest town of importance was Lucca. The Syndic stated that he had been given
instructions by Mr. Silwood to communicate with Mr. Francis Eversleigh should
the illness from which he, Mr. Silwood, was suffering at the time have a fatal
termination, as appeared to be likely. And the illness had, unfortunately,
resulted in the death of Mr. Silwood, as had been feared. Mr. Silwood had said
he was a partner of Mr. Eversleigh's. He, the Syndic, now hastened to write in
accordance with the command of the deceased gentleman; he regretted that he had
to give Mr. Eversleigh the pain of hearing the sad news, but he had a sacred
duty to the dead to perform, and he must discharge it. Mr. Eversleigh had
probably seen from the newspapers, said the Syndic, that cholera was that summer
--one of the hottest on record--epidemic all along the Gulf of Genoa and
southward as far as Leghorn. Mr. Silwood had fallen a victim to this plague--
alas! its victims were numbered by hundreds and thousands; it was the greatest
calamity that had visited Italy for many years! In Mr. Silwood's case there had
been little hope from the commencement of his sickness, to which he succumbed
after about twenty-four hours. Everything had been done for him that could be
done; he had been attended by a doctor of skill and experience, nor had the
tendance of competent nurses been wanting. Ah! It was evidently the will of God!
The usual certificate of death was enclosed. Owing to the requirements of the
law, concluded the Syndic, the body was buried early on the morning of the day
following that on which the death took place. The deceased had left some effects
about which he had not given directions. These were now in his, the Syndic's
possession, and he asked what was to be done with them. As Mr. Eversleigh would
doubtless know what was proper in the circumstances, he, the Syndic, would be
glad to hear from him at his earliest convenience. Such was the letter of Ugo
Ucelli, Syndic of Camajore. The interpreter was asked to write out a translation
both of the letter and of the death certificate; this he did, received his fee,
and withdrew. Death is perhaps the only thing which commands universal respect:
all render involuntary homage to the King of Terror. It was this that caused
Gilbert, who had no love for Silwood, yet to say with sincerity when the
interpreter had gone, "Poor fellow! Poor fellow!" and then he was silent.
Francis Eversleigh had listened in a sort of heavy stupor to the reading of the
Syndic's letter. The feeling which emerged most prominently from out of the
chaos of his thoughts was one of envy; he envied Silwood, inasmuch as he was
finally beyond the reach of the law--he had gone where its long arm could not go
--he was safe! Eversleigh then tried to think what was his position now Silwood
was dead, and Morris Thornton was dead, most probably, also; but the man's brain
was tired and sick and torpid from the frightful blows it had already been
called upon to sustain. With a deep sigh, he confessed his impotence to himself,
and abandoned the attempt. "We must tell the others at once," he said, feeling
it was easier to do something than to think, "and have an announcement of the
death drawn up. We must take the usual steps." "Yes, yes," said Gilbert, "we
must do so." But Gilbert also had been thinking during the few minutes in which
he had been silent. "What a strange place," he observed, "for Mr. Silwood to
have been at! Perhaps, though, he was just passing through. Still, at this time
of the year, it was an odd place to choose for a holiday. He must have known,
too, about the cholera, surely. I never heard of Camajore! Did you?" "I believe
Mr. Silwood spent a holiday a few years ago in the north of Italy, probably at
this very place, or somewhere in its neighbourhood, but I do not remember
exactly," rejoined the other, dully. Francis Eversleigh sat in his chair, inert,
without initiative; he seemed to be incapable of action. It was Gilbert who took
the lead. "I suppose it is pretty certain that Mr. Silwood has left a will,"
remarked Gilbert. "Of course letters of administration will have to be taken
out, and his estate looked after generally. You will do that, I presume?" "Oh,
about his will. I don't believe," returned Eversleigh, "that his will is in the
office--indeed, I am not aware there is a will at all." He had very good reasons
for imagining there would be no will, for had not Silwood told him that he had
no money? "Mr. Silwood must have left a will, father," said Gilbert,
confidently; "a man of his business habits would be certain to make a will. If
it's not in the office here, then I should think it will be in his chambers in
Stone Buildings." "Perhaps so." "Well, that's what I should say. In any case,
father, you will have to go across to his chambers, see what there is in them,
and have everything taken care of. I wonder who is his heir, or if he has one?
He never seemed to have any relations or friends--but then I did not know him
very well." "Relations, so far as I know, he had none," replied Francis
Eversleigh; "and I scarcely think he had many friends. He always lived a very
lonely life." "He was so engrossed in his business!" "Yes, yes--quite so. As
regards his chambers, I know he left them locked up." "Still, don't you think
you ought to examine them, considering present circumstances? If you like, I
will go over there with you now." Eversleigh shrank from the thing. However, he
looked at his strong handsome son, and thought that if he must go to Stone
Buildings--and he knew that he had better go as soon as possible--it was with
Gilbert that he would choose to go. "I think, first," he said, "it will be as
well to tell Ernest and Mr. Williamson what has occurred; afterwards you and I
will proceed to Mr. Silwood's chambers and examine them." Ernest Eversleigh and
Williamson, therefore, were sent for. Eversleigh announced to them that Silwood
was dead, and asked Gilbert to read to them the translation of the Syndic's
letter. Both were profoundly surprised; Ernest, who appeared genuinely
concerned, expressed his regret at the news, while Williamson, who was
astonished beyond measure, looked utterly aghast, and as if he thought the end
of the world was about to come. "We--Gilbert and I--are going over to Mr.
Silwood's rooms in Stone Buildings," said Francis Eversleigh. "I must consider
what is necessary to do in the circumstances, but I can say nothing at present."
"Perhaps Mr. Williamson can tell us," said Gilbert, as his father stopped, "if
there is a will?" "No, Mr. Gilbert, I do not know of one," replied the head-
clerk. "Mr. Silwood never mentioned the subject to me." "I think that is all,"
said Francis Eversleigh, after a moment's pause, and Ernest and Williamson
withdrew. "Well, Gilbert, I suppose we had better go at once and get it over,"
observed Eversleigh to his elder son. "We will call one of the porters, and get
him to go with us to open the door." On their way they met a porter of the Inn,
and told him of Silwood's death, and that they wished to gain admittance to the
chambers in Stone Buildings. "Sorry to hear about Mr. Silwood," said the man;
"must ha' been very sudden, surely. Dear me, dear me! But about opening the door
o' his rooms, I'm none so certain that I can do it. Mr. Silwood had a lock and
key of his own--a special Yale, which he'd had fitted on himself. However, I'll
try." But the lock of the door, on which still was pinned the piece of paper
with "Out of Town" written upon it, resisted all his efforts. He tried on it
every key in his bunch, but without effect. "This is a job for a locksmith,
that's what it is," said he at last. "Shall I go and fetch one? I can bring a
man here in a few seconds who has the proper tools, and he'll soon do the
business." "Yes, please get a locksmith at once," said Francis Eversleigh. In
about five minutes the porter returned with a locksmith, who set to work and
forced the lock, but not without a considerable expenditure of time and labour.
As the door was opened, a foetid, noisome odour rushed out and filled the
landing. The locksmith involuntarily stepped back. "Whiff, whiff, what's that?"
cried he, while the others exclaimed about the horrible smell. It was the
locksmith who entered the room first, a few feet in advance of the others.
Instantly he uttered a loud shout of terrified surprise. The others now pressed
in after him, Francis Eversleigh the last. There lay the body of a man, face
downwards, on the floor. Eversleigh, with a countenance as white as chalk,
looked from the body to his son, and back to the body again. Gilbert was as
white as his father. The other men looked mutely at the figure lying on the
floor; it seemed to fascinate them. No one spoke a word. A great question shaped
itself in the stillness of that room, but none of them was eager, for the
moment, to find the answer. Who was the man--the man who lay dead? Other
questions came into their minds, but this was first. "We must see the man's
face," said Gilbert, and his voice broke the spell which seemed to hold them
powerless. The porter and the locksmith turned the body over. Though the
features had partially become decomposed, the face was still recognisable on
close inspection. "It's a stranger, I think, leastways in the Inn," said the
porter. Eversleigh gazed at the dead face, peering into it. Suddenly he trembled
as with ague, while he vainly struggled to speak. Gilbert, too, had been closely
scrutinizing the dead face, and he thought that he recognized it. Looking at his
father and seeing his evident emotion, he felt certain. "It is Morris Thornton!"
said he, in a hoarse unnatural voice. "Morris Thornton!" echoed Francis
Eversleigh, and fell in a heap across the body of his old friend. CHAPTER XIII

"Morris Thornton!" Both the porter and the locksmith had heard the name
distinctly before Eversleigh swooned away, and both understood who the dead man
was. They were so astounded that they stood looking at each other with startled
faces and mouths agape, while Gilbert bent over the unconscious form of his
father. "Morris Thornton at last!" cried the porter; "it's the gentleman as was
missing." "Morris Thornton--yes," said the locksmith; "the missing millionaire--
the man wot was advertised for in all the papers." And then both men were
silent, thinking of the reward of a thousand pounds offered for information
about this very man. "I was the first as found him," remarked the locksmith,
coming to his wits, to the porter. "We all found him together, didn't we?" asked
the porter, in an aggrieved tone. Gilbert, meanwhile, had moved his father from
off the dead body of Morris Thornton on to the floor, and sought to bring him to
by unfastening his collar and tie and opening his shirt. The son felt that his
first concern was with his father, not with Morris Thornton--with the living
rather than the dead. And now, as he tried to bring back to the inanimate frame
the spark of life, he noticed, as he had not done before, how changed, how
shrunken were the face and figure of his father. He knew his father had been
ailing for some time, but he had not realised how far the mischief had gone. And
on the top of this illness had come, first the death of Silwood, and now the
discovery of Morris Thornton lying dead in Silwood's chambers! Small wonder was
it, he thought, that the shock of this last circumstance, combined with all that
had preceded it, had proved too much for his father. For some minutes he
continued his efforts to re-animate Francis Eversleigh, but without avail. The
porter and the locksmith gave him what assistance they could; finally the former
suggested that a doctor should be sent for. "Yes," agreed Gilbert; "go round to
King's College Hospital. I know one or two of the doctors there; take my card,
and get one of them if you can. Say the case is urgent." But the porter, who by
this time was swelling with the importance of the affair--an importance in which
he saw himself included--had another suggestion to make. "After I get a doctor,"
he said to Gilbert, whom he knew to be Francis Eversleigh's son, "don't you
think it would be well if I fetched a policeman? There's the dead body," he
added significantly, "and of course there will have to be an inquest." "Quite
right," replied Gilbert; "but get the doctor first." And the porter withdrew,
more important than ever. "Shall I stay, sir?" asked the locksmith. "Yes,
please, until the police come; they will want your evidence." "Very well, sir."
While he was trying to resuscitate his father, Gilbert's mind had been in a
whirl; now that he had desisted from the attempt his thoughts shaped themselves
more clearly. Here, before him, lay Kitty's father dead--Kitty's father, that
was his first thought--and his heart bled for her. He knew that, though she had
said and felt that Morris Thornton was no more, she would still suffer terribly
on hearing positively that he was dead. Then the strangeness of the thing--the
body being found in Silwood's room, and Silwood his own father's partner!--took
hold of him. Silwood dead! Morris Thornton dead! What did this conjunction
indicate? That there was something extraordinary about it did not admit of any
doubt whatever when it was coupled with the fact that Thornton's body had been
found in Silwood's chambers. How had Morris Thornton come to be there at all?
And in what way had he met his death? What connection was there between that
death and Cooper Silwood? What had Silwood to do with it? Had he anything to do
with it? For what reason? With what end in view? Had Thornton been murdered? If
so, it could not have been by Silwood, for what motive could he have had for
killing Thornton?--Silwood, a member of one of the most respectable firms in
London. And yet there must be some connection and some explanation. What was it?
What could it be? As these questionings flashed through Gilbert's mind, he stood
gazing upon the dead man's face, as if from its sightless eyes and from its dumb
lips there might come some solution of the mystery. And then his thoughts took a
fresh turn. Still gazing at the face of Morris Thornton, he wondered if the man
had come to his death by being shot, if upon the body would be found the marks
of the lethal weapon that had slain him, if the murderer had left behind him
some sign which in the end would lead to his detection and conviction. But this
was to presume Thornton had been murdered, and there was no certainty as to
that. While he was thus musing, his father showed some indications of reviving.
His eyelids fluttered and his lips worked slightly. Gilbert bent down and raised
his father's head. With a deep sigh, Francis Eversleigh opened his eyes and
stared at his son as at some stranger. But reviving still more, a light of
recognition came into his face, and he moved his head. "Are you better, father?"
asked Gilbert. Eversleigh made an effort to speak, but it failed; then he looked
piteously at his son. "I wish I had some brandy to give you," said Gilbert. "A
doctor will be here in a few minutes." At the mention of the word "doctor,"
Francis Eversleigh struggled to raise himself, and, with Gilbert's help, managed
to get into a sitting position. Glancing about him in a weak and uncertain way,
his eyes fell upon the body of Thornton; a frightful spasm seemed to shake him
to pieces; then his eyes all at once blazed with light and life, but in an
instant they became clouded and overcast. "Morris Thornton--I remember," he
said, speaking with great slowness, as though speech were exceedingly difficult
to him. He shut his eyes, as if he would shut out the sight of the dead man,
while Gilbert watched him anxiously and supported him with his strong young
arms. Presently he opened his eyes again, looked at the body, and then at
Gilbert. On his face was a great solemn interrogation which his son could
scarcely fail to understand. Eversleigh was asking what did it all portend, but
Gilbert did not speak; he himself could see no way out of the darkness
surrounding the scene. "What has happened?" asked the older man, but even as he
spoke Gilbert felt his father's form was beginning to press more heavily on him.
"I do not know," the son replied. Francis Eversleigh now fixed his gaze on
Thornton's body once more. "Murder!" he suddenly cried in a piercing voice, and
dropped back unconscious again. "Murder!" Gilbert told himself that he could
follow the mind of his father perfectly. His father thought Morris Thornton had
been murdered. It was to all intents what was in his own mind. But if Thornton
had been murdered, who, then, was the murderer? The piercing cry of "Murder!"
which Francis Eversleigh had raised before swooning again had not been heard by
Gilbert only. The locksmith, who was still in the room, heard it for one, and it
filled him with fresh excitement. He had been endeavouring to puzzle out the
thing in his own way, and was not exactly surprised to find the idea of murder
imported into it. That cry of "Murder!" was the echo of his own thoughts, and
from that moment he was so convinced that Thornton had been murdered that
nothing would disabuse him of the notion. The cry was heard by three others, who
were only a few steps away from the door of Silwood's chambers when Francis
Eversleigh gave utterance to it. They were the doctor from King's College
Hospital, a policeman from Lincoln's Inn Fields, and the Inn porter, all
arriving together. On hearing it, they ran forward into the room. The porter had
already told both the doctor and the policeman his own version of the finding of
the body of Thornton and of the fainting fit of Mr. Eversleigh. "What was that
cry I heard?" demanded the policeman, who was the first to speak. As he spoke he
threw searching glances about and around the room. But Gilbert paid no heed to
his question. He knew the doctor, thanked him for coming so promptly, and asked
him to try to revive his father. "It is the second time he has fainted," said
Gilbert. It was the locksmith that answered the policeman's query. "The sick
gentleman," said he, "him that's in the swound, called out loud 'Murder!' --he'd
been looking at the body--and then he dropped off again. That was the second
time he swounded." "Oh, it was he," said the policeman. Then he advanced to
Gilbert, having been prompted thereto by the porter, who whispered to him, "He's
young Mr. Eversleigh," and said, "Will you tell me from the beginning the whole
story, sir?" By this time his father was in the capable hands of the doctor, so
that Gilbert was able to give his whole attention to the policeman. As
succinctly as possible, he narrated the circumstances which had led to his
father and himself going to Silwood's chambers, how the door was broken open,
and the body of Thornton found lying on the floor. Next the policeman listened
to what the porter and the locksmith had seen, and by the time he had heard what
they had to tell him, Francis Eversleigh had come to himself, though he looked
shattered and frightfully ill. Him, too, the policeman questioned. "Mr. Thornton
was a client of yours, I believe?" remarked the policeman, after many other
queries. "Yes, an old schoolfellow, and one of my greatest friends," replied
Eversleigh. "His daughter is engaged to marry my son Gilbert, here." "This
gentleman?" asked the policeman, pointing to Gilbert. "Yes." "And these are the
private apartments of your partner, Mr. Cooper Silwood?" "Yes." "And the dead
body of Mr. Thornton, your friend, is found in the private apartments of your
partner, Mr. Silwood?" "Yes." "And Mr. Silwood is dead?" "Yes." "Most
extraordinary thing I ever heard of!" exclaimed the policeman. "There's
something very strange here." "My father, as you can see for yourself,"
interposed Gilbert, "is ill; he is in no fit state to stay here a moment longer
than is necessary. But if I can help you, I shall be glad to do so." "Mr.
Eversleigh ought to go home at once," said the doctor. "That is all right," said
the policeman. "Do you report to Inspector Gale?" asked Gilbert of the
policeman; "I know him very well." "Yes; I shall report to him. And in the mean
time these chambers must be closed up and sealed. The inspector will no doubt
come and examine everything in them. This is the usual procedure. And of course
there will be a coroner's inquest. Nothing more can be done at present, I think.
Please sir, do not touch the body," he added, speaking to the doctor, who was
scrutinizing it carefully. "If I went to Scotland Yard, should I find the
inspector in?" asked Gilbert. "You'll find him there at 2.30." "And there is
nothing more that can be done just now?" "Nothing." Leaving Silwood's chambers
in the charge of the policeman, who had now been reinforced by the arrival of
two other constables, the two Eversleighs, the doctor, the locksmith, and the
porter filed out of the chamber of mystery and death. As they entered the court
of Stone Buildings, they saw that little knots of people had collected, who were
discussing something that evidently was unusually interesting. The fact was that
the porter, on his way for the doctor and the policeman, had let fall hints of
what had been found. The Eversleighs were asked by some gentlemen of the long
robe, whom they knew, what was the truth of the matter, and they put before them
the bare facts. But the porter and the locksmith were not so reticent. The
former gossiped freely, but not without a fitting sense of the greatness of the
occasion. The latter went into Chancery Lane by the iron-gated footway leading
from the court of Stone Buildings and saw a crowd gathered on the pavement
opposite the windows of Cooper Silwood's chambers. Already it had been spread
abroad that these chambers had been the scene of some astounding tragedy. The
locksmith, on being asked by some one in the crowd if he could throw any light
on the subject, forthwith poured forth all he knew, declaring that undoubtedly
Morris Thornton, whose dead body had been discovered in Silwood's room, had been
foully murdered. And when the rumour ran that it was the body of the Missing
Millionaire, of whom everybody had heard, the excitement rose to fever heat in
the crowd. A passing reporter, on the staff of one of the evening papers, saw
the crowd, and was soon in possession of the pith of the news, but desirous of
getting the fullest particulars, he sought out the locksmith, who told him the
whole story, again reiterating his conviction that there had been a murder of
the blackest kind. Thus it was the locksmith's idea of what had happened that
coloured the tone of the papers that evening, all of whom made the most of "THE
MYSTERY OF LINCOLN'S INN" and "THE MURDER OF THE MISSING MILLIONAIRE," as they
entitled it on their bills in the largest of capitals. And the affair quickly
created an extraordinary sensation. CHAPTER XIV

It was nearly two o'clock that Saturday afternoon when Francis Eversleigh,
supported by Gilbert and the doctor, left Silwood's chambers in Stone Buildings.
He stopped on his way to his office, as has been said, to gratify the curiosity
of some of his acquaintances; but he was so weak and unsteady that the doctor
soon forbade him, and rightly, to exert himself even to talk. On the arrival of
the little party at 176, New Square, they were met by Ernest Eversleigh and
Williamson the head-clerk, who were anxiously awaiting them, as a rumour had
already reached them of the discovery of the body in Silwood's rooms; the
report, however, had been so vague that they could not believe it. Williamson,
in particular, was sceptical. Ernest eagerly pressed his father and brother for
information; the doctor, however, would not allow Francis Eversleigh to speak,
and Gilbert said that he would presently tell them all, but that he must first
attend to his father, who was far from well. "Just one word, Mr. Gilbert," said
Williamson. "Is it true that the body of Mr. Morris Thornton was found in Mr.
Silwood's sitting-room?--that is the rumour." "Yes, it is quite true."
Williamson, on hearing this, fell back, with a look of the profoundest
astonishment on his face. Up to this time he had not believed it, because, if it
were true, then the suspicions which he had for some time entertained appeared
to be more than confirmed, but he had not looked for so startling a
confirmation. "I was right," he told himself. "I wish I could get to the bottom
of it." Francis Eversleigh meanwhile went up to his room on the second floor,
and now the doctor insisted that he must remain quiet. Further, the doctor said
that he himself would go out to obtain some suitable nourishment for him. As he
withdrew from the room, he beckoned to Gilbert. "Do not leave your father," he
said to Gilbert, in the passage. "I am afraid he is ill--of what I cannot say,
but it is easy to see that his vitality is very low. Has he suffered from some
severe illness--some bad attack recently?" "No. He has been ailing slightly for
a few weeks past--that is all." "He seems to me to be very much run down," the
doctor went on. "You must make a point of getting him to see his own physician--
the family doctor. In the mean time, I'll fetch him a strong pick-me-up and some
light, nourishing food of which he stands much in need. After he has had it, he
should be taken home at once, and put to bed as soon as possible." "Very well,"
agreed Gilbert; and the doctor went on his way down the stairs. Gilbert returned
to his father's room. Father and son, now left alone for the first time since
the discovery of Morris Thornton's body, looked at each other strangely.
Gilbert's gaze seemed to ask the question, "What is the meaning of all this?"
His father understood him but darkly, for he was suffering from a frightful
obsession which numbed his brain. He was powerless to think coherently; all that
he could fix his mind upon was merely what was nearest him, or what was
immediately happening. It was this which explained his next words. "What was the
doctor saying to you, Gilbert?" he asked. "Well, he said you were run down, and
wanted bracing up," replied Gilbert. "Was that it?" "Yes; and I must say that it
is not surprising you're ill, after two such shocks as you have received to-
day." Then there was silence between them. Strange thoughts, half-formed
suspicions crowded upon Gilbert in that pause. He glanced at his father,
uncertain whether to speak to him or not. "Father," he said at last, "I do not
like to press the subject on you when you are so far from strong; but how do you
account for Morris Thornton's body being found in Mr. Silwood's chambers--have
you formed any theory?" "I know no more about it than you," cried Francis
Eversleigh, wildly; "and I do not know what to think.... I cannot think about it
at all ... my brain refuses to act.... I have no idea ... it is all a terrible
and horrible mystery to me!" And then he flung up his hands, as if he were
throwing off some weight which oppressed him. "Oh, it is dreadful, dreadful,
dreadful!" he cried; then burst into a passion of sobs, the sound and sight of
which moved and distressed Gilbert exceedingly. "Father! Father!" said the son,
soothingly, in accents of deepest sympathy. In a few moments Eversleigh grew
calmer, and became a little more like his usual self. "There is just one thing
I'd like to ask you, father," said Gilbert; "that is, if it is not too painful
for you." "What is it, my son?" "You uttered one word in that room over there,"
returned Gilbert, nodding in the direction of Stone Buildings. "What?" "The one
word was 'Murder!' Do you think Mr. Thornton was murdered?" Francis Eversleigh
stared about him with dilated eyes, as might some being who was persecuted and
hunted. "I don't know what to think," he said at length. "But you did exclaim
'Murder!' That was the idea in your mind, was it not?" "Ah, Gilbert, my mind was
utterly confused.... I had suffered a tremendous blow.... Surely I can't be held
responsible for what I said in my condition at the time." "True, father. Still,
there was the idea of murder in your mind," persisted Gilbert. "I tell you that
I know nothing--nothing." "Of course, you know nothing, father; but your thought
on seeing the body--your suspicion--was that there had been murder. Was it not
so?" "I can't say anything about it," replied Eversleigh, fretfully. "I know as
much and as little as you do how it was that Thornton came to be in Silwood's
chambers. Pray do not tease me--do not worry me--I cannot stand it; it is cruel
of you to torture me in this fashion." Gilbert stared at his father, wondering
what was meant by the expression "torture"--he could not understand it. He was
glad that the doctor returned at this moment, bringing with him wine and a light
lunch for the invalid. Leaving his father to the doctor's care, he went down to
the next floor, where he saw his brother Ernest, who was all agog to hear the
story. When Ernest had listened to Gilbert's narrative, his sole commentary upon
it was--

"Of course, everybody will say that Morris Thornton was murdered by Silwood;
what other conclusion can there be?" "But why?" urged Gilbert. "What motive
could Silwood have? No, I don't think that can be the explanation. I confess,
however, the thing baffles me completely." "Still," said Ernest, "you may be
quite sure that it's what the world will say. In any case, it can't fail to do
us a lot of mischief." "Oh, that will depend on circumstances when the mystery
is cleared up, as I imagine it soon must be." Then Gilbert spoke of their
father's condition, and suggested that Ernest should take Francis Eversleigh to
Surbiton as soon as the doctor gave permission. As for himself, he was going on
to Scotland Yard to see Inspector Gale. "What am I tell Kitty?" asked Ernest.
"I'll write her a note, which you will give her. Of course, I should have liked
to have broken the sad news to her myself; but from what I know of her, I am
sure that she would prefer me to lose no opportunity of unravelling the mystery
of her father's death. Besides, she has always believed, since she knew of Mr.
Thornton's disappearance, that he was dead." And Gilbert sat down and wrote his
love a letter, full of the tenderest feeling, in which he told her of the
discovery which had been made that day, and of which his brother Ernest would
give her more complete details. Then he went on to say that he would not spare
himself in trying to elucidate the whole strange business, nor would he lose any
time; therefore, he would see Inspector Gale that very afternoon; he would go to
Scotland Yard, in fact, immediately after sealing the letter to her. But he
would be at Surbiton in the evening. When Gilbert did reach Scotland Yard, he
found Gale expecting him. "I was waiting for you, Mr. Gilbert," said the
inspector. "Yes?" "One of the constables told me you asked when I would be in,
and he replied at half-past two; it is a quarter-past three now. By the way, how
is your father? I hear he was so shocked that he fainted twice." "He is better
now, but still very much shaken. I left him in the doctor's charge, and when he
is able to go my brother Ernest will take him home." "I think his home is in
Surbiton?" "Yes; I told you that when we were discussing the disappearance of
Mr. Thornton." "Quite so. A day or two's rest will pull your father round. Of
course, I must see him. Do you think he will be fit to see me to-morrow?" "I
should think so. And he must be as anxious as anybody--indeed, more anxious than
anybody--to have this extraordinary affair cleared up." "Certainly. Now, Mr.
Gilbert, let me hear everything from the beginning. Take your own time about it,
and try not to forget anything. Don't leave out the slightest touch that may
have any bearing on the subject." "I will do my best," said Gilbert. "My father,
on learning of the death of Mr. Silwood, sent for me this morning." "Excuse me,"
interrupted the inspector, "but I must ask you questions as you go along. Was it
this morning your father heard of Mr. Silwood's death, and how did he hear of
it?" "By letter this morning. The letter was from Ugo Ucelli, the Syndic of
Camajore, with the usual certificate of death. The letter gave the particulars
of Mr. Silwood's death. Cholera is epidemic along the Gulf of Genoa, and Mr.
Silwood fell a victim to it. The body was buried twenty-four hours after death.
Of course, the news affected my father very much--it was totally unexpected."
"What was Mr. Silwood doing in Italy?" asked Gale. "He was on a holiday." "Had
he been long away from the office, from Lincoln's Inn?" "A week or two only, I
think." "You cannot say exactly?" "No, but you will easily find out at the
office." "I thought you might know, but, as you say, I can ascertain the date at
the office. You see, of course, that it is necessary to get to know Mr.
Silwood's movements?" The last sentence was put interrogatively. "This means, I
imagine, that you connect Mr. Silwood with the death of Mr. Thornton?" asked
Gilbert. "That is the obvious thing," replied the inspector; "but it is so
obvious that I distrust it. I always doubt the obvious in these cases. Here,
however, it is my duty to neglect nothing. And I must make it my business to
find out everything I can about Mr. Silwood, and with regard to that I count
with confidence on your father's assistance. Well, to go back, your father, on
learning of Mr. Silwood's death, sent for you; what came next?" "He showed me
the certificate signed by the Syndic; it was in Italian, a language neither my
father nor I understand, but a large part of the certificate was printed, and
from our Latin we made out pretty well what it said. The letter, however, we
could make nothing of, so I went and got a man to translate it." Gilbert broke
off suddenly with a sharp ejaculation. "You have thought of something, Mr.
Gilbert?" suggested the inspector, giving him a keen look of inquiry. "Yes, I
have, and a very important thing it may prove too. It has been completely driven
out of my mind by the dreadful discovery in Stone Buildings. Now I remember it,
and I believe it may give us the key to the mystery." "What is it?" asked Gale,
as Gilbert paused, his face aglow with excitement. "Before I went out to bring
the interpreter something happened," said Gilbert. "Strange that I should have
forgotten it so utterly! While my father and I were talking about Mr. Silwood's
death, we were interrupted by a man, who had come in answer to the advertisement
in the hope of getting the reward of a thousand pounds. The man was as hopeless-
looking a waster and vagabond as any I ever saw, but he spoke like a man of
education. And he told us that late on the night of the disappearance of Morris
Thornton he was in Chancery Lane, and saw a workman coming out of the iron gate
at the north-east corner of Lincoln's Inn." "That is just where Mr. Silwood's
chambers are, are they not?" asked Gale. "Precisely; his rooms are on the top
floor of the house at that very corner. Well, this workman behaved in a
suspicious manner, and then disappeared. But he returned in about half an hour,
and let himself into the Inn again by the iron gate." "Wait a minute," said
Gale. "You said a workman. What was a workman doing in the Inn at that time of
night? And with a key which unlocked that gate?" "These are puzzles, are they
not?" "You have certainly given me something to think over. Have you anything
more to tell me about this workman?" "No; our informant did not see him again."
Gilbert now resumed the thread of his narrative, telling the inspector all that
took place when he and his father went to Silwood's chambers. The inspector, as
Gilbert proceeded, compared his statement with the report made by the policeman
who had been summoned by the porter. "What you tell me," said Gale, when Gilbert
had finished, "bears out exactly what my subordinate has set forth. The coroner
has been sent for, and we must wait till we hear from him. I shall accompany him
when he makes his examination of the body, and I expect a message from him every
minute." "Will you let me go with you?" asked Gilbert. "You must remember that I
am engaged to Mr. Thornton's daughter, and so am, therefore, in a measure her
representative." "I have not forgotten that, and I do not know that there is any
objection. If you will tell me where I can find you, I'll let you know. I must
send you away just now, for I wish to be alone to think--and there is a great
deal to think of." "Very well. I'll stay in the waiting-room outside," and
Gilbert left the inspector to his thoughts. CHAPTER XV

"As strange a case as any I ever heard of," said Inspector Gale to himself,
after Gilbert had withdrawn. "Now, what do I know about it exactly? Let me see."
Gale was a shrewd man, with an abundance of sound common sense and an extensive
experience in criminal matters. He also had a certain degree of imagination,
which is the quality the ordinary detective lacks. From a cabinet he took some
sheets of blue paper which were fastened together; they were the memoranda he
had made of the facts connected with the disappearance of Morris Thornton. Gale
read them over rapidly but carefully. Putting them down on his desk, he
reflected. "Morris Thornton, a rich colonial," he thought, "came to London on
July 29th, and put up at the Law Courts Hotel in Holborn. Late in the evening of
the next day, July 30th, he left the hotel for a walk in Holborn or perhaps in
Chancery Lane--so he said to the porter. To-day, August 14th, his body is found
in a room at the top of a house in Stone Buildings, Lincoln's Inn, that is, on
the Chancery Lane side of the Inn. That looks as if he had carried out his
intention of taking a stroll in Chancery Lane. This fits in well enough. What
next? "How did he get up to the room at that time of night? The Inn would be
closed; the night porter of the Inn must have let him in. I must make a note of
that. And what took him there? He must have had some object in view. And the
room was in the set of chambers occupied by Mr. Cooper Silwood, one of the most
respectable solicitors in London, and a member of the very firm of solicitors
with whom Mr. Thornton transacted his business. Could it be that Mr. Thornton
had gone to see Mr. Silwood about some matter? But surely not at that hour--it
hardly seems possible. Still I must not neglect that phase of the case. "As
regards Mr. Silwood. As he is now dead, the thing looks like leading up to a
blind wall. He had been for some time away on a holiday. I must get the date
when he left London. If he was in London on July 30th, or on the next day, the
case would appear pretty black for him. Then there is the locked door. The door
of the room in which the body was found had a special lock, and of course a
special key, which Mr. Silwood carried. Some one locked the door on the dead
man; the only one, presumably, who had the key to lock it was Mr. Silwood. This
also looks pretty black for him. "But the motive? Suppose Silwood did kill
Morris Thornton, what would be his reason? It must have been some very strong
reason indeed that would make a respectable solicitor murder an important
client. Most improbable--impossible, one would have said; but nothing is
impossible, nothing in the world. Yet everything points to the deed having been
done by Silwood. The conclusion is obvious." At this point in his reflections
Gale took a turn up and down the floor. He was saying to himself, as he had said
to Gilbert, that when a conclusion was obvious, then it was necessary to beware
of it. His long experience had taught him that obvious conclusions rarely turned
out to be correct. "Well, where are we?" Gale mused, sitting down again. "Let us
say Silwood had a motive for murdering Thornton, and did actually kill him, and
having committed the murder, fled the country on the pretence of taking a
holiday--suppose all this; where does it land us?" Here a curious idea came into
Gale's mind. He considered it doubtfully for two or three minutes; then,
reminding himself of his favourite theory that nothing was impossible, he gave
it tentatively a place in his thoughts. "Suppose," he said to himself, "that
Silwood is not dead, and that all this palaver about the certificate of death
from the Italian magistrate is a skilfully manufactured affair, a mere pretence,
in fact, with the object of defeating justice? If this were so, it would
complete the case with a vengeance. Still, why shouldn't Silwood be dead? Well,
I must look into it, though the idea that he is alive seems rather far-fetched."
Far-fetched or not, the idea fascinated the inspector as it appealed to his
imagination; it haunted him so that he could not drive it out of his mind.
"Suppose," he kept saying to himself over and over again, "Silwood is not dead.
If he is not dead, what does that imply? Does it mean that there is some
conspiracy, a conspiracy in which the Eversleighs are involved?" Gale pondered
deeply. He had the feeling that somehow he was on the verge of a great
discovery; but, as he thought still further, he was not so sure. It seemed
absurd to connect the Eversleighs with anything of the sort. Finally, he came to
a decision. Rising from his chair, he pressed an electric bell, and told a man
who instantly appeared in answer to his call to ask Mr. Gilbert Eversleigh to
step into the room. Gilbert, expecting that the coroner had been heard from,
came in eagerly. "The coroner?" he asked. "No, Mr. Gilbert. I wished you to tell
me again the name of the place in Italy where Mr. Silwood died." "Camajore, in
the province of Tuscany--it is in the north of Italy, on the west coast or a few
miles inland." "Camajore?" repeated Gale. "How is it spelt?" Gilbert spelt the
word. "Do you know the place?" asked the officer. "Not at all." "Do you happen
to know the best and quickest way of getting to it?" "You would take the train
for Genoa, I fancy. Camajore is only a short distance from Genoa. But why do you
ask me this?" "It will be necessary, I think, for us to have the death of Mr.
Silwood confirmed." "I understand," said Gilbert, but he had only a glimmering
of the inspector's meaning. "It will be as well--as a matter of form." "Quite
so," said Gale. "All sorts of inquiries will be made, and we must be in a
position to answer them. By the way, Mr. Gilbert, would you mind telling me if
Mr. Silwood was on terms of intimacy with Mr. Thornton--would you say that Mr.
Silwood was as much of a friend of Mr. Thornton as your father was?" "Mr.
Thornton certainly knew Mr. Silwood very well, though perhaps he was hardly on
the same terms of intimate friendship as my father was." "Still there was a
considerable acquaintance?" "Undoubtedly." "Do you think Mr. Thornton knew Mr.
Silwood well enough to go to the latter's rooms at midnight or thereabouts?" "I
should scarcely have thought so. It's rather an extreme thing to go to a man's
rooms at that time of night." "But if there was some pressing reason?" "Of
course, necessity knows no law, but I can't suppose for one instant there was
such a necessity. I believe that Mr. Thornton's relations with both Mr. Silwood
and my father were of the most cordial character; indeed, I am certain they
were. There was absolutely no hint of anything else. I know that for many years
past Mr. Thornton reposed the greatest confidence in my father's firm." "So I
understand," assented Gale. "Now, Mr. Gilbert, I must ask you to leave me. I
shall tell you the instant I hear from the coroner." And Gilbert went out once
more. As soon as he had gone, Gale rang his bell again. "I cannot go myself," he
mused; "I must be present at the inquest--that is necessary. I must send
Brydges." Brydges was the detective who ranked next to himself in Scotland Yard.
In a moment or two more Brydges was in the presence of the chief. "You have
heard about the Lincoln's Inn case?" asked Gale. "Yes, something, but not
accurately--just what they are saying in the Yard." "And that is?" "That the
body of the missing millionaire has been found in a room at the top of a house
in Stone Buildings, the said room being the sitting-room of a Mr. Cooper
Silwood, a solicitor, a member, in fact, of the firm of solicitors who did the
dead man's legal business. A very curious position, is it not?" commented
Brydges. "Very curious indeed. All the more so because Mr. Silwood too is dead."
"Yes, I heard that also." "It is with reference to Silwood's death that I want
you just now. I wish you to go to Italy, to a place called Camajore, some miles
from Genoa, and find out everything you can about his death." "Ah!" exclaimed
Brydges; "I see. You think his death may be a fake; is that it?" "Well, it
occurred to me that it might be so; at any rate, I think it well worth inquiring
further into. You can leave to-night for Genoa?" "Yes, certainly." "And you will
wire the results of your mission in cipher to me as soon as possible," said
Gale. "Am I to consult the local authorities?" "Yes; I'll have a letter of
credentials prepared for you. You will present it to the police at Genoa, and I
do not imagine you will find any difficulty. Now, go and make your
preparations." Left alone once again, Gale took up the thread of his musings.
"There is one other point," he thought, "and that is the presence in Chancery
Lane, on the night when Thornton disappeared, of that mysterious workman, who
possessed the key to the iron gates of the small footway communicating with the
court of Stone Buildings and Chancery Lane itself. "What was it I was told? A
workman, or a man dressed as a workman, let himself out of the iron gate late at
night; the man appeared to be flurried, to act in a suspicious manner. In about
half an hour he returned, and let himself in again. He was seen no more that
night. And it was _the_ night--the night presumably of the murder. "This
assuredly must be followed up; it looks like a clue. I must get hold of the
waster who told the story, and hear for myself what he has to say. I wonder if
he spoke the truth, or if he invented the whole thing. And if this story is
true, and if this workman had something to do with Thornton's death, how is he
to be connected with Cooper Silwood? If this workman committed the murder, how
did he get possession of the key to Silwood's chambers? Perhaps, during
Silwood's absence, he got into the room. Well, it comes back to getting the date
on which Silwood left London for his holiday--that's what I must ascertain." The
inspector had reached this conclusion when there was a knock at his door, and a
constable entered and informed him that the coroner had sent a message to the
effect that he was waiting for him in Silwood's chambers. Gale called Gilbert,
who had been sitting outside wearily and impatiently, and the two men got into a
cab and drove to the scene of the discovery of the body. On their way thither
Gale put a question. "I am very anxious to get to know the day on which Mr.
Silwood left London," said the officer; "do you think you could find that out
for me this afternoon?" "I think the office will be closed, but I'll go and see,
if you like." "I wish you would. Suppose you go round to New Square while I go
on to Mr. Silwood's chambers?" Gilbert agreed, and presently was in the office
of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, where, to his great surprise, he found
Williamson still on the premises, apparently hard at work. "What a day this has
been, Mr. Gilbert!" cried Williamson. "I thought I'd wait to see if there was
any more news. Your father and Mr. Ernest have just gone home. I'm afraid your
father, Mr. Gilbert, is very poorly--not that that is strange, after what has
happened." "No, indeed," said Gilbert. "Can you tell me, Mr. Williamson," he
went on, "the day on which Mr. Silwood left for his holiday?" "A fortnight ago,
exactly, to-day I had a note from him, saying he was off to Italy. I don't know
whether he went by the night mail on the evening of the Friday or by the
continental express on the Saturday morning; he did not mention which train he
was going by." "A fortnight ago to-day? That was July 31st. And Friday was the
30th." "Precisely," said Williamson, with a touch of malice, "and that is the
very day--that Friday--on which Mr. Thornton disappeared. It has a strange look,
Mr. Gilbert; I can make nothing of it--nothing at all." "You are sure of the
date?" asked Gilbert, sharply. "As I said, it was either on the Friday night or
on the Saturday morning that Mr. Silwood left." Gilbert, as he went to tell
Inspector Gale what he had learned, could not but confess to himself that the
matter did wear a very strange look indeed. When he got to Stone Buildings, he
saw the inspector, the coroner, an assistant, and two constables. It was Gale
who spoke. "The coroner," he remarked, "is having the body taken to the nearest
mortuary, Mr. Gilbert, and he will report later. Meanwhile, I have made an
examination of these apartments, and I am bound to say that everything in them
appears to be in good order. I see no sign of disorder, no indication of a
struggle. And I have looked into the bedroom, and there also I can see nothing
to take hold of. Mr. Silwood, I should say, prepared in the most leisurely
fashion for his trip; not a thing betokens hurry or flurry--this is all
satisfactory enough, so far as it goes." Gale addressed a few words to the
coroner, and then the body was removed. As Gilbert turned to leave the room,
Gale put his arm on his sleeve. "What about the date?" he asked. "Mr. Silwood
left either that Friday night or next morning--which, is not certain." Gale
looked at Gilbert, earnestly, but he did not speak; his silence was eloquent
enough. "You think," said Gilbert, slowly, "that Silwood murdered----?" He did
not complete the sentence. "I say nothing definite, Mr. Gilbert; but don't you
think it looks that way?" "It is impossible--impossible!" said Gilbert. But Gale
shook his head. When Gilbert got to Waterloo, on his way to see Kitty, he heard
at the bookstall people eagerly asking for the latest editions of the evening
papers. On the placards he saw in big black letters--

"THE BODY OF THE MISSING MILLIONAIRE DISCOVERED." "IS IT MURDER?" How was he to
tell Kitty, his darling? What could he say to her? But when he arrived at
Surbiton, he was surprised to find that Kitty showed considerable calmness in
the circumstances. "I was sure my father was dead," she said to him, as they
talked over the discovery of the body. "I was certain that if he had been alive
he would have come to me. I never had any hope. And, Gilbert, I do not believe
that Mr. Silwood killed him. Why should he have done so? I wonder if the
darkness which surrounds my father's death will ever be cleared away?" "It is
shrouded in mystery at present, my darling," said Gilbert, immensely relieved
that Kitty was bearing up so well; "but perhaps some evidence will be
forthcoming at the inquest. It is to take place on Tuesday." "I think I should
like to be present," said Kitty, after a long pause. "It may be very painful for
you, and I do not believe you will be called on." "It is my duty, I suppose, and
I must not shrink from it." "My own brave little girl," said Gilbert, kissing
her fondly. CHAPTER XVI

All the newspapers had published as full accounts as they could compile of the
Lincoln's Inn Mystery, dwelling on and emphasizing the extraordinary features of
the case. Determined now to give it the utmost publicity, Inspector Gale had
supplied them with most of the information at his command, but he took good care
to say not a word about the mission on which he had despatched Brydges. What he
did communicate to the Press was sufficient, however, to arouse the public to a
still higher pitch of excitement regarding the whole strange story of Morris
Thornton. As a natural consequence, the room in which the inquest was held was
packed as densely as it could be. In the mean time Gale had been exceedingly
active. He had not yet received any message from Brydges; he did not, in fact,
expect to hear from him for a day or two, if so soon. But he had interviewed
Miss Kitty Thornton and Francis Eversleigh. From the former he had obtained her
father's letter announcing his coming to England, but he saw the missive was of
no particular importance in itself. From the latter person he had been able to
learn nothing fresh, but he had a feeling that Francis Eversleigh's state of
collapse was much more complete than the occasion, sad and painful as it was,
quite accounted for, and he asked himself if it were possible that the solicitor
was holding back something from him. Both Miss Kitty and Eversleigh had somewhat
puzzled the detective, but for entirely different reasons. Both of them were
present in the room at the inquest--indeed, they sat side by side; and Gale,
secretly watching them, found himself puzzled again by what had puzzled him
before. What puzzled him was, on the one hand, the quiet strength shown by the
girl; and on the other, the superlative weakness exhibited by the man. He was
astounded by the firm, composed demeanour of Miss Thornton, but he was even more
astounded by the nervous, perturbed, and almost hysterical condition of
Eversleigh. Gale thought that if the positions of the two had been reversed, he
would have understood it better. The truth was, so far as Kitty was concerned,
that having concluded some time before that her father was dead, and also, after
hearing the details of the finding of the body in Stone Buildings, that it was
in the highest degree improbable that he had been murdered by Cooper Silwood,
she had made up her mind, in spite of her grief, to take a certain stand. For
she saw that, as the case stood, Francis Eversleigh, her lover Gilbert, and the
rest of the Eversleighs, to all of whom she occupied almost the relation of a
member of their family, must rest under a heavy cloud until such time as the
darkness should be lifted. Therefore, she nerved herself to face this crisis in
her and their affairs with all the courage and determination she possessed, and
to demonstrate by her attitude that she, the daughter of Morris Thornton, had
every confidence in them. Gilbert, who knew what was in her mind, thanked and
blessed her, and admired and loved her more than ever. Highly intelligent, she
did not fail to know that popular opinion pronounced Cooper Silwood, the partner
of Francis Eversleigh, the murderer of her father, and she was set on making it
plain to all the world that she did not take that view. As she sat by the side
of Francis Eversleigh she took his hand, and tried to assure him of her sympathy
and support. As for Francis Eversleigh, his lamentable state was so evident that
no one could behold him without pity. His face was full of suffering, his eyes
were heavy and dull, his frame was bent and bowed. He tried to concentrate his
thoughts, to fix his wandering wits on some definite idea, but the slightest
effort exhausted him. All that he was really conscious of was that he was the
victim of an incredibly cruel and malicious destiny that was slowly grinding the
life out of him. In a blurr of emotions he hazily wondered how he was to get
through the ordeal of the day. And further, he had a faint suspicion--he was not
able to formulate it clearly--that, when Gale had spoken to him about the date
on which Cooper Silwood had left for his Italian holiday, he had said something
unguardedly--he could not remember exactly what--to the inspector, which that
officer had regarded as peculiar. He was trying, with such strength as was left
him, to recall it when the coroner took his seat. When the jury had been
impanelled and sworn, they, according to custom, went to view the remains--now
hardly recognizable, but in the dead man's clothes had been found letters which
further identified him, had there been any doubt. But there was no doubt
whatever that the remains were the remains of Morris Thornton. Thereafter
evidence was given. Inspector Gale, between whom and the coroner there chanced
to be a tacit feud, on account of former differences--a circumstance which later
was to have its effect on the inquest--followed every word with the closest
attention. First came the tale of the finding of the body. The locksmith was
called, and he recounted his share in the discovery in Stone Buildings, as
already set forth in this narrative. But he was particularly questioned about
the difficulty he had experienced in opening the door of Silwood's chambers. In
reply, he described the Yale lock which he had forced to gain admission to the
rooms; it was a lock of a special kind, and could only be opened and locked by a
special key. The lock was now produced and identified by the locksmith. A clerk
from the makers was then put in the box. He stated that the lock bore a number
in addition to the name of the firm to which he belonged, and by tracing the
number in their books, they were able to state that the lock had been supplied
to Mr. Cooper Silwood some four years before, and he mentioned the precise date.
And with the lock they had supplied two keys; they had not retained a
triplicate. One of their men, he said, had fixed the lock on the door of Mr.
Silwood's chambers. Asked by the coroner if the lock was of the kind that would
shut of itself on the swinging-to of the door, he answered that it was not; it
could neither be opened nor locked without the proper key being used. The door
was locked, witness volunteered, after Mr. Thornton was dead. "I don't know that
you can say that!" exclaimed the coroner, sharply. "The door was certainly
locked by some one on Mr. Thornton, alive or dead; a key was used, it is plain,
but you do not know that Mr. Thornton was dead at the time; you have no right to
say that." "Perhaps not," said the clerk, humbly; "but it occurred to me, sir,
that if Mr. Thornton had been alive when he was locked in, he would have tried
to get out. When he found he could not get out by the door, would he not have
broken one of the windows? Or maybe he would not have had more to do than lift a
window and cry for help to some one without." The coroner agreed that there was
something in what the clerk had said, but he did not pursue this branch of
inquiry further. "You said," remarked the coroner, "that your firm supplied Mr.
Silwood with two keys?" "Yes." "He never told you that he had lost one of the
keys?" "I am positive he never did. If he had lost one, he would have sent to us
for another, surely; and then I must have heard of it, for it is my duty to keep
the record of the keys. We have a regular registry." "On the other hand, he
might lose a key and say nothing about it; is that not so?" "Certainly, sir."
Inspector Gale wondered not a little at the unusual line the coroner was taking
in his questions. The clerk was now dismissed, and the Lincoln's Inn porter
summoned. The porter corroborated in the main the evidence of the locksmith, the
only new point he made being to state that he had been sent for by Mr. Francis
Eversleigh to open Silwood's door. He was aware that this particular door had a
special lock, and he had informed Mr. Eversleigh of the fact. Then Francis
Eversleigh was called, and as he was plainly very ill, he was given a chair. The
coroner, who knew him perfectly, invited him to make a statement, and in a weak,
halting, hesitating manner he did so. When it was finished he was asked a few
questions. "You were aware that Mr. Thornton intended coming to London?" "He
wrote to us to that effect, but he specified no date on which we might look for
him." "You did not know of his arrival in London--until when?" "Until my son,
Gilbert, who had been making inquiries, told me of Mr. Thornton's coming to the
Law Courts Hotel, and of the subsequent disappearance. Thereafter my firm
offered a reward for any information which might lead us to know what had become
of him." "Your son Gilbert had been making inquiries--why?" Francis Eversleigh,
stumbling at every second or third word, gave an account of the circumstances
which had resulted in the discovery that Morris Thornton had come to London, and
had thereafter disappeared. "I was naturally very anxious," said Eversleigh.
"Mr. Thornton was an old and dear friend, and his only child, a daughter, had
lived with us for some years." "Was Mr. Silwood also a friend of the deceased?"
"Almost as much as I was." "There was no ill feeling between them?" "I am quite
sure there was not." "Have you any explanation to offer, or any suggestion to
make, regarding the finding of Mr. Thornton's body in your partner's private
apartments?" "I can account for it in no way. It is a profound mystery to me. No
one was more surprised than I was when the body was discovered in Mr. Silwood's
sitting-room. The shock was so great, indeed, that I fainted away." "What was
the date on which Mr. Silwood departed for his holiday--I understand he went to
Italy?" "He went on the very night that Mr. Thornton disappeared, or the
following morning. A note was received from him on the Saturday morning saying
he was off--that was the day after Mr. Thornton's disappearance." Here Inspector
Gale interposed, and said it would be proved that Mr. Silwood left on the
Saturday morning. The words caused an immense sensation in the room; the feeling
was general that this had an important bearing on the case; in the breast of
almost every one present there was the impression that the dead man had been
murdered by Silwood. Black despair clutched at Francis Eversleigh's heart-
strings. Gilbert was next called, and said what he had to say in a manly,
straightforward manner. Inspector Gale now came upon the stand, and put before
the jury the facts as he knew them. In brief, he said the facts were that Mr.
Thornton, on the Friday night in question, left his hotel with the declared
intention of going for a walk in Holborn or in Chancery Lane; that he did not
return; and that his body, fifteen days later, was found in Stone Buildings,
which was a part of Lincoln's Inn, practically in Chancery Lane. Also, that the
room in which the body was discovered belonged to Mr. Silwood, who had left
London the morning next after the disappearance of Mr. Thornton. The conclusion
was obvious; yet, on the other hand, there were two considerations to which
importance must be attached: one was the absence of motive on the part of
Silwood, the other was that on the very night of the disappearance, a man,
dressed as a workman, had been seen to issue from Lincoln's Inn, from the Stone
Buildings end of the Inn, and that he had not been able to find out anything
about this workman. In these circumstances he suggested that the jury should
return an open verdict. Gale's reference to the mysterious workman was the first
intimation the public had received of that person; it had the effect somewhat of
casting doubt on the certainty of Silwood's guilt. "An open verdict," said the
coroner, with a curious inflection of voice. "Wait till we have heard the
medical evidence." Dr. Gilson, an eminent man, called and sworn, said that he
had made an autopsy on the body, according to instructions from the coroner.
"With what result?" asked the coroner. "I found no trace of violence on the
body; there was absolutely nothing to indicate Mr. Thornton came by his death by
foul means. On the contrary, my examination showed conclusively that death came
from the bursting of an aneurism. Mr. Thornton undoubtedly died of heart-
disease. In other words, he died from natural causes." "From natural causes!"
The thing seemed beyond belief. The coroner, who had been prepared for what was
coming, glanced at Gale, and on his face was the ghost of a smile. Every one in
the room looked at every one else with blank amazement. "From natural causes!"
they repeated to each other. Then Morris Thornton had not been murdered after
all. But on reflection they saw that the mystery was not solved, and now they
inquired, how had he come to die "from natural causes" _in Cooper Silwood's
rooms_? When Francis Eversleigh heard the doctor's words, a light of gladness
came upon his face. For the first time for days he seemed to breathe more like a
man; but like the rest he was astonished and asked the same question all were
asking. A second doctor, of equal eminence with the other expert, confirmed the
statement of his colleague. "There is not the faintest shadow of doubt," said
he, "that Mr. Thornton died from the bursting of an aneurism. He was not
murdered, he died from natural causes--so much is absolutely certain." After
this there was very little to be done. The jury brought in a verdict that Morris
Thornton died from natural causes. But the Lincoln's Inn Mystery was as great as
ever. CHAPTER XVII

Never had there been a more baffling mystery. Morris Thornton, the missing
millionaire, had not been murdered either by Cooper Silwood or the mysterious
workman, either of whom might have been thought guilty of the crime; medical
testimony, based on the scientific accuracy of an autopsy, was conclusive on
this point. The man had fallen a victim to heart-disease, and there was no
getting away from the fact. But a great deal about the case called loudly for
explanation. Amongst others were such queries being put as: How did Thornton
come to be in Silwood's rooms? Had he gone there of his own volition? If so,
with what object? And once there, what had taken place prior to his death? And
who had locked the door upon him? And did any one besides Silwood have a key to
the rooms? It was a curiously tangled skein: would it ever be unravelled? or
would it take its place among the many unsolved mysteries of London? The
Thornton Mystery continued to be the talk, the question, of the day, and many
keen brains set to work upon it. The popular imagination, too, was powerfully
impressed by the pathos of the idea of Thornton, after years of striving and
success in the land of his exile, coming home only to meet his death in this
strange fashion in the midst of such extraordinary surroundings. As for the
inquest itself, its wholly unexpected result filled the general public with
astonishment. In some minds it excited a feeling of alarm, because it showed how
possible it was for a man to pass out of sight, to be lost and swallowed up,
even to die, and all this take place without the police, the guardians of the
great city's peace and safety, being aware of it. Both the amazement and the
alarm were evident in that unerring reflex and register of opinion, the Press of
the country. Not a newspaper throughout the land but commented at length on the
subject. They were at tremendous pains to set forth the whole dark story with
the utmost minuteness. Some even attempted a solution of the problems it
disclosed. And in one instance, at least, this led to a further development. The
_Morning Call_, a well-known London journal, had secretly changed hands; it had
a new editor and for the most part a new staff; every man on it tingled and
burned to distinguish himself and cover his paper with glory. The general line
taken by the _Call_ was the sensational, and the Thornton Mystery was just the
sort of thing out of which it calculated to make fresh capital. From its point
of view, the tame finding of the jury at the inquest was overwhelmingly
disappointing. Westgate, a member of its staff, who had been present at it, told
his chief, that the result was "simply disgusting." And his chief, with a smile,
had sympathized with him. Westgate had come from a rival paper known as the
_Morning Light_, and was a very smart and capable journalist. From his natural
bent, as well as from his training, he had made himself an expert of no mean
standing on all matters connected with crime. He would have been an excellent
detective, but the detective service, which is not recruited from the most
intelligent classes in the world, gave no sufficient salary for a man of his
stamp. As a journalist, he earned twelve hundred a year, and was well worth
every penny of it. Inspector Gale, the best detective in England, did not get
five pounds a week. Westgate's chief, who had been editor of the _Morning
Light_, knew and appreciated the speciality of his subordinate. Discussing the
case after the verdict, he asked him what he thought of it. "I don't know quite
what to think," replied Westgate, "but I am not satisfied. There is something in
the affair that does not meet the eye; there is something behind it all. For one
thing, I feel as certain as I am of being alive that the solution of the mystery
rests with Cooper Silwood. It turns on him as on a pivot. I take no stock in the
tramp's story of his seeing a workman coming out of Lincoln's Inn on the night
of Thornton's disappearance. If the tramp was in Chancery Lane at the time he
said he was, how was it he saw nothing of Morris Thornton? Morris Thornton was
undoubtedly in the Lane--at least it is altogether likely--at or about the time
the tramp said he was there. But, in any case, who would trust the story of a
tramp by itself? Why, you can pick up a waster of the same kind any night of the
year you like, and he'll pitch you any yarn he thinks you want. No, the case
turns on Silwood." "Well, suppose I grant you that, what then? If the solution
lies with Silwood, it will continue to rest with him, as he is dead. You run
your head up against a stone wall, Westgate. Silwood's death ends the thing
pretty finally." "Silwood dead!" cried Westgate, pursuing his own train of
thought. "Just think of it! Isn't it the strangest thing in the world? In the
way of coincidence it beats anything I ever heard of. Consider, for a second.
Suppose, for the sake of argument, it had been proved that Thornton was
murdered, and that the murder was committed by Silwood, what a fortunate event
Silwood's dying at this precise juncture would be for Silwood! You see that,
don't you?" "Of course, the coincidence is remarkable, but what more can you say
about it? Silwood is dead, and that settles everything--so far as it can be
settled. There does not seem to be much more to say." "Though it does not appear
to be much good," persisted Westgate, "still, the key of the situation, as I
said before, lies with Silwood. I wish I knew more about that man. Personally, I
feel certain that Silwood, when he went off for his holiday that Saturday
morning, locked the door on the dead body of Thornton." "How you harp on this,
Westgate! You have no evidence for what you say, either." "There is a strong
presumption, however." "The exact time of Thornton's death is not known, yet you
are arguing as if it was. You cannot say for certain that Thornton was dead that
morning at all." "The doctors agreed that Thornton had been dead about fifteen
days when the body was found. That brings his death pretty well, or, at any
rate, very close, to the time of his disappearance." "Still there might be a gap
of a good many hours." "I doubt it," said Westgate, stubbornly. "Let me tell you
what happened, as it seems to me. On leaving the Law Courts Hotel, Thornton went
to Chancery Lane, got somehow or other into Silwood's rooms, and died there
suddenly a short while afterwards. I am convinced that he saw Silwood when he
got into the room, and that something occurred between him and Silwood--I don't
even attempt to guess what it was--which produced such an effect upon his weak
heart that he dropped dead from the shock." "Your explanation is plausible, but
it suffers from your not being certain that Silwood was there with Thornton at
the time of the latter's death. In assuming Silwood's presence, you assume too
much. But go on with your mapping out of what happened. Suppose we take your
suppositions as certainties, what next?" "When Silwood saw that Thornton was
dead, he would ask himself what he was to do," Westgate resumed. "There was the
body in the room, and its being there had to be accounted for somehow. Silwood,
I am positive, shrank from saying anything about it--shrank to such an extent
that he made up his mind to fly rather than appear to have any connection
whatever with it." The chief of the _Call_ shook his head. "This," said he, "is
just where your building up of the case tumbles to pieces. Suppose Thornton died
in Silwood's presence, why on earth should not Silwood have said so boldly? Why
should he have run away as you conjecture he did? Would it not have been far
easier, safer, better for him to have at once summoned a policeman and told him
what had happened?" "But he didn't call a policeman!" exclaimed Westgate,
eagerly; "don't you see where that lands you? Why did he not call a policeman--
why? Because he had some strong reason for not doing so. If everything had been
absolutely all right, he would, as a matter of course, have summoned a
policeman, and there would be no Thornton Mystery at all--only the pathos of the
story of a man's career ending in such swift tragedy; that would have been all.
No! Again I say that, for some reason or other, Silwood did not care to face the
world and tell it what took place in his room that night. Instead of staying to
face the music as an honest man would, he resolved on flight, and did
accordingly fly the country the following morning. Mind you, I do not say that
Silwood knew Thornton died from heart failure--that is another aspect of the
thing; he may have believed that he had something to do physically with bringing
about the death of Thornton. Still, that is not the main thing. The main thing
is that he had some good reason for flight, and that he did fly." The chief said
nothing, though a pause on Westgate's part gave him an opportunity of speaking.
"It is absurd," said the chief at last. "Silwood belongs to one of the best
firms in London. His partner, Eversleigh, stands at the head of his profession.
You saw him at the inquest." "Yes; he sat beside Miss Thornton. I thought it
rather strange that she should be present at the inquest, but it was evident she
was much attached to Mr. Eversleigh in a daughterly way. They say she is engaged
to his son." "Well, Westgate, how does that fit in with your theories about
Silwood, Eversleigh's partner?" "Not very well, I admit, but we are only making
guesses and trying to piece things out a bit. And I have not yet told you all
that is in my mind." "Go on," said the editor, as Westgate looked at him for
permission. "I paid very careful attention to the statement made by Inspector
Gale. Now, he's not a great detective, but he's shrewd." The chief nodded
assent. "In his statement, Gale never once spoke as if he thought Silwood was
dead." "What do you say?" cried the other, aroused at last. "Did not speak as if
he thought Silwood was dead! By Jove, that's a horse of another colour." In a
flash he saw that, if Silwood was not dead, then the theories of Westgate were
likely to become substantialities. "Gale wanted an open verdict; he actually
recommended the jury to bring one in. He spoke of the murder being the work of
either Silwood or the mysterious workman--that was before the medical men
knocked the idea of murder into thin air--Gale was not prepared for that, I'll
swear--but he never once spoke of Silwood as if he thought of Silwood as dead. I
noticed that most particularly. Now, to go on with our supposings," said
Westgate, with even greater eagerness than he already exhibited, "let us see
where we are. Silwood is announced to have died of cholera at some outlandish
place in the north of Italy. Perhaps he did, and perhaps he didn't. Say he did
not, and that the whole thing is a plant, a put-up job?" Westgate paused
abruptly, and looked at his chief. "Of course, I see your point," responded the
editor. "You would say, following out your theories, that after locking the dead
body of Thornton into his room, Silwood went to Italy, and has somehow or other
had a false announcement of his death sent to England, hoping in this way to
cover up his tracks effectually. But, once more, Westgate, my boy, where is the
motive for all this astonishing business?" "That, I confess, I do not know. But
if Silwood is alive, why then, he is to be found----"

He broke off and gazed suggestively at the other. "And you are the man to find
him! Eh, is that it?" asked the editor, as quick as lightning. "If you say the
word!" Perceval, chief of the _Call_, leaned back in his chair, lost in debate
within himself for a minute. As a rule, it did not take nearly so long as that
for him to make up his mind. "All right," he said. "You can go. First, of
course, you will go to this place in Italy and ascertain if Silwood died, was
buried, and all the rest of it. That may be the end of your search; but if it is
not, why then go ahead, Westgate. You'll start without delay, and let me know as
soon as possible what you are doing." And Westgate went from the presence of his
chief, rejoicing exceedingly on being sent on a mission after his own heart. It
was therefore more than annoying that almost the first person he saw on his
arrival in Genoa was Sub-inspector Brydges, Gale's under-study at Scotland Yard.
As soon as he saw him he guessed that Gale had despatched his subordinate to
Italy, to make inquiries about Silwood's death, and a brief conversation with
the officer, whom he often met and knew perfectly, made this a certainty.
Brydges made no secret of his errand. He had already wired Gale that he was
satisfied Silwood was dead, and had been buried at Camajore, just as the
inspector had been informed by the Eversleighs. And he saw no reason for
concealing this from Westgate, after they had had some talk together in which
both of them, metaphorically speaking, put their cards, or most of them, on the
table. "You can take it from me," concluded Brydges, "that Mr. Silwood is as
dead--as dead as Queen Anne." But Westgate was not satisfied. So he went to
Camajore, saw the Syndic, the doctor, the nurses, and every one besides from
whom he could get any information. The result was always the same. Silwood had
died. The polite Syndic even took him to see the mound of earth under which lay
Silwood's remains. "It was no good?" asked the chief of Westgate on his return
to the office of the _Call_. "No good at all," said Westgate, much crestfallen.
CHAPTER XVIII

Upon the Eversleighs the verdict at the inquest had various effects. Mrs.
Eversleigh had been completely upset by the discovery of the body of Morris
Thornton in the private rooms of Silwood, her husband's partner, but she
recovered quickly after the verdict, which dispelled a great multitude of
nameless fears that had sprung up within her mind. The presence of Kitty at the
inquest had been entirely her own idea, and it had required courage of an almost
desperate sort to carry it out. Her lover, seeing the strain the girl was
putting on herself, tried to dissuade her from going, but she bravely persisted.
When the verdict was given, and she witnessed the relief it afforded her
friends, she felt far more than repaid. At the same time, the tragedy which
closed her father's life lay heavy upon her. What helped her most to bear it was
Gilbert's love and unfailing sympathy. And on the girl herself all these strange
and painful events resulted in materially deepening and strengthening her
character. Hitherto anything of the kind had been far removed from her. With
regard to Gilbert Eversleigh, he knew not what to conclude, as all attempts on
his part to reason out the mystery of Stone Buildings invariably ended in
confusion. He told himself that the secret of the affair was never likely to be
revealed, and was not sure if he were glad or sorry this should be the case. Yet
at times he had an uneasy feeling that perhaps, after all, there was more to
come. On the benumbed mind, on the half-paralyzed faculties, of Francis
Eversleigh the verdict for a while acted like a charm; for a short time its
effect on him was little short of magical. He had believed that Cooper Silwood
had murdered Morris Thornton; what he alone knew made the deed only too
probable. To find, then, that there had been no murder was a relief to him
beyond all words to describe. For a few days it nearly made a man of him. He saw
that much was dark regarding the death of his old friend and client, and he was
absolutely certain that in some way or other Silwood was mixed up in it; but to
know that his partner had not actually been guilty of the blackest crime in the
calendar had a beneficial influence on him. The sanguine side of his nature,
long overshadowed, now began to assert itself; he even whispered to himself that
it was possible his ruin might be averted after all. At first he feared that the
standing of the firm might be so gravely compromised by the events which had
taken place that its position would be rendered hopeless by the withdrawal of
their business by its clients; but, when then they took no steps in this
direction, the elasticity of his mind asserted itself more and more. As a matter
of fact, a great deal of sympathy was expressed for him; several of his clients,
indeed, went out of their way to assure him of their undiminished confidence and
regard. No one for an instant suspected there was anything wrong with the firm.
The death of Thornton was looked upon as an inexplicable fatality, that of
Silwood as another. In these reassuring circumstances he took heart of grace,
plucked up courage, and said to himself that he must make a decided change in
his own habits and methods, and must no longer be easy-going, careless, and
unsystematic, but must work doubly hard, and do whatever lay in his power to
save the situation. But a man's character is not changed in a day, and Francis
Eversleigh, despite his brave resolutions, was, at bottom, the same Francis
Eversleigh. And with all the heart in the world to retrieve lost ground, it was
hardly possible for him to do it, even if his affairs had been in a different
position. His most pressing duty, he knew, was to make that examination into the
business of his firm which he had purposed making earlier. One morning towards
the end of the week in which the verdict was given, he came to his office
determined to commence a thorough overhauling of his accounts, but his innate
weakness prevented him from persevering. And, in addition to the slackness
habitual to him, there was another reason that kept him back. And this reason
was Williamson. Had Eversleigh been a strong man, he would have made the death
of his partner an excuse for this examination--so natural an excuse, in truth,
that Williamson would have thought nothing of it. But he had not got very far in
examining the books when he became aware that the head-clerk was following all
he did with suspicious interest. The mere fact that Eversleigh was manifesting
unusual activity was enough to excite surprise in Williamson. The first shock
which the returning complacency of the solicitor received came from the thought
that perhaps Williamson had a glimmering of the truth. Then Eversleigh could not
do much in the way of investigation without referring to Williamson for
information. In any case, Eversleigh saw with fatal distinctness, that if this
process were continued, the result could be no other than to put Williamson in
possession of the whole circumstances of the firm. Conscious of this, his good
resolves suffered eclipse, and he once more fell back on the desperate policy of
letting things drift whither they would. But, for a week or two, matters at 176,
New Square, Lincoln's Inn, went on as if nothing out of the common had happened,
or was likely to happen. Francis Eversleigh, his son Ernest, the head-clerk
Williamson, and the other clerks, occupied their accustomed seats in their
accustomed rooms. People came and went as usual; deeds were prepared, documents
drawn up, and all the machinery of the office seemed to be in excellent running
order. No shadow of approaching doom darkened the firm's doors. Still,
Eversleigh knew that he could not continue his policy of drifting beyond a
certain point. It was part of his unescapable misfortune that the severest
pressure on him came in one way or another from members of his own unsuspecting
family. In the first place, it was necessary to get another partner in place of
Silwood. This, on various pretexts, which gave him delay, he put off. He knew
that Ernest must expect to be taken into partnership at this juncture when a
suitable opportunity presented itself. But to make Ernest a partner meant
involving the young man in the ruin of the firm--if ruin came, and Eversleigh in
his heart now believed that it was inevitable--and he was minded not to do this
if it could be helped. But it was difficult for him to resist the pressure
brought to bear upon him. His wife spoke to him of Ernest, but he managed to
quiet her with the promise that before long the matter would be satisfactorily
arranged. And this was the easier, inasmuch as the poor lady, who had seen the
improvement in her husband's state of health after the verdict, believed Ernest
had only to wait a few weeks and all would be well. But the improvement in
Francis Eversleigh's bodily and mental health was only, could be only temporary.
Already drifting like a rudderless ship, he might any moment founder on the
rocks. Deeply involved in a course of equivocation and deceit, to which there
could be but one end, unless some miracle occurred, the necessity of continuing
in it, added to the other circumstances of his situation, soon changed the
transient brightness of his spirits into the gloom of that settled and terrible
melancholy which had descended upon him before. In vain he strove to fight
against it, to overcome it; his efforts were utterly useless. The most serious
things he had to consider were the Thornton Estate and the Silwood Estate. With
regard to the latter, he well knew there was no such thing as a Silwood Estate
at all, but he deemed it essential for the sake of keeping up appearances to
make a pretence that there was such an estate--at least, until it became evident
there was none. Here the "law's delays," of which he took full advantage,
assisted him; but then there was Williamson endlessly curious and prying. Some
of the questions he put to his principal were hard to answer, and drove
Eversleigh to the verge of madness. Silwood's room in the office, the japanned
box--always excepting the secret cavity of which no one knew--the whole office,
and finally Silwood's chambers in Stone Buildings, now free from the embargo of
the law, had been carefully searched for the will of the dead solicitor; but no
will had been found. Williamson openly said that the absence of a will in the
case of a man who must have been rich, and who was a lawyer to boot, was a most
singular thing. Undoubtedly it was this that suggested to the head-clerk
something of the actual fact, namely, that there was a screw loose with respect
to the financial position of the firm. But, as before, he had nothing definite
to go on, and he never dreamed that the affairs of the house were in the
desperate condition they really were. But it was the Thornton Estate which
troubled Eversleigh most of all. Gilbert, as the affianced husband of Kitty,
spoke to his father soon after the inquest about Morris Thornton's property, and
asked him if Thornton's will was deposited in the office, or if the agents in
Canada had it. Francis knew there was a will in the office, and was tolerably
sure no other was in existence, but Gilbert's query gave him a chance of
standing him off on the whole subject for a considerable time. He snatched at it
eagerly. "We have a will of his," he said to his son, "but it was executed a
good many years ago. I am, in the circumstances in which you stand towards
Kitty, betraying no confidence when I tell you that by that will he left
everything of which he was possessed to her. But it is quite possible there may
be a later will. That is a matter for inquiry. It will certainly be necessary
for us to wait till we hear from the agents in British Columbia. They have been
apprized by cable and by letter of Mr. Thornton's death, and they must have seen
something of it in the papers--the noise of it has gone round the world. But we
must not move until we have heard from them. In the event of its being
reasonably sure that there is no other will, we will, of course, submit the one
we have to probate as soon as may be. I don't think we can do more at present."
"I understand," said Gilbert; "you will just observe the usual routine. I
suppose it will be some weeks, perhaps a month or two, before anything further
can be done. Still, I imagine you can get all the affairs of his that are in
your hands into the best order." "Oh," said Eversleigh, with an attempt at
lightness, "that is all right. Mr. Silwood had charge of them, and now I have."
"I have no doubt, sir, they are all right," said Gilbert, unsuspiciously. "Yes,
yes. I should say in a month or six weeks we can go to probate, but it will
depend, of course, upon what we hear from Vancouver. You may be sure there will
be no unnecessary delay." "I am certain of that," assented Gilbert, readily,
unvisited by the slightest inkling of his father's state of mind. Similar
pretexts were used by Eversleigh in dealing with Ernest and Williamson. And so a
little time was gained, but it was to very small purpose. Once more the strain
on him was fast becoming past endurance. A fortnight, three weeks, went by, and
Eversleigh had relapsed altogether into his former condition of deepest
dejection, to the alarm of his wife and relatives, who wondered what in the
world could account for it. But though he had gained respites in the matters
that disquieted him most seriously, he knew that at most and best they were but
respites, and likely to be short ones. He saw the day of reckoning drawing
nearer and nearer; that it should come in all probability through his son
Gilbert and Kitty, whom he loved as his own child, was an aggravation of his
sufferings. It had been the custom of the Eversleighs to betake themselves to
the seaside during the month of August, but this year, because of all that had
happened, it had not been observed. Francis Eversleigh was entreated by his
family to take a brief holiday, but he declined on the plea there was too much
work at the office. He, on the other hand, besought his wife to go away for a
change, but she would not, with the result that the Eversleighs and Kitty stayed
on at Surbiton. It was now that Kitty, more than all the rest, showed her
affection for him by devoting herself assiduously to his comfort in the most
marked manner. The girl was fond of him for his own sake, and was he not
Gilbert's father? In many little ways she tried to cheer him, and to drive away
the dark shadow that enveloped him. And all these loving attentions were so many
fresh stabs to the miserable man. As the days ran on, Eversleigh was a prey to
constant apprehensions; he was haunted by the dread, from moment to moment, of
something happening which would lead to exposure. And come it did, but from an
unexpected quarter. It came in the form of a demand for a large sum of money,
and it came from Harry Bennet, a man whom Eversleigh had almost forgotten,
particularly as Harry had for some time been a stranger at Ivydene. This demand
meant ruin. CHAPTER XIX

The demand from Bennet was contained in a short letter, and the sum he asked for
was ten thousand pounds. With a curt explanation that a horse on which he had
put a great deal of money had disappointed him, he said it was now necessary for
him to have this amount immediately. He went on to say that he knew they, his
solicitors, had no ready money of his in their hands, but they would undoubtedly
be able to advance it on the security of Beauclerk Mansions, which he directed
them to sell. However, to sell them to the best advantage might take some time.
Would they, therefore, anticipate the proceeds of the sale to the extent of the
sum asked for, and repay themselves afterwards when the sale was effected? He
was sure that the Mansions would fetch far more than ten thousand pounds. Though
the period had been marked by events so important as to cause it to seem of
considerable length, but a few weeks in reality had elapsed since Harry Bennet
had proposed to and been rejected by Kitty Thornton. Like all the world, Bennet
was not ignorant of what had happened in the Eversleigh circle, but he was
completely absorbed by his turf speculations. He had not quite forgotten his
purpose of being revenged on Gilbert, but for the time it slumbered. After
Goodwood, all through the month of August, Bennet followed the round of race-
meetings with unimpaired zest; sometimes he was successful in his bets, but far
more frequently he was a heavy loser. He had soon spent the considerable sum he
had made during his Goodwood campaign, and now was hard pressed for funds. He
had already managed to dissipate the whole of his once extensive patrimony, with
the exception of the large block of flats called Beauclerk Mansions, which he
now told his solicitors to put on the market. In ordinary circumstances there
would have been no difficulty in getting an immediate advance on the property,
which was worth far more than ten thousand pounds, as Bennet said. But Cooper
Silwood had changed all that. Williamson, who now watched, as a cat a mouse,
Eversleigh as he had watched Silwood, had put the letter into his principal's
hand with the remark that it was such a pity Mr. Bennet was ruining himself; he
seemed bent on going headlong to destruction! Francis Eversleigh merely nodded,
read the letter, and said dully that he would attend to the matter himself
presently. At first he was not without hope that all was well, and that the
advance could be procured. But a brief examination showed him that Beauclerk
Mansions no longer stood in Bennet's name--they had been sold during the
preceding year, as he shortly discovered, by Silwood. Amongst other things, this
of course meant that Silwood had forged Bennet's signature. But, at the moment,
Eversleigh did not stop to think of it; the one damning fact which stood forth
with frightful distinctness was that Beauclerk Mansions were already sold. "What
am I to do?" groaned Eversleigh. He considered if there was any way by which he
could raise the money; but ten thousand pounds is a large sum, even to a rich
man, when it has to be put down in cold cash. Still, the credit of the firm was
unimpaired, and for a few brief moments Eversleigh permitted himself the luxury
of imagining his bankers would advance the amount. But he knew they would not do
so without security, and he was certain he had none to offer. Silwood had taken
care of that. "What am I to do? In Heavens name, what am I to do?" Eversleigh
asked himself, while his heart seemed to be contracting under the unrelenting
grip of a hand of iron. Ruin, black ruin! It was coming very near, very near!
And worse than ruin. Infamy! Again, as often before, he saw the convict's cell,
the desolate home, the wife and children whom he loved for ever disgraced. The
cold sweat of terror, of despair, stood on the brows of the wretched man, who
shook and trembled as with palsy. He had a swooning sense that he was standing
in the midst of a dissolving world, a wreck amidst a myriad of wrecks all
whirling on to some dark abyss. He felt as if his brain were giving way under
these repeated shocks; then a merciful blankness and vacuity of thought and
impression suddenly descended upon him. Williamson, coming into the room later,
found Eversleigh in a faint stretched across the table. The head-clerk regarded
his principal curiously; then he proceeded, before attempting to resuscitate
Eversleigh, to look carefully over the papers lying on the table. Amongst them,
however, he saw nothing that was of a specially suspicious character, unless it
was Bennet's letter. Having satisfied himself on this point, Williamson next
endeavoured to revive his master. "I am afraid you're trying to do too much," he
observed to Eversleigh, when the latter had recovered. "Now that Mr. Silwood is
gone, your work is doubled." "Oh, I'm all right now; it was just a passing
weakness," replied Eversleigh. Then he noticed Bennet's letter and glancing from
it to Williamson, said, "I must not forget to see about getting the money as
soon as possible for Mr. Bennet. I don't suppose there will be much trouble
about getting it. But it will take a day or two to arrange." "In the mean time,"
asked Williamson, "shall I look out the deeds of the property?" "No," replied
Eversleigh, with a shiver, which he tried to hide successfully; "there will be
time enough for that when I have got the advance arranged for." "Yes, sir; but
should not a notice of the sale be drawn up at once, and the matter otherwise
put in shape?" "I am not without hope," said Eversleigh, slowly, "that there
may, after all, be no necessity to sell the Mansions. It's a fine property, and
it would be a good thing if Mr. Bennet could keep it. A mortgage for the ten
thousand may be sufficient. I'll mention that when I write Mr. Bennet to-day."
Williamson bowed and retired, mutely asking himself what was the particular
thing or reason that had so affected his principal as to cause him to faint.
Could it be, in any way, he wondered, connected with Bennet? No; on reflection,
he thought it could not be that, for Eversleigh's references to the matter had
been quite natural. Yet the head-clerk opined there must be some reason. "I
believe," he told himself, after long consideration, "the best course for me to
pursue would be to resign and get out of it all." But he did not resign. That
afternoon Eversleigh wrote Bennet a reply in which he stated the loan Bennet
required would doubtless be obtained very soon, but two or three days might
elapse before the preliminaries were concluded. Then he expressed the hope that
a mortgage on the Mansions for ten thousand pounds might be enough to extricate
Bennet from his difficulties, and in that case the sale need not be proceeded
with. But if the Mansions must be sold, he trusted plenty of time for
advertising would be allowed, otherwise they might have to be disposed of at a
considerable sacrifice. In a word, it was exactly the kind of letter a solicitor
who had nothing behind in his mind, would write a client in Bennet's position.
Here, again, Eversleigh was playing for a respite; but here, again, he did not
deceive himself--he knew that the end was fast approaching. The bitterness of
death took hold of him. When he went home that evening he scarcely touched any
food. As soon as dinner was over, he rose from the table, and, saying he would
go out for a walk by the river, left Ivydene. For a long time he paced up and
down in a great agony of mind. Three courses were open to him. One was to go on
as long as possible--till the crash came. The second was to file his petition in
bankruptcy, in which case exposure was inevitable. The third lay before him--in
the broad bosom of the river gliding past him; a plunge, and all would be over.
The last, as a final solution of all his difficulties, had a strong attraction.
It seemed so easy, and called for so small an effort. There was a fascination in
the flowing water, in its softly murmurous motion. He looked at the river, and
then dared not look longer. It seemed to cry to him, "Come to me! come to me!"
Then he strode away from it into the high-road; but it drew him back again, for
still he heard it calling, calling, "Come to me! come to me!" Moving out of the
shadows of the trees on the terrace, he walked slowly, listening to that
sinister voice, while he looked at the dark spaces of the water where the river
lay in its deepest pools. But as he walked, still within the shadows, he came
upon a pair of lovers, and he stopped to watch them. The lovers were his son
Gilbert and Kitty Thornton. Their faces looked forward along the path, and they
did not see the man standing in the shadows. The girl leaned lightly on
Gilbert's arm, and was speaking low and softly to him. As she uttered the words,
Gilbert patted the little hand that rested on his arm. On Kitty's face was
something that had not been there a month or two before, and which now imparted
to it a touch of gravity. Perhaps her face was just a little sad. And yet she
was not feeling sad, for the man in the shadows heard her say--

"Oh, Gilbert, it is good to be in love! Life now would not be worth living
without love." A passing boat attracted the attention of the pair, and they
stood to observe it. Behind them was Francis Eversleigh. "I feel as if I could
not exist without you now, Gilbert," said the girl, moving on again. "Nor I
without you, darling," answered Gilbert, tenderly. Then in silence they went on
their way. When they were out of hearing, Francis Eversleigh heaved a great
sigh, and followed them with tottering steps. The siren voice of the river had
died out from his ears; it called him no longer. "I must struggle on to the
end," he said, and returned to his house. About noon next day, Bennet, who had
pressing reasons for getting at once the ten thousand pounds he had asked for,
looked in at 176, New Square, Lincoln's Inn, and requested to see Francis
Eversleigh. "How are you, Harry?" inquired Eversleigh, when he saw him. Bennet
had not seen the other for a considerable time, and he was immensely struck by
the altered appearance of the solicitor, so he answered that he was very well,
but regretted to notice that Mr. Eversleigh appeared to be in poor health.
"Well," said Eversleigh; "you have no doubt heard I've had much of a painful
nature--Mr. Silwood's death and Mr. Thornton's--to try me recently. I have felt
these blows very keenly." "Of course you would," responded Bennet. "About this
money, Mr. Eversleigh, I am sorry to trouble you, but I must have it at once."
"At once!" "Yes, to-day if possible." "It's not possible." "Then to-morrow. I
should like you to push on with the sale of Beauclerk Mansions. I do not desire
a mortgage on the property. It must be sold out-right." "But, Harry----"

"Pray spare me, Mr. Eversleigh. I know you wish to expostulate with me, and I
know the kindness which inspires you to do so, but I have quite made up my mind.
Can I have the money to-morrow?" "I'm afraid not, Harry. It's not so very easy
to raise so large a sum in a day or two--there are all sorts of formalities, you
know." "It ought not to be difficult, surely. These Kensington properties are
first-rate and should find ready purchasers. And Beauclerk Mansions are in the
best situation too. I am certain they must be in splendid order, for I never
receive complaints now from the tenants. You remember that two or three years
ago the tenants often sent me complaints direct instead of writing to you. Well,
there has been nothing of the sort for a long while. I know Mr. Silwood was a
splendid manager. What a pity it is you lost him! I haven't been near Beauclerk
Mansions for many a month--no need, you know, thanks to Mr. Silwood's ability. I
am sorry to lose the property, but go it must. I suppose it will realize thirty
or forty thousand, won't it?" "I dare say it will." "Then an advance of ten
thousand should be easy to get." "Yes, yes," agreed Eversleigh; "but it will
take a few days." "I must have it to-morrow, sir--to-morrow. I cannot wait any
further than that." "Well, I'll do what I can," said Eversleigh, with a choking
gasp; "I'll do what I can." "I'm certain you will be able to manage it," said
Bennet, rising and going to the door. There he stopped and turned to Eversleigh.
"Do you know," he said; "I think I'll run down on the Underground to High
Street, and take a look at Beauclerk Mansions--a last fond look," he added with
a grin and disappeared. At four o'clock in the same day he was back again at
Lincoln's Inn, and there was a strange expression on his face as he climbed the
stairs to Francis Eversleigh's room. CHAPTER XX

As Bennet entered the room, Eversleigh looked at him and forced a smile, but he
turned livid when he observed the other's aspect. There was no smile on Bennet's
face, but something disquieting and even threatening appeared upon it.
Eversleigh, seeing it, said to himself that the expected day of reckoning had
indeed come. His first feeling was almost one of relief, but that soon gave way
to a determination to make as much of a stand as he could. He tried to encourage
himself by thinking that Bennet had always been a friend of his and of his
family. Unaware that Kitty had preferred Gilbert to Bennet, and of the
sentiments Bennet now had with respect to his son, he had some hope that it
might be possible to "do something with Harry," as he phrased it vaguely to
himself. "Well, Harry, back again?" he said, trying with a prodigious effort to
speak calmly. "I did not anticipate seeing you so soon." "Yes, Mr. Eversleigh,"
remarked Bennet, bluntly; "I have returned pretty quickly, because I desired to
see you immediately with a view to asking you for an explanation of a
circumstance which puzzles me extremely. Still, I dare say you can clear the
matter up. It is about Beauclerk Mansions. I have just come from them this very
minute." As Bennet had come in Eversleigh had stood up; he now sank into his
chair. Harry remained on his feet, gazing at the solicitor, and there was a note
of anger in his voice as he addressed Eversleigh. "An explanation, Harry," said
Eversleigh, waving Bennet to take a seat beside him. "About what?" "Well, Mr.
Eversleigh," said Bennet, drily, "when I left you this morning I told you I
would take a run down to the Mansions to have a last look at them; do you
remember?" "You made some little jest of it," returned Eversleigh, nervously.
"Yes; I was trying to appear light-hearted about it. I was not light-hearted
really. But that does not matter in the slightest degree. I did go to the
Mansions----"

Bennet stopped, as he was in doubt what to say next. "You went to Beauclerk
Mansions?" said Eversleigh; "and----"

"I'll tell you as exactly as I can what took place. On the pretext of inquiring
if there was a flat to be let, I got into conversation with one of the porters.
I saw the man did not know who I was. He told me there were two or three
desirable flats vacant; would I care to look over them? I don't know quite why I
did it, but I thought I would take a glance at the vacant flats, keeping the
porter in talk the while. You follow me?" asked Harry, breaking off as he saw
the eyes of the solicitor wandered over the room. Eversleigh was listening, but
not carefully; he guessed well enough what Bennet would tell him, and he was
casting about for some appeal that would touch Bennet and induce him to stay his
hand. "Oh yes," he responded; "I am following you perfectly, Harry." "As I went
over the flats with the porter," Bennet resumed, "I noticed the property was in
very good order, and I remarked to the man that it must be well managed and be
very valuable. The porter replied that the property was well managed, especially
since the new management had taken it up. I was surprised, as you may imagine,
to hear of a new management, but I naturally supposed that you or rather Mr.
Silwood, had made the change. I asked how long the new management had been in
power, and was told it had been for about a year." Bennet paused, gazed at
Eversleigh, and repeated, "About a year." "About a year," said Eversleigh,
mechanically. "The porter went on to say," continued Bennet, "that he understood
the property had been in new hands for that time, and that was why it was in
such good order--the new broom was sweeping cleaner than the old. When he spoke
of the property being in new hands, I thought it more than a bit odd, and I
asked him in whose hands the property now was. He gave me the name of a firm of
house-agents of whom I have heard before, but not in connection with your firm,
Mr. Eversleigh. This surprised me again, and I put the question if he knew who
was the owner of the property, and he answered that it belonged to a company,
named 'Modern Mansions, Limited.' When he said this, I looked at him in
amazement, but I saw that he was in earnest, and stated what he believed to be
true." Again Bennet stopped and fixed his gaze on Eversleigh, but the solicitor
said not a word--he opened his lips as if to speak, but remained silent. "You do
not speak, Mr. Eversleigh!" cried Bennet. "Well, let me finish my story. He had
told me that the property belonged to 'Modern Mansions, Limited,' and he so
surprised me that I blurted out that I thought he must be wrong, and that I had
understood it was owned by a Mr. Bennet, whose father had been the original
proprietor. 'No,' said the man; 'it did belong to him, but he sold it to the
company just about twelve months ago!'" Bennet paused once more, as if to give
Eversleigh an opportunity of making a remark, but he did not avail himself of
it. "Still you do not speak!" cried Bennet. "But to finish with my yarn. I felt
positively certain that the porter was making a big mistake, as I knew I had not
sold Beauclerk Mansions, but I thought I would carry my inquiries a step
further. Therefore, keeping up the pretence of wanting a flat, I asked the
porter if he could get me a copy of the agreement or form of lease for a flat;
no doubt, I said, there was a regular form to be had in the office of the
company. That was so, he thought; would I go with him to the manager's office?
Well, I did go, and I got the form; here it is," said Bennet, taking a printed
paper from his pocket and placing it before Eversleigh. "Not that there was any
need of that as proof the Mansions were mine no longer," Bennet continued. "I
had a short talk with the manager, and I soon had no doubt about it. Now, Mr.
Eversleigh, you have heard what I have said. I demand an explanation from you.
What have you to say?" Eversleigh looked at Bennet, then at the ceiling, then at
the floor, but could not find speech. "Have you nothing to say? What meaning,
Mr. Eversleigh, am I to place on your silence? Why don't you speak?" Hitherto
Bennet, believing like all the rest of the world that there could be nothing
wrong with so eminent a firm as Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, had supposed
there might be some explanation of these curious circumstances; he was
suspicious, but imagined there might be a possible justification. What he could
not understand was why Eversleigh had written and spoken to him as if the
Mansions were still his. Eversleigh's silence now told him quite unmistakably
there was something very wrong about the whole matter. "Why don't you speak, Mr.
Eversleigh?" he asked, roughly, springing from his chair and towering over the
solicitor. "Harry," began Eversleigh, brokenly, shrinking before the angry eyes
of his client, "Harry, your property, as you know, was in Mr. Silwood's
department of the office. Mr. Silwood----"

But Eversleigh paused tongue-tied; there was a slackening of the muscles of his
face. He seemed on the point of collapse. As Bennet regarded the solicitor the
expression of his face become horrible; all the evil of his life seemed suddenly
stamped upon it; it was cruel, fierce, brutal, devilish. He saw that Eversleigh
had no explanation to offer; he realized that he had been the victim of fraud,
and that his property was gone--it had been stolen from him by his solicitors!
As this came home to him, his mood was little short of murderous, and it must be
admitted there was some excuse for him. "Silwood's death," he said harshly,
"does not matter to me in the least. He is dead, and it is you that I have to
deal with. What has become of my property?" Harry's rough tones made Eversleigh
shrink still more, but he managed to speak. "Mr. Silwood is dead," he quavered,
wishing the while that he was dead too. "But his death is so recent that there
has not been sufficient time to go into all his affairs." "I care nothing for
his affairs. What has become of my property? Tell me that." "You must know,
Harry, that Mr. Silwood's death has made a great difference to me." "It has
nothing to do with me. What has become of my property?" "It is possible," said
Eversleigh, weakly, "that there may have been things in his department that are
slightly irregular. No doubt," he went on more firmly, "he thought he was acting
in your best interests when he sold your property." "Sold my property," repeated
Bennet, with a fierce snarl. "If he sold it, what did he sell it for? And where
is the money?" Eversleigh was mute. "Again you have nothing to say! Now I ask
you just one question. Did you know, or did you not know, when you wrote me
yesterday that you would procure the advance of ten thousand pounds on the
property, that it had been sold already? Answer me!" Bennet's eyes blazed with
rage and menace as he thundered the last words at Eversleigh. Eversleigh partly
rose from his chair, clutching as he did so at his collar; then he sat down with
a loud groan, covered his face with his hands, and broke into sobs. Bennet stood
over him and shook him violently. "You did know," he shouted. "You knew all the
while that my flats had been sold. Do you know what you are? You are a thief and
a swindler--that's what you are!" "Harry," pleaded Eversleigh, feebly. "Don't
call me 'Harry,'" replied Bennet. "You have lied to me and stolen from me. I
must think," he wound up, as he released his hold of the other and walked up and
down the floor. Meanwhile Eversleigh's sobs subsided, and he ventured to look at
Bennet. Bennet noticed the glance at once. "I believe," said he, "if I did what
I ought to do, I should have you arrested at once for fraud; but I don't see
that that would do me any good." "Harry," said Eversleigh, haltingly, "I was
your father's friend, and I was never unkind to you." "Never unkind to me! What
have you done with my money?" "I never had a penny of it." "Oh, you put the
blame on Silwood! He is dead, and cannot deny the charge." "I never had anything
to do with selling your property, Harry. I did not know it had been sold until a
day or two ago--until yesterday, in fact." "But you did know when you wrote me.
You lied about it." "I did," acknowledged Eversleigh. "I could not help it.
Consider how I was situated!" "You were to get me the ten thousand pounds, and
to pretend to sell the Mansions?" "That was it." "You can get me the ten
thousand?" "No; that was a pretence too. I cannot get you the money." "Worse and
worse!" exclaimed Bennet. "What has been done with the money?" "Mr. Silwood
might have told you, I cannot. I had none of it, I again assure you," protested
Eversleigh. Bennet now sat down. "Let us understand each other," he said. "So
far as I make the matter out, the position is this: you state Mr. Silwood
disposed of my property and appropriated the proceeds--is that it?" Eversleigh
bowed. "What do you intend doing?" "Nothing. What can I do?" Bennet sat very
still, thinking what was the best course for him to take. "Do you suppose," he
asked at length, "that Mr. Silwood was guilty of other--irregularities?" "How
can I tell? For many years Mr. Silwood attended to all the financial business of
the firm, and I never concerned myself with it at all. And now I can only find
out very slowly and gradually how matters stand." "Have you no capital? No means
of your own?" "No. I have always lived up to my income--you know how I have
lived, Harry, for you have often shared my hospitality," said Eversleigh,
appealingly. "Oh, your hospitality be ----!" cried Bennet, rudely. "How does
that help either you or me now? If anything, it makes matters worse. What I
ought to do is just what I said. I should go to another solicitor, tell him how
the case stands, and in a short time you would be in prison. But what good will
that be to me? I must think everything over very carefully. I shall not be
precipitate." Eversleigh held up his head a little. "Thank you, Harry," he said.
"I'm not thinking of you," rejoined Harry, brutally. "One word, however. How
many people know about my property being disposed of--in this irregular manner
by Silwood?" asked Bennet, sarcastically. "No one but myself." "Can I depend on
that statement?" "Absolutely." "Well, I shall take no action to-day. I am going
home now, and to-night I'll make up my mind. I shall see you again to-morrow,
and tell you what is my intention." And Bennet strode out of the room. As he
descended the stairs he almost cannoned against Gilbert Eversleigh, who was
going up to see his father. Bennet hardly returned the salute Gilbert gave him,
but the sight of his successful rival had given him an idea. CHAPTER XXI

"I shall see you again to-morrow, and tell you what is my intention," were the
words with which Bennet had left Eversleigh, and they rang in the ears of the
solicitor like a knell. He knew he was in Bennet's power, and as he thought of
Harry and the character of the young man he told himself it was useless to
expect mercy or even consideration of any kind. "The day of reckoning," he
moaned, "has indeed come." He asked himself if there was any one to whom he
could appeal for assistance in his extremity; but he could think of no one, and
even if such a friend had existed, it would now be too late to appeal to him for
help, because Bennet knew enough--and more than enough--to send him to prison.
This was in his mind when Gilbert, passing up the stairs on which he had
encountered Bennet, came into his father's room. For one moment he had a wild
notion to tell his son everything, but quickly decided against it. "I met Harry
Bennet just now," remarked Gilbert, "and he seemed in a bad humour, to judge
from the glance with which he favoured me. I suppose you have been giving him a
lecture?" Giving Bennet a lecture! The irony of the thing smote Francis
Eversleigh. Again he wondered if he should tell Gilbert everything, and put some
of the burden on the strong shoulders of his son; but no, he could not do it.
And what could Gilbert do to help him? "Oh no," said Eversleigh, in reply to
Gilbert's question; "I did not lecture him. He wanted money at a moment's
notice, and I told him he must wait a little." "I see," responded Gilbert, and
the conversation passed to other topics. When Francis Eversleigh went home to
Ivydene that evening he believed it more than probable that he was going to it
for the last time for many years, as he felt certain Bennet would have him
arrested next day. After a sleepless night of agony and remorse, he took a mute
but infinitely pathetic farewell of the place and the loved ones whose abode it
was, before leaving it. "D'you think you are well enough to go to the office to-
day?" asked his wife, doubtfully. "Yes, dear," he replied, with more than usual
tenderness in his voice. "I'm quite well, and perhaps since Mr. Silwood's death,
I give in too much to business worries; but there is nothing really the matter."
And he embraced her very fondly after he had said this, wondering in his heart
what she would think of him when she knew the truth, as she likely would that
very day. Then he went to meet his fate. His fate proved to be better and worse
than he had expected. The solicitor had scarcely arrived at 176, New Square,
Lincoln's Inn, when Bennet made his appearance. "Well, Harry," said Eversleigh,
timidly, on seeing him. "I have thought this business over," Bennet declared,
"and I have come to a determination. I shall not prosecute you. I shall take no
action in the matter, but there's a condition." Francis Eversleigh could hardly
believe his ears when he heard Bennet's words, "I shall not prosecute you."
Involuntarily he gave a great sigh of relief. But then there was a condition,
Bennet had said. What was it? He was thunderstruck when he heard what it was. "I
am willing not to prosecute you," continued Bennet, coolly, "on one condition,
and on one condition alone. You have acknowledged your guilt, but there is one
way in which you may make good your--debt, let us call it--to me." "Yes?" asked
Eversleigh, as Harry stopped for an instant. "It is the case," said Harry,
speaking sharply, "is it not, that your son Gilbert is engaged to Miss
Thornton?" "Certainly," replied Eversleigh, in a puzzled tone. "You have a great
deal of influence with your son?" "Naturally." "You and he are on the best of
terms--many fathers and sons are not--but you and Gilbert are very good
friends." "Undoubtedly." "If I prosecute you, you will be convicted and
sentenced?" Eversleigh did not answer. "Your conviction," Bennet went on
remorselessly, "will infallibly cover Gilbert with disgrace, to say nothing of
the other members of your family; his career at the Bar will be blighted. Is
that not the case?" Dry-lipped Eversleigh heard, but he could not trust himself
to answer. "Gilbert will be ruined--you know that is so. Now, do you think, with
this hanging over him, he is a proper person to marry Miss Thornton? Of course,
he is not." Eversleigh groaned. "Harry, spare me!" he cried. But Bennet had no
idea of sparing him. "Your son Gilbert must not marry Miss Thornton; you must
prevent him from doing so. Do you understand?" "But this is monstrous, Harry,"
protested Eversleigh; "my influence over Gilbert is not great enough for this."
"If that is so, then so much the worse for you. But not only must you use your
influence with Gilbert, you must also bring it to bear on Miss Thornton. You
must tell her that she must not marry Gilbert. Now, do you understand?" "I
understand," returned Eversleigh, speaking for the first time during the
conversation with some firmness; "but what you wish is impossible. Gilbert and
Miss Thornton love each other. Gilbert is a man, he is not a child, and Miss
Thornton is a woman and not a child either. Is it likely that anything I said to
them would make them break off their engagement?" "Gilbert and Miss Thornton
love each other!" These words were gall and wormwood to Bennet. The sight of
Gilbert the previous afternoon had revived his dormant desire for revenge, and
after much thought he had come to the conclusion to tell Francis Eversleigh that
the price of his silence with regard to the fraudulent sale of Beauclerk
Mansions was that the solicitor must use pressure to get the match broken off,
and not only that, but also to induce the girl to marry him. It was rather a mad
scheme, and if Bennet had really considered it fully he would probably have
decided against suggesting it. It never struck him that he was conniving at
fraud; if it had, he would not have been deterred. He was a headstrong, reckless
man, determined to get his own way, rightly or wrongly, and to get it whatever
happened. "Wait," he said; "I have not finished yet. You must break off the
match. How it is to be done I leave to you. You will find some means of doing
it. The main point is that it be done. There must be no misunderstanding on that
head. But there is more to be said: you must not only break off the match, but
you must forward my suit with Miss Thornton." "Your suit with Miss Thornton!"
cried Eversleigh. "Yes; perhaps you were not aware that I proposed to her, but I
was too late. She had already accepted your son. You never heard that she
rejected me?" "I did not know it." Eversleigh's thoughts went back to that day--
the awful, fateful day in which Silwood had confessed his embezzlements--on
which he had given Gilbert a hint of Bennet's advances to Kitty, and how, at the
time he had given it, life stretched before him bright and fair. He shuddered as
he recalled all that had happened since. Bennet, watching him intently, saw the
shudder that shook the frame of the solicitor, and, not knowing what was passing
through the other's mind, misinterpreted it. "The idea of my proposing to Miss
Thornton makes you shudder, is that it?" he asked fiercely and angrily. "It
becomes you well--you, the cheat, the embezzler, the swindler." Eversleigh
looked at Bennet helplessly. "You disapprove of me, you dare to disapprove of me
for her!" Bennet continued. "Surely I am as good as your son!" he exclaimed with
violence, "the son of a thief!" "Gilbert is as honest as the day," said
Eversleigh, stung into speech. "I know nothing about that," cried Bennet,
scornfully. "But this is all beside the mark. Gilbert is nothing to me; why
should I consider him? He stands between me and Kitty Thornton, and it will be
your part to remove him from my path." "How am I to do it? How am I to do it?"
wailed Eversleigh. Bennet regarded him with contempt. "That lies with you," he
said pitilessly. "I have already made that quite clear. And you must speak to
Miss Thornton and tell her--oh, tell her anything, but tell her that she must
marry me." "Suppose I did tell her that, do you imagine that it would weigh with
her, if it was not backed by some very strong, some overwhelming reason?" asked
Eversleigh, struggling to speak calmly with the young man. "And what reason can
I give? I cannot perform impossibilities. Surely you must admit that?" "I admit
nothing," snarled Bennet viciously. The two men looked at each other;
Eversleigh's face bore a hopeless and beaten expression, Bennet's was savage and
implacable. For a space there was silence between them. On Bennet Eversleigh's
last words had made a certain impression, and he was asking himself if, after
all, his scheme would not work: he felt not the least pity or compassion; but
what if he had indeed set Eversleigh a task beyond his powers to accomplish? As
he conversed with Eversleigh, he saw that what in his own home the previous
evening had seemed a simple enough thing, was not simple at all. He saw that if
Eversleigh, at his bidding, told the lovers that the match must be broken off,
it did not at all follow they would consent--unless they were told that in this
way, and this only, Eversleigh would be delivered from some great and imminent
danger. "Well," he thought, "that is what Eversleigh must do, and for the same
reason Kitty must be brought to consent to marry me." "You will speak to your
son and Miss Thornton to-night?" Bennet said aloud. "To-night!" "Why not? The
sooner the better, surely!" "Harry," said Eversleigh, making a last effort,
"just consider the position." "What else am I doing?" Bennet broke out rudely.
"Have patience a moment, if not for my sake, then for your own. You wish me to
tell Gilbert, whom by the way I shall not see to-night, that he must have his
engagement with Miss Thornton cancelled. Gilbert knows perfectly that his
marriage with Miss Thornton is the thing next my heart, and he will require from
me an explanation. Am I to tell him the truth? And it is the same in Miss
Thornton's case. Am I to tell her the truth also?" "Certainly. Why not, pray?"
asked Bennet, ruthlessly. "I do not believe Gilbert will consent." "He will,
fast enough, to save you; for in saving you is he not saving himself and his
career?" "But Miss Thornton," argued Eversleigh, "is not my child. She is of
age. She is her own mistress. I have no power over her. How can I compel her to
marry you?" Bennet stood in sullen silence. "She would marry me to save you from
a convict's cell," he said at last. "But as I understand you to mean that you
will not speak to her on this matter, I tell you what I'll do. I shall go to her
myself, and tell her all I know. If she consents to marry me, then I shall spare
you; if she refuses--you can guess for yourself what will take place. And this
is my last word," added Bennet, and stalked out of the room. CHAPTER XXII

On leaving Francis Eversleigh, whose feelings at the turn events had taken were
poignant beyond description, Harry Bennet went as fast and as straight to
Surbiton as the train could carry him. As he neared Ivydene, he was visited by
some slight compunctions, but these he soon overcame and thrust out of his mind.
On inquiring if Miss Thornton was at home, he was told by the maid, to whom
Bennet was no stranger, that Miss Thornton and Miss Helen Eversleigh were out,
but were expected in very shortly. Mrs. Eversleigh, however, was in; would he
not come in and see her? But Bennet, who had no wish to see Mrs. Eversleigh,
excused himself and withdrew. He did not go far away, but hung about the house
waiting till the two young ladies should appear. And presently, when they came
into view, Bennet at once went to meet them. When the girls saw him, they beheld
him with very different emotions. There was a smile of welcome on Helen's face,
which showed she was glad to see him again, and that perhaps also she still, in
her heart, was not ill disposed towards him; at the same time, she wondered why
he had not been near Ivydene for so long a time, and this imparted a certain
eagerness to her greeting of him. But Kitty received him coldly. Both the girls
were in deep mourning, and Bennet thought he had never seen Kitty look better.
The coldness of his reception he put down to the grief she must be feeling for
her father, and for an instant he was inclined to doubt if this were the proper
time to speak to her on the subject which had brought him to Surbiton, but his
hesitation was soon over. There was something strange and unnatural in Bennet's
manner as he saluted the girls. So marked was it that even Helen Eversleigh
could not help noticing it. Kitty observed it instantly, and she drew an augury
of evil from it. Since her rejection of the young man she had almost forgotten
his existence, so much had happened in the interval. Now, as she looked at him,
her distrust of him returned. Yet his first words somewhat disarmed her, though
the tone in which they were uttered was hardly what she would have expected. She
saw he was labouring under some strong excitement. "I have not seen you, Miss
Thornton," he said, hoarsely, "for some time, and I had meant to write you a
note of sympathy, but--but--I was so----"

"I understand," said Kitty, as Bennet paused, embarrassed. "It was very sad for
you," remarked Bennet. "Yes," said Kitty, simply. The three were now close to
Ivydene, and Helen Eversleigh invited him to come in. Bennet stopped in the
road, and did not at once reply; the others stopped, too, regarding him
curiously. Then, to the surprise of the girls, Bennet said, addressing Helen
Eversleigh--

"Would you mind leaving us, Miss Eversleigh; there is something I wish to say to
Miss Thornton?" Then he turned to Kitty and observed, gruffly, "It is something
very important. Miss Thornton, or I should not trouble you. Indeed, I have come
on purpose to tell you of it." Kitty bowed gravely, and Helen, greatly
astonished, retired to the house, saying as she went--

"Come in when you have had your talk. You won't be long, I suppose." But neither
of the others answered. "Is it something you have to tell me about my father?"
asked Kitty, who at once supposed that Bennet had in some way or other obtained
information respecting Morris Thornton. "No, Miss Thornton," answered Bennet,
bluntly. "It is about something quite different that I wish to speak to you."
"But if I do not wish to listen to you?" asked Kitty, suddenly alarmed. "You
must," insisted Bennet. "Must!" cried Kitty. "You take a very strange tone. I
shall not listen to you, Mr. Bennet." And she moved a step from him. He strode
beside her, and put his hand roughly on her arm. "I am in earnest," he said, his
eyes gleaming balefully. "You must hear me unless you wish the worst to happen
to those people in there." He waved his hand toward Ivydene. "Miss Thornton,"
Bennet went on, more calmly when he saw the girl gave heed to him, "it is in
your power, and in yours alone, to save your friends, the Eversleighs, from the
gravest disaster." Kitty stared at him, thinking the man must have gone mad. "I
repeat," Bennet continued, "that it is in your power. Miss Thornton--do you
understand?--in your power, to avert a great danger, a terrible disaster, from
the Eversleighs." "I do not understand you in the least," said Kitty. "Will you
please explain yourself?" "You will listen, then?" asked Bennet, tauntingly.
"And you will do well to listen, if you have any regard for these people." "Will
you explain, please?" asked Kitty, impatiently. "Yes; but I shall have to
trouble you to hear rather a long story, but without it you would not
understand." "Go on," Kitty answered. "I must commence by speaking of myself,"
said Bennet. "I had need of a sum of money--ten thousand pounds, and I directed
my solicitors, Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, to get it for me by selling a
property in Kensington called Beauclerk Mansions, which belonged to me--at
least, I believed it belonged to me. I knew that the sale of the property was
not likely to be effected immediately; it had to be advertised, and so on. But I
did want that ten thousand in a hurry. So I wrote the Eversleighs, and, knowing
the Mansions were worth far more than the sum I asked, requested them to make or
procure me an advance of the money, and to repay the loan from the proceeds of
the sale. Do you understand, Miss Thornton?" "Perfectly; though I do not see why
you should imagine it is interesting or important to me," replied Kitty. "I am
coming very quickly now to that," returned Bennet. "I wrote the firm as I have
told you, and received a communication in reply from Mr. Eversleigh, Mr. Francis
Eversleigh, who said that he could not get me the money at once, but would do so
in the course of a few days. But there were reasons for my having it without
delay, so I went to see Mr. Eversleigh, and I saw him this morning." Bennet
paused, and looked meaningly at Kitty; he saw that she was following him
closely. "You saw Mr. Eversleigh, you were saying," she observed. "I saw him,
told him I must have the money, and he put me off, but said there would be as
little delay as possible. With that I had to be content, though I was
disappointed. I had nothing particular to do for the rest of the day, and it
occurred to me to go to Beauclerk Mansions, and take a last look at them. I was
in a bad humour, and the thing fell in with my mood. When I got to the Mansions,
can you guess what I discovered?" "How can I?" inquired Kitty, wonderingly. "The
discovery was an accidental one," Bennet resumed, "but there was no room for
doubt about the matter. I found out that Beauclerk Mansions no longer belonged
to me. They had been sold some twelve months before to a company named 'Modern
Mansions, Limited.'" And now Kitty began to see something of what Bennet was
about to tell her, and she gazed at him apprehensively. "The property had been
sold!" she exclaimed. "Yes; without my authority, and by my own solicitors,
Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh." "Surely, there was some mistake," suggested
the girl. "I thought so myself, at first," responded Bennet, "and I promptly
went to Mr. Eversleigh and asked for an explanation. But, Miss Thornton," he
went on, impressively, "there was no mistake. Mr. Eversleigh put the blame of
the sale on his dead partner, Silwood--that may be true, or it may not, in
either case it is nothing to me--but he confessed that the property had been
sold. No account was ever rendered to me--in a word, the sale was a fraudulent
one. Out of his own mouth, Eversleigh stood convicted of fraud." "I cannot
believe it!" cried Kitty, "there must be some dreadful mistake." "The law, Miss
Thornton, will not call it a mistake. It will call it a crime. I have but to say
the word, and Francis Eversleigh will be arrested, in due course, tried, and
convicted." Kitty stood and faced the man, her eyes full of indignation. "Mr.
Bennet," she said, "I have known Mr. Eversleigh for years, and I cannot credit
what you say." "It is quite natural for you to say so. I could hardly take the
thing in myself at first, but there is not the slightest doubt of the truth of
what I have told you. Francis Eversleigh is in my power, and I make no scruple
in telling you so." Bennet's air, Kitty acknowledged to herself, was not that of
a man who spoke falsely, whatever else it was; she was afraid that he did in
very deed speak the truth. "You do not scruple to tell me this," she said; "why
do you tell me about it at all?" Bennet looked at the beautiful girl, and her
beauty maddened him. "It is because I love you," he said boldly. "Because you
love me! You take a strange way of showing your love. What do you mean?" "I said
that Eversleigh's fate was in my hands; I should have said it was in yours,
Kitty." "In mine?" "Yes, in yours, in your pretty hands, Kitty. You have but to
command me, and, so far as I am concerned, Eversleigh remains a free man. I will
not seek to have him arrested if you tell me not to do so." "And what more, Mr.
Bennet? Is it that your love for me dictates this generosity? Oh, if that be so,
I thank you with all my heart." "I do not want your gratitude, Kitty. I want
you. I will only stay my hand on condition that you promise to marry me. There,
is that plain enough?" "To marry you!" exclaimed Kitty. "You know very well that
I am engaged to Gilbert Eversleigh." "Oh, Gilbert!" said Bennet, contemptuously.
"After what I have told you about his father you would never dream of marrying
him!" Kitty's eyes suddenly blazed. "Take care what you say!" she cried. The
passion in her eyes did not daunt him; on the contrary, he admired her spirit,
and his desire to marry her waxed stronger. "Am I to understand, then," he asked
deliberately, "that you prefer to see Gilbert Eversleigh disgraced, for
disgraced he will be when his father is a convicted felon?" Kitty started; she
felt as if she were in a trap. Bennet saw he had at last made an impression.
"You can ruin Gilbert, too, if you like," he continued; "the fate of both father
and son rests with you." He thought he had said enough, and so was silent. The
girl walking by his side was also silent. If what this man said was true, and
she was afraid it was, what a frightful calamity had suddenly come upon her! Her
heart sank within her, all the sweetness of life and love were on the instant
turned to bitterness and gall. "You can ruin Gilbert," Bennet had said; she
could ruin the man she loved! And Francis Eversleigh, the kindly man, who had
been a father to her! And Mrs. Eversleigh and the others! She could ruin them or
save them--so Bennet had said. Her word would save them! Bennet fancied he knew
the debate which was going on within the girl's breast. At length Kitty came to
a decision. "Do you want an answer now?" she asked. "At once; yes or no?" "You
know that I do not love you?" "I love you, and you will come to love me."
"Never, never!" she cried wildly. Bennet frowned heavily. "You will, you shall,
you must," he vowed. "You cannot force love," said the girl. "Now, Miss Kitty,"
said Bennet, roughly; "I do not wish to discuss that with you. Give me your
answer! Will you marry me, yes or no? Or is Francis Eversleigh to go to prison?"
"If I marry you, how will that protect Mr. Eversleigh?" "I will give him a
receipt in full for whatever his firm owes me. I will give you the receipt, if
you like, and you can give it to him." "Mr. Bennet," said Kitty, "I shall tell
you what I am willing to do. You have told me some strange things; they are so
strange that I find a difficulty in believing them. Yet I am afraid," went on
the girl, honestly, "that they are true. But surely I have a right to ask that
these statements of yours be confirmed. If you will give me till to-morrow--if
you will come then, I will give you my answer." "And pray what will you do in
the mean time?" "I shall speak to Mr. Eversleigh." "Very well," said Bennet,
after a moment's thought. "He will not deny the truth of what I have told you. I
agree. I will be here at noon to-morrow for your decision. Only remember that
the fate of the Eversleighs is in your hands, as I have said, and in yours
alone." And he turned and left her. CHAPTER XXIII

On entering the house, Kitty went at once to her own room, though she knew Helen
Eversleigh would think it strange, perhaps even unkind. "But she will never
imagine why it is," thought the girl; "she will suppose Bennet had something
painful to tell me about my father." Kitty Thornton was a brave woman, and she
had brains as well as courage; she sat down in her room, and deliberately set
herself to consider the situation in which she now found herself. The
conversation with Bennet had occupied but a short while, and she had hardly
realized all it meant for her. Now, sitting there quietly, she went over it
again. On the face of it, what he had told her about Eversleigh seemed
improbable in the extreme, but she recalled the positiveness of his assertions
and the air of truthfulness and certainty with which he had made them. It was
clear to her that Bennet believed he did hold the fate of Eversleigh in his
hands. Then she thought of Francis Eversleigh. In her mind's eye she saw him as
he had appeared to her in her girlhood--handsome, generous, large-hearted,
kindness itself. Her instinct told her that he was not formed of the stuff out
of which the thief and the swindler were made. And she recalled Bennet's words,
"Mr. Eversleigh put the blame of the sale on his dead partner Silwood"--Silwood,
the man in whose chambers her father's body had been found; yes, Kitty had no
doubt whatever that if any one was guilty, he was the criminal. She remembered
Silwood's appearance very well, and she contrasted it with that of Eversleigh,
to the great advantage of the latter. It was incredible that Eversleigh was a
bad man. But though not actually guilty, was he a party to the guilt of Silwood
all along, and therefore guilty in that sense? Or had he discovered what Silwood
had done only after Silwood's death? Well, she must wait until she had heard
what Francis Eversleigh had to say. For, after all, these were minor points. In
all likelihood, she concluded, Eversleigh would confirm Bennet's statements. If
so, what then? And, now, Kitty Thornton had need of all her courage. The fate of
the Eversleighs was in her hands; she could save them, but at what a price! The
sacrifice of her own happiness. She could save them, but only by condemning
herself to misery for the rest of her life. As she sat thinking, thinking of the
wretchedness that must be hers as the wife of Bennet, the poor girl closed her
eyes, as if thus she could shut out that blank and dreary prospect. She had no
illusions as to the nature of the man. In her heart she called him a bully and a
brute, and she knew he was a desperate gambler. Her life with him could be
nothing but one long horror. "I cannot marry him," she said, rebelling against
the harshness and bitterness of the dilemma thrust upon her. "But what then?"
she asked herself. She knew Bennet would keep his word did she refuse to marry
him; Francis Eversleigh would be arrested, and he and his family overwhelmed in
one common ruin. "How can I permit it?" she said. Hitherto she had striven to
keep the thought of her lover, Gilbert, out of her mind, so as to be able to
reason more clearly, but in its background Gilbert had always been. She loved
him with her whole heart, and it was seldom that, consciously or unconsciously,
she was not thinking about him. She had looked forward with pride and joy to
being his wife. And now? Bennet had declared that Gilbert's father's ruin would
be Gilbert's ruin too. And she could save him. "I must, I must," said Kitty,
bravely, but her heart was cold as ice. "Cost me what it may, I must save him
from ruin." She told herself that it was her duty to make this sacrifice for her
lover's sake, and she tried to steel herself to the idea. But when she thought
of the long and bitter years that lay before her as the wife of Harry Bennet,
her courage grew less and less. "I must not think of _that_," she said; "if I
do, I shall break down. I must think, and think only, of saving them from the
ruin which threatens them all." Still the tears would come into her eyes. She
wiped them away, however, and when she went down to dinner showed no traces of
them. Her eyes were suspiciously bright, and the spots of colour on her cheeks
were less brilliant than usual, but her aspect was so little different from what
it generally was that even Helen Eversleigh, who looked at her inquiringly when
they met, did not observe any change in her appearance. Francis Eversleigh was
at the head of the table, and from time to time he shot a quick glance at her.
He had heard from his daughter, Helen, that Bennet had called that afternoon,
and he felt sure Bennet had told the girl all. He expected she would speak to
him on the subject after dinner, and he dreaded it. What would she say to him?
What would she do? What had she said to Bennet? Kitty had always been fond of
Francis Eversleigh, and as she caught one or two of these glances of his, and
knew the secret of his anxiety, she pitied him and smiled at him encouragingly.
Like the other members of the Eversleigh household, she had noticed for weeks
how poorly he had looked. Now, as she sat at table with him she told herself she
knew why it was--he had been carrying in his breast the knowledge of his
partner's crime. She felt so sorry for him, that for a time she almost forgot
how black her own future was likely to be. After dinner she and Eversleigh
withdrew from the dining-room together, and went into the library. This move
excited no surprise in the others, who supposed it accounted for by there being
some fresh development with regard to her late father's affairs which required
immediate attention. Eversleigh left it to Kitty to begin the conversation. "Mr.
Bennet was here this afternoon," she said, steadily; "and he told me something
which astonished and pained me more than I can express." Kitty stopped,
expecting Eversleigh to speak, but he only looked at her sorrowfully. "He told
me," said Kitty after a pause, "that some house property of his, which was
entrusted to your firm, had been sold without his consent or knowledge, and that
the money had been misappropriated. Is it true?" "I regret to have to answer,
Kitty, that it is too true," replied Eversleigh, falteringly. "It is only too
true," he repeated, shaking his head sadly, "too true." "Won't you tell me all
about it?" asked the girl. "I do so wish to help you if I can," she cried
earnestly. "Kitty, you are, as you always have been, a dear sweet girl,"
responded Eversleigh, with twitching lips and tears standing in his eyes; "but I
am afraid you can do nothing." "Perhaps I can. But let me know, will you not,
how this frightful thing has come about?" she urged. "It is a dreadful story, a
shameful story, Kitty. I have tried to act for the best----"

He broke off with a sob. "I shall never believe you were guilty of anything
criminal!" she exclaimed. "I did not steal the money; you are right, if that is
what you mean, dear; but the law will hold me guilty." "I did not imagine for a
single instant that you had taken any one's money wrongfully. Mr. Bennet said
that you told him the money was taken by Mr. Silwood." "Yes, yes," returned
Eversleigh; "that is true." "Besides yourself and Mr. Bennet and me, does any
other person know about this--trouble?" "No, not a soul." "Then it is only Mr.
Bennet you have to fear?" "Yes; but is that not sufficient?" "I am afraid it is.
Still, if there was to be found a way of satisfying him, would that release you
from further worries of the same kind?" "Kitty," said Eversleigh, speaking with
much emotion; "Kitty, I shall not pretend not to understand what you refer to
when you talk of finding a way to satisfy Bennet. He told me what he intended
doing--how he was to disclose to you that my fate was in his hands, and to
declare to you he would not prosecute me if you would promise to marry him. It
seems to me a monstrous proposition--that you should sacrifice yourself for me.
No, Kitty, you must not marry him. You must leave us to our fate." As Eversleigh
said these words, there was a ring in his voice that had long been absent from
it. He really meant what he said. "I shall not leave you and the others to their
fate," cried Kitty; "you are all dear to me--and then," she said shyly, "there
is Gilbert. Mr. Bennet declares Gilbert will be involved in your ruin; that is,"
she added gently, "if you were found to be a party to--irregularities; then, in
that case he would be compelled to give up the Bar." Eversleigh nodded gloomily.
"I fear that would be so," he said with a gasp. "Gilbert is dearer to me than
myself," Kitty went on, blushing a little, "and I must save him if I can."
Neither spoke for a few minutes. "You are a brave, heroic woman," said
Eversleigh, at last. "But Gilbert will never consent to your sacrificing
yourself in this way." "Gilbert need not know until you are safe out of Bennet's
grasp," suggested Kitty. "And do you not see that I am between two fires," she
continued; "so that I must yield myself? If the worst befall you, then you, dear
Mrs. Eversleigh who has been a mother to me, your sons and your daughter, will
be made miserable for ever! Oh, I cannot think of it! And then there is my love
for Gilbert! No," she sighed in a whisper; "I cannot ruin him." "You are a noble
girl," said Eversleigh, with deep feeling; "but I, we--even Gilbert--have no
right to expect such a sacrifice from you, Kitty." The girl did not at once
reply. Instead she gazed thoughtfully at him. "I wonder if there is no other way
of satisfying Mr. Bennet?" she asked. "I do not know of any." "Could you not
take the money you owe him out of my fortune? Oh, I would give him the half of
all I possess--nay, the whole of it, if that would satisfy him." "Kitty," said
Eversleigh, in so despairing a voice, that it made her start in a sudden terror
that he was about to do something desperate. "Kitty, I see I must tell you
everything. Indeed, I should have told you everything sooner, but I am a weak,
cowardly wretch. For nearly two months I have endured tortures every hour and
every moment, ever since the day Silwood told me that he had embezzled--that is
the bitter word--and appropriated to his own use for speculations on the Stock
Exchange the money and property of our clients--yours, Kitty, along with the
rest. And I, fool that I was, never knew anything of it! I suspected nothing. It
was the expected coming of your father which made Silwood speak out. Kitty, the
part of your fortune which was in our charge has gone--it does not exist." Kitty
was silent. "Why do you not reproach me?" inquired Eversleigh. "There is nothing
you would say that I should not deserve." And then he saw she was crying
quietly. But it was not for the loss of the greater part of her fortune. "How
you must have suffered!" she said, through her tears. And now the man broke down
helplessly and wept like a child. "I must save him," she said to herself with
determination. "If there is no other way, then I must marry Mr. Bennet." But
even while she felt strong enough to carry out her purpose, there was a great
cry of desolation in her heart; she tried to still it with the thought that
there was something in the world even higher than love. CHAPTER XXIV

After Kitty had left Francis Eversleigh she would have preferred to retire to
the seclusion of her bedroom, but she knew that if she did so it would cause
surprise to her friends and lead them to guess something was amiss. Anxious to
spare them, she forced herself to join them in the drawing-room, and sat for an
hour, taking her part in the general talk. Then, saying she was rather tired,
she withdrew. Between the making of a heroic resolve likely to cost the maker
dear, and the carrying out heroically of all the resolve entails, there is,
unless resolve and deed go swift together, room for many changes of feeling not
unlike the rising and the falling of waves. Within Kitty's breast the waves rose
and fell that night, now bearing her aloft so that the sacrifice of herself
seemed easy, now burying her in depths which made it appear impossible. She did
not really waver in her determination; her mind was made up to save the
Eversleighs from the calamity which threatened them. What troubled her most was
the way in which she should communicate her decision to Gilbert. She knew that
he loved her with all the strength and passion of a strong nature, and he knew
that she loved him. And now she must tell him that she was not going to marry
him, but Bennet, the very man, in fact, against whom she had warned her lover,
and whom, she was well aware, he detested. How was she to break the news to him?
How tell him so that he would understand her decision was irrevocable? For one
thing, he must not know why she was breaking off their engagement. Francis
Eversleigh had assured her that Gilbert was unconscious of Silwood's frauds;
indeed, she had not required any such assurance. And she was determined that he
should not know from her. She saw, then, that she could give him no explanation.
She must just tell him bluntly she had changed her mind. But, in that case, what
would he think of her? what must he think of her? And that she should choose
Bennet of all men! Gilbert could not but misunderstand her. He must think her
deceit itself. It was this thought, more than any other, that sunk her deep in
gulfs of despair. And then she told herself that this, too--this renunciation of
the good opinion of her lover, this misunderstanding she must subject herself to
--was part of the price she had agreed to pay to save him and his father from
ruin. "And Gilbert," she said in her heart, "will never know what I have done
for him. He will deem me fickle, false, base, a cheat and a lie!" And then a
sort of rage came upon her, and she asked why this fate had been thrust upon
her; what had she done to be made the victim of such outrageous fortune? "Why
should I suffer thus cruelly?" she cried rebelliously. "Is there no escape?" She
thought of what she had said to Francis Eversleigh--how she would gladly give up
her wealth to Bennet if that would satisfy him. And now she remembered that the
whole of her fortune was not lost, for there was still a considerable portion of
it in Canada. Could she not make a bargain with Bennet? She resolved to try, but
she did not believe she would succeed. If she failed, and she felt she would,
and was compelled to agree to marry Bennet, then it would be impossible to stay
any longer with the Eversleighs; she must make arrangements for leaving them at
once. They, too, would think her hateful and detestable. It was all very bitter!
"Yet they must never know," said Kitty, pondering darkly all these things
through the long blank hours. In the morning she saw Francis Eversleigh alone
for a few moments. "Kitty," he said, in a shaking voice, "you must not sacrifice
yourself. It is not right. Tell Bennet to do his worst. We must bear it as best
we can." There was a brave smile in the girl's eyes as she answered him. "I have
decided," she responded. "You need have no fear. If there is no other way, I'll
marry Mr. Bennet." Then she stopped and looked at him earnestly. "It may not be
necessary," she remarked. "Perhaps the money and property I have in Canada will
be enough to satisfy him." "Kitty, Kitty," cried Eversleigh, "I do not know what
to say--do not know how to tell you, but I so love and admire you! But you must
not blight all your sweet young life for me--it is not right. As it is, you
suffer enough at my hands in the loss of the greater part of the fortune your
father worked so hard for." The girl took his hand and pressed it gently. "I
have made up my mind," she said gravely. Eversleigh, unable to speak, raised her
hand to his lips, and kissed it. Punctually at twelve Bennet made his appearance
at Ivydene. He found Kitty waiting for him in the shrubbery in front of the
house. "I have come for your answer," he said, without prelude. "Is it Yes or
No, Miss Thornton," he asked excitedly. "Will you listen to me first--just a
moment," she pleaded, as she saw the impatient working of his face; "only a
moment?" "Well," Harry replied grudgingly; "what is it?" "If you will tell me
how much Mr. Eversleigh owes you, I will pay it to you--every farthing," replied
Kitty. Bennet shook his head with an almost savage gesture. "Miss Thornton,"
said he, "you will not understand me. I have told you that I love you. And all's
fair in love and war. I am glad to have this hold on you--glad to think that if
it is even against your will I have such a chance of making you marry me, and I
shall not relinquish it. Don't you see, Kitty, I should be a fool to give you
up?" "I will give you twice the amount Mr. Eversleigh owes you, if you like."
"It is useless, quite useless, to make any proposition of that kind," said
Bennet, who, of course, thought that the girl's money would come to him in any
case. "Will you marry me, yes or no?" "But you know, Mr. Bennet, that I do not
love you. You know that I am engaged to Gilbert Eversleigh?" "Gilbert
Eversleigh!" cried Bennet, with a fierce, scowling, threatening expression. "Why
should I consider him? He took you from me; if it had not been for him, perhaps
you would have loved me. I hate and loathe the very sound of his name. I should
like to see him disgraced and ruined, but I am foregoing that gratification
because I love you. I would rather marry you than wreak my vengeance on him, and
to give up this opportunity of revenge is no slight thing for me to do." "He has
given you no cause for such feelings!" "Cause enough," said Bennet. "But all
this is stupid. For the last time, I tell you that the fate of the Eversleighs
is in your power. Will you send Francis Eversleigh to prison, or will you marry
me? That is the issue. And you must answer at once; I will be trifled with no
longer." Kitty, however, did not speak. There was a sudden panic in the girl's
heart. She was asking how could she bring herself to marry this man, with his
coarseness and brutality. "It is No, then!" exclaimed Bennet. "You doom your
friends to hopeless ruin and infamy." "Mr. Bennet, the answer is Yes," said
Kitty, her voice quivering, but her heart once more steadfast. "You will marry
me?" asked Bennet, a note of joy in his rough tones. "Yes, to save the
Eversleighs." "You will marry me soon?" "Mr. Bennet, you must remember that my
father has only been dead a few weeks." "Kitty, now you have promised to marry
me," said Bennet, and he spoke with an accent of sincerity, "I will remember
anything you like to ask me to remember, for I do love you. But you will not
keep me waiting too long?" Having gained his object, Bennet tried to drop the
bully and to become the lover. "You do love me," said Kitty, scanning his face.
"With all my soul!" "And yet your love is not strong enough to make you give me
up--even when you know I do not love you, and that my love is another's?" "Oh, I
am not that sort of man; I am uncommonly human. When I see my chance I go for it
with all my might; and here is my chance come by wonderful luck, and I take it.
What an ass I should be not to take it! Do you blame me so much for doing so,
when you, Kitty, are the prize to be won?" Confident now that he had carried the
day, Bennet spoke quite pleasantly. He even attempted to put his arm round the
girl, but she would not let him. "Mr. Bennet," she said, the colour burning in
her cheeks, "I have promised to marry you, and I shall not break my word, but I
do not love you. Pray spare me until--until----" And she stopped with a slight
choke. Bennet swore under his breath. Aloud he said, "As you please, Kitty," and
stood frowning at her heavily. "My promise to you," Kitty reminded him, "is
conditional on your giving Mr. Eversleigh a full discharge from all his
indebtedness to you." "Yes. You shall have the necessary document from me on the
day of our marriage; that is fair, is it not?" "Will you not let me have it now,
or very soon?" "I'm to give everything and get nothing?" asked Bennet. But even
as he put this question he told himself there was no danger of the girl going
back from her promise, and that he might safely let her have the discharge.
Still, if he did so, it must be on terms. So he continued, "I'll tell you what
I'll do. I'll give you that discharge the first time you kiss me." Kitty, though
her heart felt like breaking all the while, smiled a wan assent. "Is it a
bargain?" he inquired. And she nodded. "You shall have the discharge," cried
Bennet, "as soon as it can be prepared. Does that content you?" "Yes," said
Kitty, and there was a pause. "My proposed marriage to you," said Kitty,
speaking again, "will bring about some changes. It is quite plain that I can
stay no longer at Ivydene with the Eversleighs--they will not understand why I
am acting as I am doing, and, indeed, they must not suspect why it is. I shall
have to invent some plea--some excuse. Until I have gone--for I must go--I do
not wish them to know that I am to marry you. Francis Eversleigh will know, but
none of the rest need know until I have left Surbiton." "Where do you think of
going?" inquired Bennet. "You must not go far away." "I have a distant relative
--a second cousin of my father's--in Yorkshire. She is an elderly lady, and has
more than once asked me to pay her a visit. It is to her that I shall go.
Indeed, there is no other to whom I could go; she is the only relative that I
have in the world." "Yorkshire is a long way off," said Bennet. "I can think of
nothing else," she said. "You will let me know what you decide," said Bennet,
after an interval of silence. "Yes. I'll write you. And now good-bye," said
Kitty; "I feel tired and worn out." When Bennet had gone, Kitty braced herself
for the painful tasks which lay before her. First of all, she told Mrs.
Eversleigh that she was going to Yorkshire next day, and though Mrs. Eversleigh
said very little, the girl saw that she was hurt, offended, and greatly
mystified. And Helen Eversleigh, Kitty could not but notice, thought her conduct
strange. But neither of the Eversleigh ladies pressed her for an explanation,
for which Kitty was thankful. But infinitely the hardest thing was what she
should say to Gilbert. She sat down in her room with a sheet of paper before
her, but for a long while she could not bring herself to touch her pen. How she
wished she could tell him something of the truth--tell him that she was not the
false, fickle light o' love he must think her! Again she had to fight the battle
with herself, and again she triumphed. It was a very short letter, but it was
written in her heart's blood. "Dear Gilbert," it ran, "I have changed my mind.
Our engagement      must be broken off. I intend marrying Mr. Bennet.--KITTY."
CHAPTER XXV

Ever since the discovery of Morris Thornton's body in Silwood's rooms, in Stone
Buildings, Gilbert Eversleigh had constantly felt that he moved in an atmosphere
of mystery, which affected him so closely that he could not but be very
uncomfortable. He attempted in various ways to get further light, but without
success. Another thing which worried him not a little was the poor health of his
father, and the increasing disinclination the latter showed to attend to
business. Over against these disquieting circumstances there were to be set
Kitty's love for him, and his love for her, which far over-balanced them. That
morning Gilbert, when he awoke, first thought of Kitty, and promised himself
that, as he and she had arranged, they would have a long splendid time together
that very day. When he went in to breakfast, a small pile of letters lay on the
table beside his plate. He took them up and scanned the writing of the
addresses. Of course, he at once recognized Kitty's writing. For a moment he
held her letter in his hand, a happy smile on his face, and was about to open
it, but he put it down again, saying to himself that he would keep it to the
last as a special treat. So he went through the rest of his correspondence, and
read it rather slowly, to put off the moment of delight which should be his when
he came to the girl's letter. At last he opened her letter. "Dear Gilbert," he
read. Instantly he was alarmed, for this was not the way she generally began her
letters to him. "I have changed my mind," ran the words; his alarm increased.
But when he next came to the words, "Our engagement must be broken off. I intend
marrying Mr. Bennet," a feeling of stupefaction overcame him. He read the short
letter over and over again in a mechanical sort of way, hardly taking in its
meaning. "'I have changed my mind,'" he repeated to himself. "'Our engagement
must be broken off. I intend marrying Mr. Bennet.'" The thing was so sudden that
at first it stunned him--he could not believe it. But there it was in black and
white, in Kitty's own writing. "I have changed my mind!" There was no mistaking
that. "Our engagement must be broken off. I intend marrying Mr. Bennet," she
wrote. These were her words, and there was no getting away from them. So
everything was at an end between them! More than that, Kitty was to marry
Bennet! With a sudden movement of anguish and rage, Gilbert crumpled the letter
in his hand and threw it from him. He sat for a while staring out of his window,
while his mind began to work with incredible swiftness. Kitty had jilted him--
for Bennet! But Gilbert knew the girl very well, and the first movements of
grief, anger, pain, and amazement past, he tried to think the matter out calmly,
with the result that he passionately told himself Kitty was no jilt, and there
must be something astounding behind her letter. Then he picked up the crumpled
sheet of paper from the floor, smoothed it out, and read its contents once more.
But there was neither light nor comfort to be got from them. What could be the
explanation of her extraordinary conduct? he wondered, for of course there must
be some explanation. Kitty was no shallow flirt, no woman of mere caprice. Why
had she done this? But did her letter afford no hint? She had not only thrown
him over, but she announced she was to marry Bennet--Bennet, of all people in
the world! Had she not warned him against this very man? And now she was to
marry him! Why? As Gilbert sat in his room endeavouring to solve this problem,
it seemed to him that he heard Kitty's rich voice saying in low and sincere
accents the words--almost the last she had uttered when they were together by
the river-side three evenings before, "I feel as if I could not exist without
you now, Gilbert." What could have brought about this mighty change? What
sinister, malign influence had cast its spell over her? As he thought and
thought, it appeared to him plain enough that the girl's change of mind must
associate itself in some way with Bennet. "Yet," said he to himself, "I know she
loves me even as I love her. She does not love Bennet, whom she declares she now
intends to marry. What pressure, in Heaven's name, can Bennet have brought to
bear on her? Pressure there must have been, and of the strongest kind, otherwise
she would never dream of marrying him. What can it be?" A little longer he sat
asking questions to which he could furnish no answers. "I shall go to Surbiton,"
he said at last, "and ask her what she means. She has not forbidden me to see
her, and I shall go at once." But when he reached Ivydene, Kitty was not to be
seen; she had left Surbiton by an early train that morning. He found the house
in some confusion, and in answer to his inquiries, he could discover no more
than that Miss Thornton had departed for Yorkshire. He saw both his mother and
his sister, but could glean very little from them. Both, he noticed, were
greatly excited and distressed, but they told him that, beyond saying it was
necessary for her to leave, Kitty had offered no explanation. "I cannot
understand it at all," said Mrs. Eversleigh. "Have you no idea of what has
occurred to cause her to act in this strange manner, Gilbert?" she asked her
son. "I have not the slightest idea," replied Gilbert. "I got a short note this
morning from her. It said nothing about leaving you. She said she had changed
her mind with regard to our engagement, and that she was going to marry Mr.
Bennet." "Marry Mr. Bennet?" exclaimed Mrs. Eversleigh, her eyes wide with
astonishment. "She did not tell me that. Oh, Gilbert, what does it all mean? My
heart misgives me, there is something frightfully wrong! She told us last night,
without any warning, that she was leaving us. Of course I did not like to
question her--I had no right, and her manner was forbidding. But the poor girl
looked very sad and unhappy. I spoke to your father about her, but he was too
ill and miserable to discuss the subject, or, indeed, any subject. I did not
wish him to go to town to-day; but he said it was most important he should go,
and he went." "Did he appear surprised at Miss Thornton's decision?" "I cannot
say he did. When she told him she was going, he only nodded." "Do you think he
knows why she has gone, and why she is going to marry Mr. Bennet?" "I asked him
these very questions, Gilbert; but he said he could not tell me anything. It is
all very strange!" "Very strange!" cried Gilbert. "It is perfectly maddening!"
"Perhaps you had better see your father," suggested Mrs. Eversleigh. "Yes; I'll
go to him at once," said Gilbert. "You will be gentle and careful, Gilbert!"
urged his mother. "More than once lately I have been forced to think the
troubles through which your father has recently passed have been almost too much
for him. He is all the time in a state of fever both of body and mind. You will
not forget that, my son!" "Certainly not, mother," replied Gilbert. Eversleigh
had expected Gilbert would come to him, but, up to the moment of seeing him, was
uncertain how to act. Gilbert, when he met his father, began by stating he had
received an extraordinary letter from Miss Thornton, in which she broke off her
engagement with him, and announced her intention of marrying Bennet. "As soon as
I got the letter," Gilbert continued, "I went over to Surbiton to see her, but
when I went there I found she had left the house and gone to a friend in
Yorkshire. Mother could tell me nothing, so I have come to you to see if you can
help me to some understanding of the matter." "Did Kitty give you no reason?"
"She merely said she had changed her mind." "Changed her mind! A woman's
reason," said Eversleigh, with a dreary smile. "Kitty was not that kind of
woman," declared Gilbert. "There must have been some powerful reason to make her
act in this way." The young man, his face working, strode up and down the room.
Presently he turned to his father and asked, almost fiercely--

"Can you tell me why this has happened? Do you know why she has broken off with
me, and why she is to marry Bennet?" Eversleigh moved uneasily in his chair,
looked at his son with a glance of entreaty, but remained silent. "Father," said
Gilbert, "you do know something! Will you not tell me of it? Have I not a right
to know? I appeal to you to tell me everything." Eversleigh glanced this way and
that, like a man seeking some path of escape. "Father," said Gilbert again; "you
must tell me! I love Kitty with my whole soul--she is dearer to me than life,
and I cannot resign her without a struggle! I must know what has come between
her and me. Can you not help me?" "Why don't you write Miss Thornton?" asked
Eversleigh. "I shall do so, though the tone of her letter is not encouraging.
But do you mean to say you do not know what has made her change her mind?"
Eversleigh tried to speak. A frightful struggle was going on within him. Should
he tell Gilbert the whole truth or not? Suddenly he made up his mind, as Gilbert
said beseechingly--

"Oh father, will you not tell me what you know?" "Yes, I'll tell you what I know
--all that I know. But how am I to tell it? You will not forget, Gilbert, that I
am your father, your most unhappy father, and you must not condemn me utterly."
Condemn! The word had an ominous sound, and Gilbert felt himself grow cold as he
heard his father's words. "What is it?" he asked, in a hoarse voice. "Can you
cast your thoughts back," said Eversleigh, in a weak and quavering tone, "to a
certain Saturday in July, when you were in this office? I had spoken to you of
the presence of Mr. Bennet at Ivydene----"

"Remember that day!" broke in Gilbert. "Shall I ever forget it? It was on the
evening of that day I proposed to Kitty, and she accepted me. I have more cause
than ever now to remember it!" "That was the day, Gilbert. It was also the day,
you will remember, on which we heard that Mr. Thornton was coming back to
England. The whole trouble begins with his letter," said Eversleigh, and stopped
with a gulp and a choke. "With Mr. Thornton's letter?" "Yes," said Eversleigh,
trying to fight down his emotion. "Gilbert," he went on more calmly, "I am very
sorry to tell you that on the day we received the letter intimating Mr.
Thornton's return, I received from Mr. Silwood a confession that he had been
speculating with the funds and the property of our clients, and that all had
been lost--Mr. Thornton's with the rest." "What!" cried Gilbert, doubting his
senses. "It is true." "Father, do you know what you are saying?" "Alas, yes,
only too well! Thornton's letter spoke of making a formal examination of the
securities we held of his, and it was this which led Silwood to confess his
embezzlements." "But you had nothing to do with them, father!" "No; but I need
not tell you that in the eye of the law, I, as Silwood's partner, was equally
guilty. What I have suffered, what I have endured from that moment, you can
never guess; I have lived in a hell of torture. When I knew the truth, I did not
know what to do; but I just let myself drift and drift and drift, hoping against
hope that somehow or other there might be a way out of the difficulties that
beset me. But there has been no way out. Things have gone from bad to worse.
There was first Silwood's death, and then the death of Morris Thornton." Gilbert
uttered a sharp cry. "You thought Silwood murdered Thornton because of the
money?" he said. "Before the inquest I did, but not afterwards. I know no more
about that mystery than you. Well, the effect of these two deaths was to give me
a respite--I knew it could be at best but a short one, for at any moment some
other client might make a demand which, owing to Silwood's defalcations, we
should not be able to meet. And, by a devilish chance of fate, Bennet was the
man to make that demand. He told us to sell a block of flats belonging to him,
and asked us to advance him ten thousand pounds pending the sale." "And you
couldn't!" exclaimed Gilbert, whose head was whirling with what he had heard.
"There was no possibility of getting the money. But that was not the way in
which Bennet came to know of our--embarrassments. He took it into his head to go
and see the flats--out of a sort of bravado, I think, and there he discovered
the flats had been sold a year ago. He came to me, and I was compelled to tell
him the flats had been sold without my knowledge by Silwood. You see that placed
me in his power; he could have denounced me at once, and I expected nothing
else. But he did not act at once; instead, he said he would take a night to
think over it. Next day he returned and announced he would not prosecute me,
provided I brought about the breaking off the match between you and Kitty, and
got Kitty to marry him." Eversleigh, who had spoken rapidly, now paused; while
Gilbert, with swimming eyes, gazed at his father. "I protested to Bennet,"
Eversleigh resumed, "that it was impossible for me to do this; my influence was
not strong enough. And then he said he would tell Kitty everything, and leave my
fate to her. He did tell her everything, and Kitty, to save me from prison, and
you and the rest from ignominy, consented to marry him." Gilbert drew a deep
breath. "So that is how it is?" he said, his voice full of pain. "She has
sacrificed herself for us!" "It is very noble of her," said Eversleigh. "Noble,
yes; it is heroic. But we have no right to expect such a sacrifice from her."
"None whatever. Indeed, I told her so. I urged her to leave us to our fate; but
she would not." Eversleigh looked at his son anxiously. The young man's face had
a strange hopeless expression; but he had taken his father's statement much more
quietly than the latter had anticipated. Gilbert made no frantic moan, the
calamity of which he had just been apprised went far beyond anything of the
kind. It now literally struck him dumb, both with surprise and grief. Kitty gone
from him for ever! Kitty, his darling, his wife that was to be! And she had gone
in order to save him and his father; and his father was a defaulter! "I must
think over what you have told me, sir," he said at length, and went across to
his chambers in the Temple. CHAPTER XXVI

Gilbert Eversleigh walked out of his father's office, and finding an unoccupied
bench in the neighbouring Lincoln's Inn Fields, sat down to ponder this terrible
and altogether unexpected situation. First, he tried to grasp the facts which
had just been thrust upon him, and to see them in all their bearings. There was
no question now but he must relinquish all thoughts of Kitty Thornton. The
sacrifice the girl was making for him and his father filled him with a feeling
of worship of her into which there entered something sacred. In his mind he
placed her on an altar, as it were, and could have fallen down before her in
adoring homage of that lofty spirit of loyalty she had shown. Now that he knew
all, he determined to write to thank her for what she had done. So far as he was
concerned, it must be his part, he told himself, to make her sacrifice no
harder. Therefore he must abide by her decision and accept it. Gilbert was a
young man, with all the high hopes and the hot passions of youth, and it was not
without the deepest pain that he thought of her and his vanished happiness. It
was natural that he should first think of her and of his own loss. But once he
accepted her decision, he resolved to lock away her image in his heart, and to
cherish it there in secret. Having got himself into this frame of mind, he
passed on to consider his father's position. The greatness and importance of the
firm of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, solicitors, had never for a single
instant been doubted by Gilbert, until his father's declaration had swept away
that greatness and importance for ever. All his life Gilbert had believed his
father's firm was as enduringly established as the Bank of England; he regarded
it as a permanent institution. It was difficult for him to realize it was
nothing now but a bankrupt concern. When he did realize it, and remembered the
obligations of the firm which must exist over and above those arising out of the
Thornton and Bennet Estates, he saw with fatal clearness Kitty's sacrifice might
very well be made in vain, and that some other client might, and almost
certainly would, bring about the exposure and ruin of the firm she had tried to
save. Then, he asked himself, what was his own duty? Without doubt, he must
stand by his father, and do what he could to help him. But how? The cause of all
this disaster and calamity was Silwood, the man whom he had instinctively
disliked and distrusted. It was Silwood who had ruined the firm. It was through
Silwood, indirectly, that he had lost Kitty. And Silwood was dead! From his
grave he defied them all to touch him; there was nothing to be done to a dead
man, Gilbert reflected, drearily. But was that altogether true? The lips of the
dead man were for ever sealed; but had he left nothing behind him? The
Eversleigh firm had been a great one, and to make away with all its funds and
properties could have been no small business, but one which involved a large
number of transactions. Surely there must be notes, traces, indications of these
transactions somewhere. Thousands and thousands of pounds from sales of shares,
and house or land property could not be got or disposed of without leaving some
mark. So Gilbert reasoned. And he resolved to urge his father, therefore, to
have everything connected with Silwood's department thoroughly investigated at
once. And then he thought of his father. "Cast your mind back to that Saturday,"
his father had said. Measured by what his father must have suffered, that
Saturday seemed ages ago. Poor unhappy father! A great wave of pity for him
flooded the heart of the son, who now reproached himself bitterly for having
spoken no word of sympathy. "I must go to him," he said, rising from the bench,
"and ask him to let me help him." A few moments later Gilbert stood once more in
his father's room, his face no longer dark, but full of purpose. "When you told
me what you did just now, father," said he, "I am afraid I did not behave very
well. I was so taken up with myself that I had no consideration for you. It was
wrong of me. I should have known you must have passed through a dreadful time,
in which you have suffered agonies. And now, sir, I come to request you to
permit me to assist you in every way I can." "Gladly, my boy; but how can you?
What is there that any one can do? I am like a sinking ship," said Eversleigh,
mournfully. "Will you tell me if you have overhauled Mr. Silwood's books and
papers?" "No, I have not. I began, but desisted." "Why, father?" "Because I
thought Williamson was suspicious. I felt sure that he was watching me. So I
stopped, and allowed things to drift." "But, father, the only chance you have
lies in making this investigation. If Williamson is in the way, he must be got
rid of." "Would not that in itself excite remark?" "Not necessarily, surely. But
if his going does cause remark, we shall just have to put up with it. Besides,
we can give him an excellent character and a gratuity--these will salve his
feelings." "But what excuse can I make?" "Can you not say you are going to make
extensive changes, owing to Mr. Silwood's death?" "He has been such a long time
with us," objected Eversleigh. "Yes, I know; but you cannot afford to keep a man
who suspects you. At any cost, he must go." "He is a good clerk," began
Eversleigh. "I wonder if he really is!" exclaimed Gilbert. "If he was such a
good clerk, how was it that he did not know of Silwood's defalcations?" "Perhaps
he does know." "If he does, it would be well to be sure of it. Have him in now,
and tell him he is to go. If he knows anything he will speak out." "You are so
impetuous," said Eversleigh, feebly. "I have a strong feeling," replied Gilbert,
"that your safety lies in immediate action." "And what would be your next step?"
"I should get in an accountant familiar with legal work, and have him go over
all Silwood's books and papers. Silwood cannot have disposed of all the moneys
and properties of the firm without leaving some indication of how he did it; and
perhaps an investigation may reveal that things are not so bad as you think. He
cannot have disposed of everything. For instance, there must be certain trusts
and other matters with which he could not tamper. Suppose we try to look into
them all, father." A spark of hope shone for a moment in Eversleigh's eyes, but
it speedily went out. "I am quite willing, Gilbert, but I am afraid it will not
be any use," he said, dejectedly. "Whom would you think of getting to examine
the books and papers?" "I fancy I know the very man. Young Archer Martin, of
Roscoe and Martin." "Could you depend on his discretion?" "Absolutely."
Eversleigh was silent. His impulse was to surrender himself to the guidance of
his son; but he was sore afraid. Gilbert saw from his father's face that he was
hesitating. "There is no other way, father," he cried, with decision. "Then be
it so," agreed Eversleigh. "And what about Williamson?" "Can you not let him
remain, at least, for a time?" "I think not, sir." "Well, well. I am not sure it
is wise." But Gilbert had no doubts, and in the end Williamson received a note
saying that after that week his services would not be required. At the same
time, the head-clerk was given a handsome cheque as a solatium. Gilbert next set
out for the office of Roscoe and Martin, where he was fortunate to find Archer
Martin. As briefly as possible, Gilbert told him that he had reason to believe
there had been some irregularities in his father's office, and that his father
had deputed him to invite the accountant to make a searching investigation
immediately, if that fitted in with his engagements. "As it happens, it does; I
can set to work to-morrow," said Martin. "Of course," said Gilbert, "it is a
confidential investigation--that is understood." "Certainly," said the
accountant, who had no idea that he might innocently be making himself a party
to a fraud. Archer Martin, accordingly, went to 176, New Square, the following
day, and began his inquiries. Without referring to any one except Gilbert, he
went on his way, steadily plodding through the books and papers of the firm. His
labours extended over several days, but he had not gone very far when he saw the
true character of the work he was engaged on. He knew there was being disclosed
bit by bit a gigantic system of fraud which involved huge sums of money, and
that the system had been practised remorselessly and with diabolical cunning and
ingenuity for years. He saw that Cooper Silwood, by one means or another, had
appropriated many thousands of pounds, though what he had done with the cash did
not appear. It was plain he had stopped at nothing; there were false entries
everywhere and many forgeries. He wondered at the ability Silwood had manifested
in keeping up appearances so long. It was evident to him, from various sums of
interest being paid to clients at the proper time, as if their investments still
remained, that Silwood had kept a strict account of his robberies, but though he
searched in Silwood's room, throughout the rest of the office, and even in
Silwood's apartments in Stone Buildings, for some book or memoranda relating to
these robberies, he could not find it. He came to the conclusion that Silwood
had either destroyed it or taken it with him. He had heard of Silwood's death as
well as of the death of Morris Thornton, and now saw pretty clearly how matters
stood. Failing to light upon Silwood's memoranda, he tried to see what could be
done by tracking out some of the larger transactions of the defaulting
solicitor, which necessarily involved the names of other persons. And this led
him to make an extraordinary discovery, though he did not think it so
extraordinary as it really was. Amongst the names of persons having large
transactions with Silwood, there occurred that of James Russell, described as of
99, Douglas Street, Stepney. In the aggregate, Silwood's dealings with this man
came to a vast sum, and Archer Martin thought Douglas Street, Stepney, was a
curious address for one who presumably must be very well off indeed. All through
his investigation he had been in close contact with Gilbert Eversleigh, and he
now suggested some inquiries be made about Mr. James Russell, of 99, Douglas
Street, Stepney. This Gilbert undertook to do himself. Gilbert had some
difficulty in finding Douglas Street, but eventually did find it. No. 99 turned
out to be a humble house--not at all the kind of dwelling in which a man dealing
with large sums of money was likely to reside. He discovered also that it was no
longer occupied by Russell, that individual with his wife and crippled child
having left it some time before; but he learned that they were poor people,
living in a very poor way. And much more he could not learn. "What, then, was
the connection between Cooper Silwood and James Russell?" he asked himself. "Was
Russell a confederate?" But he could get no further than this supposition. He
had to content himself with putting a private detective on the trail of James
Russell, and awaiting results. CHAPTER XXVII

It was now the second week of September. Kitty Thornton was staying at Buckhurst
House, near Selby, in Yorkshire, not many miles from Doncaster, with her
relative, Mrs. Joicey, a widow lady. The girl, though she felt as if her heart
was broken and there never could be any happiness in the world for her again,
still adhered firmly to her determination to do what she considered her duty.
Since she had come to Yorkshire she had heard but once from the Eversleighs. The
message came in a short note from Gilbert, which ran--

"My father has told me all. God bless you and keep you." The words were brief,
but Kitty read into them a depth of meaning. She pictured to herself Gilbert
writing this letter in much the same spirit of renunciation of joy and
acceptance of inevitable evil, as had inspired her own action. And again she
told herself, as she had had to tell herself very often, that in life there were
higher things than love. But she treasured up Gilbert's words and even the piece
of paper on which they were written. Meanwhile she had another interview with
Bennet, who, following the round of the races, as usual, had gone down to
Yorkshire for the great Doncaster September meeting, in which his horse, Go Nap,
was expected to cut no small figure. Although Bennet had not been able to get
the ten thousand pounds from Francis Eversleigh which he had asked him for, he
yet had experienced very little difficulty in obtaining all the funds he wanted
for his purposes. More than once before this time he had had recourse to a
certain Jew, Joel Levy by name, for loans, which Bennet had always heretofore
repaid punctiliously; he was therefore in excellent credit with this money-
lender. When Bennet told Levy he was engaged to marry Kitty Thornton, the
daughter of Thornton, the Missing Millionaire, whose remarkable story was known
to everybody, Levy offered no objection when he was asked for a fresh loan. He
merely inquired when the marriage was to take place, and was satisfied on
hearing it was arranged for an early date--as soon, in fact, as the lady's
mourning for her father would decently permit. Levy congratulated Bennet on his
good fortune, wished him equal luck in his racing, and, having obtained his
signature to bills carrying interest at fifty per cent., wrote out a cheque.
Thereafter Bennet liquidated his most pressing liabilities, and with the
balance, still a considerable sum, set off in high spirits for Yorkshire. But
before going north he had seen Francis Eversleigh, been told the exact sum for
which Beauclerk Mansions had been sold by Silwood, and had had prepared a
discharge to the firm for the same. This he took with him unsigned, and when he
presented himself at Buckhurst House, and asked for Miss Thornton, he had the
document in his pocket. He had made a bargain with the girl for it, and his
pulses beat fiercely as he thought he would at last hold her in his arms and
embrace her. He knew well enough that her response was likely to be of the
coldest, but assured himself that from the moment he touched her lips, he should
begin to dominate and bend her to his will. Kitty received him much more
graciously than he expected, but this was merely because she felt that, with a
man of Bennet's character and disposition, the Eversleighs would not be safe
until her sacrifice was complete. She was afraid, too, that in some way she
might be tricked by him. When he handed her the document which was to cancel the
obligations of Eversleigh's firm, he was careful to tell her it had been drawn
up by Francis Eversleigh himself, who had also sent with it a covering letter,
expressing its effect in formal terms. "I think," said he to her, "I have done
exactly what you would have wished me to do. Nothing remains now except for me
to sign it and transfer it to you." Kitty nodded gravely, and brought him pen
and ink, that he might affix his signature to the discharge. He signed his name
with a flourish. "I would do a great deal more than this for you, Kitty," he
cried, as, holding the paper in his hand, he advanced towards her. Giving it to
her, he said, eagerly, "You remember the bargain we made?" "Yes," she replied,
and unresistingly allowed him to take her in his arms. He clutched her to his
breast in an almost savage embrace, while he showered kisses on her lips.
Passively she submitted to his caresses, though she loathed them and him from
the bottom of her soul. By a strong effort of will, she managed to control
herself so as not to show the repulsion with which he filled her. "And I have
promised to marry this man!" she thought. "How shall I ever be able to live with
him!" As she gently disengaged herself from him, he saw that she was deathly
white. "Oh, Kitty!" he exclaimed. "If you would only love me!" "Love was not in
our compact," she said, with a tremor. "You shall love me," he responded. "When
we are married, you must love me." But the girl said nothing. Then he asked if
she would not accompany him to the races. "You are sure to bring me luck," he
cried. Reminding him that she was still in the deepest of mourning, she
declined, wondering how the man should be so unfeeling. "For the moment I had
forgotten," he returned, apologetically. "It was very thoughtless of me--pray
forgive me; but wish me luck all the same, will you not, Kitty?" Kitty, however,
was hurt, and would give him no answer. Bennet regarded her for an instant or
two, a heavy frown gathering on his face. "You refuse to wish me luck!" he
cried. "I do everything you ask me to do, and yet you won't wish me good luck!
For your sake I have forgone my claim on the Eversleighs, and you haven't one
good word for me! Kitty, I warn you not to cross me, not to make me angry.
Thanks to you, the Eversleighs owe me no money--that is true, but remember that
if I were to whisper in certain quarters what I know about the firm, its credit
would not last very long." "What! You would do such a thing!" "It depends on
you, Kitty, and on you alone. Be my friend--I know you cannot, perhaps, love me
all at once, but be my friend; in our circumstances surely this is not much to
ask from you." "What would you have me do?" "Wish me luck, Kitty--that's a very
little thing!" "I have always heard, Mr. Bennet," the girl said, looking at him
steadily, "that this racing is your ruin." "Oh, you preach, do you!" ejaculated
Bennet, with a scowl, and, without another word, turned on his heel and left
her, while Kitty bitterly asked herself if her sacrifice was to go for nothing.
An hour or two later, Bennet was at Doncaster, in close confabulation with Bob
Deans, the jockey who was to ride Go Nap. "You understand thoroughly?" inquired
Bennet, as he was going back to his hotel. "Yes, guv'nor, I understand
perfectly," replied the jockey. "You can depend on me." But Bob Deans made a
face behind the other's back. "He's a daisy," he said to himself, "that's what
he is!" The first day of the Doncaster September meeting passed by without
special incident. Bennet had several bets on the different events, but at the
end his book nearly balanced; it was a trifle against him. "It will be all right
to-morrow," he said to an acquaintance, with whom he was discussing the fortunes
of the day. "I expect that Go Nap will pull me through handsomely." "You believe
he'll win?" "I feel absolutely confident of it," said Bennet, with emphasis.
"You are not alone in that," remarked the other. "I noticed your horse is going
up in the betting; it now stands at five to one against; a few days ago it was
ten to one." Bennet smiled; indeed, his face showed every sign of pleasure. "You
might do worse," said he, "than put a bit on him." "Yes, I think I shall,"
responded the other; "it looks pretty good." And to all whom he met Bennet spoke
well of his horse, and took any small bets that were offered, but, contrary to
his usual practice, he would not risk any large sum. And all the while,
secretly, through agents he thought he could trust, he was laying heavily
against Go Nap, until he stood to win £20,000 if the horse _lost_. Bright
sunshine, a cool breeze, and a perfect track combined to make the second day of
the races peculiarly enjoyable to the devotees of the turf. The race in which
Bennet's horse was to run was the third on the list. The fine appearance of the
animal that morning as he went for a short gallop had gained for him many
supporters, and an immense amount of money was forthcoming on him, with the
result that he farther improved his position in the betting. When the flag fell,
the price was only three to two against him. To the huge delight of his backers,
Go Nap won easily. Taking the lead from the start, he was never seriously
challenged, and reached the post "with plenty to spare." Bennet, who was
watching the race from one of the stands, had followed his horse from start to
finish with anxious eyes. He had given Bob Deans certain instructions, and he
believed they would be obeyed implicitly by the jockey. Bennet saw the horse
leading at the beginning. That was nothing, he said to himself, as Deans knew
what to do, and was the best judge of when to do it. But as Go Nap sailed along
steadily in front, apparently without effort, Bennet commenced to see the race
as through a mist. When his horse won, and his friends were offering him their
congratulations, he could scarcely speak for rage. His passion completely
blinded him to the impolicy of his behaviour, and everything that was worst in
the man came to the surface. Hardly noticing what was said to him, he rushed
from the stand. "He takes it queerly," said a bystander. "His head's a bit
turned, though that's perhaps not to be wondered at," said a second. As for
Bennet, he literally saw red. "Deans has sold me!" was the savage cry in his
heart. Thrusting those aside who happened to be in his path, he made his way to
the jockey, who saw him coming. Bob Deans viewed with alarm the fury and despair
in Bennet's face, and turned to run away, but with two or three quick bounds
Bennet was upon him. Grasping the jockey by the shoulder, Bennet, who had
utterly lost control of himself, and was wholly blind to consequences, shook him
as a terrier shakes a rat. Bennet was a tall, athletic man, and the tiny figure
of Bob Deans was as nothing to him. Instantly several of those standing about
tried to interfere and separate the two men. But Bennet, who was now to all
intents and purposes a madman, shook them off fiercely, without letting go his
hold on Deans. "Leave me alone," the jockey spluttered, "or I'll give you away!
Let me go!" "Let you go, you hound!" cried Bennet in a terrible voice, and, his
face hideously distorted, he shouted, "By ----, I'll kill you!" The onlookers
again strove to pull the two men apart, and succeeded sufficiently for Bob Deans
to cry so that every one heard him--

"He wished me to pull the horse; he offered me a big bribe, but I would do
nothing crooked." Bennet heard the words as well as the others. Putting forth
all his strength, and quite beside himself, he sprang forward with uplifted
fist, and catching the unfortunate jockey a frightful blow under the chin,
felled him to the ground. Many now ran up to the group. Bob Deans was a popular
jockey, and the victory of Go Nap had been popular. Soon there was a great
crowd. A short examination showed that Bob Deans was dead. CHAPTER XXVIII

The little jockey had ridden his last race! The blow which had struck him down
had been delivered by one who had been a first-class athlete, and who was still
in splendid physical condition. There had been the stark madness, too, of blind
rage behind Bennet's arm, and the blow had proved fatal. When the truth was
known, there instantly was a great commotion. Bennet made no effort to get away;
if he had attempted to fly he would not have succeeded, for he was ringed round
by hostile and stern faces that plainly spoke of vengeance. In a moment more
hands were laid upon him by those of the crowd nearest him, but he offered no
resistance. Instead, he stood staring at the motionless body of his victim, and
appeared not to realize what he had done, and the position in which his act had
placed him. Suddenly from somewhere in the crowd a loud cry went up of "Murder!
Murder!" The cry seemed to break the fit of stupor in which Bennet was, for his
face was seen to quiver, while a shudder shook his frame. "What have I done?
What have I done?" he said, as if he had just become conscious of the deed he
had committed. "You have killed him," replied one of those standing by. "He is
not dead?" asked Bennet, wildly. "Dead! yes; he is dead, and you killed him!"
answered the same man. "I never meant to kill him," said Bennet, looking once
more at the little figure that lay on the ground. "Why," said a voice, "I heard
you say to him, 'I'll kill you!' --I heard you say those very words!" "I was in
a passion," Bennet declared, "and did not know what I was doing. I never thought
of killing him." "Then why did you say to him--I heard the words
distinctly--'I'll kill you'?" But Bennet made no reply. He now comprehended
fully the position in which he stood, and he thought silence his best policy.
Those about him, however, were far from silent. He could not help hearing what
was being said, and he understood that nothing but detestation and execration
were being expressed. The crowd had no sympathy whatever for him. On the
contrary, had the crowd not been composed of Englishmen, accustomed to abide by
the law of the land, Bennet would have been given a short shrift. If what he had
done had been perpetrated in America, he would undoubtedly have been immediately
lynched out of hand. But the crowd waited for the police to come upon the scene.
The crowd, however, talked excitedly, vehemently. The words which had passed
between Bennet and the jockey were repeated from lip to lip. The statement of
Bob Deans that Bennet had tried to bribe him to pull Go Nap, and that he had
refused to do so, was soon known to all; in the minds of most was the thought
that Bennet, in suggesting this course to the jockey, was guilty of a crime even
greater perhaps than murder, and that no punishment was too heavy for it. Many
of them would have maintained that hanging was too good for him; some of them
even said so. Presently the police came up, and Bennet was arrested and charged
with the murder of Bob Deans. The affair, as was to be expected, made a
tremendous sensation, not only throughout the world of the turf, but everywhere.
At Doncaster itself reports of what had taken place spread like wildfire through
the place; nothing else was talked of, and but little interest was taken in the
remaining races on the programme that afternoon. In the whole history of racing
never had there been anything so extraordinary. The popular victory of Go Nap,
the murder of the victorious jockey by the owner of the horse, the revelation
which had been given by the unfortunate Deans of the reason why Bennet had
killed him,--these and other particulars, which grew and grew as they passed
from mouth to mouth, formed as sensational a set of incidents as could well be
imagined. Brief but lurid accounts of what had occurred at Doncaster appeared in
the London evening papers the same day, and caused the greatest excitement.
Gilbert Eversleigh, walking about seven o'clock from the Temple to his club for
dinner, his mind occupied and distressed by the difficult problem of how his
father was to escape ruin, received his first intimation of the tragedy from the
placard of one of these journals. In large, solid black letters he read--

"VICTORY OF GO NAP AT DONCASTER. MURDER OF ITS JOCKEY, BOB DEANS,     BY ITS
OWNER, HENRY BENNET." "What new calamity is this?" he asked himself, as his
thoughts flew to Kitty. As soon as possible, he procured all the evening papers
and read, with feverish haste, their narratives of the terrible event, from
which the main facts stood out clearly enough. "What will happen next?" he cried
in his heart, overcome with amazement and horror. Owing to its being the holiday
season of the year, there were but few men at the Club when Gilbert reached it,
but such as were there were conversing about the murder. Bennet was well known
to several of them; it was recalled that he was a Varsity oar, but what was
principally talked of was his monstrous passion for gambling, which it was
guessed was responsible for his present terrible situation. Gilbert listened,
but took only a small part in the conversation; it was an immense relief to him
to find no reference was made by anybody to Bennet's engagement to Kitty. He
hoped it might be possible to keep the girl's name out of the business
altogether, but in this he was speedily disappointed. Next morning the papers
were full of the affair. Descriptions of what had taken place at Doncaster were
given the utmost prominence, and nothing was left untold that could be put
together about Bennet in a short space of time. What was known of his career was
published; and amongst other things mention was made of his recent engagement to
Miss Kitty Thornton, daughter of the man whose body had been found a few weeks
ago in such strange circumstances in the rooms of the late Mr. Cooper Silwood,
and much sympathy was expressed for her. This was the first public announcement
of Kitty's engagement to Bennet, and Gilbert, who noticed it with the greatest
pain, wondered how this piece of news had been conveyed to the Press. He could
not know that Joel Levy, the big money-lender, had talked about it among his
friends, through whom it had got to the ears of the reporters. The same morning,
that is the morning after the death of Bob Deans, Kitty saw a long account of it
in the columns of the Yorkshire paper that was delivered every morning at
Buckhurst House. Prior to reading this statement, Kitty had deemed herself as
unhappy as it was possible for any one to be, but when she knew what had
happened, she was plunged into deeper misery still. Bennet a murderer, and she
engaged to him! It was the last unkindest stroke of fortune. And yet while she
was sorry for herself, and much as she detested Bennet, she could not help
feeling sorry for him. It did not at first occur to her that he had, by his rash
act, if not crime, put an end, in all probability, to their engagement. When
that thought did come, as it was bound to come, she drearily speculated what the
wretched man in his despair would do; in other words, she feared that the
bargain she had entered into with Bennet for the salvation of the Eversleighs
was a bargain which in these new circumstances he would not keep. The papers had
announced an inquest was to be held that day, and she awaited the verdict with
sickening apprehension. And what might there not appear in these journals in
addition to the account of the inquest? Of course, she told herself, it was
quite improbable that Bennet would say anything about the Eversleigh matter at
the inquest; but what might he not say, might he not already have said, to
others--to the police, for instance? She was not long left in doubt as to the
line Bennet intended to take. The inquest was held in a crowded court which was
entirely hostile to Bennet. And that the jury took the darkest view of Bennet's
action soon was manifest. A local solicitor, called Deakin, had been retained
for him, and he did his best to get a verdict of manslaughter returned, but even
if the evidence had been less convincing than it was, the general feeling would
still have been too strong for him. There were plenty of witnesses who agreed,
with only small verbal discrepancies which are always a feature of such cases,
and confirm rather than detract from the value of the main volume of testimony,
as to what had passed between Bennet and Bob Deans. The words used by the two
men were quoted by several witnesses with substantial accuracy; particularly the
threat of Bennet to the jockey, "I'll kill you!" was brought forward by them
all, and practically settled in the minds of coroner and jury the degree of
Bennet's guilt. Bennet, they concluded, had intended killing Bob Deans, and had
killed him. The cause of the murder made Bennet's crime blacker and blacker
still. His solicitor tried to show there had not been, there could not be, any
premeditation on Bennet's part, and that the deed was done in the heat of
passion without there being any real intention to kill the man. He urged that
the death of the jockey was of the nature of an accident; his client had
certainly struck the blow, but could not know it was likely to be fatal. The
most and worst Bennet was guilty of, Deakin contended, was manslaughter. But the
jury were of another mind. Without retiring to consider their verdict, they at
once found Bennet guilty of the wilful murder of the jockey. It was a verdict
which met with general approval. The coroner, in accepting it, said the case was
one of the most painful nature, but as it would doubtless form matter for the
consideration of a higher court, he would make no further comment upon it. Like
hundreds of thousands of people who were following this dark story of the turf
with the most absorbing interest, both Kitty and Gilbert saw the finding of the
jury, and later that Bennet had been committed for trial at the next assizes on
the capital charge. Kitty, wondering miserably what Bennet would do, thereafter
received from him a letter, in which he asked her to visit him in prison without
delay. By this time he had been removed from Doncaster to York, and thither
Kitty went, accompanied by her relative, Mrs. Joicey, that very day, though it
was not until the next that she saw him. Prison life had already told on Bennet,
and she observed a marked change in his appearance, which filled her with pity;
but the man was in a black, reckless, defiant humour, as she soon noticed; even
the near presence of a warder did not deter him from expressing what was in his
mind. "I'm very, very sorry for you, Harry," she said, and there was the sound
of tears in her voice. It was the first time, too, since their engagement that
she had called him "Harry." "Sorry!" he cried. "Do you think I believe that?
Don't be a hypocrite. You are glad, you must be glad of my misfortune. You think
it will set you free!" "Oh, Harry, do not think of me; think of yourself!"
"Think of myself!" said Bennet, fiercely, implacably. "Can I not think of myself
and of others too?" The girl involuntarily shrank from him. "Oh, Harry, Harry!"
she said piteously. "I sent for you," Bennet went on without heeding her appeal,
"to tell you that I will not release you. I do not believe that I shall be found
guilty of murder--it was no murder, and I shall not release you from your
engagement to me. But if I am found guilty, you may be sure I shall not go out
of the world without letting it know the truth about Francis Eversleigh. There!
That is all! And now you can go." "Harry, Harry!" cried Kitty; "how can I touch
your heart?" "Touch my heart! The day has gone past for that. Now go--and go at
once; the sight of you is torture. Go!" CHAPTER XXIX

Though Bennet had said to Kitty Thornton that the sight of her was torture to
him, yet, when she had departed, her pleading face remained present for a short
time in his thoughts and temporarily softened him. But this frame of mind
quickly passed, leaving him a prey to hatred, malignity, and the darkest
passions. His devilish humour now prompted him to an act of hideous malice. The
idea came to him that if he had Gilbert Eversleigh as his counsel at the
forthcoming trial, he would inflict on Gilbert, as well as on Kitty, the most
exquisite pain. It was the idea of a fiend rather than of a human being, and
showed, as perhaps nothing else could have done, how Bennet's whole nature had
been warped to the side of evil. He gloated over this monstrous idea, telling
himself that in this way, whatever happened, he would glut his desire for
revenge. He knew that, in ordinary circumstances, Gilbert would never consent to
appear for him if he could avoid doing so; but a threat to expose Francis
Eversleigh would be enough, Bennet believed, to settle the matter. Whether
Gilbert would or would not be a good counsel counted for little with him in
comparison with the gratification he expected and promised himself, from seeing
the man he had always hated placed in this position. It was much the same thing
as if Bennet had said to Gilbert--

"If you succeed in getting me off from the capital charge, I shall not release
Kitty from her engagement, but will marry her after my term of imprisonment has
expired. Though I shall be a convict, I shall compel her to marry me, for the
same reason that made her engage herself to me. "Or, if you don't succeed, and I
am sentenced to death, and there is no Kitty for me, then you shall not have
her; for I will not quit this world without exposing your father and bringing
disgrace on you, in which case you will not seek to marry her." No matter the
result of the trial, Bennet assured himself, with diabolical satisfaction, that
he would cause Gilbert's heart to suffer the most horrible agony. He at once
took the necessary steps by instructing the local solicitor, Deakin, to have
Gilbert Eversleigh retained for his defence. He gave a certain plausibility to
this, when discussing it with the lawyer, by representing that Gilbert was well
known to him, being the son of the head of the London firm of solicitors who
transacted his legal business, as well as that of his father before him. When
Deakin, in reply, suggested it might be better, in view of the seriousness of
the charge, to employ a more eminent barrister, Bennet peremptorily declined to
do so, saying his mind was made up. Deakin, therefore, put himself in
communication with Gilbert, and he naturally did so in this particular case
through Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, though they were not his own London
agents. When Francis Eversleigh received his letter, he instantly perceived the
malice and hatred that inspired Bennet's proposal; it was a fresh and bitter
blow to himself, but he understood its ingenuity of cruelty was specially aimed
at his son. As for himself, he was helpless; all he could do was to send for
Gilbert, and lay the letter before him. Gilbert at first was dumbfounded. He
could hardly believe that Bennet at such a time could make such a proposition
seriously; but he, too, soon perceived what lay behind it. "It is infamous!" he
cried; "or the man must be out of his head. To select me of all people!" Then he
looked at his father, whose weakness and loss of power were more and more
evident every day. "What am I to do?" he asked. "How can I defend this man?" "He
holds me in the hollow of his hand," observed Francis Eversleigh, with a
pathetic shake in his voice. "I know, I know," said Gilbert. "And I suppose I
must appear for him. But the thing is an outrage----"

Gilbert was interrupted by a loud knocking at the door of his father's room--it
was no ordinary knocking, but a knocking that spoke of some strong emotion on
the part of the person who knocked. Gilbert strode to the door and opened it.
The clerk who had replaced Williamson was standing there, and on his face was a
terrified expression. "I must speak to Mr. Eversleigh immediately," he said
hurriedly. "What is it, Mr. Whittaker?" asked Eversleigh, with a quick
agitation. "I should like, begging Mr. Gilbert's pardon, to see you in private,
sir," returned Whittaker, confusedly. "Please come into Mr. Silwood's room;
there is no need for Mr. Gilbert to go from here. It is something I must show
you personally in Mr. Silwood's room." "But of what nature is it?" "That I can
scarcely tell, but you may be able to do so." Francis Eversleigh said no more,
but went with Whittaker into Silwood's room. In a few moments he came back
alone, looking so shattered that as soon as his son saw him he rushed forward to
assist him. When Gilbert offered him his arm, he took it at once, and Gilbert
could feel how his father shook and trembled. "What has happened?" he asked,
after helping his father into a chair. "Yes, in a minute," stammered the other;
"I am horribly upset, and I can stand so little now! In a minute I'll tell you
all." He lay back in his chair with his eyes closed--the mere wreck of the
handsome man he once had been. "A very strange thing has taken place, Gilbert,"
he said after a while--"a very strange thing indeed!" Eversleigh stopped, and
Gilbert patiently waited till his father spoke again, his heart full of
compassion and sorrow. For the moment, he forgot Bennet, and could think of
nothing save the pitiable state of his father. At length Francis Eversleigh
recovered himself sufficiently to stand up. "Come with me," he said to Gilbert,
"to Mr. Silwood's room--that will be the simplest way of making you acquainted
with what has happened." And Gilbert, with mingled feelings of curiosity and
alarm, followed his father to the next floor. Halfway down the stairs,
Eversleigh halted. "Whittaker thinks it's a burglary," he whispered mysteriously
in Gilbert's ear. "A burglary! In the office!" said Gilbert, incredulously in a
low voice. "Wait," cautioned Eversleigh. "Wait until you see." And now they were
in Silwood's room, which was still known as Silwood's, though it knew Silwood no
more. It was changed, however, but little since he had sat in it and worked his
wicked will. "Close the door, Gilbert," said Eversleigh. The son obeyed, and
then glanced about him. He could see no sign of disturbance, nothing that
indicated specially the burglary of which his father had given a suggestion on
the stairs. There were in the room, as of yore, the same table, chair, book-
cases, deed-boxes; all were arranged in the way that was familiar enough to him.
The large japanned box stood by itself in the usual corner. There appeared to be
absolutely no hint of anything out of the ordinary. This rapid scrutiny over,
Gilbert looked at his father inquiringly. "You don't notice anything
particularly?" asked Eversleigh. "No; that is, at a superficial glance." "I wish
you to examine the bottom of that box," said Eversleigh, pointing to the large
japanned box in the corner. "You and Mr. Archer Martin have recently had
constant access to it for the purpose of going over Mr. Silwood's books and
papers; you therefore know it well. Now you will see something I am sure you
know nothing of. I did not know of it myself--not until Whittaker showed me it."
While Eversleigh was speaking, his son was looking at the foot of the box, from
which he saw there protruded a narrow strip of metal. "What do you make of
_that_?" asked the father, huskily. "I should say it was a sort of secret
chamber--you can't exactly call it a drawer," Gilbert replied, after a study of
the box. "I knew nothing of it; you are right there. How has it been discovered?
What was found in it?" he inquired eagerly, while other questions came thronging
into his mind. "When was this discovery made?" he went on. "It was made this
morning," replied Eversleigh. "Whittaker tells me he had occasion to come into
the room a few minutes ago to get a paper which he thought he'd find here. He
could not lay his hand on it quickly, and had to hunt for it. Quite by accident,
as he was searching, he happened to observe a strip of metal at the foot of the
box sticking out. Naturally, he went and examined the box, and then saw the
secret chamber, which he declares was empty, and I don't doubt it. Now he is
positive that when he saw the box yesterday this secret chamber was closed."
"Positive! In what way?" "It seems that he and one of the other clerks required
to move the box yesterday. And he maintains that one or other of them, or both,
must have seen the secret chamber if it had been open then. He concludes, of
course, that it has been opened since he saw it last. His theory is that it was
opened last night by a burglar. I don't know whether he really believes that; it
appears preposterous and beyond possibility that any ordinary burglar would be
acquainted with this secret chamber." Gilbert nodded his agreement. He had
listened carefully to his father, but at the same time had been trying to
understand how the mechanism was worked by which the chamber was opened and
closed. It baffled him, however, and he desisted from the attempt. "What do you
make of it?" asked the father. "Do you believe Whittaker right in thinking the
chamber was opened last night?" inquired Gilbert. "I do." "But that he was wrong
in putting it down to a burglar?" "Yes. Do burglars break into lawyer's rooms? I
don't mean to say that such a thing is impossible, for valuable documents have
been stolen--you can imagine that." "Of course. But if the secret chamber was
not opened by a burglar, then by whom was it opened?" "That is the question,"
said Eversleigh, gazing earnestly at his son. "Whoever opened the secret chamber
knew of its existence," Gilbert went on, thinking the matter out aloud.
"Undoubtedly. He knew of its existence, and he also had the means of opening
it." Gilbert suddenly started, for an extraordinary notion had come into his
mind. His father saw the start, and thought he knew its meaning. The two men
looked at each other strangely. "Only two men in the world, I feel certain, knew
of that chamber," Eversleigh resumed. "One was the mechanic who devised and made
it, the other was----"

"Cooper Silwood!" exclaimed Gilbert. "Yes, Cooper Silwood." "But Silwood is
dead, so you would say that it was the other? That seems absurd." "It is absurd.
What would the mechanic who made the box care about taking anything out of the
secret chamber? Once his job of making the thing was finished, he would be
finished with it altogether. No, it was not the mechanic." Gilbert was silent.
"Don't you see?" asked Eversleigh. "Silwood!" "Precisely." "But that is
impossible. Dead men do not open secret chambers," said Gilbert, but there was
something curious and suggestive in the manner of his saying it. "No. Dead men
do not open secret chambers, but living ones do. Silwood is not dead! He is
alive!" Eversleigh's voice rose into a shout and then cracked. "It seems
inconceivable." "Yet there is no other conclusion. The maker of the box being
out of the question, it follows that it must have been Silwood. I believe he was
here last night and removed from the secret chamber something of particular
value to him." "Silwood might have told some one of it," objected Gilbert. "Is
it likely? You know he was the least communicative of men." "What about
Williamson?" "I feel confident he knew nothing of it either. Don't you see this
secret chamber was a receptacle in which Silwood hid papers or other things he
had an object in concealing? You may be certain he told no one of it. If he had
told any one, would he not have told me? No, Gilbert; from the moment I knew of
Whittaker's discovery I suspected the truth." "But the certificate of his
death?" "It was a false certificate." "Strange I had not thought of that before,
once I knew the kind of man he was!" "Silwood is alive," Eversleigh once more,
but with less vigour, declared, after a pause of some duration. All through the
conversation up to this point he had carried himself, supported by excitement,
with some degree of his former buoyancy, but now he seemed to sink rapidly into
a state of apathy, while Gilbert regarded him anxiously. "I don't know what's to
be done next," murmured Eversleigh, feebly. "Some one must go to Italy," said
Gilbert, emphatically, "and find out the truth--that's what must be done!"
"Then," said his father, "you must go!" CHAPTER XXX

"I?" asked Gilbert. "Yes," Francis Eversleigh replied, with some decision. "I
can do nothing. In fact, I am physically and mentally unfit to do anything of
importance at present. The discovery of the secret chamber, indicating as it
must that Silwood is alive, supplied me with a sort of stimulus, but that is
passing off, and I feel as weak and helpless as a child. I feel," he went on,
while he slowly put his hand to his forehead, "as if I were going mad. It is an
awful feeling!" "Father!" "Oh," cried Eversleigh, "this business will be the
death of me! I know it!" These words, Gilbert told himself, were caused by the
reaction to which his father had alluded, and were not to be taken literally,
but he gazed solicitously at the other. "No wonder you are depressed, father,"
he said, in a sympathetic tone. "Well, I'll go to Italy," he added in another
voice. "That's right! Don't mind me! You must go at once, my boy." "Yes, but
what about Bennet? We have rather lost sight of him, have we not?" "I think we
need not consider Bennet at the moment. I shall answer his lawyer and say you
are willing to be retained for Bennet's defence." "You deem that best?" "What
choice have I, Gilbert?" Gilbert shrugged his shoulders. "There is no
alternative," continued Eversleigh. "But some time must pass before the trial;
indeed, you will have a good many weeks to come and go upon. Surely that will
give you plenty of room for making your inquiries. Still, there is no saying--
the task may be very difficult." Eversleigh paused, lost in thought. "You would
not bring the police into the thing?" Gilbert asked suggestively. "Not at first.
Later, perhaps, but I don't know; it must depend on circumstances one can
neither foresee nor control. I shall certainly say not a word at this juncture
to the police." "What about the Foreign Office people?" "Yes, that is a good
idea. I think your best plan is to go and see, if you can, Sir John Manners, the
Under-Secretary, whom I know very well. I'll give you a note to him, and request
him to make your path as smooth as possible. If you see him personally, I should
be inclined to tell him in confidence what we now believe about Silwood--that
is, if he is at all encouraging in his manner. You must judge for yourself." "I
understand," said Gilbert. "I should ask him for an introduction to the British
Ambassador at Rome. It might prove very useful. Arm yourself with the best
credentials you can get; but of course you must be guided largely by what Sir
John says." "Yes," assented Gilbert. "But suppose he is not at the Foreign
Office? At this time of the year so many officials are away on holiday." "You
can see, at any rate, the man next to him; still, it would be far better to see
Sir John." "I had better set off for Downing Street immediately," said Gilbert,
but he did not at once move. Instead, he looked very thoughtful; at length he
spoke, "You have no doubt about Silwood being alive, sir?" "None whatever." "You
believe he was here last night--here, in London, in this office?" "Certainly."
"Then should we not look for him in London?" "A natural question; but does not
that mean bringing in the police?" "There are private detectives to be got. I
have one at this moment on the track of Russell, who bought so much from
Silwood." "I do not object to having a private detective employed, but I have a
strong impression--it amounts really to a certainty--that the clue is to be
picked up in Camajore, where Silwood was reported to have died. On the face of
the certificate, which we now believe to be a false one, there is written, plain
as if it had been in ink, collusion between Silwood and the Syndic. They were,
you may be sure, in league, and they may be so still. Be that as it may, you can
make investigations, which I am positive will have valuable results." Eversleigh
leaned back wearily, fatigued with so much speaking. "Will you try and find Sir
John at the Foreign Office, then return and let me know? Meanwhile I'll rest a
little," said Eversleigh. In a couple of hours Gilbert was back again in
Lincoln's Inn. He had been lucky enough in his errand. He had seen the Under-
Secretary, who had given him the introduction he had wanted to the Ambassador at
the Quirinal. "I did not think it necessary to tell Sir John," said Gilbert,
relating what had taken place at the Foreign Office, "anything regarding what we
now know about Silwood. On the way to Downing Street I went over the
circumstances carefully, and I came to the conclusion that it might serve our
purpose well enough merely to say to him that, as Silwood had died in Italy, you
desired me to make inquiries, to see the body had been buried decently, to have
a tombstone put up, and so on. And that it would, or might be, of great service
if he would give me a note to the Ambassador, to be presented, however, only if
an occasion arose for doing so." "And Sir John was satisfied?" "Perfectly. He
was very nice about it, and said he was delighted to be of use to you."
Eversleigh smiled wanly. Then he spread out on his table some papers, which
Gilbert saw were the certificate of Silwood's death, the letter of Ugo Ucelli,
the Syndic of Camajore, that had accompanied it, and the envelope in which both
had been enclosed. "It occurred to me," observed Eversleigh, "that it would be
well for you to take these with you." He handed them to his son. "Do you recall
the contents of the Syndic's letter?" he went on. "Perhaps you had better have
the translation." "I remember what he said in a general sort of way, but the
translation might be a help," replied Gilbert. "Well, here it is," said
Eversleigh, drawing a folded sheet from a packet. Gilbert read the translation
rapidly, and asked--

"Did you ever answer the letter?" "Not beyond sending a formal acknowledgment."
"The letter speaks of Silwood having left certain effects, which the Syndic says
are in his possession; he asks you what is to be done with them." "I know, I
know," remarked Eversleigh. "Of course, if the circumstances had been normal, I
should have attended to the Syndic's letter fully. But I was in no state to do
so. The letter, you must remember, came on the day of the discovery of Morris
Thornton's body--was, indeed, the immediate cause of the discovery. Before that
--ever since Silwood's confession--I was too upset to give my mind to business
properly, and since that I have been able to attend to nothing as it ought to be
attended to." And Eversleigh sighed painfully. "I would not brood on that, sir,"
observed Gilbert. "I cannot help it; but never mind me just now. I suppose you
will leave to-night for Genoa; you ought to be there in thirty-six hours or so.
Therefore you should see the Syndic, if he is at the place still, in two days
from now. His letter to me gives you an opening. You can tell him I asked you to
find out what effects Silwood left." "That will do very well indeed," said
Gilbert. A few minutes later he bade his father good-bye, and left that evening
for the Continent. In forty-eight hours he was in Camajore, and lost no time in
hunting up Ugo Ucelli, its Syndic, or Chief Magistrate. Ucelli, a medium-sized
man of characteristically Italian appearance, received him with extreme
politeness. When the Syndic understood Gilbert did not know Italian, he
conversed with him in French, a language both were proficient in. Gilbert made
known who he was, and the errand on which, ostensibly, he had come. "Ah! that
poor Monsieur Silwood," said Ucelli. "His was an extremely sad case. But what
would you? It was the will of God." Gilbert kept his eyes fixed on the man, and
studied his face closely, as if he could in that way penetrate its inmost
secrets. "The cholera was everywhere," continued Ucelli, "and many died besides
M. Silwood. It has been a great calamity. Alas! but it is the will of God! the
will of God!" The repetition of the phrase irritated Gilbert. "A pestilence is
always terrible," he said, but somewhat bluntly. "You did all you could, I am
sure, for Mr. Silwood." "The best doctors, nurses, care--everything. But, alas!
it was the will of God." "What a consummate hypocrite the man must be!" thought
Gilbert. Aloud he said, "Was the body buried near here?" "In the churchyard.
Come, let me show you his tomb." As they went together down the single street of
which Camajore consists, towards the church, Gilbert said his father had
specially charged him to discuss with Ucelli what was to be done with the
effects Silwood had left behind him, and which were now in the Syndic's
possession. "Yes; when we return to my house I will show you them. There is not
much--some letters, a pocket-book containing a few pounds in notes, and some
gold and silver, the money amounting in all to about twenty pounds English.
There is also a watch, and I believe that is all. As Syndic I have kept them,
but, of course, am very willing to hand them over to the proper authority.
Indeed, I shall be very glad to do so." By this time the two men had reached the
grave-yard. On entering it, Ucelli pointed to the numerous mounds on which the
earth was comparatively fresh. "The cholera," he said; "it was the cholera!
Alas! it was the will of God!" Gilbert nodded, his face set and stern. "See,"
said the Syndic, when they had advanced a few steps, pointing to a mound, "that
is where the body of M. Silwood lies." In appearance this mound differed in no
respect from the rest. "Do you think of erecting a monument to M. Silwood?"
asked Ucelli. "If so, I can have it made for you here." "No," replied Gilbert,
shortly. "What I intend to do is to remove the body to England." "The body
removed to England!" said the Syndic, who had given a great start on hearing
Gilbert's statement. "Yes; that seems best," remarked Gilbert, watching Ucelli
keenly, and noticing his surprise. "But think! he died of cholera! The law will
forbid--it does forbid--the body of one who has died of cholera from being
removed. It is therefore impossible, I regret to tell you, for you to carry out
your intention. I am very sorry, for your idea is a natural one; but the law,
monsieur, the law will not permit it." "There's a good deal of cleverness about
this plot," thought Gilbert. But he said to Ucelli, "I am very sorry to hear
this. Is there no way of getting over the difficulty?" "No way, monsieur, none
whatever. It is impossible. It is the law. And it is also common sense," he
added, smoothly and courteously. "On reflection you must admit it." "Suppose the
law did not forbid it," asked Gilbert, "what should I have to do in order to be
allowed to remove the body?" "The authorities must give permission." "What
authorities?" "At Rome. I can do nothing in such a matter; it is too high for
me." "Then to Rome I must go," said Gilbert to himself. But he talked no more on
this subject with the Syndic, who accordingly thought Gilbert was satisfied, and
had abandoned any idea he might have had of removing the body to England. Then
they went to the office of the Syndic, and there Gilbert was shown the effects
to which allusion had already been made. In addition to the articles and sums of
money mentioned by Ucelli, there were two leather valises and some clothing. The
Syndic explained that it had been necessary to burn most of the clothes that had
belonged to Silwood. "If you would like to examine or look into anything," said
Ucelli, "you are at liberty to do so. It is, perhaps, slightly irregular, as you
are not a relative of the deceased, but I make no objection." "Everything has
been carefully planned," thought Gilbert, as he mentally took note of the
various objects. "They have succeeded in making the thing look perfectly natural
and what would be expected in the circumstances. The watch, the clothes, the
money, the letters, the travelling-bags, are just what one would expect to find
as the dead man's effects, if he had been a dead man." "To give you these, I
shall require to have an order from the Government," said Ucelli. "The
Government at Rome?" "Yes." "I suppose, then," said Gilbert, "I had better go on
to Rome?" "That is your best course," agreed Ucelli, without suspicion, and he
bade Gilbert _bon-voyage_. CHAPTER XXXI

While Ucelli, Syndic of Camajore, was congratulating himself he had played his
part so well that he had as little to fear from Gilbert Eversleigh as from the
detective Brydges, or the journalist Westgate, who had come to make inquiries
respecting the death of Cooper Silwood, Gilbert, on the other hand, was
congratulating himself that, owing to the final turn of their conversation, his
going on to Rome seemed to the Syndic the right and proper thing to be done. If
Ucelli had suspected Gilbert had a twofold object in view, he would have taken
all the means in his power to prevent him from attaining it; but he thought
Gilbert had dropped any idea he might have entertained of opening Silwood's
grave, and now had no other end than to obtain the necessary authorization by
which Silwood's effects would be handed to him. The Syndic's mind, therefore,
was at ease. On his way to the Italian capital, Gilbert considered the
situation. He did not doubt that the law with regard to the removal of a
cholera-infected body was what Ucelli stated, and he foresaw it might be
difficult, perhaps impossible, for him to accomplish his purpose. He hoped,
however, that he might put such stress on his belief that in Silwood's grave was
no body at all, as would lead the British Ambassador to make strong
representations that in this case there could be no danger in opening the grave.
On his arrival in Rome, Gilbert called at the Embassy immediately, only to be
told that Lord Prestonkirk, the Ambassador, was not in the city, but was staying
at a house he had in the mountains many miles away. Thither, accordingly,
Gilbert went, the journey involving the loss of a day, at which he fretted not a
little. The kindness of his reception by Lord Prestonkirk speedily caused him to
forget his vexation. Lord Prestonkirk was one of the ablest and most experienced
diplomatists in the English service. He had spent a great many years at the
Foreign Office in London, becoming eventually the Permanent Under-Secretary, a
position he had occupied with great distinction until the Prime Minister, who
was also Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had offered him the Embassy at
Rome. Gilbert presented his letter of introduction from Sir John Manners, the
Ambassador's successor as Permanent Under-Secretary, to Lord Prestonkirk, who at
once said he would be very glad to do anything in his power to assist him. "I
have come to your Excellency," said Gilbert, after thanking the Ambassador for
his courteous reception, "to consult you confidentially on a very serious
matter. I must unfold to you a strange story, and ask for your assistance, or,
at least, advice. It is connected with the death of Mr. Silwood, my father's
partner." "I remember hearing of Mr. Silwood's death," said Lord Prestonkirk,
"in the north of Italy some weeks ago. Cholera, was it not?" "So it was said,"
replied Gilbert. "My father received the intelligence in a letter from the
Syndic of Camajore, the place of Mr. Silwood's death; a certificate of the death
accompanied the letter. Here they are," Gilbert continued, taking them from his
pocket, and placing them before the Ambassador. "Please read them." "The
certificate is in the usual form," said Lord Prestonkirk, "and the Syndic's
letter shows that everything was done for the unfortunate man that could be
done. That is satisfactory." "I have just come from Camajore," remarked Gilbert,
"where I saw the Syndic. You will notice that in his letter he speaks of Mr.
Silwood having left certain effects; they will be handed over to me on my
obtaining the proper authority." "And you wish my help in the matter?" "Yes,
your Excellency; but this is only the beginning. I told you I had a strange
story to unfold," said Gilbert. "To put the matter as briefly as possible, I--or
rather, I should say, my father and I--have reason to believe that the
certificate of Mr. Silwood's death is a false certificate, that the letter of
the Syndic is nothing but a clever piece of fiction, and that Silwood is alive."
"What!" exclaimed the Ambassador. "Are you quite serious in making these
statements?" He looked at Gilbert incredulously. "I certainly should not make
them," answered Gilbert, gravely, "unless there was good ground for them. And as
I do not believe that Silwood is dead, it follows that I do not believe his body
lies buried at Camajore. It is regarding this that I beseech your Excellency's
assistance." The Ambassador was silent, but his face wore a perplexed
expression. "What you have said suggests, Mr. Eversleigh," remarked Lord
Prestonkirk, after a lengthy pause, "something criminal, that is, if you are
right in your belief. I am afraid that I am not the proper person exactly to
come to. But tell me succinctly what you thought you would ask me to do in the
case." "I wished you to help me with the Italian Government by getting, or by
putting me in the way of getting, authority to have the alleged grave of Silwood
opened up." "I see. But supposing I did try to do this for you, it must be
obvious to you that I should have to bring forward some very convincing
argument. Graves are not opened except for special reasons." "I know," responded
Gilbert. "I was prepared for what you urge, and I must tell you all. But in
doing so, I am placing the honour of my father in your hands." The Ambassador
bowed. "Mr. Eversleigh," he said, somewhat stiffly, "you must please yourself as
to what you tell me." "I beg your Excellency's pardon," cried Gilbert; "but it
is not too much to say that it is a matter of life and death to my father and
myself. Pardon me, I beg of you." "Well, I'm ready to listen," said Lord
Prestonkirk, more graciously. "Indeed, I am a good deal interested. You have
said enough to show me that there is some strange story, as you stated, and if I
can be of any service to you, you may count upon me." Then Gilbert told him all.
The Ambassador listened with great attention, asking a question now and again as
Gilbert proceeded with his tale. When it was finished, Lord Prestonkirk remarked
that he had never heard a stranger story. "You believe," he asked, "that the
testimony of the secret chamber is absolutely convincing of Silwood's being
alive?" "Yes." "Was there no one else who could have opened it?" "No one but the
maker, and he is out of the question. Who, beside Silwood, would have any object
in opening it?" "The conclusion is just," acknowledged the Ambassador; "and I
believe, with you and your father, that the man is alive; everything undoubtedly
points that way. But as I hinted, I think, to you already, it is really a case
for the police." "Later it will in all probability be," said Gilbert; speaking
with great earnestness. "But at present my strong desire and hope is that I may
be able to trace Silwood, lay hands on him, and get from him, in some way or
other, an explanation of certain transactions which he negotiated in the course
of his defalcations. If I were to have him arrested when found, it would most
likely be impossible to get him to say anything." "I understand," said the
Ambassador, but he looked at Gilbert dubiously. "I believe he had a
confederate," Gilbert went on, as he saw Lord Prestonkirk did not altogether
follow him. "Let me explain a little more fully. The accountant who went over
his books and papers found that large transactions had taken place between
Silwood and a certain James Russell. Inquiries were made about this Russell, and
it turned out he was quite a poor man, or, at all events, a man living in a very
poor way in Stepney--not in the least the sort of man to engage in large
financial operations. I fancy he was a man of straw over whom, perhaps, Silwood
may have had some hold, and that Silwood made use of him when a man of straw was
needed. We found that this man had recently left Stepney, and I have employed a
private detective to hunt him down." "What did you say his name was?" "James
Russell." "Ah!" exclaimed Lord Prestonkirk. "Is it possible your Excellency
knows anything of him?" "Perhaps. Do you happen to know what he was like in
appearance?" "We could get no accurate description of the man. His neighbours
said he was seldom at home; they thought he was a workman." "Well, it may only
be a case of coincidence," said the Ambassador; "but the man's connection with
Silwood suggests it may be something more than a coincidence. It happened one
day last month, August, that there was a person giving the name of James
Russell, and described as a workman, a British subject, stabbed in the streets
of Genoa. He was wounded in the side, but not severely. Though he refused to
prosecute the person who knifed him, and the thing was hushed up, the affair was
reported to me, as it might have led to trouble. There was no prosecution,
however, and I took very little interest in it, but the man's name comes back to
me." "It is more than a trifle curious," said Gilbert, musingly, "and I shall
not forget what you have told me." This he said aloud, but inwardly he was
asking himself if it might not be that, after all, Silwood had communicated to
James Russell the method of opening the secret chamber. If that were the case,
then the proof on which they built the idea of Silwood's being alive was not so
convincing as they had thought. He kept this, however, to himself. "I should say
it was the same man," remarked the Ambassador. "As I tell you, I attached no
importance to the matter at the time, since it led to no trouble. Now, it seems
very odd that this workman, James Russell, did not try to get compensation for
his injury--that looks strange in an ordinary workman. Then there is the fact
that Silwood was in the same neighbourhood." Lord Prestonkirk gazed at Gilbert.
"Your story grows upon me, Mr. Eversleigh," continued the Ambassador. "I am
immensely interested, and I'll see what I can do. But once more I must tell you
that it is a case for the police." "I admit that it would be so under ordinary
circumstances. But, your Excellency, I must think of my father. I must try to
save him. I do not see how I am to do it, I confess; but while there is the
slightest chance of getting fuller information than we now possess of what
Silwood did, I cannot abandon all hope. You see my position?" "And sympathize
with it; but still--still, it is all very irregular." "But you will help me?"
"There will be difficulties. You see, I cannot tell the Italian authorities what
you have told me. I cannot use the same arguments with them that you have used
with me. Still, I am going to try what I can do. There is a detective in all of
us, and you have excited the detective in me, and if I can get that grave opened
for you, it shall be opened." Gilbert thanked the Ambassador warmly. "I shall be
in Rome the day after to-morrow," said Lord Prestonkirk, as he shook hands with
Gilbert. "Come and see me in the afternoon." CHAPTER XXXII

Gilbert returned to Rome, well content with his success so far. He felt that
Lord Prestonkirk was genuinely interested, and therefore would do all he
possibly could to help him. But, at the same time, what he had heard concerning
James Russell filled his mind with disquiet and uncertainty. The presence of
James Russell in Northern Italy at or about the date of Silwood's reported death
was in itself startling. True, there were many James Russells in the world, and
this particular James Russell who had been wounded in the streets of Genoa,
might not be the James Russell whom he regarded as Silwood's confederate or
accomplice; but Gilbert had little or no doubt that he was the man he wanted so
much to find. And if this were the case, what then? What was this man doing in
Northern Italy, a few miles from Camajore? The answer evidently was that he had
been in touch with Silwood. Again Gilbert was forced to ask himself, Might not
Silwood, after all, be dead and buried at Camajore, as the Syndic had said? If
that were so, then Silwood must have communicated a knowledge of the secret
chamber to Russell before his death, and the secret chamber must have been
opened by Russell. On a review of all the circumstances, Gilbert was compelled
to acknowledge that this might be the explanation. If it were, it was obvious
that he must try harder than ever to lay James Russell by the heels. But he was
still determined to have the grave opened. For if Silwood's body were in it,
then there was no more to be said on that head, and Cooper Silwood would
disappear finally from the story, leaving the mystery of Lincoln's Inn for ever
unsolved. Gilbert wrote to his father, Francis Eversleigh, an account of what he
had done and of what he had heard with regard to James Russell. He also
communicated with the private detective he was employing to track Russell down.
At the time fixed, Gilbert went to see the Ambassador, but it was only to meet
with disappointment. "I must ask you," said Lord Prestonkirk, "to exercise a
little patience, as it may be a day or two before the matter can be settled one
way or the other. I saw the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and told him what you
wished. Of course I did not tell him what you told me, but I said I believed
there were good reasons for my supporting your application for having the grave
opened. I dare say he thinks that it has something to do with politics. Be that
as it may, we are on excellent terms, and he promised to see about it, but said
it was outside his department, and he must speak to the Minister of Justice, as
such affairs were under his control." "I am greatly obliged to you," said
Gilbert, earnestly. "Can you give me any idea when you will hear from the
Minister again?" "Very soon, I think. I urged that the matter was most
important, and said that I should deem it a personal favour if there was as
little delay as possible." "You are most kind," said Gilbert, "and I don't know
how I am to thank you sufficiently." "Pray do not try, Mr. Eversleigh. You see,"
continued the Ambassador with a smile, "you have aroused my curiosity, and I
must say I am quite keen to know the truth. Come again to-morrow, and perhaps I
may have something definite to tell you." Gilbert called at the Embassy the
following day, scarcely expecting to hear the "something definite" of which Lord
Prestonkirk had spoken, but to his joy he did. "I have to tell you," said the
Ambassador, cordially, "of a most unexpected piece of good fortune." "You have
succeeded!" cried Gilbert, excitedly. "Yes; but let me tell you how it came
about. It appears that Ucelli, the Syndic of Camajore, has been for a long time
in the black books of his superior, the Minister of Justice. This is the piece
of good fortune so far as you are concerned. As soon as he heard that Ucelli was
suspected of having issued a false death certificate, he instantly said that
such a charge must be immediately investigated. So far as I can make out, the
Minister was delighted with the opportunity of making things particularly
unpleasant for Ucelli, on whom he has had an eye for months. I imagine he is
anxious to find a sufficient reason for removing him from his position. You will
get the benefit of the Minister's being in this frame of mind. It is a lucky
thing for you, and I hope it is a good omen of your success." "Thank you again
and again," said Gilbert. "I am infinitely indebted to your Excellency. What can
I do to show how thankful I am?" "There is one way," replied the Ambassador,
kindly. "I wish you to keep me informed of what takes place--I want to know the
sequel to this strange story into which you have brought me." "Oh, I shall be
very glad to let you know what happens; I should have done that in any case.
Now, your Excellency, what is the next move?" "The Minister of Justice is
determined that the matter shall be probed to the bottom," rejoined Lord
Prestonkirk. "He is therefore sending to Camajore no less a person than his
Deputy-Minister. I was rather surprised to hear it, for the Deputy-Minister is
quite a great man, but it indicates the importance the Minister attaches to the
investigation, and you may be sure it will be thorough." "I am very glad to hear
it," said Gilbert, but he had hardly uttered these words when a sort of dread
came over him that Silwood's body might be found in the grave. He steadily
refused, however, to let his mind dwell on this idea. "All that remains for me
to do now, Mr. Eversleigh," said the Ambassador, "is to give you a line to the
Minister of Justice by way of introduction; you had better go and call on him at
once." "Yes, I will do so." Lord Prestonkirk wrote a short note, and handing it
to Gilbert, wished him good-bye and good luck. "Don't forget to let me know--eh
--the sequel," smiled the Ambassador, as he shook hands with Gilbert. Arrived,
within a few minutes of his leaving the Embassy, at the Ministry of Justice,
Gilbert was almost immediately ushered into the presence of Signor Fava, the
Minister. Finding that Gilbert did not know Italian, Signor Fava conversed with
him in English. "You believe Ucelli to be in a plot," said the Minister, after
some discussion, "to screen this Mr. Silwood? Yes; but there is one question I
must ask: Why has he tried to screen Mr. Silwood? What was, or is, the
consideration?" "I do not know what was, or is, the connection between the two,"
replied Gilbert. "Ucelli must have been offered some strong inducement." "That
is probable, most probable." "It must be inquired into, it must!" The Minister
touched an electric bell, and his Secretary entered the room. "Please request
Signor Vinci to come to me," the Minister said in Italian to his subordinate,
who forthwith withdrew. "Signor Vinci," the Minister explained to Gilbert, "is
my Deputy. I merely desire to introduce you to him. I have already asked him to
arrange with you when to go to Camajore. When do you intend to go?" "I should
like to go at once--that is, if it is convenient to Signor Vinci." "How would
to-morrow do?" "Capitally." A tall, swarthy man, with a determined-looking face,
now came in. "Mr. Eversleigh," said the Minister, "this is the Deputy-Minister,
Signor Vinci. He has already received his instructions, and if you can go to-
morrow, so can he. And you will find that he can speak English as well as or
better than I." "Oh no, Excellency," protested the Deputy. "But I am certainly
quite ready to go with Mr. Eversleigh to-morrow, if that suits him." And so it
was arranged. Before setting out next morning, Gilbert received a telegram from
his brother Ernest, which made him very sad. It ran--

"Father seriously ill, but immediate danger not apprehended. He is unable to
attend office. I opened your last letter to him, but am completely fogged as to
its meaning." "My father seriously ill," thought Gilbert. "How he has suffered!
If the worst happens, it will have been Silwood who has killed him! And the
office! How long can it go on in my father's absence without something being
discovered and a catastrophe precipitated? What a terrible situation! What am I
to do?" he asked himself, greatly agitated. But a little reflection convinced
him that it was his duty to proceed to Camajore. Still, his brother's message
chilled and depressed his spirits. It was towards the middle of the afternoon
when Gilbert and Signor Vinci walked up the single street of Camajore to the
residence of Ucelli. The Syndic saw the Deputy-Minister with surprise, but was
far from guessing the real cause of his appearance. "It is about the effects of
that poor Signor Silwood you have come," he said to Signor Vinci in Italian,
"along with Signor Eversleigh, is it not?" "The effects," said Vinci,
diplomatically; "yes. Let me see them." The Syndic produced the money and the
various articles which had belonged to Silwood. "I will give you a receipt for
them," said the Deputy, "and take them with me to Rome. They will eventually be
given to the person or persons who can show the best claim to them." "That is
quite correct," agreed the Syndic, obsequiously. "Will your Excellency take them
now?" "Yes." The Deputy-Minister, the look of determination on his face which it
habitually wore suddenly becoming sharply accentuated, snapped out the "Yes" so
harshly that Ucelli could not help noticing it; there was that in it which made
him quake. He glanced at the Deputy to see if he could interpret the swift
change in his manner. "Mr. Eversleigh," said Vinci, crisply, "has proffered a
request to the Minister of Justice, and his Excellency will comply with it. This
request was that the grave of Mr. Silwood should be opened, and the body removed
to England. It is permitted." "But, Excellency," urged the Syndic, "pray
consider the circumstances. Mr. Silwood died of cholera." "I am aware of it,"
said the Deputy. "Of course, every precaution science can suggest must be taken.
But the command of the Minister admits of no discussion. The grave must be
opened, and that to-day; now, or at any rate as soon as possible." "But,
Excellency!" began Ucelli, "I----"

"Say no more! The matter is settled, and I am here to see the grave is opened
and the body given over to Mr. Eversleigh." "A thousand pardons, but,
Excellency, I shall be able to get no one to dig. Everybody knows Mr. Silwood
died of cholera; and who amongst the villagers will have the courage to face the
pestilence?" "But with proper precautions?" "Alas! our simple people do not
understand precautions; they do understand what death from cholera means by the
way of infection." "I must say I do not comprehend the objection, if the
necessary precautions are taken. No, signor, let us to work at once. I will go
with you and procure disinfectants, and, thereafter, the grave-diggers, while
Mr. Eversleigh rests here. Come!" The Syndic scanned the Deputy's face, but it
was uncompromisingly resolute. "There is no need for your Excellency to put
yourself to the trouble of going with me--I can easily see to all that is
required," suggested Ucelli. "I prefer to go with you," replied the Deputy, with
unmistakable decision. Then he added, "My authority may be of some use to you,
signor, with the grave-diggers." And the voice of the Deputy was exceedingly
grim, while Ucelli turned a sickly white and found nothing more to say. CHAPTER
XXXIII

"Come!" said the Deputy-Minister peremptorily to Ucelli. "Meanwhile, Mr.
Eversleigh, do you remain here till we return. I do not think you will have to
wait very long." "Very well, signor," Gilbert replied, though he would have
preferred accompanying the two Italians. "Come!" cried the Deputy once more to
Ucelli. But the Syndic had now found his tongue. He begged the Deputy to give
him a few moments' private conversation in the next room. "You can say what you
have to say here, surely. If you speak in our own language, Mr. Eversleigh will
not understand you, so you will be quite safe." Ucelli urged that Mr. Eversleigh
was evidently a highly intelligent man, and must have picked up some knowledge
of Italian. Therefore, with all respect to the Deputy-Minister, he ventured to
think it possible Mr. Eversleigh might understand. And again he requested a
private interview, which finally was granted to him. The Deputy and the Syndic
retired to an adjoining room, and left Gilbert alone with his thoughts. His
thoughts were a strange jumble. In the fore-ground of them were Silwood, James
Russell, the Syndic, and the Deputy-Minister, but behind them were his father,
Kitty, and Harry Bennet. As he sat there, they all presently seemed to mingle,
to become obscure, as in some feverish dream, and then to stand out sharp and
clear again. Perhaps half an hour had passed when there rang through the house
the report of a revolver, immediately followed by the sounds of a struggle and
the cries and shouts of those engaged in it. Gilbert sprang to his feet at once,
and ran into the next room, from which the noise had come. There, on the floor,
were Ucelli, and above him the Deputy-Minister holding him by the throat. A
little distance away lay a revolver; there was the smell of burnt powder in the
air, while the furniture of the apartment was in disorder. "Get something,"
panted the Deputy, "with which we can bind and secure him, Mr. Eversleigh. Take
that table-cover and tear it up--that will do." Gilbert, who had of course
easily grasped the situation, did as he was bid, and in two or three minutes the
Syndic was bound hand and foot. "You are not hurt?" Gilbert inquired of the
Deputy. "I heard the sound of a shot." "No; though it was not Ucelli's fault. He
deliberately tried to kill me, but I was too quick for him," said the Deputy,
still gasping. "I will tell you all when I have recovered a little." And
breathing heavily, he seated himself on a chair. Gilbert glanced at Ucelli--the
man's face was the colour of paper. "First of all," said Signor Vinci, after an
interval, "he tried to bribe me, and failing in that, sought to kill me, though
what he hoped to gain by killing me I cannot understand." "It was the act of a
madman." "You would say he was driven to it by despair? That, perhaps, is the
explanation; or it may be he expected to make good his escape. But you see what
all this means? It means you are correct in what you have stated about Silwood.
Ucelli has not made a confession--that is, a direct confession--but his conduct
can bear no other interpretation." "Yes," assented Gilbert. "Our next step must
be to get the grave opened, and then the case will be complete. But first I will
give Ucelli the opportunity of making a full confession." The conversation
between the Deputy-Minister and Gilbert had, up to this point, been in English.
Turning to the Syndic, Signor Vinci asked him in his own language if he wished
to make a statement. "What is the use?" asked Ucelli. "I have done for myself--
the game is up!" "That being so, why not make a clean breast of everything?"
"What good would that do me? You will, besides, lay a charge against me of
trying to murder you, and I shall be condemned to a life-sentence." The Deputy
thought for a few seconds. "You are determined to say nothing?" he asked Ucelli.
"I will confess all--but only if you will promise me one thing on your honour,"
said Ucelli, who had been thinking too. "I cannot make terms with you." "In this
instance you can." "To what do you refer?" "If you will waive the charge against
me of trying to kill you, I will disclose everything. After all, I did not kill
you; and if you will withhold the charge of attempt to murder, I will open my
lips." "You ask a great deal!" cried Vinci, but he did not refuse the man. As
rapidly as he could, he told Gilbert of Ucelli's proposal, and said he was
disposed to accept it. "You may be surprised," he said to Gilbert, who was
indeed astonished. "But I will tell you the reason. It is for your sake. If
Ucelli makes a full confession, you will learn all you desire to know.
Naturally, I have a desire that Ucelli should be punished for his attempt on my
life, but I am willing to forego it. By so doing, and in this way obtaining the
confession, I acknowledge and repay the obligation you have placed the Ministry
of Justice under, for you have put into our hands the means of convicting
Ucelli. I am sure this is what the Minister, His Excellency Signor Fava, would
have me do." "It is noble of you," said Gilbert, warmly, "to give up wreaking
vengeance on your own account." The Italian bowed and smiled pleasantly. He now
addressed the Syndic, who had been watching the faces of the two others as they
conversed, trying to gather from their expression what they were saying. "I
agree to your proposal," he said to Ucelli. "I will make no personal charge
against you. You, on your part, will tell us all--absolutely all without
equivocation." "Yes, Excellency, absolutely all," replied the Syndic, a little
colour of hope coming into his pallid cheeks. "With your permission, I will
speak in French, which Mr. Eversleigh understands, as does your Excellency, I
doubt not." "Let it be so," assented the Deputy. "Speak on!" "I must go back
some years, four or five," said Ucelli; "it was then that Silwood first came to
Camajore. He made a stay of several weeks, in the course of which he became
intimate with me; he often spent the evenings here, playing chess, a game of
which I am fond. His holiday at an end, he went back to England. I did not see
him again till last July. I wondered at his coming when cholera was everywhere,
but he had an object in view--a scheme, which compelled him to run the risk."
Here the Syndic paused, as if to collect his thoughts. "You saw him again?"
prompted the Deputy. "Alas, yes! He came to me and tempted me, and I succumbed.
For a sum of money I agreed to assist him in his scheme. I knew I was doing a
criminal act, but the bribe he offered me quieted all my scruples," Ucelli
resumed. "I am a poor man, and I fell!" "How much did he offer you?" demanded
Vinci. "It was fifty thousand liras," replied Ucelli. "Imagine, Excellency, the
temptation to a poor man like myself!" "Fifty thousand liras!" exclaimed the
Deputy. "It is a large sum of money." "Fifty thousand liras," thought Gilbert;
"how much is that in English money?" A mental calculation showed him that it was
nearly two thousand pounds. Where, he wondered, had Silwood got such a sum? But
Ucelli was speaking. "Yes, he offered me fifty thousand liras," repeated the
Syndic, "and I swallowed the bait--like a fool. But I did not consent all at
once. I knew the proceeding he proposed was dangerous in the extreme; but he
allayed my fears by declaring it was impossible that it should ever be found
out." The Syndic stopped, overcome with self-pity. "Well," cried Vinci; "what
next?" "His proposal was that I should have him in my house here, and soon after
he was to pretend to be ill of cholera. After a short interval it was to be
given out that he had died, while I was to have an imaginary body buried. There
were so many deaths here at the time, and consequently so much confusion, that
there was no difficulty in carrying out his plan." "So you were right," said the
Deputy to Gilbert. "I issued a false certificate, and at Silwood's dictation
penned the letter sent to Mr. Eversleigh's father," went on the Syndic, now bent
on leaving nothing untold. "And it was he who arranged I should have in my
possession the letters, money, clothes, and other articles which belonged to
him." "To give colour to the fiction of Silwood's death?" asked the Deputy.
"Precisely. I thought we had foreseen everything, and that discovery was
impossible. Alas! but we are blind fools! I hoped, when inquiries came, I should
be able to satisfy them easily. The two men who came to make inquiries before
Mr. Eversleigh, I had no difficulty with." It was Gilbert's turn to be amazed.
"What?" he cried. "Two men before me! What do you mean?" "Ah, you did not know
of them?" said the Syndic. "One was a detective of the English police, the other
was a journalist, but they went empty away." "Do you know their names?" "Am I
likely to forget anything or anybody connected with this affair?" asked Ucelli.
"No; the name of the detective was Brydges, of Scotland Yard; that of the other
was Westgate, a man on the staff of a London journal, the _Morning Call_." The
names conveyed no meaning to Gilbert, but he was filled with wonder. Thinking it
over later, he saw it must have been suspected by others that Silwood was not
dead, and he guessed these inquiries had been made in connection with the
finding of Thornton's body in Silwood's rooms in Lincoln's Inn. The knowledge
that the detective and the journalist had been at Camajore, however, gave him a
bad turn; he was afraid to think what might have happened to his father if
either of them had stumbled on the truth. "I know neither of them," said Gilbert
to the Syndic. "They got nothing from me," resumed Ucelli. "I felicitated myself
on getting rid of them without trouble. And then you came, Mr. Eversleigh, and I
imagined you were as satisfied as they had been. I was a blind fool, a blind
fool!" "You see I was sure Silwood was not dead," remarked Gilbert. "Do you know
where he is?" eagerly inquired the Syndic. "No, I don't; I hoped you would
know." The Syndic shook his head. Signor Vinci darted an angry look at him. "I
don't know," persisted Ucelli, seeing the look. "What occurred after the so-
called death of Silwood?" asked the Deputy. "How did he get out of the country?
It's plain he did not go as Silwood. If he had plenty of money, as I suppose his
giving you fifty thousand liras shows, he would be able to procure disguises,
have his own carriage, and journey as he liked." "Mr. Silwood," replied Ucelli,
"is undoubtedly a very rich man, as you suggest. He had an abundance of money."
Gilbert startled the other two men by suddenly rising from his chair with a
vehement ejaculation. "Silwood a rich man?" he cried. "Beyond question, a very
rich man." Here was a new idea to Gilbert--new with a vengeance! Silwood rich!
Then what about Silwood's alleged losses on the Stock Exchange? he asked
himself. Were they fictitious too? Or--what? "Silwood is rich," continued the
Syndic, "but it took very little money to get him out of the country, as it
happened. His scheme had taken account of that, and he brought with him a
disguise--a disguise as complete as any I ever saw; no one could have recognized
him in it. By taking off his wig, putting on a moustache, staining his face and
hands, and touching up his cheeks with some paint, he became another man
altogether. Then he had clothes with him--such clothes, he told me, as any
British workman might wear--and these he wore. The disguise was perfect, and
must have been carefully studied. In the night I guided him out of Camajore, and
set him on the way to Lucca, which he reached; thence he went on to Genoa, where
he took ship for England. But he was delayed at Genoa--there was an accident;
how it came about is not known, but he was stabbed in the street." "Stabbed in
the street!" exclaimed Gilbert, on whom the full light was now breaking. "Yes;
he telegraphed for me to go to him, and I went. He said that to prosecute the
man who had stabbed him would be fatal, and I arranged there should be no
prosecution. Besides, his wound was not serious; he had merely to lie quiet for
some days." "Under what name did Silwood go when he was thus disguised?" asked
Gilbert, though he knew what the reply would be. "James Russell," said the
Syndic. CHAPTER XXXIV

"James Russell! I thought so," said Gilbert, tingling with excitement. "Is this
of importance to you?" the Deputy asked Gilbert. "Of the utmost importance." The
Deputy smiled, and showed he was well pleased; but he asked no more questions,
save one only. "Is there anything else about which you wish to interrogate
Ucelli?" he inquired. "Yes. I should like to know if he is aware where Silwood,
_alias_ Russell, went to in England?" "London," said the Syndic; "but he
intended going to America eventually." "That is all, I think, at present," said
Gilbert to Signor Vinci. "Should some other point occur to you later," suggested
the Deputy, "you will have an opportunity of putting it to him in Rome, whither
we must proceed with all speed." "I had thought of setting out for London at
once," said Gilbert. "The information I have obtained should be acted on without
delay. Besides, my father is very ill."

"If you could spare one day! You are a witness to the confession of Ucelli, and
I desire you to make a deposition with respect to it before the Minister of
Justice himself." "I certainly owe you as much as that," acquiesced Gilbert.
Thereafter, the Deputy, leaving the bound man in Gilbert's charge, went out of
the Syndic's house, to return in a short time with a couple of civil officers,
who took Ucelli to prison. The Deputy now informed Gilbert that he had given
orders to open up the reputed grave of Silwood, and late that evening they heard
a coffin had been taken up and found to be filled with stones. Next day the
Deputy and Gilbert were in Rome, recounting to the Minister of Justice what had
taken place. A deposition was drawn up and signed by Gilbert; at the same time,
he acknowledged very heartily his great obligations to the Minister and the
Deputy. "Not at all," said the Minister; "you have really conferred a great
favour on us. But there is one thing I should like to ask you, if it is not
indiscreet." "And that is, signor?" "We know why Ucelli entered into this
conspiracy with Silwood; it was because of the fifty thousand liras Silwood gave
him. But we do not know what induced or compelled Silwood to act as he did. I
can see, of course, that in all probability he is a great criminal. For that
matter, the conspiracy itself was a crime of the gravest character. If I could
arrest this Silwood, he would receive a heavy sentence, you may be sure." While
his superior was speaking, the Deputy had a little smile on his grim face. He
had wished to ask Gilbert the question now put to him by the Minister, but,
feeling tolerably certain of the truth, had refrained. Still, he listened
eagerly to Gilbert's reply. "Silwood is an absconder and a forger," said
Gilbert. "To conceal his crimes, to cover up his tracks, he planned and carried
out, with Ucelli's help, this infamous plot. There, that is all." "And more than
enough!" exclaimed the Minister. "You will, as soon as you return to England,
proceed to have this man hunted down?" "It will be the one object of my life
until it is accomplished," said Gilbert, emphatically. On his way back to
London, Gilbert pondered what he should next do, and reflected on the
occurrences of the last two or three days. The whole scheme of Silwood was now
tolerably plain. To begin with, it was evident Silwood had long been leading a
double life. There were the wife and child and the house at Stepney on the one
hand; and, on the other, the private chambers in Lincoln's Inn. In the latter he
was Cooper Silwood, solicitor; in Stepney he was James Russell, workman. And now
Gilbert recalled very vividly the story told by the waster, the poor human wreck
who spoke like a gentleman, the story of the workman seen issuing in the dead of
night from the iron gate of the Stone Buildings' end of Chancery Lane. "Of
course, it was Silwood," argued Gilbert; "it must have been he. The waster said
the workman was flurried, went away hurriedly, but returned in half an hour.
What does that mean, taken in connection with the fact that next morning Silwood
left London? It must have been no light thing which made _him_ flurried. He
intended going to Stepney, started, and then changed his mind. Not like _him_
either, to change his mind in that way. Something must have happened." Then the
thought came leaping into his mind which explained everything. "It must have
been because Morris Thornton was lying dead in Silwood's room--that accounts for
his agitation and indecision." After that he asked himself the inevitable
question--

"Had Silwood said or done anything to cause such a shock to Thornton as killed
him? If so, what?" But this was a question he could not answer now. The key to
the mystery lay with Silwood, and it was possible, even probable, he had made
good his escape to America, if it was to America he was gone. America was a wide
word, Gilbert mused, but the arm of Justice was long. Yet the search all over
America--was that not like looking for a needle in a haystack? And the time
which would almost certainly be occupied in the quest--what might not happen in
the interim? With these questions, and such as these, Gilbert was distracted
during his journey, and the news which met him on his arrival in London made his
heart heavy as lead. His brother Ernest was at the station when his train
steamed in. Gilbert observed he looked pale and sad. "How is father?" were
Gilbert's first words. "Oh, it is terrible!" exclaimed Ernest. "Is he worse?"
"Yes, he is worse. He will never be himself again, I fear. He is out of his
mind." "Out of his mind!" cried Gilbert, but in his heart he was saying it was
no wonder that his father had become insane, considering all he had borne during
the past two months. "Isn't it dreadful?" "It may be only temporary," Gilbert
suggested. "The doctors who have seen him do not give us much hope." "You have
had specialists called in?" "Certainly." "What form does his trouble take?" "He
is not at all violent; indeed, he is gentleness itself. But his memory seems a
blank, and he does not speak except to say one sentence, and it breaks one's
heart to hear him say it." "What does he say?" "He asks, 'What o'clock is it?'
but he does not know what he says. If you tell him the time, he does not
comprehend you. That was how mother found his trouble out. One night he had a
sort of fit in bed; when it passed he asked, 'What o'clock is it?' and mother
told him. He asked again, 'What o'clock is it?' and mother again told him. But
he immediately inquired once more, 'What o'clock is it?' and then she began to
surmise something was very wrong with him." "Poor mother!" exclaimed Gilbert.
"How is she?" "She is a brave woman, and is bearing up wonderfully. Well, she
waited till morning, and then sent me for a doctor, who, after seeing father,
said his brain was affected. I got the best specialists to see him, and they
declared his mind had given way, so far as they could judge, from overstrain. It
seems that the gentle kind of melancholy madness which afflicts him is
incurable. Isn't it sad?" "Very sad; but doctors are sometimes wrong, and we
must hope for the best. Is he at Ivydene?" "Yes; with a nurse. The doctors
thought it was prudent to have a nurse, though, really, he does not require one.
He is just like a child. I have not allowed news of his trouble to get about."
The brothers now got into a hansom, and drove to Gilbert's chambers in the
Temple. Gilbert could see that Ernest had more to tell him, and half guessed
what it was. In the circumstances, too, Gilbert thought Ernest must now be told
the true position of the firm of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh. "When your
letter to father came," continued Ernest, "he was already in the condition he
now is, so I opened and read it. As I wired you, I was completely bewildered by
what you wrote, but tried to puzzle out your meaning. Without the key, however,
I could not succeed." "I'll disclose everything to you, Ernie," said Gilbert.
"And, Gilbert, there is something more. The doctors said father's trouble came
from his brain having been overstrained. I believe they are right, and I'll tell
you why. I had to make out the position of our firm with respect to the
securities of one of our clients, Mr. Archibald Johnstone, and, so far as I can
see, we have not got these securities; at any rate, I cannot lay my hands on
them anywhere in the office. I went to Archer Martin, the accountant, hoping he
might throw some light on the subject; but he said I had better ask you, as you
would know. Gilbert, Gilbert, I don't know what to think, but it looks to me as
if there's something very serious in this business." "Yes, Ernie, there is,"
said Gilbert; "it is as serious as it can be. It is so serious that I can almost
feel glad father is not in his right mind." "Gilbert!" "It is true. Now let me
tell you all I know. The main thing is that Cooper Silwood robbed the firm of a
large sum of money. He absconded to Camajore, in Italy, where, in collusion with
the Syndic of the place he gave out that he was dead." Ernest stared at his
brother wildly. "What are you saying?" he cried. "Silwood robbed the firm!
absconded to Italy! pretended he was dead!" "Exactly. But I must begin at the
beginning, and tell you the whole story in detail." When he had heard it all,
Ernest was thunderstruck. "This Silwood must be a devil!" he cried. "Ay, a devil
in cleverness, in ingenuity, in resource, in cunning, and we have to encounter
and defeat these qualities in him. He must be found." "The police?" "Can we
afford to let them know our affairs?" "No; I suppose not. Would you employ
private detectives?" "Yes; there are very excellent private detective agencies
in America, such as Pinkerton's. As I have already told you, I have a man in
England following up the trail of Silwood, whom he knows only as James Russell.
He may have something to report." There were several letters lying on Gilbert's
table. Owing to the urgency of his talk with Ernest, he had not looked at them;
he now did so, hoping that one of them was from the detective, and this hope
proved well-founded. The detective wrote that he had discovered in the list of
steerage passengers, kept by one of the Liverpool shipping firms, an entry of
"James Russell, wife, and child." From inquiries he had made, he had learned
that the child was a cripple; this fact, together with the name, James Russell,
and the numbers in the party, agreed with what he had been told of the Russells
who had lived in No. 99, Douglas Street, Stepney, so that he had very little
doubt that he was on the right trail. He went on to state that the Russells had
sailed for New York and had arrived there, as he had ascertained from his
correspondent in that city. On landing, Russell had declared he was an
immigrant, and having been informed that by American law it was necessary to
show he was possessed of a certain stipulated sum of money, had produced it, and
was allowed to enter the country. Russell had also declared his intention to go
West, mentioning St. Paul in the State of Minnesota as his probable destination.
These facts, the detective added, were communicated to him by cable, and he
asked for further instructions. Gilbert handed the letter to Ernest, remarking
here was some good news. "Oh, if we can only catch Silwood soon!" cried Ernest,
after perusing the letter. CHAPTER XXXV

"To catch Silwood! Yes, that is the business we must press to a conclusion;
everything must give way to it!" said Gilbert, energetically. "I shall wire the
detective to cable his American correspondent to continue his search." Then
Gilbert was silent for a while, meditating deeply. "Bennet's trial," he said at
length, "is fixed for the middle of November, is it not, Ernie?" "Yes, November
15th, at York. North Eastern Circuit; Judge, Warrender," replied Ernest,
quickly. "That would give me six weeks," remarked Gilbert, thoughtfully. "What!
Do you intend going to the United States after Silwood? Six weeks is rather a
short period." "Of course it is, but it might be enough. I believe I ought to
go, and I have a presentiment I shall succeed. St. Paul is a long way off,
though." Gilbert now consulted an atlas. "I see," said he, "St. Paul is just
about half-way across the American continent. Still, I should be able to reach
it in ten days. Say twenty days for going and returning, that leaves twenty and
odd days for hunting the man down. Yes, I'll go. Will you arrange about a
steamer, while I run across to Surbiton to see father, mother, and Helen?" "Yes.
But are you not counting too much on Silwood's being at St. Paul? You don't
really know he is there at all." "I trust I'm not. My opinion is that Silwood
was sure of the working of his scheme; so much so, he took no trouble to cover
up his movements. When he said he was going to St. Paul, I imagine he stated the
truth. Still, I may be wrong. But I shall soon know." "You think he was so
confident he had obliterated the past, so to speak, that he took no further
precautions?" "That's just my idea. Anyhow, I wish you would inquire about
steamers, and secure a berth for me on the first one that goes out. Meanwhile
I'll go over to Ivydene." "All right," said Ernest, and went across to the
office in Lincoln's Inn. There he rang up the shipping companies on the
telephone, and finally arranged for a passage on the _St. Louis_, which was
leaving Southampton next morning. He remembered it was the _St. Louis_ by which
Morris Thornton had returned to England, and it struck him as of good augury
that his brother should sail on it in pursuit of Silwood, who had so marred the
fortunes of Thornton and them all. The brothers met again late in the afternoon,
and Ernest told Gilbert that he had taken a berth for him in this vessel, and,
as it sailed on the morrow about noon, he must at once make preparations for
leaving. "I am very glad that I start so soon," remarked Gilbert. "I feel as if
I must be moving and doing something towards getting on Silwood's track. When I
saw poor father, I longed with all my soul to slay this man, this villain, who
has wrought us such terrible wrong, such irremediable mischief. I know now how a
murderer must feel--though to kill such a miscreant as Silwood would not be
murder; it would be like killing some poisonous reptile." "I understand your
feelings," said Ernest; "but if you meet him you must not give way to your
anger, just though it is. You must not forget that it is the money----"

"You may be sure I won't forget it," interrupted Gilbert. "But it made my blood
fairly boil when I saw father, and heard his parrot-like cry of 'What o'clock is
it?' He did not know me at all; he does not even know mother. It's frightfully
sad for her, poor dear. And we owe this whole trouble to that devil, Silwood! It
makes me savage to think of it!" "Yes, it's hard to bear. Now, is there anything
more I can do for you? Any matter to attend to?" "You might see the detective,
and tell him I have gone to New York, where I shall look up his correspondent."
"He had better cable across that you are going--that will prepare the way for
you." "Quite right," agreed Gilbert. "Are you coming to see me off to-morrow
morning?" "From Waterloo? Yes. Did you say anything to mother about going to
America?" "Yes, I told her of it. She was surprised; but I assured her I had no
option, but hoped to bring back good news." "Pray Heaven you may!" "Has anything
further been done in the case of Bennet?" asked Gilbert, after a minute's
silence. "I went to York, and, along with the local solicitor, had a
conversation with Bennet, but to no purpose. I never saw such an impracticable
man. He seemed all the time in a state of suppressed rage and fury; indeed, they
hardly were suppressed. He is more like a caged tiger than a man." "Does he know
about father's condition?" "No. I have kept it quiet, as I told you before. But
I fear we cannot keep it hid very long; it is bound to get out." "Are you to see
Bennet again soon?" "I must, and he is pretty sure to ask why father has not
come instead of me. He asked me that last time, and he was very rude when I told
him father was too ill to go to York. I'll have to tell him the truth sooner or
later. What do you think?" "I advise telling him the truth," said Gilbert. "Now,
Ernie, there's one thing I wish to ask you, and then I will go on with my
packing. I did not like to ask mother. Has she or Helen or any one heard how
Miss Thornton is?" "All that I can tell you," replied Ernest, "is, I was told
she had been to see Bennet in prison. Neither mother nor Helen has heard from or
of her, I feel quite sure." Gilbert sighed heavily, but said nothing. Next day
he was on board the _St. Louis_, and arrived, a week later, at New York. On the
pier he was met by the detective's correspondent, a slim, sharp-faced man,
called Matthews, who introduced himself. "I have news for you, Mr. Eversleigh,"
said Matthews, after they had exchanged a few words. "Good news, I hope?" asked
Gilbert. "I reckon it is pretty good," was the reply. "James Russell, the man
you want, is living in St. Paul with his wife and child. His house is in a poor
quarter of the city, and he don't seem well off. He goes about quite openly,
too, as if he had nothing to fear--I mean he don't try and hide himself. I have
an agent in St. Paul, and what I've told you is what he wired me; you can depend
on it." "This is indeed good news," said Gilbert, eagerly. "Now I must go on to
St. Paul. How long will it take me to get there?" "Two days, more or less. You
travel to Chicago first, and then on to St. Paul. So you will go straight there?
Have you any acquaintances or friends in St. Paul?" "I know no one there."
"Would you like a letter to my agent? He's as bright as a new dollar, and as
sharp as a needle." "Much obliged to you; by all means give me a note to him.
And now tell me about the trains, please; I am quite a stranger here." "D'you
wish to leave to-day?" "I hate to think of losing a minute needlessly," said
Gilbert, earnestly. "The matter is of the greatest importance." "So I guessed,"
observed Matthews. "I'll do the best I can for you." And he did. He made
everything easy for Gilbert, so that the latter had no difficulty in reaching
St. Paul well within two days after his arrival in New York. As he had
calculated, he was in St. Paul ten days after leaving London. Putting up at the
Merchant's Hotel, he at once tried to get into communication with Hankey,
Matthew's agent, on the telephone, but was disappointed. From a directory he
ascertained where Hankey's office was, and learning from the hotel clerk that it
was only a few blocks away, and not difficult to find, he set out for it. But he
did not reach it without having to ask his way several times from people he met
in the streets. Stopping at the junction of two streets, and uncertain whether
to go straight ahead or turn off, Gilbert consulted a policeman standing at the
corner. As he spoke, the sound of his voice, or rather his accent, attracted the
attention of a man who was passing by. Gilbert had his back to this pedestrian,
so that he did not see him. The pedestrian paused to make certain that he did
recognize Gilbert's voice; besides, he recognized Gilbert's figure. Then he
walked on slowly, and watched Gilbert's movements from a distance, taking care
to keep himself unobserved. The pedestrian was Cooper Silwood, _alias_ James
Russell, but it was in the latter character he now appeared. "What is he doing
here?" Silwood asked himself. "Is it a mere accident, or has he discovered
something? I must follow him and see where he goes--that may afford an
indication of his business here." And as he shadowed Gilbert from a safe
distance, and pondered the reason for his being in St. Paul, his keen
intelligence told him more and more insistently that Gilbert's visit to St. Paul
was concerned with him. Any doubt he had was dissipated when he saw Gilbert
enter the building in which were situated the offices of Hankey's Private
Detective Agency. "How much does he know?" wondered Silwood. "How does he know
it? What mistake have I made? what loophole left? I believed myself absolutely
safe; but now.... Well, St. Paul is no place any longer for me. I must leave it
at once, and go on to Winnipeg, and hide myself somewhere on the prairies of the
North-West." After a very short time, Gilbert reappeared and retraced his steps
to the Merchant's Hotel, whither Silwood, still at a safe distance, followed
him. "This is where he is stopping," thought Silwood, as he observed Gilbert
pass into the hotel. Then Silwood walked rapidly away. Gilbert had met with a
second disappointment. On calling at Hankey's Agency, he had been told Hankey
himself had that morning been summoned on urgent business to Minneapolis, and
would not return till the evening, when he would make a point of coming round to
the Merchant's. There was therefore nothing for it but to wait. Late in the
evening Hankey came. "I am sorry I am so late, but I could not help it!" he
exclaimed. "I have come straight to you from Minneapolis, without going to my
office first, as I knew you must be anxious to see me. Sorry I could not come
sooner, but it was an important case--defaulting bank president and cashier."
Gilbert nodded that he quite understood. "About James Russell," continued
Hankey. "I can put my hand on him at any time; he is kept under constant
observation, though he has no idea of it. Yet it hardly seems necessary, for he
walks about quite openly in the streets, sometimes alone, sometimes with his
wife. They have a lame, crippled child, which they have taken out once or
twice." "Is James Russell anything like this?" asked Gilbert, handing Hankey a
photograph of Silwood. "About the same height, perhaps, but otherwise quite
different." "Yet it is the same man," said Gilbert. "If so--and I don't doubt
your word--what a splendid disguise he has assumed! Case of absconding?" asked
Hankey. "Do you wish him arrested?" "By-and-by; but first I must try to get him
to disgorge. He has absconded with a large sum of money." "Much?" "Between three
and four hundred thousand pounds." "Nearly two million dollars!" exclaimed
Hankey. "Mr. James Russell must be a pretty smart man. Two million! I confess to
a certain admiration for a man who can rake in as big a pot as that. Well, I
should say it would be very difficult to make a man of that calibre disgorge.
How do you intend doing it?" "I thought you might be able to suggest some plan."
"Well, I reckon that is possible. First thing is to get hold of Russell--and
it'll have to be a tight hold, you bet." "Of course. I admit I don't see what to
do; but it seems to me I remember reading of a case the Pinkertons had, in which
they had the criminal seized--it was also a case of embezzlement--and kept in a
room till he disgorged. They did not put him into prison; they kept him a
prisoner in a room in a house of their own." "I guess something of the kind has
happened," remarked Hankey; "but it sounds rather like a bit out of a dime
novel. You suggest I should attempt the same game with James Russell, is that
it?" "It is just an idea; I don't say you should act upon it. Is there any plan
in your mind?" "Not at the moment. I'll sleep on it, and come round in the
morning." "Very well. But of course you understand I wish the business concluded
as speedily as possible." "Quite so. I'll be here early in the morning." Gilbert
could not get to sleep easily that night. He was possessed by a feeling of
intense excitement; but at last he fell into a restless slumber. It seemed to
him that he had just closed his eyes when he was awakened by a loud knocking at
his door. "What is it?" he cried. "It's Hankey. I must see you at once. Most
urgent!" Gilbert sprang out of bed instantly, and admitted the detective.
CHAPTER XXXVI

"Sorry to disturb you so unceremoniously," said Hankey, "but it is necessary. I
bring you unexpected news of supreme moment. Please dress, and while you are
dressing I will tell you of a very startling development in the Russell affair."
"Is the news good or bad?" "Good, I think; but time alone will disclose that.
But please dress as quickly as you can, for you will have to go on a journey
immediately. I have taken the liberty of ordering something for you to eat, and
it should be here in a minute or two. You have just half an hour in which to
catch the train you must travel by." "What is the news?" asked Gilbert, going on
dressing all the while. "Well, last night, after I left you, I went to my
office, late as it was, and I found one of my subordinates waiting for me. It
was the man whose duty it was to shadow Russell. He reported that he had kept
sight of him until he went into his own house. My man then hung about, and after
some time, a conveyance drove up, into which presently Russell, his wife and
child got. He followed them to the railway depot, and finally saw them depart in
the Northern Pacific Express for Winnipeg." "Gone!" exclaimed Gilbert; "and with
a start of half-a-day! And James Russell leaves St. Paul the very day I arrive.
That's curious. Had he got warning? But how?" "Perhaps he saw you in the streets
yesterday--you were about a good deal, were you not?" "Yes; that may be it." "It
does not matter much, anyhow; the fact remains that he went away last night."
"And I must go after him at once. That's what you mean?" "That's part of it; but
there is more to tell you, much more. For, this morning, about forty minutes ago
--oh, I lost no time, you will perceive--one of my men who has to be on duty all
night at my office, came to my house and woke me up. He was aware Russell was on
board the Northern Pacific Express going to Winnipeg last night, and he had come
hot-foot to show me an early edition of the _Pioneer Press_--that's our leading
paper--in which there is a long account of a dreadful accident to this very
express. It had collided with a freight train, both trains being wrecked and
smashed to pieces. Many of the passengers have been killed, and most of the
survivors are badly injured." "And Russell?" Gilbert inquired breathlessly. "He
is not in the list of the dead; his name appears amongst those whose injuries
are probably fatal. This is why I am hurrying you up. If you wish to see him
alive, you must catch the first train. Now, do you see? Was not my knocking you
up in this way justified?" "Yes, indeed. I am grateful to you for your zeal. How
far up the line was the accident?" "A few miles south of Glyndon. You can be
there in a comparatively short time." "I think I should like you to come with
me," said Gilbert, after a brief silence; "that is, if you are disengaged." "I
can manage to come all right, and I should like to know the end; though it's
possible the man may recover. On the other hand, if he knows he is certain to
die, there's just a chance he may be willing to own up and make restitution, if
that's in his power." "A death-bed confession! Now, I should say," remarked
Gilbert, "Russell is the last man on earth to make one." But now there appeared
a waiter with a tray on which was some breakfast, and the conversation stopped.
Ten minutes later, Gilbert and Hankey were speeding northwards on the Northern
Pacific to the scene of the collision, where they arrived in due course. On the
way up, every one was talking of the appalling disaster. Many in the train were
relatives of the victims, and the whole atmosphere was charged with grief and
sorrow. Gilbert Eversleigh was too young and too sensitive not to sympathize
with and share these feelings. They made such an impression on him that the
vengeance he cherished, and the hatred he felt for Silwood were decidedly
modified, though he was scarcely aware of it himself. The express stopped some
fifty yards away from the spot where the collision had taken place. When Gilbert
and the detective alighted, they saw an enormous crowd had already gathered
together, large numbers having flocked in from the surrounding country. For the
most part, it was a quiet and silent crowd. The Shadow of Death lay heavy upon
it; here and there, however, were little groups weeping and sobbing and wringing
their hands. In the midst of one stood a woman, suddenly crazed, who alternately
screamed and laughed. The scene was such, the circumstances were such, that they
could not fail to make an ineffaceable impression on Gilbert's mind. It was an
unparalleled scene of destruction. In the centre was the wreck of the two trains
lying on the torn and twisted rails. The engines were piled high in the middle,
with their colossal frames seamed, cracked, broken, burnt, and bent into queer
shapes. Some of the coaches and carriages of the ill-fated express had been
smashed into matchwood, others lay about in large pieces and dislocated
sections, and the whole formed a confusion of wood, glass, and other materials,
rendered more terrible from the fact that fire had swept its destroying torch
over a large part of it. And it was whispered there were bodies, or what had
once been bodies, lying somewhere in that chaos! Gangs of railroad men were
struggling to bring some sort of order into it, but their progress was
necessarily slow. Now and again a charred and blackened object, which had lost
all semblance to anything human, was dug up and carried away. On one side of the
wreck two large tents had been erected: one was used as a mortuary, to which the
dead were carried; the other served as a hospital for the injured and wounded,
where they were tended by doctors from the vicinity, who had volunteered their
services. It was to the hospital tent that Gilbert and Hankey directed their
steps, but they experienced considerable difficulty in gaining admission.
However, at last they were allowed in, and a doctor, of whom they inquired, told
them James Russell was still alive, was indeed likely to live for two days or
perhaps longer, but that the nature of the injuries he had received made his
recovery impossible. He was quite conscious, and knew he was dying. "He would be
glad to see some one he knows," added the doctor. "How are his wife and child?"
"Both are injured, but not seriously. I have not told them of Russell's
condition." "Is there any objection, doctor," asked Gilbert, "to my speaking to
him at once?" "None at all, I think," replied the physician, and he led them to
the pallet on which lay Russell, his head and shoulders swathed in bandages, and
his face, where visible, extraordinarily pinched and white. The false moustache
which he had worn as part of his disguise was gone, the paint had been washed
from his cheeks, and Gilbert had no difficulty whatever in identifying Cooper
Silwood in "James Russell." "It is he," he whispered to Hankey. Hankey peered
into the face. "He is now more like that photograph you showed me," said Hankey
beneath his breath to Gilbert. Gilbert went and stood over Silwood, and looked
him in the eyes. The dying man evinced no surprise at seeing him, but returned
Gilbert's gaze calmly. He was the first to speak. "Gilbert Eversleigh," he said
in a queer voice, that had no weakness in it. "I expected you to come, but not
so soon. How is it you are here so quickly? The telegram I sent by the doctor to
you at the Merchants' Hotel was despatched only two hours ago." "You sent me a
telegram!" said Gilbert, astonished, but not so much so as not to note Silwood
knew he had been stopping at the Merchants'. "I have not received it. The reason
I am here is, I was aware you were on board the express, and hearing of the
accident, I came at once on the chance of speaking to you." "You knew I was on
the express?" "Yes; your movements yesterday were observed." "I see," said
Silwood, thoughtfully. Then he added, "Well, it does not signify now--nothing
signifies any more to me!" Silwood pronounced these words in a firm voice,
though strongly tinged with regret. Gilbert stood by in silence, many feelings
working within him. "Nothing matters any more to me personally," continued
Silwood; "but there are others of whom I must think, for they are dear to me. It
was because of them, it was for their sakes, that I sent you the telegram. I
asked the doctor to tell me the truth, the whole truth, about my state; and when
he told me that I should not last more than two or three days, I had to consider
the best course to take. What helped me to make up my mind was the certainty you
had made some discovery--otherwise, I reasoned, you would not have been in St.
Paul yesterday. Had this accident not occurred, and if I had been alone, I
should have succeeded in baffling you; even hampered by my wife and the boy, I
believe I could have managed to escape pursuit. But now I am dying, and my wife
and child would soon have been hunted down when left to themselves. Therefore I
resolved to ask you to come to me." Silwood paused, his breath coming a little
more quickly than before. "But why?" asked Gilbert. "I wished to make a bargain
with you." "To make a bargain!" "Yes. I thought of offering to tell you the
whole truth if you would consent to make provision for my wife and child. She is
an uneducated woman, and the boy is a cripple. They are two helpless creatures,
and they are absolutely innocent; they do not even know my real name. They
believe I am----"

"James Russell!" "Yes! You know that! That is what I thought, else you would not
have been in St. Paul. Will you consent to make some provision for them, if I
declare everything without concealment or reserve? I do not know how much you do
know?" he added inquiringly. "I know a good deal, but not all. I know you did
not lose the money on the Stock Exchange, as you told my father, but that you--
appropriated it to your own use, and still have it, I imagine. Is it not so?"
"Yes. That money shall be restored to you in trust for your father and the firm,
if you will accede to my suggestion about my wife and child. What more do you
know?" "I know you led a double life, and that you entered into a conspiracy
with Ucelli, the Syndic of Camajore. But I do not know what passed between you
and Morris Thornton the night he died." "I will tell you the whole story," said
Silwood, "if you will agree to see my wife and child suitably provided for."
"And if I refuse?" "Refuse! You will not refuse. Consider! In forty-eight or
fifty hours I shall be dead. Nothing can alter that. I shall be where the hand
of the law cannot touch me. What can you do against a dead man? Personal
vengeance on me is impossible. On the other hand, if you will do what I wish,
then I will tell you where the money is, so that you will have no difficulty in
obtaining it. You have much to gain and nothing to lose by falling in with my
desire." "But I shall be able to get at the money in any case." "No, that you
never shall unless you get my help." Gilbert thought for a while. The coolness
of Silwood's proposition startled him; yet there was much to recommend it. "Let
me consider for a few moments what you have said," he remarked to Silwood; "and
I will tell you my decision." CHAPTER XXXVII

Beckoning to Hankey, the detective, to follow him, Gilbert went from the
hospital tent into the open air to consider quietly what he should do. He was
not sorry to get out of the atmosphere of the tent, which reeked with iodoform;
where also the sight of so many poor stricken and agonized wretches harrowed his
feelings. Just outside the tent, he encountered the doctor who had conducted him
to the bedside of Cooper Silwood, _alias_ James Russell. "Did you find him quite
sensible, as I said?" asked the doctor. "Extraordinarily so," replied Gilbert,
"His mind is perfectly clear, even his voice shows no weakness. One would
scarcely think he is dying." "And yet nothing can save him. For two or three
hours longer he will remain in much the same condition; thereafter a state of
collapse must supervene, which will end in death--during that period he will
become unconscious, and remain so to the last." "Of course, you must know," said
Gilbert; "but from the strong, firm voice he speaks in, one would imagine he is
not in this desperate case." "It is so, however. The principal mischief is
internal, and does not admit of cure." Then the doctor hurried into the tent.
What he had said had given fresh point to those words of Silwood's--"You can do
nothing against a dead man. Personal vengeance upon me is impossible." The hand
of Heaven, Gilbert reflected, already lay heavy on the man. Then he debated the
offer made by Silwood. From the first he had inclined to accept it. What he had
witnessed of the calamity had softened his heart; and to find Silwood cared for
his wife and child in the way he evidently did, was a discovery of a side,
entirely unsuspected, of this man's nature, which somehow appealed to Gilbert.
These were sentimental influences, but became powerful reasons when added to the
practical argument, the immediate recovery of the stolen money. Gilbert did not
altogether believe that the money, or a large part of it, at any rate, could not
be recovered without Silwood's help, but it might be a long and tedious
business, involving, likely enough, considerable litigation, expense, and delay.
Then there was the secret of Morris Thornton's death to be cleared up--a thing
which Silwood alone could do. Gilbert quickly made up his mind that the best
policy was to accept Silwood's offer. Rapidly outlining the main facts to
Hankey, who listened with an ever-increasing wonder, Gilbert desired him to
accompany him into the tent to act as witness to the statement of Silwood.
"Well?" asked Silwood, as Gilbert bent over him. "I agree. You will hold nothing
back?" "I am glad, for the sake of my wife and our child," said Silwood. "No,
nothing shall be held back. But who is this man?" he asked, his eyes glancing at
Hankey. "I asked him to come as a witness." "Very well; he'll be a witness to
what you promise for my wife and child, as well as of what I tell you. So be it.
What do you promise for them?" "What do you wish me to promise exactly?" "That
you pay her three pounds a week for life, and that, should she die before the
child, you will continue the payment to him for his life." "Yes, I promise that,
contingent----"

"Certainly, you mean contingent on your receiving the money? That is understood.
Now, ask one of the doctors to come here?" One of the doctors was called up.
"Doctor," said Silwood, "will you go and ask my wife, Mrs. James Russell, who is
lying in the tent somewhere, to give you the key she has on the ribbon round her
neck? Say that I sent you; give her my love, and tell her I am comfortable."
There were tears in Silwood's eyes as he spoke the last words. Seeing them,
Gilbert marvelled at the strange intricacies of the human soul, but held his
peace. "Your wife sends her love to you," said the doctor, on his return, "and
bids you not fret about her. Here is the key." "Thank you, doctor. Give the key
to this gentleman here," and Silwood with his eyes indicated that it should be
given to Gilbert. This done, the doctor retired. "That key," Silwood resumed,
"is the key of a compartment in the Minnesota Safety Deposit Vaults, in which
you will find not only all the money, in the form of bank-notes, bonds payable
to bearer, and other easily negotiable securities, that I owe to the firm of
Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh, but a good deal more than I owe." "Where are
these Safety Deposit Vaults?" asked Gilbert. "In St. Paul," whispered Hankey,
bending towards him. "Yes, in St. Paul," said Silwood, who had overheard. "And
all the money is there in bonds and so forth?" asked Gilbert. "That and more,
for I have made money. Always, always, all my life, have I longed to possess a
great store of money; it was my passion--money, money, always money; always more
money," said Silwood, with a passing gleam in his eyes; then a deep sigh escaped
him. "You will find there is far more than enough to recoup the firm." Gilbert
listened in amazement, revolving what manner of man this was to have acted as he
had done through all these silent years. "And more than enough to pay that
annuity to my wife and child," Silwood went on. "Now promise me once more that
you will pay them what I have asked, and then I will tell you the whole story.
Do you promise?" "Yes, I promise," said Gilbert. "Then my mind is at rest, so
far as they are concerned. And all is well," said Silwood, as if he had never
done anything wrong in his life. Then he began--

"I do not know quite when the idea came to me of making myself master of the
clients' money, but, as I told you, I ever burned to be rich. Your father was so
easy-going and unsuspecting, and he trusted me so fully, that when the idea came
it found quick lodgment in my thoughts. But what helped more than anything else,
was that I was already leading a double life. I had married beneath me, as
people would say; but the only moments of happiness I have had in my life
connect themselves with my wife and child. It matters not how I met and came to
marry her. No one of our class dreamed I was other than Cooper Silwood,
solicitor, of Lincoln's Inn. But I was also James Russell at Stepney. I
experienced no difficulty in being both; I had my disguise, and having also the
keys of the two iron gates opening into Chancery Lane, at the top of Stone
Buildings, I was able to let myself out or in at pleasure. To lead this double
life was easy, I say; I even liked it. When the thought came to me of enriching
myself at the expense of the clients, it occurred to me to make use of James
Russell to assist Cooper Silwood. Do you understand?" "Yes. You purposed to
transfer the securities to yourself as James Russell? In fact, that is what you
did do, at any rate in part." "Yes; Cooper Silwood sold to James Russell,"
assented Silwood. "The plan worked well--worked well for years. Gradually I got
possession of everything--save what was impossible for me to touch. And all that
money and property I had converted into first-class bonds and shares payable to
bearer, with one exception, a very important exception, when the letter came
from Morris Thornton, telling us he was returning to England, and would make a
formal examination of the securities we held of his. I was not prepared for it;
my hand was forced. I had not meant to disappear until I had completed a certain
negotiation--the exception to which I have just referred. It was more than
possible, I thought, that Thornton would come before that negotiation was
complete, in which case I might be in great danger. The more I thought about it,
the greater the danger seemed. It was this that drove me to tell your father of
the position to which I, as Cooper Silwood, had brought the firm. Of course, I
said nothing to him about James Russell." "I don't quite follow you," said
Gilbert. "Why did you tell my father at all?" "Because I wished him, being so
friendly with Thornton, to hold Morris off until that negotiation was complete.
Do you not understand? Suppose Thornton had come before my plans were ripe and
asked for that examination, I believed your father would have been able to have
stood him off for some time--long enough for me to get that matter settled to my
liking. Now, do you see?" "Yes," said Gilbert, dryly, any pity he had felt for
Silwood disappearing as he listened to this heartless statement. "What was this
important negotiation of which you speak?" "I had sold some acres of land to a
contractor, who had paid a heavy price for them," said Silwood, now speaking
with the indifference of a man who is telling a story that has no longer any
interest for him; "but I had to be content with getting half the price in cash
and half in the form of a bill. The total amount was thirty thousand pounds, the
bill was for fifteen thousand, and when we heard from Thornton it still had some
time to run. I did not discount the bill, but put it in a chamber in that large
japanned box you may remember seeing in my room." "The secret chamber!"
exclaimed Gilbert. "You know of it?" "Did you not go one night to New Square not
long ago, and open it?" "Yes; you know that! I went to get the bill--it was due
next day." "I see. Well, you left the secret chamber open, and that showed us
you were not dead, and put us on your track." Silwood's eyes flickered. "The
spring would not work," he said. "It had baffled me very nearly once or twice
before, but that time it baffled me altogether. So! so! I understand now why you
came to St. Paul--it was the secret chamber which gave me away, which has
brought me here." "Yes; I went to Italy," said Gilbert, "and Ucelli confessed
the conspiracy you and he had entered into. He it was who told me that you and
James Russell were one. James Russell was tracked to Liverpool, then to New
York, and then to St. Paul." "What a pity I did not leave that bill alone!" said
Silwood, quite calmly. "But I could not think of leaving fifteen thousand pounds
behind me. That," he added, "you will find with the rest." "Did you cash the
bill?" "Certainly, as James Russell, to whom it was payable." "How in the
world," interjected Gilbert, "shall we be able to put all these matters right?"
"There will be plenty of money," said Silwood, "for everybody. But let me get on
with my story while I am able. I told you I put the bill for the fifteen
thousand into the secret chamber. Of course I hoped Thornton would not come
before it matured, or, if he did, that your father would find means to delay the
investigation of his account. But your father on this point was firm; he said he
would not deceive Thornton, though I pressed him more than once. When I saw I
could not move him, I prepared to act alone. I gave out I was about to take a
holiday--it was a holiday from which I had no intention to return--at least, not
as Cooper Silwood. I meant to leave on a Saturday evening--I actually went on
the Saturday morning ... and it was because of Thornton." "Of Morris Thornton?"
"It was past midnight," said Silwood, "and I was getting ready to go to Stepney,
when I heard steps coming up the stairs towards my rooms in Stone Buildings; the
steps stopped at my door; some one knocked. I had no wish to open the door, for
I was in my disguise, so I paid no attention to the sound. "'Whoever you are,'
said a voice, 'I warn you to open the door, or I shall tell the porter to call
the police. I saw you from Chancery Lane. Come, open at once!' "I glanced at my
window, the one looking into Chancery Lane. By some frightful carelessness I had
neglected to pull down the blind, and thus it was possible enough for the man to
have seen me. But what did he want, I wondered? "'Open at once!' said the voice
again; 'or it will be the worse for you.' "I was in a fix, but my best course
seemed to be to let the man in; so I asked him to wait a moment, saying I was
only half dressed. I hastily donned my wig, tore off my false moustache, and put
on my ordinary coat and waistcoat. Then I opened the door. "'What is the
matter?' I asked. "The man walked right into the room without speaking, and
looked all round it, as if he was searching for some one. Then I saw who it was.
It was Morris Thornton! "'What is the matter?' he repeated after me. 'That is
what I ask you to tell me, Cooper Silwood.... I arrived in London yesterday, and
was taken ill. Feeling better this evening, I came out to get some fresh air,
and strolled down this way. I remembered where your rooms were, and glancing up
at the lighted window saw a figure passing and repassing. I was certain it was
not you. This was a bald man with a moustache.... I watched him for some
minutes. Then I went down to the lodge and was let in, as I said I wished to see
you on urgent business. Now here I am, and here you are! Did you know about this
man being here--the man I saw? He gave me quite a start.' "I did not speak
immediately, being somewhat flurried by the sudden appearance of Thornton. He
now came quite close to me, and peered into my face. I saw he looked ill and
greatly changed, and his hands were shaking. He went on peering into my face, so
that I wondered why. "'What are you doing with that paint on your cheeks?' he
asked. "I had forgotten the stain on my face--the stain that was part of my
disguise. This question disconcerted me. "'Was it you, Cooper Silwood, that I
saw? It was! It was! What does this mean?' he demanded, visibly agitated. 'You
are not the kind of man who goes to a masked ball. One would think you were
practising, rehearsing some part ... a disguise ... seeing how it would do ...
but why, Silwood, why? One would think there was something wrong--that you were
about to abscond.' "All this he said in jerky sentences, while his cheeks turned
a horrible bluish purple. I recalled he had written to us that he was suffering
from heart-disease, and I was alarmed for him. "'Calm yourself, Morris,' I said
to him, soothingly, but with the opposite effect. "'Explain, explain!' he cried,
in tones of great excitement, his body trembling the while. "My wits by this
time had come back to me, and I assured him I had promised a young friend to go
to a masked ball to take care of him--that was all; and that I could not but
feel sorry he had caught me in the manner he had. In fact, I tried to laugh the
matter off; but I failed to disarm his suspicions, which evidently had been
keenly aroused. He sat down on a chair, breathing very heavily. I entreated him
to return to his hotel, but he declined. "'Cooper Silwood,' he said, 'I do not
believe you are telling me the truth. I do not believe this invention of yours
about the masked ball. Again I tell you, you are not that kind of man.' "'You do
not know what you are saying,' I protested, 'your illness----'

"'Enough, enough!' he cried, jumping up. Then he stood for a moment struggling
with himself as it were, clutched at his throat, staggered, and fell in a heap
on the floor. I rushed forward to raise him, but he was already dead. When I saw
he was dead, I was distraught. First I put on my disguise once more, and went
forth into the night, reeling like a blind man. But a few minutes' thought
induced me to return. I resolved to leave London by the earliest train, and did
leave next morning." Exhausted by this long effort, Silwood ceased speaking.
Gilbert never doubted Silwood had spoken the truth. Besides, he had noticed how
in several points his statements were confirmed by the evidence at the inquest
on Morris Thornton. The explanation of the Mystery of Lincoln's Inn was, after
all, curiously simple, once the facts were known in their entirety. "I believe I
have told you all," said Silwood, as Gilbert stood silently by his bed. "Is
there anything you wish to ask me? If there is, ask it now, for I feel a
dreadful weakness coming over me." As the man spoke, a shiver shook him from
head to foot. "No. I think there is nothing else," said Gilbert, gently, his
heart again softened. "You will not forget your promise about my wife and
child?" Silwood asked eagerly. "I shall not." "They need never know who Cooper
Silwood was, need they?" "Perhaps not," agreed Gilbert, but doubtingly. "If you
can, let them believe I am none other than the James Russell they love, and who
loves----"

But Silwood's voice failed him; his eyes overflowed. "Let us go," said Gilbert
to Hankey. "What an extraordinary man!" exclaimed Hankey to Gilbert, when they
were in the open air. "Wonderfully bright, too, but he chose to run crooked, not
straight. Yet there was good in the man--I suppose there is in every man." "He
was an evil, wicked man," said Gilbert, speaking of Silwood as one already dead,
"but he was not all evil, all wicked." CHAPTER XXXVIII

"What do you now intend to do?" asked the detective, after they had emerged from
the hospital tent. "Go back to St. Paul by the first train," Gilbert replied,
"and see what are the contents of that compartment in the Minnesota Safety
Deposit Vaults. I don't doubt Silwood told the truth, but I wish to have his
statement confirmed." "Naturally," remarked Hankey. "And after that?" "I think
of asking you, if you can manage it, to come with me to St. Paul to-day. I
should prefer to have you with me when I go to the Safety Deposit Vaults, where
you are probably well known----"

The detective nodded.

" ----thereafter, I propose that you should return here, and await events."
"Till Silwood is dead, I suppose you mean. And then?" "Take care of Mrs. Russell
and the child. If they wish to return to England, be kind enough to carry out
their desire. You shall have enough funds from me for all purposes. If they
elect to stay in this country, I want you to find them a home, and I will see
that the income promised is remitted to you quarterly." "Very good," said the
detective. "My business in this matter is your business. I'll go and see if
there's a train southwards soon." But they had to wait some hours, and it was
the morning of another day when they arrived in St. Paul. Gilbert and the
detective went to the Minnesota Safety Deposit Vaults, and on their representing
they had received the key of the compartment from James Russell, no objection
was made to their entering the place, and withdrawing the papers from the
receptacle in which they were deposited. On inspection these papers were found
to consist of Bank of England notes, of various values from £100 to £1000,
amounting in all to £40,000; of gold bonds of half a dozen different American
railroads, each bond of the value of a thousand dollars, coming in the aggregate
to nearly a quarter of a million sterling; of bonds of the United States
Government for more than £200,000; and of miscellaneous securities, the grand
total being upwards of half a million sterling. One feature of all these
certificates, bonds, and shares, was they were all payable to bearer, just as
Silwood had said, as also, of course, were the Bank of England notes. Half a
million sterling! Such was the vast sum Cooper Silwood had accumulated at the
expense of the clients of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh. Gilbert knew that
the amount, roughly speaking, for which the firm was responsible was about
£400,000. Here, then, was sufficient, and more, to satisfy all claims in full,
and leave a good deal over for Mrs. James Russell and her son. Gilbert resolved
that after the obligations of the firm were discharged, the balance should be
placed in trust for her and the boy. Having come to this conclusion, Gilbert
sent Hankey back to the scene of the catastrophe. Then he despatched a brief
cable to his brother Ernest, saying, "Russell found. Property recovered.
Returning." He was afraid to put more than these few words into the message,
lest by some mischance they should fall into the wrong hands. Without delay,
Gilbert left St. Paul for Chicago and New York, reaching the latter city in
about forty hours safely. The possession of the equivalent of half a million in
a bag, which he never for a moment let out of his sight, made him extremely
anxious and uneasy. During the journey from St. Paul to New York he did not
allow himself to sleep, but kept a determined eye on the bag. But no one
suspected he was the bearer of such an amount of riches, and he passed
comparatively unnoticed from start to finish. On reaching New York, he at once
went to the office of the line by which he had come from England, and was
pleased to hear that there was a ship going out that very day at two o'clock in
the afternoon, and that he could sail on her if he wished. He replied that it
would suit him admirably. After paying for his passage, he produced the bag, and
inquired if it could be placed in the ship's strong room, to which assent was
given. Gilbert now felt his mind was at rest. Yet during the voyage he was
visited now and again by misgivings, as he had heard that even the strong rooms
of Atlantic greyhounds have not always been burglar-proof. Then the ship was
struck by a tempest in mid-ocean, and Gilbert was afraid both he and the
treasure might go to the bottom. But at length the ship sailed into port, and
there, at the side of the dock, was Ernest waiting for him. After the two
brothers had embraced, and Ernest, in reply to Gilbert's inquiry, had told him
their father was in much the same condition as when Gilbert had seen him last,
he produced a cablegram, addressed to Gilbert, which had been received at the
office in Lincoln's Inn some five days before. "It is about Silwood, I think,"
said Gilbert. The cablegram was from Hankey; it ran as follows--

"Russell dead. Wife desires return England. Writing." "Silwood is dead," said
Gilbert, briefly. "Dead! I never thought to hear that!" exclaimed Ernest. "I
have much to tell you, Ernie; but wait until we are in the train. Besides, I
must get a bag out of the ship's strong room. There may be some little delay
over it; come with me." Gilbert went back to the ship, whence, a short time
afterwards, he issued, bearing the precious bag. "Do you see this bag?" he said
to his brother in a whisper. "It is worth half a million of money." "Gilbert!"
"It is the truth; it contains Silwood's hoard." In silence the brothers passed
into the train for London. Once it was well under way, Gilbert told Ernest all
that had happened. "Fancy Silwood being so attached to his wife and child!"
cried Ernest. "What a strange mixture he was! And now he is dead--really dead
this time! What a colossal failure he made of his life! And yet he could not
have carried out his schemes with the success he did achieve had he not been a
man of remarkable ability." "Yes; but he has made others suffer. Think of
father!" "Yes; and yourself, indirectly, and Kitty." "Any news of her?" asked
Gilbert, wistfully. "No." "Have you been again to York to see Bennet?" "No; but
Deakin, the local solicitor, has arranged for me to see him on Tuesday next."
Then there fell a silence between the brothers. Ernest was thinking over what he
had heard from Gilbert about Silwood and the recovery of the money and the
bonds; while Gilbert dwelt sadly on the image of Kitty, wondering how she was
bearing up and passing the time while Bennet lay in prison. Then his mind
shifted to the consideration of what still lay before Ernest and himself. "There
will be much to think of, much to do," he said to Ernest. "I mean with respect
to winding up the affairs of the firm." "Is it necessary, do you think, to wind
up its affairs?" "We must do something. What I thought was, that a letter to the
clients should be drawn up, stating that, as Silwood is dead and father
incapacitated by ill-health, the firm must be wound up; but that you--a son of
Francis Eversleigh, who had been for some time associated with him in the
business--proposed to begin a new business under the style of Eversleigh and
Eversleigh, and would be glad to have the same confidence extended to you by the
clients of the old firm as they had shown to Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh.
Something of that kind--that's what I thought." "Yes. There is one point," said
Ernest, thoughtfully. "The properties Silwood sold, such as house property and
land property; what is to be done about them?" "I don't think we need try to
replace them. In all such cases, I would go to the particular clients
themselves, tell them the truth, and offer full compensation. You must remember
Silwood's hoard amounts to far more than the firm owes, and you are perfectly
entitled to make every necessary use of it." When the brothers arrived in
London, their first care was to take the half-million bag to their bank, where
they deposited the money and left the bonds in the care of the manager. Then
they went to Lincoln's Inn, and proceeded to draft the letter Gilbert had
suggested. The following day these letters were despatched. One of them had a
singular result; it was that which was addressed to Harry Bennet. The brothers
had discussed what was to be done in his case, and had decided that, though
Bennet had given a discharge to the firm, yet he must be paid the value of the
property, Beauclerk Mansions, which Silwood had sold. So a special note had been
placed at the foot of the letter sent him, apprizing him of their intention. At
the same time a letter was sent to Deakin, the York solicitor, informing him
that as the firm of Eversleigh, Silwood and Eversleigh was being wound up, owing
to the continued ill health of the sole remaining partner, the firm could no
longer act with him for Bennet, and further, that Mr. Gilbert Eversleigh had
returned to them his brief in this case. The first result of this was that
Deakin came rushing up to London. He had seen Bennet, who, wild with rage and
defeated spite, had ordered him to go and see what was the meaning of this
change of front on the part of the Eversleighs. "Mr. Bennet," said Deakin, "is
the most reckless man I ever saw. He behaves like a lunatic, and says the most
mad things. He tells me--of course, I know it is absurd--that he can send Mr.
Francis Eversleigh to prison for embezzlement, and he demands again that Mr.
Gilbert Eversleigh appear for him at his trial." It was Ernest Eversleigh to
whom Deakin spoke. Ernest, acting on the advice of Gilbert, told Deakin in
confidence as much of the facts as was necessary, winding up by saying--

"My father, no doubt, might still be proceeded against, but he is out of his
mind. Besides, I offer the fullest compensation. Taking these two things
together, is there need to say more?" "I should say not," replied Deakin,
without a moment's hesitation. And back Deakin went to York, and acquainted
Bennet with what he had learned. For a time Bennet refused to believe what
Deakin had told him about the recovery of the money from Silwood, but when at
last he was convinced of it, he fell into a great surly silence, from which he
could not be drawn. When Deakin spoke of obtaining the services of an eminent
counsel for his defence, Bennet made no reply. Instead of giving way to anger,
as he usually did when he heard anything that displeased him, he sat gloomy and
sullen. After trying for ten minutes to get a word out of him, and failing,
Deakin left the prison. Next morning he received a hurried summons to the
Governor of the Prison's room, and there he heard that Bennet, in spite of the
fact that he was constantly watched night and day, had somehow managed to open a
vein in his arm and had bled to death in the night. "The warder, who was
guarding him at the time," said the Governor, "saw him lying on his bed fast
asleep, as he supposed; when it was daylight blood was noticed on the floor, and
then it was found that Bennet was dead." "But how did he get an instrument with
which to open a vein in his arm?" asked Deakin, aghast. "The surgeon says,"
answered the Governor, "that the vein was bitten open. The act was done with
great determination. You saw him yesterday, I believe; was there anything in
what you told him to account for the deed?" "I brought him news that greatly
disappointed him, but nothing to account for this. Poor devil!" But Deakin did
not know all. When Bennet's death became public, there were many who said he had
cheated the gallows, and few mourned for the lost life and the career gone
fatally wrong. Even Kitty Thornton, in her kind heart, could not sincerely say
she was sorry he was dead. Indeed, in the years that came after, she never
thought of Harry Bennet without growing quiet and pensive far beyond her wont,
as she reflected how, in one way and another, she had been saved from him. *
*       *       *       *

Gilbert Eversleigh and Kitty Thornton did not come together at once again--the
shadow of Bennet lay between them, but in the course of time they did, as was
inevitable. "When thou doest well unto thyself," said the satirist, "all men
will speak well of thee." And Gilbert Eversleigh, the rising barrister, backed
by the beauty and wealth of his wife, is spoken well of by all the world. The
other side of life's double shield is to be seen at Ivydene, where there may be
beheld, nursed and tended by a wife's unchanging love, and a daughter's
unalterable affection, a white-haired, bent figure, from whose loose lips there
comes the question, over and over again, "What o'clock is it? What o'clock is
it?" THE END

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.