CHAPTER I. THE ROTHERHITHE CRIME CHAPTER II. AT THE VICARAGE CHAPTER III. A
STORY OF THE PAST CHAPTER IV. AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR CHAPTER V. THE LETTER
CHAPTER VI. THE BOARDING-HOUSE CHAPTER VII. YULETIDE CHAPTER VIII. AN
EXPLANATION CHAPTER IX. ANOTHER TRAIL CHAPTER X. MR. SORLEY’S JEWELS CHAPTER XI.
JOTTY CHAPTER XII. AN INDIAN CLIENT CHAPTER XIII. AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR CHAPTER
XIV. FACE TO FACE CHAPTER XV. THE BLACK BAG CHAPTER XVI. MISS INDERWICK’S
EXCURSION CHAPTER XVII. THE SECRET CHAPTER XVIII. THE TREASURE HUNT CHAPTER XIX.
AT DAWN CHAPTER XX. WHO IS GUILTY? CHAPTER XXI. THE TRUTH CHAPTER XXII. CALM
AFTER STORM

THE PEACOCK OF JEWELS

CHAPTER I THE ROTHERHITHE CRIME

To find Barkers Inn was much the same to an ordinary person as looking for a
needle in the proverbial haystack. Dick Latimer, however, knew its exact
whereabouts, because he lived there, and on this foggy November night he was
making for it unerringly with the homing instinct of a bee. Leaving Fleet Street
behind him, somewhere about eleven-thirty, he turned into Chancery Lane, and
then struck off to the right down a by-road which narrowed to an alley, and
finally ended in a cul-de-sac. Here the young man hurried through the rusty iron
gates of a granite archway, and found himself in an oblong courtyard paved with
cobble-stones and surrounded by tumble-down houses with steep roofs of
discolored tiles. A few steps took him across this to a crooked little door,
which he entered to mount a crooked little staircase, and in one minute he was
on the first-floor landing, where a tiny gas-jet pricked the gloom with a bluish
spot of light. Hastily using his latchkey, he admitted himself through a door on
the left into a stuffy dark passage, technically called the entrance hall.
Eventually entering the sitting-room, he hurled himself into a creaking basket-
chair, and gave thanks to the gods of home that he had arrived. The friend with
whom Latimer shared these Barkers Inn chambers was seated by the fire clothed
comfortably in a suit of shabby old flannels, reading a letter and smoking a
briar-root, complacently at ease. He nodded when Dick stormed into the room, and
spoke with his pipe between his teeth. “Beastly night, isn’t it?” remarked Mr.
Fuller, who had been spending the evening at home very pleasantly. “You’d say
much more than that, Alan, my boy, if you’d been out in the fog,” retorted
Latimer. “Bur-r-r I’m glad to be indoors and to find you still out of bed at the
eleventh hour. I’ve had adventures: official adventures.”

“Connected with your employment as a journalist, I suppose,” said Fuller in a
lazy manner, and tucking the letter into his breast pocket, “but seriously
speaking, Dicky, are adventures to be found in this over-civilized city?”

“Romance stalks the London streets, more or less disguised as the commonplace,
my son. I can a tale unfold, but sha’n’t do so until I change my kit and have a
Scotch hot on the way to my mouth. Is the water boiling?” he demanded, directing
his gaze towards the old-fashioned grate where a small black kettle fumed and
hissed on the hob. “It’s been boiling for me,” said Fuller, indicating an empty
tumbler at his elbow, “but I’ve enough water for your needs.”

“I only hope you’ve left enough whisky, which is far more precious. Poke up the
fire and warm my slippers and make a fuss over me. I want to be fussed,” said
Dick plaintively, as he retreated to his bedroom, “for I’m a poor orphan boy
alone in this foggy world.”

“Ass!” observed Alan politely, and exposed the soles of his friend’s slippers to
the fire, “what about supper?”

“I’ve had that,” sang out Latimer, “at someone else’s cost.”

“You must have ruined him then with your appetite,” answered Fuller, laughing;
while he tilted back his chair to place his feet against the mantelpiece and his
hands behind his head. In this position he smoked quietly and admired the
photograph of an extremely pretty girl, which stood beside the clock, while the
small black kettle sang the song of home. The room was both long and broad with
a low whitewash ceiling, crossed with black oak beams, a somewhat slanting
floor—owing to the great age of the building—and three squat windows which
overlooked the dingy courtyard. These were draped with faded curtains of green
rep, drawn at this late hour to exclude the cold, and before one stood the
writing-table of Latimer, while the escritoire of Fuller bulked largely against
the other. Between the two, and blocking the approach to the middle window,
stretched a slippery horse-hair sofa, covered with a rugged Eastern shawl to
hide its many deficiencies. A shabby Kidderminster carpet concealed the worn
floor, but its sad hues were brightened by three or four gayly colored mats,
purchased at a cheap price. The round table, the unmatched chairs, the heavy
sideboard, the sofa aforesaid, and the chipped bookcase, were all the flotsam
and jetsam of auction rooms, belonging, more or less, to the comfortably ugly
style of the Albert period. On the plain green-papered walls were various
photographs of men and women, with sundry college groups; pictures of football
teams, cricketers and boating-crews; odd bits of china and miniature statues on
brackets; likewise foils, fencing masks, boxing gloves and such-like
paraphernalia of sport. It was a real man’s room, suggestive of exuberant
virility, and remarkably untidy. All the same there was order in its disorder,
as both Latimer and Fuller knew exactly where to lay their hands on any article
they wanted. The room was chaotic enough to drive a woman to distraction, but
comfortable and home-like for all that. The journalist returned in a well-worn
smoking suit, and proceeded to light his pipe. Fuller brewed him a glass of
grog, and handed it across as he sat down in the saddleback chair on the verge
of the hearthrug. The two men were fine specimens of humanity in their different
ways. Latimer was large and fair and heavily built, with big limbs, and a
suggestion of great strength. He had untidy yellow hair and a yellow mustache
which he tugged at hard when perplexed. His blue eyes were keen, but on the
whole he did not reveal much brain power in his face, which undoubtedly told the
truth, since he was more of an athlete than a scholar. Fuller, on the contrary,
was brilliantly clever, and as a solicitor was doing very well for himself in a
dingy Chancery Lane office. He was tall and slim, with a wiry frame, and a lean,
clean-shaven face, clearly cut and bronzed. Indeed with his steady dark eyes and
closely clipped black hair, and remarkably upright figure, he suggested the
soldier. This was probably due to heredity, since he came of a fighting line for
generations, although his father was a country vicar. Also, in spite of his
sedentary occupation, the young man lived as much as possible in the open, and
when not running down to his native village for weekends, haunted the parks on
every possible occasion, or walked four miles on Hampstead Heath and into the
country beyond. It was no wonder that he looked tanned, alert, bright-eyed, and
active, more like a squire of the Midlands than a votary of Themis. Since Fuller
senior was poor, the boy had to earn his bread and butter somehow, and after he
left Cambridge had elected to become a lawyer. Shortly after he blossomed out
into a full-blown solicitor, he chanced upon his old school friend, Dick
Latimer, who had taken to journalism, and the two had set up house together in
the ancient Inn. On the whole they were fairly comfortable, if not blessed with
an excess of the world’s goods. Finally, being young, both were healthy and
happy and hopeful and extremely enterprising. “Well now, Dicky, what have you
been doing?” asked Alan, when his friend, clothed and in his right mind, sipped
his grog and puffed smoke-clouds. “Attending an inquest at Rotherhithe.”

“Oh, that murder case!”

Latimer nodded and stared into the fire. “It’s a queer affair.”

“So far as I have read the newspaper reports, it seems to be a very commonplace
one.”

“I told you that Romance was often disguised as the Commonplace, Alan.”

“As how, in this instance?”

His friend did not reply directly. “What do you know of the matter?” he asked so
abruptly that Fuller looked up in surprise. “Why, what can I know save what I
have read in the papers?”

“Nothing, of course. I never suggested that you do know anything. But it’s no
use my going over old ground, so I wish to hear what you have learned from the
reports.”

“Very little, if you will be so precise,” said Alan after a pause. “In a fourth-
class Rotherhithe boarding-house frequented chiefly by seamen, a man called
Baldwin Grison was found dead in his bedroom and on his bed, a few days ago. The
Dagoes and Lascars and such British seamen as live under the same roof are not
accused of committing the crime, and as Grison was desperately poor and
degraded, there was no reason why he should be murdered, since he wasn’t worth
powder and shot. Old Mother Slaig, who keeps the house, declared that Grison
retired to his room at ten o’clock, and it was only next morning, when he did
not come down, that she learned of his death.”

Latimer nodded again. “All true and plainly stated. You certainly think in a
methodical manner, Alan. The man was found lying on his bed in the usual shabby
suit of clothes he wore. But his breast was bare, and he had been pierced to the
heart by some fine instrument which cannot be found. Death must have been
instantaneous according to the report of the doctor who was called in. But you
are wrong in thinking that the crime was motiveless. I believe that robbery was
the motive.”

“The papers didn’t report any belief of the police that such was the case.”

“The police don’t know everything—at least the inspector didn’t, although he
knows a great deal more now,” said Latimer, removing his pipe, “but the single
room occupied by the deceased was tumbled upside down, so it is evident that the
assassin was looking for the fruits of his crime. Whether he found what he
wanted is questionable.”

“What was it?” asked Fuller, interested in the mystery. “I’ll tell you that
later, although I really can’t say for certain if I am right. Let us proceed
gradually and thresh out the matter thoroughly.”

“Fire ahead. I am all attention.”

“The police,” continued Dick meditatively, “hunted out evidence as to the
identity and the status of the dead man, between the time of death and the
holding of the inquest. Inspector Moon—he’s the Rotherhithe chap in charge of
the case—advertised, or made inquiries, or got hold of the sister somehow. At
all events she turned up yesterday and appeared at the inquest this very day.”

“Who is the sister?”

“An elderly shrimp of a woman with light hair and a shrill voice, and a pair of
very hard blue eyes. She heard that her brother was murdered, or Moon hunted her
up in some way, and willingly came forward with her story.”

“What is her story?”

“I’m just coming to it. What an impatient chap you are, Alan. Miss Grison—Louisa
is her Christian name—keeps a shabby boarding-house in Bloomsbury, and is one of
those people who have seen better days. It seems that her brother Baldwin was
secretary to a person, whose name I shall tell you later, and was kicked out of
his billet twenty years ago, because he couldn’t run straight.”

“What had he done?”

“I can’t say. Miss Grison wouldn’t confess, and as the story wasn’t pertinent to
the murder she wasn’t pressed to confess. All she said was that her brother was
an opium-smoker and after losing his billet drifted to Rotherhithe, where he
could indulge in his vice. She tried to keep him respectable, and allowed him
ten shillings a week to live on. But he sank lower and lower, so she saw very
little of him. All she knew was that she sent the ten shilling postal order
regularly every Friday so that Baldwin might get it on Saturday. He never
visited her and he never wrote to her, but lived more or less like a hermit in
Mother Slaig’s boarding-house, and went out every night to smoke opium in some
den kept by a Chinaman called Chin-Chow. Miss Grison sobbed bitterly when she
gave her evidence and insisted that her brother owed his degradation to the
enmity of people.”

“What sort of people?”

“She didn’t particularize. He was weak rather than bad, she insisted, and when
he lost his situation, he lost heart also. At all events he devoted himself to
the black smoke, and lived in the Rotherhithe slum, until he was found dead by
the old hag who keeps the house.”

“Did Miss Grison’s evidence throw any light on the crime?”

“No. She declared that she did not know of anyone who would have killed the poor
devil.”

“Was there any evidence on the part of the doctor, or Mother Slaig, or those
seamen in the house to show who murdered the man?” asked Fuller. “Not the
slightest. The house was open morn, noon and night, and those who lived there
came and went at their will without being watched. It’s a rowdy locality and a
rowdy house, but Mother Slaig keeps fairly good order as she’s a formidable old
hag resembling Vautrin’s aunt in Balzac’s story.”

“Madame Nourrisau; I remember,” said Fuller, nodding. “Then I take it that no
one in the house heard any struggle, or cry for help?”

“No. Besides, as I have told you, death must have been instantaneous. No one, so
far as Mother Slaig or others in the house knew, visited Grison on that night,
or indeed on any other occasion—so they say—since the man was more or less of a
hermit. He went to bed at ten and at the same hour next morning he was found
dead with his room all upside down.”

“Was anything missed?”

“There was nothing to miss,” said Latimer quickly. “I saw the room, which only
contained a small bed, a small table and two chairs. The man had but one, suit
of ragged clothes, which he concealed under a fairly good overcoat his sister
declared she sent to him last Christmas. He was desperately poor and never
seemed to do anything but smoke opium.”

“What kind of a man was he to look at?”

“Something like the sister. Small and fair-haired, with blue eyes. Of course,
owing to the black smoke, he was a wreck morally and physically and mentally,
according to Mother Slaig, and the boys used to throw stones at him in the
streets. However, to make a long story short, nothing could be found to show how
the poor wretch had come by his death, so an open verdict was brought in—the
sole thing which could be done. To-morrow his sister, who seems to have loved
him in spite of his degradation, is taking away the corpse for burial.”

“Where is it to be buried?”

Latimer looked up slowly. “In the churchyard of Belstone, Sussex,” he said. Alan
sat up very straight and his manner expressed his unbounded astonishment.
“That’s my father’s parish,” he gasped. “Yes. And the churchyard is attached to
the building your father preaches in, my son,” said Latimer dryly, “odd
coincidence, isn’t it?”

“But—but—what has this murdered man to do with Belstone?” asked Fuller in a
bewildered manner. “That’s what I want to find out, Alan. Can’t you remember the
name?”

“Never heard of it. And yet the name Baldwin Grison is not a common one. I
should certainly have remembered it had it been mentioned to me. It is odd
certainly, as Belstone isn’t exactly the hub of the universe. Grison! Baldwin
Grison.” Fuller shook his head. “No, I can’t recall it. To be sure he may have
been in the village twenty years ago, since you say that he has lived since that
time in Rotherhithe. I was only seven years of age then, so I can remember
nothing. But my father may know. I’ll ask him when I go down this week-end.”

“There’s another thing I wish you to ask him.”

“What is that?”

“The romantic thing which lifts this case out of the commonplace. Only Inspector
Moon knows what I am about to tell you and he informed me with a recommendation
not to make it public.”

“Then why do you tell me?” said Fuller quickly. “Is it wise?”

“Quite wise,” responded his friend imperturbably, “because I asked Moon’s
permission to take you into our confidence.”

Fuller looked puzzled. “Why?”

Again Dicky replied indirectly. “It seems that Grison, unlucky beggar, had one
friend, a street-arab brat called Jotty.”

“Jotty what—or is Jotty a surname?”

“It’s the only name the boy has. He’s a clever little Cockney of fourteen, and
wise beyond his years, picking up a living as best he can. Grison used to give
him food occasionally, and sometimes money. Jotty ran errands for the man, and
was the sole person admitted to his room.”

“Well! well! well!” said Alan impatiently. “I’m coming to it, if you don’t hurry
me,” said Latimer coolly. “Jotty on one occasion entered the room, and found
Grison nursing between his hands—what do you think?”

“How the deuce should I know?”

“A peacock of jewels!”

Alan stared, and cast a swift glance at the photograph of the pretty girl on the
mantelpiece. “A peacock of jewels!” he repeated under his breath. “Or a jewelled
peacock, if you like. Grison put it away when he saw the boy: but that he had
such an article is quite certain, as Jotty hasn’t the imagination to describe
the thing. Now in spite of all search, Inspector Moon can’t find that peacock,
and you may be sure that after Jotty told his tale the inspector searched very
thoroughly. “Well?” Alan cast a second look at the photograph. “Well,” echoed
Dick, rather annoyed, “can’t you draw an inference. I think, and Moon thinks,
that the assassin murdered Grison in order to gain possession of the peacock,
which was of great value. If he wants to make money out of it he will have to
sell it, and in this way the inspector hopes to trap the beast. For that reason,
and so that the assassin may not be placed on his guard, Moon doesn’t want
anyone but you and me and himself to know the truth. You can’t guess why I have
told you this.”

“Yes.” Alan nodded and rubbed his knees, while a puzzled look came over his dark
clean-cut face. “I remember telling you about the fetish of the Inderwicks ages
ago.”

“Tell me again as soon as you can withdraw your gaze from that photo.”

Fuller colored, and laughed consciously. “When a man is in love, much may be
forgiven him. And you must admit, Dicky, that she’s the beauty of the world. Now
isn’t she?”

Latimer eyed the photograph in his turn. “She’s pretty,” he said judicially.
“Pretty,” echoed Fuller with great indignation, “she’s an angel, and the
loveliest girl ever created, besides being the most fascinating of women.”

“Oh, spare me your raptures,” broke in Dick impatiently. “Your taste in looks
isn’t mine, and I’ve met Miss Marie Inderwick, which you seem to forget. She is
very nice and very pretty and——”

“Oh, hang your lukewarm phraseology,” interrupted the other. “She’s the most
adorable girl in the universe.”

“I admit that, for the sake of getting on with the business in hand. Now what
about the peacock of jewels?”

“I told you all I know, which isn’t much,” said Alan, reluctantly changing the
subject. “Marie lives at the big house in Belstone which is called ‘The
Monastery’ because it was given by Henry VIII., to the Inderwick of——”

“Oh, confound Henry VIII. What about the peacock?”

“It’s the family fetish, and for one hundred years has been in the possession of
the Inderwicks. It was stolen some twenty years ago, and no one ever knew what
became of it. Now——”

“Now it turns up in the possession of Baldwin Grison, who has evidently been
murdered on its account. And yet you deny latter-day romance.”

“Well,” observed Alan rubbing his knees again, “I admit that your truth is
stranger than your professional journalistic fiction. But how did this man
become possessed of the ornament?”

Latimer shrugged his mighty shoulders. “How dense you are! Didn’t I tell you how
Louisa Grison declared that her brother had been secretary to a certain person,
whose name I said I would tell you later on. I shall tell you now, if you aren’t
clever enough to guess it.”

“Rats,” said Fuller inelegantly. “How can you expect me to guess it?”

“By using what common-sense Nature has given you. Hang it, man, here is an
excessively unique ornament belonging to the Inderwick family which has been
missing for over twenty years. Grison’s sister says that she intends to bury her
brother’s body in Belstone churchyard, and declared at the inquest that at one
time he was the secretary to a certain person. Now if you put two and two
together, you will find that the person is——”

“Mr. Sorley. Randolph Sorley,” cried Fuller suddenly enlightened. “In other
words, the uncle and guardian of Miss Marie Inderwick. Well now, you can see
that two and two do make four.”

“Humph!” Fuller nursed his chin and looked thoughtfully at the fire. “So this
murdered man was Mr. Sorley’s secretary. According to his sister he lost the
situation—perhaps, Dick, because he stole the peacock.”

“We can’t be positive of that, Alan. Grison, in his secretarial capacity,
certainly lived at The Monastery and assisted Mr. Sorley in preparing for the
press that dreary book about precious stones which seems to be his life work. He
had every chance to steal, but if Mr. Sorley had suspected him he assuredly
would have had him arrested.”

“Perhaps Grison bolted and could not be traced.”

“I think not. He was, so far as I can gather from what Miss Grison says,
dismissed in due form. He lived with her for a time at the Bloomsbury boarding-
house and later on drifted to Rotherhithe to indulge in his love for the black
smoke. No! no! no! my son. Mr. Sorley could never have believed that Grison was
in possession of the peacock of jewels.”

“Then why did he discharge him?”

“We must find out, and that won’t be easy after twenty years. Mr. Sorley is
growing old and may not remember clearly. But Grison on the evidence of Jotty
undoubtedly had this peacock, and since it cannot be found, he must have been
murdered by someone who desired the ornament. The disorder of that sordid room
shows that a strict search was made by the assassin, and it could be for nothing
save the golden peacock. Now, if the assassin did find it, Alan, and if you and
I and Moon and Jotty keep silent, the man will think that he is safe and will
sell his plunder.”

“Wait a bit, Dick. He may unset the jewels and sell them separately. Then it
will be difficult to trace him by the sale of the article.”

“True enough of Solomon. However we must take our chance of that. If he is
certain that the loss is not suspected he may sell the whole without splitting
it into parts. If he does, Moon—who has his eye on all pawnshops and jewellers
and on various receivers of stolen goods—can spot the beast and arrest him. But,
as a second string to our bow, it is just as well to know all about this family
fetish, since its history may throw some light on the mystery of its
disappearance. Now what you have to do, my son, is to go down to Belstone and
learn all you can about Grison when he was secretary to old Sorley. Ask Miss
Inderwick and her uncle about him.”

“Marie won’t know anything save by hearsay,” said Alan, shaking his head.
“Remember she’s only twenty years of age, and was an infant in arms when the
family fetish disappeared. Besides if I make inquiries I shall have to account
for my curiosity by revealing what you have told me to keep secret.”

“H’m! h’m! h’m!” murmured the other, frowning, “there is that objection
certainly. We must put out our sprat to catch the mackerel. However, it wants
three days till Saturday, so I shall see Moon and hear what he suggests about
the matter. The Inderwicks are poor, aren’t they, Alan?”

“There is only one Inderwick left,” answered the young solicitor, rising to
stretch his limbs, “and that is Marie. Of course she is desperately poor, as I
told you ages ago. She has The Monastery, the few acres of the park, and two
hundred a year to live on. Sorley is her mother’s brother, her uncle and
guardian, with another two hundred income. By pooling the cash, the two manage
to keep things going.”

“H’m! It’s a dull life for the girl. Do you like Mr. Sorley?”

“No,” replied Fuller serenely. “He’s a selfish old animal, who only regards
Marie as a necessary piece of furniture. She was at school for many years and
only returned home some twelve months ago. Now she acts as her uncle’s
housekeeper, and leads an infernally dull life. Mr. Sorley never seems to think
that Marie is young and requires enjoyment. He’s a beast.”

“Ho,” chuckled Dick shrewdly, “you seem to dislike him excessively. I can easily
see that he doesn’t favour your suit.”

“No, hang him, he doesn’t. If Marie married me, the old man would be left with
his two hundred a year to get on as best he could, and you may be jolly well
sure, Dicky, that he doesn’t want to leave the big house.”

“Natural enough,” yawned Latimer. “Well, my son, you help Moon to hunt down
Grison’s assassin and recover the fetish of the Inderwicks and perhaps the old
man, out of gratitude, may accept you as a nephew-in-law.”

“It’s worth trying for at all events,” said Alan thoughtfully. “Marie’s an
angel, and I’m bound to marry her sooner or later. I’ll go down on Saturday and
start operations.”

CHAPTER II AT THE VICARAGE

Alan Fuller thoughtfully tucked the rug round his knees in the third-class
compartment of the train which was taking him to Belstone. There was no station
at the village, but the Brighton express stopped at Lewes, and thence he could
walk or drive to his destination. The young man was in tip-top spirits, as the
suggestion of Latimer that he should join in the search for Grison’s assassin,
and secure the return of the peacock fetish to Marie Inderwick, ‘rendered him
hopeful that success in this direction would lead to his marriage with the girl.
Of course that could not take place for some time since he was not yet making a
sufficient income to justify his becoming the husband of the most adorable girl
in the universe. Still, if Mr. Sorley would withdraw his absurd opposition—and
he probably would do so, were the peacock recovered—Alan concluded that he might
become officially engaged to Marie, and so she would not be snapped up by other
suitors. Legally speaking he would have a lien on her. Not that this was really
needed, since Marie loved him as much as he loved her, but the position would be
more satisfactory to both if matters were arranged on this basis, and in a
practical way. After all, Marie was young and impressionable, and if Mr. Sorley
found a rich man anxious to become the husband of his lovely niece he might, and
probably would, worry her into accepting the suitor. Marie would fight—Alan was
quite positive on this point—but she might be worn out by her uncle’s
persistence, and Fuller knew well enough that the old man was as obstinate as a
mule, when once he set his mind on achieving a certain end. On the whole then,
Alan was pleased that chance had thrown in his way an opportunity of doing Mr.
Sorley a service, as a benefit conferred would undoubtedly soften him. Certainly
the peacock belonged to Marie, but—looking upon it, as she would, as a mere
ornament—she probably would not mind its remaining in her uncle’s possession
when it was found. And Sorley was a fanatic about jewels: their glitter and
rainbow hues seemed to send him crazy with delight. To recover the radiant
splendor of the peacock, he would assuredly concede much and Alan felt quite
sure that consent to his marriage with the girl would not be withheld. But
everything depended upon the tracing of the miserable Grison’s assassin and that
was not an easy task. Before leaving London, Fuller had visited Inspector Moon
at his Rotherhithe office, along with Latimer, and the policeman had been
greatly interested in the fact that the solicitor knew the original possessors
of the article for which Grison had apparently been murdered. He had also been
astonished, and with good reason, at the coincidence that Latimer, to whom he
had spoken about Jotty’s evidence, should have a friend who was—so to
speak—mixed up in the matter of the peacock. Since Fate appeared to point out
Fuller as an active agent in bringing this unknown murderer to justice, through
the instrumentality of the stolen ornament, Moon had readily given the young man
permission to speak of the matter to Mr. Sorley and to Marie. Meanwhile the
inspector still continued to hunt for the trail, but without success. The
assassin had come and gone in the crowd which inhabited Mother Slaig’s boarding-
house entirely unnoticed, and now that Grison was buried in the Belstone
churchyard as arranged by his sister, it appeared as if the Rotherhithe murder
would have to be relegated to the list of undiscovered crimes. Further
revelations depended either on the chance that the criminal would pawn or sell
what he had risked his neck to obtain, or on some evidence procured from Marie
and Sorley, relative to the peacock. Where had it originally come from? who had
manufactured it? why did the Inderwick family regard it as a fetish? and
finally, why had Grison stolen it? These were the questions which Fuller came
down to Belstone to ask. Meanwhile the inspector still continued to hunt for the
trail, but without success. The assassin had come and gone in the crowd which
inhabited Mother Slaig’s boarding-house entirely unnoticed, and now that Grison
was buried in the Belstone churchyard as arranged by his sister, it appeared as
if the Rotherhithe murder would have to be relegated to the list of undiscovered
crimes. Further revelations depended either on the chance that the criminal
would pawn or sell what he had risked his neck to obtain, or on some evidence
procured from Marie and Sorley, relative to the peacock. Where had it originally
come from? who had manufactured it? why did the Inderwick family regard it as a
fetish? and finally, why had Grison stolen it? These were the questions which
Fuller came down to Belstone to ask. It was therefore no wonder that, since
Alan’s future happiness depended upon his success in solving so deep a mystery,
he should be thoughtful on the journey, to Belstone. Dick and he had talked a
great deal about the matter but, for want of further evidence could arrive at no
conclusion. Until Mr. Sorley explained about the peacock, and stated what he
knew concerning Grison, there was nothing more to be done. Alan thought that the
uncle would probably know more than the niece, since she had been an infant in
arms when the fetish had been stolen. All the same he resolved to question Marie
first, on the chance that she might know something, and upon what she stated
would depend his future plans. The young man did not like Mr. Sorley, not only
because that gentleman thwarted his marriage with Marie, but also for the very
simple reason that he mistrusted Sorley’s character. His eyes were too shifty;
his manners were too suave; and although he always wished to know the private
affairs of everyone else, he never by any chance confessed anything that had to
do with himself. It was necessary on these grounds, as Fuller considered, to
deal with Marie’s uncle in a wary manner. In due course the train stopped at
Lewes, and Alan got out with the intention of walking the five miles to
Belstone. He had only a gladstone bag containing a few necessary articles for a
Saturday-to-Monday’s stay in the country, since he invariably kept a supply of
clothes at his home. With a nod to the station-master, to whom he was well-
known, Fuller left the station, and ignoring the application of several cabmen,
struck at an angle to reach the high road. He was soon on the hard metal and
walked along swiftly and easily swinging his bag, glad of the exercise to grow
warm again, as the day was cold and he was chilled from sitting in the train. As
it was now the end of November there was a slight grey fog spreading its veil
over the surrounding country, and the sun was conspicuous by its absence. But
that Alan thought of Marie’s bright face, which he would be certain to see
smiling before him on this day or the next, he would have been depressed by the
want of sunshine. But what lover who hopes to look into the eyes of the girl he
adores within a specified number of hours can feel down-hearted, however gloomy
the skies or moist the earth? Not Alan Fuller, who moved on to his much-desired
goal with love songs humming in his active brain. And the burden of these was
“Marie Marie Marie!” with the delicious name joined to the most eulogistic
adjectives in the English tongue. It was when he was almost within sight of
Belstone village that the motor bicycle came along. Alan heard the buzz of the
machine round the corner and stood aside to let it pass, indifferent to its
coming and going. But when he saw a slim old man with an ascetic, clean-shaven
face, smartly dressed in a grey suit with brown gaiters, seated thereon, he both
started and called out in his surprise. “Mr. Sorley. This is unexpected. You on
a bicycle?”

The rider shut off the motive power and brought his machine to a standstill a
few yards past the young man. “You are astonished,” he said, coming back
wheeling the bicycle. “Well, Alan, I don’t wonder at it. At the age of sixty, it
is not many people who would risk their brittle bones in this way.”

“No, indeed,” replied Fuller, staring at Mr. Sorley’s fresh complexion and
closely-cropped white hair surmounted by a very juvenile tweed cap. “And I
thought you were such an indoor man.”

“Pooh! pooh! pooh!” said Sorley good-humoredly. “You know how particular I am
about exercise, Alan. I walk every day a certain distance in order to keep
myself in health. For years I have slipped out to range the park; but with
increasing age should come increasing activity, so, I have bought this,” he
shook the machine, “and already—in three weeks that is—I have learned to ride it
without fear. I can explore the country now, and intend to do so, my dear lad.
The park is too small for me, and I must take all the exercise possible if I
wish to keep my looks and vitality. Increasing age: increasing activity,” said
Mr. Sorley again, “there you are.”

“Increasing age generally means sitting by the fire and going to bed early,
sir,” replied Alan dryly, “don’t overdo it.”

“My boy, there is nothing so objectionable as advice.”

“I beg your pardon. I only thought——”

“Then don’t think on my behalf at all events,” snapped Mr. Sorley, who appeared
rather ruffled by Fuller’s reflection on his age. “When you come to my years,
Alan, I doubt if you will look so healthy as I do.”

The young man mentally admitted that it was possible he might not wear so well.
Sorley was a marvel of preservation, and although he had turned sixty certainly
did not look more than forty-five at the most, save for his white hair. His face
was almost without wrinkles; his form, spare and lean, was unbowed, and the up-
to-date clothes he always affected gave him quite a youthful air at a distance.
In fact he was a very handsome man in an elderly way, and but for his shifty
eyes and slack mouth—these marred his appearance considerably—he would have
impressed people even more than he already did. But with all his juvenile aspect
and ingratiating ways, there was something untrustworthy about the man. At least
Alan thought so, and had always thought so, but perhaps he might have been more
observant than the usual run of humanity, for Marie’s uncle was extremely
popular, although his usual life was somewhat after the style of a hermit. But
this Mr. Sorley ascribed less to inclination than to the want of money, since he
humorously said that he and Marie, unable to make both ends meet, had to make
one end vegetables. “You are wonderful, Mr. Sorley,” said Alan, hastening to
soothe the old man’s easily hurt vanity. “I never saw you look better. How do
you manage to knock all these years off your age?”

“Abstention from over-drinking and overeating,” said Mr. Sorley briskly, giving
his recipe for everlasting youth. “An hour’s sleep in the afternoon and plenty
of it at night. Cold tubs, dumbbell exercises in the altogether as Trilby says
with the window open, judicious walks and an optimistic way of looking at
things. There you are,” he ended with his favourite catch-phrase as usual. “Now
you must add trips on a motor bicycle,” laughed Alan, smiling. “By the way, how
is Marie?”

“Blooming as a rose, fresh as a daisy, cheerful as a lark,” prattled Mr. Sorley,
with a swift and not altogether approving glance at the speaker’s face. “She’ll
be getting married soon. I can’t expect to keep such beauty and grace hidden
from the world. And she must make a good match, my lad”—this was for Alan’s
particular benefit as the young man knew very well——“a title and money, good
looks and a landed estate, with brains added. That is the suitor I have chosen
for Marie.”

“You are looking for a bird of paradise,” said Fuller, coloring at the hint
conveyed, “does such perfection exist in a mere human being?”

“I hope so; I hope so,” said Sorley, still cheery and still shifty in his
glance, “we must look for the rarity, my lad. But I’m in no hurry to lose Marie.
She is a great comfort to her old uncle. I was annoyed the other day, greatly
annoyed, and she talked me into quite a good humor.”

“What annoyed you, sir?” asked Fuller, not because he cared, but merely from a
desire to chat about Miss Inderwick. “A funeral which took place in the
village.”

“Oh, Baldwin Grison’s funeral?”

Sorley brought his shifty green eyes to the young man’s face. “What do you know
about Baldwin Grison?” he asked sharply, and, as it seemed to Alan’s suspicious
nature, rather uneasily. “All that the newspapers could tell me, Mr. Sorley. He
was murdered at Rotherhithe by some unknown person, and his sister brought the
body down here for burial in the village churchyard.”

“That last wasn’t in the newspapers,” retorted the other quickly and looking
everywhere but at Alan’s face. “No, it wasn’t. But my friend Latimer—you may
remember meeting him at the vicarage, Mr. Sorley—was at the inquest and
afterwards spoke to Miss Grison, who told him of her intention.”

“Did she tell him also that her brother was my secretary twenty years ago,
Alan?” demanded Sorley, his face growing red and his eyes glittering. “Did she
say how he was turned out of the house as a drunken swine?”

“Miss Grison hinted something of those things at the inquest, but did not go
into details, and, as they were unnecessary, she was not pressed. But she told
Latimer that her brother had been discharged by you for some reason.”

“He was a hard drinker, and also smoked opium,” said Sorley angrily. “I did what
I could for him, but had to discharge him in the long run. That woman had no
right to bring the body here and bury it under my nose, as it might be. Decency
should have prevented her bringing back the man to a place whence he was kicked
out twenty years ago.”

“She didn’t bring back the man, but his remains, sir.”

“It would have been better had she thrown those into a London ditch,” replied
Sorley tartly. “Grison was a bad servant to me and a bad brother to her and a
profligate animal. I don’t wonder he was murdered.”

“Can you suggest any motive for the commission of the crime?” asked Fuller,
looking straightly at the elder man. “Grison was a drunkard, an opium-smoker, a
liar and a loafer. A man like that must have made many enemies, and in the low
slum he lived in he certainly risked what has, in the end, happened. The wonder
is that he was not murdered before, Alan.”

“Well, he had one good point,” said Fuller meaningly and to force confidence if
possible on the part of Sorley. “He wasn’t a thief.”

“Can you prove that he was not?”

“Can you prove that he was?” demanded Alan in his turn. “At all events you
omitted that particular crime from your category.”

“The poor devil’s dead and I don’t wish to say more about him than I have
already stated,” said Sorley moodily, and beginning to start his machine, “but I
trust that his silly sister will not come and worry me.”

“Why should she?” asked Fuller, noticing that the man before him evaded the
question of Grison being a thief. “There’s no reason in the world why she
should, except that she was infatuated with her brother and believed that I had
discharged him unjustly. I shouldn’t be surprised if she came to tell me that
again, by word of mouth as she has told me dozens of times by letter. She
ascribed Grison’s downfall to me, and was always asking me to assist him when he
was at Rotherhithe during the last twenty years. Of course I didn’t, both
because I am poor as you know, Alan, and for the simple reason that Grison was
not worth helping. I was his best friend, and far from bringing about his
downfall I did my best to keep him straight. But all in vain: all in vain. He
became quite a scandal in the place and Mrs. Inderwick, my sister, insisted that
I should get rid of him. I did so, and he went to the dogs entirely. So there
you are, Alan, my boy, and I can’t stay here all day talking about a matter
which annoys me intensely.”

By this time the machine was alive with energy and Mr. Sorley swung himself into
the saddle as he ended his voluble speech. With a nod he set the starting gear
in motion, and almost instantaneously was a dot on the horizon travelling
towards Lewes at the speed of a swallow. Alan looked after him thoughtfully, and
tried to arrive at some conclusion regarding his apparently frank speech. By the
time he reached the vicarage he came to one resolution at least, and that was to
say nothing for the present to Mr. Sorley about the peacock. The young man could
scarcely decide himself what made him refrain from speaking, save that the old
gentleman’s manner and vague speech communicated to him a sort of uneasy
feeling, which hinted that reticence was wise for the time being. It might have
been some sixth sense which induced the decision, for Fuller certainly could not
argue out the matter logically. However, he determined to obey the intuition,
and to avoid making a confidant of the uncle, while speaking freely of his
errand to the niece. There was no feeling in his mind against discussing with
Marie the theft of the peacock as the possible motive for the murder of the man
her relative seemed to detest so thoroughly. As usual the young man received the
warmest of welcomes from his parents, who adored their only son and thought him
the most wonderful person in the world. The vicar assuredly did not worship the
marvellous boy so devotedly as did Mrs. Fuller; nevertheless he took a great
pride in Alan’s handsome looks and clever brains and general good conduct. He
was a bright-eyed, rosy-faced little man, who scarcely came up to his tall son’s
shoulder, with a kindly nature, which was always being imposed upon. His wife, a
sweet-faced old lady, tall, grey-haired, and singularly graceful, was more
practical in many ways than her husband. She checked the vicar’s too generous
way of dealing with those who took advantage of his lavish kindness, and was the
true ruling power in the house. Her weak point was Alan, and she often sighed to
think that he would never find a woman worthy to be his wife. A dozen of the
best women in the world rolled into one perfect creature would never have come
up to the standard she had set up in her own mind which the future Mrs. Alan
Fuller was to reach. Alan always enjoyed his home visits, not only because he
loved his parents with a tenderness and respect rare in these modern days of
revolt against domestic authority, but also on account of the quiet and well-
ordered life which made the vicarage so uncommonly pleasant. Mrs. Fuller was a
famous housewife, and managed her establishment with such rare tact that she
kept her servants for years. Her husband’s income was not a large one, but no
one would have guessed this, seeing the perfectly appointed dinner-table and the
dainty meal prepared. The vicar’s wife had brought to her husband by way of
dowry a quantity of valuable old furniture, so that every room looked graciously
beautiful. And as the house was quaint and old, and kept in perfect repair and
order, those not in the secret of the income believed that the Fullers had ample
means. But everything grateful to the eye and the touch and the palate was due
to the “vicaress,” as her husband jocularly called her. The worst-tempered
person in the world would have succumbed to the soothing influences which
permeated the place. “Home, home, sweet, sweet home,” hummed Alan, when the trio
sat in the fragrant old drawing-room after an admirable dinner. “Mother darling,
you have no idea how restful this is, after the noise and bustle of London.”

Mrs. Fuller smiled from her favorite chair, and went on with her tatting, busy
as a bee, for she was rarely idle. In her silver-grey dress with a lace cap of
dainty gossamer resting on her white hair, worn cast back after the style of
Marie Antoinette, and her old-fashioned set of amethyst ornaments, she looked
singularly charming. In the subdued light which came through the pink lampshades
she looked like some gentle ghost of early Victorian days, soothingly womanly
and motherly. She had grown old gracefully, and as the diamonds flashed from her
rings while she tatted diligently Alan thought what a delightful gentlewoman she
looked, placid, dignified and gracious. It was the vicar who answered his son’s
question, although Alan had scarcely put his remark as such. “Ah, my boy, you’d
soon grow weary of this drowsy place, and would long for the crowded hour of
glorious life. It is the contrast that makes you appreciate our Eden.”

Mrs. Fuller nodded her approval. “White always shows up best against black.”

“Well, you have had some London black down here lately, mother.” And when she
looked at him inquiringly, Alan continued, “I mean the funeral.”

The vicar’s face grew sad. “Yes! yes! That was indeed an unpleasant reminder of
what lies beyond our quiet hills. Poor Grison and poor Louisa tool I do not know
which I am most sorry for.”

“For Louisa?” said Mrs. Fuller, raising her quiet eyes. “You need not be sorry
for her, John. She did her duty and more than her duty by that poor creature who
has gone to his account, so she has nothing to reproach herself with. I am glad
she is staying for a few days, as I wish to have a talk with her.”

“Is Miss Grison staying here then?” asked Alan, wondering if it would be worth
while to look her up. “At Mrs. Millington’s, the dressmaker, my dear. She and
Louisa were close friends twenty years and more ago.”

“That was when Grison was secretary to Mr. Sorley.”

“Yes,” chimed in the vicar. “But who told you about that, my boy?”

“Miss Grison spoke about it at the inquest and also to Dick and Inspector Moon,
father. Then I met Mr. Sorley on my way here and he told me that he had employed
the man, but had to get rid of him for drink, and——”

“I don’t think that is true,” interrupted Mrs. Fuller with some indignation in
her usually gentle voice. “Poor Baldwin—we called him so when he was a young
man—did not drink to excess, although he certainly took more than was good for
him at times.”

“Then why was he discharged?”

“I cannot say, Alan, nor can anyone else. Louisa knows, but she would never tell
me. But Mr. Sorley was much to blame in throwing Baldwin on the world without a
character, since he was too weak to stand by himself. Louisa did what she could,
but he fell from bad to worse until—alas! alas! Tell me, Alan, has anything been
discovered as to who killed him?”

“Not yet, mother. You have read the papers.”

“Oh yes. Louisa sent all the reports down to your father and to me, knowing that
we took a deep interest in Baldwin. Don’t you remember him, Alan? You were a
little boy of six or seven then.”

Alan shook his head. “I have a faint recollection only, mother. A little man,
wasn’t he, with fair hair and blue eyes? But there, I may have got that
impression from Dick’s description. He saw the corpse.”

“Don’t talk about such things, Alan,” said the vicar hastily. “It worries your
mother: she is very impressionable. Let us be thankful that the poor creature
has been brought back to lie in our quiet churchyard. As to the person who
murdered him, he will suffer for his sin in God’s good time.”

“I doubt if the truth will ever be discovered,” said Alan with a shrug. “By the
way, father, do you remember that peacock of jewels which was the fetish or luck
of the Inderwicks?”

Not knowing what connection there was between the murder of Grison and the
ornament in question, the vicar thought that the apparently irrelevant inquiry
was made by his son in obedience to his request that the crime should not be
discussed in the presence of Mrs. Fuller. “Everyone in the village, if not in
the county, knows about the peacock,” he said with an approving smile, “but as
to its bringing luck, I do not believe in such superstitions, my boy.”

“Perhaps not,” said his wife quietly, “but you must confess, John, that since
what the Inderwicks call their luck has been missing nothing has gone well with
them—that is with Marie, who alone represents the family.”

“Nonsense, my dear. Marie is young, healthy, pretty, and happy enough in her own
way, as Sorley is kindness itself to her. There’s no bad luck haunting the girl
so far as I can see.”

“No, of course not. But I allude rather to her poverty. The Inderwicks used to
be rich, and Mrs. Inderwick was left comparatively well off. Then she lost her
money when Marie was born, and afterwards died.”

“Inderwick—Marie’s father, that is—should not have made Sorley trustee, for he
is, and always was a bad business man. He acted honestly enough, I daresay, but
even with his sister’s consent he should never have speculated as he did. No
wonder the money was lost.”

“What were the speculations?” asked Alan. “Land in Australia—in Melbourne
chiefly, I believe. There was a big land boom there, over twenty years ago. Then
everything failed and bank after bank went smash. Before Sorley could get a
letter or even a telegram out, everything was gone. However, Marie has The
Monastery and the park and sufficient to keep her in food and dress, so she
can’t grumble.”

“Marie never does grumble,” said Mrs. Fuller decidedly, “she is the brightest
person I know. But it’s a dull life for a young girl at The Monastery. She ought
to have a season in London and be presented at Court and have an opportunity,”
here she stole a shy glance at Alan’s expressive face, “of making a good match.
With Marie’s blood and looks she should secure a title.”

“Well, perhaps she will, when the peacock returns to bring back the luck,” said
Alan, refusing to be drawn into an argument with his mother over Marie. “It will
never be found,” said the vicar positively. “How was it lost, father?”

“I can’t tell you. But it has been missing twenty years and is not likely to
reappear. Marie can do very well without it. Such superstition is ridiculous.
And now we must have prayers,” ended Mr. Fuller inconsequently. His wife looked
up amused, since she knew that he acted thus because he had no patience with her
belief in the peacock as a fetish. And while prayers were being said Alan
wondered if the peacock would ever reappear, in spite of his father’s doubts, to
influence Marie’s destiny. CHAPTER III A STORY OF THE PAST

The ancient village of Belstone, hidden in a fold of low-lying, undulating
hills, is inhabited chiefly by agricultural laborers. One irregular street, four
or five narrow lanes, and a few behind-the-time shops, together with many small
cottages, constitute this sequestered hamlet. There are a great number of farms
and several country seats in the district, but those who own them usually buy
the necessaries of life at Lewes, so Belstone cannot depend upon trade for its
support. The villagers, however, do not mind this neglect, as they are sleepy-
headed and indifferent to all, so long as they earn sufficient for bed and
board. The sole houses of any note are the vicarage at one end of the village,
and the great mansion of the Inderwicks at the other. Formerly the owners of The
Monastery—as the place is called—were Lords of the Manor, but, as their property
has dwindled to a few acres, the title has passed to a modern and more
prosperous family. The Inderwicks, formerly so rich and powerful, are now of
small account amongst the gentry of the county. The Rev. John Fuller always
maintained that the prehistoric name of the village was Baalstone, and that it
was so termed after an altar or stone to Baal or Bel, a deity whom the
Ph[oe]nicians had introduced into Britain. But it is more than questionable
whether these sea-rovers ever traded so far as Sussex, and Mr. Fuller’s
assumption can be taken for what it is worth, although he held stoutly to his
opinion. But be this as it may undoubtedly there was a Druidical temple where
the big house now stands, later a shrine to Diana, and afterwards an altar to
Woden, until early Christian missionaries built on the same spot a primitive
flint and mortar church. Finally came a Benedictine monastery, which lasted
until the reign of that arch-iconoclast, Henry VIII. From the expelled monks it
had passed into the possession of Nicholas Inderwick, one of Cromwell’s favorite
gentlemen, and had been owned by his descendants ever since. The spot had
therefore always been a holy one, until secularised in the days of the great
Tudor monarch, and perhaps for this reason had never brought good fortune to the
Inderwicks, who had built up what prosperity they had attained to on the ruin of
sacred things and the misfortunes of sacred people. Certainly evil luck had
followed them for generations: they had lost land, money, position and
authority, and their family tree had been cut down root and branch, until only
one feeble twig sprouted from the mouldering trunk. Marie Inderwick was the last
descendant of the ancient line, and dwelt in the house of her ancestors on a
penurious income which barely sufficed to keep her in food and fire and clothes.
And when she married, or died, it was to be expected that the family name would
vanish from the land. All these things Alan knew very well, as all his life they
had been talked about in the village and at the vicarage. There was also a
prophecy of an expelled monk dating over three hundred years ago, which promised
renewed prosperity to the Inderwicks when their fortunes were lowest. The young
man could not think how much lower the fortunes could sink, and wondered as he
strolled towards the monastery, if now was the appointed time for the fulfilment
of the ancient saying:—

“When most is lost and most are dead, The spoilers then shall raise their head.
Jewels and gold from over-seas, Will bring them peace and joy and ease.”

Of course Alan in his reading of the prophecy modernized the antique diction.
There was much more of it, but only Marie knew the whole of Fate’s decree, and
was accustomed to repeat it hopefully when she felt down-hearted. She always
insisted that sooner or later the curse pronounced on the Inderwicks by the monk
would be removed. As there was no money to keep things in order, the place was
woefully neglected. The great iron gates which swung from pillars surmounted by
the Inderwick escutcheon in the grip of tall dragons had not been opened for
many years, and access to the park was gained through a small side entrance set
in the mouldering brick wall which encircled the domain. The park itself was so
overgrown and wild and tangled and savage that it might have been that very wood
which shut in the enchanted palace of the Sleeping Beauty. Alan dreamed that it
might be so, and that he might be the fairy prince destined to awaken Marie to a
new life. And indeed since she loved him, and he adored her, he had succeeded so
far; but how her fortunes were to be mended at the present juncture he could not
see. Yet had he been gifted with psychic powers he would have known more or less
positively that he was on the eve of entering a new lane down which he would
lead the girl towards happiness and prosperity. A short brisk walk up the
neglected avenue brought Fuller into the wide open space wherein was placed the
great mansion. Some portions of the original monastery remained, but during
hundreds of years it had been so altered that the monks would have had some
difficulty in recognizing their former habitation. Parts of the building had
been pulled down and other parts built up, that had been altered and this had
been permitted to remain in its original state, so that the old house presented
an incongruous appearance which could be ascribed to no particular epoch of
architecture. With its walls of grey flint, brown stone, red brick, and here and
there blocks of white marble somewhat soiled by wind and rain and sunshine, it
looked singularly picturesque. And the whole was overgrown with ivy, dank and
green and wonderfully luxuriant, since it was never trimmed and never cut. The
big building looked as though it were bound to the soil by the tough tendrils
and what with the rank coarse grasses and the trees which grew right up to the
walls, it might have been part and parcel of the earth itself, so swathed was it
in greenery. There was something noble and austere about the dwelling befitting
perhaps the Benedictines who had dwelt in it at one time, but it looked
altogether too sombre and unwholesome to shelter the fair head of Marie
Inderwick, who was all smiles and sunshine. And as Alan advanced towards the
huge porch which was supported on twisted pillars, she unexpectedly made her
appearance like a gleam of light shooting across a thunderous sky. It was Alan
the lover, and not Fuller the lawyer, who made this poetic comparison. “Darling!
darling!” cried Marie, running down the broken steps with outstretched hands. “I
knew you would come. But how late you are! I saw you in the church this morning,
and have been expecting you all the afternoon. It is now three o’clock and only
at this moment do you put in an appearance. No, I won’t be kissed. Uncle may be
at the window and would make trouble, as he always does. Besides you don’t
deserve a kiss, when you neglect me so.”

“I shall take one for all that,” said Alan, suiting the action to the word, “and
in spite of possible dragon eyes at the window.”

“But your neglect,” pouted Marie, playing with his necktie, arranging it and
rearranging it after the manner of women whose fingers must always be busy.
“Dearest, I stayed for the midday communion, and when I came out you had gone
home with your uncle.”

“He hurried me away, Alan. He’s always very particular to keep an eye on me when
you come down.”

“Undoubtedly. He wants you to marry a title.”

Marie shrugged her shoulders in a French fashion which she had acquired from a
Parisian school friend at the Brighton seminary. “As if anyone would marry a
pauper like me.’

“I think any man who has an eye for the beautiful would only be too glad to
marry such a lovely pauper.”

“That’s nice. Say it again and slowly.”

“A lovely pauper, an adorable pauper, an angelic———”

“Stop! stop! You flatter too much. You don’t mean what you say.”

“Not a word,” confessed Alan candidly. Marie grew red and her eyes flashed.
“Then how dare you say such things!”

“You expect me to and you shouldn’t fish.”

“In shallow water? Certainly not! Alan Eric Reginald Fuller,” she gave him his
complete name and pinched his arm, “you are a bear.”

“Bears hug,” said the lover, taking her in his arms. “Oh, my gracious, you will
get me into trouble,” cried Marie, extricating herself with some difficulty and
flying across the lawn, followed hot-footed by Alan. “Come and hide out of sight
of those horrid windows. Uncle Ran is sure to see us otherwise, and will order
me indoors. Come! come,” she sang like a siren and fled after the fashion of
Atalanta into the woods. The trees were bare of leaves, but here and there a fir
stood up green and sombre, while the undergrowth of brambles and grass and ferns
and various weeds had not yet lost their autumnal tints so that the park did not
as yet look entirely wintry. The day was warm too for late November, and pale
sunshine irradiated the grey depths of the sky, so that the birds had plucked up
heart to sing, perhaps in the hope of averting coming snows. At top-speed Marie
flew down a side path which twisted and straightened at intervals for a
considerable distance until it ended In a kind of sunken dell in the centre of
which was a circle of cemented stones rising slightly above the fading herbage.
Over this was a wooden canopy of ancient appearance with a tiled red roof
weather-worn and mellow, and beneath, a deep hole which seemed to penetrate into
the bowels of the earth. This was St. Peter’s Dell and St. Peter’s Well since
the monastery had been dedicated to the chief of the Apostles. Marie loved the
spot, and haunted it in summer for the sake of its coolness. Now she came
because she knew that her philanderings with the forbidden lover would not be
seen by anyone. “And Uncle Ran is asleep,” she explained as she perched herself
on the ragged rim of stones. “He always sleeps for an hour in the afternoon,
because he says that it keeps him alive.”

“I wish it didn’t,” growled Alan, placing himself beside the girl, and putting
an arm round her, probably to prevent her from falling into the depths. “I don’t
like your Uncle Ran, dear.”

“Since he won’t let you make love to me, I can quite understand that,” said
Marie rather pertly; “but he’s all the relative I have so I must make the best
of him, Alan. But you haven’t told me how I am looking.”

“Why, I’ve used at least a dozen adjectives. But I shall examine you carefully,
darling, and give you my honest opinion.”

Taking her chin in his hand, he turned her face upward, and looked into the
happy blue eyes. Marie was indeed a very pretty girl, although not perhaps so
superlatively lovely as Alan imagined. Her face would never have launched a
thousand ships, or set fire to Troy Town. But her complexion was transparent and
as delicately tinted as a rose, with the dewy look, so to speak, of that flower
at dawn. Her hair was golden and waved over her white forehead in rebellious
little curls. Then she had sapphire eyes and a straight little Greek nose, and
two fresh red lips, which seemed to invite the kiss Alan now bestowed. As her
figure was wrapped up in a heavy fur cloak of great antiquity, it could not be
seen at the moment, but Alan, who was well acquainted with its suave contours,
knew that it was the most perfect figure in the three kingdoms, as her hands and
feet were the smallest and most well-shaped. But what really drew his heart to
Marie was her sweet expression and candid looks. Some women—few, of course—might
have possessed Marie’s items of beauty in the shape of form and coloring, but no
one, and Alan said this aloud with great decision, ever owned such heavenly
smiles or could give such tender glances. Marie sighed and approved of the
praise and nestled her head against his rough frieze overcoat. “You always tell
the truth, darling,” she said, after he had assured her that she was something
higher than an angel. “Always!” Alan kissed her again for the tenth time. “And
now I want you to tell me the truth, Marie.”

She looked up somewhat puzzled. “About what?”

“About the peacock of jewels, which———”

The girl drew away from his encircling arm and slipped to the ground. “Why do
you want to speak about that?” she asked, standing before him and looking as
charming as the Queen of Sheba when she visited Solomon; “it was lost before I
was born, and no one ever speaks of it. Except Uncle Ran,” she added with an
afterthought, “he loves jewels, as you know, and always regrets the loss,
although the peacock belongs to me and not to him.”

“Marie,” said Alan again and gravely, “come and sit down, as I have something
important to tell you which you must not repeat to your uncle until I give you
leave.”

“I shall sit here,” said Miss Inderwick, sinking on to the trunk of a fallen
tree which was a few feet away, “and I wish you wouldn’t look so solemn or talk
about such things. You make me nervous.”

“There is nothing to be nervous about, my dear.”

“Then why am I not to repeat what you say to Uncle Ran?” demanded Marie in an
inconsequent manner. “Because I think if Mr. Sorley got that peacock he would be
greedy enough to keep it to himself.”

“He couldn’t. It’s mine.”

“He would, because he looks upon your property as his own.”

“The peacock was left to me by my father’s will, along with the park and the
house,” insisted Marie folding her hands pensively. “It was particularly
mentioned because of the good fortune it will bring—that is when the secret is
discovered.”

“The secret. What secret?” Alan spoke almost sharply. “That connected with the
golden peacock. You know the story?”

“Only that there is such a fetish, which is supposed to be the luck of the
Inderwicks.”

“And has been for one hundred years and more. But the secret———”

“I have heard nothing about that.”

“Now I come to think of it, I daresay you haven’t. I only became acquainted with
the real meaning of the peacock of jewels a year ago. I read all about it in a
manuscript which I found in the library. When was the battle of Plassey, Alan?”

“In 1757,” answered Fuller, who had a good memory for dates. “It was won by Lord
Clive, wasn’t it?”

“Yes. But what has that to do with the peacock?”

“A great deal, as you shall hear.”

“One moment, Marie. Is this peacock of Indian workmanship?”

“No. It was made by a man called Simon Ferrier, who was the servant of my great
great great—I don’t know how many greats—grandfather.”

“Let us say the grandfather who lived about the time of Plassey. What was his
name?”

“George Inderwick. He went to India to———” Here Marie broke off and looked at
her lover searchingly. “But why do you ask about the peacock?”

“I’ll explain that when I have heard the legend.”

“It isn’t a legend, but a true story, and you are very mysterious,” said the
girl somewhat incoherently. “Well then, George Inderwick went out to India long
before the battle of Plassey in the hope of restoring the family fortunes. He
was only a younger brother and left The Monastery in possession of Julian
Inderwick. Things were very bad with the family then and they have been worse
since. Now”—Marie sighed—“everything is lost unless the treasure is discovered.”

“The treasure?” Alan looked excited. “Is there a treasure?”

“Of course, you stupid thing. That is the secret of the peacock.”

Alan became exasperated by the way in which he had to drag things out of her and
frowned. “I wish you would tell me the story clearly,” he said tartly. “I shall
do so if you won’t interrupt so often,” retorted Marie. Then looking round the
quiet dell, as if for inspiration, and finally finding it in the eager look in
her lover’s eyes, she began the tale. “George went to India along with his
servant, Simon Ferrier, who was his foster-brother———”

“Wait a bit,” interrupted Fuller again. “Who wrote this manuscript?”

“Simon Ferrier, and I won’t tell you anything if you keep asking questions,
Alan. How can I speak when you talk?”

“I am dumb, my dearest virago. Go on.”

“I’m not a virago, you horrid boy. Well then, George went to Madras as a clerk
of the East India Company, and was lent to some rajah to drill his army. He
learned soldiering from Lord Clive, although he wasn’t Lord Clive at the time.
Simon went with George to some hill fort and palace and the two became quite
friendly with the rajah. Then some enemy of the native prince they served
stormed the palace or town or whatever it was, and killed the lot of them.”

“Even George and Simon?” asked Alan, noting the loose way in which she was
telling the tale, and privately deciding to ask for the manuscript, so that he
might read it himself. “No, you silly. They were taken prisoners. But before the
place was captured, the Begum—that’s the rajah’s wife—gave all her jewels to Mr.
Inderwick, because he saved her life, and the life of her son. Simon hid them
when he and his master were captured by the other king, or rajah, or———”

“Never mind; say captured by the enemy.”

“Oh, very well,” said Marie obediently, “when they were captured by the enemy.
They were a long time in captivity, and George was forced to drill the native
troops, while Simon was made to work as a jeweller.”

“Why as a jeweller?”

“Oh, it seems that he had been brought up in England as a watchmaker, and having
mended some clock belonging to the enemy, he was set to work in a shop to make
ornaments for the enemy’s wives. He learned how to make Indian ornaments and
became very clever—at least he says so himself, but perhaps he was bragging.”

“I don’t think so, if the stories about the beauty of the peacock he made are to
be believed,” said Fuller thoughtfully, and recalling certain stories related by
old village women who had set eyes on the ornament in question before it had
disappeared. “Go on, dear. This is interesting.”

“The most interesting part is to come,” replied Marie, nodding her small head
with a wise air. “Simon managed to get away, and went back to where he had
hidden the jewels. He dug them up and came to England———”

“Leaving his master in captivity. How shabby of him.”

“He only did what his master told him,” said Marie quickly. “He was to take the
jewels to England and give them to Julian Inderwick so that the fortunes of the
family might be restored. But Simon did not like Julian and found out that he
was a spendthrift and a gambler. If he had given him the jewels they would have
been wasted, and the Inderwicks would have been none the better for them. Simon
therefore said nothing about his mission, but he hid the jewels and then
returned to India to rejoin his master, who was now free and was fighting beside
Lord Clive.”

“Well, and what happened then?”

“When the battle of Plassey was being fought, and before Simon could return to
his master, he was taken prisoner by those who had before held him captive. They
had come to know about the jewels, and insisted that he should tell where they
were. Simon was even tortured to make him tell, but he refused to speak, so they
grew tired and set him to work again, as a jeweller. It was then that he made
the peacock.”

“Why the peacock particularly?”

“Because he wished to let George Inderwick know where the jewels of the Begum
were hidden in England, and could only do so by indicating the place through
this golden peacock.”

“But in what way?”

“I don’t know. I can’t find out. Simon feared lest the secret should be
discovered by the Indians and lest they should send someone to England to get
back the gems. He therefore, as I say, made the peacock, and contrived to have
it taken to George Inderwick through a native who was friendly to him. He then
died, after writing the manuscript, telling his master that the secret was
hidden in the peacock. He was murdered, I believe, as he says at the end of his
manuscript that he expected to be put to death.”

“But what was the use of sending the secret to George when it could not be
guessed?”

“It _was_ stupid,” admitted Marie thoughtfully, “since George never managed to
find out from the peacock where the jewels were. In his anxiety to keep the
secret from everyone but his master, Simon over-reached himself, and entirely
forgot that George would find it as hard to learn the truth as anyone else into
whose hands the peacock fell. However, he died, and the ornament with the
manuscript came to George. After the battle of Plassey George returned home with
some money, and tried hard to learn the whereabouts of the jewels from the
peacock. Julian by this time had died, so the younger brother succeeded to the
estate—what there was left of it. He—George, I mean—was poor all his life, as he
brought back very little from India, and all he could do was to keep what Julian
had left.”

“Well?” asked Alan, seeing that she said no more. “That is all. George left a
will saying that the jewels were to be found if the secret of the peacock was
discovered. But Simon, in his desire to keep them safe, had hidden the truth too
securely. Everyone has tried to find the truth, even Uncle Ran, for I asked him,
but all have failed.”

“How much are the jewels worth?” asked Fuller after a pause. “Oh,” Marie jumped
up and spread her hands, “thousands and thousands of pounds, dear! One hundred
thousand, two hundred thousand, I don’t know how much. There are rubies and
emeralds and opals and diamonds and—and——” she stopped for want of breath.
“Isn’t it wonderful, Alan?”

“Wonderful indeed,” admitted the young man. “So there is one or two hundred
thousand pounds attached to the possession of the peacock of jewels if its
secret can only be discovered. Hum! It’s worth risking one’s neck for.”

Marie ran up and shook him by the arm. “How can you say such horrid things?”

“I am not talking of my own neck, Marie, but of that belonging to the man who
murdered Baldwin Grison.”

“Oh.” The girl stared. “I know that the poor man was murdered. Mrs.
Millington—she’s the village dressmaker, and a friend of mine—told me about that
crime. Louisa Grison was Mrs. Millington’s bridesmaid, and they are very much
attached, and—and—but, Alan, what has the peacock to do with this horrid
murder?”

“Much. Baldwin Grison was murdered, as I truly believe, so that his assassin
might obtain it. Now listen, dear, and be sure you don’t repeat what I say to
your uncle.”

“No, I won’t. Though I don’t see why you want to keep things secret from him. Go
on. What is it?”

Fuller quickly and concisely told her all that he had learned from Dick Latimer
and Inspector Moon relative to the Rotherhithe murder, and laid great stress on
the fact that Jotty the street-arab had seen the peacock of jewels. Marie
listened with open mouth. “But you can’t be sure that the poor man was murdered
because of the peacock,” she said when he ended. “Besides, how could he have
it?”

“Oh, that last is easy. Grison was your uncle’s secretary and may have taken the
peacock out of revenge, knowing that Mr. Sorley was fond of jewels. On the other
hand, Grison may have read the very same manuscript about which you have been
telling me and might have tried to learn the secret.”

“Then he could not have,” cried the girl positively, “else he would not have
remained in that horrid slum. Who has the peacock now?”

“The assassin.”

“Who is he?”

“No one knows, and no one can find out.”

“But are you sure Mr. Grison was murdered because of the peacock?” asked Marie
again, and doubtfully. “I think so, since the room was ransacked, and Grison had
no other object of value in his miserable dwelling to tempt anyone to commit a
crime.”

“Well, it might be so. But why am I not to tell Uncle Ran?”

“Because I wish to find the peacock and deliver the assassin of Grison to
justice. If Mr. Sorley goes on the trail also he will get the peacock and will
not give it to you, to whom it rightfully belongs.”

“I see. Of course I shall say nothing. And Alan”—she laid her arms round her
lover’s neck——“do find the peacock, and let us look for the treasure.”

“And then?” questioned the young man, smiling at the bright face. “Then! then,”
said Miss Inderwick, dancing away from him, “why then, you stupid creature, we
can marry and defy Uncle Ran.”

CHAPTER IV AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR

“Now that we have finished our secret conversation,” said Fuller some time
later, when the pair were returning towards the avenue, “I shall call and pay my
respects to your uncle.”

“I don’t think he wants to see you,” answered Marie very candidly, “he is quite
aware that I love you and wishes to keep us apart.”

“No doubt, my dear, but I don’t intend him to get his own way. He never can, so
long as you remain true to me.”

Marie squeezed the arm she held. “As if there was any question of that. All the
same, Uncle Ran is sure to be nasty if you call.”

“He was amiable enough yesterday when we met, and outwardly he has no reason to
overstep the bounds of politeness. I intend to call in order to show him that I
am quite friendly, and if he objects he can speak out.”

“He’s asleep yet, I expect,” objected Marie anxiously. “All the better. We shall
have a longer time to ourselves, and you can give me a cup of tea.”

“Uncle Ran would assuredly object to that,” said the girl with emphasis. “He is
becoming a perfect miser. Every penny he obtains he turns into jewels, Alan,
although owing to want of money he can only buy cheap stones.”

“So long as he uses his own money and not yours he can do what he likes, I
suppose, Marie. But you have an income and the house, so he has no right to
object to your extending afternoon-tea hospitality to me.”

“I never get any of my own money except a few shillings a week for my pocket,”
admitted Marie rather mournfully. “You know Uncle Ran was left my sole guardian,
and I do not come of age for another year. Then he says he will account to me
for my money, which he declares he is saving.”

Remembering Mr. Sorley’s shifty eyes and slack mouth, Fuller had his doubts as
to the truth of this statement, and merely grunted. But when Marie went on to
say that her uncle was selling portions of the furniture he raised his eyebrows.
“He has no right to do that without your consent, my dear.”

“He says that he has, and that there is too much furniture in the place. I
understand from him that he is selling the furniture in order to invest the
money for me.”

“Hum! It may be so, but I should not be too sure of that. I wish I were your
husband now, Marie, and then I could look after your interests.”

“You don’t trust Uncle Ran?”

“Candidly, I don’t, although I have no very strong reason to say so. Do you
trust him yourself, Marie?”

“I don’t know; I can’t say,” said the girl slowly; “of course he has been kind
to me since I returned a year ago from Brighton, where I was at school, Alan. He
doesn’t interfere with me, you know.”

“He lets you run wild, if that’s what you mean, my dear,” retorted the solicitor
hotly. “Now that it does you any harm of course, as you are a sensible girl. But
Mr. Sorley should take you out visiting and let you go to dances occasionally,
and you should have a few days in London every now and then. He should not
neglect you as he does.”

“We are too poor to afford such things, Alan. But some day when we find the
treasure, we—you and I of course—shall have a splendid time. Remember the
prophecy, my dear,” and she repeated two lines of the same:

“Jewels and gold from over-seas Will bring them peace and joy and ease.”

Alan was struck by the quotation from a three hundred year old oracle after
hearing Marie’s story of the secret which possession and examination of the
peacock would reveal. “Jewels and gold,” he repeated slowly, “yes; it does sound
as though that line referred to the Begum’s hoard. Odd, very odd indeed.”

“It will come true, it will come true,” sang Marie, dancing a step or two in her
gleeful way, and with the exuberant joy of twenty. “Then we’ll pension Uncle Ran
off, and have The Monastery and the money to ourselves. Oh, Alan, let us build
castles in the air.”

“They won’t turn into bricks and mortar until we find the peacock,” said Mr.
Fuller gloomily, “and that will not be easy, seeing it means the capture of poor
Grison’s assassin. Moon can find out nothing and if he fails how can mere
amateur detectives such as Dick and I are succeed. However, we know that he was
murdered for the sake of the peacock, and this strange story of yours helps a
bit to strengthen the clue. But let me impress upon you again, Marie, not to
tell your uncle.”

“Certainly not, though I really don’t know why you mistrust him.”

“I scarcely know myself,” said Alan candidly, “but I certainly do.”

By this time—walking demurely apart in case Mr. Sorley should be awake and on
the watch—they had entered the house, to find themselves in a large and chilly
hall, with a black and white pavement and marble busts of the Cæsars set round
about it close to the walls. No rosy glow came from the old-fashioned fireplace,
since Mr. Sorley deemed it waste of coal to heat such a mausoleum; so, with a
shiver, the two crossed into the library, which was at the end of a lordly
corridor to the right. “There’s a fire here,” said Marie as they entered, “it’s
Uncle Ran’s favorite room, and you can trust him to make himself comfortable,
even if he has to pay for it.”

“Then he can’t be a genuine miser,” remarked Fuller, walking towards the fire,
which was a tolerably good one; “they starve themselves in every way, my dear,
and—oh, I beg your pardon.”

This last was addressed to a small elderly woman who suddenly rose from a deep
grandfather’s chair which looked like a sentry-box. She had sandy hair smoothly
plastered down on either side of a sallow, wrinkled face; also thin, firmly
compressed lips and hard blue eyes, staring and unwinking. Her figure was lean,
her waist was pinched in, and her shoulders were so sloping that the worn black
velvet cloak she wore would have slipped off had it not been firmly fastened
down the front with large buttons of cut jet. As the cloak was down to her very
heels, the dress she had on could not be seen, but her head was adorned with an
early Victorian bonnet and her thin hands were covered with drab thread gloves.
She had crape on her bonnet, and crape round her neck, but it did not need this
evidence of mourning to assure Fuller that he beheld the sister of the dead man,
since he remembered Dick’s description fairly well. “Miss Grison,” said Marie,
coming forward when she heard her lover’s speech and offering her hand. “I heard
you were down here.”

Miss Grison took the hand, gave it a limp shake and dropped it. “Thank you, my
dear,” she said in a cold, precise voice. “I came down for my brother’s funeral.
He always wished to rest in Belstone churchyard and have the service read over
his remains by Mr. Fuller, so I felt it was only due to his memory to do what he
desired.”

“This is Mr. Fuller’s son,” said Marie, introducing Alan. “How do you do,” said
the visitor, still coldly. “I remember you years ago as a little boy with bare
legs and a pinafore. You have grown since then.”

“It is impossible to have bare legs and a pinafore at twenty-seven,” said Alan,
not knowing if she was laughing at him. “Twenty and more years ago I saw you,”
said Miss Grison, who certainly seemed to have no sense of humor. “Ah, how the
time passes. You were just born when I left Belstone to live in London,” she
added, glancing in her hard way at Marie, “a mere infant in arms.”

“I have seen you a few times though,” murmured Marie politely. Miss Grison
nodded stiffly. “Occasionally I have come down to stay with Selina Millington,”
she explained, “and we met before you went to school at Brighton. But since your
return a year ago we have not met, as I have not been down here. How did you
recognise me?”

“You are not changed in any way,” said Marie bluntly. “I should be,” remarked
the little woman with a sigh, “my poor Baldwin’s death has broken my heart.”

“It was very terrible,” Marie hastened to assure her. “I read about it in the
newspapers. Who killed him?”

“That’s what I intend to find out,” cried Miss Grison with a flash of her blue
eyes. “Poor Baldwin never harmed a soul, and had no enemies—except one,” she
ended with an afterthought, and her lips closed firmly. “Perhaps the one enemy
killed him.”

“I don’t know. I can’t prove anything. And the police seem to be doubtful about
tracing the man.”

“It was a man then who murdered your brother?” asked Alan suddenly. Miss Grison
gave him a scrutinizing look. “Yes, it was a man, as I truly believe, although
there is no evidence to show the sex of the murderer.”

“What is the name of the person you think was your brother’s enemy?”

“Never mind, Mr. Fuller. I may misjudge him, and until I am sure I shall mention
no names. But I shall watch and search and think and work until I avenge poor
Baldwin’s death!” And the fierce, determined look on her yellow face showed that
she thoroughly meant what she said. “Can I help you in any way?”

“Why should you?” she asked cautiously. “Because I take an interest in the
case,” Alan explained equally cautiously. “A friend of mine, Mr. Latimer, who
was at the inquest, told me all about the sad circumstances, and the death is so
mysterious that both of us wish to learn the truth, if only out of curiosity.”

The little woman paused almost imperceptibly and cast a swift look at the young
man and the girl by his side before replying. Then she accepted the well-meant
offer in her usual unemotional way. “I shall be glad of your assistance, Mr.
Fuller,” she said, producing a printed card from a bead bag which dangled from
her lean wrist; “this is my address in Bloomsbury. I keep a boarding-house.”

“So Mr. Latimer told me. You stated as much at the inquest. Tell me,” he asked,
putting the card into his vest pocket, “have you any clue to———”

“I have no clue you would call reasonable, Mr. Fuller!”

“That hints some ground on your part for——”

“Never mind what it hints,” interrupted Miss Grison sharply. “If you call on me
in London, and I feel that I can trust you, then I may speak out.”

“Anyone could trust Alan,” said Marie indignantly. The visitor gave a thin-
lipped smile. “You are quite right to defend him, my dear, and your defence is
natural enough since Selina Millington told me that Mr. Fuller admires you. But
he’s a man and all men are bad——”

“Except Alan, who is engaged to be married to me.”

“All men are bad,” repeated Miss Grison stolidly. “I only knew one good man, and
he was my brother Baldwin. “H’m!” murmured Alan, remembering what Sorley had
said on the previous day. If Miss Grison heard the ejaculation, and understood
its purport, she gave no sign of such knowledge. “What does your Uncle Randolph
say to your being engaged to Mr. Fuller?” she asked turning to Marie abruptly.
“He says nothing, because he knows nothing.”

“Then don’t let him know. He will ruin your happiness in life if he can, as he
ruined mine. A hard, cruel man is your Uncle Randolph, my dear.”

Marie stared at this wholesale condemnation. “Do you know him well?”

“Do I know him well?” Miss Grison gave a hard laugh, and her eyes glittered
viciously. “Yes, I may say that I know him very well.”

Alan, looking closely at her, wondered if the enemy of her brother to whom she
had referred so positively was Mr. Sorley, and thought that it was extremely
likely from the vicious emphasis with which she spoke. But Miss Grison, giving
him no time to make any comment on her last speech, continued as though she had
not stopped to draw breath. “I know the house very well also,” she said calmly,
“and I have been walking all over it, while waiting to see Mr. Sorley.”

“Walking all over it,” repeated Marie rather indignantly. “A stranger?”

“I am not a stranger either to Mr. Sorley or to The Monastery,” replied the
small woman with great coolness. “When my brother was his secretary here, years
ago, I used to spend days wandering about the rooms and corridors. I know every
nook and corner of it, my dear, and could tell you of many a secret hiding-place
and hidden passage which were used in ancient times. Your mother made a friend
of me in those days, and we used to explore the house together before you were
born.”

“Still Uncle Ran would not like you walking about the place when I was out and
he was asleep. Didn’t Jenny or Henny stop you?”

“Do you mean the servants?” inquired Miss Grison smoothly. “Well they did
express surprise when I walked into the kitchen. But I told them I had come to
see Mr. Sorley, and they showed me in here to wait for him—as if I required
showing,” ended Miss Grison disdainfully. Fuller stared at her hard. She seemed
to be in her right senses and what she said was reasonable enough, but it struck
him that there must be something eccentric about her when she ventured to enter
a house and explore it without the owner’s permission. Again Miss Grison gave
him no time to make a comment, but went on talking in the shrill voice which
Latimer had noted and mentioned. “Henrietta and Jane Trent are twins,” she
explained to Marie as if the girl knew nothing about her own servants. “I
remember them as little toddlers in the village. The mother took in washing.
Fine bouncing women they have grown into, my dear: red cheeks and black hair and
wooden expressions, just like two Dutch dolls. Are they good servants?”

Marie was so taken aback by the audacity of her visitor that she replied, as she
would have done to her schoolmistress: “They are very good and do all the work
of this big house.”

“There is a lot to do, I admit,” said Miss Grison, nodding, “but I notice that
many of the rooms are shut up, my dear.”

“We—uncle and I, that is—do not require so many.”

“I looked into some, and found them bare of furniture,” pursued Miss Grison
calmly, and with her hard, unwinking stare. “Yet in my time there was a lot of
valuable——”

“Pardon me, Miss Grison,” interrupted Fuller, seeing the consternation of Marie,
“but don’t you think you are taking rather a liberty in entering the house and
in talking like this?”

“It may appear a liberty to you, Mr. Fuller,” she rejoined quietly, “but it will
not to Mr. Sorley. We are old friends.”

“Friends,” said Alan with emphasis. She turned on him with a flash in her eyes.
“Did he ever give you to understand otherwise?” she demanded, drawing quick
breaths. “Has he ever mentioned my name to you?”

She waited for a reply but none came, as Alan was deliberating whether it would
be wise to inform her of the way in which Mr. Sorley had spoken. Also he
wondered if Miss Grison knew that her brother had been murdered for the sake of
the peacock, and if she could tell how Baldwin became possessed of the same. But
he felt that it would be best not to ask questions, or to make answers, until he
knew his ground better. With her hard look, the little woman waited for him to
speak, but he was saved the trouble by the unexpected entrance of Mr. Randolph
Sorley. He was perfectly dressed as usual in a well-cut suit of blue serge and
wore patent leather boots, together with a smart scarf of white silk fastened
with a black pearl breast-pin. If he was a miser in some things, as Marie
asserted, he assuredly was not so in the matter of clothes, for no one could
have been better turned out, or have looked more aristocratic. His carriage was
so upright, his hair so short, his face so bronzed and his greenish eyes so
alert that he had quite a military appearance. He even looked young in the dusky
atmosphere of the big room, and it was only when he came forward more into the
light that he betrayed his sixty years. And that was possibly because Alan knew
his true age, for the smooth, clean-shaven face looked much younger in spite of
the white hair. “Mr. Fuller! Miss Grison,” he said slowly, “this is indeed a
surprise. I am delighted to see you both.”

And indeed he appeared to be so, for his smile was open, his speech soft and his
manner frank. After what he had said about the woman on the previous day Fuller
quite expected that he would be rude to her and—since he had other plans in his
head—the young man quite expected that he would be rude to him also. But Mr.
Sorley was apparently too well-bred to act impolitely in what he regarded as his
own house, even if that same house was the property of Marie Inderwick. Miss
Grison’s blue eyes glittered a trifle more as he shook hands with her cordially
but otherwise she remained her impenetrable self. And remembering what she had
said about her host, Alan was as amazed at her behavior as he was at Sorley’s.
As to Marie, she was so relieved that her uncle received Alan courteously that
she never gave a thought to the possibility that he might be acting a part for
reasons best known to himself. “Have you had tea?” inquired Mr. Sorley, poking
the fire. “Marie, my dear, why did you not offer your guests tea?” And he rang
the bell promptly. “I did not like to without your permission, Uncle Ran,” she
said timidly. “My dear child, this is your house, and here you are the mistress.
I am only your guardian and live here, as it were, on sufferance. Miss Grison I
am truly grieved to hear of your brother’s death.”

“Oh, indeed,” said the small woman sarcastically, “in that case, I wonder you
didn’t come to the funeral.”

“No! no! no! That would have awakened memories of the past.”

“There is a proverb,” remarked Miss Grison coldly, “which bids us let sleeping
dogs lie.”

“Very good advice,” assented Mr. Sorley, “suppose we adopt it by letting the sad
past alone and coming to the sad present. Have the police discovered who
murdered your brother?”

“No,” snapped Miss Grison impassively. “Are they likely to?”

“If I can help them, they certainly are.”

“Then you know of some clue?”

“I may, or I may not. This is not the time to speak about such things.”

“My dear lady,” said the host with great dignity, “I am under the impression
that you came here to receive my sympathy.”

“Then you were never more mistaken in your life,” retorted Miss Grison grimly.
“I came to say what I shall say, when tea is at an end.”

“Nothing unpleasant, I trust?” asked Sorley distinctly uneasily. “That is for
you to judge,” she returned, and the entrance of Henny Trent with a tray put an
end to this particular conversation. While Henny, who was large and red-cheeked
and black-eyed, and who really resembled the Dutch doll Miss Grison had compared
her to, was arranging the tea-table, Alan stole furtive looks at Mr. Sorley. The
old gentleman seemed to have suddenly aged, and a haggard look had crept over
his deceptive face, while his eyes hinted uneasiness as he watched Miss Grison.
It seemed to Fuller that Sorley for some reason feared his visitor, and the fact
that she had so audaciously walked over the house appeared to indicate that she
was quite sure he would not rebuke her for the liberty. And, remembering the
man’s bluster, which contrasted so pointedly with his present suave talk, Alan
felt confident that there was an understanding between them. He asked himself if
such had to do with the murder, but replied mentally in the negative. If Sorley
knew anything about the matter, Miss Grison would then and there have denounced
him, since she appeared to hate him as much as he dreaded her. But beyond short
answers and sinister glances, she gave no sign of her enmity, while Sorley
masked his uneasiness under the guise of small talk. In spite of the almost
immediate occurrence of the murder, and the fact that Miss Grison had come down
for the funeral, Fuller noted that the tragedy was scarcely referred to—at all
events during the earlier part of the conversation. Along with Marie, he
remained silent, and allowed the other two to converse. “Are you staying long
down here, Miss Grison?” asked the host, handing a cup of tea to her and a plate
of thin bread and butter. “Why don’t you call me Louisa as you used to do?” she
demanded. “We were great friends, you know, Marie, before you were born.” She
turned to Miss Inderwick. “Yes yes,” said Sorley, taking his cue. “You called me
Randolph; but we are both too old now to use our Christian names.” He laughed
artificially. “Are we?” said Miss Grison shortly. “Perhaps we are. How are you
getting along with that book on precious stones, may I ask?”

“You may,” said Sorley blandly. “I am getting on slowly but surely. It has taken
me years to gather material.”

“Precious stones, I suppose.”

“Certain gems of small value amongst other material, such as legends and
superstitions connected with jewels. It will be an interesting book.”

“I’m sure it will,” said Miss Grison more graciously, “but don’t work too hard
at it. You are fond of exercise?”

“Yes, I take a great deal.”

“Ah, Selina Millington told me that you had bought a motor bicycle.”

“Yes,” said Sorley stiffly and still laboriously polite. “I ride it round the
country.”

“And up to London?”

“No,” he replied swiftly. “I have not yet travelled on it to town.”

“I don’t think it takes many hours to get to town on so rapid a machine,” said
Miss Grison in a musing tone. “But perhaps you are wise; you might get knocked
over in the streets.”

What answer Sorley made to this speech Alan did not hear. Marie, who had
resented his attention to the speech of the elderly couple, now insisted that he
should converse with her. He did so rather unwillingly, in spite of his genuine
love. But his brain was running on the odd and somewhat spasmodic conversation,
and he wondered why Miss Grison so pointedly referred to the motor bicycle. Also
it seemed strange that Sorley should be on such familiar terms with a humble
woman who kept a Bloomsbury boarding-house. To be sure her brother had been the
man’s secretary, and Sorley probably had been intimate with the visitor in early
days. Perhaps—and here Fuller started—perhaps the two had been in love, and the
hatred Miss Grison felt for the well-preserved old gentleman was that of a woman
scorned. When he again caught the drift of the conversation she was talking
about cryptograms, and this also Alan thought strange. “My poor brother was
always trying to work out secret writings,” said she. “Why?” asked Sorley, again
uneasy at this mention of the dead. “I don’t know,” answered Miss Grison
indifferently. “He wanted to learn some secret that would bring him money.”

“In connection with what?”

“I don’t know.”

“Did he ever decipher the secret writing you refer to?”

“I don’t know,” said Miss Grison again. “He spent his days and nights in trying
to work out the cryptogram.’

“Alan,” murmured Marie under her breath on hearing this, “there is some
cryptogram connected with the peacock, I fancy.”

“Yes! yes, and he had it,” said Fuller hastily. Then he raised his voice. “Are
you talking about ciphers, Miss Grison? I am fond of solving them myself and
indeed I am rather good at it.”

“Are you?” It was Mr. Sorley who replied and not the woman. “I think that I
could puzzle you.”

“No, you couldn’t,” rejoined Alan deliberately boastful. “Set me any cryptogram
and I am sure I can solve it. I go on the system of Poe.”

“What is that?”

Before he could answer Miss Grison rose, and shaking the crumbs from her dress
walked to the door. There she halted, and turned to fix cold eyes on her
astonished host, who had not expected so abrupt a move in the midst of an
agreeable conversation. “I have eaten and drunk in this house,” said Miss Grison
sternly, “a thing I never believed that I could bring myself to do. Now I shall
say what I came to say to you, Mr. Randolph Sorley, and shake the dust from my
feet.”

“Hadn’t you better speak to me privately?” asked Sorley, rising with a wan smile
and a white face. “I think not. What I have to say can be heard by both these
young people, who are aware of the opinion I have of you. You are a wicked and
cruel and sinful man, worse than the worst of men, although all are bad now that
my poor brother is dead.”

“Your brother Bald——”

“Don’t dare to take his name on your lips,” interrupted Miss Grison in a fierce
way. “His death is due to you.”

“To me? How dare you accuse me of the murder?” Sorley was whiter than ever and
seemed much shaken by the abrupt accusation. “I don’t. But I accuse you of
having wrongfully dismissed Baldwin from this house, over twenty years ago.”

“I dismissed him, if you will have the truth told in the presence of others,
because he forged my name to a check.”

“He did not. You malign the dead. You turned him out and soiled his name and
ruined his life without a shadow of excuse. That he sank to a slum in
Rotherhithe is your work; that he was murdered there is your work, for if he had
not been in Rotherhithe he would not have died by violence. If you had dared to
come to the funeral I should have spat on your wicked face.”

“How dare you! how dare you! Marie, go to your room.”

“Marie shall stay until she hears what I think of you,” cried Miss Grison
grimly. “With that meal you hoped to smooth me down. But I shall never forgive
you for having laid Baldwin in the dust. You have had your turn: now it is my
turn. Wait, wait and see how iniquity can be punished,” and, shaking a menacing
finger, she stalked out of the room. “Mad! mad. She is mad,” gasped Mr. Sorley
and literally tottered out of the library, presumably to follow his denouncer.
“What does it all mean, Alan?” asked Marie with awe. “Why did she turn so
suddenly on Uncle Ran?”

“And why did she mention that her brother was trying to solve some secret
writing which he hoped would bring him money?” asked Fuller quickly. “Her
brother had the peacock and——”

“Exactly. Now Marie we have a clue to the truth.”

CHAPTER V THE LETTER

What Fuller meant exactly when he suggested to Marie that there was now a clue
to the truth may be gathered from one of the frequent conversations he held on
the subject with his friend. Fuller had much to say when he returned to town
from his week-end visit to Belstone, but for some little time he did not find a
favorable moment for an exhaustive talk. He certainly gave Dick a few hints as
to what he had learned, and spoke more or less in a desultory manner, but
Latimer’s time was so fully taken up with journalism that the matter was not
discussed thoroughly until the middle of the week. And even then the chance came
about in a somewhat unexpected way, as Alan took the opportunity to detain the
reporter when he strolled into the Chancery Lane office for a few minutes. Dick
had stated that he was off the chain for a time, and simply wished for a smoke
and a rest. “You can fire away with your work, old son,” said Latimer, taking
possession of the client’s chair. “I sha’n’t bother you.”

“This affair of the peacock bothers me a deal more than you do,” retorted the
solicitor, “and I am glad to get you to myself for a few minutes to talk it
over. Hitherto you have always rushed off when I wanted you.”

“Humanity demands my services, Alan,” said Dick ironically, “and I have to earn
a ridiculously small income by attending to the squalling of brother man.
However, I am at your disposal for one entire hour, so you can burble to your
heart’s content.”

“There is much more than burbling in this matter,” rejoined the other man
gravely. “You don’t take so much interest in this matter as I expected you to,
Dick, considering our first conversation on the matter.”

Latimer, with a lighted match held over the filled bowl of his pipe, looked up
quickly. “Oh, but I do, my son. I am very interested indeed, and if you have
things to tell me, as I gather from what you have let drop since you came back
from the country, I have information also.”

“What about?”

“First your story and then mine,” said Dick imperturbably. “All things in order,
old boy. I suppose none of your confounded clients will come in to interrupt.”

“I don’t think so. Things are slack just now, and I am rather glad that they
are, as I shall have time to attend to the Rotherhithe matter.”

Dick grunted and shook himself, looking like a huge good-natured bear in the fur
overcoat which the bitter cold of the December day demanded. “I don’t see the
use of your bothering about the business unless you are legally retained to
thresh it out. Why waste your time?”

“Far from wasting my time,” said Alan quietly, “the solution of this mystery
means that Miss Inderwick may acquire a large fortune.”

“And you, by marrying Miss Inderwick, will gain possession of the same along
with a tolerably pretty young woman,” said Latimer dryly. Fuller’s dark eyes
flashed. “She’s the loveliest girl in the world,” he cried vehemently, “and you
know it.”

“I ought to, since you have told me as much as fifty times. But I say, your hint
of a large fortune sounds interesting. How much?”

“One hundred to two hundred thousand pounds.”

Dick whistled. “The deuce. We are playing with crowns and kingdoms it seems, old
son. Fire away. I’m all attention, in the hope that some of the cash may come
into my pockets.”

Alan took no notice of this flippant remark, but went into the outer office to
tell his clerk that he would be engaged for one hour. As a solicitor with a
small but certain practice Fuller only enjoyed the ownership of two dingy rooms
very badly lighted and still more badly furnished. His inner sanctum only
contained a large writing-table, a green-painted iron safe, a shabby bookcase
filled with law volumes bound in calf, and a few cane-bottomed chairs. A window
with a slanting silvered glass outside to attract the light and reflect it into
the dark room, was opposite the door, and beside it was a small grate in which
at the present moment burned an equally small fire. Alan returned and seated
himself beside this, taking out his pipe to enjoy the hour during which “he
sported his oak,” as the phrase goes. Dick grunted and sucked at his briar in an
opposite chair, waiting for Fuller to open the conversation. “I told you that
Miss Inderwick had given me a clue,” began Alan, but was cut short by his
friend. “Why not ‘Marie’ to me, my haughty solicitor?”

“By all means,” said Fuller readily, “since I keep nothing from you. But I have
fallen so much into the habit of speaking stiffly about Marie to outsiders, so
as to prevent old Sorley from interfering, that I forget how implicitly I can
trust you.”

“I sha’n’t say a word about your wooing to the man, if that’s what you mean,”
growled Dick, “but if you talk of ‘Miss Inderwick’ I shall expect you to call me
‘Mr. Latimer.’”

“Oh, hang your nonsense. Let us get to business.”

“How can we when you talk all round the shop?” protested Dick, raising his
eyebrows. “Well, go on. You hinted to me that you spoke to Marie about the
peacock.”

“I did, but not to Mr. Sorley.”

“Why not?”

“Because I don’t trust him.”

“Why not?” inquired Latimer once more and very stolidly. “Now you ask me a
question which is not easy to answer,” said Alan, looking meditatively into the
fire. “I can give no reason for my mistrust since, so far as I know, Sorley is
straight enough on the whole.”

“Well then, if he is straight, why mistrust him?”

“I said on the whole he is straight; but he does certain things of which I do
not approve.”

“Such as stopping your wooing,” chuckled the journalist. “Ho! Ho!”

“I rather refer to his selling certain valuable furniture which belongs to
Marie, and which I am pretty sure he has no right to dispose of.”

“It sounds crooked. But after all he is her guardian, and you don’t know what
power the will of her father gives him.”

“I mean to find that out by an examination of the will at Somerset House, Dicky.
Sorley enjoys Marie’s income and his own and has the benefit of living at The
Monastery rent free. He is, as you know, crazy about jewels, and from what Marie
tells me he uses all the cash to buy them. She only has her clothes and a few
shillings a week for pocket money. But he never allows her to go into county
society, nor does he take her to town.”

Latimer removed his pipe and nodded. “He wants her to remain as a flower unseen
until she is of age. Then he will hand over the accumulated money in the form of
jewels, and will present her to an astonished world when she come of age in a
year and his guardianship ceases.”

“Hum!” said Alan dubiously, “so you say. But my impressions are quite different.
It is my opinion that this precious guardian will not be able to render an
honest account of his stewardship, but, when required to do so, will bolt with
the jewels upon which he has squandered Marie’s money and with the fortune of
the peacock if he can find the same.”

“Is there any difficulty in finding it, Alan?”

“Yes. In the first place the fortune is hidden and only by gaining possession of
the peacock can the clue be found to its whereabouts. And in the second place,
even if that bird——”

“The ooff-bird,” suggested Latimer vulgarly. “If you like. But even if it is
found there will be a difficulty in reading its riddle.”

“Its riddle? Whatever do you mean?”

“What I say,” retorted Fuller impatiently. “The secret of the fortune is
connected with some secret writing which has to do with the peacock.”

“But how can there be secret writing on a metal ornament?”

“I can’t say. I don’t know. There’s an enigma of some sort, a cryptogram.”

“This is very interesting but patchy,” said Dick, readjusting his big body in
the chairs. “Suppose you tell me all from the beginning. Then I might get a
glimmer of what you exactly mean.”

“Very good, then don’t interrupt.” And Alan related the strange story of George
Inderwick and his faithful servant, who had preserved the secret so faithfully
indeed that not even the master had been able to find the jewels. Latimer
listened with great attention, and nodded when the story was concluded with an
air of satisfaction. “It’s quite a romance,” he declared slowly, when Fuller
waited for comment, “and there is no doubt that the assassin stole the peacock
by murdering Grison in order to get the Begum’s gems. No man would have been
such a fool as to risk his neck otherwise for a paltry ornament.”

“I am not so sure of that, seeing how valuable the peacock is,” rejoined the
other doubtfully. “It is—as I learned from my father, who saw this fetish of the
Inderwicks—as large as a thrush; of pure gold elaborately worked, and is studded
with precious stones of more or less price. The tail is spread out and is also
jewelled. Now any of those Lascars or Dagoes in Mother Slaig’s boarding-house
would not mind killing a man by cutting his throat to gain possession of such an
object.”

“Ah, but the man was not killed in that way. A seaman of whatever nationality
would cut a throat, but would not use a slender instrument which scarcely drew
any blood to get rid of Grison. The instrument used—which has not been
discovered, by the way—suggests a refined criminal.”

“A slender instrument,” repeated Fuller musingly, “why not a stiletto which an
Italian would use? And there are Italian seamen, you know.”

Dick nodded. “There is something in that,” he admitted, “but we’ll let that
point alone for the time being. Evidently the peacock is worth more than its
intrinsic value to a man who can solve its mystery. Now the question is, how did
Grison get hold of the ornament?”

“I see no trouble in answering that, Dicky,” and again Alan told the story: this
time that one which dealt with Grison’s dismissal from his post by Sorley on a
charge of forgery, and with the visit of the sister to the big house. Then he
related how Miss Grison had spoken to her host and also how she had talked about
cryptograms. “Although,” concluded Alan, “since I was talking to Marie at the
time, I don’t exactly know how she introduced that particular subject.”

“That she introduced it at all, shows two things,” said Latimer decisively.
“One, that she knew her brother stole the peacock; and two, she was aware how he
was searching for the solution of the cryptogram connected with the bird in
order to secure the gems.”

“But how could he have learned about the Begum’s treasure?” asked Fuller.
“Undoubtedly in the same way as Marie did. Grison, as Sorley’s secretary, must
have found the manuscript and——”

“But if he found it, why did he not take it with him?”

“I can’t explain that. He would have done better had he secured it so that no
one else should learn the true value of the peacock. But it was to get the gems
that he stole the ornament, and perhaps told the story in a moment of weakness
to the third party who afterwards murdered him for its possession. That’s what I
think. Have you any reason to believe that Sorley himself knows about the
peacock cryptogram?”

Fuller jumped up and, laying down his pipe, began to pace the narrow confines of
the office. “Yes, I do, and for these reasons. In the first place, Miss Grison
would not have mentioned cryptograms to him without she guessed that he knew
something; in the second, when I boasted purposely about my knowledge of secret
writings, he would not have told me that he had a cryptogram which would baffle
my skill, as he certainly did more or less; and in the third, Dicky, he would
not have been afraid of Miss Grison.”

“What do you mean by that exactly?”

“Well, Sorley told me that he hated Miss Grison and that she annoyed him by
saying that he had dismissed her brother unjustly and had practically ruined his
life. She walked into the house and all over the house, and yet Sorley did not
dare to object either to her taking such a liberty or to her calling him names
when Marie and I were present. Also she asked about his motor cycle which I told
you he had bought, and inquired if he had been to London. He denied that he had,
and she sarcastically advised him not to go lest he should be knocked over in
the streets.”

“Then I infer,” said Dick, slowly removing his pipe, “that you believe Miss
Grison suspects Sorley of knowing both the secret of the peacock and that it was
in the possession of her brother. Also that he came up to town by means of his
motor cycle and murdered the man for its possession?”

“Yes, I do infer as much,” said Fuller bluntly and returning to his chair. “If
Sorley has not the peacock, and does not know the story of Ferrier, why should
he speak to me about cryptograms?”

“But he only made an idle remark which was natural, seeing that Miss Grison
spoke of cryptograms, although I admit that it is strange she should talk about
them at all unless——”

“Exactly,” interrupted the solicitor, tilting back his chair so as to get at the
drawer of his writing-table; “unless she believes that he murdered her brother
and now possesses the peacock with an intention of learning the cryptogram by
employing me to solve it.”

“Sorley would scarcely do that when he knows that if he is guilty, such a
revelation of his possession of the peacock would condemn him.”

“You forget,” said Alan, who had extracted a letter from the drawer, “that the
fact of the murder being committed for the sake of the peacock has not yet been
made public. As I said, I told Marie, but I did not tell Sorley because I
mistrust him, and warned her not to do so either. So if Miss Grison’s assumption
is true Sorley will have no hesitation in enlisting my services, or in showing
me the peacock, always presuming that he is indeed the murderer and has it in
his possession.”

Latimer nodded three times solemnly. “It _is_ strange, and you argue very well,
my son. What’s that letter you are holding?”

“It’s from Sorley and came yesterday morning. I have not had an opportunity of
talking about it to you before, as you have been so confoundedly busy. It is a
letter,” said Fuller, unfolding the missive, “which illustrates the proverb that
he who excuses himself accuses himself.”

“Ho,” said Latimer with a world of meaning, “read it out, my boy.”

“There is no need to read it. I can give you the gist in a few words,” was
Fuller’s reply, as he ran his eye rapidly over the lines. “Sorley begs me not to
take notice of Miss Grison’s wild words, as she is a trifle mad. He had to
dismiss her brother for forging his name to a check, but, as the man was also
insane—slightly, that is—he did not prosecute him.”

“Very kind and Christian-like, Alan, But why does Sorley put up with Miss
Grison’s vagaries?”

“He declares that he is sorry for her, in this letter.”

“And by word of mouth as good as told you that he hated her. Humph! It seems to
me that our dear friend is hedging. Well, and what more, Alan?”

“Nothing more on the subject of Miss Grison, save that he declares his contempt
for her threats.”

“Threats. What threats?” Dick sat up alertly. “She told him in the presence of
Marie, and in my presence also, that he was to wait and see how iniquity would
be punished.”

“Humph! That looks as though she means to be nasty.”

“Exactly. And Sorley’s cringing to her implies that he guesses she can make
things hot for him. However, he simply ends his letter by saying that when I
come to Belstone for Christmas he will have a chat with me on the subject of
cryptograms. Did I not say, Dick, that his letter illustrates the proverb I
referred to. Why should Sorley think it necessary to explain about Miss Grison
and her crazy words—if indeed they are crazy—or why should he wish to talk about
cryptograms to me, unless——”

“Quite so,” interrupted Dick on the same word and in the same manner as his
friend had stopped him previously. “Unless she believes that Sorley made away
with her brother. It’s a strange case, and grows more complicated as we go into
it.”

“What is your opinion, Dick?”

“It is rather difficult to give a hard and fast one on what facts we have before
us, seeing that we are so much in the dark. By the way, how long has Sorley had
the motor bicycle?”

“He told me, or rather hinted at three weeks, but Marie said that he bought it
four months ago.”

“Humph! So Sorley tells a lie about that, does he? It looks fishy. Certainly on
a good machine he could slip up to town and back again in a night without anyone
being the wiser.”

“Then you think that he committed the murder, by——?” Alan spoke excitedly. “I
can’t say that,” interrupted Latimer swiftly. “Oh! You infer then that he is
innocent?”

“I can’t say that either.”

“Then what the deuce do you say?” demanded the lawyer irritably. “This much.
That before we can be sure of Sorley being mixed up with the crime, we must
learn for certain if he possesses the peacock of jewels.”

“But how can we?”

“_We_ can’t, but _you_ can, Alan. Sorley’s request that you should talk
cryptograms with him at Christmas can only arise from his desire to solve the
riddle of the peacock. Wait and hear what he has to say.”

“And then?” asked Fuller, nodding approval. “Then we shall be able to take
another step along this dark path. You mean to travel it, I presume?” asked
Dick, looking up searchingly. “Of course I do,” replied the young man
emphatically. “If those jewels are in existence they belong to Marie, and I want
to find them before Sorley does, lest he should make off with them.”

“Well,” said Latimer grimly, “I daresay he would bolt, both because he loves
jewels and moreover—if guilty—must dread risking his neck.”

“Guilty? If he possesses the peacock he must be guilty.”

“It would appear so, Alan, since only by means of the peacock can the gems be
discovered. If he finds them we can assume very reasonably that he killed
Baldwin Grison, but as yet so far as we know the jewels are still hidden.” Dick
thought for a few moments, then ventured on advice. “You have a week or so
before taking your Christmas holiday. Why not visit Miss Grison at her boarding-
house? You know where it is.”

“Yes. She gave me her card. But she won’t speak out, Dicky. Had she been certain
of Sorley’s criminality she would have denounced him then and there to gratify
her hatred.”

“She may only have a suspicion of his guilt, or perhaps her wish is father to
her thought. But it seems to me that by her allusion to the bicycle, and to
cryptograms, she wished to arouse your mistrust of the man.”

“Still she cannot be aware that Marie told me about the peacock riddle?”

Latimer ruffled his hair in perplexity. “Oh, hang it, what is the use of
speculating!” he cried crossly, and rising to stretch his big limbs. “Before we
can arrive at any conclusion we must sound Miss Grison as to what she knows, or
what she does not know.”

“At all events she detests Sorley and, so far as I can see, will do her best to
hang him.”

“Perhaps. But it is your task to prevent such a miscarriage. Go and see her,
Alan, and then tell me what you learn.”

“Very good. I shall write a note and invite myself to dinner.”

“Why to dinner?”

“I wish to see what kind of lodgers Miss Grison has, and to hear their opinion
of their landlady. Much can be learned in this way. But tell me, Dick, what you
have discovered.”

“Very little. Moon is still hunting for the assassin and is still at his wit’s
end how to strike the true trail. The only thing of interest that I have learned
is about Jotty.”

“The street-arab whom Grison befriended?”

“Yes. He’s a clever little animal, and in better surroundings might improve into
something useful. Miss Grison intends to give him his chance, and is taking him
into her service as a page-boy: She’ll have enough to do to teach him civilized
habits,” concluded Dick cynically. “Why is she acting so philanthropically?”

“Out of regard for the memory of her brother, as she told Inspector Moon.”

“Well,” murmured Fuller thoughtfully, “that is reasonable enough since she
appears to have had a strong regard for her brother. Perhaps he commended Jotty
to her care.”

“It’s not improbable. The poor wretch may have wished to give the boy a chance,
and if so, it shows that there were decent feelings in him. But if you visit
this boarding-house I wish you to keep an eye on Jotty.”

“Why?” Alan looked up quickly. “Because I believe the boy knows much more than
he has hitherto admitted.”

“Oh,” said Fuller, after a pause, “so it is probable that Miss Grison’s interest
in the lad is not wholly philanthropic. You fancy that she may desire to keep
him under her own eye lest he should say too much.”

Latimer shrugged his shoulders. “I can’t say that I quite took that view, Alan,
as Miss Grison may really be acting kindly out of regard for her brother’s
wishes. All the same I believe that Jotty knows things about the murder which he
is keeping quiet, and it will be just as well to watch him more or less
closely.”

“But on what grounds——?”

“On no grounds whatever. It’s just an idea I have, and may be all rubbish.”

Fuller nodded. “On the other hand it may be useful not to reject your idea,
Dick. I shall watch and question Jotty if I get the chance.”

“Be careful, Alan. He is a sharp lad.”

“I’ll see that he does not get the better of me. Dick, isn’t it strange how
suspicious one gets of everything when on a man-hunt?”

“Yes. But it’s natural enough. On a trail one always observes small signs to
indicate the direction, and so everything around becomes of value in the way of
evidence. However, you know what you have to do?”

“Yes. And you?”

“I shall keep in touch with Rotherhithe and Mother Slaig’s boarding-house and
Moon. Whatever I learn you shall know. Good luck, Alan, to your hunting.”

“Ditto to yours, Dicky, and now clear out and let me get to work.”

Latimer tramped to the door and vanished with a friendly growl. CHAPTER VI THE
BOARDING-HOUSE

The establishment of Miss Louisa Grison was by no means aristocratic as her
house was not situated in a fashionable quarter of London and she charged
extremely moderate prices for board and lodging. Petty clerks and shop-girls
formed the greater portion of those who dwelt under her humble roof, but
occasionally people in better circumstances came to the place. Young men
learning to become lawyers, students in various metropolitan colleges, actresses
in or out of employment, reduced ladies, who had just sufficient income to keep
body and soul together, literary aspirants and adventurers down in their luck,
were to be found at 2Z Thimble Square, Bloomsbury. It was a fluctuating
population which came and went throughout the year. Sometimes the house would be
full, at other times it was almost empty but in one way and another Miss Grison
always contrived to satisfy her landlord and pay her taxes. She never complained
of her lot, or lamented her poverty, but met everything, good, bad and
indifferent, in her hard way, without emotion of any kind. Misery seemed to have
turned her into stone. The house was a large corner one, with a vast drawing-
room, a vast dining-room, and a sitting-room for Miss Grison on the ground
floor, together with a kitchen of no great size and servants’ cubicles in the
basement. All the rest of the building was given over to bedrooms, so small and
so many that they resembled the cells of bees. And the lodgers were exactly like
bees, for the greater part of them swarmed out to their various employments in
the early morning and swarmed back again late in the evening. Sometimes they had
spare money for amusements, but more often they had not, and seemed to be
incessantly working like the bees aforesaid to gather honey for other people.
Yet as they were generally young and hopeful and healthy, on the whole they
contrived to enjoy themselves in a meagre way, their standard of pleasure not
being very high. Sometimes the men made love to the women, or the girls flirted
with the boys, and so long as these philanderings were innocent Miss Grison did
not forbid them. But in her hard way, she was rigorously moral, and any boarder,
male or female, who overstepped the line was banished from this penny Eden.
However, the inmates of the Establishment—as Miss Grison called it—behaved very
well and she rarely had cause for complaint. They were all a trifle afraid of
the landlady with her hard blue eyes and stiff manners, and she ruled them after
the manner of a schoolmistress, making allowance for youthful spirits yet
keeping them in strict order. Some objected to these limitations, but the food
was so good and the bedrooms so comfortable and the price of both so moderate
that they put up with the lesser evil to enjoy the greater good. In her reply to
Fuller, bidding him come to dinner on a certain day, Miss Grison mentioned that
evening dress was unnecessary, an observation which seemed rather superfluous to
the young man when he learned the quality of the establishment. He entered the
large drawing-room to find the men in their workaday clothes, although the
ladies had certainly done their best to smarten themselves for the evening
function. Miss Grison, for instance, received him in a worn black silk dress,
trimmed sparsely with jet and set off with cheap lace. She still looked as
though carved out of wood and still stared with an unwinking gaze which somewhat
confused the young man. There is nothing so embarrassing to even a tired man or
woman of the world as a steady look, and although Alan was conscious of being a
perfectly proper person he yet winced at Miss Grison’s hard greeting. The
visitor’s good looks and unusually smart clothes—although he simply wore a suit
of blue serge—caused quite a sensation. Girls in cheap blouses, cheap skirts and
still cheaper jewellery giggled and blushed when he was presented to them, and
elderly dames with careworn faces and of antiquated garb, straightened
themselves with conscious dignity. There was something pathetic in their
assumption of society manners, considering the dire poverty to which they were
condemned. The men—they were an ordinary lot as regards looks and brains—were
disposed to be hostile as they thought that the female portion of the
establishment paid too much attention to the newcomer. But they were civil on
the whole and the dull quarter of an hour before the seven o’clock meal was
announced by a seedy man-servant—termed grandiloquently the butler—passed off
fairly well. Fuller was quiet and observant, and chatted mostly to his hostess,
although for politeness’ sake he had to address a few observations on safe
topics to ladies, old and young and middle-aged. The dinner was plentiful and
nourishing, if not particularly dainty, consisting of Scotch broth, Irish stew,
rice pudding with tinned apricots and American cheese. The boarders provided
their own liquid refreshments, as Miss Grison merely supplied water in large
glass jugs. Consequently there were many private bottles on the table, ranging
as to their contents from pale ale to whisky: some of the better-off lodgers
even indulging in cheap claret. Miss Grison drank water, and her guest, since
she offered him nothing better, followed suit. “I would banish alcohol of every
description from my table,” she whispered, with stern apology, “for it was my
dear dead brother’s curse. But if I kept a temperance hotel I doubt if the
business would pay so well.”

“Then it does pay,” remarked Fuller with a side-glance at her worn dress. “Oh,
yes,” she responded indifferently, “I manage to keep my head above water and to
save a trifle against rainy days, and old age. Ah, there is our usual late
comer, Mr. Bakche. Now his soup will have to be brought back, which puts the
servants out. These Orientals have no idea of time, Mr. Fuller.”

Alan politely agreed and glanced carelessly at the newcomer, only to give a more
earnest look later on, for Mr. Bakche was decidedly out of place amongst that
shabby assemblage. He was perfectly arrayed in a well-cut evening dress, with
pearl studs and patent leather shoes. Tall and slim, he was yet sinewy in his
looks and possessed an admirable figure, which the close-fitting clothes set off
to great advantage. He had clearly-cut features, a dark complexion, as became an
Eastern, and wore a small black mustache, well twisted over very red lips and
very white teeth. On the whole he was a handsome fellow and his air was somewhat
haughty and reserved. As Alan observed, he ate only plain boiled rice, uncooked
fruit, and drank water; just as if he were an anchorite. The looks of the man
and the abstinence of the man aroused Fuller’s curiosity, and he thought that he
would like to talk to Mr. Bakche as well as to Miss Grison. Meanwhile he asked
for information. “He is an Indian prince, so he says,” replied Miss Grison in a
whisper. “I understand that his full name is Mr. Morad-Bakche, which he told me
means, in his own language, ‘Desire accomplished.’ He is only in England for a
few months on some mission connected with the recovery of his family property
lost during the Mutiny, and my house was recommended to him by a former boarder
who went out to Ceylon.”

“He has a striking personality,” said Fuller when this information was given,
and then asked his hostess about Jotty. “Mr. Latimer told me that you intended
to give the boy a chance in life, Miss Grison. It is very good of you to do so.”

She shrugged her sloping shoulders. “Oh, I don’t know,” she answered, sinking
her metallic voice. “I want a page-boy to open and shut the door, so as to save
the servants’ legs. Jotty does as well as another and since my poor Baldwin took
an interest in him, of course I feel that it is my duty, to do what I can. I
have had him washed and dressed and fed and have given him the more Christian
name of Alonzo. The boarders do not know his real name, if indeed it can be
called one, and they are not aware that he is the boy who appeared at the
inquest.”

“They know, I presume, that it was your brother who was murdered?”

“Oh yes, the name appeared in the newspapers, and I had to give evidence at the
inquest, so there was no keeping the relationship quiet. But I beg of you, Mr.
Fuller, to call Jotty by his new name of Alonzo, as I don’t want it generally
known that I am helping my poor brother’s protégé. As the head of the
Establishment,” Miss Grison drew up her spare form proudly, “I do not like
scandal to be connected with my name.”

“But, my dear lady, your behavior calls for nothing but praise.”

“Human nature is more prone to blame than praise,” answered the hostess
bitterly, and gave the signal to the ladies for departure. “We will leave you to
smoke with the other gentlemen, Mr. Fuller, and afterwards you can come and talk
to me in the drawing-room. Alonzo you will probably see when he opens the door
for your departure,” and with a stiff bow she left the room at the head of the
shabbily-dressed females, who thus followed the customs of the west end. For a
time Alan was left severely alone, and smoked his cigarette in silence, since
the men seemed to be too shy to venture on conversation, and had many matters to
discuss among themselves. But after a time Mr. Bakche left his seat and moved to
a chair at the young man’s elbow, offering, as he sat down, his cigarette-case,
which was well filled. “You will find these particularly good,” said Mr. Bakche
in a deep and mellow voice, which accorded well with his grave dignity. “I
received them from a friend of mine in Constantinople.”

“Thank you,” answered the solicitor readily, and anxious to respond to this
politeness, “you are very kind.”

“The kindness is on your part, Mr. Fuller.”

“You know my name, Mr. Bakche?”

“And you know mine, I observe. We have made mutual inquiries about one another,
no doubt. Mr. Potter informed me about you; and Miss Grison, I presume, gave
information about me.”

“Yes,” assented Fuller easily. “She tells me that you are an Indian prince!”

Bakche laughed in a silent manner. “She places me too high, Mr. Fuller, I assure
you,” he responded quietly. “I come of a princely family, but I am not of
princely rank. You can look upon me as a plain Mahometan gentleman of Tartar
descent.”

“Of Tartar descent,” echoed Fuller, who found his companion interesting. “Yes.
Did Miss Grison tell you my full name?”

“Morad-Bakche! Indeed she did and gave me its meaning.”

“‘Desire-accomplished,’” said the other, with half a sigh, “although I fear that
my desire will never be accomplished. However, that is by the way. I wonder, Mr.
Fuller, if you have read the ‘History of the Moguls.’”

“I regret to say that I have not.”

“Well, it is rather an unusual book for anyone to read unless he is a student.
But you will find mentioned therein my ancestor, after whom I am called. He was
also Morad-Bakche, the youngest son of Shah Jahan, who was descended from Timur
the Tartar. My family were rich and famous when the Mogul emperors ruled at
Delhi, but everything belonging to us was swept away in the Mutiny, as you
English call it.”

“I can quite understand that you give it a different name,” said Alan
sympathetically. “You naturally desired to be free.”

“Naturally, but injudiciously, Mr. Fuller. If the British Raj ended, my unhappy
country would become the cockpit of contending hosts. We are too divided in
India to rule ourselves, and the great powers would interfere, so that we should
only exchange King Stork for Queen Log, or the reverse, as I forget the exact
details of the fable. But what I mean is that England is a better ruler of our
country than Germany or Russia would be.”

“Your sentiments are very liberal, Mr. Bakche.”

“I have read history,” replied the other. “Believe me, Mr. Fuller, that if
people only read history more carefully so many mistakes would not be made in
this world. The past life of nations is more or less only what the future will
be, making reasonable allowance for development.”

Bakche talked on this strain for some time, and displayed a great knowledge of
history, and betrayed a shrewd observation of men and manners, so that Alan
found the conversation very enjoyable. Later on, his companion became particular
after general, and gave a few hints about his family. “At the time of the Mutiny
my grandfather was the Rajah of Kam, which was a little-known state which is in
the Madras presidency. That is, it was.”

“Was,” repeated Fuller, surprised, “a state cannot vanish out of existence, Mr.
Bakche, since it is land and——”

“Oh, the land is still there and the villages and towns. But the name has been
changed and my family have been turned out. I am the sole member left alive, Mr.
Fuller. But I have no ambition to get back our former royalty.”

“But I understood from Miss Grison that you had come to England on a mission of
that sort.”

“The good lady is wrong again. I want no forfeited title, but I do want certain
property.”

“I see. So you are applying to the Government?”

“No,” said Mr. Bakche unexpectedly and somewhat grimly, “my property cannot be
recovered by the Government. I have to search for it myself. It is——” Here he
checked himself. “But I don’t see why I should trouble you with all this dry
talk.”

“It is most interesting, I assure you,” Alan assured him quite truthfully. “Then
we must resume it on another occasion,” said Bakche, rising. “I have to keep an
appointment. Perhaps I shall see you again here.”

“Possibly, but if I do not come again here is my card.” Fuller passed along his
business address. “I shall be glad to see you at any time.”

Bakche glanced at the card ponderingly. “You are a solicitor, I see. It is
probable that I may want a solicitor.”

“I am at your service.”

“You may not be when you know what I want,” said the Indian dryly, and with a
sudden gleam in his dark eyes. “However I am glad that I have met you, and
perhaps I may call and see you. Good-night, sir,” and with a grave bow Morad-
Bakche took his departure from the room which was now almost empty. Fuller drew
a deep breath as he rose to go to the drawing-room. His late companion being of
an unusual kind had interested him not a little, but in spite of his suave
manners and gentle voice there was something dangerous about him, betrayed for
the moment by that sudden gleam of ferocity. Alan felt as though he had been
playing with a tiger who had been careful for reasons of its own not to scratch,
but would do so when the appointed time came for it to reveal its true nature.
He half hoped that Bakche would not come to the Chancery Lane office, and
regretted momentarily that he had given his card. But reflection made him laugh
at his nervous dread, since he was well able to look after himself and need have
no fear of Bakche or of any man. Besides he wanted to get all the business he
could so as to make money and marry Miss Inderwick, therefore it would have been
foolish to lose sight of a prospective client. Wondering what the precise nature
of the man’s business could be, Alan sauntered towards the drawing-room, when in
the passage he came across a diminutive urchin with a peaked face, arrayed as a
page. “Oh,” said Mr. Fuller, stopping, “so you are Alonzo.”

“Yessir,” gasped the boy in one breath, and looked at the tall gentleman from
under light eye-lashes out of light eyes. “You have another name?”

“Nosir,” said the urchin again in a breath and lying glibly, “never was called
anything but Alanzer.”

Fuller nodded, seeing that the lad was loyal to Miss Grison, and did not try to
wean him from his allegiance. All the same he wished to ask him questions about
the dead man, but did not think the present moment a judicious one to do so.
“Some day you must ask your mistress to let you come and see me at my office,”
he remarked carelessly, and passed on. In a moment Jotty was tugging his coat-
tail. “What jer want ter arsk?”

“I shall tell you when the time comes. Do you know Mr. Latimer?”

Jotty nodded with bright inquisitive eyes. “Him with the big coat like the bear
them Italyains chivy about?”

“Yes. You see that I know something about you, Alonzo. But you are quite right
to say what you have said. I don’t want you to call and see me unless Miss
Grison permits you to.”

“Yer a lawr gent?” inquired Jotty, pondering. “In Chancery Lane.” Fuller gave
his number. “If you do happen to be passing, Mr. Alonzo, just look in and earn a
few shillings.”

“I’m game for that anyhow, if it doesn’t hurt her.” He jerked his head towards
the room where Miss Grison was supposed to be. Fuller turned on him sharply.
“Why should anything hurt her?” he inquired. Jotty did not answer directly.
“She’s bin good t’ me, and he wos good—him es died, sir. I don’t want no hurt t’
come t’ her anyhow,” and with a flash of his light eyes the boy sprang down the
stairs leading to the kitchen, while Alan entered the drawing-room wondering
what the observation meant. It seemed impossible that any harm could come to
Miss Grison out of any inquiry into the death of her brother. Again it struck
Fuller that the woman’s reason for helping Jotty might not be entirely
philanthropic. However he had no time to dwell on this particular point, but
looked about for Miss Grison, who was not to be seen. An elderly lady with a
simper informed him that the landlady was in her own room, and pointed out the
direction, so Fuller knocked at the door softly. The sharp voice of Miss Grison
invited him to enter, and he found himself in a small apartment crowded with
furniture. “Oh, here you are, Mr. Fuller,” said his hostess, rising from a low
chair in which she was seated by the fire. “I thought you would find me here. I
cannot stay listening to the twaddle they talk in the drawing-room, having much
more serious things with which to occupy my thoughts.”

“Very natural, after your great loss,” replied Alan, accepting the chair she
pushed towards him. “I suppose you wonder why I have come to see you.”

“No,” said Miss Grison in her sharp, blunt way. “You mentioned at Belstone that
you would help me, and I am glad to have your assistance.”

“I can give it, if you will be frank with me.”

“What do you wish to know?” Miss Grison took a fan from the mantelpiece as she
spoke, and used it to screen her sallow cheeks from the fire. “Have you any idea
who murdered your brother?”

“If I had, do you think I should invoke your assistance,” she asked, evading his
question dexterously. “Two heads are better than one,” countered the solicitor.
“True enough, and yet one head may be able to bring the beast who killed Baldwin
to the scaffold.”

“Then I must apologise for troubling you,” said Alan, rising. “As I told you at
Belstone my only desire to unravel this case is one of curiosity, and if you
think that I am meddlesome I——”

“No no! no! You are really very good. Sit down and I shall answer what questions
you like. After all I should be glad to have the advice of a solicitor for
nothing, unless you expect six and eightpence, Mr. Fuller.”

“I expect nothing but straight replies to my questions, Miss Grison. “Go on,
then. As to the one you have already asked, I can say nothing at present. I
don’t know for certain who murdered Baldwin.”

“But you have some suspicion?”

“Nothing that has tangible proof.”

Apparently she would not put her feeling against Sorley into words, so Alan
tried another tack. “Would you mind telling me your history?”

“And that of Baldwin, I suppose. Why should I?”

“Because I may then learn if there is anything in his life or in your life which
would cause his death.”

“I fear you will be disappointed, Mr. Fuller,” she replied coldly, “for my
history and that of Baldwin is uneventful on the whole. We are the children of a
doctor who practised at Canterbury, and who made money. Mr. Sorley was a patient
of my father’s and took a fancy to Baldwin when he came home from Oxford, where
he was being educated. When Baldwin finished his college career and got his
degree——”

“Oh,” Alan was plainly surprised, “he got his degree, did he?”

“Baldwin was an extremely clever man,” cried Miss Grison impetuously, and her
hands trembled with emotion. “I don’t see why you should ask me such a question
in such a manner. He took his degree with great credit, and came home to go in
for the law. But Mr. Sorley, who was writing his book on precious stones,
offered to make Baldwin his secretary, and the offer was accepted because my
father had died and did not leave us so well off as was expected. My brother
went to The Monastery and I stayed with my mother for some years, until she
died. Then I paid a visit to Belstone, and Mrs. Inderwick, who was then alive,
asked me to remain as her companion. I was with her for years, until she died,
and managed to gather enough money out of my salary to start this boarding-
house. Shortly after Marie was born her mother died, and she was left to the
grandmother of Henny and Jenny to look after.”

“Why not to you?”

“Because I had already left the place,” said Miss Grison, flushing, and with
sparkling eyes. “Sorley quarrelled with my brother as he quarrelled with
everyone, and it ended in Baldwin being dismissed.”

“But what reason was given for his dismissal?”

Miss Grison hesitated and looked at the fire. “I suppose I may as well talk
candidly to you, since so much rests on your knowing the exact truth.”

“It will be just as well,” said Fuller positively. “Well then,” she drew a deep
breath, “although I loved Baldwin and although he was clever and amiable, he had
a weak character. He learned to smoke opium and he took more drink than was good
for him. In a moment of madness, and because Mr. Sorley paid him so badly, he
forged his employer’s name to a small check for five pounds. Mr. Sorley found
this out and threatened to prosecute him, especially as Baldwin—I don’t deny
it—made himself objectionable to Mrs. Inderwick. However, Mr. Sorley did not
prosecute——”

“Why not? He doesn’t seem to me to be a merciful man.”

“He’s a cruel, hard beast,” said Miss Grison fiercely, “and you heard my opinion
of him at Belstone. It was no fault of his that Baldwin was not put in jail. I
managed to stop that.”

“In what way?”

“I sha’n’t tell you; there is no need to tell you, Mr. Fuller. It is enough for
you to know that I had the power to stop the prosecution and did so. I had just
started this boarding-house, and I brought Baldwin here. But what with his drink
and his smoking opium, he behaved so badly that, dearly as I loved him, I had to
find another home for him, or be ruined. I got him a home with a doctor, who
looked after him, but Baldwin ran away and went to Rotherhithe, for there he was
near the opium dens. I begged and implored him to lead a better life. He always
promised, and he always failed to keep his promise. All I could do was to allow
him so much a week, which I did, as I stated in my evidence at the inquest. He
lived a degraded life at Mother Slaig’s house, which is down a slum, and there
he met with his death at the hands of——” She stopped short. “At the hands of the
man whom you suspect,” finished Alan bluntly. “I never said it was a man,”
retorted Miss Grison abruptly. “It couldn’t possibly be a woman.”

“I never said that either.”

“Then what do you say?”

“Nothing, because I am certain of nothing. You have heard the story you wish to
hear, so make what use you can of it.”

“I shall do so if you will answer one other question?”

“What is it?” She screened her face. “Did your brother steal the peacock of
jewels from The Monastery?”

The screen dropped. “Marie has been telling you about that.”

“She told me the legend of the jewels and the cryptogram. But of course as she
was a child when the peacock was stolen, she could say nothing about the theft.
But as Inspector Moon learned from Jotty, your brother had the peacock in his
possession. “That is true.”

“And he was murdered on account of the peacock?”

“I believe so.” She clasped and unclasped her hands feverishly, not giving him
time to ask another question. “Do you know who stole it from Belstone?”

“Your brother, since he had it at Mother Slaig’s.”

“No. He stole it from me and I stole it from Mr. Sorley.”

“You stole it!” Fuller started up in amazement. “Why did you?”

“Oh, I had good reason to, I assure you. I am not ashamed of my theft. That
peacock ruined Baldwin, and that peacock shall ruin——”

“Mr. Sorley,” broke in Fuller, keeping his eyes on her face. “No! no.” She flung
up her hands. “It will ruin me! me! me!”

CHAPTER VII YULETIDE

Alan could make nothing of Miss Grison’s final remark, for after stating—and in
a somewhat hysterical fashion—that the peacock would ruin her, she asked him to
leave. In vain he asked for a more detailed explanation. Recovering her usual
wooden manner, she declined to speak further, and Fuller returned to the rooms
at Barkers Inn to report the result of his visit to Dick. It was unsatisfactory,
and Alan said as much. “I don’t agree with you,” remarked Latimer, after some
reflection. “You have seen Jotty ticketed as Alonzo—what a name; and have
learned the early history of this unfortunate brother and sister. Finally, you
have met with Mr. Morad-Bakche.”

“He’s got nothing to do with the matter anyhow.”

“My dear son, George Inderwick obtained this treasure you are looking for, in
India. Simon Ferrier manufactured the peacock in India, and Mr. Morad-Bakche
comes from India.”

“So do half a hundred other students of the kind,” retorted Fuller. “You are too
suspicious, Dick, and see a bird in every bush.”

“Perhaps I am. But I should like to know why Mr. Bakche was so friendly with you
and told you so much about himself. Orientals are generally reserved and don’t
talk all over the shop. Mr. Bakche told you that he had come to look after some
family property. How do we know but what it consists of those gems which the
Begum of Kam gave to George Inderwick?”

“Over one hundred years ago, remember. How could Bakche know about them?”

“Orientals have long memories. However, I admit that I may be unduly suspicious,
as you observe, Alan. All the same I should like to know what Mr. Bakche is
doing in Miss Grison’s house and why he was so friendly to you even to the
extent of hinting that you might be his solicitor.”

“Well then, if he does consult me he will have to state his reason. And if that
has to do with the Begum’s gems, I shall know where I am. Your imagination is
too vivid, Dick.”

“It is not imagination but the use of a sixth sense, which gives me impressions
contrary to facts,” insisted Mr. Latimer, “and if——”

“Oh, I know you believe in all that occult rubbish,” interrupted Fuller in a
rather rude way, “but I am too matter-of-fact to be superstitious.”

“Too obstinate to change your opinion, you mean,” replied Dick equably, “Well,
well, my son, we will not quarrel over the matter. Time will show if I am right.
In the meantime what do you make of Miss Grison’s statement that the peacock
would ruin her?”

“I can make nothing of it, and ask you for an explanation.”

“Humph! The riddle is hard to guess. The only thing I can say is that she dreads
lest Sorley should learn of her theft. If so, he would prosecute her and so she
would be ruined.”

“She is not afraid of Sorley.”

“Not now, because he doesn’t know—so far as we can see—that she stole the
peacock.”

“But why did she tell me that? If I told Sorley——”

“Miss Grison knows that you are on her side, so to speak, and will not say
anything to Sorley, who is dead against your marriage with Miss Inderwick.”

Alan ruffled his hair, as was his custom when perplexed. “I can make nothing of
the matter,” he cried, greatly exasperated. “What’s to be done?”

“See Sorley at Christmas when you go down to Belstone,” advised Dick in a calm
way, “and hear why he wants to discuss cryptograms with you. In that way you may
get on the trail of the lost peacock.”

“But if Sorley has it, Miss Grison need not be afraid that he will ruin her,
Dicky. If she is a thief, Sorley is a murderer.”

“We can’t be sure of that.”

“If he has the peacock we can be sure.”

“First catch your hare,” observed Latimer sententiously. “In other words, my
son, wait and learn if Sorley has the thing. It’s no use theorizing, Alan; we
can do nothing until we learn more. Bakche probably will call and see you, so we
shall learn what he has to do with the matter.”

“He has nothing to do with it, I am sure,” said Fuller vehemently. “My sixth
sense tells me otherwise,” observed Dick dryly. “Hang your sixth sense.”

“By all means. But to continue: Jotty will come and see you, sooner or later, I
feel convinced, and then you can learn.” Dick paused. “Learn what?”

“My sixth sense doesn’t tell me. Wait and see.”

“Oh, hang it, Dick, what nonsense you talk! It’s all moonshine.”

“I grant that,” returned Latimer serenely. “Until we can gather more facts it is
certainly all moonshine. But since seeing you last I have learned a fact which
may startle you. Moon told me when I went to look him up yesterday, Baldwin
Grison was a murderer.”

“What’s that you say?” cried Alan, as startled as Dick could wish. “Ah, I
thought I’d raise your hair. Yes, my son. A couple of months ago, in the opium
den kept by Chin-Chow—or rather in the lane outside it—a well-dressed man was
found dead. He had been knocked on the head with some blunt instrument of the
bludgeon kind. From letters and cards found in his pockets it was discovered
that he was an independent gentleman who lived in the west end, and who went
down to Rotherhithe to indulge in the black smoke. His watch and studs and purse
had been taken, so it was supposed that he had been robbed by some scoundrel
haunting those very shady parts. Inspector Moon could find nothing, however, to
point out the criminal, but has always been on the hunt. The other day he came
across the dead man’s watch, which had been pawned by Mother Slaig. She said
that Grison had given it to her instead of money for his rent and had stated
that it was his own watch. Moon thinks that Mother Slaig is quite innocent of
guilty knowledge and that Grison, being hard up, must have knocked down and
robbed the dead man when they both left Chin-Chow’s opium den. Search was made
in Grison’s room afterwards, and under a loose board the studs of the victim
were discovered. So there is no doubt that Grison murdered the man for money and
was afterwards murdered by his unknown assassin for the sake of the peacock. It
is just as well that Grison is dead, as he certainly would have been arrested
and hanged for his crime.”

“Destiny gave him a dose of his own gruel,” said Alan thoughtfully. “He must
have been a bad lot, in spite of his sister’s eulogies.”

“Well,” remarked Dick with a shrug, “Sorley’s opinion of the man seems to be
more correct than Miss Grison’s. Poor soul, I wonder what she will say when she
learns that her brother acted in this way?”

“She will be thankful that his violent death prevented his appearance on the
scaffold,” said Alan dryly. “What is Moon doing about the matter?”

“Nothing. What can he do? Grison is dead, and the relatives of the victim, being
of good position and well off, are not anxious to have a fuss made over the
matter, since the murder took place in such a locality. You can well understand
that, Alan, my son.”

“Yes, I can well understand that. Well, Grison had to pay very speedily for his
wickedness. You don’t think that a relative of the dead man killed him out of
revenge.”

“Oh, dear me, no! The relatives are most respectable, and never went near
Rotherhithe. The first murder has nothing to do with the second, I assure you,
Alan. However, there is nothing more to be said about Grison’s crime and we must
content ourselves in learning who killed him.”

“After what you have told me, I don’t think he is worth it.”

“Worth revenging, do you mean? Well, perhaps not; but the peacock is worth the
search for the assassin, since finding him means finding the means to discover
the treasure.”

“And you suspect Sorley, with Bakche as a factor in the case?”

“I suspect no one at present, and only my sixth sense, which is not invariably
to be relied upon, thinks that your Indian friend may be mixed up with the
matter. Go down to Belstone, Alan, and see if Sorley still talks about
cryptograms. If he does, and submits one for your solution, it will probably
have to do with the peacock, if Miss Inderwick’s tale of her ancestor and
Ferrier is to be believed.”

“Of course it is to be believed,” said Alan tartly; “however, I shall make quite
sure by seeing Ferrier’s manuscript for myself.”

“It will be just as well,” said Latimer, ending the conversation, and so matters
were settled for the end of the year. Shortly afterwards Dick went to Paris to
keep his Christmas as a kind of heathen festival with an artist friend in the
Latin Quarter, while Alan packed his kit to journey to Belstone and enjoy the
simpler pleasures of a British Yuletide. The great season of the Church was on
this occasion quite one of the old style, such as would have delighted the heart
of Dickens. That is, it had plenty of snow and holly and mistletoe peace-on-
earth, good-will-to-men and such like traditional things which had to do with
the Holy Birth. The undulating hills around Belstone were clothed in spotless
white, and the ancient trees in the park of the Inderwicks stood up gaunt and
bare and black amidst the chilly waste. Coals and blankets, food and drink were
bestowed on the villagers by the gentry around, who suddenly seemed to recollect
that Belstone existed, so that the poor had what Americans call “the time of
their lives.” Mr. Fuller also behaved philanthropically, although he was by no
means rich, and the sole person who did not act in the traditionally charitable
manner was Mr. Randolph Sorley. He said bluntly that he had enough to do to look
after himself, and gave his blessing instead of more substantial gifts. As to
Marie, she never had a single penny, which she could call her own, and lamented
that poverty, and Sorley’s niggardly ways as her guardian, prevented her from
obeying the kind dictates of her heart. “But when I am of age and have my
money,” she informed Alan after church on Christmas Day, “I shall make everyone
happy.”

“You have made me happy anyhow,” replied Fuller, enjoying the stolen moment
which they had obtained by evading Sorley, “so nothing else matters.”

“You greedy boy,” laughed Marie, patting his cheek, “you are not the only person
in the world I have to consider. My uncle is my uncle.”

“And your uncle is your guardian,” said Fuller grimly. “I wish he were not, my
dearest, for the course of our true love will never run smooth so long as he has
a say in the matter. I don’t like him.”

“You must like him to-night when he comes to dinner at the vicarage,” said Marie
with alarm. “If you aren’t agreeable, Alan, he will be so unpleasant.”

“I am always agreeable, in my father’s house,” said Alan stiffly, and then he
kissed away her fears. “There, dear, don’t worry; I am a most diplomatic person,
I assure you.”

Marie agreed, for everything that Alan did was right in her eyes, and afterwards
ran away across the snow to join her uncle, who was looking for her. Alan
returned to the vicarage to find his mother much exercised in her mind over the
Christmas dinner, and had to console her as usual. Every year Mrs. Fuller
doubted the success of the meal, and every year it proved to be all that could
be desired. Alan reminded her of this. “My dear mother, you have never had a
failure yet. To-night we shall have a very jolly meal.”

“I hope so,” sighed the vicar’s wife, “but I confess that I am not quite at rest
in my mind about the pudding.”

“And there may be something wrong with the mince pies?”

“It’s very likely there will be, since the oven doesn’t heat properly.”

“And the roast beef will not be up to the mark?”

“Now, Alan, you are making fun of me. You don’t know what it is to be a
housewife, my dear.”

“I don’t, mother. Dick and I are very rough and ready in our domestic
arrangements. You have asked Sorley to dinner as usual, I hear from Marie.”

“Yes, dear,” replied Mrs. Fuller complacently, “your father knows he is not well
off, and wishes to show him this yearly attention. Besides, since you love
Marie, who is a sweet girl, you should be pleased.”

“I am pleased,” said her son gravely, “although Sorley doesn’t approve of my
attentions to his niece.”

Mrs. Fuller bristled. “What better match does the man want for the girl,” she
demanded, all her maternal feathers on end; “you have good blood in your veins,
Alan, and good prospects, besides being very handsome and——”

“I’m a paragon, mother, there’s no doubt of that. All the same, Sorley, as you
observed when I was last here, wants a title and wealth for Marie.”

“He’ll never find either in this back-water of life’s river,” retorted Mrs.
Fuller rather crossly, “and since Marie loves you there is no more to be said,
in my opinion.”

“There’s a good deal more to be said in Sorley’s,” said Alan dryly. “He should
remember his own love romance, dear, and be more sympathetic with Marie’s desire
to become your wife.”

“I never knew that Sorley had a love romance, mother. I thought he was wrapped
up body and soul in his book on precious stones.”

“Oh, he has always been writing that, Alan,” said Mrs. Fuller, with a shrug to
hint that she did not think much of the man’s literary abilities, “but he was
courting Miss Marchmont over twenty years ago—that was shortly after Squire
Inderwick’s death, and before Marie was born. You know, dear, her father died
almost immediately after the sweet girl’s birth, and appointed Mr. Sorley to be
her guardian. He settled at The Monastery with his sister. Mr. Inderwick and
that miserable man Grison were with them for a time. His sister also stayed as
Mrs. Inderwick’s companion, but when her brother was dismissed, she went to
London and started that boarding-house in Thimble Square, Bloomsbury. Marie was
brought up by old Granny Trent, who was the housekeeper. When she grew too old,
and Marie went to school at Brighton, her granddaughters, Jane and Henrietta,
came to look after the house, and do the active work, although Granny
superintends still, I believe. Then Marie returned from school, and——”

“Mother, mother, you are repeating history,” interrupted Alan, vexed by this
prolix narrative. “I know all this. What about Sorley’s love affair?”

“He loved Miss Marchmont, and she died.”

“Was she one of the Marchmonts of Augar Place, near Lewes?”

“Yes; the only daughter and heiress. Mr. Sorley would have got a lot of money
and property had he married her. But she died, and the Manor, along with the
income, passed to distant cousins after the death of old Mr. Marchmont some ten
years ago.”

“What did Miss Marchmont die of?”

“A chill contracted by getting wet in the hunting-field, dear. Mr. Sorley was
very fond of her, and greatly lamented her death.”

“Or the loss of her money,” said the solicitor doubtfully. “No, dear. He really
and truly loved her. I sometimes think, Alan, that you are not quite fair to Mr.
Sorley. He has had his troubles.”

“I don’t like him personally,” said Fuller roundly, “there is an insincere air
about him.”

“I am not particularly fond of him myself,” confessed Mrs. Fuller in an
apologetic way, “but he is always agreeable to me. And, although he has lived
here for quite five and twenty years, if not more, there has never been a word
said against his character save that he is not generous. And his poverty excuses
that, Alan. So try and be agreeable to him this evening, dear,” finished Mrs.
Fuller, making the same request as Marie had done. “Of course I shall be
agreeable. I wish to be very friendly with him.”

“That is natural, dear, since you desire to gain his consent to your marriage
with Marie. But, dear me, I am quite forgetting the dinner,” and Mrs. Fuller
hastened to the kitchen with her mind full of the pudding, the mince pies, and
the roast beef. Alan’s reason for being friendly with Sorley was not entirely
due to the cause mentioned by his mother, although he was anxious enough to gain
the man’s consent to his wooing. But he felt confident that—unless for a
purpose—Sorley would never give that same consent, since he did not think that
the vicar’s son was a good match for his pretty and long-descended niece. In a
year when Marie was of age, the consent of the guardian could be dispensed with;
so that particular matter did not trouble the young man overmuch. He really
desired to establish friendly relations with Sorley in order to learn if he had
the peacock of jewels in his possession, as it was Marie’s property and should
be given to her. Since the uncle loved jewels, and probably knew that the
peacock, besides being covered with precious stones, could indicate the
whereabouts of a box filled with similar gems, it was probable that he would
seek to keep the ornament to himself. Always provided that he possessed it, of
which Alan was not quite sure. But if he did have it, then the supposition would
be that he had murdered Baldwin Grison for its possession. It was difficult for
Fuller to see what he would say in the way of excuse for owning it. “But, of
course,” thought the young man, when he went to dress for dinner, and threshed
out the matter in his own mind, “if he has it he won’t make any fuss about my
seeing it, should he desire me to solve the riddle since at present there has
been no public mention that Grison was murdered for its sake. “But if he does
show it to me——” here he paused, greatly perplexed, as he foresaw how difficult
it would be to know how to act. Even if the possession of the Peacock proved
Sorley to be a criminal, for the sake of Marie, Alan was unwilling to bring him
to justice. And yet, on the face of it, the man should pay for his crime. “It’s
confoundedly difficult to know what to do,” was Fuller’s natural conclusion. The
Christmas dinner was a great success in spite of the doubts expressed by the
hostess, and the five people who sat down to enjoy it, passed a very agreeable
hour. Marie had a healthy appetite, and had no reluctance in satisfying it on
fare, which was much more dainty than that prepared by Henny Trent, who acted as
cook at The Monastery. The girl in a simple white dress and without any
ornaments, save a childish necklace of red coral, looked very pretty, and
behaved very charmingly. By the end of the quiet evening Alan was more in love
with her than ever, and wondered if the earth contained a more delightful little
lady. Sorley also made himself most agreeable, being soothed by the excellent
dinner, and showed no disposition to frown on the young couple. As to Mrs.
Fuller, now that the dinner was off her mind, she beamed on everyone, including
her rosy-faced sturdy little husband, who overflowed with Christian charity,
which did not need the season of Yuletide to enhance its ready generosity. Mr.
Sorley was perfectly dressed as usual, and looked wonderfully well in his young-
old way, which was so deceptive. He was well-informed too, and talked on this
subject and that, in a most exhaustive manner, arguing with the vicar and
agreeing with Mrs. Fuller, and giving an occasional word to Alan. Afterwards in
the quaint old drawing-room the conversation turned on the death of Grison,
although Mr. Fuller did his best to taboo the subject, on the plea that it upset
his wife. “Mrs. Fuller always liked the poor man,” said the vicar finally. “He
was agreeable and clever, but woefully weak,” confessed the old lady. “If he had
only stayed here, he would never have met with such a death.”

“I would willingly have kept him at The Monastery,” explained Sorley in a frank
manner, “but he was rude to my sister, and, owing to his drunken habits, kept
the house in a constant state of turmoil. I had to dismiss him although I gave
him every chance to reform. And you heard, Alan,” he added, turning to the young
man, who was listening intently, “how his sister blamed me for his death.
“What’s that?” asked the vicar sharply. “Not directly,” said the guest calmly.
“She could scarcely do that seeing I was fifty miles away at The Monastery when
Grison was murdered in Rotherhithe. But his sister said that my dismissal made
him take more than ever to opium smoking, and that drove him to the slum where
he met with this tragic end.”

“Pooh! pooh! Louisa Grison talks rubbish,” said Mr. Fuller sturdily. “She was
always crazy about Baldwin, although he certainly had his good points, foolish
as he was. Don’t let us talk any more about the matter. It upsets my wife, and
is not a topic for Christmas Day.”

“Oh, I don’t mind hearing of his death,” protested Mrs. Fuller, “I am only too
anxious to know who killed him, poor creature.”

“I shouldn’t be surprised to hear that he killed himself,” remarked Sorley in an
abrupt way. “Oh, that’s impossible,” said Alan quickly; “the medical evidence
proved conclusively that he was murdered, stabbed to the heart.”

“Well, my boy, a man can stab himself to the heart, can’t he?”

“Yes,” replied the young man dryly, “but he could scarcely hide the instrument
with which he killed himself after his death, and that, as we know, is missing.”

“What sort of instrument was it, Alan?” asked Mrs. Fuller. “A stiletto, it is
thought, mother.”

“That sounds as though an Italian had a hand in the crime,” remarked the vicar;
“they generally use the stiletto!”

“I can’t say who killed him, or of what nationality the assassin was, father,
since nothing can be learned likely to cast light on the subject. But I am sure
of one thing from what Latimer has told me, which is that Grison did not stab
himself. He had no reason to.”

“Mad people never do have any reason,” remarked Mr. Sorley pointedly. “But
Grison was not mad.”

“Indeed I have every reason to believe that he was,” insisted the other; “the
father was an eccentric doctor who practised in Canterbury, and the mother of
Louisa and Baldwin died in a lunatic asylum.”

Mrs. Fuller nodded sadly. “Yes, Louisa told me as much,” she said, “and for that
reason I excused her oddities and those of her brother. They certainly had queer
ways, hadn’t they, John?”

“Yes! yes! yes! But no worse than other people,” rejoined Fuller senior, in his
vigorous fashion, “but Louisa certainly manages her boarding-house in a sane
enough manner, as I found when I stayed there.”

“Did you stay there, father?” asked Alan. “Twice or thrice when I went to town
years and years ago, although I have not stayed there lately. I wanted to help
Louisa, poor soul. But now she is doing so well that there is no need for me to
assist her by becoming a few days’ boarder. Baldwin may have been a trifle mad,”
added the vicar, addressing Sorley, “since he sank so low and displayed such
weakness; but his sister is sane enough, I am sure of that.”

“She did not speak very sanely the other day when attacking me, as Alan heard,”
said Mr. Sorley significantly. “We were quietly having afternoon tea when Miss
Grison rose and suddenly denounced me. She is mad.”

“I don’t agree with you,” retorted the vicar. “What do you say, Alan?”

The young man shook his head with an embarrassed laugh. “I have not seen
sufficient of Miss Grison to pronounce an opinion,” he said, and turned to
Marie, who was feeling rather neglected. “This is rather dull for you.”

“And the subject, as I said before, is not a suitable one for Christmas Day,”
observed Mr. Fuller. “Marie, my dear, give us some music.”

The girl obeyed with alacrity, as she had been yawning during the dreary talk of
her elders. In a very musicianly style she played two or three classical pieces,
and then with Alan sang some of Mendelssohn’s duets, in which their voices
blended far more agreeably than Mr. Sorley approved of. The late conversation
seemed to have upset his nerves, for he wandered in a restless manner round the
room and betrayed a disposition to come between the young people, in strange
contrast to his earlier demeanor. When Mrs. Fuller was playing an old-fashioned
selection of melodies, called “Irish Diamonds,” which her husband loved, Sorley
came to sit beside Alan and engage him in quiet conversation, while Marie and
the vicar remained near the piano, listening to the variations on Garry Owen.
“You must come over to The Monastery during this week, Alan,” said Mr. Sorley in
a discreet whisper. “I should like to show you my collection of jewels, which
will belong to Marie after I am gone.”

“Oh, you will live for a long time yet,” said Alan affably. “I doubt it. I have
my enemies like other men, and you need not be surprised if I meet with Grison’s
fate, poor wretch.”

“Whatever do you mean?” demanded the other sharply. “I mean that in the midst of
life we are in death,” rejoined Sorley tartly, and in a somewhat enigmatic
manner, “What else should I mean?”

“I’m hanged if I know,” said Alan frankly, and spoke from his heart. He really
could not understand the man’s strange reference to a violent end. “Well! well!
well!” remarked his companion with affected cheerfulness, “it may be all
imagination on my part. But when one has such a collection of gems as I have in
the house, it is not improbable that an attempt may be made to get them on the
part of some thief.”

“Have you any idea that such an attempt will be made?”

“Oh dear no. I speak generally. For my collection is valuable, Alan, although
perhaps not worth so much money as those gems which were given to George
Inderwick over one hundred years ago, by the Begum of Kam. Why do you start?” he
asked in surprise. “Marie told me that she related the story of the jewels to
you.”

“Yes—that is—she did say something about the matter,” stammered Alan, “only I
did not know that Kam was the place where George Inderwick went on behalf of the
H.E.I.C. to serve as a native drill sergeant.”

“Oh yes. The Rajah of Kam’s town and state in the Madras Presidency. You can see
the manuscript to-morrow when you come over. Hush, the music is stopping; don’t
say anything more. Let us keep these matters to ourselves,” and having thus
forced Fuller, as it were, to be his confidant, Sorley strolled across the room
to congratulate Mrs. Fuller on her still brilliant touch. Alan remained where he
was on the sofa, staring at the carpet, and wondering what revelations would be
forthcoming when he visited The Monastery the next day, for he was determined to
pay the promised visit as soon as he could, lest Sorley should change his mind.
But what startled him most was to learn that the jewels had belonged to the
Begum of Kam. And that was the very place mentioned by Morad-Bakche as the
former territory of his family. “Dick was right,” thought Alan. “Bakche _is_
after the gems of the peacock.”

CHAPTER VIII AN EXPLANATION

For the next two or three days Alan enjoyed the rural peace of the country and
gave his parents a great deal of his society. Anxious as he was to follow up the
hint of Sorley with reference to the story of George Inderwick’s treasure, he
did not display undue eagerness, since it was better to behave in a casual
manner, lest suspicion should be aroused. The young man did not wish Sorley to
think that he knew too much about the matter, or had been making any inquiries,
for it was not improbable that he might take alarm and decline all assistance.
Fuller felt certain that there was a skeleton in Sorley’s cupboard, safely
locked up, but, “as suspicion ever haunts the guilty mind,” it would require a
very slight circumstance to render the worthy gentleman uneasy. Therefore Alan
pretended to an indifference which he did not feel, and kept away from The
Monastery, until his diplomacy was rewarded about the middle of the week, by the
appearance of Marie with a request that he should come over. “This afternoon
Uncle Ran wants to see you,” said the girl pouting, for she was not pleased that
Alan had kept clear of her company. “He has gone this morning to Lewes on his
motor bicycle, and will be back at two o’clock to meet you.”

“In that case,” said Fuller promptly, and glancing at his watch, “since it is
just eleven, we can have three hours all to ourselves.”

“I don’t think you want to pass all that time alone with me.”

“Oh Marie, when you know how I love you.”

“You don’t; you really and truly don’t;” said Miss Inderwick, who was looking
provokingly pretty in a fur jacket and a fur toque; “if you loved me you
wouldn’t waste your time as you do.”

“Waste my time. Why not, when I am on a holiday?”

“I don’t mean that sort of waste, you horrid boy. But you know that you are
always in town and I am always here, so when you are down for a few days, you
should be with me constantly.”

“I should very much like to, my dearest spitfire, but would it be wise when your
uncle discourages my attentions to you so pointedly?”

“Oh!” Marie raised her eyebrows and pouted again. “If you are afraid of Uncle
Ran there is no more to be said.”

“There is a great deal more to be said,” retorted Alan, tucking her arm under
his own, “and we can say it on our way to The Monastery. When the cat’s away at
Lewes, we two dear little mice can play at Belstone. Marie, darling, don’t make
faces; we must be sensible.”

“I _am_ sensible; you have said dozens of times that I am the most sensible girl
in the whole world.”

“So you are. All the same we must be diplomatic in case your uncle——”

“Bother my uncle.”

“I think you do, my dear,” said Alan dryly, “and just now you are bothering me
by being cross about nothing. Marie, if you don’t smile in your usual angelic
way, I shall kiss you here in the open road, Smile, smile!”

“I sha’n’t,” said Marie, trying to pucker her small face into a black frown, and
then had to burst out laughing. “You silly boy!” She hugged his arm. “I spoil
you, don’t I?”

“You do, you do, like the angel you are.”

“There’s a want of originality about you, Alan. You are always calling me an
angel. What else am I?”

“A goddess, a gazelle, a Queen of the May——”

“In December; how ridiculous!” and Miss Inderwick laughed gayly, her good temper
quite restored. The lovers walked slowly through the village and up to the gates
of the neglected park, chatting much in the same strain. Of course they talked
great nonsense, as lovers do when together, and the language of Cupid can
scarcely be described as instructive. Alan was a sensible and clever young man,
and Marie was by no means wanting in mother-wit, and yet their conversation was
so characteristic of their several states of mind, which had entirely to do with
the wooing of man and maid, that a common-sense person past the turtle-dove
stage would have doubted their sanity. But then love is a madness which attacks
the young at certain seasons, and custom has so sanctified the lunacy, that
those so crazed are not locked up. And mercifully when the glamor of love is on
them, they prefer to keep to themselves, so that indifferent people are not
compelled to witness their eccentricities. Only when they were walking up the
avenue, did the conversation become more reasonable. “Why does Uncle Ran wish to
see you, Alan?” asked Marie curiously. “He intends to show me his collection of
gems,” replied Fuller, who did not think it prudent to be too open, until he
knew more of Sorley’s mind. He did not like the man, and suspected him of having
committed a crime; but until he was certain of his guilt, he wished to keep
silence. After all, the girl by his side was the daughter of the man’s sister,
and her guardian, so it was best to say as little as possible. “Oh, he has got
lovely jewels,” said Marie, readily accepting the explanation, which certainly
was a true one. “I wish he would let me wear some of them. It seems so stupid to
lock up a lot of beautiful diamonds and emeralds and sapphires. When they come
to me—as Uncle Ran says they will—I sha’n’t leave them in their care, but wear
them.”

“You will look like the Queen of Sheba, my darling.”

“Or like a rainbow,” replied Miss Inderwick smartly, “all sorts of colors
sparkling like—like—like frosts,” she finished, taking her illustration from the
glittering rime on the bare trees. It was a perfect December day, and the blue
sky arched over a white expanse of snow untrodden save for the track up the
avenue along which the young couple had travelled. By this time they had come in
sight of the great mansion, and paused to admire its irregular beauty. Its red
roofs were hidden under billowy masses of dazzling whiteness, as they caught the
sunlight, and the darkly-green garment of ivy which clothed it was flecked
everywhere with snow wreaths. Icicles glittered like jewels hanging from eaves,
porch, windows, and from the carved stonework, discernible through the greenery,
so that the place looked like a fairy palace. Although Marie, its fortunate
possessor, saw the house daily, she could not forbear an exclamation of delight.
“Isn’t it lovely, dearest?”

“As lovely as you are, my darling,” assented Alan readily. “I think you might
show me over the house, Marie, as I have never explored it completely.”

“I daresay. Uncle Ran won’t let anyone go over it, although no end of artists
wish to come to it. He wouldn’t even let anyone paint a picture of the outside.
I don’t know why?”

“Nor do I,” murmured Fuller, half to himself, “No more than I know why he was
not angry with Miss Grison for going over it uninvited.”

“That was strange,” replied Miss Inderwick thoughtfully, “but I think he is a
little afraid of Miss Grison, dear. He thinks she is mad.”

“What do you think?”

“I haven’t seen enough of her to say. But Mrs. Millington, her greatest friend,
told me that she thought Miss Grison’s mind was giving way.”

“It is certainly not apparent in her management of her boarding-house.”

“Well, she may be mad on one point and sane on many,” remarked Marie
pertinently, “she seems to hate Uncle Ran dreadfully.”

“That is because she ascribes her brother’s downfall to him. But don’t let us
talk about such dreary matters, darling, but look over the house, and arrange
how we will restore it when we are married.”

“And when we find the treasure,” cried Marie, skipping lightly up the steps to
the open door. “Come in, Alan. We must make the best of our time before Uncle
Ran returns.”

“He won’t be back until two o’clock.”

“So he says, but I don’t trust him. He’s always trying to catch me in mischief,
as if I ever had a chance of doing any. I shouldn’t be surprised if he pounced
down on us unawares.”

“In that case I can excuse myself by saying that I have come, at his request to
see him,” said Alan promptly. “Lead the way, Marie, and let us look over the
place from top to bottom.”

Marie assented very readily to be her lover’s cicerone, and for the next hour
they were passing along corridors, peeping into rooms, ascending and descending
stairs, and searching for secret chambers and outlets. All the time Marie
talked, telling Alan tales about this room and that, which she had heard from
Granny Trent, who had lived nearly the whole of her long life in the old
building. But what struck Alan most was the absence of furniture. Room after
room had been stripped bare, and the vast house gave him the impression of being
an empty shell. Yet according to the old woman, whom they looked in to see in
her particular den, the place had been crammed with treasures no later than
twenty years ago when Mrs. Inderwick had died. “But he’s sold them all,” mourned
Granny, who did not seem to have much love for her master—“tables and chairs and
wardrobes and pictures, and all manner of things, my dears. It’s a shame I say,
for they belong to you, Miss Marie, and he ain’t got no right to get rid of your
property.”

Granny was a lively, active woman, small and shrivelled in her looks, with
twinkling black eyes and an expressive face. Age did not seem to have dulled her
faculties, for she spoke clearly and to the point, and what is more, intimated
that she could see through a brick wall, meaning in plain English—how easy it
was to guess that the young couple were in love. “And a very good thing too,”
said granny nodding sagely; “you being handsome and good and kind-hearted, Mr.
Alan, or you wouldn’t be the son of them dears at the vicarage else. Just you
marry my lamb, sir, as soon as you can get your pa to read the service, if it’s
only to look after him.”

“Mr. Sorley?” inquired Fuller pointedly. “You mean him?”

“And who else should I mean, Mr. Alan, if not him? A poor feckless thing I call
him, selling up my lamb’s goods to waste money on bits of stones. Ah, if the
luck of the Inderwicks wasn’t missing there’d be plenty of them.”

“You mean the peacock?”

“I do. That blessed bird that means good fortune to my lamb here, sir. Them
Grisons took it I’ll swear when they went away over twenty years ago, and took
the luck along with them, for never will it come back—it’s the luck of the
family I’m talking of, Mr. Alan—until the peacock is under this roof again.”

“What sort of luck will it bring, Granny?” asked Marie eagerly. “Marriage to you
and Mr. Alan here, a fortune when the riddle is read as it surely will be, and
an outgoing for him, as is your uncle and don’t look after you, my lamb, as he
should, drat him.”

“Oh, he means well, Granny.”

“If he means well, why don’t he do well,” retorted the old woman. “Never mind,
the luck will come your way, my lamb, when you least expect it. Now go down to
the dining-room, my dears, and I’ll tell Jenny to set out something for you to
eat. You can’t live on love,” chuckled Granny, her eyes twinkling. The two
laughed and took her advice, even to the extent of making a very excellent
luncheon, plain as the fare was. When the meal ended, Marie carried off Fuller
to the library and lighted his cigarette with her own fair hands. When he was
comfortably puffing clouds of bluish smoke, Miss Inderwick, perched on the arm
of his chair, ruffled his hair and told him that he was the most disagreeable
person in the wide world. This led to amiable contradiction, finally to kissing
and it was when they were in the middle of these philanderings, that they raised
their eyes to see Mr. Sorley standing at the door. He was stiff with
indignation, and looked more like a haughty unbending aristocrat than ever. “So
this is the way in which you deceive me, Marie?” he said with an angry look.
“How dare you?”

“Why not,” said Fuller, as the girl sprang away from his chair in alarm. “I love
Marie and she loves me. You must have seen that ages ago, Mr. Sorley.”

“I did, sir, but the position does not meet with my approval.”

“Who cares,” cried his niece defiantly. “I shan’t marry anyone but Alan.”

“You shall marry the man I select,” said Sorley sternly, “unless——”

“Unless what?” demanded Fuller coolly. He was perfectly sure that Marie would
remain true to him, and therefore had no fear of her uncle. “I shall explain
that when we are alone.”

“Explain now,” said Miss Inderwick swiftly, “I have a right to know why you
object to Alan becoming my husband.”

“He has no money and no position.”

“I shall make money and make a position,” said Alan calmly, “all in good time,
Mr. Sorley, all in good time.”

“He will be Lord Chancellor one day,” said Marie boldly. “You will have gray
hairs by that time,” snapped her uncle, “and until he is Lord Chancellor, you
certainly shan’t marry him.”

“I shall. So there.”

“You shall not.”

“Unless,” observed Alan smoothly, “you said unless, Mr. Sorley.”

“Unless you find the Begum’s treasure.”

“Oh, Uncle Ran,” cried Marie in dismay, “when you know that the peacock is lost,
and without that no one can solve the riddle, or even know exactly what it is.”

“The peacock is——” began Sorley, and stopped short. “Never mind. Go away, my
dear, and let me talk to Alan.”

He spoke so mildly that Marie began to think better of the position. He did not
appear to be so dead against her marriage with Fuller, as his earlier words had
intimated. Alan, on his part, guessed from the abrupt stopping of the sentence,
that Sorley knew something about the missing peacock which he did not wish to
reveal while Marie was in the room. Acting on this hint he took the bull by the
horns. “Look here, sir,” he said, rising to address his host more impressively,
“I know that the discovery of this treasure is connected with some cryptogram
which has to do with the lost peacock. I accept your terms, as, having
experience in secret writings, I am sure that I can solve the mystery which has
baffled everyone for so long. If I do, and the treasure is found, will you—as
you say—consent to Marie becoming my wife.”

“Yes,” said Sorley tersely and decisively, “but of course part of the treasure
must be given to me.”

“Oh, I shall buy your consent to my marriage with half of it,” said Marie in a
rather contemptuous tone. Fuller secretly did not endorse this too generous
offer, and determined that if he did solve the riddle, to hand over the gems to
Miss Inderwick. But it was not diplomatic at the moment to insist upon this too
much, particularly as Sorley had practically agreed to the marriage. “The first
thing to do is to find the jewels,” said Alan easily, “and then things can be
better arranged, Mr. Sorley.”

“Very well,” said the old gentleman, taking it for granted that Alan as well as
his niece agreed to the terms, extortionate as they were, “we understand one
another. Marie, you can go away.”

“But I want to stop and hear everything,” she exclaimed rebelliously. “The time
is not ripe for you to hear everything. As yet I know very little, and wish to
consult Alan about arriving at the truth. He can tell you all you wish to know
later.”

“Go, dear,” said Fuller in a low voice, and leading the girl to the door, “I can
act for us both.”

Marie pouted and tossed her pretty head. “You are horrid,” she murmured. “I do
want to know all about the peacock.”

“You shall know if anything is to be discovered about it.”

“Very well,” she said obediently, “but I think you’re horrid all the same.”

When she left the library and the door was closed, Sorley, who had removed his
overcoat and gloves and cap, sank into a chair with a sigh. He was evidently
tired out by his ride to Lewes and back again. Alan waited for him to open the
conversation, for having his suspicions of the man, particularly after his
hesitation when Marie had mentioned the peacock, it behooved him to be cautious.
Sorley thought for a few moments with his eyes on Fuller’s face then spoke
abruptly. “You know that Miss Grison hates me, and why?” he demanded shortly.
“Yes. She accuses you of having ruined her brother by having dismissed him
wrongfully.”

“Quite so, and acts like a mad woman in consequence. As if I could help the man
going to the bad. I gave him every chance, and instead of prosecuting him for
forging that check I let him go free. I don’t see that I could have behaved
better. That he sank to the Rotherhithe slum was purely his own fault.”

“Miss Grison doesn’t think so.”

“She can think what she chooses,” retorted Sorley, coolly. “I need take no
notice of the vagaries of a crazy creature such as she surely is.” He paused,
and looked oddly at his companion. “Do you know why I dismissed her brother,
Alan?”

“You have just explained; because of the forged check.”

“That is not the exact cause. I could have overlooked that, since I really was
sorry for the poor wretch, even though he was rude to my sister, and a decided
nuisance in this house with his drunken habits and use of opium. My real reason
for dismissing him was that Miss Grison—Louisa as we used to call her—stole the
peacock of jewels.”

“Oh,” said Fuller with a non-committal air, for he wished to know more about the
theft before stating that Miss Grison had confessed to it. And even when he knew
all he was not sure if he would be thus frank. “Yes! she knew how I valued it,
both because of its workmanship and the gems set in its golden body, and because
it is the clue to a large treasure which was hidden—you know the story—by Simon
Ferrier. I told her that if she did not return it I would dismiss her brother on
account of the forged check. She refused and I did dismiss him, so she really
has only herself to thank for Baldwin’s downfall, although, like a woman, she
blames me in the silly way she does.”

“But if she took the peacock why didn’t you have her arrested?”

“I should have done so, but that she declared her intention of destroying the
ornament should I act in such a way. She said that she would drop it into the
Thames—she was in London when I found out about her theft—or would melt it in
fire. As the peacock is the sole clue to the hiding-place of the Begum’s gems,
you may guess that with such a desperate woman I did not dare to act so
drastically as she deserved.”

“I suppose she gave the peacock to her brother,” suggested Alan artfully, hoping
that Sorley would commit himself by confessing the knowledge that Grison held
the ornament at the time of his death. But the man did nothing of the sort. “No,
she didn’t,” he said sharply, “so far as I know she had it in her possession all
these twenty years. I went again and again to see her and try for its recovery,
but insisting that I had ruined her brother, she refused to surrender it, and
lest she should destroy it, I could not use the force of the law. Now I am
certain that he had it all the time.”

“Why are you certain?” asked Fuller, who was impressed by the frank way in which
the man spoke. He certainly did not seem to have anything to conceal, and the
solicitor wondered whether he had misjudged him. Mr. Sorley waved his hand. “One
moment,” he said slowly, “you may wonder why I am telling you all this, and why
I have brought you into the matter? I do so, because you tell me that you are
good at solving riddles, and also since you are in love with Marie you are bound
to protect her interests. The jewels belong to her, so I am anxious that you
should help me to find them, so that Marie may get the benefit of their sale. As
she will have this house, her own income, and my collection of gems when I die,
I do not think I am asking too much in requesting a share of the treasure,
especially when that also will go to my niece after my death.”

Alan nodded, since all this was reasonable enough. “I know why you want me to
help,” he remarked, “but without the peacock we can do nothing.”

Mr. Sorley rose and went to an alcove of the room in which was set a tall carved
cupboard of black oak. Opening this he took out an object wrapped in chamois
leather, and returned to the writing-table to display to his visitor’s
astonished eyes, the missing peacock of jewels. “On that day when Miss Grison
called me names, and by her own confession wandered over the house uninvited,”
said the man quietly, “she must have brought this back. The day after she
departed I found the peacock in yonder cupboard, a place where I frequently go,
as Miss Grison knew. Why she should restore it in this stealthy way, or restore
it at all, I am not able to say. But I know that she took it from here twenty
years ago—from that cupboard in fact, where it was always kept—and her unasked-
for visit to this house must have been to replace it.”

Alan stared at the glittering bird which was—as Latimer had stated—the size of a
thrush, and greatly admired its beauty and perfection of workmanship. Ferrier
assuredly had learned a great deal in the East, for the shape and feathers of
the bird were truly wonderfully created in delicate lines. The eyes were rubies,
and there was a tuft of emeralds on the head but comparatively few stones
studded the body, as all were reserved for the glory of the tail. This was
outspread like a large fan—and in it were set sapphires, opals, rubies, and many
other precious stones which scintillated a glory like a rainbow, especially when
Sorley moved the gems to and fro in the thread of sunlight which pierced the
dusky atmosphere of the room. But what the young man thought, while he stared at
the lovely object, was whether Sorley was guilty or innocent. The presence of
the ornament which had been in the possession of the dead man hinted the former,
but Sorley’s explanation—feasible enough on the basis of Miss Grison’s abrupt
visit—seemed to declare the latter. As no man is considered guilty in English
law until his criminality is proved, and as Alan was a solicitor, he gave Sorley
the benefit of the doubt until such time as he had more trustworthy evidence to
go upon. Having taken up this attitude he treated the man as innocent, and asked
questions about the peacock. It was necessary to do so, if the riddle was to be
solved. “And, so far as I can see,” said Fuller, following his train of thought,
“there is no secret writing to be seen.”

“There is no secret writing,” said Sorley unexpectedly. “But I thought you
wished me to solve a cryptogram.”

“So I do; but a cryptogram can be other than in letters or figures.”

Fuller gazed at the peacock. “I can’t understand,” he said bewildered. “Well,
Alan,” rejoined Fuller with a shrug, “I can’t myself, and so have brought you
into the business on the assumption that two heads are better than one. I have
even opened the peacock to find its secret, but there is nothing inside. In my
opinion the secret is hidden in the tail.”

Alan was still puzzled. “In the tail?” he echoed. “In the jewels somehow,”
explained Mr. Sorley meditatively. “You see there are three semicircles of gems
on the tail, and between the second and the third appears a triangle of rubies.
Now if we can read the meaning of the three rows of precious stones, they may
explain the triangle, which is probably the key to the whole mystery.”

“I still can’t understand. Why should the mystery be concealed in the jewels of
the tail? They may be merely for decorative purposes.”

“I don’t think so. Of course the gems may imitate the peacock’s tail from
nature, but you never saw a bird with a triangle marked in this way.”

“No,” Alan nodded. “You are right so far. Have you any further ideas?”

“Not one. The riddle is to be read on the tail, and by means of the precious
stones, but how, I can’t say. What’s your opinion, Alan?”

“I have none,” said the young man hopelessly. “I shall have to turn over the
matter in my own mind, and then shall let you know.”

Mr. Sorley carefully locked up the peacock in the cupboard and shrugged his
shoulders. “I have thought over the problem for years, and I am no nearer the
solution than ever I was. But if you solve it, you shall marry my niece.”

“With such a prize in view I cannot fail,” said Fuller hopefully. All the same
the outlook regarding the reading of the riddle was very doubtful. CHAPTER IX
ANOTHER TRAIL

Alan Fuller left The Monastery in a very perplexed state of mind, as may be
guessed, for the revelations, made by Mr. Sorley startled him considerably. On
the hints given by Miss Grison he had suspected that the man knew something
about the Rotherhithe crime, and now the production of the golden peacock seemed
to endorse his suspicions. According to Jotty—who could not have manufactured
such a story—the deceased had been in possession of the ornament shortly before
his death. Miss Grison also had stated that the same had been given by her to
the man, although she admitted having stolen it from the great house. How then
did it pass into Mr. Sorley’s hands unless that gentleman had committed the
crime? Certainly his explanation, or rather his belief, that Miss Grison had
restored the peacock to the cupboard when she paid her unexpected visit appeared
to be feasible, but before Fuller could entirely believe this, it was necessary
that Sorley’s suggestion should be supported by the woman’s acknowledgment. And
it must be mentioned as a point in the man’s favor that he did not say
positively Miss Grison had brought back the ornament on that occasion, but only
gave out the idea to account for his own production of the article. “And,”
considered Alan, while plodding homeward, “Sorley is not aware that it is known
to Moon, Jotty, Dick, and me that the crime on the face of it was committed for
the sake of the peacock. Had he known as much, he might have accounted for its
coming into his possession by saying that Miss Grison had brought it back. But
since he is ignorant, I don’t see the use of his making such an excuse. He could
easily have said that the ornament had been mislaid, and that he had found it by
chance. Or indeed that Miss Grison had hidden the thing when she stole it in
some room, without troubling to remove it from the place. Sorley’s explanation
certainly seems to point to his complete innocence.”

But then again, as the young man considered later, Sorley had, within the last
few months, purchased a motor bicycle, and had told an obvious falsehood as to
the time of possession. On such a machine he could easily cover the fifty miles
between London and Belstone twice over in a night by hard riding, and thus might
have been in town about the time when the crime was committed without anyone
being the wiser. The ownership of the motor bicycle assuredly hinted that the
man had acted in this way, and if so, the chances were that he had murdered
Grison to recover the peacock. But in that case, he would hardly venture to show
his spoil so openly, knowing at what cost he had obtained it, even though
unaware that the police knew how the dead man had been slain on account of the
ornament. Certainly he desired Fuller’s assistance to unravel the problem
connected with the golden bird, but then—as Alan thought—he could have produced
a drawing of the article, saying that it had been made by himself or someone
else before Miss Grison had stolen the fetish of the Inderwicks. In a correct
picture drawn to scale and colored, there would be quite enough to go upon to
guess the riddle since the mystery of the peacock was evidently on the surface,
and not connected with the interior of the body. Sorley—as he stated, had opened
that to find nothing; and, wanting Fuller to help him, he assuredly must have
spoken the entire truth. While Alan was thus turning matters over in his
bewildered mind, he heard his name called, and looked round to see Marie flying
over the snowy ground. She caught up with him breathless and crimson with the
race, to seize his arm with a reproachful expression. “You _are_ mean,” she
cried, recovering her breath, “I’ve been waiting for you to come out and tell me
what Uncle Ran said to you. But you left without a word. I saw you passing down
the avenue, so followed as hard as I was able. Why do you act in this horrid,
secret way, you disagreeable thing?”

Fuller halted and looked at her doubtfully. Since he had imparted to the girl
that knowledge regarding Grison’s possession of the peacock, which he had
obtained from Inspector Moon, through Latimer, he certainly did not intend to
reveal that Sorley had displayed the ornament in the library. Should he do so,
Marie would at once, on what she knew, jump to the conclusion—and very
naturally—that her uncle was guilty. Being of an emotional nature she would
probably refuse to remain in the house with the man, in which case the truth
would have to be told. If it were, and Sorley learned that he was suspected, he
would probably place obstacles in the way of what really happened coming to
light. That is, assuming he really was the criminal, a fact of which Alan, after
thinking over things was by no means certain. And if the man was innocent, he
might make an outcry to clear himself, which would be equally prejudicial to the
solution of the problem. The more secretly all operations were conducted until
positive knowledge was forthcoming, the better it would be for the cause of
justice. And in this case, justice consisted in bringing the assassin of Baldwin
Grison to the gallows. “Oh,” said Alan lightly, and smiling at her inquiring
look, “your uncle only asked me to assist him to learn the riddle of the
peacock.”

“But how can that be done when the peacock is missing?”

“Your uncle had drawings of the bird,” replied the young man evasively. “I have
never seen them,” declared Marie rather crossly, “and as the peacock belongs to
me, I should see them.”

“I will show them to you in a few days,” answered Alan quickly, and made a
mental resolve to prepare the drawings himself. And indeed it was necessary that
he should have them, since he could not take the actual bird to town, and
required something tangible upon which to work. “Don’t you bother your uncle
about the matter, Marie, or he may withdraw his permission.”

“What permission?”

“That I should become engaged to you.”

“Oh Alan! oh Alan! oh Alan!” Marie could only gasp and blush. “That is,” said
Fuller correcting himself, “he does not directly sanction an official
engagement. But he says that if I solve the problem and find the jewels that he
will agree to our marriage. Meanwhile we can be together as often as we like.”

“That is as good as an engagement,” cried Marie, clapping her hands with
delight, “how good of Uncle Ran. I love him for this.”

“Don’t tell him so,” interposed Fuller hastily; “he’s an odd fish, and if he
knows that I have told you of his yielding so far, he may change his mind, my
dear.”

Marie nodded very wisely and solemnly. “I see; I quite understand. I shall say
nothing to Uncle Ran.”

“And ask no questions?”

“Not one. But you will tell me everything, won’t you?” she said, pressing up to
his side in a coaxing manner. “Of course,” Alan assured her, “whatever
discoveries I make regarding the riddle you shall know,” and the girl was
satisfied with this, not guessing that her lover was withholding information
connected with the more serious matter of the Rotherhithe murder. Having—as she
now presumed—full permission from Sorley to display her preference for Alan,
Marie boldly took his arm and walked through the village with him in a most open
manner. There was no chance now that her Uncle Ran would appear to make trouble,
and the girl declared as she clung to her lover that all their troubles were
over. “For of course, such a very clever boy such as you are, dear, will easily
solve the riddle.”

“I hope,” replied Fuller doubtfully, “but it is a hard riddle, Marie, and has
baffled everyone for over one hundred years.”

“Well,” said Miss Inderwick, arguing from a feminine standpoint, “if anyone had
guessed the riddle the jewels would have been sold by this time, and probably
the money would have been spent. So it is just as well that the truth has not
become known. You will guess the riddle, dear, clever boy that you are, and then
we shall become very, very rich, even though the half of what you find goes to
Uncle Ran.”

“Nothing shall go to Uncle Ran,” said Alan grimly, “because Uncle Ran has no
right to ask for a share—unless, of course, he solves the riddle. The peacock
and the treasure it can point out, Marie, both belong to you, so don’t go making
hasty promises to Mr. Sorley; and above all, dear—mark what I say, little
featherhead—don’t sign any paper if he asks you to.”

Marie nodded meditatively. “I understand what you mean, Alan. Of course Uncle
Ran is fond of jewels, and—well then I shall sign nothing without consulting
you, dear.”

“And don’t tell him that I advised this.”

“Of course not; he would take a dislike to you if I did. Don’t worry, Alan
darling, for I know exactly how to behave.”

“Behave just as you have done, Marie, and do not let Mr. Sorley believe that
anything new is afoot, or that there is any understanding between us.”

Miss Inderwick nodded vigorously to imply that she knew what she was about, and
the two walked on for some distance in silence, over the cobblestone pavement of
Belstone main street. Occasional smiles and looks of approval were cast at the
young couple by stray villagers, for Alan was a great favorite in his father’s
parish, and Marie was much more popular than her uncle. The inhabitants of
Belstone believed that if Marie became Mrs. Alan Fuller, that the old day of
plenty would return to The Monastery in which all would share, for they credited
the young man with brains which would enable him to make a great deal of money.
And if he did, seeing that he had a generous nature, it was just as well that he
should marry the last descendant of the ancient family who had ruled the
neighborhood. All public sympathy was on the side of the lovers. But to this
Marie and Alan paid no attention, since they were wrapped up in one another. The
girl felt quite happy in Fuller’s company and occasionally glanced at his
meditative face. Alan appeared to be thinking deeply, and apparently of
something not connected with herself. With the natural jealousy of a woman in
love, Marie could not permit this. “What are you thinking about, dear?” she
asked suspiciously. “About Morad-Bakche!”

Miss Inderwick opened her eyes on hearing this strange name. “Who is he?”

“He is an Indian gentleman, dear, whom I met at Miss Grison’s.”

“Why should you think about him just now when I am here, Alan?”

Fuller answered the first part of the question, and passed over the latter. “I
am wondering if he has anything to do with the peacock?”

This remark put an end to Marie’s egotism for the time being. “Why should he
have anything to do with it?” she demanded, astonished. “Well,” exclaimed the
young man quietly, “he has come to England, so he told me to search for some
mislaid family property. He is descended from that Rajah of Kam to whom George
Inderwick was sent by the H.E.I.C., my dear.”

Marie, having read and re-read the story of Ferrier grasped the connection at
once. “Then he knows about the peacock?” she cried in dismay. “That is what I
wish to learn. The Begum of Kam certainly gave the jewels we are looking for to
George Inderwick, from whom they descend to you, so as Morad-Bakche represents
the Kam family it is just possible that he has come to get back the gems if he
can.”

“He sha’n’t have them,” cried Marie, becoming flushed, “don’t let him take them,
Alan.”

Fuller laughed. “We have to find them first,” he remarked coolly. “When we have
them in our possession, then we can talk over Morad-Bakche’s claim.”

“He sha’n’t have them,” murmured Marie, much disturbed; “they are mine. And
after all, Alan, he may not have come for the Begum’s treasure.”

“He may, or he may not. I am unprepared to give an opinion. Only it is so
strange that he should live at Miss Grison’s boarding-house, considering that
she knows about the peacock, which is to reveal the whereabouts of what the man
probably desires. He didn’t get to that boarding-house by chance, I am certain.
And Dick fancies also—by his sixth sense, as he declares—that Morad-Bakche may
have designs on the treasure.”

“It is very strange,” said Miss Inderwick, pondering over this speech; “but how
could he find out that Miss Grison knew about the peacock?”

“We must learn. Have you ever seen an Indian gentleman in the village, my dear,
or haunting The Monastery?”

“No. If I had I should have told you, or would have written about it. We see so
few people about here, Alan—strangers that is—that anyone new is quickly
noticed.”

“Well, you may not have seen the man, but others may have. Who is the greatest
gossip in the village?”

“Oh, Alan, as if you didn’t know, when your mother is always talking about her.
It’s Mrs. Verwin, of course.”

“Ah yes! and she keeps The Red Fox, our one and only inn. Marie, she is the very
person to know, for besides being a gossip, she is the landlady of an inn to
which a stranger would go even if he only came for the day. Come and let us
interview Mrs. Verwin.”

Marie assented eagerly, for the search was like a game, and interested her
greatly. The pair simply retraced their steps and entered the green space in the
centre of Belstone, whence streets and lanes diverged, to behold the shabby old
inn facing them directly. It was an ancient Georgian building, ugly without, and
comfortable within, and had been more notable in the day of stage-coaches than
it was now. Its walls sadly needed a coat of paint, its roof required patching,
while both doors and windows would have been the better for a little attention.
In fact, there was a half-hearted look about The Red Fox, which showed that the
good lady who owned it had given up any idea of making her fortune, and was
content to exist for the day without troubling about the morrow. Sometimes
tourists stayed in the old place, more frequently artists, attracted by the
romantic beauties of The Monastery, for the shabby rooms were fairly
comfortable, and the cooking, within limits, was tolerably good. Mrs. Verwin’s
money mostly came from the pockets of laborers and yokels, who drank the very
inferior beer she supplied while they talked over the news of the countryside in
the smoky taproom with the sawdust floor, and cumbersome settles. In the evening
when the day’s work was ended, that taproom was the meeting-place of gossips
both male and female. And Mrs. Verwin was the greatest and most famous gossip of
the lot. How she gathered all the news she did was a mystery to everyone, since
she never left her abode, and worked from morning until night in order to keep
things going. But somehow she managed to hear all that was going on both near
and far, and used her long tongue freely in discussing what she heard. But that
the villagers were so somnolent Mrs. Verwin would many and many a time have been
in danger of a libel action, but reigning as a kind of rural queen, no one was
bold enough to bring her to book. If anyone had dared to venture on such a
course, he or she would have been excluded for ever from the taproom, and such
excommunication was not to be thought of by anyone who desired to see life. And
life was nowhere to be seen in Belstone save under the noisy roof of The Red
Fox. Mrs. Verwin herself welcomed the young couple the moment they set foot on
the threshold, as she had already espied them from the window. Being a very
stout woman, she could scarcely curtsey, but did her best, and invited her
visitors into the best parlor. It was a great honor that the vicar’s son and the
leading lady of the neighborhood—for that Marie was by virtue of descent if not
of money—and Mrs. Verwin was quite overwhelmed. As the inn was quite respectable
and well-conducted, Alan had no hesitation in taking Marie into the place,
although Mrs. Fuller would scarcely have been pleased, because she disliked the
landlady’s too ready tongue. But as that lively, black-eyed dame was a good
churchwoman and really kind-hearted, the vicar had a better opinion of her.
“Lor’ sir and miss,” cried Mrs. Verwin, energetically dusting a chair for Marie
to sit down on. “Who’d ha’ thought of you an’ Mr. Alan coming to see me,
friendly like. And very well you’re looking miss, though Mr. Alan there could do
with a little red in them pale cheeks of his. London smoke,” added Mrs. Verwin
in disgust, “and London food, and the milk that blue with watering as the sky is
gray to it. Now do have a cup of tea, sir, and——”

“No, thank you, Mrs. Verwin,” interrupted Alan quickly, for there was no chance
of getting a word in edgeways save by cutting short the good lady’s voluble
speech; “we have only come for five minutes. I want to ask you a question, if
you don’t mind.”

“Mind, Mr. Alan, and why should I mind, me being all straight and above the sky-
line, respectable as my parents were before me, as anyone who can read is able
to see on their tombstones in the right-hand corner of the churchyard looking
from the porch. Ask me what you like, sir, whether it means weddings or
funerals, or all that goes between in——”

“I simply wish to know if during the last year you have seen an Indian gentleman
in the village,” interrupted Fuller again, and with a look at Marie to show that
he desired to conduct the conversation himself. “Well, I never, and to think as
you didn’t hear of him, stopping here as he was in July last for one night, and
saying as the rice he ate was boiled in a way he admired.”

“Oh, so there was an Indian here?”

Mrs. Verwin nodded and placed her stout arms akimbo, with curiosity in her
snapping black eyes. “Quite the gentleman he was, though I hope there’s nothing
wrong with him, meaning courts and docks and lawyers, as is all the sons of Old
Nick, asking your pardon, Mr. Alan, for saying so, and yours, miss, for talking
about him, as shouldn’t be spoke of, nohow. Now if——”

“There’s nothing wrong about him,” said Alan, again stopping the flow of the
landlady’s conversation, or rather monologue; “but I happened to meet him at
Miss Grison’s boarding-house in London and——”

“Lor’ sir,” said Mrs. Verwin again, and taking her turn to interrupt, “may I
never speak another word, if she don’t owe me a good turn for having told him to
go there, where he’d be comfortable, though I never could see as Miss Grison,
and Louisa’s her name, was much of a housekeeper.”

“You told Mr. Bakche to go,” said Alan, remembering how the Indian had mentioned
to Miss Grison that someone in Ceylon had sent him to Thimble Square, “and why?”

“Batch. Yes sir, Batch was the name, and he was a very dark gentleman with eyes
like gimblets for boring a person through and through, haughty like and grand in
his manners, speaking English like a native in spite of his having been reared
in a country where they chatter French and German, the last a language I never
could abide, since a waiter of that sort went away when the house was full, and
I needed all the hands I’d got besides a few more. Oh, Mr. Batch was a gent sure
enough, though a son of Ham as we are told in the Bible, your pa, Mr. Alan,
having read about them children of Noah only three Sundays back, and then he——”

“Why did you send Mr. Bakche to Miss Grison’s?” asked Alan impatiently. “Well, I
didn’t in a way, sir, because it was the peacock as sent him to——”

“The peacock,” repeated Marie, and looked at Alan anxiously. “And well do you
know all about it, miss,” cried the voluble Mrs. Verwin, turning to face the
speaker, “it being the luck of your family as will never have no fortune till
it’s brought back again. And that Grison person as was your uncle’s clerk took
it over twenty years back, as I’m a living woman, which we all said when we
heard as he was gone and it was missing. I said and others said as Mr. Sorley
should have persecuted——”

“Did you tell all this to Mr. Bakche?” questioned Fuller quickly. “And why
shouldn’t I tell him, Mr. Alan?” inquired Mrs. Verwin, wiping her heated face
with a corner of her apron and bridling. “He asked if there wasn’t people called
Inderwick hereabouts, and I up and told him all about the family. Mr. Batch
says, as his father knew some of ’em in his own land, and said as how him he
met—not mentioning names, though it was an Inderwick as spoke, and perhaps,
miss, a cousin of your very own—well, him as he met mentioned a peacock. So I
tells Mr. Batch all about the story of the peacock being the luck of the family,
as all the countryside knows, and says as how we believed that Grison person had
took it. He said he’d like to ask him or her about the peacock—meaning them
Grisons—since he liked to hear them sort of stories, so I recommended her house
to him as being comfortable, and heaven forgive me for the lie, seeing Miss
Grison—and Louisa’s her name—ain’t got no more idea of cooking than a cat.”

“Oh, Mr. Bakche is very comfortable there,” said Alan easily, and very glad that
he had learned so much; “did Mr. Bakche say nothing about any treasure connected
with the peacock?”

“No,” cried Mrs. Verwin, her face alive with curiosity, “never a word did he
mention of a treasure, and where——”

Fuller saw that he had made a mistake in hinting a thing which was known only to
the Inderwicks to this gossip, and hastened to repair his error. “I am talking
of the peacock itself, which is a treasure,” he said quickly, “for it is made of
gold with precious stones——”

“I know, Mr. Alan, of course I know, sir, for didn’t I see it on my wedding-day
forty years ago, when your dear ma, miss, was alive and well along with your
late pa. My husband—poor Verwin as is dead and gone—said as he give me a wedding
treat, and he takes me to see The Monastery and asked Squire Inderwick to show
that blessed peacock. Oh,” Mrs. Verwin raised her fat hands and closed her eyes
in ecstasy, “well may you call it a treasure, Mr. Alan, for such glitter I never
did see. It was like the New Jerusalem for shine and——”

“Well that is the treasure I meant, Mrs. Verwin.”

“And you never spoke a truer word, Mr. Alan. But I hope sir, and you, miss, as I
didn’t do wrong in telling Mr. Batch—and a pleasant gentleman, though dark, he
was too—about the peacock, for it’s a story as we all know for years and years
and years. The luck of the Inderwicks! Why I heard my dear, dear pa as is dead
these fifty years tell all about the blessed idol, so I thought t’was no harm to
let Mr. Batch know as we’d something in Belstone he hadn’t got in his own
country, wherever that may be, though they do say as it’s across channel
somehow, and, if he——”

“You didn’t do wrong, Mrs. Verwin,” said Alan, striking in hastily, as he was
anxious to get away with Marie, “and I merely asked about Mr. Bakche because he
seemed to know something of Belstone.”

“He know. Now I ask you, sir, what can he know, staying but for one day, and
only giving an eyewink at The Monastery where he——”

“Oh, he went there, did he?” asked Fuller, turning back at the door. “Yes sir,
he did, saying he’d like to see such a lovely place about which I’d told him
such a queer story, for queer he said was the name for the luck of the peacock.
I think Mr. Batch was one of them gents who write and who ask others for things
as they can’t think of themselves, to——”

“Yes! Yes. Very probably, Mrs. Verwin. Thanks for answering my questions. I just
did so because I chanced to meet this gentleman at Miss Grison’s.”

Alan, and Marie, who had taken scarcely any part in the conversation, managed to
get outside the door, but were followed into the open by Mrs. Verwin, talking
all the time, and curtseying at intervals with difficulty as she said good-bye.
“For I do hope miss, and Mr. Alan, sir, as you’ll come in again, you not
forgetting, miss, as I was kitchen-maid at The Monastery before Verwin came
along to make me a happy bride; and so have the interest of the family at heart.
Sitting on a throne is where you should be, miss, with all under your pretty
feet as you will be when the peacock comes again to its own. And if that Grison
person is dead, murdered they say with much blood, and serve him right, I hope
as he’s sent back the peacock by post, if his sister—Louisa’s her name—ain’t got
it, which is just as likely as not, taking into—— Well good-day, sir—good-day,
miss—and bless you both for a nice-looking couple,” and Mrs. Verwin’s voice
arose to a perfect scream, as the distance between her and the visitors
increased. Not until they were on the verge of the green entering the lane which
led to the vicarage, did the sound of her adieux die away. “Marie,” said Alan
seriously, “if you ever talk so much, I shall divorce you at once. Poor Verwin.
He must have been glad to leave the world.”

“She always makes my head ache,” said Marie laughing. “And other people’s hearts
ache, owing to her gossip. However, she can’t make any mischief about what we
have been talking, since I explained exactly what I meant. So Bakche came down
here to ask after the peacock. That shows, as I thought long ago, that he is
after the Begum’s gems.”

“What will you do, Alan?” asked Marie anxiously. “Consult Dick, and tell him
what I have found out. Meanwhile Marie, you need not tell your uncle what we
have discovered.”

“Mrs. Verwin will probably do that,” said Marie darkly. Alan frowned. “We can’t
stop her tongue, worse luck,” he said with a sigh. CHAPTER X MR. SORLEY’S JEWELS

There was no doubt that the evidence of the village gossip would be valuable in
connection with the Rotherhithe crime, since it showed that another person
besides Mr. Sorley desired to obtain possession of the peacock of jewels. From
oral tradition or perhaps from some family paper, it was apparent that Morad-
Bakche had learned how his great great grandmother, or whatever the relationship
might be, had presented the gems to George Inderwick. Also the mere fact that he
had sought to learn the history of the fetish from Mrs. Verwin indicated that he
knew in some way, not yet to be explained, how the golden bird could reveal the
hiding-place of the treasure. That he had met with a cousin of Marie’s in India,
as he had told the landlady to account for his knowledge of the peacock, was
merely an excuse, as no relative of the Inderwick family was in India at the
present time. But of course only Bakche himself could explain how he had managed
to trace the fetish which had to do with the family treasure of his ancestors,
and he might do so when he called on Fuller, which the young man quite expected
him to do. “Mrs. Verwin,” thought Alan, as he retired to bed, “undoubtedly must
have told him that I was paying attentions to Marie, so that was why Bakche
behaved so amiably to me at the boarding-house. Dick was right after all, for
the man is seeking for the gems, and his politeness to me had something to do
with his hope of getting them. He is certain to look me up again, and if I
pretend to know nothing, he will have to speak out himself if he desires my
assistance. But then there’s Sorley——”

It was at this point that the young man’s senses became confused, and he fell
asleep. But next morning he determined to see Marie’s uncle, and ask if he had
seen Bakche in the village or haunting the grounds of The Monastery. Of course
the Indian was working secretly to regain what his people had lost; all the same
he might have gone boldly to Sorley, and sought to learn if that gentleman knew
details of the gems and their whereabouts. Alan remembered vaguely that Sorley
had talked of the possibility of his being murdered, and although the man
insisted that the chance had to do with his own private collection of jewels,
yet it was not improbable that Bakche had threatened him. The Indian was not the
man to stick at murder if he wished to gain his ends, and Alan wondered if he
had killed Baldwin Grison in order to get the peacock. But this supposition he
dismissed as ridiculous, since had Bakche secured the plunder he assuredly would
not have sent it to Mr. Sorley. However the sole chance of learning more or less
of the truth lay in questioning both men. Alan began with Sorley. Also he wished
to make a drawing of the peacock, so as to have before his eyes an exact
representation of the bird. Alan had a fair idea of art, and had at one time
amused himself with sketching, but not being particularly successful had
abandoned his hobby. However, he possessed sufficient technical skill to draw
the bird and color the drawing, so looked out his japanned tin paint-box and
took it in his pocket to The Monastery. This was a couple of days before he
returned to town, and at the beginning of the New Year. Luckily on this occasion
Marie had gone to see a schoolgirl friend at Brighton, so Fuller was glad that
she would not be at home to interrupt his interview with Mr. Sorley. She asked
too many questions, and having regard to her uncle’s very peculiar position,
Alan found a difficulty in answering them. Finally although he intended to show
her the sketch of the peacock, he did not desire her to see him preparing it,
since that would have given the lie to his assertion that Sorley already
possessed such a drawing, and moreover might reveal that the peacock itself had
returned to its old home. Therefore Fuller entered the big house feeling
thankful that Marie was out of the way for a few hours. Being very much in love
with her he had never expected to have such a feeling, and felt rather ashamed
of himself in consequence. But as he knew that he was acting straightforwardly
under particularly difficult circumstances he cheered up and saluted his host
with a smile. Henny Trent with a grin on her Dutch doll face had introduced him
into the library, and here Mr. Sorley was writing letters. “How are you, Alan,”
he said, rising to greet his visitor, and looking as spick and span as though he
had just stepped out of a bandbox. “I thought you had returned to your duties in
Chancery Lane?”

“I go back the day after to-morrow,” replied the solicitor, shaking hands, and
wondering if he was doing so with a man who ought to be in the New Bailey dock;
“I came to say good-bye and to ask you to allow me to make a drawing of the
peacock.”

“For what reason?” questioned Sorley suspiciously and uneasily. “My reason is
very apparent, sir. The riddle is to be read on the exterior of the peacock, you
say?”

“I think so, since I have opened the bird and found nothing inside it.”

“Then I must have a representation of the article before my eyes in order that I
may ponder over the signs.”

“What signs?”

“There you have me,” answered Fuller frankly; “so far as I can see there are no
signs of hieroglyphics or writing on the bird, so I don’t see that it can in any
way indicate the hiding-place of the Begum’s gems. But if I have a picture and
examine everything about it carefully, I may hit on the solution.”

“You don’t appear to be very certain of success,” said Mr. Sorley dryly, “yet
you told me that you were an adept at solving cryptograms.”

“If they consist of signs,” Alan explained cautiously, “and I can see no signs
on the peacock. Well sir, will you let me draw it?”

“Certainly, since I wish you to work with me in the endeavor to learn where
Ferrier concealed the treasure. But I don’t want you to show the drawing all
over the place, lest someone else should guess the secret.”

“Oh, I shall be careful,” said Fuller cheerfully, but making a mental
reservation that Dick Latimer should see the sketch. Satisfied with his promise,
Sorley took the golden peacock from the cupboard of black oak, and unwrapped the
chamois leather covering to display it on the table. But before doing so he
locked the library door without apologizing, an action which seemed highly
suspicious to his visitor. But if cautious with others who were in the house,
Sorley was certainly very frank in his dealings with Alan, and although the
young man could not bring himself to entirely trust his host, he admitted
privately that the man did not act in a way which suggested terror of the law,
And if he had murdered Grison to gain possession of the fetish, he assuredly
would be more cautious in showing it to a lawyer. But Fuller never could make up
his mind as to Sorley’s innocence or guilt, and wavered between belief and
disbelief in a way which annoyed himself. But there was nothing else to be done
until more evidence was forthcoming. The young man looked searchingly at the
beautiful specimen of goldsmith’s work which glittered on the table. Ferrier
knew his trade thoroughly, and probably had acquired some skill when in India.
The feathers, the form, and the head of the bird were perfectly done, and in a
minute, delicate manner, which showed how painstaking its creator had been. The
tiny emeralds on the head-tuft trembled on golden wires like the filaments of
flowers, and the ruby eyes were set admirably in their sockets. The breast shone
with few gems, but the body of the bird was of feathered gold, and the artist
seemed to have reserved the full blaze of beauty for the outspread tail. Yet
there were fewer jewels in this than might have been expected, for in the three
curved rows which followed the semicircular outline of the tail, Alan counted
only fifteen precious stones, namely: eight gems in the first row, four in the
second, and three in the third. Then between the second and third was the
triangle which contained fifteen minute rubies on each one of its three sides.
“Fifteen gems in the lines,” murmured Fuller thoughtfully, “and fifteen of them
in each line of the triangle. I wonder, Mr. Sorley, if the number fifteen is the
key to the secret.”

“I can’t say, I don’t know; I certainly cannot see how it can be,” replied the
host doubtfully. “I have tried in every way to solve the riddle, but I cannot
even see how to make a beginning, The secret may be contained in the position of
the stones, the shapes of the stones, or the color of the stones.” Alan faced
round. “What do you mean by the color answering the riddle?”

“It is just an idea I got from a man who is a theosophist. In what they—the
theosophists I mean—call the aura of a human being, which can be seen by those
gifted with astral sight, the colors all mean something.”

“I don’t quite follow you, Mr. Sorley, although I have heard something of this
sort from Dick. He believes in these occult things. Do you?”

“I can’t say that I have looked into them,” rejoined Sorley in a careless
manner. “I only attended to the matter so far as the meaning of colors was
concerned—a kind of color alphabet as it were. Pink means affection, blue means
religion, green sympathy, and so on. I applied the principle, but it wouldn’t
work.”

Fuller quite believed this, as he did not see how the principle in question
could be applied. However, he was too engrossed in drawing the bird to go into
the subject at the present moment, but promised himself to ask for a more
thorough explanation of the color alphabet—as Mr. Sorley aptly called it—from
Dick Latimer. Meantime he drew the outline of the peacock, filled in the
details, being particularly careful as to the position of the stones in the
tail, and then slowly colored every part in accordance with the original object.
When finished he laid down his brush with a tired sigh and held out the sketch
at arm’s length. Mr. Sorley restored the peacock to its chamois leather wrapping
and to the cupboard, after which he returned to examine Alan’s artistic effort.
“Very good, very good,” he said nodding, “you have done it very exactly,
although the drawing is very stiff.”

“Rather architectural isn’t it, sir? But the original is stiff also, and I am
not drawing from an artistic point of view, but with the idea of getting an
exact representation of the thing,” said Alan, and slipping the sketch into an
envelope, he put it along with the paint-box into his pocket. Before leaving,
Fuller determined to speak to Sorley of what he had heard from Mrs. Verwin
regarding the visit of Morad-Bakche to Belstone. He had immediately after the
interview warned Marie not to mention what had been said to her uncle, but on
reflection he thought that it would be just as well to learn what he could.
Moreover Mrs. Verwin being loose-tongued would probably talk about the matter,
and if it reached Sorley’s ears he might get it into his suspicious mind that
Alan was working against him, rather than with him, an attitude which was not to
be permitted, since in this case union was strength. Whether Sorley was guilty
or innocent the young man—as had been said before—could only decide on what
evidence he possessed; but in any event, seeing that the gentleman in question
was Marie’s uncle, Fuller wished to arrive at the truth without too much
publicity. For publicity on the face of it, meant the intervention of the
police. “Do you know that I went to dinner at Miss Grison’s boarding-house?”
asked Alan in a would-be careless manner. “No,” retorted Sorley, again looking
uneasy, “and it does not interest me if you did,” his manner gave the lie to
this statement. “That woman hates me and is trying to injure me!”

“In what way?”

Sorley looked hard at the speaker. “By bringing back the peacock.”

“I don’t quite understand.” And Fuller did not, as the remark puzzled him a
great deal, lacking, as it did, a feasible explanation. “The woman stole the
peacock,” said Sorley gloomily, “because she knew that I valued it and knew also
that there was a riddle connected with it which would probably result in a
treasure being found. For over twenty years she resisted all my supplications
and threats to give it back, and I did not dare to move in the matter—as I told
you before, Alan—lest she should destroy it. Yet here she comes down secretly
and puts back the peacock in its old place without a word of explanation. “Have
you asked her why she behaved in this manner?”

“No; I am only too content to have the golden bird back again without asking
questions. She would probably tell a falsehood since she hates me.”

“But if she hates you, Mr. Sorley, why did she give you back what you so very
greatly desired?”

“That is what I wish to know,” cried the elder man excitedly. “It is for no good
object I am certain. She means to cause trouble in some way, but how, I fail to
see. Remember her threats in this very room when she was here.”

Alan nodded. “It is very strange,” he murmured, and wondered if Sorley really
meant what he said, or whether he was preparing an excuse for himself should he
be told—say by the police—that Grison at the time of his death had possessed the
golden peacock. “It is very strange,” said Alan again, and pondered deeply,
while Sorley watched him gloomily and in a shifty stealthy manner. He seemed
more uneasy and anxious than ever. “Why did you visit Mrs. Grison’s boarding-
house?” he asked abruptly. Fuller roused himself. “To hear all I could about the
Rotherhithe crime, Mr. Sorley. Dick was at the inquest——”

“Dick. Who is Dick?”

“Dick Latimer, a reporter, the man who shares my rooms. We were at college
together. You have met him down here, Mr. Sorley.”

“Yes, yes, I remember now. His name slipped my memory. So he was at the inquest,
was he?”

“Yes, and like myself he is very interested in this crime.”

“There is nothing interesting about it,” said Sorley abruptly once more; “some
scoundrel of a sailor murdered the poor devil.”

“But the motive?” asked Fuller, wondering if his host hinted at the dead man’s
possession of the peacock. Sorley shrugged his shoulders. “Have those sort of
people ever any motive, Alan,” he asked skeptically. “Certainly. A man doesn’t
put his head in a noose for nothing.”

“A noose.” Mr. Sorley shivered and put his hand to his throat with an
uncomfortable look, “no I suppose a man would keep clear of the gallows if he
could. But—but—well never mind, Alan, let us change this disagreeable subject. I
promised to show you my own private collection of gems.”

“Yes, I shall be pleased to look at them,” answered the young man, who saw that
his last remark had greatly affected his host, a fact which again aroused his
suspicions, and made him shrink from the dapper gentleman. Mr. Sorley made no
reply, but went to a panel marked with a cross cut in its wood, which formed a
portion of the inside wall of the library. He fumbled at some spring for a
moment and then the panel slid into a groove to display a cupboard with many
shelves upon which were ranged trays of jewels. One by one the man brought them
to the central table, and his eyes glittered with fanatic joy as he pointed out
their various beauties. And certainly throughout many years he had succeeded in
gathering together a number of precious stones. “Little by little I have
collected for over thirty years,” explained Mr. Sorley, mounting his hobby-
horse, “buying here and there whenever I had the chance, and sometimes selling
at a bargain what I had bought, so as to get some particular gem. There are
quite six thousand pounds worth of jewels here, Alan, and only my poverty has
prevented my buying more.”

Fuller did not hint, as he might have done, that the collector had used his
ward’s income as well as his own to indulge his expensive taste, and had also
sold furniture to which he had no claim for the same reason. Under the
circumstances it was foolish to quarrel with Sorley on this point. Until the
mystery of the murder and the peacock was solved Alan wished to keep on good
terms with the man, who evidently had to do with both. He therefore examined the
gems and listened patiently to Sorley’s explanations. And the jewels were
certainly well worth looking at. There were diamonds cut and uncut, rubies
colored like port wine, and some of the true pigeon blood hue; emeralds
displayed their verdant tints, and there were sapphires the color of a summer
sky. Pearls were conspicuous by their absence, as if kept in a collection and
not worn, Sorley explained this—they became discolored; but beryl stones,
amethysts, carbuncles, and opals, many-hued as a rainbow were displayed on the
black velvet of the shallow trays. The collection was not of extraordinary
value, but Sorley gloated over his darlings, streaming the stones between his
fingers, holding them up to the light, and pointing out to Fuller the particular
excellence of each. “It’s an expensive hobby,” said Alan, after an hour had been
passed in this way, for Sorley talked on with the merciless zeal of a collector.
“In a manner it is, my boy; but then gems are always worth money, and I can
always sell these if necessary.” He shuddered, “I hope it will not be necessary.
It would be like parting with my life to give up these. I know every single one
and each represents days and weeks of bargaining. I could tell you the history
of each gem.”

“I fear that would be too long,” said Fuller hastily, for he was growing weary
of this enthusiasm; “but are you not afraid of these being stolen?”

“No,” snapped Sorley, putting back the trays and adjusting the panel, so that it
looked exactly like a portion of the wall, “no one would ever guess that the
jewels were behind that cross. You know, but I don’t think you will rob me,
Alan. Ha! ha! ha!”

“I am not fond enough of gems to do so,” said the young man indifferently; “but
you said at the vicarage that you feared lest you should be murdered for the
sake of your collection.”

“Did I? Did I? I forget.”

“You certainly did,” insisted Fuller, looking at him searchingly; “and you
seemed to be very much afraid.”

“Well of course there is six thousand pounds worth of gems there. Some one
might——”

“Have you any particular person in your mind?”

Sorley turned gray and gasped. “Why do you say that?” he asked sharply. Fuller
looked at him harder than ever. “I told you that I dined at Miss Grison’s
boarding-house,” he explained; “while there I met with a man, who called himself
Morad-Bakche!”

Mr. Sorley gasped again. “The Indian,” he muttered nervously. “Ah!” Alan gasped.
“So you have seen him.”

“Seen him, seen him. What do you mean?”

“I mean that this Morad-Bakche came down to Belstone to ask after the peacock,
and gained some information from Mrs. Verwin at the inn. She told him how it was
suspected that the Grisons had stolen the ornament, and gave him the Bloomsbury
address.”

“So Morad-Bakche is at Miss Grison’s,” muttered Sorley, sitting down; “that
makes it more certain that she is up to no good in connection with me.”

“I thought it strange myself,” said Alan dryly. Sorley did not reply, but looked
hard at the carpet, “What do you think of this Indian?” he asked abruptly. “I
think he is a man who will stick at nothing to get the peacock.”

“Then he is after that?”

“You should know,” said Alan meaningly. “How should I know.” There was a note of
defiance in the man’s voice. “Because Mrs. Verwin declared that Bakche went to
look at The Monastery. If he did, I think—from what you hinted just now—that you
saw him.”

“Yes, I saw him, and what is more I spoke to him. Confound that woman! She
chatters too much.”

“Why should she not?” questioned the solicitor. “The story of the peacock is
well known—that is the history of its being a fetish of the Inderwicks. That it
can reveal a treasure is not known, I fancy.”

“No. Quite so. After all Mrs. Verwin only said what everyone else can say, Alan.
But I wish she hadn’t told Bakche about the Grisons.”

Fuller shrugged his shoulders. “What does it matter now. You have the peacock in
your own possession.”

“Yes, I have the peacock, and if Bakche learns that, he may try and murder me.
He is just the man—as you say—to stick at nothing.”

“Oh, then, that was what you meant when you hinted your fears to me on Christmas
Day at the vicarage?”

“Yes.” Sorley wiped his face again, looking still gray and anxious, “and of
course Miss Grison had brought back the peacock by that time. If I hadn’t got it
I should not be so afraid. Ah,” he rose and began to walk up and down in a
startled way. “I see her game now Alan. She will tell Bakche how I have the
peacock and he will—and he will—oh Alan!”

The man gripped Fuller’s arm and appeared to be thoroughly frightened at the
idea of a raid being made by the Indian. The solicitor gently forced Sorley to
sit down again and asked for an explanation. “You must be frank with me if I am
to help you,” said the solicitor. “Oh I shall be frank,” panted Sorley, as
though he had been running for a long distance. “I can trust you, and you want
to marry my niece. It is to your benefit to be on my side, and then——”

Alan cut short this vague chatter. “Tell me about Bakche?”

“Well then, he did come to The Monastery about July last. He called here openly,
and told me what Mrs. Verwin had stated. He gave me to understand that he was
the representative of the Kam royal people, and knew all about the peacock.”

“How did he learn?”

“From some family papers which stated that the Begum had given the gems to
George Inderwick because he saved her life and the life of her son.”

“Hum!” murmured Alan to himself. “So the excuse of having been told by an
Inderwick in India it was lost.”

“Bakche wanted the peacock, and I told him that it was lost?”

“Did you say who had stolen it?”

“No, I didn’t. I thought if I did, that Miss Grison out of spite might give it
to him, and so I should lose the treasure.”

“Did Bakche know that the peacock would reveal the whereabouts of——”

Sorley interrupted eagerly. “Of course he did. The papers in question told him
that Ferrier had manufactured the peacock as a guide. Bakche declared that the
Begum had no right to give family jewels to Inderwick, and insisted that I
should surrender the peacock so that he could trace and recover them. I said
that the bird was lost, and he went away greatly dissatisfied, saying that he
would look for it.”

“Of course,” said Alan nodding; “and as Mrs. Verwin had told him that the
Grisons had stolen it, and had given him the boarding-house address, he went
there to get it from her.”

“I wonder why she didn’t give it to him to spite me,” groaned Sorley. Fuller was
on the point of saying that she could not because her brother possessed the
desired article, but checked himself. He did not wish to let Sorley know that he
knew how Baldwin Grison had been murdered for the sake of that very peacock. And
apparently from what had just been said, Sorley believed that the sister had
always possessed it. “She preferred to give it to you,” said Alan. “Yes,” cried
the man, “and why? Because she knew that Bakche wanted it. Now she will tell him
and he will come and murder me to get it.”

“He may not be so bloodthirsty,” said Fuller encouragingly, “and after all if
you fear that, why not give him the peacock.”

“No,” said Sorley energetically, “I shan’t give up the chance of getting the
treasure. It belongs to Marie. I can’t as her guardian give up that.”

“No.” Alan thought that Sorley was rather thinking of himself, than of his
niece, “but what’s to be done?”

“Nothing, I tell you, nothing,” said the other man almost fiercely, “I shall
hide the peacock along with my own jewels behind that panel. No one will ever
guess that it is there, and I shall ask the village policeman to keep an eye on
The Monastery in case Bakche tries to rob me . . . And what will you do, Alan?”

“My course is obvious, Mr. Sorley. I shall try and solve the riddle.”

“Yes, yes. And we can then get the treasure, and Bakche will be outwitted. Even
if he steals the peacock, we have the drawing to unravel the problem. Go! go!
Alan go! and hold your tongue, for Miss Grison may not have told the man that I
have the bird.”

“Perhaps,” said Fuller dubiously, “time alone will show!” and he took his leave
feeling that Miss Grison had probably informed Bakche about the peacock, on the
chance that he would trouble the man she hated. CHAPTER XI JOTTY

In due course Mr. Fuller returned to his office and to the chambers in Barkers
Inn, only to find that Dick had not yet put in an appearance. Alan regretted his
absence greatly, since Latimer was the one person to whom he could talk freely.
Needless to say, the young man was bubbling over with the information he had
acquired, and found it very difficult to think of anything else, which was
scarcely a good state of mind in which to attend to his clients’ affairs. Had
the solicitor been able, he would have set everything else aside until he had
solved the mystery of the Rotherhithe murder, and had learned the secret of the
peacock; but as he had to earn his bread and butter, such indulgence in
gratifying his curiosity was not to be thought of. Alan felt very unsettled for
quite a week after his arrival in Chancery Lane. Nor were his anxieties allayed
when he heard from his clerk, that during his absence, an urchin who called
himself Alonzo had haunted the office, demanding on every occasion to see Mr.
Fuller. And the odd thing about the matter was, that when Alan really did
return, Jotty—to give him his slum name—failed to put in an appearance. The
solicitor did not dare to write to the lad saying that he would be glad to
accord him an interview on a settled date, since Miss Grison might read the
letter and prevent the boy’s attendance. For the same reason Fuller did not call
at the Thimble Square house, lest its landlady, being extremely sharp, might—and
probably would—guess that he was tampering with Jotty’s loyalty. As a matter of
fact Alan was not, as he did not seek to question the page about the lady, but
simply wished to learn what he had to say concerning his association with
Baldwin Grison. And as the dead man’s sister desired that the assassin of her
brother should be captured and punished, Fuller deemed that he was right in
using every means to forward her aims. Jotty—Alan felt sure of this—was a
valuable witness, and, if dexterously questioned, might be able to throw some
light on the darkness which environed the crime. It certainly seemed that the
next step to be taken was the examination of the street-arab, but as the lad did
not put in an appearance, and Fuller—on the before-mentioned grounds—did not
dare to awaken Miss Grison’s suspicions by sending for him, he had to wait
patiently. And this, coupled with the continued absence of Latimer, did not tend
to sweeten the young man’s now irritable temper. In fact the wear and tear of
thought so displayed itself outwardly that when Dick did arrive he commented
openly on his friend’s sorry looks. The reporter came back to London by the
night mail, and finding when he got to Barkers Inn that Alan had already gone to
his office he followed him there as soon as a bath and a change of clothes had
made him respectable. Breakfast he had already dispatched in a restaurant on his
way from the railway station. Dick, having enjoyed his holiday, was in a happy
frame of mind, but his smiles left him when he saw his chum’s anxious face.
“What the deuce is the matter?” asked Mr. Latimer, when the first greetings were
over, and he was smoking comfortably in a chair, “you look sick.”

“I am sick—with worry,” said Fuller emphatically, “it’s that infernal case.”

“Oh,” said Dick leisurely; “which part of it in particular?”

“The whole. I have much to tell you, as I want your opinion. The more I look
into the matter the more confused does it grow.”

“Have you been looking into the matter?” asked Dick provokingly calm. “Yes, I
have, and in consequence I have scarcely enjoyed my Christmas at home,” cried
Alan. “Not even with the most charming girl in the world?”

“No. Because she asks questions, and I have to keep a great deal from her.”

“On account of her uncle?”

“Precisely!”

“Hum! Is he guilty?”

“I don’t know. Anyway he has the peacock.”

Latimer pushed back his chair and let his pipe fall. “What?”

“He has the peacock. I’ve seen it, and what is more he allowed me to make a
drawing of it,” and Alan fumbled among his papers for the sketch. “Here it is,
Dicky!”

“The devil!” ejaculated the journalist staring at the painted bird; “then the
man murdered Grison after all.”

“I’m not sure. I have my doubts.”

“But hang it, man, you know that Grison was murdered for the sake of the
original of this.” He laid his finger on the sketch, “and if Sorley has it, he
must have taken it out of the murdered man’s room.”

“Well you won’t be so sure of that when you have heard my story,” said Alan in a
tart way, for his nerves were all jangling. “Tell it, old son,” remarked
Latimer, recovering his pipe, and not another word did he utter until he was in
full possession of Alan’s information. The solicitor told him everything from
the time he had arrived at Belstone until the moment of departure, and carried
up the narrative as far as London by relating how Jotty had been haunting the
office. “And now that I am back, the little fool won’t turn up,” finished
Fuller, greatly exasperated, “and I dare not send for him.”

“No,” nodded Dick grimly, “that is very obvious. The quieter you keep this
business the better it will be until we get at its truth. Hum! It’s a most
extraordinary complication, Alan.” He stared at the sketch which was now lying
on the table. “Have you solved this riddle?”

“No. So far as I can see there isn’t any riddle to solve.”

“It looks like it,” murmured Dick, looking hard at Fuller’s artistic effort; “so
my sixth sense was right when it told me that Morad-Bakche was mixed up in the
matter.”

Alan nodded crossly. “But I wish that your sixth sense would tell you who
murdered Grison.”

“We shan’t learn that until we question the sister. If she admits that she took
the peacock to The Monastery at Belstone, Sorley will be exonerated. If she
declares that she did not, Sorley will have to account for its being in his
possession.”

“But confound it man, can’t you see that if—as Sorley says—she wishes to get him
into trouble, she will certainly decline to tell the truth.”

“What is the truth anyhow?” asked Dick, after the fashion of Pontius Pilate.
“Lord knows!” replied Fuller disconsolately. “Of course Jotty never said that
Grison had the peacock on the precise night of his murder. The boy only saw it
on previous occasions. It is quite possible that the dead man may have given it
to his sister to send to Sorley and make trouble. They both hated the man, and
evidently with good reason.”

“Yes; but if that were the case, it would argue that Grison knew he would be
murdered, which is ridiculous. Besides Sorley told a lie about his motor
bicycle, which shows that he does not wish it known he was able to slip up to
town and back again without making use of the publicity of the railway. I am
inclined to suspect Sorley as the guilty person.”

“Do you think Bakche may have killed Grison?”

“No; for if he had he would scarcely have given the peacock to the sister for
Sorley’s benefit.”

Alan nodded. “I thought that myself,” he said slowly. “Well what is to be done
now, Dicky?”

“Inspector Moon ought to know,” said Latimer significantly. Fuller jumped up
quickly, “Not just now, Dick; don’t say anything to him. He would certainly
arrest Sorley straight away, and I wish to spare Marie the disgrace.”

“But the truth is bound to come out sooner or later, Alan,” remarked Dick,
perplexed how to act. “The truth! Quite so. Still, when known, the truth may not
implicate Mr. Sorley. For all we know he may be perfectly innocent.”

“He may be,” retorted Latimer dryly, and with a shrug, “but to my mind he seems
to be deeply involved in the matter. The evidence is strong——”

“The circumstantial evidence,” corrected Alan quickly. “I don’t see that your
interpolated word matters a cent, sonny. The peacock being in the man’s
possession points to his guilt.”

“Unless Miss Grison left it secretly at The Monastery.”

“There is that chance certainly,” admitted Dick with another shrug. “However as
Sorley is not aware that he is suspected he won’t try to bolt, so under the
circumstances I shall hold my tongue until things straighten out a trifle. But
if he does try to leave the country, I must speak, Alan, and so must you, else
we may be accused of compounding a felony. As a lawyer you ought to know that
much.”

“I do know it,” said Fuller impatiently, “and if Sorley is guilty he assuredly
must be arrested and punished when the case is proved. All the same we must give
him the benefit of the doubt until his criminality is placed beyond all
question.”

“Why do you defend the man so?” asked Latimer suspiciously; “you don’t approve
of him, as you have told me dozens of times.”

“I am not thinking of the man so much as of Marie. The shame of having her uncle
tried and hanged for a sordid murder would certainly break her heart, Dick.”

“Well there’s something in that. How love does complicate honest behavior. But
that you love Miss Inderwick you would have no hesitation in telling Moon the
truth.”

“I admit that. But things being as they are, I must ask you not to speak to the
police until I give you leave.”

“Very good, old son. I see we’ll both end in jail, for tampering with the course
of justice. All the same I shall hold my tongue. And now that being settled so
far may I ask what you intend to do?”

“I can hardly say. What in your opinion is the step I should take?”

“Question Miss Grison and learn if she took back the peacock,” said Dick without
a moment’s hesitation. “But hang it all man, she will only tell lies.”

“Why should she?”

“Your common-sense, let alone what we talked about a few moments ago, should
tell you,” said Fuller impatiently. “If she did take all that trouble to
implicate Sorley, she won’t give herself away by acknowledging it. The admission
that she concealed the peacock in its old cupboard would exonerate Sorley. You
can see that?”

“Yes! Of course since she hates the man, she—— Hullo, what’s up?” Latimer asked
this question because Alan suddenly started to his feet and listened intently to
a noise in the outer office. “I hear a boy’s voice,” said the solicitor hastily
throwing open the door just in time to permit Jotty to be pushed into the room
by the indignant clerk with whom he had been arguing. “Oh it’s you, young man. I
thought so. That’s all right, Seymour, I’ll attend to him,” and Fuller, closing
the door, pointed out a chair to the page. “Sit down, Jotty.”

“Alonzer, please sir,” said the lad quickly, “I don’t want t’ hey anythin’ t’ do
wiff m’ ole bad self. I’ve turned over a new leaf, Miss Grison ses.”

“We’ll take a look at the old leaf before you do that finally,” said Alan,
seating himself at his desk. “Just now and for the next half hour, you are the
disreputable Jotty, and not the Sunday-school Alonzo.”

The boy grinned cunningly and nodded, glancing round the office and at Latimer
in a furtive and stealthy manner. He did not wear his page’s suit of many
buttons, but a civilian kit of badly-cut tweed clothes. But as his sleek hair
was well oiled, and he had a penny sprig of holly in his button-hole it must be
presumed that Jotty was out for the day, and was very pleased with his general
appearance. Being small and wizen, his legs scarcely touched the ground, when
seated, and he looked not unlike a monkey. But his very shrewd and restless
eyes, which were taking in everything to be stored in his active brain, showed
that he was a clever and decidedly dangerous lad. “Who’s him, sir?” asked Jotty,
pointing at Dick in negro fashion with his sharp chin, “d’y wan’ me t’ tork wen
he’s here?”

“Yes, and you know this gentleman, so don’t pretend ignorance.”

“Ho yes,” murmured Jotty with pretended surprise, “y’wos at th’ inquitch wosn’t
y’sir.”

“I was, Jotty. You and I and Inspector Moon had a talk.”

“’Ad we, sir?” asked the lad with a vacant look. Fuller leaned over and gave him
a shake. “No nonsense, boy,” he said sharply, “you have to answer a few
questions. I’m glad you have come to see me at last, you young rip.”

“At larst, sir,” protested the page meekly, “why I’ve bin an’ bin an’ bin ever
so oftin and couldn’t spot yer nohow, sir. An’ t’aint easy t’ git out of th’
house wen she’s got her eyes abaout nohow. But it’s m’day orf an’ I come along
t’ see if I cud make a quid or two.”

“Your price is a high one,” said Alan dryly, “how do I know what you have to
tell me is worth a pound, or a quid as you call it.”

“Oh I ain’t got nothink t’ tell,” said Jotty readily, “but I thought es y’d help
a pore cove es wants t’ be respectable.”

“I shall help you at a price,” said Fuller, who did all the talking while Dick
smoked in silence and kept his ears and eyes open. Latimer had not a very good
opinion of the witness, as he thought him cunning, and likely to tell lies
unless he was driven into a corner, and perhaps for that very reason. “Do you
know this?” asked Alan, pushing the sketch under Jotty’s shrewd blue eyes. Dick
frowned at the action, as he deemed it wise that Alan should have kept the fact
of the peacock being in Sorley’s possession to himself, in the meantime at all
events. “Yessir,” said Jotty quickly, “it’s a picter of him es was kind t’ me’s
goldbird es he showed me times an’ agin.”

“Well then,” said Alan, and Dick’s frown relaxed as he spoke, “this picture, as
you call it was taken long ago, before Mr. Grison got the peacock. Was the bird
like that sketch, or is there any change.”

“Nosir. It wos just like that here. Wiff a big tail and shiny things on it. Them
spots is th’ shiny things ain’t they, sir?”

Alan nodded, while Dick grinned at this compliment to his friend’s artistic
abilities. “When did you see the peacock last?”

“On the very night es he es wos kind t’ me wos murdered.”

“Can you swear to that?” asked Alan with secret dismay, for this reply seemed to
prove that Sorley was guilty. “Yessir. I kin swear hard I kin,” said Jotty with
a frank smile. “Are you sure that Mr. Grison didn’t give the peacock to someone,
say a day or so before he met with his death?”

“Him give it away,” cried Jotty with supreme contempt, “why sir, he es wos good
t’ me, ses t’ me es he’d rather die nor give up thet shiny thing. An’ die he
did, when it wos took.”

“Who took it, boy?” demanded Dick suddenly. “Him es slipped the knife int’ th’
pore cove.”

“Are you sure that Grison had the peacock on the night he died?” asked Alan,
fighting against hope for Marie’s sake. “I’d swear t’ it anywhere, sir,” said
Jotty confidently. “I liked t’ hev a look et that there shiny thing, and him es
wos good t’ me, he shows it t’ me most every night, saying wot lots of swell
things it cud buy. Every night he showed it t’ me,” repeated Jotty with
emphasis, “and afore he went t’bed that night he let me ’ave a squint.”

“On the night he was murdered.”

“On the night he was done for,” said Jotty in his own simple way. “That seems
conclusive, Alan,” put in Latimer. “Yes,” said the lawyer with a sigh, then
added under his breath. “Poor Marie, what a shock for her. Jotty, you liked Mr.
Grison, didn’t you?”

“Yessir, no end. He wos good t’ me, and guv’ me things t’ eat an’ drink. Oh my,”
Jotty rubbed his lean stomach vulgarly, “the baked taters an’ corfee and
saveloys I hed when he stood sam.”

“Then you would like the man who stabbed him to be punished?” pursued Fuller
artfully. “Yessir; and bring him t’ th’ gallers I shell somehow.”

“But you have no idea who murdered Mr. Grison?” remarked Latimer quickly. “Oh
hevn’t I? Perhaps not, and praps I ain’t sich a fool es you’d think me t’ be,
mister. I knows whot I knows anyhow.”

“What is that, Jotty.”

The lad looked indescribably cunning. “I ain’t agoin’ t’ tell till I’m a dead
cert es I’m right.”

“But if you tell me, Jotty, I can help you.”

“I don’ want no help,” said the boy sullenly. “If I speak to Inspector Moon
you’ll have to tell,” said Dick sharply. “Sha’n’t, so there,” growled Jotty, his
shrill voice becoming gruff as if the change to manhood had suddenly taken
place. “You shall.”

Jotty made no reply, but looked at both gentlemen with a mulish expression
evidently determined not to speak. “It’s wuth a quid or two,” he muttered after
a long pause. “What is worth a quid or two?” demanded Alan, eyeing him with a
strong dislike, for he objected to the brat’s obstinacy. “What I knows.”

“What do you know?”

“That’s tellin’s.”

“If I give you a quid, as you call it, will you tell.”

“Yessir,” said Jotty promptly, and held out a curved claw in which Alan, as
promptly, placed a sovereign. The boy bit it to prove its quality and then spat
on it for luck. “I knows someone es wos with him es wos good t’ me, on that
night,” said Jotty, agreeably supplying the information. “Who was the person?”
asked Latimer, while Alan winced, quite expecting to hear the name of Sorley.
“Sha’n’t tell.”

“Do you know the name?”

“Yessir. Leastways I spelled it out fro’ th’ letter. Oh I’ve ’ad schoolin’, I
’ave, gents both, and knows m’ letters somehow.”

“What is this letter?” asked Alan in a peremptory tone. “A letter es the cove es
came wrote sayin’ he’d come. I never sawr him es wrote the letter,” explained
Jotty, “cos, after I seed the peacock on th’ night; him es wos good t’ me turned
me out to dos elsewheres. But I fun’ the letter I did in them ole clothes.”

“Whose old clothes?”

“Him es wos good t’ me.”

“Mr. Grison?”

“Yessir. He fell an’ got covered with mud like. An’ he ses t’ me he’d like me t’
taike the mud orf, and I did. In th’ coat I fun’ th’ letter, an’ wrapped up
marbles in it. I furgot t’ put it back,” added Jotty in an apologetic manner,
“an’ es he es wos good t’ me didn’t ask fur no letter, I never said anything, I
didn’t, nohow.”

“When was this?” questioned Alan anxiously. “On the day afore he es wos good t’
me wos made a dead un.”

“Have you the letter?”

“Yes sir!” and Jotty clutched the breast of his ill-fitting jacket, “but I want
another quid or two for it.”

“You know how to make a bargain, young man,” said Latimer humorously; “just hand
over that letter at once.”

“I sha’n’t. So there,” said Jotty, turning obstinate again. “It’s wuth another
quid anyhow. An’ I sawr him es wrote it when he called t’ see him es wos good t’
me afore.”

“Oh this person called to see Mr. Grison before, did he.”

“Onct or twice he did. Allays at night, and then they torks.”

“What about?”

“I dunno, sir. I never heard. Him es was good t’ me, he allays turned me out wen
the gent came.”

“Oh,” said Dick meditatively, “so this visitor was a gent?”

“Yes sir. A real gent, wiff slap-up clothes and——”

The description sounded like that of Sorley, and Alan stretched out his hand. “I
want that letter, you imp?” he said impressively. “Give me a quid an’ it’s
yours.”

Fuller shrugged his shoulders and glanced at Latimer, who nodded. It was
unpleasant being dictated to by a boy, but the issues were so great that Dick’s
nod intimated it was best to agree, and get the epistle in question with the
least possible trouble. Money was scarce with Fuller, but so anxious was he to
arrive at the truth that he reluctantly brought forth another sovereign. Jotty
clawed it and went through the same ceremony. He then produced a letter written
on very excellent paper, which was dirty with having been in his pocket for some
length of time, probably to wrap up the marbles he had mentioned. In his anxiety
Dick rose and looked over his friend’s shoulder to read the letter. It did not
take long, as it only consisted of a date, a line and the writer’s initials as
follows, on a plain sheet of gray note-paper without any address:—

“11 _November_. “Will see you seven o’clock, 13: 11: 08. “R. V. S.”

“Is it his writing?” asked Latimer, referring to Sorley, but not mentioning the
name because of Jotty’s presence. “I think so. I can compare it with the letter
he wrote me. The initials are certainly his, and the appointment is for the
night of the murder.”

“But he wos up afore,” put in Jotty, who grinned in a very satisfied manner, as
he well might do, considering he had just made two pounds. “Who was up before?”
asked Latimer sharply. “Him es wrote thet letter.”

“Can you describe the man?”

“Ain’t I done so,” said Jotty in an injured tone, “he wos a real gent wiff slap-
up clothes. Hadn’t got no hair on his face he hadn’t and torked es if every cove
wos dirt. Stiff-like, too, an’ an ole ’un, tryin’ to look like a young toff.”

Alan winced again as both the letter and Jotty’s very excellent description
seemed to prove that Sorley was the guilty person. “How do you know that this
gentleman you describe wrote the letter?”

“Cos I seed him coming up an hour or so afore him es wos good t’ me kicked th’
bucket. I wos turned out, long afore he come in. So I goes away an’ dosses wiff
a friend o’ mine, and never hears no more till nex’ morning when Mother Slaig,
she ups and ses es murder had bin done cruel.”

“Is that all you know?”

“Every blessed bit, sir,” said Jotty cheerfully. “Why didn’t you tell this to
Inspector Moon at the inquest?” demanded Latimer sharply. “Cos there wasn’t no
quids in it then,” retorted the boy impudently, “an’ I do nothin’ fur nothin’, I
do anyhow. An’ now I’ve got wot I arsked fur,” he placed his cap on his head,
“I’m on t’ give m’self a treat.”

The youth had edged near the door by this time, and held it slightly open,
evidently expecting to be stopped. Indeed Fuller put out an arm to detain him
and ask further questions, only to cause Jotty to vanish in a remarkably swift
space of time. Dick prevented Alan, who was about to follow. “Let him go,” said
Latimer quickly, “we can always get hold of him when we want. Compare the
letters?”

Without a word Alan did so, and placed both the one he had received from Sorley
and that which Jotty had sold, under Dick’s eye. The latter drew a long breath.
“There’s no doubt about it, Alan,” he said sadly, “they are written by one and
the same man. Sorley had an appointment with Grison at Mother Slaig’s on the
night of the crime, as this letter proves. Also Jotty declares that he saw him,
for the description is very accurate. Hum! I wish you had not shown the boy that
drawing of the peacock.”

“The moment I did show it, I guessed that I had made a mistake,” said Fuller
quickly; “and so I was forced against my will to tell a necessary lie in order
to lull the lad’s suspicions. But it seems evident, Dick, that Sorley got the
peacock from Grison, and that the yarn about the sister leaving it, is wholly
untrue. What’s to be done now?”

“Sorley must be arrested for murder,” said Dick decisively. “No, no. He may be
innocent after all!”

“Innocent when you have seen that note and heard Jotty’s description?”

“Well,” said Alan anxiously, “wait for three days before doing anything.”

Dick wavered then made up his mind abruptly. “All right, I’ll wait,” he said
gruffly. CHAPTER XII AN INDIAN CLIENT

Dick Latimer had promised to hold his peace for three days before imparting to
the inspector who was in charge of the Rotherhithe case what had been discovered
with reference to Sorley. All the same he was troubled in his mind, as he could
not be sure if he was acting rightly. Much as he sympathized with Fuller because
the man likely to be arrested was the uncle of the girl to whom his friend was
engaged, it did not seem right that a criminal should remain at large. The
journalist indeed thought that Alan’s objections were rather sentimental, and
that justice should be done in spite of Marie’s feelings, which assuredly would
be outraged. Nevertheless he admitted that Fuller was placed in a difficult
position, and it was natural that he should wish to gain time in the hope of
proving Mr. Sorley’s innocence, and so avert the scandal. But, so far as Dick
could see, there was no chance of clearing the man’s character. He had been with
Grison, whom he openly detested, on the very night when the murder was
committed, and shortly before it took place, as was conclusively proved not only
by the letter, but by the evidence of the street-arab, who certainly could never
have invented such an accurate description of the guilty person. Then again,
Jotty had sworn that on the night of the crime he had been given his usual treat
of a display of the peacock, and since that was now in Sorley’s possession, it
could only have passed into it directly from the dead man. And as the presumed
criminal’s full name, Randolph Vernon Sorley, was intimated by the initials R.
V. S., and the note to Grison was certainly in his handwriting there appeared to
be no doubt that he had murdered the miserable creature to obtain wrongful
possession of the Inderwick fetish. Finally, since that had been stolen, all
Sorley’s energies had been bent upon getting it again, and in desperation he
probably had struck the fatal blow. Of course the story of Miss Grison having
taken the peacock back to The Monastery was one—so Dick thought—deliberately
invented to implicate the woman and account for the reappearance of the desired
article. Upon this evidence it could scarcely be doubted that Sorley was guilty,
and when the fact that he had purchased a motor bicycle was taken into account,
Latimer could see no flaw in the indictment. More than ever he considered it
necessary to have Sorley brought to justice, which would be done as soon as
Inspector Moon was informed of these discoveries. But having made a promise,
Dick faithfully kept it, in spite of the many qualms of conscience he daily
felt. Then on the third day he took up a newspaper to find a new and
extraordinary development of the case. After mastering the article, which
appeared in _The Latest News_, a daily paper much given to gossip, he jumped
into a hansom and drove direct to Fuller’s office. It chanced that Alan was not
engaged, so Dick entered at once into his friend’s private room, flourishing the
paper. “Have you seen this?” he asked, placing it before Alan. “Seen what?”
asked the other, glancing at the heading indicated, and then he took in the
meaning at once. “Good Lord!”

He might well utter the ejaculation, for the article contained an account of the
Inderwick fetish given—as was intimated—by no less a person than Miss Louisa
Grison. The story of Ferrier was narrated, much in the same fashion as it
appeared in the manuscript at The Monastery, and it was very plainly stated that
a treasure was to be found when the riddle attached to the peacock was solved.
Finally, Miss Grison ended the interview with the man, who had written the
article, by saying that her dead brother had possessed the golden bird at the
time of his death, and that in her mind there was no doubt that he had been
murdered for its sake. “Find the peacock,” said Miss Grison, “and you find the
assassin of my dear brother.” Then the article terminated with comments by the
writer on the extraordinary and romantic story which had been set forth, and
with the original remark culled from Hamlet, “That there were more things in
heaven and earth, etc., etc.”

“I wonder he didn’t add that truth is stranger than fiction,” remarked Dick,
while Alan hastily skimmed the account. “It is just as original. Well, my son,
and what do you think now?”

“I think,” replied Fuller, very decisively, “that Jotty has repeated to his
mistress what he told us, and she has taken steps to trap Sorley.”

“But she doesn’t know that he has the peacock—for certain that is?”

Alan shrugged his shoulders. “My mistake in showing the drawing to the boy has
proved that Sorley has the bird. Miss Grison, I daresay, knew that no sketch had
been made of it before it was taken away; and in any event what Jotty told us is
sufficient evidence to secure Sorley’s arrest.”

“I think so indeed. There is no longer any need for me to keep silence.”

“Well,” said Fuller hesitatingly, “I suppose there isn’t. Moon is certain to see
this account, and will come to ask Miss Grison why she has made the matter
public after promising to be silent. She can only excuse herself by repeating
Jotty’s story, and Moon will certainly go down to Belstone to arrest Sorley.
Poor Marie!”

“I’m not so sure you can call her that,” put in Dick hastily. “After all if the
man is a criminal, it is better that she should not be in his company.”

“But the disgrace to the name——”

“To Sorley’s name, not to Miss Inderwick’s. Besides when she marries you she
will change her name. It is no use being sentimental any longer, my boy,” said
Latimer resolutely. “The man must be punished. I’m off to see the inspector, and
tell him what I know.”

“But Dick won’t it be best to question Miss Grison first, and learn if she
really has heard Jotty’s story.”

“I am quite sure she has,” said the reporter emphatically, “else she would not
have broken her promise to Moon. The matter of the peacock was kept silent so
that the assassin, feeling safe, might betray himself—as he has done, by the way
to you. Miss Grison, learning from the boy that Sorley is guilty, has taken the
opportunity of making the story as public as possible so that the man can’t
escape.”

“He may see the papers and take warning,” suggested Alan. “I expect this tale
will be in every paper in the kingdom to-morrow.”

“All the more reason that I should see Moon at once. I am not going to dilly-
dally any more, Alan, but do my duty, as I expect you to do yours.”

“I can’t blame you. Go and see Moon.”

Latimer hesitated at the door. “You won’t wire to Sorley, or send that paper to
him, I suppose.”

“No. If the man is guilty and it certainly looks as though he were, he must be
punished. I shall not interfere, unpleasant as the scandal will be for Marie. Go
and do your duty, Dick, by telling Moon, and I shall do mine by keeping
perfectly quiet.”

Latimer argued no longer but took his departure, leaving Alan much disturbed in
his own mind. And no wonder. Marie did not love her uncle, who had always
treated her with indifference, and had made use of her money for his own
purposes. Still, it would be a terrible shock for her to hear that he had
murdered the brother of Miss Grison, and of course the shame of having a
relative hanged would be great. And Fuller did not see how Mr. Sorley could
escape the gallows, since the evidence on the whole was so very decisive. At the
best he could only defend himself by putting forward the story about Miss
Grison, and that was but a weak line to take up. “Hum!” said Alan, opening the
drawer of his desk to look at the sketch he had made, “I wish I had not showed
this to Jotty. He must have mentioned it to Miss Grison, and from that fact she
probably guessed that Sorley had the peacock. The man will certainly be
arrested, for he will have no time to escape.”

As Alan murmured this he glanced idly at the paper which Dick had brought, and
saw that it was dated the previous day, and of course had been issued yesterday
morning. It occurred to the young man that chance might possibly bring the paper
to Sorley’s notice, since four and twenty hours—if not more—had elapsed since
its publication. And if the man was warned in time he assuredly would escape,
before Inspector Moon could lay hands on him. Fuller hoped that this would be
the case, if only to spare Marie the shame and pain of the scandal. But after
all it was doubtful if the account would fall into Sorley’s hands immediately,
as few newspapers arrived at Belstone, and the doings of the world were always
hours and days and, at times, weeks late. The solicitor shook his head
dubiously, and wrapping up his sketch in the journal, he placed both in the
drawer of his desk. There seemed nothing for it but to wait for Sorley’s arrest,
and to hear what defense he would make to the charge brought against him.
Shortly a card was presented to the lawyer by his clerk, and on seeing the name
Fuller ordered the owner to be shown in at once. In a few moments he was face to
face with Mr. Morad-Bakche, who looked calm and aristocratic and—as Alan
judged—indifferent. Yet if he had seen the article in _The Latest News_, and
really had come to England to search for the treasure, Bakche surely would not
feign a nonchalance he could not possibly feel. “How are you, Mr. Bakche?”
asked, Alan, polite and watchful, while placing a chair for the Indian, “so you
have come to see me as you said you would.”

“Yes, sir, and about a very important subject,” replied Bakche, sitting down
stiffly, and taking a newspaper out of his pocket. “Yes?” said Alan inquiringly,
though of course the moment he saw the paper produced he knew why the man had
come to see him. Bakche doubled back the journal and pointed out the article
with a slender brown finger. “Have you seen this?” he asked quietly. It was not
to Fuller’s interest to admit anything, as it was necessary to conduct this
interview with great caution. The young man quietly read again the account of
the interview with Miss Grison. All the time, Bakche was looking at him hard,
trying to guess by the expression of Alan’s face what he truly thought. But the
solicitor was prepared for the scrutiny, and kept an unmoved countenance. “Very
interesting,” remarked Fuller coolly, when he had finished. “But not new to you,
sir, I presume.”

“Well no, Mr. Bakche. The story told by Miss Grison is well known in Belstone,
the parish of which my father is the vicar. I have heard it before.”

“Have you heard before that this man Grison was murdered for the sake of the
peacock?” demanded the Indian rather impatiently, and thereby showed that his
indifference was mainly pretence. “It was commonly reported in Belstone that the
Grisons, brother and sister, had stolen the peacock from the Inderwick family
when they left The Monastery some twenty years ago. But, pardon me, Mr. Bakche,
why do you come here and ask me these questions?”

“Can’t you guess, sir?”

“How can I guess?” retorted Fuller cautiously. “By putting two and two together,
as is your English way,” said Bakche in a calmer manner. “I told you when you
dined at Miss Grison’s that I had come to England in order to recover certain
family property.”

“You did. Well?”

“The property I referred to is the peacock of jewels,”

“How did you expect me to know that, Mr. Bakche?”

“I can answer that if you will reply to a question?”

“What is the question?”

“Do you know the story set forth in this article?” asked the Indian quickly.
“Yes. As I told you the whole countryside knows it.”

“Then you must be aware that the Begum of Kam gave the jewels to Simon Ferrier.
I told you that I am a descendant of the Rajah of Kam, so you must have guessed
that I desired to obtain possession of the peacock.”

“Quite so,” said Fuller coolly, “but there was no need for me to say so.”

Bakche was honest enough to admit this. “You are very cautious, you English
gentlemen,” he said with a faint sneer, “and no doubt you did not wish me to get
the peacock.”

“I fail to see how my telling you what you have now told me would aid you to get
what belongs rightfully to another person.”

“It does not belong to another person, but to me,” cried Bakche wrathfully. Alan
raised his eyebrows. “How do you make that out?” he demanded in an exasperating
manner. “George Inderwick’s servant, Ferrier, manufactured the peacock for his
master and——”

“And so manufactured it that in some strange way it reveals where the jewels of
the Begum are concealed,” finished the Indian sharply. “Understand Mr. Fuller,
that I do not exactly claim the peacock——”

“You did just now,” interrupted Alan in his turn, and shrugging. “Only because I
wish to learn where the jewels are hidden.”

“Indeed. You will find that difficult, since for over one hundred years, the
riddle of the peacock has been unsolved.”

“Never mind,” said Bakche doggedly. “If I see the bird I shall probably be able
to learn the truth.”

“And then?——” Alan raised his eyebrows again. “Then,” said the other
confidently, “I shall take the jewels.”

“You may not be allowed.”

“Why not. The jewels belong to me as the descendant of the Rajah of Kam.”

“You forget,” said Fuller smoothly, “that the rajah’s wife gave the same to
George Inderwick because he saved her life and the life of her son.”

“She had no right to do so,” cried Bakche loudly, “the jewels were not her
private property to dispose of, Mr. Fuller. They belonged to the family—to the
state as it were. Royal treasure cannot be parted with in this way.”

“I am not prepared to argue the matter, Mr. Bakche,” remarked Fuller in a dry
manner, “since—beyond the known story, which has become a Sussex legend—I am not
acquainted with the exact facts. But I would point out that the rajah may have
given his wife permission to reward her preserver in this way. Inderwick
assuredly deserved a return for what he did.”

Bakche bowed stiffly. “I admit that the gentleman acted bravely, and as I am
descended from the young prince he saved I am indebted to him for the fact that
I exist at all. Nevertheless, Mr. Fuller, the reward need not have taken the
form of almost the whole of the royal treasure of Kam.”

Alan shrugged his shoulders again. “The Begum was apparently a very grateful
woman, Mr. Bakche. And if she had retained the treasure, it would have been
confiscated by the British Government when the royalty of Kam was abolished.”

“It is probable,” said Bakche dryly; “but I think that the priests would have
taken care to preserve the jewels and give them, when times became quieter, to
the rightful owner.”

“In which case you would now be in possession of them, I presume?”

“Certainly. I am a direct descendant of the prince saved by Mr. Inderwick, sir.
As it is I shall certainly claim them.”

“You have to find them first,” retorted Alan coolly. “Show me the peacock and I
shall try to solve the riddle and find them.”

Fuller laughed and shrugged. “Does that mean I am the criminal?”

“Oh no,” Bakche hastened to explain smoothly; “but you may know where the
peacock is to be found.”

“Really, I don’t quite follow your line of argument, Mr. Bakche. “Let me put the
matter in this way,” said the Indian deliberately: “The peacock is not only
valuable in itself, but also indicated the whereabouts of a great treasure. Miss
Grison declares that her brother was murdered for the sake of the bird, so it is
plain that the assassin must have known the meaning of the riddle.”

“Still I cannot follow your line of argument,” persisted Fuller; “so far as I
know the riddle has never been solved, unless Baldwin Grison, who had the bird
for over twenty years—according to his sister that is—guessed what has baffled
everyone.”

“Well,” said Bakche sullenly, “whether he solved the riddle or not, some one who
wanted the treasure murdered him to obtain the clue.”

“On the other hand some rough sailor may have killed the man merely for the sake
of getting the bird. It is valuable enough, as you say yourself, to account for
the assassin risking his neck. But why come to me, Mr. Bakche, since on the face
of it I can possibly know nothing.”

“You know who wants the bird!”

“Oh yes. Miss Inderwick, from whose house it was stolen, and to whom I am
engaged, wants the bird very much, since it belongs rightfully to her. But I
hope you don’t accuse a girl of twenty of the crime.”

“No! no! no!” said Bakche earnestly; “but other people know of the value of the
peacock.”

“I agree. The whole countryside knows the story. If you suspect anyone in
Belstone you had better go down and look for the individual.”

“I suspect Mr. Sorley!”

“Why?” demanded Alan, who had quite anticipated the question. “Because he wanted
the peacock.”

“So did Miss Inderwick, so did many other people. Everyone who knows the story
would like to find the jewels.” Alan paused for a reply but as none came he
continued coolly: “How did you trace the possession of the peacock to Baldwin
Grison?”

“I didn’t—that is, I did in a way,” stammered the Indian nervously. “In what
way?” asked Fuller relentlessly, and trying to make Bakche tell what was already
known to him, “for instance how did you come to live at Miss Grison’s boarding-
house?”

“I explained when I met you there, sir.”

Fuller laughed ironically. “You did, and I beg leave to doubt the truth of the
explanation, Mr. Bakche.”

“How dare you, sir; by what right do you doubt me?” demanded the man furiously,
and his dark eyes shot fire. “By the doubt of common-sense. You were in search
of the peacock in order to gain a clue to the hiding-place of these jewels you
claim. Come now, Mr. Bakche, it was not mere chance that guided you to Miss
Grison, who of all the people in London, knew about the matter.”

Morad-Bakche looked sullenly at the carpet, and evidently saw that Alan was one
too many for him. After a long pause, which Fuller took care not to terminate
too soon, he looked up with a would-be frank smile. “As I wish you to help me in
the matter,” he declared, “I may as well make a clean breast of what I know.”

Alan nodded, and neither refused or agreed to accept the man as his client, but
intimated that he was ready to give his attention to the confession. Morad-
Bakche at once took exception to the word. “It is not a confession I wish to
make, sir, but merely a statement to show how I came to learn about the matter
we are discussing.”

“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said Fuller ceremoniously, “go on please!”

Bakche frowned at the irony of his tone, but made no further objection to
relating what he knew. “My explanation as to how I came to Thimble Square was
not wholly true, Mr. Fuller,” he said abruptly. “So I thought at the time?”

“Why did you think so?” asked Bakche quickly. “Because I got it into my head
that you were after the Inderwick fetish, although when you spoke I did not know
that it was the Begum of Kam who had given away the jewels. That fact I learned
later. However, it struck me that if you had come on some such errand, you went
for that reason to Miss Grison’s boarding-house, and not because your Ceylon
friend recommended it.”

Bakche nodded. “Very creditable to your intelligence,” he said in a patronising
manner. “To be plain, sir, I learned the story which is set forth in the
newspaper, from some family documents.”

“As I thought,” murmured Fuller softly. “Seeing that the Begum had given away
jewels which should rightfully belong to the family I determined to find them. I
came to England and went to Belstone, where the documents I mentioned informed
me the Inderwicks lived. At the inn there I learned from a very voluble woman
all that was to be known about the loss of the peacock. . . Afterwards I visited
Mr. Sorley, who is, I understand, the guardian of Miss Inderwick, to whom the
peacock is supposed to belong. He told me that the ornament was lost, but he did
not say who had taken it from The Monastery.”

“Quite so,” said Alan, remembering that Sorley had withheld such information
lest Miss Grison should give the peacock to the man; “but of course Mrs. Verwin
at the inn hinted that the Grisons had the bird.”

“She did, sir and what is more she gave me the address of the boarding-house in
Thimble Square. I returned to London in July last and took up my abode there,
determined to learn all that I could.”

“Well?” asked Fuller, when the Indian paused. “Well,” echoed the other, “I
learned nothing particular.”

“Hum!” remarked Alan doubtfully, and looking hard at the speaker, “did you tell
Miss Grison the story of your search?”

“Yes I did, at a later period when I had become more or less friendly with her.
I even stated that it was reported how she and her brother had stolen the
peacock.”

“What answer did she make?”

“She said nothing to the purpose, only stating that she believed there was such
an ornament, but that she did not know where it was. Of course in the light of
this interview,” added Bakche, placing his hand on the newspaper, “you can see
that for her own ends she spoke falsely. Evidently Baldwin, her brother, was the
thief, and possessed it the whole time. The wonder is, Mr. Fuller, that being
desperately hard up as he was, he did not sell or pawn the peacock.”

“I rather think that the man hoped to learn the secret and get possession of the
jewels. Did you ever see Grison?”

“No,” said Bakche so quickly that Alan felt sure he was not speaking the exact
truth, and became more sure of the fact when he elaborated his denial. “Miss
Grison refused to give me her brother’s address, which I knew was in some slum.
And of course, not guessing that Grison had the peacock, I did not push my
enquiries. Had I known that he had the bird I should have placed the matter in
the hands of a private detective, and in some way I should have learned his
whereabouts.”

“And then?”

“Then,” said Bakche, drawing a deep breath and clenching his small hands, “I
should have forced him to surrender it to me.”

“You would have used violence?” asked Alan in A peculiar tone. “Yes! That is——”
Bakche broke off with a laugh of contempt. “Why do you look at me so
suspiciously, Mr. Fuller? Do you think that I did see the man and did use
violence even to the extent of stabbing him? You are entirely wrong, sir. Had I
murdered him and obtained the peacock I should by this time have been far away
on the Continent out of danger, and until things grew quieter, I should have
remained absent trying to solve the riddle. I am not the criminal, and I am not
the possessor of the peacock.”

“I grant that,” said Fuller quietly, who knew well that the man spoke the truth,
since Sorley owned the bird at that moment. “Well, and what do you expect me to
do, Mr. Bakche?”

“I wish you to find out who murdered Grison, so that the peacock may be
recovered and handed over to me.”

“On behalf of Miss Inderwick I am doing that,” said Alan dryly, “so I cannot
possibly act on your behalf.”

“The peacock is mine,” cried the Indian, rising to his feet with a snarl which
again reminded Fuller of his tigerish nature. “The peacock is Miss Inderwick’s,
and should I find it, I shall hand it over to her so that she may discover the
treasure.”

“You are——” began Bakche violently, then suddenly and dangerously restrained his
anger and smiled meaningly. “Well, since you are engaged to the lady, it is
natural that you should want her to gain the jewels——”

“Mr. Bakche, stop that if you please.” Alan rose in his turn with indignant
looks. The Indian shrugged his shoulders and walked to the door. “It is a duel
between us,” he said smoothly, “you want what I want, so we shall see who wins.
And I can tell you what is your best step to take.”

“Very kind of you, Mr. Bakche. And that is——”

“To find the boy Alonzo, formerly called Jotty. He knows the truth.”

“Then why not question him, since he is at Miss Grison’s house?”

“Indeed he is not; Jotty has been missing since last night!” and refusing to
explain further, the Indian departed, leaving Fuller greatly astonished and
greatly annoyed also, that the boy should have disappeared. CHAPTER XIII AN
UNEXPECTED VISITOR

Dick’s remark when he brought news of the Rotherhithe crime, that there were
more romantic than commonplace events to be found in present-day life, seemed to
be verified by what had taken place. A hidden treasure, a riddle in gems and
gold, a mysterious murder, a melodramatic Indian, and the necessary pair of
lovers to spice the whole—these were certainly details out of which to weave a
tale worthy of more highly-colored days. And Destiny who was relating the story
to an interested world was doing her best to involve her characters in a whirl
of unhappy things. For even if Sorley were arrested and confessed his guilt and
suffered punishment, the story—as Alan considered—would by no means be ended,
since the jewels had to be discovered and detained from the clutch of Morad-
Bakche. Marie had to be comforted and married, and Miss Grison—the Atê of the
tale—had to be appeased. There was a great deal yet to be done before things
could be settled, and Fuller, as the hero of Fate’s fiction, felt that he ought
to do something towards bringing about a necessary climax. But as yet he could
not see his way to do anything. And to make matters worse, Latimer next day
arrived with the news that Sorley had disappeared. On the previous day Inspector
Moon had been duly told the story, and the evidence of Sorley’s complicity had
been placed under his official eye. With the joyful feeling that here was a case
which would reflect credit on him if dexterously managed, Moon procured a
warrant, and took the night train to Lewes. About midnight he arrived at The
Monastery, only to learn that Sorley had gone away early in the day, and neither
Marie, nor the three Trents, were able to tell the inspector whither he had
departed. Hastily packing a small bag, and wearing an unpretentious tweed suit,
the suspected man had vanished from The Monastery and Belstone on his motor
bicycle. Moon, having acted immediately on Latimer’s information, was furious at
the escape, and could not understand how the man had been warned. Henny Trent
however threw some light on the darkness of this point by stating that Mr.
Sorley had been visited by a small boy with light hair and blue eyes. The urchin
had not been seen since the departure of Marie’s uncle, so it was presumed that
he had left earlier. In disgust at his bad luck, Moon installed an officer in
the house to watch for the possible return of Sorley, and had come back in the
morning to London, where he informed Dick that the bird had flown. Now Latimer
had come in the afternoon to the Chancery Lane office to explain to his friend.
Alan was much surprised to hear that Sorley had been warned, and from a
suspicious look in Dick’s eyes fancied that Latimer suspected him. “I did not
break my promise,” he protested sharply and stiffly and unasked. “No one
suggested that you did,” growled the reporter, who was annoyed that the
criminal—as he truly considered Sorley—had escaped. “Your eyes suggest quite
enough,” retorted Fuller, hurt by the suspicion, “and you should know me better,
Dick, than to think that I broke faith.”

Latimer flushed. “I’m sorry, Alan, but I really did have some such thought,
although I see now that it was unwarranted. But you had every temptation to save
the man, seeing that he is Miss Inderwick’s uncle.”

“You should have known me better,” persisted Fuller stubbornly. “I gave my
promise, and I kept it.”

“I am sure you did.” Latimer extended his hand. “Forgive me Alan.”

The other gripped it. “Of course. A vague suspicion such as you have entertained
won’t spoil our friendship. And yet, Dick,” he added, when they had both cooled
down, “I am not exactly surprised, now I think over Bakche’s last words.”

“Bakche, the Indian? Has he been to see you?”

“Yesterday. He came as a client, and confessed much of what we already know.”

“Then my sixth sense?——”

“Oh, hang your sixth sense. We agreed that it was right when I related Mrs.
Verwin’s story. Bakche’s yarn is merely corroborative. He did find the history
of the peacock in some family papers, and did come to look up Belstone village
to see if he could get the peacock and find the treasure, and yesterday he came
to me to ask if I would engineer the job.”

“Hum! You refused, I expect.”

“I should jolly well think so, Dicky. Bakche claims the treasure, as he says
that the Begum of Kam had no right to give it away. He wants to find the
assassin of Grison, and recover the bird and read the riddle.”

“Does he know that Sorley is the culprit?”

“He didn’t yesterday, whatever he knows now. I declined to receive him as a
client saying that I was working for Marie, and intended to give her the
treasure when it was discovered.”

“Will it ever be discovered?” questioned Latimer skeptically. Alan sighed. “Lord
knows! I have been trying my hardest to read some meaning into the sketch I
made, but so far I have failed.”

“We’ll have a look at it together,” said Dick encouragingly, “my sixth sense may
help you where others have not been able to arrive at any conclusion. I owe you
that much for having suspected you had broken faith with me, even for a moment,”
and Dick looked very repentant. “Oh, that’s all right, old man,” said Alan
heartily “seeing that I love Marie so much it was natural you should credit me
with trying to spare her pain by getting her uncle saved. But I thought it was
best to let the law take its course, as in any case if he was saved now, he
would only be discovered and arrested later on.”

“I suppose you and Bakche are enemies now?”

“He gave me to understand that he would do his best to get the better of me,”
remarked Fuller a trifle dryly, “and then like a fool, he gave me a hint as to
who knew the truth.”

“I don’t think I should take that hint coming from such a quarter,” said Dick
reflectively, “who knows the truth according to Bakche?”

“Jotty!”

“H’m. He may be right after all, although it is odd he should give you a chance
to outrun him in this way. I always did think that Jotty knew more than was good
for him. Of course he gave Sorley warning.”

“Of course,” assented Fuller quickly; “only Jotty could have been the blue-eyed,
fair-haired lad, who called to see the man. He disappeared from Thimble Square,
as Bakche told me, the day before yesterday, so I expect he saw the news about
the peacock in that paper, and bolted to warn Sorley.”

“But why should he do that?” asked Latimer with a puzzled air; “he evidently
told Miss Grison—guessing the fact from the drawing you showed him—that Sorley
had the bird. And on account of that, Miss Grison related what she did to the
interviewer. But I can’t understand why Jotty having brought about the trouble,
should try to save Sorley from it.”

Alan shook his head. “It is impossible to say, unless we can get hold of the boy
again and make him speak out. He may return to Miss Grison——”

“No,” said Dick decisively, “he won’t. She has done her best to get Sorley into
trouble, and won’t thank Jotty for giving him warning. I wonder where he has
gone?”

“Jotty?”

“And Sorley; both of them. Moon has left a detective at The Monastery on the
off-chance that Miss Inderwick’s uncle may return. But I don’t think he will.
Probably he has taken those jewels of his own, you spoke of, and has left the
country.”

“It looks as though he were guilty,” observed Alan with a groan. “It does,”
assented Latimer quickly; “but it is just as well that he has got away, and so
avoided arrest and trial, and probably hanging. I don’t expect you’ll set eyes
on him again or on Jotty either, as maybe he has taken the lad with him.”

“Why should he do that?”

“Jotty—as I always suspected—knows too much, and Sorley wants to get him out of
the way.”

“It is too late,” replied Fuller doubtfully. “Jotty has given us the letter, and
has told us enough to hang Sorley unless the man has a very good defence.
Probably he hasn’t any, else he would have stood his ground. Oh, my poor Marie,
how dreadful it is for you to have a criminal for an uncle.”

Dick patted Alan’s shoulder. “See here, old son,” he remarked with rough
sympathy, “I was annoyed when I heard that the man had bolted. Now I am very
glad for your sake. As I said you won’t hear of Sorley again. So go to work and
solve the riddle of the peacock; marry Marie and tell Bakche he can go back to
India with his tail between his legs.”

“But Sorley has probably taken the bird with him.”

“What does that matter? You have the drawing, and can solve the riddle from
that, as you have always expected to do. The mystery of Grison’s death is an
open secret now, Alan, my boy, so let the past bury itself, and look forward to
your marriage with the girl, and possession of the treasure.”

Fuller nodded in an absent-minded way, but did not reply. Before he could make
up his mind what to say, there came a knock at the door, and Seymour, who was
the solicitor’s one and only clerk, appeared with the intelligence that a lady
wished to see his employer. Thinking that this was a client, Latimer moved into
the outer office, only to come face to face with Marie. The girl looked ill, and
all the bright color of her face had faded to a dull white, while there were
dark circles under her eyes. “Miss Inderwick,” cried Dick in amazement, and, on
hearing the name, Alan appeared at the door with a look of equal astonishment.
The last thing in the world expected by either man was the visit to London of
Marie. “My dear girl, what are you doing here?” questioned Alan in tones of
alarm when he saw her pale face and anxious eyes. “Come in, Dick, close the
door,” and shortly the three were in the private office, and Seymour had
received orders to admit no one. “I had to come up, Alan,” said Marie, clinging
to his sleeve. “Oh, my dear, it is dreadful. Last night a policeman came with
others, and they say that Uncle Ran murdered Mr. Grison. But it’s not true, I am
sure it is not true,” and Marie burst into tears. “I can’t say if it is or not,
dear,” replied Alan uneasily, and kneeling by the side of the chair she dropped
into. “But—but Mr. Sorley has not been arrested has he?”

“No,” wailed Marie, “and that is what makes me so afraid. Some boy came in the
afternoon, and Uncle Ran went away on the motor bicycle, after giving me twenty
pounds and saying that he would not return for a few days. The boy left the
house also; I suppose so, although neither I nor Henny nor Granny nor Jenny saw
him go. If Uncle Ran were innocent he wouldn’t run away, I’m sure. Oh, Alan,
what is to be done? I can’t stay in the house, and as I had the money I came up
to ask your advice.”

“Dear,” said Fuller, placing his arm around her waist tenderly, “the best thing
for you to do is to return to The Monastery and wait.”

“But I’m all by myself Alan, and that horrid detective person is staying in the
house. I can’t stop on there alone.”

“The girls and their grandmother are there, darling.”

“Oh, but what use are they. I want you,” she leaned her head on his shoulder,
weeping profusely. “But I can’t come and stop in The Monastery while your uncle
is away, my dearest girl,” cried Alan much distressed; “people would talk.
Suppose you go and stay with my mother for a time.”

“But if I did I should have to tell her the truth,” wept Marie; “and how can I
say that Uncle Ran did what he didn’t do.”

“It has to come out sooner or later, Miss Inderwick,” remarked Dick in a voice
full of regret, for the girl’s tears made him feel ashamed of having brought
about the catastrophe. “What has to come out?”

“The fact that Mr. Sorley murdered——”

Marie sprang to her feet and the color flew to her wan cheeks. “I don’t believe
it; I don’t, I don’t, I don’t,” she said almost fiercely. “Uncle Ran has his
faults, and never did care much for me, besides using my income and being nasty
to Alan because he loved me. But he would never kill anyone, I am sure, Mr.
Latimer. What Miss Grison says in that paper is a lie.”

“Oh,” cried Fuller quickly, “you saw that paper?”

“Yes; _The Latest News!_ That boy brought it to Uncle Ran, for I saw him give it
through the window of the library while I was walking on the terrace. Uncle Ran
left it behind in his hurry, and——”

“He left in a hurry?” asked Dick suddenly. “Yes. He told me that he had received
bad news and would be away for a time and that I was to use the money—the twenty
pounds I mean—to keep things going.”

“Did he say anything about returning?”

“No. He was in such a hurry that he had no time to say much. And then very late
at night there was a ring at the door, and Henny went down to find a man with
another man who said they had come to arrest Uncle Ran for murder. I had to get
up and answer questions, and then one man went away while the other stayed. He’s
at The Monastery now,” cried Marie with a fresh burst of tears, “and I haven’t
been in bed all night. Henny made me lie down for a time this morning, and then
I came up by the midday train to see you, Alan. Oh, what does it all mean?”

Alan glanced at his friend, for the situation was very painful. He opened his
mouth to speak, but could not, while Marie looked at him so appealingly. Dick,
more hardened to the world, and not being in love, solved the question, as to
frank speech or silence. “Miss Inderwick,” he said bluntly, “believe me I am
very sorry for you in every way, but it is just as well that you should know the
truth. What Miss Grison says in that interview is true. The holder of the
peacock is the person who murdered Grison for its possession.”

“But not Uncle Ran, not Uncle Ran!” she pleaded anxiously. “I fear so,” said
Latimer turning away his head; “he has the peacock.”

“It’s not true, it’s not true, Alan——”

“I fear it is, Marie,” said the young man sadly. “I saw the peacock myself in
your uncle’s hands when I was down at Belstone for Christmas.”

“Oh! and you never told me.”

“I did not wish you to learn the truth, and tried to keep it from you. But since
the matter has been made public, you have become acquainted with what has
happened, and the flight of Mr. Sorley seems to suggest a guilty conscience. I
hope he is innocent, but——”

“He _is_ innocent,” interrupted Marie with the tears streaming down her face;
“nothing will ever make me believe that Uncle Ran murdered anyone. How did he
account for possession of the peacock?”

“He declared that Miss Grison must have left it in the cupboard where it had
been stored twenty years ago.”

“On that occasion when she came and walked all over the house; when we found her
sitting in the library?”

“Yes.”

“Well then,” said Marie triumphantly, “Uncle Ran is innocent, and Miss Grison is
a wicked woman to say that whosoever holds the peacock murdered her brother,
since she had herself——”

“But, Miss Inderwick,” broke in Dick, “we cannot be sure if Mr. Sorley’s
explanation is a true one.”

“It is; I am sure it is. But what does Miss Grison say?”

“We have not questioned her yet.”

“Then I shall question her,” cried Marie, starting to her feet with a very
determined air, “she shall confess to me that she brought the peacock to The
Monastery so as to get Uncle Ran into trouble. She always hated him, and you
heard yourself, Alan, what she said on that day. She is mad, she is mad. Uncle
Ran said as much, and now I quite believe him.”

“Dear Marie,” said Fuller, taking her hand, “let us hope for the best. You may
be certain that for your sake I shall do my best to prove your uncle’s
innocence. But there is no doubt that the evidence against him is very strong,
and his flight seems to prove that the charge is true.”

“I don’t believe it,” said Miss Inderwick obstinately, and sitting down again to
tap a vexed foot on the ground. “Uncle Ran will come back again with an
explanation. I’m sure he will.”

“Let us hope so,” murmured Latimer skeptically; “but I doubt it.”

“As to the evidence against him—what is it, Alan?”

He told her, relating Jotty’s discovery of the letter, and showed her a copy of
the same, which he had taken before Dick passed on the original to Inspector
Moon. “So you see, Marie,” he ended, when she was in full possession of the
painful facts, “that it seems almost certain——”

“I don’t care what it seems,” interrupted Marie in her wilful feminine way,
“Uncle Ran never murdered that wretched Grison.”

“Then why didn’t he remain and say so?” asked Dick sharply. “He will explain
that when he returns,” she retorted in a lofty tone. “In the meantime we must
learn the truth.”

“We know the truth,” Latimer replied. Marie stamped. “How horrid of you to take
it for granted that Uncle Ran killed this man. I say he didn’t, and nothing you
say, or Alan says, will convince me that he did.”

“I say nothing,” put in Fuller quickly; “things look black against Mr. Sorley,
but I wish to give him the benefit of the doubt.”

Marie flew at him and threw her arms round his neck. “Bless you, Alan, for the
words you have spoken. I am not very fond of Uncle Ran as you know, but I am
sure he is innocent and you must try and prove his innocence.”

“I shall do my best, darling, if you will leave the matter in my hands and
return to Belstone.”

“No, Alan don’t ask me to. I want to go down to Rotherhithe.”

“What for?” asked Dick surprised. Marie looked at him disdainfully, for she
gathered very plainly that he was not on her side. “To ask questions of that
woman who keeps the house where Mr. Grison was murdered.”

“Mother Slaig? Oh, my dear Miss Inderwick you can’t go and see her. She is a
virago, and her house is most disreputable. Besides she cannot help you, as she
gave her evidence at the inquest——”

“And didn’t accuse Uncle Ran at all,” interrupted Marie. “I shall get at the
truth if I see her.”

“Marie,” said Alan quickly, “you can’t go down to Rotherhithe.”

“I can and I shall,” cried Miss Inderwick with another stamp, and looked like a
small goddess of war. “Uncle Ran shan’t be hanged for what he never did, if I
can help it.”

“So long as he keeps away he cannot be caught to be hanged,” said Alan in a
pacific manner, for it was necessary to deal in a wary manner with the
infuriated girl. “Meanwhile I shall look into the matter and do my best to clear
his character. If you go to see Mother Slaig, you may prevent Mr. Sorley’s
innocence from being proved.”

“But I want to help,” cried Marie, weeping again; “he is my uncle.”

“You shall help,” said Alan, taking her in his arms, “when I know in what way
you can aid us. Marie, doesn’t everyone in the village know about the accusation
of your uncle, and that a detective is in the house?”

“Yes. It’s horrid. Everyone is talking about it.”

“Then you can have no hesitation in going to my mother and father and in laying
the true facts of the case before them. My mother will surely ask you to stay at
the vicarage, so remain there while I look into the matter, dearest. Believe me
it is the best course to take.”

“Then I shall do what you want me to do. But tell me, Alan, when it is necessary
for me to come into the matter. I must have a hand in proving the innocence of
Uncle Ran.”

“I promise you, that as soon as I require your aid I shall ask for it.”

Satisfied with this promise, Marie dried her tears, and then asked Alan to get
her something to eat, as she was very hungry, and it was now close on five
o’clock. Her lover put on his hat and coat and took her out to a restaurant near
at hand, where she made a fairly good meal. Dick came with them, as he did not
wish Marie to go away with the impression that he was hostile to the accused
man. “Believe me, Miss Inderwick,” he said when they were at the table, “no one
will be more pleased to hear of your uncle’s innocence than I shall be.”

“You believe that he is guilty?”

“Well, the facts are against him, but I shall adopt Alan’s line and give him the
benefit of the doubt. When we face Miss Grison she may exonerate him. It is not
likely, since she hates him for some reason, but——”

“She won’t, she won’t; and I don’t care if she doesn’t, Mr. Latimer. In some
other way we must save Uncle Ran. Will you see her?”

“This very evening,” promised Dick earnestly. “And so shall I,” said Alan
suddenly. “Hope for the best, darling.”

“Yes,” sobbed Marie, who felt better after her meal, but still was unable to
restrain her tears, for the poor girl was greatly shaken, “but is it not
terrible, Alan?”

“Very, my dear. But you must be a heroine and keep up, for your uncle’s sake.
Now we must take a taxi to Victoria, and you can catch the something after six
train to Lewes. There is one about this time, I know. Have you enough money to
take a fly to Belstone, dear. No, don’t take a fly. On second thoughts I shall
wire to my father to send his trap to meet you; that will be best.”

“But the trouble, Alan,” faltered the girl as he handed her into the taxi. “It’s
no trouble. Dick, will you come, or——”

“I am coming of course,” said Dick, bestowing his burly form in the taxi. “I
don’t want Miss Inderwick to go away with the idea that I’m a beast.”

“I’m sure I never said so,” sighed Marie, “and if I was rude, Mr. Latimer, you
must put it down to my being so upset.”

“My dear young lady, you are right to stand up for your uncle, and I have
nothing but praise for your conduct. With all my heart I trust that he will
return again to face the accusation and prove his innocence.”

“Thank you,” replied Marie softly, and gave him her hand. Then she sat close to
her lover, and the three spoke very little until the station was reached. Here
Alan sent a telegram to his father, and placed the girl in the train. He bought
her a first-class ticket, and asked the guard to look after her comfort, as he
did not like the idea of such an unsophisticated damsel travelling all alone.
Her freak of coming to London so unexpectedly, though natural enough under the
circumstances, caused him great anxiety, and he heaved a sigh of relief when the
train steamed out of the station. Marie would be looked after by the guard as
far as Lewes, and then the Rev. John Fuller would meet her and take the stray
lamb to the vicarage, where his wife would console her. Dick laughed when he
heard his worried friend sigh so thankfully. “All’s well that ends well, my
son,” he said, clapping the young man on the back, “and Miss Inderwick has
behaved like a heroine.”

“I daresay; but I hope she won’t come to London again, as she is not used to
being by herself, and may get into trouble.”

“She certainly will,” said Dick grimly, “if she goes to see Mother Slaig in that
Rotherhithe slum.”

“Oh, I shall see to it that she does not go. Well, I am tired, Dick. Are you
coming home, or have you business to attend to?”

“I’m coming with you,” responded the big man, affectionately, taking out his
pipe, as the presence of Marie had hitherto prevented his indulging in a smoke,
and he felt the need of the soothing weed. “I have nothing to do this
evening—nothing particular that is—so I may as well have a few quiet hours at
home, and talk this case over with you.”

“There’s nothing to talk about.”

“Well, I don’t know. It seems to me that the Indian is mixed up in the business
somehow. From what you describe I believe that he guessed Baldwin Grison had the
peacock.”

“I thought so myself, but then if he had killed the man and got the peacock he
wouldn’t have sent it to Sorley.”

On the way to Fleet Street and Barker’s Inn they went over the same old ground,
but without coming to any definite conclusion. Besides the strain of the last
few days was telling on both men, and they felt very weary. It was with a sigh
of relief that they arrived at the dark cobblestone court and mounted the
crooked staircase. Alan used his latchkey and admitted both himself and Dick
into their chambers. When they entered the sitting-room they received a surprise
and a shock. In a chair by the fire sat a figure, and in a moment he was
recognized in spite of his shabby looks. “Mr. Sorley!” cried Alan and Dick in a
breath. CHAPTER XIV FACE TO FACE

It was indeed Mr. Randolph Vernon Sorley who spread out his hands to the fire in
a crouching attitude, but woefully changed from the debonair and juvenile
gentleman of former days. His aggressively shabby overcoat and worn boots showed
that he had some idea of disguising himself, since he had both money and clothes
at his command to dress better. He was unshaven, his cheeks and chin being
covered with a silvery stubble, and in his sunken eyes there lurked a hunted
look. The man looked both broken up and broken down, and had aged at least
twenty years since Alan had last set eyes on him. The terror he displayed when
the young man entered the room showed how apprehensive he was of being arrested
by the police. “Oh, it’s you, Alan,” he gasped with a sigh of relief, when the
newcomers, in sheer surprise, called out his name. “I’m glad it’s only you and
your friend.”

“I am Fuller’s friend,” remarked Latimer with emphasis, “but not yours.”

“Ah!” Sorley shivered and cringed fearfully, “you’re against me too. Am I to
find an enemy in you also, Alan?”

“No,” said the young man briefly; “I never kick a man when he is down.”

“I’m glad to hear that, Alan, for I am very down indeed. A few days ago and I
could hold up my head with the best; now I am hunted for a crime. “If you are
guilty——”

“I swear I am not,” interrupted Sorley, his voice rising to a scream, “on my
soul I swear to both of you that I am not.”

“Then why did you run away?” asked Dick. “Because, after reading the newspaper
interview with that vile woman, I saw that appearances were against me. I fled
to gain time.”

“Time for what, Mr. Sorley?”

“To prepare a defence.”

“Oh,” said Latimer doubtfully and staring at the limp figure of the fugitive,
“then you have a defence.”

“Yes—that is, I can—I can—oh, Alan,” wailed Sorley piteously, “in heaven’s name
give me some wine or brandy. I have scarcely touched food since I left Belstone,
and I am that weak I can scarcely speak. Give me drink and food, then we can
talk.”

Fuller nodded silently, and went to a cupboard, whence he brought out a loaf of
bread, some butter, and a jar of _pâté de foie gras_, which had been given to
Dick by a friend, together with a bottle of good port wine. The hunted man, who
had sought the sanctuary of their hearthstone, staggered to the table and began
to eat and drink with avidity. Both men pitied the unfortunate creature, whose
arrogance had been thus laid low. Whether he was innocent or guilty they could
not say on what evidence they possessed; but it seemed terrible that a gentleman
should be brought to such a sordid pass. While Sorley methodically filled
himself with food, there was silence for quite a long time. Alan finally broke
it. “Why did you come here?” he asked abruptly. “I want you to help me,” mumbled
Sorley hastily. “How can I help you, man? You know that there is a warrant out
for your arrest, so if either Latimer or I assist you to escape we shall be
compounding a felony.”

“I never asked for your assistance to escape,” retorted Sorley tartly, and in a
stronger tone, for the food and drink had put life into him. “Then why did you
come here?” asked Alan again, and stiffening, as the old arrogance was
perceptible in the man’s tone. “I have told you; I want help.”

“What sort of help?”

“To prove my innocence.”

“How can I, or how can Latimer? We know nothing.”

“I think you know a great deal,” returned the other acidly, and shuffled to the
fire again, as the night was chilly and he required warmth; “from what Jotty
told me, you brought about my arrest.”

“Pardon me, Mr. Sorley,” struck in Dick before his friend could speak, “but I am
the one who did that. Since you have seen Jotty you must know that he found the
letter which you wrote making an appointment with Grison on the very night and
about the very time when the poor devil was killed. He showed that letter to us,
and Alan was all in favor of leaving the matter alone, since he has some
sympathy for you as the uncle of Miss Inderwick. But I declined to compound a
felony, and I went to Inspector Moon to explain that you were the criminal.”

“I am not the criminal,” cried Sorley furiously. “I did not murder the man. As
to Jotty showing you my letter——”

“Then you admit the letter?” demanded Dick swiftly. “Certainly I do. Why should
I not? But the boy never told me that he had acted in such a Judas way. He came
down to see me with a copy of _The Latest News_ in his pocket, and when I read
the interview I went away on the impulse of the moment, recognizing how
dangerous was my position.”

“Why did the boy go to warn you?”

“Because he wanted money. Didn’t he get money for giving up that letter?”

“Yes,” answered Alan readily; “two pounds.”

“He received five from me for bringing down the newspaper,” said Sorley in a
hasty tone, “he sold me to you, and later he sold you to me. You expected to
have me arrested, but the boy’s warning enabled me to escape. It is all a
question of money. Jotty, as I knew and Grison knew, would sell his soul for
gold.”

“Where is the boy now?” asked Dick suddenly, and watching Sorley through half-
closed eyes. “I don’t know. He got his price and left The Monastery, shortly
before I went away on my motor bicycle. He may have gone back to Miss Grison for
all I know.”

“I don’t think that is likely,” said Alan dryly, “since she hates you, and will
not be pleased if she finds out—as she must have done by this time—that Jotty
has thwarted her revenge.”

“There you are, there you are,” cried Sorley, greatly excited and gesticulating
vehemently, “that beastly woman hates me. It is she who has got me into this
trouble. What did I tell you, Alan, what did I tell you? That she had some
reason for bringing back the peacock and leaving it in its old place. Now you
see the reason; she wished to implicate me in the death of her infernal
brother.”

“Did she really bring back the peacock?” was Dick’s question. “Yes, she did; I
swear that she must have brought it back on the day she came unexpectedly to The
Monastery and walked—as I learned later—all over the house. It’s a trap—a trap I
tell you. I am innocent; oh yes, I am innocent as a child unborn, but she is
doing her best to put a rope round my neck. What are her words in the interview.
‘Find the peacock and you find the assassin of my brother!’ Those are her words,
because she knew that I had the bird, and that the mere possession could hang
me. Oh, the devil, the cruel vampire that she is!” and he trembled with rage and
terror. “But there is not only the peacock to be considered, Mr. Sorley,” put in
Latimer, struck by the vehemence of this defence, and wondering if the man was
really innocent after all. “The letter——”

“I wrote the letter,” admitted Sorley swiftly, “and—but one moment Mr. Latimer,
you had better present me with a full statement of the evidence upon which you
and the police base your charges against me. Then I shall be able to defend
myself.”

“I hope so, sincerely,” murmured Alan, who sat back in his chair with folded
arms, and allowed Dick to conduct the conversation. The journalist wasted no
time in preliminary explanations, but bluntly set forth the whole story from the
time he had entered that very room in November to report the murder, down to the
moment when Marie departed from the Victoria station for Belstone _via_ Lewes.
Sorley still crouching and still haggard in looks, though stronger in voice,
listened intently, but did not interrupt. Alan noticed, however, that at certain
portions of the recital he trembled, probably from overstrained nerves. When
Dick ended, and relighted his pipe, the old man nodded gravely. “I am indeed in
a dangerous position,” he said, striving to steady a voice that would quiver
with ill-concealed alarm, “all the same I am entirely innocent. I swear to it.”

“A judge and jury will not believe in such swearing without proof,” said Fuller,
shaking his head. “Proof! Proof! What proof can I give? Only Louisa Grison can
prove that the peacock was brought to The Monastery without my knowledge, and
she hates me too greatly to confess as much. Do you think,” cried Sorley
bitterly, “that she will spoil the trap she has set? Not she. I know her
venomous nature too well.”

“There’s the letter, you know,” Dick reminded him. “Yes! The letter. I don’t
deny the letter, which that Judas of a boy showed to you. He betrayed me——”

“And he saved you,” interpolated Alan quickly. “For money in both cases,”
sneered the other, “if the truth is to be found that lad knows it. If so, he is
aware that I am guiltless, and thus he may have come to warn me because his
conscience smote him.”

“I scarcely think that Jotty is sufficiently evolved to possess a conscience,”
said Latimer dryly; “he helped you for the five pounds, as he betrayed you for
the two pounds. It is all a question of money. But since you insist so strongly
upon your innocence, Mr. Sorley, I should like to hear on what grounds you do
so.”

“On the grounds that Miss Grison brought the bird to——”

“Yes, yes; but the letter; your presence at Rotherhithe on the night and about
the time the crime was committed?” put in Alan hastily, for he felt that they
were losing time. The old man was silent for a few moments, and his fingers
played in a senile manner on his unshaven chin. Then he appeared to gain a
sudden strength from the steady looks of his companions, and spoke with some
dignity and considerable strength. “I make an admission to you both,” he said in
a surprisingly clear tone. “I knew that Grison had the peacock.”

“Oh!” said the listeners simultaneously, and looked at one another, wondering if
Sorley was about to confess his guilt. The man saw this and smiled in a sardonic
manner. “If I were what you suppose me to be,” he said coldly, “I should
scarcely admit as much; but being innocent, I can do so. For many years I
believed that Louisa Grison had stolen the peacock out of revenge, because I
dismissed her brother.” Alan nodded at this point, as he had heard the woman
acknowledge as much, but did not interrupt. “It was twelve months ago when I
became aware that Grison possessed it. He wrote me a letter saying that he could
not live long, and was ready to give up the peacock on condition that I came to
hear on what terms he was prepared to surrender it. I went up to town and to
Rotherhithe to that dreadful woman’s house.”

“Mother Slaig’s, I suppose. Did you ride your motor bicycle?”

“No, I did not have it twelve months ago,” said Sorley quickly. “I went up and
found Grison better than I expected. He had rallied since writing to me, and
refused when we met, to give up the peacock. I departed, and later—in a few
weeks, went up again, when I saw that he was very sick indeed with his
profligate ways. He said that if I would promise to give his sister half of the
treasure when it was discovered, he would hand me back the peacock. I refused,
as I had no right to dispose of Marie’s property in that way.”

Alan smiled grimly when he remembered how this scrupulous man had disposed of
furniture which belonged to the niece whose goods he was supposed to safeguard.
However he did not make any remark on this point, but asked a pertinent
question: “Had Grison discovered the secret?”

“No; he had tried to, but had failed, as everyone else has done up to the
present,” said Sorley, continuing his narrative with an effort, for he appeared
to be very weary. “When I refused to give up half the treasure he declined to
restore the golden bird. Up till November last I continued to call on him and
urge him to return what his sister had stolen, and it was because of my frequent
visits that I purchased the motor bicycle.”

“Ah,” said Dick, who was nursing his chin, “you didn’t want your visits to be
known to the railway authorities.”

“You are quite wrong, Mr. Latimer. If I chose to go up to town every now and
then that was no business of anyone. Had I contemplated murder I might indeed
have shirked giving color to my doings by travelling so often by train. But I
bought the bicycle to save expense in one way, and because I found it easier to
slip out of the house and up to town in this style.”

“Hum!” murmured Latimer, to whom the explanation sounded weak, “we’ll admit so
much for the time being. Well, sir?”

“Well,” said Sorley taking no notice of the implied doubt. “I went up and down
constantly. Sometimes Grison when sick would agree to give up the peacock
without terms; then, when well, he would refuse to surrender it on any
condition. Also sometimes he wanted half the treasure for his sister, since—as
he put it—she had stuck by him in his fall. Finally, so as to get the bird and
try to unravel the secret I compromised by offering to give a third of the
jewels to Louisa.”

“You had no right to promise that without submitting the proposition to Marie,”
said Alan. “I didn’t want Marie to know anything about the business until it was
entirely settled and the jewels were in our possession,” said Sorley doggedly,
“she never dreamed that I went so frequently to London, for I was often by
myself for days, and had my meals alone. When I got the motor bicycle she and
the other women more than ever were unable to learn about my movements. Things
went on in this way until November last, and I could do nothing with Grison, who
was as obstinate as a mule. He then wrote me saying that he wanted to see me on
the evening of the thirteenth November, and this time would really make terms. I
replied that I would be there at eight o’clock.”

“Seven o’clock,” corrected Alan quickly. “Thank you; it was seven, but my memory
is not so good as it was, my boy. I went up on my bicycle and saw Grison at the
appointed time at Mother Slaig’s. He was as difficult to manage as ever, and I
came away about eight, quite angry at my constant failures to get what I
desired. I rode back during the night and gained The Monastery as usual. Next
day, or rather the day after, I heard through the medium of the newspapers about
the murder. Having regard to the time and place and my presence on the spot I
saw in what danger I stood, so I held my peace. In one way I fancied that I
could not be taxed with the commission of the crime, since I had not the
peacock. Then I found it in its old place after the unexpected visit of Miss
Grison, and guessed that she had brought it. I guessed also—since I knew that
her brother had possessed it—she was setting a trap of some sort. Had I been
wise,” he looked frankly at the young men, “I should have told the police at
once about the matter; but I saw then, as I see now—and as you, Mr. Latimer,
have so plainly set before me that everything was in favor of my guilt.”

Dick nodded and pulled his mustache meditatively. “You didn’t improve matter by
bolting when Jotty warned you,” he remarked pointedly. “I lost my nerve,” gasped
the other man, his pale face becoming still more pale, “and on the impulse of
the moment I fled.”

“Why did you fly here?” asked Alan, irritated by the problem presented to him as
to letting the man go, or handing him over to Inspector Moon. “I have told you
twice, my boy; I wish you to help me. Long ago I told you that I believed Louisa
Grison was laying a trap for me with that peacock. Now you can see that I was
right, and your evidence that I spoke as I did, will help me at the trial.”

“At the trial.” Dick looked swiftly at the fugitive. “Then you——”

“Yes; I intend to give myself up.” Sorley rose and stood up lean and haggard,
yet with something of his old self-assertion, “but before doing so I wish you
both to come with me to Thimble Square and see Miss Grison.”

“Why?” demanded Fuller, jumping up with an inquiring look. “I desire to face her
in your presence, and accuse her of having brought the peacock down to The
Monastery to get me into trouble.”

“But how could she get it from her brother, when Jotty said that he saw it on
the night of the murder in Grison’s possession?”

“I can’t explain,” said Sorley with a vexed air, “and I am sure that Louisa
hates me too much to do so. She may have induced him to give it back, lest he
should return it to me; she knew of my visits.”

“Did she know of your visits?”

“She must have. Baldwin doubtless told her, for he never could keep his own
counsel, being as weak as water. And if he did hold his peace, I am very sure
that Jotty did not. The boy saw me frequently.”

“Yes,” said Alan reflectively, “he told us that he did, and described you.”

Sorley smiled bitterly and revengefully. “The boy seems to have given me away
thoroughly. Had he come to me I could have paid him more than two pounds, and
would have done so to close his mouth and regain that letter.”

“It is just as well that Jotty did speak out, and has placed you in your present
position,” said Latimer coldly, “for if Miss Grison did lay the trap you speak
of, the exposure would only have come about in another way.’

“I daresay you are right,” sighed the old man, putting on a shabby cap which
also formed a portion of his disguise, “and after all, Jotty, by coming down to
warn me, gave me a chance of escape.”

“Hum!” said Alan after a pause, “your flight only lent color to the suspicions
against you, on the evidence we gave to Moon. It is just probable since Jotty is
in league with Miss Grison—for I believe the brat is—that the warning was
arranged so that you should incriminate yourself.”

“I shall do so no longer,” said Sorley opening the door, “come both of you with
me. You need not fear that I shall try to escape as I quite intend to give
myself up, knowing my complete innocence. If you doubt me take each of you an
arm.”

“Oh, we’ll trust you,” said Latimer with a shrug, much to Alan’s relief. All the
same Dick intended to keep a sharp eye on the man, since the talk might be
mainly for effect, and there was no knowing if an escape might not be attempted.
And when the trio got outside, it proved to be a night very propitious to a
fugitive, since an unexpected fog had rolled down on the city. London was
enveloped in a dense gray smoking cloud chilly and clammy, and intensely
disagreeable. Alan and his friend had, after all, to take Sorley’s arms to guide
him out of the court and through the rusty iron gates, and he went along so
passively between them that Latimer became ashamed of his suspicions, since the
old man appeared to be acting very straightforwardly. It was not easy even for
those who knew the neighborhood, to get out of the labyrinth surrounding Barkers
Inn, for the dense fog made the place as unfamiliar as the desert of Sahara. But
in some way they managed to reach Chancery Lane, and turned up towards Oxford
Street on their way to Thimble Square in Bloomsbury. So thick was the fog that
all traffic had ceased, although it was still early in the evening, so the three
men, by keeping close to the houses, had to literally feel their way like the
blind to their destination. It was a long time before they managed to strike the
Square, and longer still before they found the house. But in the end they
crossed the threshold, and told the Swiss waiter, who opened the door that they
wished to see Miss Grison. As the man was going upstairs, Latimer called him
back to press a shilling into his palm. “Where is Alonzo?” he asked under his
breath. The waiter threw up his hands and explained that the boy had gone away
and had not returned, and madame was greatly vexed by his absence. “Hum!” said
Dick to himself when the waiter finally departed to announce their arrival,
“Jotty seems to have engineered Sorley’s escape on his own account, and fears
lest his mistress should turn crusty.”

Shortly the Swiss came back and conducted them up the stairs and into the
private room of Miss Grison. Looking more acid than ever she stood by the
fireplace to receive them, but smiled in a wintry fashion when the two young
men—who had sent up their names—entered. But they had—for obvious
reasons—omitted to inform her that they brought a companion with them, and Miss
Grison’s face grew hard and malignant, when she saw Sorley steal in behind them.
Her shallow blue eyes flashed like sapphires, and if looks could have killed her
enemy, Sorley would have fallen dead that very instant. Hate was written all
over that wasted face. “How dare you bring that beast here?” she demanded
shrilly, yet—as Dick observed mechanically—lowered her voice lest those in the
near drawing-room should overhear, “he ruined my brother and murdered him.”

“It’s a lie,” said Sorley savagely, and glared fiercely at her. “Beast! beast!
it’s the truth, it’s the——” she stopped, and her hand went to her heart
suddenly, “My drops, my drops,” she staggered to the door, avoiding her enemy
even at the moment of pain. “Wait, wait,” she breathed hurriedly to Latimer,
“weak heart—drops—a moment a——” she almost reeled out of the room, seeking
medicine to recover her from the shock which Sorley’s presence had inflicted
upon her. “Is her heart weak?” asked Alan, turning to the man. “Not that I ever
heard of,” he retorted sharply, and wiping his face, “she was all right when at
Belstone twenty years ago. Perhaps it is weak now. I wish it would break and she
would fall dead.”

“You mustn’t say such things, Mr. Sorley,” said Dick frowning. “But I shall.
What would you say of a woman who ruined you?”

“She’s not ruined you yet,” remarked Alan, soothingly; “if you are innocent you
will be set free.”

“Oh, I shall be set free all right, even if I have to drink poison to rid myself
of my bonds,” said the old man, recklessly. “Oh, that woman, that woman, you
don’t know of what she is capable. Wait till she returns and hear the lies she
will tell. All is against me, and only she can prove that I did not take the
peacock from her brother. But I am innocent; I swear before heaven that I am
innocent.”

“Hush! Don’t make a row,” said Dick, who did not wish the house to be disturbed,
and for the next ten minutes both he and Alan were trying to reduce the excited
man to a quieter frame of mind. Miss Grison was absent quite that time, if not a
few moments longer, and when she returned her looks were much stronger and more
composed. “Why did you bring that man here?” she demanded again, and took up a
defiant position on the hearthrug. “I wish to ask you a question,” said Sorley
feebly, for his wrath had almost worn him out, and he felt that he was at the
mercy of his enemy. “_You_ ask me a question,” she echoed contemptuously, “the
police wish to ask you one or two, you—you criminal.”

“I—I—I am not a criminal,” panted the other, sitting down suddenly. “You are.
Inspector Moon has been to see me. He related how Mr. Latimer—and I thank Mr.
Latimer for doing so—gave him the letter you wrote to Baldwin which proves that
you were with him on that night. I know also what the police know, that you have
the peacock which you took from his body, you beast!”

“It’s a lie! a lie, Louisa, and you know it. It was you who brought the peacock
to The Monastery when you came down for the funeral.”

“Ha! is that so?” she said tauntingly; “and how are you going to prove I did
such a thing?”

“You don’t deny it, Miss Grison?” asked Alan, with some sharpness. “Yes, I do. I
deny it at once and with all truth. I stole the peacock to punish that brute who
ruined us, and I gave it to Baldwin. He had it in his possession when he was
murdered, and since he has it,” she pointed an accusing finger at Sorley, who
winced and wilted, “he is guilty.”

“You brought it to The Monastery to trap me,” said the man resolutely. “I did
not,” she retorted equally resolutely, and the two argued the question on and on
and on until Alan and Dick both felt their heads reeling. For almost an hour the
conversation continued, Latimer sometimes putting in a question, and sometimes
Alan suggesting an explanation. But every time, the result was that Miss Grison
refused to acknowledge that she had taken the peacock to Belstone. Then, while
they were in the full tide of talk, she rose unexpectedly, and pointed towards
the door. “Come in, come in,” she almost shouted, “this is the beast.”

Inspector Moon appeared, and behind him were two policemen in plain clothes.
CHAPTER XV THE BLACK BAG

Sorley shivered and shrank back when he saw the uniform of Inspector Moon and
the two men behind him. Miss Grison, with an exulting look on her hard face,
pointed to her prey, glorying in the way she had trapped him. And that it was a
trap, Fuller now truly believed, since the police had appeared at so opportune a
moment for the capture. “There he is,” cried the woman excitedly; “take him
away, the beast!”

Moon moved forward and laid a heavy hand on the shoulder of the wretched man,
who moaned and trembled at the fatal touch. “I arrest you, Randolph Sorley, in
the name of the King, for the murder of Baldwin Grison,” he said in unemotional
tones, and reciting the regulation formula; “anything you say now will be used
in evidence against you.”

“I am innocent, I am innocent,” was all that Sorley could say. “And upon my soul
I believe he is,” murmured Alan softly to Dick. “If so it is just as well to
have the whole matter threshed out in a proper manner,” rejoined the reporter.
“How did you come here, Mr. Inspector?”

Miss Grison replied before the officer could open his mouth. “I telephoned for
him,” she said sharply. “You thought that I left the room to take medicine, but
it was to send for the police.”

“Then you were not ill?” said Latimer taken aback. “No,” she answered coolly;
“it was all acting; didn’t I act well?”

“I told you she was a wicked woman,” moaned Sorley, who stood passively between
the two plain-clothes men. “Wicked!” repeated Miss Grison with scorn; “if I am
wicked, what are you?”

Inspector Moon made a sign that she should be silent, and explained his speedy
presence quietly. “Miss Grison telephoned to me at Rotherhithe,” he said; “and
as I happened to have business in the Bow Street police office my clerk repeated
the telephonic message to that place. I was thus enabled to drive here in a cab
with my men, in spite of the fog, although I must say that we drove very slowly.
However,” he looked at Sorley, “we are in excellent time. May I ask what you two
gentlemen are doing here?”

“We brought Mr. Sorley to see Miss Grison at his request,” said Latimer. “You
should have sent for me as this lady did,” rebuked Moon sharply. “There was no
need,” put in Alan. “Mr. Sorley intended to give himself up.”

Moon smiled derisively. “I doubt that, seeing how he ran away from his own house
at Belstone.”

“I did so on the impulse of the moment,” cried Sorley, drawing himself up with
some dignity; “but later I saw that my flight gave color to the charge against
me. As I am quite innocent, I intended to give myself up so that the matter
could be inquired into, and I do so now.”

“Because you can’t help yourself,” said Moon with a shrug; “come away, sir, at
once. I have a cab at the door.”

“Oh, I sha’n’t try to escape, for I am innocent,” persisted the old man;
“because I have the peacock it is supposed that I murdered Grison.”

“It is very good evidence, you know,” Moon assured him. “It was that woman, who
brought the peacock down to The Monastery.”

Miss Grison laughed scornfully. “I told you he would say that,” she said,
addressing Moon, “and I solemnly swear that I did no such thing.”

“You stole it from me over twenty years ago,” cried Sorley insistently. “I took
it, certainly,” admitted the woman coolly, “because you owed my brother money,
and it was necessary to hold something valuable belonging to you so that he
might be paid. You never paid, and preferred to get back your property, or
rather that of your niece, by crime.”

“It is wholly false.”

“Tell that to the judge and jury,” she sneered, “I warned you that you would be
punished for your iniquity, and now the time has come.”

“The time has not come,” said Sorley furiously; “you have involved me in
difficulties somehow, and I am trapped. But I believe that the Indian who lives
here has been used by you to bring about my disgrace. He also knew about the
peacock——

“Come! come,” interrupted Moon in a peremptory manner, “remember what you say
will be used in evidence against you. Better hold your tongue and come away at
once. I regret to say——” He stepped forward clinking handcuffs. “No,” almost
screamed Sorley, backing against the wall with a gesture of refusal, “there is
no need for that shame. I won’t run away; I intended to give myself up, indeed I
did, I did.”

“Put them on, put them on,” cried Miss Grison, clapping her hands with delight,
“he murdered Baldwin and deserves punishment.”

“I won’t run away, I won’t run away,” whimpered Sorley piteously. Alan, sorry
for the man, interfered. “Indeed I don’t think that there is any need to take
such a precaution, Mr. Inspector. He really came to me and Mr. Latimer this
evening to surrender himself to the law.”

Dick nodded. “I agree with Fuller,” he remarked, and Sorley cast a grateful look
in his direction, as Moon after a moment’s hesitation placed the handcuffs in
his pocket. “I won’t put them on in the house,” he said graciously, “so when we
go, no one will see that you have been arrested on so serious a charge. But in
the cab——”

“I don’t mind that,” said Sorley eagerly; “only spare me the shame of being seen
with them on by my fellow-creatures. Oh, dear me, and I am quite innocent,” he
maundered on in a senile way, “quite innocent. When——”

“Come,” said the inspector imperiously; “I don’t wish to use force.”

“I should drum him out of the house with the Rogue’s March,” said Miss Grison
laughing fiercely, “beast that you are!”

Sorley did not reply, for he was already tottering towards the door between the
two officers, and followed by the inspector. As he passed out of the room, he
turned and looked significantly at Alan, “The black bag, don’t forget the black
bag,” he said, and, as Moon touched him on the shoulder he went stumbling out of
sight. Strange to say no one attached much meaning to his last words, and Alan
himself was bewildered. “What the dickens does he mean?”

“Something bad, you may be sure,” retorted Miss Grison malignantly. “I think
Sorley is a better man than you admit him to be,” remarked the young man
indignantly. “Dick, where are you going?”

“I intend to follow Sorley and Moon,” answered Latimer, “come with me.”

“No,” said Fuller with a glance at the landlady, “I wish to ask Miss Grison a
few questions.”

“They won’t be answered,” cried Miss Grison exultingly, “my enemy has been
trapped, and there is nothing left for me to wish for.”

Latimer was so annoyed at the malignity of the woman, that he turned at the door
as her victim had done. “Let me remind you of an excellent proverb, Miss
Grison,” he said quietly: “there’s many a slip t’wixt the cup and the lip!” and
then he went out quietly. “There will be no slip except that of Sorley when he
is hanged,” said the woman savagely. “Now, you can go, Mr. Fuller, I have no
quarrel with you.”

“There is one on my part, however,” said Alan, taking a seat; “you have
disgraced Marie by this arrest of her uncle.”

“Oh, indeed. And you say that because you love her. Is the course of justice to
be stayed for the tears of a chit?”

“Marie is not a chit,” retorted the lover angrily. “Yes she is; yes she is,”
taunted Miss Grison in quite a schoolgirl manner. “I hate her, I hated her
mother, who made me a slave to her whims. I hate Sorley, and have paid him out.”

“Not yet.”

“What do you mean with your ‘not yet,’” asked Miss Grison contemptuously. “I
mean that he may prove his innocence at the trial.”

“He can’t; everything is against him.”

“So far I admit that. But some new evidence may turn up.”

“I don’t care what turns up,” said Miss Grison vehemently; “the man is a guilty
beast and must be punished. I hate him, oh, how I hate him!”

Fuller was about to ask why, when the door opened slightly and the brown haughty
face of Morad-Bakche peered in. “Pardon my intrusion,” he said in his best
English, “but the whole house is in commotion about a reported arrest. How are
you, Mr. Fuller.” He stepped into the room as he spoke. “Wait here,” said Miss
Grison to Alan imperiously. “I must explain to these people, as there is no need
to make bad worse. Sorley has ruined me before, and my brother with me. He will
ruin me now by coming here to be arrested, since many of my boarders will leave
the house.”

“Let me remind you, Miss Grison, that you are responsible for his arrest.”

“Because you and Mr. Latimer would have allowed him to escape,” she said in
angry tones. “Better that I should lose every boarder I have than let that beast
go free,” as the murmur in the near drawing-room increased. She opened the door
which Bakche had closed. “Wait here,” she said again to Alan, and vanished to
pacify the inmates of the establishment. Left alone with Morad-Bakche, the young
man made no remark, as he did not feel inclined to talk to the man. But he was
not permitted to be at peace, for the Indian advanced eagerly, his eyes
sparkling. “Has Mr. Sorley been arrested?” he asked swiftly and anxiously.
“Yes,” answered Fuller shortly. “On a charge of murder?”

“Yes!”

“How did he come here?”

“I think you had better ask these questions of Miss Grison.”

“I shall do so,” rejoined Bakche calmly, “when you are gone. But there is one
she may not be able to answer.”

“Probably!” Alan shrugged his shoulders with feigned indifference, guessing what
the question was, and not choosing to reply to it immediately. But Bakche was
not to be put off by a contemptuous manner. “Has Mr. Sorley given up the peacock
to the police?” he demanded. “I cannot say. If he has, the police will give it
back to me.”

“Why should it be given back to you?”

“Because it is the property of Miss Inderwick; and until her uncle is free I
intend to look after her interests.”

The other man sneered. “I can understand that.”

“If you do, there is no necessity for you to ask questions,” rejoined Alan
coolly. “You are no client of mine, Mr. Bakche.”

“It would be better for you if I were.”

“I fail to see that. You want the peacock, and I don’t intend that you should
have it, or the treasure either.”

“Both belong to me,” cried the Indian angrily. “I think not. And as our
interests are opposed, you can scarcely expect me to reply to your questions
further.”

“But if we join forces, we shall be stronger to learn the truth.”

“Possibly, but if the discovery of the truth—I suppose you mean in connection
with the whereabouts of the treasure—means your having half the jewels, I prefer
to work alone.” Fuller thought for a moment, then added slowly, “of course Miss
Inderwick may be willing to make terms with you regarding the sharing of the
gems on one condition?”

“What is that?” demanded Bakche eagerly, and with flashing eyes. “She believes
her uncle to be innocent, and I am half inclined to agree with her,
notwithstanding the weight of evidence against him. Now if you can prove his
innocence, and thus do a service to Miss Inderwick, why then——”

“But how can I prove his innocence?” asked Bakche in a puzzled manner. “I know
nothing about the murder.”

“I never supposed you did. However, the proving of Sorley’s innocence is your
affair, if you want to get a share in the jewels.”

Bakche took a turn up and down the room. “I may know more of this affair than
you think,” he said abruptly. “Probably you do since you say so. Well?”

“Well, if I get Mr. Sorley released can I take your word for——”

“Certainly you can take my word,” replied Fuller stiffly; “and my offer is such
a sporting one, that it is not worth while committing it to paper.”

Bakche nodded. “I have always found that an English gentleman keeps his word,
sir,” he said cordially, “so on those terms I shall hunt for the assassin of
Grison.”

“Don’t you then believe that Sorley is guilty?” asked Alan suddenly. “On those
terms I shall hunt for the assassin of Grison,” said Bakche once more. “I
decline to speak further, and——” he stopped short as Miss Grison re-entered the
room and moved towards the door. “We can talk further, Mr. Fuller, when you are
more at leisure,” was his final remark as he stole out and closed the door
swiftly behind him. “What is that?” asked Miss Grison with a searching look at
Alan. “Bakche wants the peacock and the jewels, as he says that they rightfully
belong to him. He wishes me to help him.”

“Will you do so?”

“No. They belong to Miss Inderwick.”

“And you intend to marry Miss Inderwick,” said the woman with a hard laugh;
“well you are wise. But Mr. Bakche is the rightful owner.”

“On what grounds?”

“The Begum’s jewels, which she gave George Inderwick were temple treasures and
should not have been parted with.”

“Hum!” said Alan meditatively. “I remember Bakche saying something about
priests. Is he one himself?”

“No,” answered the woman quietly, “but he is the rightful heir to the jewels, as
you can see from the snakes on his right arm.”

“I don’t see how that proves his ownership!”

“Many of the ornaments are in the form of snakes set with gems.”

“Still I don’t see,” persisted Fuller doubtfully. Miss Grison sat down
impatiently, as apparently the late excitement had affected her nerves. “I’m
sure I can’t explain further. Mr. Bakche declared that the jewels are sacred and
that he wants to get them back. The snake sign I mention is tattooed on his
right forearm twisting in spirals up from the wrist to the elbow. Ask him to
show it to you.”

“I don’t think it interests me,” said Fuller dryly. “Mr. Bakche assuredly shall
not get Marie’s property if I can prevent it.”

“I think the peacock prevents it,” said Miss Grison spitefully. “Until you guess
the riddle you can’t find the gems, and I hope you never will.’

“Why?”

“Because I hate Sorley, and I hate the girl, and the whole horrible lot,” she
cried furiously. “So you said before. This conversation is getting monotonous.”

“End it then; I don’t want you. But if you will take my advice you will give the
peacock to Mr. Morad-Bakche. He has sworn to have it.”

“And I have sworn that he shall not have it. Do you think that I am afraid of a
black man, Miss Grison? Moreover I have not got the bird.”

“Oh!” She shrugged her shoulders, “I daresay Sorley has concealed it somewhere,
and will tell you where to find it before he is hanged.”

“He never will be hanged.”

“Yes he will. He can’t escape.”

“Unless it can be proved that you took the peacock to Belstone.”

“I never did,” said Miss Orison coldly; “Sorley made up that story to account
for its possession and to implicate me.”

“Well,” said Alan rising, “I shall ask Jotty, for I verily believe he is aware
of much more than he chooses to say.”

“He has never told me anything,” snapped the woman; “and moreover is the most
ungrateful little reptile I ever met. I gave him a good home and a new name and
food and clothes and every chance of being respectable; yet he ran away, and
heaven only knows where he is.”

“I can’t tell you his whereabouts now, Miss Grison, but I can tell you in what
direction he went on leaving the house a few days ago.”

For the first time the landlady showed some curiosity. “Where did he go?”

“To Belstone with a copy of your interview in his pocket to warn Sorley that——”

He got no further, for Miss Grison jumped up with her hard blue eyes flashing
with rage. “The traitor,” she said in an ominously calm voice. “After all I did
for him, he tried to save Sorley, did he?”

“For money?”

“Of course. The boy is a born miser. Well, if he returns here, I shall know how
to punish him. Never mind how; don’t ask; I may box his ears, or I may have him
put in jail for theft.”

“But since you have given him a chance of being respectable why ruin him?”

“Because he has sided with my enemy.”

“Why do you hate Sorley so?” questioned Fuller, bluntly. “You wish to know. Then
you shall. I hate him because he ruined my brother Baldwin, because he murdered
my brother Baldwin, and because he deserted me twenty years ago.”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean what I say, Mr. Fuller. Do you know who I am? You don’t. Well, I am Mrs.
Sorley.” Alan stared. “His wife?”

“His deserted wife,” corrected the woman bitterly. “Yes; Randolph married me
because I was a pretty girl. But he grew tired of me, and then he wanted to make
a rich lady his wife.”

“Yes; I have heard that,” said Alan recalling the story of his mother, about
Miss Marchmont. “It was a secret marriage,” said Miss Grison; “he asked me to
keep it secret, as he feared lest his sister, Mrs. Inderwick, should ask him to
leave The Monastery if she learned what he had done. The lady he wished to make
his wife died, or I should have spoken out. But Baldwin forged that check, and
the sole way in which I could prevent Randolph from putting him in the dock was
by promising to hold my tongue for ever. He gave me money, and I came here to
set up this boarding-house. And I took the peacock to punish him, afterwards
giving it to Baldwin. Randolph fought me, but I said that I would destroy it if
he used force. And then—well,” she broke off abruptly, “can you blame me for
hating this man? He ruined my brother and he ruined me and I—hush! What’s that?
Mr. Latimer!”

It was indeed Dick, who came hastily into the room. “Alan! Alan, come with me to
the police office.”

“What is the matter?”

“Sorley has escaped.”

“Escaped,” Miss Grison screamed, and then suppressed her emotion lest more
trouble should be caused in the house. “How—how did he escape?” she asked,
clenching her hands so tightly that the nails were driven into the flesh. Dick
was recovering his breath by degrees. “When the cab stopped at Bow Street police
office, and we alighted—that is, when Moon and his officer and Sorley alighted,
for I followed him in another cab—Sorley suddenly darted away and was lost in
the fog.”

There was a look of mingled dismay and anger on Miss Grison’s face at this
unexpected intelligence. She tried to speak and could not, so Fuller asked the
necessary question. “Didn’t the detective hold him when he alighted?”

“Yes, and there came in Sorley’s cleverness. On the way out of this house he
managed to slip his arms out of the sleeves of that overcoat he wore and simply
left it buttoned on his shoulders. When one of the men held him by the arm, he
suddenly slipped the coat and ran away. Of course Moon and his underlings
followed, but the fog was so thick that they could not catch him. I arrived a
moment later, and then came back here to tell you.”

“He is guilty, he is guilty,” said Miss Grison persistently. “What do you say
now, Mr. Fuller?”

Alan was puzzled. “He certainly gave himself up,” he remarked. “And intended to
give the detectives and Moon the slip whenever he had the chance,” retorted the
landlady. “Bah! Don’t tell me; the man is the murderer of my brother, and came
here to try and force me to prove his innocence by admitting that I took the
peacock down to Belstone, which I certainly did not. What is your opinion, Mr.
Latimer?”

“I can’t say,” replied Dick with a perplexed air. “To-night, since the man was
giving himself up so frankly, I half believed that he was innocent. I have my
doubts now. But it is a very puzzling case,” ended Dick with a sigh. Fuller,
preparing to take his leave buttoned up his coat and picked up his hat. “There
is one thing to be said in Sorley’s favor,” he remarked, addressing Miss Grison,
“if he did murder your brother, he did you a service.”

She threw back her head scornfully. “Oh indeed! I should like to know in what
way, Mr. Fuller?”

“I heard—and Latimer there is my informant—that your brother murdered a man just
outside the opium den he frequented in order to rob him of watch and money and
general jewelry. Since this is the case, Sorley saved your brother from being
hanged, and your name from being further disgraced.”

Miss Grison’s head drooped. “Inspector Moon told me about the matter,” she
admitted, “and how the watch had been traced. But I don’t believe Baldwin killed
anyone. He was much too kind and thoughtful.”

“My dear lady,” said Latimer impatiently, “let me point out that no one but
yourself entertains this good opinion of your late brother. According to
everyone else he was a bad lot. I regret having to say this, but you must be
just. If Sorley has acted wickedly—and of that we cannot be sure—your brother is
not free from blame. That he murdered this man is certain, so his own violent
death is simple justice.”

“I don’t believe what you say, Mr. Latimer; you are prejudiced in favor of that
beast.”

“On the contrary, as Mr. Fuller will tell you, I have been hot against the man,
Miss Grison. Now I have my doubts of his guilt.”

“In spite of his escape?”

“Yes It is a perplexing case, and until I can gain more evidence, I am not
prepared to give an opinion. Why do you hate him so?”

The woman gave the same answer to Latimer as she had given already to Alan,
detailing the circumstances which led her to become her enemy’s wife, and
emphasizing his desertion. “And I kept silent for Baldwin’s sake,” she ended in
a grating voice; “but he is dead, so there is no longer any reason for me to
deny that I am Mrs. Sorley. Not that I shall ever take my real name, seeing how
my husband has disgraced it. Now I don’t want you to make any remarks, thank
you, Mr. Latimer. You can go, and you can be sure that I shall do my best to get
Randolph arrested again.”

“You won’t find it easy to discover him in this fog,” said Dick dryly, and with
Alan took his immediate leave, for there seemed no necessity to remain and
listen to Miss Grison’s wrath which was that of an unreasonable woman obsessed
by one bitter idea. The fog was still thick, and Fuller remarked that he
wondered how Moon had managed to get a cab. “We couldn’t do it, Dick.”

“The fog gets lighter at times and then thick again,” said Latimer absently. “I
suppose when Moon took his cab, traffic was resumed for the moment.”

“It seems to have stopped now,” answered Alan, trying to peer into the darkness
blurred by the street lamps. “Let us go home. Why do you want to go to the Bow
Street office again?”

“I only wished to learn the latest details with an eye to copy,” said Dick, “but
I think I shall leave things until to-morrow, as I am quite tired out.”

Having arrived at this conclusion, the two groped their way back to Chancery
Lane and to Barkers Inn. The true reason why Latimer had so readily yielded to
Fuller’s suggestion was that he greatly desired to learn if Sorley had again
sought shelter with them. But on entering their chambers they found that no one
had come during their absence, and Dick heaved a sigh of relief, which was
echoed by Alan. “I’m glad he didn’t come back,” remarked Alan, “we should have
had to give him up.”

“I think he knew as much, and so did not return. However, the fog will afford
him an excellent chance of escape, and I doubt if he will be caught a second
time. What’s the matter?”

“The black bag,” gasped Fuller, pointing to an article of that description which
was on a chair in the corner of the room, “he mentioned that when he went away
with Moon.” Alan picked up the bag. “What is in it?”

“The peacock for a hundred pounds,” cried Dick swiftly. He was right, for when
the bag was opened, Fuller found wrapped in the chamois skin the golden bird,
which was the cause of all the trouble. “Ha!” said Latimer staring at it, “now
we can try and solve the riddle.”

CHAPTER XVI MISS INDERWICK’S EXCURSION

While these events were taking place in London, Marie, isolated in The
Monastery, anxiously waited to hear news from her lover. As arranged, Mr. Fuller
met her at the Lewes station and drove her to Belstone in his trap. As Alan had
guessed, the vicar was in full possession of all that had taken place, and
invited the girl to stay with himself and his wife until matters were more
settled. While in London Marie had complained of her loneliness at the big
house, and had looked forward to some such invitation. But on the way down in
the train she had changed her mind, since she felt that she could think things
out better when alone. However, she did not object to dining at the vicarage,
and explained the whole matter to her hostess. They were naturally horrified, as
no such event had ever before disturbed the village. “I can’t believe that Mr.
Sorley would commit a crime,” said Mrs. Fuller, greatly distressed, “gentlemen
don’t do these things.”

The vicar drew down his long upper lip. “I fear that gentlemen do what suits
them, when the temptation is strong, my dear.”

“Does that mean that you believe Uncle Ran is guilty?” flashed out Marie in a
resentful tone. “Not necessarily. I am not yet acquainted with the whole story,
save what scraps you told me as we drove here.”

Marie looked round the room, and seeing that the servants had taken their
departure, leaving those at the table to walnuts and wine, she concluded that
the moment had come to make a clean breast of things. In a low voice, and
entirely without emotion, she related all that she had heard from Alan and Dick.
The story sounded black enough, and the faces of Mr. and Mrs. Fuller grew longer
as she proceeded. When she ended there ensued a silence which rasped Marie’s
nerves. “Well?” she asked sharply, and looking from one to the other, “what do
you think of it?”

“The weight of evidence is decidedly in favor of Sorley’s guilt,” said Mr.
Fuller sadly. “I daresay. All the same he is innocent.”

“How can you prove that, my dear girl?”

“I can’t prove it,” responded Miss Inderwick in a truly feminine way, “but Uncle
Ran never did it for all that.”

“It is all very dreadful,” moaned Mrs. Fuller, shaken out of her usual state of
placid happiness. “I wonder you can speak so quietly, Marie.”

“I cried awfully in London,” acknowledged the girl frankly; “but I can’t cry any
more. Tears won’t help Uncle Ran, and common-sense will. He is not going to be
hanged if I can help it.”

“Oh, my dear.” Mrs. Fuller shuddered at the mention of the sinister word. “You
intend to prove your uncle’s innocence—or what you presume to be his innocence?”
asked the vicar, looking at her doubtfully. “Yes, only I don’t presume anything.
I know that Uncle Ran never killed that poor thing. I don’t know who did, but he
didn’t.”

“How are you going to set about the matter?”

“I can’t say,” said Marie curtly, although this statement was not quite true,
for she had an idea of making a start, which she did not intend to place before
these two ordinary people. “Of course, if your uncle had the peacock, my dear——”

“Mrs. Fuller, I am quite sure that Miss Grison brought down the peacock on that
day when she paid a visit unasked to The Monastery. She hates Uncle Ran because
she thinks he ruined her brother, and is only too glad to get him into trouble.”

“But how could she get the peacock?”

“From her brother. He had it all the time. Alan said so, and he knows a very
great deal about matters.”

“Alan has a good head,” said the vicar approvingly. “I think Marie you had
better allow him to look into the matter, and stay with us meanwhile. We can
send over to The Monastery for your clothes, my dear.”

“No thank you. I wished at one time to stay here until Uncle Ran was proved
innocent, but I think it is best for me to return to the house in case he should
come back again.”

“Oh, I hope not,” cried Mrs. Fuller in alarm, “he would assuredly be arrested as
soon as the news got about.”

“It wouldn’t get about,” said Marie resolutely, “for I should hide Uncle Ran
somewhere until we learned the truth. There are plenty of secret places in the
house where he could be concealed.”

Mr. Fuller passed over this latter statement to remark upon the first. “The
question is, what is the truth? If Sorley is innocent, and I sincerely trust
that he is, who murdered this unfortunate Baldwin?”

“Morad-Bakche,” said Marie promptly. “Who is he? You never mentioned him
before,” said Mrs. Fuller, startled. “Did I not?” observed Miss Inderwick with a
lightness she was far from feeling. “Oh, he is an Indian who wants to get the
jewels because he says that they belong to the royal family of Kam. He came down
here and stopped a night at The Red Fox.”

Mr. Fuller nodded. “I fancy I heard something about a foreigner staying there,”
he said quietly, “in July last was it not?”

Marie nodded. “He learned all about the peacock from Mrs. Verwin—the common talk
of the village, that is.”

“Oh that woman is a terrible gossip,” exclaimed Mrs. Fuller distressed. “I dread
her tongue. What did she say exactly, my dear?”

Marie reported the interview between herself and Mrs. Verwin and Alan, and
shortly, the vicar and his wife were acquainted with the way in which Morad-
Bakche had traced the peacock to Belstone and afterwards to London. “And I
believe that he learned Mr. Grison had it,” finished Marie, “and must have tried
to get it from him. A man like that is much more likely to murder a person than
poor dear Uncle Ran, though he has his faults, and has always been horrid over
my engagement to Alan.”

“But are you really engaged to Alan?” asked the vicar sharply. “Yes, I am. Uncle
Ran said that if Alan found the jewels that we could be married, so I look upon
myself as being engaged to him.”

“But Alan has never found the jewels,” objected Mrs. Fuller tremulously. “He may
never find them, my dear.”

“It doesn’t matter,” replied Marie, getting on her feet; “we shall marry all the
same. But the first thing to be done is to save Uncle Ran, and I am doing what I
can—that is, I intend to do what I can. Alan will work also, and Mr. Latimer,
though he doesn’t seem to think Uncle Ran is innocent.’

“On the face of it it looks as though he were not,” said the vicar doubtfully,
and rising in his turn, “however we can talk over the matter in the drawing-
room.”

“No,” said Marie standing very erect, and looking at the elderly pair with very
bright eyes. “I am now going home to think out things.”

“Oh, Marie, won’t you stay here?”

“I think it is best to go home,” repeated the girl gently, but kissing the soft
and withered old cheek. “I am all right with granny and Henny and Jenny to look
after me. If Mr. Bakche comes I shan’t be afraid.”

“My dear girl, you may suspect him wrongly,” said Mr. Fuller. “Well, other
people are suspecting Uncle Ran wrongly,” retorted Miss Inderwick, “so that
balances things. Now I must go away. Good-night Mr. Fuller; good-night, Mrs.
Fuller. If I learn anything I shall come and tell you.”

“I shall write at once to Alan and ask him to explain things precisely,” said
the vicar, as he saw his guest at the door; “and keep up your heart my dear
child. This trouble, like all troubles, is a blessing in disguise.”

“It is a very good disguise, then” said Marie sadly, “no, don’t come with me,”
she added when Mr. Fuller assumed his soft hat and took his stick. “I can get
home by myself.”

“No,” said the clergyman grimly, and took her arm, “after you have hinted about
that Indian, I think it is just as well to see you safely into the hands of your
servants.”

“But you don’t think——”

“I think that one should always be on the safe side, my dear. If this man wants
the peacock, he may try and enter the house. If he does I am sorry for him, as
Henny and Jenny are as strong as men. By the way where is that wretched bird,
which has caused so much trouble?”

“I don’t know,” sighed Marie, as they walked through the village, “uncle took it
away with him I think, although he has left his gems.”

“I should think if Sorley clears his name he will have had enough of gems for
the rest of his life,” remarked Mr. Fuller rebukingly, but as Marie did not
answer, and he did not wish to cause her pain, he said no more. They passed
through Belstone, and into the park, and Marie said good-bye to the vicar when
Henny with a noisy joy received her at the door. Mr. Fuller was now at ease in
his mind, as he knew how devoted the Dutch dolls were, and returned home
wondering how these crooked things would straighten out. Granny and the two
servants were overcome with delight when their young mistress was within doors,
for they had troubled considerably over her visit to London. Marie laughed them
out of their fears and assured them that she was quite able to look after
herself. They asked after Mr. Sorley, who was no great favorite with the three,
but of course Marie, ignorant of what had taken place at Miss Grison’s, could
give them no information. In her opinion Uncle Ran had gone abroad, and would
wait there until his innocence could be proved. “Well, my dear Miss Marie,” said
granny polishing her spectacles. “God forbid as I should say what I shouldn’t
say, but there’s no doubt as Mr. Sorley ain’t the proper person to be your
guardian, my dear. He’s took your money and kept you short and mewed you up here
like a nun, to say nothing of having behaved very badly to that poor Miss
Grison, not that I’m fond of her myself.”

“Did Uncle Ran ever care for her?” asked Miss Inderwick anxiously. “Well he did
and he didn’t. She was pretty, in a light-haired skimpy way, I don’t deny, and I
thought as he loved her; and then—but it’s too long a story, Miss Marie. I’ll
tell it you to-morrow when you are rested. Let us hope that Mr. Sorley won’t be
hanged, which would be a sore disgrace to the family, and that you’ll marry
Master Alan, who is just the kind-hearted gentleman to look after your interests
properly.”

“Look after them and me also, you mean, granny,” said Marie, who was really too
weary to listen to an account of her uncle’s early delinquencies. “I shall go to
bed now,” and she did, feeling quite worn out. But before falling asleep she
arranged in her own mind to go to London the next day. The fact is, Marie being
anxious and wilful, was not at all pleased to remain passive while things were
so unpleasant for her uncle, and incidentally for herself, since she was his
niece. Alan had insisted that she should not see Mother Slaig, whereupon Marie,
although promising to obey him, mentally vowed that she would do so. Mother
Slaig, if anyone, would know the truth and might be persuaded to reveal it to a
dexterous questioner. Of course this was Marie’s own opinion, and she intended
to prove to Alan that she was right. Sorley had given her twenty pounds, so
there was no lack of money, and the girl decided firmly to do a little detective
business on her own account. For no visible reason she believed that Bakche had
something to do with the death of Grison, if not indeed the actual doer of the
deed. Should her surmise prove to be correct Mother Slaig might be able to say
if the Indian had haunted the slum, or had come into touch with the deceased.
And Marie wished her uncle would return home if only to tell her that he had
seen Bakche at Rotherhithe, which was not impossible, considering that Mr.
Sorley had been too often to interview Grison. But Sorley, as she sadly
reflected, did not dare to come back, for the detective left behind by Moon was
still in the house, and would arrest him at once. Of course granny made an
outcry the next morning, when Marie announced her intention of going again to
London. All her arguments were in vain, however, and Miss Inderwick left the
house early so as to catch a morning train. She promised to be back again by six
o’clock, but did not tell granny where she was going—that is she admitted that
the metropolis was her goal, but did not specify whither she would precisely go.
Granny, believing that the wilful girl was to meet her lover, felt fairly
comfortable in her mind. Had she known that Miss Inderwick purposed exploring a
slum, she would have sent a telegram to Fuller to stop the excursion. Marie
guessed this, so held her peace. The girl knew exactly how to get to
Rotherhithe, as she had peeped into an ABC. before leaving Belstone. On arrival
at Victoria it was necessary to take the underground route, which would conduct
her directly to her destination. When on the spot Marie hoped by enquiries to
learn the precise whereabouts of Mother Slaig, and moreover had a faint idea
that the slum the harridan lived in was called Gibson’s Rents. To explore this
low neighborhood she had put on an old serge frock and a shabby black jacket, so
that she was as well disguised as her uncle had been when he sought Barkers Inn.
Not that Marie was ever so well dressed as Mr. Sorley, for he never gave her
sufficient money to be extravagant. The venturesome damsel duly reached Victoria
Station, and had no difficulty in dropping downward to the nether railway line.
Being yet a schoolgirl and feeling hungry, she bought some pastry of the jam-
puff order and devoured it in the first-class compartment, which she shared with
other ladies. Marie travelled in this most expensive fashion, because she
thought she would be safer from being accosted by strangers. Destiny protected
her in this especial way, and she gained Rotherhithe without having a single
remark addressed to her. When she emerged into the open air once more, she
looked helplessly around, not knowing which way to go. But she felt sure that
Gibson’s Rents was the name of the slum, and asked a tall and burly policeman
where it was to be found. The officer looked at her keenly, and saw that she was
a lady in spite of her shabby clothes. “Why do you wish to go there, miss?” he
asked, and touched his helmet, “it’s a rough place.”

“I wish to see a woman called Mrs. Slaig.”

“Mother Slaig. Why, miss, she’s one of the worst creatures in the slum. I don’t
think it is wise of you to go, miss, I don’t indeed. You’re a district visitor,
I take it, miss,” went on the man, who could conceive of no other object but
philanthropy which would take the young lady into such a hole, “and Mother Slaig
don’t want tracts.”

Marie did not deny the identity the policeman attributed to her, as she was
quick enough to see that such a character would expedite her journey, and would
conceal her real intentions. She did not wish to be asked questions lest she
should get into trouble, by interesting herself in a police-court case, such as
the murder of Grison truly was. “I shall be all right, officer,” she answered
lightly; “no one will hurt me.”

“Well, miss, I don’t think they will, for they think a heap of district visitors
at Gibson’s Rents, as these ladies give them money. But I can take you to the
end of my beat and pass you on to another officer, who will show you the way.
Come along, miss.”

Marie conceived a high estimate of the guardians of the law, for her friend
passed her along to another, who transferred her to a third, and all three men
were courteous and considerate in every way. Perhaps Marie’s good looks, and
engaging manners had something to do with this suavity, but she was certainly
charmed with her guides. It was a fourth policeman, tall, slim and military-
looking who conducted her down the crooked alley, near the riverside, where
Mother Slaig had her boarding-house. There were numbers of disreputable people
about, both male and female, and when the oaths of these unfortunate creatures
struck her ear, and her eyes rested on their animal faces, the girl felt glad
that she had a constable at her elbow. In her ignorance, she had never thought
that the neighborhood was so vile as this, and half regretted coming. However,
she had the high spirit of the Inderwicks, and declined to turn back, for having
put her hand to the plough, the did not intend to leave it until she had driven
her furrow. The fourth policeman saw her shudder of disgust, when they stopped
before a disreputable house, dingy, tumble-down, and dilapidated. “I shall stay
here while you give Mother Slaig your tracts, miss,” he said politely, also
taking her for a district visitor, “and if anything goes wrong, you just call
for me.”

Perhaps for this reason Mother Slaig received Marie graciously, when she
ventured into the evil-smelling place. It was like a rabbit-warren with
innumerable doors, passages, stairs, and rooms, all equally foul. Men and women
in ragged garbs swarmed in and out, while children tumbled here there and
everywhere, shrilly crying and swearing and quarrelling. The police introduced
Marie to the landlady of this thieves’ kitchen, as it truly was, and then took
up his station at the door with his thumbs in his belt, to look benignly on the
ebbing and flowing of the populace in and out of the lane, and in and out of the
dens which bordered it. Mother Slaig, not approving of district visitors—for
Marie had been presented as one—led the young lady into a small dark room on the
ground floor, and sat down with a sniff, prepared to battle for her rights as an
Englishwoman, who declined to be converted. She was a shapeless stout old
creature swathed in various rags which had long since lost their color. Her face
was so swarthy as to suggest gipsy blood, and her snappy black eyes and the
quantity of cheap jewellery she wore emphasised the fact that she probably
belonged to the gentle Romany. “I don’t want no Bible talk, young lady,” she
said in a harsh voice, “nor no tracts, nor no arsking if I’m saved. Whether I am
or I ain’t’s my look out, so just say your say and git, though I don’t deny,”
added Mother Slaig in a whining tone, “as a shilling or two, let alone gold,
would help me to bear me sorrers better, bless you, my dearie.”

“I shall give you a pound if you will let me have a talk with you,” said Marie,
smiling, for in spite of the woman’s disreputable looks there was something
oddly attractive about her. “A pound, and what’s a pound, miss?” grumbled Mother
Slaig. “Not much, but it is all I can afford. You are a kind-hearted woman, Mrs.
Slaig, I am quite sure.”

“Me!” Mother Slaig stared. “Why I’m the tork of the place for me languidge and
slappings.”

“Ah,” said Marie diplomatically, “no one has taken you in the right way.”

“P’raps they ’ave an’ p’raps they ’avn’t,” growled the woman restlessly, for
Marie’s charm of manner softened her, “an what’s all this oil and butter for,
miss. You want something, you do. Oh trust you fur that.”

“Yes, Mrs. Slaig, I do want something, and I am going to throw myself on your
mercy, because I trust you.”

The old hag stopped scratching her elbow, and stared harder than ever. “I never
was spoke delicate-like to afore,” she muttered. “You ain’t the sort of lady
with tracts as I’ ’ad ’ere, bullying me no end.”

“I hope I’m not,” said Marie with a girlish laugh, which brought a perplexed
smile in answer on the old woman’s dirty wrinkled face. It was rare that such
pure innocent laughter was heard in Gibson’s Rents. “I know you will help me,
Mrs. Slaig.”

“Well, I don’t say as I won’t, for there’s no denying you’ve got a way with you,
as ain’t bad. What is it?”

“It’s about the murder of Mr. Grison?” said Marie slowly. Mother Slaig aroused
with a subdued screech, “Blimme if you ain’t one o’ them wimin ’tecs. Now ain’t
y’, ain’t y’?”

“No; I am the niece of Mr. Randolph Sorley who is accused of the crime.”

Mother Slaig dropped again into her chair a shapeless bundle of clothes, and
with a bewildered look in her eyes. “Ho! you’re her, are y’?” she growled, but
not in a hostile manner. “Moon—he’s the head peeler hereabouts, dearie’s been
nosin’ round about that murder. Only this mornin’ he comes an’ ses as they
caught that Sorley cove larst night, and he got away in th’ bloomin’ fog. Yuss,”
said Mother Slaig, anticipating Marie’s question. “I knows the Sorley cove. Many
a time he’s come t’ see that Grison chap, as was a rotten bad egg, and guv me
shillin’s and tanners endless. A swell, a toff, he was tryin’ to look what
wasn’t his age, but a good ’un wiff his cash. I ’adn’t got no row with him,
nohow,” and she nodded vigorously. “You don’t think he murdered Mr. Grison?”
asked Marie apprehensively. “Blimme if I knows,” said Mother Slaig reflectively,
and scratching her elbow again, “and what odd’s ’f he did anyhow, miss. Grison
was better undergroun’ than above it in my opinion. Never paid his rent rigler
he did, cuss him,” swore Mother Slaig furiously, “an’ if I’d knowed about that
gold hen as they’re makin’ sich a fuss round, I’d ha’ had it out of him for a
whelp as he allays was, an’ that same, you kin taike fro’ me, miss.”

“Well I don’t believe that my uncle murdered Mr. Grison,” said Marie in a
resolute voice, and looking hard at the harridan. “That’s right, dearie, allys
stick up fur them as is relatives, though I don’t think much o’ mine leavin’ me
’ere to slave cruel, and never givin’ no cash whiff their stingyness. He was
’ere that night y’ know anyhow.”

“He came away at eight o’clock and Mr. Grison wasn’t killed till after,”
declared the girl. “So he ses,” murmured Mother Slaig, “p’raps some frien’ of
him es Grison stuck paid him out in th’ saime waif.”

“What do you mean?” asked Marie who had not heard of the man’s act. “Didn’t y’
know,” cried Mother Slaig with relish “why, bless y’ miss—an’ bless y’ I kin,
fur I’ve kind o’ taiken a fancy t’ y’—Grison killed a cove es he smoked wiff in,
that Chinky’s den. We fun’ the watch of th’ cove an’ his juwulery in Grison’s
room. A frien’ of him es wos done fur may ’ave stuck Grison out of revenge, and
no blame t’ him, dearie.”

“Do you know if any relatives of this dead man came down here?”

“No, I never did. I don’t know anything, miss, and what’s more I don’t want to
i’ case I shud come bunkin’ against them beastly perlice, as is allays
interferin’ with an honest woman who’s tryin’ to git ’er livin’.”

“Well then,” asked Marie coming to the point “can you tell me if an Indian
called Morad-Bakche ever came to see Mr. Grison?”

“Don’ no th’ naime,” said Mother Slaig, after a moment’s thought, “an there’s
lots of them dagoes abaout ’ere, lascars an’ mulletters and all that sort o’
scum. Grison torked t’ one an’ all. What like’s the cove’s y’ve got in yer mind,
miss?”

As Marie had heard Bakche described both by Alan and Mrs. Verwin she was able to
convey to Mother Slaig’s shrewd intelligence a fair picture of the man. The old
hag reflected again, then slapped her fat knees with both fat hands. “Know ’im,
dearie; ’course I knows him, ’Aughty-like, fur a nigger, an’ looked on me, es is
a free born British woman jus’ like mud. I guv him bits of m’ mind when he
sneaked round ’ere.”

“Then he _did_ come to see Mr. Grison?” asked Marie, delighted that she had
succeeded in establishing the fact of Bakche’s acquaintance with the dead man.
“Did he come often?”

“Carn’t keep count, miss, me not ’aving a ’ead fur figures, tho’ me sister was
grand at them, dearie. But he comes times an’ again. Oh, yuss,” she went on as
the memory returned to her, “he was stan’orf fur a nigger. ’Thort he was a
lascar at fust, but he wasn’t, tho’ he did live on rice and water like them
sweeps. Dress’d like one of them stokers tho’—if y’ know what a seedee boy is,
miss, which of course y’ wudn’t, bein’ a lady. I sawr as he was a cut above
them, I did. He wore a snake?”

“Wore a snake,” repeated Marie bewildered. “On his right arm, below th’ elber,”
explained Mother Slaig, “’tattooted it was, as them sailors ’ave a fancy fur;
twistin’ round’ an’ roun’ till it made me giddy t’ look at it.”

Marie was glad she had heard this mark of identification was to be found on the
haughty dark gentleman who had visited Grison. She was certain that the man in
question was Bakche in search of the peacock, but it was just as well that
Mother Slaig could identify him by means of the tattooed snake. “Was he here on
the night of the murder?” asked Marie anxiously. “Ah, now you ’as me,” said
Mother Slaig in an expansive fashion, “me, on th’ night as he was done fur,
bein’ ’appy.”

“Happy?” Marie did not know what was meant. “Gin,” explained Mother Slaig
rocking to and fro. “White satin as some call it, tho’ blue ruin is my naime fur
it. I got half a quid fro’ that Sorley chap, es he come in or wen’ out—I dunno
which. ’Laid it all out in gin wiff frien’s o’ mine, and we did ’ave a time t’
dream of. Never thort I cud ha’ swallered such oachings o’ gin; but I did, an’
the thust as was on me nex’ mornin’, dearie, you’d never believe.”

“But isn’t it bad to drink so much,” asked Marie, rising timidly. “Fur sich es
you es is a flower it is,” agreed Mother Slaig, rolling out of the chair and
getting on her feet with an effort, since she was so stout, “but not fur me, es
’as a ’ard time, dearie. You’ve fun’ me sober thro’ me not ’aving—where’s that
there quid y’ promised?” she demanded suddenly. “There,” said Marie, taking the
money from her pocket, “but don’t drink it away, Mrs. Slaig. It’s a pity such a
nice woman as you should drink gin.”

“Well, I don’t git no shampin down ’ere, dearie,” said Mrs. Slaig crossly, and,
like Jotty, biting the gold to make sure it was genuine. “We taikes what we can.
Wan’t t’ know anythin’ else, lovey dovey?”

“No,” answered Marie, walking into the passage, for the smell and closeness of
the place was making her feel faint. “But you needn’t tell anyone what I asked
you about.”

“Sha’n’t nohow,” said Mother Slaig firmly. “Y’ve browt back daiys when I was a
pretty girl and ’ad all the men arter me, furious-like. You’re a breath o’ fresh
air an’ a smell of country roses, an’ a sight o’ green fields, t’ yours truly,
dearie. An, never a word shell I say, save as you’re a visitor with tracts—tho’
you ain’t guv me one, but summit better.” Mother Slaig felt for her sovereign as
she spoke. “But if there’s police, dearie, an’ I ’as t’ saive m’ bacon, I mus’
speak.”

“There will be no trouble with the police,” Marie assured her in a low and
hurried voice, for her friendly constable was just at the end of the passage.
“Good-bye, Mrs. Slaig.”

“Go’bye, dearie,” she attempted a curtsey, but failed for want of breath. “’An
bless y’ fur an angil o’ delight wiff stars roun’ yer ’ead.”

Marie laughed and hurried away in the shadow of the policeman, who refused to
accept a tip. Again she was passed from one constable to another, until she
regained the station, and every one of her temporary guides declined money. “The
most chivalrous men in the world,” said Marie afterwards, “are London
policemen!” and she never changed her opinion on this point. CHAPTER XVII THE
SECRET

Considering that Marie was inexperienced in worldly matters, she acted with
extraordinary foresight and determination. Few girls would have risked that
journey to the Rotherhithe slum, or would have conducted the interview with
Mother Slaig so discreetly. Certainly her lucky star was in the ascendant when
she plunged into those malodorous depths, as she had been guarded from all peril
by the various policemen; but her own diplomatic behavior had accomplished the
impossible with the old harridan. Marie returned home with the full belief that
Morad-Bakche was the guilty person, since he desired to obtain possession of the
peacock, and he had been haunting the house wherein Baldwin Grison resided. That
Sorley had held the bird—a fact vouched for by Alan—she believed was due to the
machinations of Miss Grison, who evidently was working in concert with the
Indian to ruin the man. And Bakche’s reward would be possession of the jewels,
since Marie fancied the dead man’s sister had possibly guessed the riddle of the
ornament. If this was so, there was no need for either of the conspirators to
retain possession of the peacock, since it had yielded up its secret. With this
idea Marie came back to Lewes, and there she sent a telegram to Alan asking him
to come down the next day. She was anxious to impart her discovery to her lover,
and to show him that she also was able to help in the matter of tracing Grison’s
assassin, and obtaining the treasure. On the evidence she had discovered
concerning Bakche’s presence at Rotherhithe, a new departure might be taken
relative to the conduct of the case. But Marie felt that she could venture no
further along the dark path unassisted, and therefore wished for Alan’s co-
operation. She knew that the telegram would bring him to her at once, and
retired to bed with the conviction that he would lose no time in coming to
Belstone. Of course on her return, she had to answer numerous inquiries from
granny and the maids as to what she had been doing, but managed to answer
without stating too plainly what her errand had been. She was very weary when
she placed her head on the pillow, and fell asleep almost immediately. Fuller
duly arrived by an early morning train, and it was ten o’clock when Marie—who
was watching for him like a veritable Sister Anne—saw him walk up the avenue.
She rushed out of the house and led him into it, hanging fondly on his arm,
while asking innumerable questions. “Oh, darling, I am so glad to see you. And
how are you? and when did you arrive? and how long are you going to stay? and
will we go into the library? and what have you in that black bag?”

The young man laughed at her eagerness, and was surprised to see how gay and
happy she looked, which was indeed remarkable, seeing that Sorley was in such
straits. He replied to her questions in sequence. “I am quite well, dearest; I
arrived an hour ago, and walked direct from Lewes to you, not even troubling to
go to the vicarage; I shall stay for the whole day, as I want to be with you,
and have much to tell you; we may as well go into the library for a purpose
which I shall explain soon; and in this bag I have the peacock of jewels.”

“Oh,” cried Miss Inderwick greatly astonished, “how did you get it?”

“Mr. Sorley left it in my chambers last night.”

“Then you have seen Uncle Ran?”

“Yes; and so has Latimer.”

Marie looked nervous. “Mr. Latimer doesn’t like Uncle Ran,” she said
thoughtfully, “but I hope he has not given him up to the police.”

“Your Uncle Ran gave himself up of his own accord,” said Alan grimly, “but
repented at the eleventh hour and made his escape.”

“I’m glad of that,” remarked the girl thankfully, “as I believe Uncle Ran is
quite innocent. But why did he give himself up at all?”

“I don’t know, no more than I can say why he changed his mind and bolted, my
dear. However, I can tell you the whole story if you will listen.” And when Miss
Inderwick signified by a gesture that she was all ears, Fuller detailed all that
had taken place on the previous night. By this time they were in the library
with the door closed, and Alan related his story seated in a deep armchair with
Marie balancing herself on the table. “Poor dear Uncle Ran,” she said when
Fuller ended; “he wished to give that horrid Miss Grison a chance of confessing
her guilt.”

“Confessing her guilt! What do you mean, Marie?”

“I mean that she knows more about the murder than she admits, and that she is in
league with that nasty Indian to ruin Uncle Ran.”

Alan shook his head gravely. “You can’t be sure of that, Marie.”

“But I am,” she insisted positively. “Mr. Bakche knew that Mr. Grison was at
Mother Slaig’s and went there heaps of times. She saw him.”

“How do you know?” asked Alan, surprised by her decided tone. “Because she told
me herself. Of course she didn’t know his name, but her description is exactly
the same as yours—haughty, dark and——”

“Marie! Marie! How do you know this?”

“Because I visited Mother Slaig yesterday.”

Fuller looked startled. “Darling you never went by yourself to see that dreadful
old hag?”

“Yes, I did, and I don’t think she’s so very dreadful. She was very nice to me
in every way, and what she told me only cost a sovereign.”

“Marie, you shouldn’t have gone to Rotherhithe without telling me.”

“If I had you would have stopped me,” pouted Miss Inderwick; “and I did so want
to do something to help Uncle Ran.”

“But has your visit helped him? Mother Slaig may be wrong about Bakche, and may
have mistaken a lascar for him.”

“There was no question of mistaking anyone,” retorted Marie quickly, “for Mother
Slaig did not know the name. I described Mr. Bakche as you did, and she said
that she had seen a man of that description—the snake man she called him.”

“The snake man,” repeated Alan swiftly. “Why?”

“On his right arm from the wrist to the elbow he had a snake tattooed in
spirals.”

Fuller slapped his knee, and spoke excitedly. “Mother Slaig is right, dear, and
so are you. Miss Grison told me that Bakche had such a mark.”

“Then he must have been at Rotherhithe and known Mr. Grison,” said Miss
Inderwick. “Certainly; since Mother Slaig would otherwise have known nothing
about the tattooed snake. Tell me exactly what she said, Marie.”

Miss Inderwick did so, omitting nothing, and shortly Fuller was in possession of
all that had taken place at Rotherhithe. The recital so excited him that he rose
to his feet and began to pace the room. “And Bakche denied that he visited
Rotherhithe, or knew Grison,” he cried. “Marie you have undoubtedly found
valuable evidence which may help to clear your uncle’s character, I admit that.”

“I am quite sure that Uncle Ran is innocent, and that Miss Grison is conspiring
with Mr. Bakche to ruin him,” said Marie firmly. Alan shook his head. “No, dear,
I don’t think that there is any conspiracy between them. If Bakche gained the
peacock by murder, he certainly would not have sent it to your uncle. And if
Miss Grison knew that he had the bird, she must have guessed that he stabbed her
dearly-beloved brother. In that case she would have denounced him. Of course,
she denies having brought the peacock down here; but if she did, Baldwin gave it
to her before his death.”

“And if she did not, Mr. Bakche must have sent it.”

“Why should he do that?”

“To get Uncle Ran into trouble.”

“My dear, Bakche did not wish to get Mr. Sorley into trouble. All he desired,
and still desires, is to obtain the peacock.”

“Then why did he haunt Rotherhithe?”

“To get the peacock,” repeated Alan; “and if he did get it, he certainly would
not have given it to your uncle. No, Marie.” Fuller shrugged his shoulders.
“What you have discovered implicates Bakche plainly enough, but it does not
solve the mystery of the death. That is as great a riddle as ever.”

“What is to be done now, then?” asked the girl, fuming at the judicious way in
which her lover talked. “We must tell Inspector Moon about Bakche’s visits to
Rotherhithe, and then the Indian can be questioned. I shall do that to-morrow.
Meanwhile—” Alan opened the black bag——“look at this.”

Marie greatly admired the peacock, as it was the first time she had set eyes on
the beautiful object. The glitter of the gold, the radiance of the many gems
appealed to her feminine love of color, and she clapped her hands with delight
when the gorgeous ornament glowed like a rainbow-hued star in the sunlight. The
lovers sat down and admired the luck of the Inderwicks, which held a secret hard
to solve, a secret which would, if guessed, bring a fortune to the last member
of the family and restore the faded splendors of the line. The girl with her
eyes fixed on the treasure, murmured words from the ancient prophecy:—

“Jewels and gold from over-seas Will bring them peace and joy and ease.”

Alan nodded. “If that is applied to this bird,” he said slowly, “it is perfectly
true, since the riddle, when guessed, means a gigantic fortune. You will be a
wealthy woman, Marie, and then I shall have some hesitation in keeping you to
your engagement.”

“Oh, Alan, darling, why?” asked the girl jumping up in dismay. “People might
call me a fortune-hunter.”

“I don’t see how they could, seeing that you love me now when I have next to
nothing. And if the fortune is found it will be through you, dearest, so you
will have a right to share it. And after all,” ended Marie earnestly and
inconsequently, “what does it matter what people say seeing that we love one
another?”

Alan kissed her. “That being the case, Marie, I promise you that no wealth shall
part us. But had we not better put the peacock away?”

“Won’t we try and solve the riddle?”

“It’s impossible. I’ve tried in every way to do so, and am still quite in the
dark as to how that jewelled bird can indicate the hiding-place.”

Marie took up the luck of her family and turned it round upside down, and looked
at it from every side. “It does seem impossible,” she confessed with a reluctant
sigh. “I suppose we must give up trying to guess its riddle for the present.
Where shall we put it, Alan?”

“In the cupboard, I suppose,” said the lawyer carelessly, and pointing to the
dark oak press, out of which Sorley had produced the peacock when it first
appeared on the scene; “it has always been there.”

“If so,” said Marie shrewdly, “someone—Miss Grison for one—may know where to
find it, and she is quite capable of telling Mr. Bakche who is in league with
her, I am sure. No, Alan, I shall put it along with Uncle Ran’s private
collection of gems,” and she moved towards the panel marked with a cross, which
Fuller remembered very well. “Can you open it, Marie?” he asked, walking beside
her to the place. “Yes! See!” She touched the hidden spring, and the panel slid
aside into its groove. “Uncle Ran showed me how to work this before he left, in
case—as he said—he should never come back.”

“Hum!” muttered Alan, staring into the dark recess with its many shelves, “he
seems to have his doubts as to whether his innocence will ever be clearly
proved. Put the peacock back on the table, Marie, and let us look at the gems.
If your uncle does not return they belong to you.”

“Yes, he said that,” replied Miss Inderwick, putting down the peacock near the
black bag. “Many of the gems are bought with my money. I always thought that you
were hard on Uncle Ran, dear; he saved money for me.”

“Marie, I have every wish to think well of your uncle,” confessed Alan, “but it
seems to me that he does not act quite straightly. For one thing he undoubtedly
treated Miss Grison very badly, and——” Fuller checked himself, as it did not
seem necessary at the moment to reveal the strange truth regarding the woman’s
claim to be Mrs. Sorley. “And what, dear?” asked the girl innocently. “Nothing.
I shall tell you later. Let us think the best we can of your uncle, and examine
his gems. I have seen them before, but I should like to admire them again. Bring
the trays to the table, Marie.”

The girl did so, and tray after tray of jewels was placed in the flood of
sunshine which streamed through the windows of the room, until the whole table
glittered with rainbow fires. When the shelves were empty, Marie put her hand in
and groped round to see if she had missed any gem. Suddenly she uttered an
exclamation, and brought out a long steel instrument, with a silver handle set
with rough turquoise stones. “Oh, Alan, look at this, dear,” she said, bringing
it to her lover. Fuller started and frowned, remembering how Grison had been
stabbed with a slender instrument, a stiletto for choice. And here was a
stiletto in the secret hiding-place of Sorley’s jewels. There was blood on the
handle, and the young man looked at it with a shudder. Was Sorley guilty after
all, and were these stains the life blood of Baldwin Grison? It would seem so,
he thought, and his thoughts showed themselves in his face, for Marie uttered an
exclamation and grew pale. “Oh Alan, dear, you don’t think that, do you?” she
asked piteously. “Think what, dear,” he asked in his turn, and evasively. “That
Uncle Ran murdered Mr. Grison with that stiletto.”

She had made use of the very word mentioned at the inquest. “It looks like it,
dear,” said Fuller sadly. “The evidence showed that Grison was murdered with a
weapon of this sort, and now that we find it in a secret place known only to
your uncle——”

“Miss Grison knows it also,” cried Marie, determined to believe nothing against
her relative. “We can’t be sure of that, dear. And if she did, she would not
have placed the weapon there. You surely don’t think she killed her brother?”

“Oh no; oh no. Still, if only to revenge herself on Uncle Ran because he—as she
says—ruined Mr. Grison, she may have——”

“Marie, it is no use building up theories,” interrupted Alan firmly; “the
presence of this stiletto looks bad, I don’t deny. Still Mr. Sorley may have
some explanation to make of its presence.”

“I am sure he is innocent, and will return to explain everything,” said Marie
obstinately. “Nothing will ever make me believe that Uncle Ran killed the poor
thing. We won’t think anything more about the matter until he comes back,” she
ended, and returned the stiletto to the hiding-place. “If he ever does come
back,” murmured Alan under his breath, for he looked on the presence of the
weapon—and stained with blood as it was—as a very good proof of the man’s guilt.
However, so as not to vex Marie, and because he could not, in legal words, prove
his case, he made no remark. For the next quarter of an hour they examined the
gems, and, becoming absorbed in this one and that, (so beautiful were the
objects), both quite forgot the discovery of the stiletto which seemed to
incriminate the collector. Marie tried the effect of several jewels against her
fair skin and admired herself in the mirror over the fireplace. Amongst the
loose ornaments—for some of the gems were set in gold—she found a curious ring
of silver entirely circled by precious stones. “Isn’t that odd, Alan,” she
asked, slipping it on her finger, “and how uncomfortable to wear, dear. The
stones go right round and hurt one so between the fingers. Oh!” she pulled it
off, “I could never wear that with pleasure. Perhaps it is a nose ring—one of
the Begum’s treasures.”

Fuller examined the object, which was a broad band of silver set with gems at
various intervals, entirely round its circle. “It’s not of Indian workmanship,
Marie,” he said, after a pause; “there’s an English look about it. I wonder why
the stones are set all round it, though?”

Marie peering over his shoulder pointed out a point that had escaped Alan’s
attention. “See, there is a letter,” she observed, “it’s a ‘K.’ Look, Alan,
between that bit of coral and that pearl.”

“So there is. I wonder what ‘K’ means,” Alan mused, then threw back his head
trying to remember something. “I have heard of a ring set round with stones
before,” he said thoughtfully, “and it was explained to me why the gems were all
over it. Who has that ring? Oh!”—a memory suddenly came into his mind——“it was
my grandmother who showed it to me when I was a tiny boy. It was a golden ring
with six stones, and each meant a letter.”

“How do you mean meant a letter, dear?” asked Marie, greatly puzzled, “and what
word did it make?”

“Regard,” answered Alan carelessly, “the first word of each stone-name gave the
meaning: Ruby, emerald, garnet, amethyst, ruby again, and diamond.”

“Regard,” repeated Marie, clapping her hands. “Oh, how clever. You must give me
a ring like that some day, Alan. Only we’ll have love on it. Lapis lazuli, opal,
and—and—what precious stone begins with ‘V,’ Alan?”

“There is none,” he said smiling at her earnestness, and glancing at the silver
ring he still toyed with, “no more than there is a gem beginning with ‘K.’ I
expect the maker of this ring chose a word which contained that letter, and as
he could not suggest a stone, engraved the word on the silver in this fashion.
Strange that he had not more foresight.”

“Let us see what the word is, Alan,” cried Marie much excited, “begin with the
letter ‘K.’ That’s a start. Next is a piece of coral—that’s ‘C.’

“Then an opal standing for ‘O,’ another piece of coral——”

“C,” said Marie anxiously, “an amethyst for ‘A,’ an emerald for ‘E’——”

“And a pearl for ‘P.’ The word therefore reads K. C. O. C. A. E. P. And that, my
dear, makes nonsense,” finished Fuller with disgust. “Spell it backwards,”
suggested the girl, “we may as well try all ways.”

Almost before she ended, Alan, following her advice, had arrived at the truth
swiftly. “Peacock!” he shouted, “Marie, this ring was made by Simon Ferrier.”

“But it isn’t of Indian workmanship,” she protested. “No; but Ferrier, although
he learned from Indian jewellers, was an English workman first of all.
Peacock”—he twirled the ring——“Darling, I really and truly believe that we have
discovered the secret.”

“Oh Alan! oh Alan!” the girl shrieked in her excitement and ran to the table
quickly, “I see your meaning. We take these stones in the tail and—”

“And read them as we have done those of the ring, making the first letter of
each stone stand to spell the word. “Yes! yes! yes!” Marie clapped her hands.
“But there is more than one word in that tail, Alan. Oh—perhaps it indicates the
hiding-place?”

“I’m sure it does,” cried Fuller, taking out a pencil. “Marie, read out the
stones in order, beginning at the top, and I’ll set them down.”

Almost too excited to speak, the girl did so with sparkling eyes, and the result
when finished was as follows, with the three lines and the triangle of rubies,
indicated plainly:

triangle

Sapphire, Turquoise, Pearl, Emerald, Turquoise, Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire, Pearl,
Opal, Onyx, Lapis lazuli. Ruby, Emerald, Diamond. Alan rapidly set down in order
the first letter of each stone, and Marie, looking over his shoulder saw that
they read thus:—

“ST PETER’S POOL triangle RED”

“Oh,” she cried with a grasp. “St. Peter’s Pool, the triangle, red,” murmured
Alan, still perplexed, till the feminine intuition of the girl came to his aid.
“It’s the well,” she cried, “St. Peter’s Well in St. Peter’s Dell, can’t you
see. The jewels are hidden in some place marked with a red triangle. Oh I am
sure of it, because the word is ‘red,’ and the stones of the triangle are
rubies.”

“By heaven, Marie! I believe you are right.”

“Of course I am. Simon Ferrier came back to England to hide the jewels.”

“No Marie, he returned to give them to Julian Inderwick. But since that man was
a profligate and would have squandered them, Ferrier evidently hid them
somewhere about St. Peter’s Well, or pool, as he calls it on the tail of the
bird, and marked the hiding-place with a red triangle. And of course, if George
Inderwick had been able to read the riddle he would easily have found the gems.
My word!” Alan stared at the golden bird, now reft of the secret it had held for
so long, “and to think that the solution is so easy after all. Why those rings
such as I have described my grandmother having, are by no means rare.”

“I believe Simon Ferrier did make this silver one,” said Marie, fingering the
article thoughtfully, “since it is a kind of key to the riddle.”

Alan shrugged his shoulders. “I believe that George Inderwick found it as hard
to guess as the mystery of the peacock. At all events he never arrived at the
solution of the thing. And so easy, so easy after all.”

“Perhaps the very ease made it difficult to guess,” suggested Marie. “Like
Columbus and the egg,” laughed Fuller, taking back a tray of gems to the hiding-
place. “Let us put these away, Marie, and then go down to the well. We must
close the panel in case that man Moon left behind should come in and learn too
much.” He was thinking of the stiletto as he spoke. “Oh, that is all right,”
said Miss Inderwick, assisting to replace the jewels; “he went away this
morning. Inspector Moon sent him a wire saying he was to go back to town.”

“Oh!” said Alan thoughtfully, as he closed the panel, and it resumed its
innocent look. “I expect Moon has given up all hope of Sorley returning to this
place. Well, I expect he is right. It would be foolish of your uncle, dear, to
thrust his head into the lion’s jaws.”

“I am sure he will return and prove his innocence,” cried Marie resolutely; “and
won’t he be pleased when he learns that we have found the Begum’s jewels, Alan?”

“We haven’t found them yet,” answered Fuller, determined in his own mind that
whether innocent or guilty the man should not meddle with the girl’s property.
“Let us go and look, Marie. Ask Henny or Jenny for a crowbar.”

“What for?”

“We must pry up the stone under which the treasure is hidden. I expect, as you
suggest, that it is marked with a red triangle.”

“I don’t expect we have a crowbar,” said Miss Inderwick dubiously, but went into
the back part of the house on her errand, nevertheless, while Alan took his way
to St. Peter’s dell. He surveyed what Ferrier had called “The Pool” in his
cryptogram, and expected that he had done so, since there was no gem’s name
beginning with “W” which he could have placed in the peacock’s tail. The man had
engraved the letter “K” on the ring as a hint to his master, as was evident, but
had not taken the same liberty with the peacock, since it might solve the riddle
too easily. “And hang it, how easy it was after all,” said Alan, who could not
get over this point. Then, while awaiting the coming of Marie, he surveyed the
well. There it was, standing amongst the still leafless trees, and amidst the
rank slushy grasses, a circle of stone, surmounted by the wooden canopy with its
mellow red roof. The windlass was rotten with age, and the rope, formerly used
to wind up the bucket, was conspicuous by its absence, as was the bucket itself.
Fuller peered into the depths and saw the water far down twinkling like a star
in the uncertain light, which filtered to the depths. The sides of the well were
of massive masonry, green with moss and slime, while the circle above ground was
overgrown with herbage. In the hope of finding the marked stone, he began to
tear away the grasses and briars and ivy, scratching his hands considerably as
he did so. To save these he put on his stout deerskin gloves, which he
fortunately had slipped into his pocket. Marie found him thus occupied. “We have
a crowbar after all,” she cried, bending under the article she mentioned, along
with a spade and a coil of rope. “One of the workmen who was building a new wall
at the back of the house, left it a year ago.”

“Why have you brought the rope, Marie?”

“I thought you might have to go down the well,” she said quickly, “we can fasten
it to the windlass.”

Alan eyed the same dubiously. “I fear it’s too rotten to support us, or rather
to support me,” he remarked; “and we may not have to explore the depths of the
well.”

“The pool, the pool,” cried Marie, throwing down her load; “why do you drag away
those grasses, Alan?”

He explained, and she saw the necessity of helping, although to save her tender
hands he transferred his gloves to her. The two, buoyed up with the hope of
treasure went to work with a will and soon the cemented circle of gray stones
round the well was quite bare. Alan searched, as did Marie, but on no stone,
could they find the desired red triangle. “It must be down the well,” said
Fuller with a shrug; “but I’m not going to trust that rotten windlass. “Tie the
rope to this tree,” said Marie pointing to a young beech which was growing close
to the opening, and, as Alan thought this was an excellent idea—he gave her a
kiss for the suggestion—he fastened the rope to its trunk and then made a
slipknot, which he bound under his arms. “Now dear take a turn on the rope round
the tree and lower me gently, that will prevent the strain being too great.”

“I hope so,” said Miss Inderwick, doing as she was told. “I don’t want you to be
drowned.”

Alan slipped over the edge of the well, and the rope grew taunt from himself to
the beech, where the several twists round the trunk stopped the drag being too
great on Marie. Nevertheless she felt anxious when she saw her lover disappear
into the dark depths. “Oh do take care, darling,” she cried holding on to the
rope at the part beyond the twists round the beech-tree trunk, “do take care.”

A laugh came up which sounded very clearly, for Alan was only a few feet below
the surface. He looked round and round, twisting himself with his hands, and
thrusting his toes into the crevices of the stones to gain foothold, and not to
strain either the beech-tree’s strength or that of the girl. But the moss and
the lichens grew so thickly that he could not see the surface of the stonework,
and therefore could espy no triangle. And small wonder, since it was over one
hundred years since the treasure had been stowed away by Inderwick’s faithful
servant. “I wish I had a knife,” muttered Alan, and Marie heard him. “Get out of
the well, and I’ll fetch one,” she said fastening the rope to the tree trunk
firmly; “I sha’n’t be a minute,” and she flew up the path. “Bring a carving-
knife,” Alan shouted after her, getting his head above the surface circle of
stones, and Marie waved her hand to show that she heard him. But he did not get
out of the well, as she advised, but braced his feet and shoulders against the
masonry and continued his examination. But when she returned with the knife he
was still at fault. “Clever darling,” he said, taking the carving-knife and
dropping down again. Then he went to work, while Marie called out every now and
then from the beech-tree to know if he was safe. Everywhere he scraped the moss
off the stones and laid bare one row after the other, but for at least one hour
he failed to find what he sought. He was just thinking that it would be as well
to get out and have a rest, particularly as Marie was imploring him to do so,
when suddenly she heard him shout. “Dear, have you found it?” she cried, not
daring to leave the rope or the tree, lest the first might slip from the last.
“Yes! yes. Here is the red triangle marked on the fourth row of stones—on one
big one, that is. Tie up the rope, Marie and give me the crowbar. I won’t need
to descend further.”

The girl did as she was told, and leaning over the edge of the well, handed her
lover the crowbar. Already Alan had worked away at the interstices of the marked
stone with the knife point. He deepened these sufficiently to slip in the point
of the crowbar, which was rather blunt, and then began to strain in his effort
to loosen the block. Marie anxiously looking down, heard him breathing hard with
the effort, and implored him to take a rest. But Fuller was too anxious to find
the treasure to do so, and with aching arms and legs—for he was resting his
weight on them with his toes in a crevice—worked away desperately. Little by
little, the mortar in the interstices of the block crumbled, as he drove in the
crowbar, and finally the stone became so loose that he could ease it with his
fingers. Again he shouted, and this time with relief, as the big stone splashed
down into the dark waters below. “Have you got it, Alan?” cried Marie, quite
sick with excitement. “Yes, I think so.” He was feeling in the dark hole which
the displaced stone had revealed; “but it doesn’t seem to be very much. Only a
small box. Oh Marie, there can’t be many jewels in this.” He handed up as he
spoke a tin box of no great size, which Marie received with manifest
disappointment, and went on groping. However he found nothing else, so emerged
from the well, with his clothes considerably damaged, and with a red perspiring
face, for the task had made him quite hot. “How can we open the thing?” asked
Marie, when they sat on the edge of the well to examine the box, “It’s locked.”

“Pooh! it’s only tin,” said Alan, and looked rather annoyed. “What a sell if
this little thing contains the whole treasure.”

“Perhaps it’s a big diamond,” said Marie, watching her lover pry open the locked
lid with the edge of the spade. “Perhaps,” assented Alan dubiously, and worked
away hard. It was not an easy job, in spite of the box being merely tin, but in
the end he managed to get the lid off. “Huh! it’s only papers.”

And that was all. Papers wrapped up in linen to preserve them from damp, though
the box was dry enough, since it had been hermetically sealed by the stone
block. One paper, on examination, proved to be a statement signed by the Begum
and Rajah of Kam and their vizier, saying that the jewels, which were
enumerated, had been given to George Inderwick because he had saved the life of
the royal woman and her son. Then there was a letter to Inderwick written by
Ferrier, which stated that he had placed the jewels in Yarbury’s Bank, Monks
Lane, Cheapside, London. “To be given up to you when you produce to Mr. Yarbury
the peacock of jewels,” ended the instructions. CHAPTER XVIII THE TREASURE HUNT

“Have you the papers, Alan?”

“Yes dear.”

“And the key which came out of that box?”

“Yes, dear.”

“Then I have the golden peacock in this bag of Uncle Ran’s,” ended Marie, quite
satisfied that all was well. With Fuller she occupied a first-class carriage of
the London express from Lewes, and the two had it all to themselves, since Alan
had bribed the guard to keep out other passengers. As the lovers were so excited
over their solution of the riddle and their discovery—if not of the treasure—at
least of certain evidence that the same existed, it was little to be wondered at
that they could talk of nothing else. Hence the necessity for a compartment all
to themselves, for they did not wish anyone else to know of their newly-acquired
fortune, until it was in their own possession. Then Alan intended to advertise
the affair far and wide through the medium of the daily newspapers, so that Mr.
Sorley—wherever he might be—should become cognizant of the fact, as well as Mr.
Morad-Bakche. It was just as well to let both these gentlemen know that Miss
Inderwick had the jewels, and intended to keep them. Fuller was quite certain
that he could safeguard her interests in every way, should the Indian try to
gain what he had come so far to seek. As to Mr. Sorley, that gentleman being in
his present straits, scarcely counted. But Marie wished him to know the truth,
as she believed he would then return. Alan was of a different opinion. On the
previous evening there had been great excitement at the vicarage when the lovers
returned from their investigations and told the story of how they had guessed
the riddle together, besides narrating, with much wealth of detail, the search
down the well. Both Mr. and Mrs. Fuller had expressed the greatest surprise, as
well they might, and both congratulated Marie on her good fortune. If indeed the
jewels—as was hinted in Ferrier’s story—were worth from one to two hundred
thousand pounds, she would indeed be able to restore the family prestige and
repair The Monastery. And then, as Marie intimated firmly, she intended to
become Alan’s wife, a declaration which Mrs. Fuller received with unfeigned joy,
as she loved Marie as fondly as though she were her own flesh and blood. The
vicar also was gratified, as of course if his son became the Squire of Belstone,
that fact would help him greatly in controlling the parish. On the whole they
had a very happy evening, and when Marie returned to The Monastery, she could
not close an eye. Also next morning when Alan met her to catch the express, she
informed him that she had heard strange noises during the night, and had been
rather terrified. But of these things the two did not talk much until they were
travelling towards London, and until Marie had assured herself that both she and
Alan possessed the necessary articles to secure possession of the jewels. There
was the letter of Simon Ferrier, and the signed agreement that the gems belonged
to George Inderwick, besides a curiously shaped brass key which was supposed to
open the box of gems now at Yarbury’s Bank, Monks Lane, Cheapside, London.
Finally Marie held tightly on to the bag which contained the golden peacock
without the production of which she would not be able to take the jewels away,
as she intended to do. “And I only hope,” said Alan, when they were both
satisfied that all was in order, “that Yarbury’s Bank is still in existence.”

“Oh, Alan! I hope so. Why shouldn’t it be?”

“Well the jewels were deposited there one hundred and fifty years ago more or
less my dear, and it is possible that the bank may have smashed. There have been
plenty of panics during the century.”

“What would have become of the gems had the bank smashed?” asked Marie in a
timid and rather tearful voice, for it was a terrible thought to think that her
dreams might dissolve into thin air. Alan shrugged his shoulders. “Really, my
dear, I can’t say. They might be passed on to another bank, or might remain with
the reconstructed old one. On the other hand they may have been stolen and
dispersed. I never heard tell of Yarbury’s Bank myself; but then I am not
closely acquainted with what goes on in the city.”

“I daren’t think of it not being there,” shuddered Miss Inderwick. “Oh it would
be a shame if we lost everything at the eleventh hour.”

“Well,” said Fuller with a philosophy he was very far from feeling, “let us hope
for the best, and talk of other things until we arrive at Monks Lane. These
noises, Marie? weren’t you dreaming?”

“No, dear, no. Certainly not. I was wide awake. I fancied I heard a scream; it
sounded like the cry of a woman in distress. Then there were footsteps—muffled
footsteps far below. Of course The Monastery is haunted, so I thought it was the
ghosts.”

“Are there more than one?” asked Alan, suppressing a skeptical smile. “Oh yes.
There are two monks, and one cavalier, and a lady who has no head at all,” said
Marie solemnly. “Granny knows all the stories, and some of them are just horrid.
This morning when I told her about the noises, she said that Henny and Jenny and
she had heard them several times during the last week, but she believed they
were only the ghosts. Granny is quite proud that we should have them, as we are
such an old family.”

Alan shuddered. “Well, dear, I sincerely hope that when we live at The
Monastery, these uneasy spirits will take their departure. I don’t believe in
ghosts; all the same, I don’t like odd noises. Marie,” he sat up suddenly as a
thought struck him. “I know what you’re going to say, Alan,” she cried quickly.
“What?” He looked at her sharply. “That the noises might have been made by Uncle
Ran.”

“Yes I did, my dear. It is just possible that he may have come back secretly to
The Monastery, knowing that Moon would not search there. And a very good idea it
would be if he did; safe as houses.”

Marie shook her head solemnly. “No. If Uncle Ran had returned he would have let
me know, since he could be certain that I would not betray him. And he would
require food and drink, which would be another reason for him to let me know he
was hiding. No, Alan. I tell you the cry I heard was that of a woman, and I
believe that Miss Grison is in the house.”

Fuller stared. “What on earth put that into your head?”

“Well, she knows all the secret passages and chambers of The Monastery better
than I do, since she lived there for so long before I was born. As Uncle Ran had
the peacock, she may have thought that he left it behind, and may have come down
to steal it. She uttered that cry I am sure.”

“I don’t think so,” said Fuller scouting the idea, “She wouldn’t be such a fool,
Marie. However, when we have been to Yarbury’s Bank—if the blessed place still
exists, that is—we can drive to Thimble Square, and see if she is in or out of
London.”

“She’s out of it, and in The Monastery,” cried Miss Inderwick very decisively,
“It’s no use talking, Alan, I am sure it was she I heard screaming. And if she
is there—which I am sure of—she will probably let that horrid Indian into the
house, so that he can take the peacock. I sha’n’t sleep there to-night, Alan,
but at the vicarage, I don’t want to be murdered by that Mr. Bakche as he
murdered poor——”

“Marie, that is all theoretical.”

“I don’t care, it is true,” insisted Marie, and although Fuller argued the point
until they arrived at Victoria Station, she still held to her opinion, rather to
the young man’s annoyance. He had not thought Miss Inderwick was so obstinate,
and told her as much in a most provoking manner, whereat the girl pouted. Of
course Alan had to kiss her into a more amiable mood and admit that he was
entirely wrong, and make sundry apologies for being the most disagreeable man in
the world. The two were driving along Piccadilly in a taxi, before this comedy
was finished, as such comedies always do, with the subjugation of the stronger
by the weaker. “And you’re quite horrid, aren’t you?” finished Marie, pinching
his arm. “Quite,” admitted Alan gravely. “And I’m an angel.”

“Rather; an archangel if you like!”

“Then I forgive you, dear. No, don’t kiss me. You’ll spoil the set of my hat,
and make the driver turn round. And—and—oh Alan,” she suddenly dropped her
bantering tone and became anxious. “I do hope Yarbury’s Bank is in existence.
Where did you tell the man to drive to?”

“Monks Lane, Cheapside, dear. As he is doing so, thank heaven _that_ is yet in
existence. So much we have to be thankful for.”

In Cheapside, and at the entrance of a narrow side street which the driver
assured them was the lane in question, they alighted, and walked down it after
the taxi had been dismissed. Both Marie and Alan crooked their necks staring
upward to see the much-desired name; but not finding it, the lawyer asked an
office-boy who came out of a near building if he could direct him to Yarbury’s
Bank. To the relief of the couple, an answer came terse and sharp, that it was
number twenty, just round the corner, which meant that the place was situated
where the lane suddenly, so to speak, crooked an elbow. “Oh thank goodness!”
murmured Marie, when they came face to face with a very dingy building, black
with age and grime, and wedged in between two tall houses which overtopped it
considerably. “It’s Yarbury’s!”

“Sure enough,” replied Fuller, staring hard at the wire blinds—half blinds they
were—which displayed the magic name in dull gold letters. “Cheer up, Marie;
since the bank is here, we are certain to find the treasure.”

“I hope so,” answered the girl doubtfully, “but I shall believe nothing until I
see the gems with my very own eyes.”

Alan laughed, and led the way into a broad and low room of vast proportions
filled with mahogany counters, protected by shining brass railings, and a number
of desks, high and low, with shaded electric lamps over each; for the place was
darkish even at noon. A number of clerks were busy with the usual business of
the bank, and two or three customers were paying in, and drawing out money. On
inquiring if the manager could be seen, a message was sent and an answer
received that the great man would accord an interview to the strangers. Alan
sent in his card and that of Miss Inderwick, and after another short delay the
two were conducted into a fair-sized room at the very back of the building, to
be welcomed by an elderly gentleman with white hair and a brisk expression. He
was small and neat and very well dressed, and his manners were scrupulously
polite. Yet as he placed a couple of chairs for his visitors, Alan noticed that
he cast a curious glance at Marie. “What can I do for you?” he asked, addressing
himself to Fuller. “You are the manager of Yarbury’s Bank?” inquired Alan rather
unnecessarily, but anxious to be quite sure of his ground. “Certainly. Berwick
is my name, and I have been in charge for some years.”

“It is a very old bank, isn’t it?” asked Marie timidly. “Very, my dear young
lady!”

“One hundred and fifty years more or less,” put in Fuller suddenly. “More rather
than less,” said Mr. Berwick with a genial smile, “but how do you know, Mr.—er,”
he glanced at the card lying on his table, “Mr. Fuller?”

“If you know the name of Inderwick, Mr. Berwick, you may have some idea of how I
come to know.”

Again Berwick cast a look in Marie’s direction. “Inderwick! Yes, I do know that
name. It was mentioned in the newspapers some little time ago, and had to do
with a murder case connected with Rotherhithe.”

“And with a peacock,” said Marie quickly. “Yes.” Berwick scratched his chin
meditatively. “It was supposed—I am quoting from the newspapers—that the man at
Rotherhithe was murdered for the sake of the peacock, not a living bird, of
course, but a certain ornament.”

Marie nodded. “Which is the luck of our family,” she finished. “Oh, then you are
one of the Inderwicks of Belstone?”

“Yes,” said Alan slowly, “she is the last representative of the family, and the
heiress of George Inderwick. Do you know that name?”

“I do,” assented Berwick alertly. “On reading the newspapers it led to my
recalling certain transactions, which—but pardon me.” Mr. Berwick interrupted
himself, “how can I be sure that this is Miss Inderwick?”

Marie was about to indignantly assert that she alone had the right to the name,
when Alan prevented her. “That is a very natural question, sir,” he remarked,
opening the black bag, “perhaps this will assure you of the identity of this
young lady.”

Berwick stared when the peacock in all its glittering glory was placed under the
electric light, and his ruddy face grew a trifle pale as he pushed back his
chair uneasily. “It’s the peacock,” he muttered. “You know about the peacock
then?” questioned Alan sharply. “Yes! When taking charge of the affairs of
Yarbury’s Bank I looked into all business old and new; also searching amongst
old documents and examining deeds and papers dealing with various transactions
which are in our strong-rooms below. I came across the account of the peacock,
and the meaning of the peacock, belonging to George Inderwick, although a
certain box which had to do with that bird was placed here by Simon Ferrier.”

“Inderwick’s servant,” said Alan dryly, “hum! it seems to me that we are on the
right track, Marie.”

She nodded again, but Mr. Berwick, who still seemed much perturbed, moistened
his lips and spoke unsteadily. “I can certainly supply you with information,
which I can guess you require; but before doing so, I should like to send for
Inspector Moon.”

“But why——” began Marie hotly, only to be interrupted by her lover. “I quite
understand what you mean, Mr. Berwick,” he said calmly, “and, of course, under
the circumstances, it is necessary that you should take every precaution to
safeguard the interests of the bank.”

“Precaution, Mr. Fuller?” stammered the manager uneasily. “I also,” continued
the lawyer imperturbably, “have read the account in the newspapers of the
interview with Miss Louisa Grison. She declared therein that if the peacock were
discovered, the assassin of her brother could be brought to justice. Is that not
so?”

“Yes,” admitted Berwick readily, “it is so.”

“Since we have brought the peacock, which it is necessary to do, in order for
Miss Inderwick to obtain possession of the box deposited here over one hundred
years ago by Simon Ferrier, you naturally wish to know how we come to possess
it.”

“But surely Mr. Berwick doesn’t think that we murdered Mr. Grison to obtain
this,” said Marie indignantly, touching the glowing splendor of the bird. “No!
no! no!” the manager assured her hastily, “nothing was further from my thoughts,
my dear young lady. But, as Mr. Fuller sensibly observes, it is necessary for me
to safeguard the interests of the bank.”

“All the same you did think that I or Mr. Fuller had killed Mr. Grison,”
persisted Marie, her obstinacy again coming uppermost. “No! really, really——”

“Never mind,” remarked Alan impatiently, and cutting short the man’s
protestations, “it is natural that Mr. Berwick should suspect us, in the face of
Miss Grison’s statement. Better send for Inspector Moon, who has charge of the
Rotherhithe case; and also I must ask you to send to the office of _The Latest
News_ for Richard Latimer.”

“Why?” asked the man rising and staring. “Because he can prove how I became
possessed of the peacock.”

“I shall do what you ask, and you will excuse me, Mr. Fuller, if I am rather
punctilious in dealing with the matter.”

“I quite understand, Mr. Berwick. The affair is an odd one, and when we tell you
what we know, you will find it even odder than you suspect. In the meantime,
please telephone for Mr. Latimer and Inspector Moon, mentioning my name to both
of them, and Miss Inderwick’s also, if you like.”

With a look of wonder written all over his ruddy face Berwick departed and
personally telephoned for the two necessary persons in question. Marie rather
fumed while he was absent, as woman-like she expected to be taken as genuine on
her bare word. “He thinks we are swindlers,” she said crossly. “And small blame
to him,” rejoined Alan good-humoredly, for it was evident that the gems were all
right, as he judged from Berwick’s hints. “You can’t expect the man, my dear, to
hand over thousands of pounds worth of jewels without making inquiries.’

“The peacock is enough,” said Marie stubbornly. “The peacock is the cause of the
trouble,” retorted her lover; “but here is Mr. Berwick. Well, sir?”

“I have received a reply from both,” said the manager, resuming his seat, and
looking apologetically at Marie, “they will be here as soon as possible. Pardon
me taking these precautions, and perhaps while you are waiting for Inspector
Moon and Mr. Latimer, you will explain how you came to find out that the box of
Ferrier was in our bank?”

“We guessed the riddle,” said Marie suddenly. “Oh!” Berwick looked at the
peacock in a puzzled way. “I knew from what the newspapers said that there was a
riddle to be solved, although I can’t see what this golden ornament has to do
with it. Did you not know that the box was at Yarbury’s Bank?” he addressed Miss
Inderwick. “No; nor did anyone else, Mr. Berwick. Only when Mr. Fuller and I
guessed the riddle did we learn the whereabouts of the box. It is here then?”

“Certainly,” Mr. Berwick assured her promptly, “and has been here for over one
hundred years. When I looked into matters on taking charge of the bank, I, like
all former managers, became acquainted with the fact that a box of jewels had
been deposited with us by Simon Ferrier on behalf of his master, George
Inderwick, shortly after the Battle of Plassey. We have the letter of
instructions concerning it.”

“What are the instructions?” asked Alan. “The box of jewels is to be held by the
bank authorities, whom I at present represent, until someone brings a certain
golden peacock studded with gems, certain papers explaining the peacock, and
others dealing with the transfer of the jewels from the Rajah and Begum of Kam
to George Inderwick, and finally a key which will fit the box.”

Marie looked at Alan, who brought out the objects named. “There you are, Mr.
Berwick,” and he placed them under the manager’s very nose. “Oh, ah, excuse me,”
said Berwick, deeply interested at the sight of the old documents, and forthwith
devoted himself to reading them. As the English was odd, to say the least of it,
and the handwriting was crabbed—apparently that of a somewhat uneducated
person—he was some time deciphering what was before him. Both Marie and Alan
waited his pleasure quietly. “I am quite satisfied,” he said when he finished
his reading, “that these are the necessary papers, and the key can speak for
itself if it fits the lock of the steel box. Meanwhile, and until our two
friends arrive, Mr. Fuller, perhaps you and Miss Inderwick will explain how you
came to guess the riddle which is referred to in the letter from Simon Ferrier
to his master.”

“And you can tell him also how we come to have the peacock,” said Marie, who
still felt annoyed by the suspicious attitude of Berwick, although that was
considerably modified by the production of the papers and the key. “No,” said
Alan decisively, “I shall tell that when Moon and Latimer arrive; there is no
need to repeat the story twice. But it will serve to while away the time if we
tell Mr. Berwick about the riddle.”

“Certainly it will,” said the manager in a lively tone; “and don’t be angry with
me, Miss Inderwick, I must protect the interests of the bank, you know.”

Marie smiled and began to be somewhat ashamed of her irritation. “You must
excuse me, Mr. Berwick,” she said cleverly, “but the discovery of my fortune has
somewhat excited my nerves.”

“Very natural, very natural indeed. Well, Mr. Fuller, what about the riddle?”

Fuller lost no time, but related the various stages by which he and Marie had
been led to guess the mystery of the peacock’s tail. He produced the silver ring
by way of illustration, and finally convinced Mr. Berwick of the manner in which
the secret had been discovered. “And the annoying part of the whole business,”
concluded Alan, “is that the riddle is so easy.”

“When guessed, Mr. Fuller, when guessed,” said Berwick staring at the peacock,
“but I assure you that I don’t wonder it has been hard to solve, and had not the
accident of the silver ring, or rather that of the letter ‘K’ on the silver ring
led you to the truth, I doubt if you would ever have solved it.” Berwick still
eyed the bird steadily. “Most extraordinary! Ferrier was too clever, however, if
I may say so; he concealed the treasure so well that the man he intended to
benefit never did. Fate——” he bowed gallantly to Marie—— “reserved the gems of
the Begum for fairer hands.”

“Then you will give me the box,” said Marie, timidly. “Of course; it rightfully
belongs to you, since you have fulfilled the conditions of Ferrier’s letter of
instructions to the then manager of Yarbury’s Bank. Here is the key, the
peacock, the letter of Ferrier to his master, and the assignment of the jewels
to the same person by the rulers of Kam. Oh yes, Miss Inderwick, the fortune is
yours, and I congratulate you.”

“What is the value of the jewels?” asked Alan abruptly, and drawing a breath of
relief when he heard this speech. “Really I can’t tell you, Mr. Fuller. There is
no mention of their value in the letter of instructions, and of course the box
has never been open, since only the key you have brought can do that. Then——”

Berwick was interrupted by a clerk entering with a card inscribed with the name
of Latimer, and Dick entered all alive with curiosity to hear why he had been
summoned to such an unexpected place. After greeting Miss Inderwick and his
friend he began to ask eager questions, which Alan proceeded to answer, until
Inspector Moon arrived a few moments later. The officer opened his eyes wide
when he saw the golden peacock on the table. “How did it come here?” he asked
suspiciously, and looked at the company. Berwick explained the circumstances of
Alan and Miss Inderwick’s visit, and gave both Moon and Latimer an account of
the trust held by Yarbury’s Bank. Then Fuller explained more directly about the
peacock. “Sorley called at my chambers on that night he escaped,” said Alan,
addressing the astonished inspector. “Mr. Latimer and I took him to Miss Grison
as he wished her to acknowledge certain things. He intended to give himself up,
but—as I learned—he ran away at the eleventh hour. Have you arrested him yet,
Mr. Inspector?”

“No. We have searched far and wide, but he is still at large. Still, Mr. Fuller,
this explanation doesn’t show how you became possessed of the peacock.”

“Mr. Sorley left it behind in this black bag,” said Alan readily, “you may
remember, Mr. Inspector, that when you were taking him away, he called out to me
to remember the black bag. I did not know what he meant, but when Mr. Latimer
and I returned to our chambers, we found the bag there, and in it the golden
peacock.”

This seemed satisfactory to Moon, especially as Latimer vouched for the truth of
the story. “Sorley is undoubtedly guilty,” he remarked, and Alan had to press
Marie’s arm to prevent her bursting out with an indignant denial, “but you
should have brought the peacock to me.”

“Not at all, Mr. Inspector,” said Fuller coolly and resolutely, “that is the
property of Miss Inderwick here, and was stolen by Miss Grison over twenty years
ago, because she thought that Mr. Sorley had treated her brother in a cruel way.
It is only just that it should return to its owner, and I don’t think that you
can take possession of it.”

“No,” said Moon reluctantly, “I suppose not, since Miss Inderwick certainly
possesses it legally, and came by it—according to your story, vouched for by Mr.
Latimer—in a perfectly honest way. I understand from hints given, Mr. Fuller,
that you have solved the riddle alluded to by Miss Grison in her published
statement.”

“Have you, Fuller?” asked Latimer in excited tones. “Yes. Marie and I found it
out, more by accident than in any logical way, Dick. See here!” and to Moon and
the other man Fuller explained the method pursued, and showed the meaning of the
precious stones in the tail of the bird. Berwick chuckled and rubbed his hands
at the astonishment displayed by the newcomers, then quietly left the room.
While Moon and Latimer were still expressing their surprise, and examining the
bird, Berwick returned with one of the clerks carrying a good-sized box. “Here
are the jewels,” he said expansively, when the clerk had been dismissed, and the
box was placed on the table. “Use the key, Miss Inderwick.”

They all crowded round to admire the box, which in itself was really curious and
artistic. It was of polished steel, greatly tarnished by damp and age and sundry
batterings which might be ascribed to its career in India before Ferrier had
used it to store the jewels. The steel was enclosed in a network of delicate
brass, scrolled and twisted and plaited and woven in a most elaborate manner. It
was deep and rather large, which augured well for the quantity of gems it
contained. Marie with a fluttering heart inserted the key, while the others
looked on eagerly. She had some difficulty in turning it, since the lock had not
been used for so long; but Alan aided her with his strong wrist, and with a
click the key did its work. Then appeared the sandalwood lining of the box and a
rich piece of Indian silk covering the contents. Miss Inderwick twitched this
away, and a cry of amazement and admiration rose from everyone. In the glare of
the light a perfect glory of color and radiance flashed out. “Why, there must be
a million pounds’ worth,” muttered Moon, astonished. He might well say so, for
the sight was enough to bewilder a miser. No pearls were visible, as they would
have lost their color in the long darkness to which the gems had been submitted.
But there were emeralds, rubies, sapphires and opals of many hues. Some of the
precious stones were loose and polished, while others, also loose, were uncut.
Still many jewels were set in various golden and silver ornaments, such as nose-
rings, bangles, anklets, brooches, belts, and adornments for the head. Four
trays piled with these treasures were lifted from the box, and at the very
bottom, lying on a pad of rose-colored silk, were many loose diamonds glittering
with multi-hued fires like the suns of innumerable solar systems. It was a royal
heritage that Marie had entered into possession of, and worthy of a princess.
“And all for you and me, Alan,” she whispered, joyously slipping her hand into
that of her lover. “No more trouble now, dear.”

“Well,” said Moon, reflectively. “I don’t wonder that Sorley risked his neck for
an Arabian Nights’ heap of jewels of this sort.”

“He did not,” cried Miss Inderwick, who could not be restrained this time; “my
uncle is perfectly innocent.”

“For your sake I sincerely trust that he is, Miss Inderwick,” said Moon in grave
tones; “and I hope he will prove your trust in him by giving himself up to the
law. But this is not the time or place to talk of these things, and I do not
wish to spoil your pleasure in inheriting a fortune of gems sufficiently
beautiful to make a queen envious.”

“I shall devote the fortune to proving my uncle’s innocence,” said Marie
haughtily and stubbornly. “In the meanwhile, Mr. Berwick, put the box back in
your strong-room along with tile peacock.”

“Don’t you wish to take it away with you?” asked Alan quickly. “No. I don’t like
those noises in The Monastery, and I am sure that Miss Grison and that horrid
Indian have something to do with them. If I took the gems down she and he would
steal them.”

“Noises,” repeated Inspector Moon reflectively, “and in Mr. Sorley’s house?”

“It is my house,” said Marie quickly, “and if Miss Grison is down there, I shall
order her out.”

“You will be quite right in doing so, Miss Inderwick,” said Inspector Moon with
a bow, “and now I shall take my leave with renewed congratulations.”

He went out repeating under his breath the word “Noises!” and Alan overhearing
guessed that Marie’s statement had aroused his suspicions as to the whereabouts
of the much-wanted Sorley. He hoped that, after all, these same noises were due
to Miss Grison, and felt anxious to call at Thimble Square after the box of gems
and the peacock had been carried back to the strong-room of Yarbury’s Bank. “Let
us visit Miss Grison now, Marie,” he said when they were in Monks Lane again,
with Dick beside them. “You won’t find her at home,” said Latimer. “I called,
but she has gone away.”

Marie turned triumphantly to Alan. “There!” she cried, “what did I tell you, my
dear? That horrid woman is hiding in The Monastery after all.”

CHAPTER XIX AT DAWN

It had been Alan’s intention to send Marie back to Belstone by herself, and ask
his father to meet her at Lewes, so that she could sleep at the vicarage. He had
spent a great deal of time over the business connected with the murder of Grison
and the finding of the jewels, therefore his clients were being neglected, much
to their annoyance. His days of searching could scarcely have said to have been
wasted, since they had ended in the acquisition of a fortune. Certainly it did
not belong to him, but as he was to marry the girl who possessed it, in the end
he would undoubtedly benefit. All the same he decided that he would have to
attend to his own affairs, and it was only the fact that Miss Grison was not at
Thimble Square, which caused him to change his mind. He therefore returned to
the village with Marie, and what is more, insisted that Dick should return with
him. “We must get to the bottom of these matters,” said Alan late that
afternoon; “and if Marie will not sleep at The Monastery, Dick, you and I must
do so.”

“Oh, Alan,” cried Miss Inderwick nervously, “why need you and Mr. Latimer do
that when there is no need?”

“I think there is every need,” rejoined her lover dryly. “Your remark as to
inexplicable noises has aroused Moon’s suspicions, and I should not be surprised
if he either sent back that detective to keep watch, or came himself to-night or
to-morrow.”

“But how can our sleeping there alter Moon’s intentions?” asked Latimer. “I want
to learn the meaning of these noises, so you and I, Dicky, can keep watch, while
Marie is safe at the vicarage.”

“If the noises are caused by Sorley,” said Dick leisurely, and rather
uncomfortably, “and we find that he has gone to earth there, you can’t expect me
to hold my tongue.”

“Uncle Ran is innocent,” protested Marie furiously. “If he is—and I sincerely
hope for your sake, that such is the case—it will be much better for him to come
forward and face the worst. Otherwise, he will remain a hunted fugitive. Believe
me, Miss Inderwick, by refusing to compound a felony—for that is what silence in
this matter amounts to, as Alan will tell you—I am doing Mr. Sorley a greater
service than you think.”

“I agree with Dick,” said Fuller quickly, and before Marie could make another
protest; “it is best to bring matters to a head. If Mr. Sorley is indeed hiding
at The Monastery, he is bound to be discovered some time, especially after the
unconscious hint you gave Inspector Moon, my dear.”

“I don’t believe Uncle Ran is there,” declared Marie pouting. “If he were he
would look to me to give him food and drink, and he knows—as I said before,
Alan—that he can trust me. It is that horrid woman.”

“If Miss Grison is there, all the more reason Dick and I should sleep in the
house, and learn what she is driving at.”

Latimer nodded. “I’ll come with you, Alan,” he said quickly. “Since Miss Grison
is not in her house, it’s just possible she may be at Belstone.”

“When did you call to see her?”

“Yesterday afternoon,” explained Dick quietly. “I wished to learn how she knew
that her precious brother had murdered a man outside Chin Chow’s opium den.”

“Moon told her that, and she swore that Baldwin was incapable of such a wicked
deed,” replied Alan with a shrug; “she seems to have a most touching belief in
the creature, even though he is dead.”

“Well, I learned that Miss Grison had gone away at noon for a few days.”

“Where has she gone to?” asked Marie sharply. “Her servants could not tell me,
since she has left no address. All she said was that she would be absent for a
few days, and she left her establishment in charge of the head waiter.”

“That secrecy shows that she is at Belstone,” cried Miss Inderwick triumphantly;
“it is just the kind of underhand thing she would do.”

“Well,” said Alan, settling the question, “she may suspect that Sorley is hiding
in The Monastery and may wish to catch him. If she gets into the house, Dick and
I can compel her to state her reason. But indeed, Marie, I don’t see how she
could enter The Monastery without Henny or Jenny or Granny Trent seeing her.”

“You don’t know what a curious house it is, Alan. There are ways of getting out
and in and hiding and spying, which no one would believe. I know of some myself,
but Miss Grison is better acquainted with the place than I, as Granny always
said that she explored the house thoroughly when she was my mother’s companion.
I’m sure you’ll catch her; and if you do, tell her that we have found the
jewels. That will settle her.”

“Nothing will settle her until Sorley is proved innocent or guilty,” said Fuller
gravely. “The woman is obsessed by one idea, and that is revenge. I only wish we
could find Jotty, for he knows a lot, I am sure, which could put things
straight.”

“Jotty can’t be found,” said Latimer lazily, “although Moon and his underlings
are keeping their eyes open. He hasn’t gone back to Miss Grison’s or to Mother
Slaig, either. He has vanished as completely as Mr. Sorley has. However, we
shall see what can be done by our sleeping a night in your old family mansion,
Miss Inderwick. I’ll come down.”

This being settled, the trio went to the station, and in due time arrived at
Lewes. They talked during the journey about the jewels, and Dick had again to
listen to the account of the solution of the riddle, in which, after all, he was
so deeply interested that he did not object to the twice-told tale. Then Marie
chattered about her good fortune, quoted the prophecy which certainly now seemed
to be fulfilled, speculated on the amount of money which the sale of the gems
would bring her, and talked of the improvements she would make in her family
mansion. All this may seem rather heartless, when her uncle was under a cloud of
suspicion; but the girl was so thoroughly convinced that the man was innocent
and that her newly-acquired fortune would enable her to prove his innocence, by
employing the best detective talent to hunt down the true criminal, that she did
not worry over the matter so much as might have been expected. Moreover, her
uncle had always behaved selfishly to her, so she did not think that trouble
would harm him for the time being. Indeed she hoped that it might improve him
into something less egotistical. On arriving at Lewes, they found Mr. Fuller in
person waiting for them in his pony-chaise, bubbling over with unexpected news.
“I am glad you have returned, Marie,” he said, as he assisted the girl to get
in; “a man has been asking for you.”

“Who is he?”

“An Indian gentleman called——”

“Morad-Bakche,” interrupted Alan breathlessly, and with a glance at Dick. “What
does he want with Marie?”

“Perhaps he has learned that I went to Rotherhithe,” murmured Marie, but too low
for the vicar to hear. “I don’t know what he wants,” said Mr. Fuller rather
irritably, “he is stopping at The Red Fox, I hear, having come down this
morning. He called at The Monastery to see Marie, and not finding her there, he
came to the vicarage. He declined to believe that Marie was in town, although
Henny told him so. However I convinced him.”

“You didn’t say why Marie had gone up, father,” said Alan, in alarm. “No no. Why
should I? I simply said that Marie would return, and Mr. Bakche is on the
watch.”

“Don’t see him, Marie,” said Alan quickly. “Dick and I can interview him
privately and learn what he has come about. And father, Marie will sleep to-
night at our house, since she is afraid to remain at The Monastery. I and
Latimer stay there. “Why?” asked the vicar sharply. “Marie will tell you while
you drive back to Belstone, father. We can’t all get into this small trap, so
Dick and I will walk.”

“Very good,” said Mr. Fuller gathering up the reins, “but tell me, both of you,
about the jewels.”

“We have found Yarbury’s Bank and the jewels also,” said Marie gaily, “I can
relate our day’s experience while you drive, dear Mr. Fuller. And, Alan, do come
to the vicarage before you go to sleep at The Monastery.”

“Yes; Dick and I can spend the evening with you and mother and father.
Afterwards we can walk over to your house to sleep there. I shall call and tell
granny—with your permission—to get a couple of beds ready for us. Only don’t you
speak to Morad-Bakche, my darling; refer him to me.”

Marie nodded and waved her hand as the vicar—who was rather bewildered by all
this mystery—drove the pony-chaise out of the station yard. The two young men
braced their muscles and started on the five miles’ tramp to Belstone in very
good spirits. Alan fancied, and communicated his fancy to his friend, that the
presence of Bakche augured good, since the man undoubtedly knew something, and
would be willing to impart it if he shared the fortune. “But why should he?”
objected Dick, lighting his pipe; “the assignment of the gems to George
Inderwick puts him out of court.”

“Marie wants to use some of the money to clear her uncle’s name,” explained Alan
gravely, “and although I don’t like Sorley, I am willing that she should do so.
It will be worth the money.”

“That depends if Bakche can say anything useful,” growled Dick doubtfully. “I am
certain that he can, since he hinted something of the sort to me. He knew Grison
at Rotherhithe also, and knew that he had the peacock.”

“No!” said Latimer, greatly surprised. “Yes, indeed,” and Alan related Marie’s
daring visit to Mother Slaig, and what she had discovered regarding the
movements of the Indian. “She’s a plucky girl,” said Dick, referring to Marie;
“fancy her tackling that horrible old woman. Hum! So Bakche was in the swim
also, was he? I wonder if he murdered the man himself?”

“I don’t think so; but we can ask him, for here he is.”

Fuller’s sharp eyes had seen the tall figure of the Indian almost running along
the high road, and as the atmosphere was very clear he saw at some distance the
brown tint of his face. Bakche met them quite breathless, and explained his
haste. “I came down to see Miss Inderwick,” he said, rather short of wind. “I
met her—in the carriage—with—the—the clergyman. She refers me to you—Mr.—Mr.
Fuller.”

“I am conducting all business on Miss Inderwick’s account,” said Alan in a quiet
tone; “but why are you in such a hurry, Mr. Bakche?”

“I thought that I might lose you. I stay at the village inn to-night, as I
stayed last July; but I wish to see Miss Inderwick this evening, or you as her
representative,” he looked hesitatingly at Latimer. “My friend knows all about
the matter of the Rotherhithe crime,” said Alan quickly, “you can speak frankly
before him.”

“How do you know that I came down to speak of the crime?” asked Bakche in a
haughty tone. “Because you know more about it than you have hitherto chosen to
confess.”

Bakche replied, still haughty, “I object to the word ‘confess,’ Mr. Fuller; I
have no feeling of guilt in the matter.”

“I don’t say that you murdered the man yourself, but you know who did.”

“Perhaps I do,” answered the man significantly; “but you can’t expect me to give
you that information without payment.”

“Oh, if you want money——”

Bakche flushed through the clear brown of his skin. “I do not want money, Mr.
Fuller; a gentleman of my rank does not take money. I only desire a share of the
jewels which rightfully belong to me—the whole of them.”

“I think not,” said Alan, while Latimer kept step beside him in silence, leaving
his friend to adjust matters. “There was a proper assignment of the jewels made
by the Rajah of Kam, the Begum and their vizier. All is in order, Mr. Bakche,
and you have not a leg to stand on.”

The man was silent for a few moments in sheer surprise at this very
authoritative statement. “How do you know this, Mr. Fuller?”

“I read the statement myself, and saw the jewels of——”

“You saw the jewels,” almost shrieked Bakche, clenching and unclenching his
hands; “then you have—you have——” he could speak no further. “Yes,” growled
Dick, breaking his self-imposed silence, “Fuller and Miss Inderwick have solved
the riddle of the peacock, and have found the jewels.”

“Where are they? where are they?”

“In a certain bank in London,” said Alan quickly; “they are there now in Miss
Inderwick’s name along with the peacock.”

“So if you intended to burgle The Monastery,” growled Dick grimly, “you only
waste your time.”

Bakche drew himself up proudly. “You speak to an Indian gentleman, sir.”

“I speak to a man who wants certain jewels, and who will stick at nothing to get
them,” retorted Latimer bluntly; “how do we know but what you may have murdered
Grison?”

“I did not; and,” added the man superciliously, “you will have some difficulty
in proving that I did.”

“I am not so sure of that, Mr. Bakche,” put in Fuller; “after all, Mother Slaig
can prove that you frequently saw Grison at her house.”

Bakche looked startled and turned gray. “How can she prove that?”

“By means of that tattooed snake you have on your right arm.”

“Ah-r-r-r! So you have been making inquiries? No,” Bakche threw up his hand with
a haughty gesture. “I don’t want to hear what you have to say, for I admit that
I often visited the house you mention. I knew that Grison had the peacock
through his sister. She told me. I tried to get it from him, but he refused to
surrender it. But I did not murder him.”

“But you know who did?”

“Perhaps,” said the Indian ambiguously, “only I shall not tell unless Miss
Inderwick—as you suggested yourself, Mr. Fuller—gives me a portion of the
jewels. If they did not belong to me rightfully I should not ask for even a
part. I am,” he drew himself up again, “an Indian gentleman.”

“Well,” said Fuller, who wished to be fair, “I don’t deny but what your family
jewels being given away is hard on you. Miss Inderwick wishes to clear the
character of her uncle, and will be willing to give you some of your own back—I
expect you put it in that way to yourself—if you can denounce the true
murderer.”

“I think I can.”

“Are you not sure.”

“I shall be sure if you can bring me face to face with that boy.”

“Jotty?” cried Latimer, taking his pipe from his mouth. “I always said that the
brat knew a lot.”

“Yes. He knows a lot, and so do I,” answered Bakche smiling dryly. “However you
must give me a night to think over matters. To-morrow I shall call at The
Monastery early in the day, and if we can come to an arrangement you shall have
your minds set at rest. Always,” ended the Indian taking off his cap, “always
presuming that the boy is confronted with me.”

“Do you hint that Jotty is guilty?” asked Fuller suddenly. Bakche, who was
turning away, looked back with an enigmatic smile. “A weak arm can drive a
stiletto into a sleeping man, as easily as can a strong one, sir,” and, still
smiling, he walked off rapidly in the direction of Lewes, evidently objecting to
further questions. “By heaven!” muttered Alan aghast, “he knows the truth.”

“It seems so,” observed Dick with a thoughtful frown, “don’t go after him, Alan.
He will tell us all to-morrow, and you needn’t be afraid of his running away,
since his revelations mean that he gets a share of the gems.”

“But we have to confront him with Jotty; and where is the boy?”

Dick shrugged his shoulders as they resumed their walk to Belstone. “Who knows?
But even if he doesn’t appear Bakche won’t keep silent, for in that case he will
lose his reward. Hum! I wonder if Jotty—as he infers—murdered Grison?”

“Well, Jotty is a greedy little beast, and admired the peacock. As he was a
protégé of Grison and could run in and out of his room at will, it might be that
he stole in when the man was sleeping and killed him. Bakche seems to hint at
that. And then,” added Fuller, warming to his theme, “remember how Miss Grison
took charge of the lad. Perhaps he gave her the peacock and the stiletto, which
she took down to The Monastery to implicate Sorley and revenge herself on him.”

“She denied plainly enough that she took the bird to Belstone,” replied Latimer,
shaking his head, “and if Jotty had the peacock she would have guessed that he
had murdered her brother. Seeing how she loved the man she would not have
condoned Jotty’s crime in any way. No, Alan, I don’t agree with your theory.
Better wait and hear what Bakche has to say and then we can be certain. But the
stiletto? I thought that was missing?”

“From Mother Slaig’s house,” said Alan quickly, “but Marie and I found it in the
secret cupboard where Sorley keeps his own private collection of jewels. Either
he is guilty, and concealed it there, or Jotty—who came to warn him—did so; or
Miss Grison did in some way manage to get the weapon and hide it. But then her
possession of it would certainly entail her knowing the truth, and she would
not—as you said before—spare the murderer of the brother whom she loved so
dearly.”

“Perhaps Bakche is guilty and is using Jotty as a screen,” suggested Dick with a
shrug; “however it is no use speculating, Alan. What we have to do is to watch
to-night in The Monastery in the hope that Sorley has returned there, and to-
morrow hear what the Indian has to say.”

This was very good advice under the circumstances, and the young men took this
very natural course. They arrived at the vicarage in time for dinner after
calling at the big house to arrange with Granny Trent about sleeping there for
the night. All the evening the vicar and his wife asked questions about the
gems, and built castles in the air along with Marie as to the best use to be
made of the money. Mention was made in the course of the evening by Mrs. Fuller
that Miss Grison was staying with her dressmaker friend, and when Alan and Dick
left to take up their quarters at The Monastery, they felt convinced that the
woman had some idea of the whereabouts of her enemy. “She’s on the watch,” said
Fuller, as they walked to the big hole, “and if Sorley really has returned to
hide, she will smell him out. I daresay he treated her and her brother badly,
Dick, for Sorley is an utterly selfish creature, and perhaps deserves what he
has endured. But what a vindictive person Miss Grison is.”

“Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned,” quoted Latimer sententiously, “and
since Sorley scorned his true wife by making love to another woman, and used her
love for her brother to free himself, you can scarcely wonder that she hates him
as the devil hates holy water. She would be more than human if she did not. I am
sorry for Miss Grison, or rather, as we should call her, Mrs. Sorley.”

“She doesn’t want to take that name,” said Alan, shaking his head; “but if her
husband gets off through Bakche’s evidence, she may do so in order to show him
up and spite him. As long as Sorley lives he will have to pay for his behavior.”

“Serve him jolly well right,” said Latimer grimly, and the conversation ended on
the steps of the great house, where Henny Trent stood to receive them. Granny
was annoyed that her young mistress was sleeping at the vicarage, as she
maintained that the noises were only due to ghosts, and that there was nothing
to be feared. She scouted the idea that Sorley had returned, although she
admitted that the old mansion was full of hiding-places where he could conceal
himself. Her point was the same as Marie had mentioned, that the fugitive would
require food, and knowing that all in the house would be loyal to him, he would
not have hesitated to reveal himself had he actually sought refuge at The
Monastery. The young men heard all these arguments passively, without seeking to
contradict them, and then retired to bed wondering if granny was right and they
were wrong, or if the reverse was the case. It is not quite precise to say that
they retired to bed, for they did not remove their clothes, and simply lay down,
ready to spring up when the noises called their attention. They wore slippers,
however, instead of boots so as to move softly about the place, and thus pounce
unawares on anyone—Miss Grison or Sorley—who might be haunting the place. “But
if it is a ghost, Alan, all our dodging and preparations won’t be of much use.”

“I don’t believe in ghosts,” said Alan curtly. “I do,” said Dick with equal
terseness, but was too tired to argue the knotty point, and then they lay down,
clothed as they were, to snatch a few moments of sleep. Latimer certainly fell
into a deep slumber, but his friend was too excited to follow his example. It
occurred to him that if Sorley really were in the house and given to
explorations by night, that he would assuredly haunt the library, if only to
look at his beloved jewels. Hour after hour the young man dwelt on this point,
and by the small hours of the morning had worked himself up to such a pitch of
excitement that he could no longer endure inaction. Without disturbing Dick, who
was sleeping in an adjoining chamber, he rose and stole down the stairs
cautiously, making scarcely any sound, since he carried his slippers in his hand
and walked in his socks. Also he had a revolver in his hip-pocket, lest the
intruder should prove to be Bakche, admitted by Miss Grison through one of the
numerous secret entrances. The Indian would be certain to show fight even if the
woman did not. But of course, as yet Alan had heard no sounds, and was beginning
to think that Marie’s report was due to imagination. He opened the library door
cautiously, shading the candle he carried with his hand, after thrusting the
slippers into the pocket of his tweed coat. The room was in complete darkness,
as the shutters were closed, and there was no sign that anyone was about.
However, as Alan assured himself once more, Sorley, if on the spot, would
certainly come to the library, so the young man extinguished his candle, and
concealed himself behind an Indian screen near the middle French window. Here he
lay down on the carpet and waited patiently. An hour passed and then another,
and the night wore on to dawn. Still the room was quiet and Alan at length began
to feel drowsy, for his long vigil was telling on his tired body. Through the
shutters he saw a thread of cold light, which showed that day was breaking, and
heard the early outburst of song with which the birds greeted the dawn. He
shifted himself into a more comfortable position, and closed his eyes, when
suddenly he opened them again widely, and every sense intensified its power.
There was certainly a noise—that of shuffling footsteps, hesitating, dragging,
doubtful, as though the individual was in deadly terror of discovery. Then after
a pause came the cautious opening of the library door, and Alan peering round
the corner of the screen, saw a gleam of light. It came from a candle held in a
man’s hand, and the glimmer shone faintly on the haggard face. The newcomer was
Randolph Vernon Sorley, and he looked like a ghost of his former self, bowed-
down, white-faced, and lean. Closing the door he went to the cupboard where the
golden bird had been found by him, and opened the same. In a moment or so Alan
heard the sound of eating, and saw that Sorley was eagerly devouring food.
Apparently in his prosperous days he had established a larder in the cupboard
against the time when he might be hunted down. The sight gave Alan the idea that
the man might be guilty after all, since otherwise he would not have prepared
for such a contingency. However, there was small time to consider this reason
and that, for Sorley having eaten, might slip away to his hiding-place, and then
in the rambling old mansion it would be impossible to discover him. When the man
left the cupboard and came to the table, he placed his candle thereon, took a
long drink from a flask—it probably contained whisky and water—and then shuffled
to the panel marked with a cross. Slipping this aside he held the candle so that
he might admire his jewels. Alan thought it was now time to make his presence
known in the least startling way possible. “Mr. Sorley!” he said softly, and
rising with caution. “Oh God!” gasped the man, dropping the light, and
suppressing a scream. In the darkness Alan groped his way forward. “Don’t be
afraid. It is Alan Fuller. I am your friend. “Alan,” the young man heard the
click of the door, and knew that the fugitive was making for his hiding-place.
But he halted when hearing the voice and the name. “Alan,” said Sorley in the
darkness, and his quavering voice hinted at relief. “Oh thank heaven you have
come! How did you guess——”

“Marie and granny heard certain noises,” said Alan quickly. “Yes,” muttered
Sorley, lighting another candle which he apparently took out of his pocket,
since the fallen one was lying near the panel. “I was not so careful as I should
have been. But it could not go on for ever, so I am glad you have come, Alan. I
want help,” his voice trembled piteously, “yes I want help to escape.”

In this turn the young man lighted the candle he had kept beside him, and in the
radiance of the two tapers surveyed the broken-down creature before him, who
looked quite his age, if not more. His face and hands were black with dust and
dirt, his clothes were stained and torn, while his beard had grown considerably,
and despair lurked in his sunken eyes. In place of the alert, soldierly man of
yore, Alan beheld a trembling, shivering, cringing thing, wincing at every
sound, shrinking from every shadow. Guilty or not, Sorley was surely paying in
full for his sins, since the agony and terror of his soul was made manifest in
his body. “And I am innocent,” he muttered again and again. “If you are innocent
why do you wish me to help you to escape?” asked Mr. Fuller gravely. “Because I
can’t prove my innocence,” said Sorley with sudden energy. “I am in a net woven
by that infernal woman.”

“Your wife?”

“Oh, so she told you that, did she? Yes, I admit she is my wife, and a bitter
one she has been to me. But this is not the time or place to talk of these
things. I could defend myself on that score if necessary, but there is no need.
Place me in safety, Alan, and I can explain everything. You do not believe that
I, am guilty; surely you don’t?” and he looked piteously at the young man,
shaking like a leaf. “No, I can’t say that I am absolutely convinced of your
guilt,” admitted Alan cautiously, “but when you gave yourself up why did you run
away again?”

“I can explain that,” replied Sorley with a cunning look, “only give me time,
and all will be explained. I got away in the fog and came down here on my motor
bicycle which I had kept ready in town. Now I am hiding here in a secret place
below the earth—down in the cellars. There are ranges and ranges of cellars
here, you know, Alan. I come up here at night to get food which long ago I
placed in that cupboard”—he pointed to the recess with a trembling
hand—“biscuits and potted meat, whisky and claret.”

“That storage looks as though you expected to be accused,” said Alan dryly.
Sorley nodded. “I was never sure of Louisa,” he muttered shuffling with his
feet. “I knew she would get me into trouble some day, and she has done so. She
is here now. Yes, I know that, for I saw her from a peephole yesterday evening
wandering round the house. I daresay she entered it, for she knows all its
secrets as well as I do. And if she finds me”—he gripped Alan’s coat—“she will
give me up. I must get away; help me to fly beyond the seas until such time as I
can prove my innocence. I won’t take the peacock with me,” he went on eagerly,
“you can have that, and you can find the treasure. I shall only take my own
jewels,” and he glanced at the panel which was still open. “The treasure has
been found, Mr. Sorley.”

“What—what—what!” the man would have fallen had not Fuller held him up. “Marie
and I solved the riddle!” and to quieten the babbling creature Alan hurriedly
related everything in as few words as possible. “The peacock and the jewels are
now at Yarbury’s Bank, so things are all right in that respect, and Marie is now
wealthy.”

“She has the jewels,” muttered the old man jealously. “Oh, the beautiful jewels.
They are beautiful, are they not, Alan?”

“Don’t trouble about what is not yours,” said Fuller sharply, “what we have to
do is to come to an understanding. Miss Grison is here, staying with Mrs.
Millington, while Morad-Bakche is at The Red Fox, and I shrewdly suspect that
Inspector Moon will come down this very day, since he guesses that you are here,
because Marie let drop a word or so about the noises she heard.”

Sorley staggered to the door. “I am surrounded by my enemies,” he gasped, “but I
sha’n’t give in. I shall go back to the cellars and hide myself.”

Alan ran forward and grasped his arm. “No,” he said strongly, “you must act like
a man, Mr. Sorley, and give yourself up. If you are innocent you need fear
nothing, and I shall stand by you throughout the trial.”

“The trial! the trial!” wailed Sorley; “no, no, I cannot, I dare not. Louisa is
too strong for me, indeed she is. Unless he knows the truth. “He. To whom do you
refer?”

“He—I mean—I mean—ah, you asked me why I ran away again after giving myself up.
Stop here and you shall see, you shall see with your own eyes, Alan, I swear you
shall see,” and wrenching himself free, Sorley flung open the door and passed
hastily out of the room. Alan had half a mind to follow, since once hidden
again, it would be difficult to discover the old creature. But then Sorley
believed that he would help him, so Fuller was satisfied that he would return,
although he could not conjecture the reason why he had gone away. It seemed
impossible for him to produce any proof to show why he had fled in the fog.
Fuller determined to wait, and meanwhile opened the shutters. The cold searching
light of the morning penetrated the large room in a chill manner, and Alan
shivered in the keen air when he opened the middle French window. But he did not
shiver when the sound of Sorley’s returning footsteps was heard and when the
door re-opened to show the old man dragging a miserable object forward by the
arm. “Jotty!” cried Alan with a bewildered stare. “Yes, Jotty,” echoed Sorley;
“and now you know why I bolted.”

CHAPTER XX WHO IS GUILTY? The urchin presented a more dilapidated appearance
than he had ever done before even when in his native slums as a street-arab. The
neat serge suit with which Miss Grison’s kindness had supplied him was smeared
with green slime and covered with cobwebs, besides being torn in many places.
But Alan did not look so much at the lad’s clothes as at his face and figure,
for he was terribly emaciated, and so weak, apparently with hunger, that he
could scarcely keep his legs. When he saw Fuller he burst into tears, and Sorley
allowed him to drop on to the carpet. “How does the lad come here?” demanded
Fuller indignantly, “and what have you been doing to him that he should be in
this terrible state?”

“He knows the truth,” snarled Sorley, who looked quite wolfish at the moment,
and cast a vindictive look at his victim, “and I have been trying to starve it
out of him.”

“But y’ haven’t,” murmured Jotty feebly, game to the last, “gimme sumthin’ t’
eat an’ drink, mister, or I’m a goner,” and his head dropped as though he would
die then and there. But Sorley only laughed at his sufferings. “I was certain
that the boy knew the truth,” he declared savagely; “and when he came to warn me
I lured him to the cellars and locked him up.”

“Without food?” questioned Alan with horror, and knelt by the boy to put one of
the biscuits Sorley had left on the table between his lips. “No, I fed him
occasionally,” said the man sullenly, “but kept him short so that starvation
might make him speak.”

“But it didn’t,” murmured Jotty again, trying to eat the biscuit. “Little
devil!” cried Sorley in a transport of rage. “I’ll make you admit that you are
in league with that woman to ruin me before I’ve done. It was because you were
locked in the cellar and no one but I knew where you were, that I bolted from
Moon in London. If I had been locked up you would have died of starvation, and,
bad as you are, I didn’t want that. And now you know,” he said defiantly to
Alan, “why I changed my mind after giving myself up. It only occurred to me that
Jotty might starve when I was in the cab driving to Bow Street with Moon. I
therefore determined to get away in the fog, and I did.”

“You should have told Moon where the boy was to be found,” said Fuller in sharp
tones. “Hand me that flask of whisky; the boy is nearly dead.”

“Oh I hope not, I hope not,” said Sorley in alarm, and anxiously watching the
young man moistening Jotty’s lips with the powerful spirit. “I didn’t mean that
he should die, for then he would take his secret with him, and I might be hanged
through Louisa’s lies. As to telling Moon about the cellars, I wasn’t such a
fool,” he went on in an injured tone. “I wasn’t going to reveal my hiding-place,
which I knew would come in useful, if I were driven to extremities. But I’m poor
old man, and everyone is against me,” he ended sobbing bitterly. Fuller was too
disgusted with the man’s behavior to say a word, but busied himself in feeding
Jotty cautiously with biscuits soaked in whisky. The boy soon began to pick up,
and eagerly demanded more food, which Alan refused to give him lest he should
suffer from overeating, after being so long without nourishment. Besides he
thought that the whisky might make him drunk, which was not to be thought of,
since the boy had to give his evidence and tell his secret, whatever that might
be. So while Sorley wept and maundered on about himself in an agony of self-
pity, Alan lifted Jotty and placed him in a deep armchair. By this time the
color had returned to the lad’s face, and he was much stronger for the moment,
at all events, so Fuller thought that it would be just as well to question him.
“Why did you warn Mr. Sorley after betraying him to me?” he asked. “‘Wanted
quids,” admitted Jotty frankly, and with a malevolent glance at Sorley; “‘knew
he’d pay t’ git awaiy fro’ th’ coppers. ‘Said es he would, an’ tole me, es his
cash was in his bloomin’ cellars. I was fool enuff t’ g’ daown, I was, an’ he
shoved me int’ one of ’em an’ keeps me wiffout grub till I fair screeched wiff
’unger. But I’ll ’ave th’lawr of him, I will,” said Jotty vindictively and very
humanly. “Why didn’t you escape?”

“‘Couldn’t, nohow. Thet cove lock’d th’ beastly door, he did.”

“Couldn’t you cry out?”

“I cried and hollered till I was fair sick, but it warn’t no’ good, nohow, es I
soon sawr, mister. He guv me grub et toimes t’ keep me fro’ becomin’ a deader,”
acknowledged the lad grudgingly, “but he ses as he’d not feed me up till I tole.
But I didn’t, you bet I didn’t.”

“Tell what?”

“The truth about the murder,” sobbed Sorley; “he knows it, the reptile.”

“I dunno no nuffin;” murmured Jotty sulkily; “give me another bisket, mister,
’cept y’ want t’ play the saime game.”

Fuller gave him what he wanted, and a little more whisky and water to bring back
his strength. Then he turned his attention to Sorley, and wondered what was best
to be done. “You will have to surrender yourself and stand your trial, you
know,” said Alan firmly, “things can’t go on in this silly way, Mr. Sorley.”

The old man pitched forward, sobbing at Alan’s feet, while Jotty, who was now
top-dog, grinned delightedly at his enemy’s downfall. Fuller stooped to pick up
the wretched creature, and to repeat his determination when he heard Dick
rushing down the stairs shouting his name. “Alan! Alan Where are you?”

“In the library. Come in. What’s up?”

Latimer burst into the room with dishevelled hair and untidy clothes, just as he
had leaped out of bed, and evidently was greatly excited. He was on the eve of
imparting the cause of his hurried coming, when he stopped short on beholding
Sorley and the missing lad. “Well I’m hanged!” said Dick, and gasped with
amazement. “I shall be, I shall be,” groaned Sorley still grovelling on the
floor, “if Louisa has her way. And you hate me, Latimer, you know you do. You
will give me up after all my trouble in coming back to hide here.”

“Oh so you did hide here,” said Latimer slowly, “and Jotty?”

“He lock’ me up, cuss him!” whimpered the boy, “’cos I wouldn’t tell him things
es I ain’t agoin’ to tell, nohow.”

“What re——” began Dick wonderingly, when Alan cut him short. “You’ll hear later,
old man. Meanwhile what’s up, that you rush in like a whirlwind?”

“I missed you when I woke up, and wondered where you were. I looked out of the
window of my bedroom and saw a woman coming up the avenue with a man. As they
came nearer I saw that it was Miss Grison and Moon.”

“I’m lost, I’m lost,” shouted Sorley scrambling to his feet; “let me hide, oh
let me hide,” and he rushed to the door. “Ain’t no go, mister,” yelled the
malignant Jotty, nibbling at his biscuit, “fur I knows yer hole an’ I’ll sell y’
fur a sneak.”

But in spite of this assertion, Sorley, in a fever of terror would have fled,
but that Alan caught him by the arm. “Stay here and face things like a man,” he
said sternly. “Dick run out and ask Moon and Miss Grison to come here. Then dash
down to The Red Fox and bring Bakche to prove the poor devil’s innocence.”

“What—what—what,” gurgled Sorley, as Dick lost no time in obeying, and sprang
out of the French window which Alan had opened. “Can he——”

“I think so; I am not sure,” said Fuller sharply. “However you shall stay here
and face the best or the worst.”

“Louisa will hang me,” murmured Sorley, sinking into a chair and covering his
face with two grimy hands. Jotty grinned, and did not seem disturbed at the
announcement that Bakche would prove his captor’s innocence, which made Alan
think that the brat could not be so guilty as the Indian had hinted. Feeling
weary with his long watching and the late exciting events, the young man went to
the window to inhale deep breaths of the keen morning air. The sun was now
rising, and the eastern sky was radiant with golden floods of light, while the
chill atmosphere felt perceptibly warmer. Trees and lawns and beds of early
flowers presented themselves with photographic distinctness in the crystalline
clearness of the dawning, and there was a feeling of freshness, as if all old
things were being made new by the magical workings of nature. But Fuller had
small time to gratify his jaded senses with this cool beauty, for crossing the
lawn were Inspector Moon and Miss Grison. Dick had just delivered his message
and had left them to dash down the avenue to Belstone, while the woman and the
officer advanced towards the open window, as they had been directed. Alan
stepped down to meet them, quite satisfied that the vindictive Jotty would keep
a close watch on the miserable old man. The tables were now turned with a
vengeance. “How are you, Miss Grison? and you, Mr. Inspector?” said Alan
quietly. “I heard that the lady was here, but you sir?——”

“I brought him,” said Miss Grison triumphantly, and looking wooden and washed
out and as hard as ever. “I wired for him last night, for I was certain that
Sorley would come back to The Monastery.”

Moon nodded, and looked curiously at Alan’s drawn face, and disordered clothes,
and especially at his feet which were without slippers. “I came down late last
night to Lewes,” he explained, “and drove over early this morning. That is why I
am here at so unexpected an hour. And even if Miss Grison had not wired me, I
should have come, although perhaps later. Miss Inderwick’s remark about noises
in her house——”

“Yes! yes!” interrupted Fuller with a shiver, for the dewy grass chilled his
feet. “I guessed that you would come after that unconscious hint.”

“Well of course Miss Inderwick naturally; wants to save her uncle——”

Miss Grison interrupted the inspector in her turn. “She won’t though, try as she
will. I know all the hiding-places in The Monastery, and wherever Sorley may
conceal himself I can hunt him out.”

“He doesn’t wish to conceal himself,” said Fuller coldly, for the look of
malicious triumph on her sallow face was terrible. “He is in the library and
wishes to give himself up.”

“He did so before,” remarked Moon dryly, “and then ran away.”

“Because he had Jotty locked up in a cellar here, and feared lest the boy should
starve to death. Come in, Mr. Inspector. This is surely the beginning of the
end.”

“The end, the end,” cried Miss Grison joyfully, and absolutely chanted the words
as if they were the funeral hymn of a victim, “the end of the beast and all his
wickedness. I hope they’ll let me see him hanged. And he’ll have no coffin, but
be buried in lime and——”

“Hold your tongue,” said Moon roughly, for even his tried nerves gave way with a
quiver when the vindictive woman expressed her unholy joy. “Come on, Mr. Fuller.
I’m glad you didn’t help this man to escape.”

“I never intended to,” Alan assured the officer as they stepped into the room
through the open window, followed by Miss Grison, who slunk behind like halting
Nemesis, silent and sinister. “I forced him to stay and surrender.”

“He sha’n’t escape this time,” growled Moon, looking at Sorley who stared
rigidly from the chair he was seated in, not at the officer of the law, but at
the cruel face of the wife who had hunted him down. He seemed like a rabbit
fascinated by a serpent, and could utter no sound. Even when Moon again recited
the formula of arrest he did not speak. But Miss Grison did. “Ha!” she jeered,
pointing a finger of scorn at the motionless man, “now do you receive the wages
of iniquity, you beast!”

“Be silent,” said Alan tartly, while the inspector turned to address a few words
to Jotty, who looked at him impudently. “I shall not be silent,” raged the
woman; “you know what I am, and who I am in every way, Louisa Sorley—that is my
name.” Moon overhearing, turned with a blank look of astonishment. “Yes, you may
look and look and look!” she taunted, snapping her fingers. “Louisa Sorley, and
that fiend’s lawful wife. Ah!”—she turned furiously on her husband—“you cast me
off, you made me hold my tongue by threatening to imprison Baldwin so that you
could marry the wealthy slut you set your mind on. I could do nothing, because I
had to save my brother; all I could do I did, and that was to steal the peacock.
And now the secret has been guessed and the jewels belong to your minx of a
niece——”

“Stop that,” cried Fuller in a fierce way; “not a word against my promised wife,
Miss Grison.”

“Mrs. Sorley, if you please,” retorted the woman making an ironical curtsey,
“and the girl is my niece by marriage as well as your promised wife. But she has
the jewels, and much as I hate her I am glad, since this sneaking reptile will
not get them into his clutches. I have waited for this hour; for years have I
waited; lying in bed, walking during the day, working or playing I have plotted
and planned and thought and striven to bring you down to the dust. You scorned
me, who loved you, you tortured Baldwin who was your friend, and you drove us
both in disgrace from this house. Now it is your turn—yours! yours! yours!” She
pointed her finger again and laughed with savage delight. “You shall be driven
from the house; you shall go to jail; you shall be hanged by the neck until you
are dead, and may God _not_ have mercy on your soul.”

Moon caught her by the arm, and shook her sternly. “You mustn’t talk like that,
you know,” he said in a peremptory manner. Miss Grison—as it is more convenient
to call her—wrenched herself free, and her little lean figure quivered with
unrestrained rage. She wore the long black velvet cloak, the early Victorian
bonnet, and the drab thread gloves in which Alan had seen her when she had been
surprised by himself and Marie in the library. But she was no longer demure, no
longer did she compress her thin lips and stare in an unwinking unmeaning way.
Her terrible triumph had stirred up the depths of her nature, and she acted like
a woman bereft of reason, as indeed she was for the moment. “Damn you, let me
be!” she screeched, getting free at the expense of a torn cloak. “I can speak to
my husband, I suppose. Ha! ha! A nice thing it is for me to have a murderer for
a husband.”

“I am not a murderer,” wailed Sorley tremulously. “I left Baldwin alive and
well. She—she—she——”

“She—she—she,” mocked his wife, “you, with your she—she—she. You are a murderer;
you had the peacock; you have the knife which killed My darling brother. Deny it
if you dare.”

“I do deny it,” stammered Sorley with an attempt to assert his dignity. “I had
the peacock, because you brought it here secretly.”

“You lie, as you have always done. I did not. Perhaps you will say that I
brought the knife—the dagger—the thing with which Baldwin was stabbed also, you
animal!”

“No—no—no. I have never seen the knife. But I believe you would have brought it
if you could, so as to make me out to be guilty.”

“You liar!” raged the woman, while both Moon and Alan stood aside silent,
wondering what would be brought forth next. “I came here on that day when I
warned you, and walked all over the place while you were snoring, like the hog
you are. Here!” she brushed Moon aside with a force surprising in so small a
woman, and marched to the open panel. “I looked in here, where I always knew you
kept your bits of glass, and I intended to take some, so as to make you suffer,
just as I did with the peacock; just as I did with the peacock, you wretch! But
I found hidden there the dagger which was used to murder my dearest brother, so
I left things alone knowing you were the beast who murdered him, and knowing
that I at last had you in my power to hunt down.” She thrust her arm into the
recess and tore out tray after tray of jewels which scattered themselves about
the floor, and finally pulled out the stiletto which Marie had found and Alan
had seen. “There! oh there you are! Do you see this, policeman? blood on the
handle? Yes, take it, and bring it up in the evidence against him.”

Moon handled the stiletto with a frown. “This looks bad,” he said to the
terrified Sorley; “is it yours?”

“It was—it was,” stammered the old man, shaking with nervous fear, “but if I
were truly guilty I would not dare to say so. I bought it in Venice—in
Italy—where I—I——” he broke off with a cry rising to face his wife with what
courage he was able to summon to his heart. “And you stole it over twenty years
ago, along with the peacock; you stole many things—you know you did, Louisa. I
believe—yes—I believe——”

“That I put it there,” interrupted Miss Grison with a shrill laugh. “Oh I
daresay. To save your own bacon you can say no more and no less. Liar and
murderer and wife beater that you are! You struck me once, you did, you did, and
now I have come back to repay the blow with interest. Man!” she faced round
fiercely to Moon, “why don’t you put the handcuffs on him? Make him a shame and
disgrace in the village where he has lorded it for so many guilty years. I
could——” she dashed forward with a raised arm, her face working with furious
passion. Fuller caught her back. “Steady! steady!”

“Beast!” she turned and struck him full in the face, whereupon Moon came to the
young man’s assistance, and the two forced her back into a chair. For a few
minutes she struggled, screaming, spitting, kicking and fighting with all the
abnormal strength which her fury against her husband gave her. All at once she
collapsed, and became as weak as an infant, to burst into tears, and huddle up,
a nerveless heap, in the deep chair. “She’s finished now,” said Moon, wiping his
red face; “all the fight’s gone out of her. Whew! I’ve seen women in the cells
like her before. She’s a crazy bit of goods.”

“She’s mad, quite mad,” quavered Sorley, wringing his hands in a senile manner,
“I always said that she was.”

“Then you sent her mad,” muttered Alan, who did not think Marie’s uncle was
wholly the injured person he presented himself to be. All the time Jotty
surreptitiously devoured all the biscuits within reach, and enjoyed what was to
him quite a performance—and a well-known one at that, as often he had seen
Mother Slaig and others of her kind raging in just such an animal manner. “She’s
a oner, ain’t she?” he said grinning, “but not a bad ole gal, oh no, not at
all.”

Miss Grison, who was lying back apparently exhausted, unclosed one eye and then
two, shooting such a malevolent glance at the boy that he held his tongue and
looked away uneasily. Moon was about to take up again the stiletto which he had
cast carelessly on the table in order to ask questions, when Latimer, hot with
rapid walking, made his appearance through the window followed by Morad-Bakche,
who looked uncomfortable. The inspector nodded to both, but did not speak for
the moment, as his attention was taken up with Alan’s attempt to pacify granny
and the two servants who had been attracted to the library by Miss Grison’s
screams. The three wished to stay, and argued the point, but Fuller managed to
finally turn them out and then came back to witness what would doubtless prove
to be the final act of the drama. Meanwhile neither Bakche nor Latimer said a
word, and Miss Grison still lay back in her chair broken up much in the same way
as was her husband. They were both wrecks, the sole feelings predominating being
terror in the man’s heart and hatred in the woman’s. “Well, sir,” said Inspector
Moon, turning sharply on the dignified Indian, “and what do you know about this
matter?”

“I have some idea of the truth,” answered Bakche quietly, and now more at ease,
“and I am willing to state what I know on the condition which I arranged with
Mr. Fuller yesterday. Indeed, Mr. Fuller, so to speak, suggested the condition
some time ago, and I came down here to see Miss Inderwick as to whether she
would be willing to fulfil it.”

“If you know the truth, you must tell the truth without any condition. That is
the law of this country. If you impede the course of justice by keeping back
necessary information you are liable to a penalty.”

“I am willing to take the risk,” responded the Indian dryly, “since I have so
much at stake. I appeal to Mr. Fuller as to whether he is willing to agree to my
condition?”

“On behalf of Miss Inderwick I am,” said Alan quietly, “since she leaves me free
to use her jewels in any way likely to free her uncle from this charge of murder
brought against him by Miss Grison.”

“Mrs. Sorley, if you please,” murmured the woman without unclosing her eyes.
Bakche took no notice. “I want half the jewels,” he stated coolly. “You shall
have a third,” answered Alan. “Then I don’t speak.”

“What’s that?” cried Moon. “Let me tell you, that if you don’t, I shall arrest
you as being concerned in this crime.”

“You have no warrant!” said the man uneasily. “I shall arrest you without a
warrant, and make good my reason afterwards.”

The Indian looked uncomfortably from one to the other, and finally seeing that
the Inspector was in earnest, he yielded to circumstances too strong for him.
“You agree to give me a third of my family jewels?” he asked turning to Alan
nervously. “Yes; I shall put it in writing if you like.”

“No; I am willing to take the word of an English gentleman. That lad,” the man
looked at Jotty, “also knows something of the truth; at least I think that he
does.”

“Don’t know nuffin,” muttered the boy truculently, for the drink was telling on
his weak condition. “If I did, I wouldn’t tell when that cove,” he pointed to
Sorley, “lock’d me up.”

“Tell,” said the inspector sharply, “or I’ll box your ears.”

“Sha’n’t, sha’n’t, sha’n’t,” babbled Jotty, “wot I knows is wuth quids, an’
quids I’ll ’ave or say nuffin.”

Sorley scrambled on the floor and swept together some of the gems. “Take these;
take these and save my life,” he implored, thrusting them into the boy’s hands.
“You wouldn’t tell by force but these are worth money, so——”

Jotty played with the gems and put them into his pocket. “If they’re wuth
quids,” he said thickly, “I’ll split.”

“Do you know the truth?” asked Latimer quickly, “I always thought you did.”

“Perhaps you saw the murder committed,” Alan remarked, and they all stared hard
at the boy. “No I didn’t,” snapped Jotty, “but I sees sumthin’, and I think es I
kin spot who did it.”

“Who did it then?” demanded Moon impatiently. “Sha’n’t speak till thet cove
does,” muttered Jotty, pointing his chin at Bakche with an obstinate look;
“don’t b’leve he knows tho’.”

“Don’t I?” cried Bakche drawing himself up to his stately height, “I was at
Rotherhithe when the man was murdered by his sister.”

“Miss Grison!” cried Alan confounded. “Good Lord! Miss Grison killed him?”

“Yes,” said Bakche, “Miss Grison killed him.”

CHAPTER XXI THE TRUTH

The accusation of the Indian, which seemed to be emphasized by Jotty’s silence,
brought Miss Grison, still weak and broken, to her feet. “It’s a lie! a lie! a
lie!” she stammered, holding on to the chair for support. “It’s the truth,”
insisted Bakche deliberately. “But it’s impossible,” murmured Fuller, who was
quite bewildered, “she loved her brother dearly.”

“I did, I did. Bless you for saying that, Mr. Fuller,” cried Miss Grison in a
tremulous tearful way. “Why should I murder my darling Baldwin?”

“To get me into trouble,” quavered Sorley, who had got back into his chair and
was nervously plucking at his chin. “I wouldn’t have sacrificed him to you,”
retorted Miss Grison, dropping back again into her seat and taking out her
handkerchief. “Perhaps if I tell my story,” said Bakche appealing to the
inspector, “you may be convinced of the truth.”

“Go on,” said Moon curtly, and took out his pocket-book. “She killed him——”

“I never did, I never did,” wept Miss Grison, “you did it yourself.”

“I did it! How dare you say that!”

“Because it is true. You admit having been at Rotherhithe on the night and about
the time poor Baldwin was murdered. You wanted the peacock, you know you did,
and told me so. When I said Baldwin had it——”

“I went to try and get it from him,” finished Bakche, “that is quite correct,
madam. I did, and I tried hard to get him to part with it. But he refused and
you urged him not to give it to me, even for money. When you visited your
brother——”

“I never visited him,” snapped Miss Grison, whose strength was coming back, and
whose eyes were again beginning to flash ominously. “You did,” retorted the
Indian, “you went frequently, I disguised myself as a lascar and followed you. I
overheard your conversations with him many a time, madam.”

“Ah!” she flashed out, “you were eavesdropping.”

“Yes,” admitted the man candidly. “I had too much at stake not to take all the
means in my power to safeguard my interests. And a few days before the murder
you urged your brother to write to Mr. Sorley and make an appointment for the
thirteenth of November.”

“Ah!” murmured Moon, making a note, “the night of the death.”

“Yes! yes! yes!” cried Sorley, his voice growing stronger; “I got that letter,
and wrote an answer saying that I would come.”

“Jotty found the answer,” put in Alan quickly, “and sold it to me for two
pounds. Mr. Latimer passed it on to you, Mr. Inspector.”

Moon nodded. “I have it at my office. Go on, sir.”

“Miss Grison—as I overheard—urged her brother to make this appointment with Mr.
Sorley, and then tell him that the peacock was to be given to me.”

“Ah!” cried the woman sarcastically, “and yet you say that I urged my brother
not to give it you. You contradict yourself.”

“I am not responsible for your frequent changes of mind,” said Bakche in chilly
tones, “sometimes you told your brother to make terms with me so that Mr.
Sorley—whom you seemed to hate—might be disappointed, and then you tried to
prevent him even seeing me, let alone handing over the peacock. But you got him
to make the appointment for the night of the murder with Mr. Sorley, that I’ll
swear to. There was another thing that I overheard. Your brother confessed with
tears and terror that he had murdered that gentleman to rob him outside Chin
Chow’s opium den.”

“What if he did?” said Miss Grison boldly. “You blamed him for the shame he was
bringing on your name.”

“I did, but that does not say that I should have denounced him.”

“There was no need for you to do so,” said Moon coldly; “sooner or later the
truth would have become known. Grison was already suspected.”

“So he told his sister,” said Bakche quickly, “and for that reason she
reproached him.”

“Why not say that I murdered him?” sneered the woman quivering. “You did, but
not on the night you advised him to make the appointment with this gentleman.”
He pointed to Sorley huddled up in his chair. “When then, if you please, liar
that you are?”

“I am no liar, and you know it, madam. It was on the night that the appointment
was kept that you killed your brother. I determined to come on that night, so as
to overhear the interview between Mr. Sorley and your brother, and I did. Mr.
Sorley wanted the peacock and Grison refused to surrender it. Then Mr. Sorley
left.”

“And Grison was alive? Grison was alive?” cried the man in question. “Yes,” said
Bakche, answering the question and a look of Moon’s. “Grison was alive. Mr.
Sorley is perfectly innocent.”

“Thank God! oh thank God!” wept Sorley hysterically, and sliding from his chair
he knelt down covering his face with his grimy hands. Alan nodded to Dick in a
somewhat triumphant way, as he had never been sure of Sorley’s guilt, and Dick
nodded penitently in return, admitting silently his error. “Was Miss Grison at
Rotherhithe on that night?” asked Moon rather unnecessarily, seeing that Bakche
accused her of committing the crime. “Yes. I was on the watch, and I saw her
coming.”

“Did Mother Slaig see her?”

“Not on that night, I fancy. Miss Grison always slipped into the house and out
of it like a shadow,” said Bakche, after a moment’s reflection. “Sometimes Mrs.
Slaig saw her and sometimes she did not. The house was always filled with people
coming and going, and in that shabby dress”—Bakche referred somewhat
superciliously to Miss Grison’s worn attire—“no one noticed her.”

“Everyone knew that I came to comfort my brother,” said the woman sharply. “I am
not denying that. But on that night you hovered round the place and saw Sorley
come and go. He came at seven and went away by eight. Grison afterwards came
down and got a drink, after which he retired to bed at ten o’clock as was stated
at the inquest. He did not see you when he was down stairs, as you did not speak
to him. But you followed him up and were with him in his room. No one but I saw
you, as no one paid any attention to your brother, save I who was on the watch.
After ten—I can’t state the exact time—you came out of the room and slipped away
unnoticed. I followed you to the end of the slum, madam, and then returned to
see if you had been urging Grison not to give me the peacock. I looked in and he
was on his bed quite dead.”

“Why didn’t you give the alarm?” asked Alan impatiently. “Ask yourself why I did
not, Mr. Fuller,” said Bakche pitying this denseness. “Here was I, who wanted a
valuable object possessed by Grison, disguised as a lascar. Had I given the
alarm I should have been arrested for the crime and would have had a great
difficulty in clearing myself.”

“Yes,” said Moon, “that is perfectly true. Well?”

“Well,” echoed Bakche, “what more do you wish me to say, sir. Grison was alive
when this lady entered his room, and when she came out he was dead. I knew also
that she carried away the peacock.”

“How do you know?” asked Latimer, while Miss Grison sniffed disdainfully. “Jotty
told me.”

“Yuss,” said the boy, brisking up, for he had nodded in a sleepy way during the
recital, “he guv me a quid fur tellin’ him; he wantin’ thet there blessed
peacock, somehow.”

“But how did you know Miss Grison had it Jotty?” questioned Alan. “Sawr it afore
him es was good t’ me was buried. I wen up t’ ’er house in Bloomsbury es I’d
orfen gone afore, fur him es was good t’ me, and I ses as ’er brother was a
deader. Sh’ sawr me in ’er room an’ I sawr ’er smuggle awaiy thet peacock and
thet thing,” and Jotty pointed to the stiletto, which was lying on the table
where Moon had thrown it. “You liar! oh, you little liar!” shrieked Miss Grison,
shaking her fist. “It’s trewth, fur sure,” insisted Jotty, “an’ cos I knowed too
much, y’ tuck me int’ yer bloomin’ ouse an’ guv me thet button suit. I didn’t
say nuffin, I didn’t, es y’ wasn’t a bad ole gal, an I oped t’ maike quids out
of y’. An’ when y’ come daown ’ere, t’ the fun’rel of him es was good t’ me, y’
tuck awaiy thet peacock an’ thet stabbin’ thing. Oh, I kep’ m’ eye peeled, y’
bet, fur I wanted thet peacock m’self, wuth plenty of quids it is anyhow. Sawr’s
y’ packin’ them in a bag when y’ thought es I wasn’t lookin’. But I ain’t no
fool, nohow, tho’ y’ did git me t’ help t’ git thet Sorley cove int’ trouble.”

“How was that, Jotty,” asked the inspector while Miss Grison ripped her
handkerchief to shreds in silent anger. “Why sh’ fun’ out es I’d got that letter
fro’ him,” he pointed to Sorley “an’ she ses, as I’d better taike it t’ Mr.
Fuller there, who’d give me quids fur it anyhow. An’ I did, gettin’ two quids
fur it. An’ then I was ’opin’ t’ git more quids fro the Sorley cove, and comes
daown ’ere t’ saiy es the gaim was up, an’ show’d him th’ noospaiper. She,” he
indicated Miss Grison with his chin, “made me tell ’er as Mr. Sorley ’ad the
peacock, es I’d seen the doring of it on Mr. Fuller’s taible and missus she ses
as there wasn’t no dorin’ maid, an’ thet Mr. Fuller mus’ ’ave got it fro’ the
Sorley cove. ‘An’ ses she, ‘he’s cort naow, so I’ll tell the noospaipers es my
poor brother was killed for the bloomin’ peacock’s saik.’ An——”

“Lies! lies! all lies!” cried Miss Grison, who had been gradually working
herself up into a passion “you want to save that beast of a husband of mine, you
know you do, you know you do.”

“He is saved already,” said Moon sharply; “the evidence of Mr. Bakche, supported
as it is by Jotty, proves that Mr. Sorley is innocent, and that you are guilty.”

“And what is more,” put in Alan severely, “you evidently laid a trap for your
husband. That is proved by your telling Jotty to bring me the letter and thus
implicate him. And not until you knew that the peacock was in Mr. Sorley’s
possession—as you guessed from the drawing having been made, knowing that none
had been made before—did you make public the fact that your brother had been
murdered for the sake of the bird.”

“Yes, yes,” quavered Sorley, who was still kneeling and weeping, wholly broken
down by his providential escape; “it was a trap, I always said so. I knew that
she placed the peacock in that cupboard; I told you so, Alan. I never knew that
she hid the stiletto with my jewels, as I never came across it. But now that I
know, I am sure that she put it there to get me into still further trouble. And
I admitted that the stiletto was mine, didn’t I, Alan I didn’t I, Mr.
Inspector?”

“Yes, yes,” said Moon nodding, “the case is clear enough. Miss Grison I arrest
you on a charge of murdering your brother.”

The woman was silent and glared at him fiercely, but made no effort to evade him
as he advanced, clinking the handcuffs. “Wait a moment,” she said suddenly, “you
needn’t put those on yet. What motive had I to kill the brother I loved so
dearly?”

“That I can’t tell,” said Moon hesitating. “She is mad,” cried Sorley, “she was
always mad.”

“You drove me mad,” shouted Miss Grison turning on him furiously. “I loved you
and you scorned me because you wished to marry a rich woman. But that you could
have put Baldwin in jail for that forgery I should have told the truth about my
marriage; and much as I hated you I should have taken my true position here as
your wife. But you were too strong for me and too strong for Baldwin. He was
never wicked, but only weak, and you ruined him as you ruined me. I vowed to be
revenged.”

“And you have failed,” said Sorley brokenly, yet with a note of triumph.
“Failed. Yes, I know I have failed, and what is more I have fallen into the trap
I set for you. That makes me question the justice of the Eternal. He gave me
misery all my life, and you happiness. Yet here you get the better of your evil,
and I am condemned to the scaffold. Baldwin is better off. At least I saved him
from being hanged.”

“Oh,” said Moon, while Alan and Latimer started, “so you admit having murdered
your brother.”

“Yes,” said Miss Grison darkly, and throwing back her head. “I did evil that
good might come of it. Listen and before you take me away policeman, I am
willing to tell the truth.”

“What you say will be used in evidence against you, remember.”

“I don’t care. I have fought and lost.” She moved forward to the table and
facing the men adopted quite an oratorical attitude. Beginning her story calmly
enough she gradually worked herself up into a furious passion, as a sense of the
wrongs she had endured came home to her. And the fact that the man who had
inflicted those wrongs was now free, was not the least bitter drop in her cup of
sorrow. “Four men against one woman,” said Miss Grison scornfully, and drawing
up her small figure stiffly; “five, if that brat can be called a man, instead of
an ungrateful beast. How brave you all are, how very brave.”

Moon glanced at his watch. “Time presses,” he said coldly, “say what you have to
say, for I must take you up to London as soon as possible.”

“Oh, I shall say my say quick enough,” cried Miss Grison savagely, “is that the
way to speak to a lady, you low policeman. For I am a lady.” She flung back her
head haughtily. “I always was a lady, as Baldwin always was a gentleman, bless
him.”

“Yet you murdered him,” hinted Moon coldly. “And for why?” she demanded
clenching her hands, “because I wished to save him from himself and from the
gallows, and from further disgracing the honored name left by our father. I tell
you all that I loved Baldwin, but I knew his weakness I knew his faults, knew
that unless he had some one stronger than himself to cling to, he was always
dropping into the mud. Oh, the poor soul, who can blame him? Not I, though the
world may, and the world did. If Sorley had treated Baldwin properly, he might
have lived and died here in honor.”

“I did my best,” quavered her husband faintly, “but he drank and——”

“Oh, he had all the vices and you all the virtues,” interrupted Miss Grison
scornfully; “but you might have put up with his weaknesses for my sake. I was
your wife, and deserved some consideration. But you drove me away and you drove
Baldwin.”

“I gave you money to set up that boarding-house.”

“Yes; and I took it as my right, although I could have spat in your wicked face
for insulting me by the offer. I only held my peace when you were courting that
slut who died, because you could have put Baldwin into jail. He and I went away
to try and live out our ruined lives as best we could. Baldwin was too much
afraid to think of revenge, but I was not, and I swore that you should pay for
your wickedness. He told you that he had the peacock, which I had given him,
after I took it from here, as it was a toy to him. You came and came, but I
prevented Baldwin giving it to you, although he wanted to, for money that he
might go to the colonies.”

“That would have been a wise move,” murmured Alan nodding. “It would not,”
contradicted Miss Grison, “what do you know about it, Mr. Fuller? although I
have no quarrel with you, as you have always treated me like a gentleman. It
would not have been a good move, because Baldwin was so weak that unless he was
constantly looked after, he was always getting into dangerous trouble. He was a
fool; yes, I who loved him, and who sacrificed my life to him, say that he was a
weak fool. I did my best to keep him in the straight path, I allowed him a
weekly income, and comforted him, I did all that a sister and a woman could do.
But it was all of no use, as you may guess, you men who are bullying a poor weak
woman. When Baldwin confessed to me that he had murdered that man outside Chin
Chow’s opium den I knew that the end had come.”

“What end?” demanded Moon stolidly. “The end of my patience, the end of the
sinful years which Baldwin was permitted to live on this miserable earth,” cried
Miss Grison. “He told me that he was suspected, and implored me to save him. I
promised to do so, and I did in the only way that I could. I killed him, I
stabbed him to the heart, and that was an easy death compared to being hanged.”

So fierce and wild did she look as she said these words, that all present
shivered, and Sorley moaned, “A terrible woman, a terrible woman.”

“A merciful woman! a good woman! a bold woman!” cried his wife, overhearing. “A
weaker woman would not have acted as I did. But it was the only way, if I wished
to save him from being hanged and the honored name of our father, Dr. Theophilus
Grison, from being further smirched. I determined to kill Baldwin, and also to
use his death as a means to hang you.”

“You wicked woman!” cried Alan indignantly. “Wicked? Why wicked, since this
beast ruined both me and my brother? I was only dealing out justice to him, as I
dealt out mercy to Baldwin. And I made my plans cleverly. I knew that Mr. Bakche
was haunting Mother Slaig’s, and counted on him recognizing my brute of a
husband on that night, since he had already seen him here when he came to make
inquiries about the peacock. I made Baldwin write to Sorley to appoint the
thirteenth of November night as the time to come up. Baldwin showed me the
reply, and I knew that he would be there. I took the stiletto which belonged to
Sorley as I stole it along with the peacock when I left this house. Since it was
his I thought it would make the evidence against him more certain. I went to
Rotherhithe and watched. I saw Sorley go, and then I went up to Baldwin’s room
and stabbed him. It doesn’t matter how I cajoled him to lie down and rest, and
chose my time. I stabbed him to the heart and that is enough for you to know.”

Again her listeners shivered, for there seemed to be something terrible about
this small frail woman admitting such a dreadful deed so callously and boldly.
She smiled as she saw their feeling. “What a lot of cowards you men are,” she
jeered, “you wouldn’t have acted so bravely; no, not you.”

“Go on, go on,” said Moon impatiently, “there’s no time to be lost.”

“I have nearly finished,” said Miss Grison tartly, “don’t hurry me, as you must
admit that my confession is interesting. I killed Baldwin with this,” she added,
taking up the stiletto which lay on the table, “and I took it away, along with
the peacock, intending to hide both in this house. Jotty—ungrateful little
reptile that he is—saw me with these when he came to Thimble Square to tell me
of the murder. Ha! ha! of the murder which I had committed. I wept and wailed,
as I was bound to do, since my dear brother had been murdered by Sorley. Then
came the inquest, and I said nothing, for I waited my chance. The funeral took
place here, and I stayed at Mrs. Millington’s, she has been a good friend to me.
I came to this house on the day you know of, Mr. Fuller,” she went on,
addressing herself to Alan who nodded in answer, “and while you and Marie were
in the grounds, and this man—if he can be called a man—was asleep, I placed the
peacock in that black-oak cupboard and the stiletto in the place behind that
panel marked with a cross, where I knew Sorley kept those bits of glass——”

“They are jewels, valuable jewels,” cried her husband irrelevantly. “Oh, get on
with the confession,” said Latimer sharply, for the prolonged scene was getting
on his nerves, “you hid the stiletto and peacock.”

“Yes,” said Miss Grison snappishly, “and then I waited, guessing that Sorley
would probably seek Mr. Fuller’s help to solve the riddle of the bird. That was
why I introduced the subject of cryptograms on that day when we were at tea, Mr.
Fuller. When I learned that Jotty had Sorley’s reply to the request of Baldwin I
sent him to you so that it might implicate this beast of a husband of mine. Then
when Jotty told me about the drawing of the peacock, I knew that Sorley had
consulted you, since no drawing had ever been made of the thing. My trap was
set, and by making the matter of the peacock public, I closed it on the man I
hate.”

She shut her mouth with a snap, and idly dug the stiletto into the table as if
she had finished. “What else?” questioned Moon imperiously. “Nothing else,” said
Miss Grison raising her pale eyes; “you know all. The trap caught the bird, and
my revenge would have been complete had not this fool learned more than he
should have. You, I mean, you,” said Miss Grison walking slowly towards the
Indian, “why couldn’t you let me have my way?”

“I wanted the jewels,” said Bakche stolidly, and not moving even when she was
face to face with him. “You shall never have them,” cried Miss Grison
unexpectedly, and before anyone could move she raised her arm. In a moment the
stiletto was in the Indian’s heart, and he fell like a log on the floor. “Great
God!” roared the inspector and sprang forward. Miss Grison put out her frail
arms. “Go on, put the handcuffs here,” she mocked coolly. “I have settled the
beast who balked me of my revenge!”

“He is quite dead,” said Alan lifting a pale face from an examination. “And that
beast Sorley lives,” snarled Miss Grison viciously, and spat at her husband.
CHAPTER XXII CALM AFTER STORM

In the month of July the park of The Monastery was in full leafage, and
presented a glorious sea of shimmering tremulous green. The gardens glowed with
many-colored blossoms, and especially there was a profusion of roses, red and
white and yellow, for Marie Inderwick, loving flowers, had planted quantities
immediately after her return home from the Brighton school. The whole place was
radiant with color under a cloudless and deeply blue sky, and the hot sunshine
bathed everything in hues of gold. It was like the Garden of Eden, and neither
Adam nor Eve were wanting, since the lovers were walking therein, arm in arm,
talking of the past, congratulating themselves on the present, and looking
forward to a serene and glorious future. The storm was over, and now a halcyon
calm prevailed. “It’s like heaven,” sighed Miss Inderwick, whose face glowed
like one of the roses she wore at her breast, from sheer happiness, “and to
think that we shall be married to-morrow, Alan dearest.”

“Then it will be more like heaven than ever,” laughed the young man, who looked
the picture of content. “Let us go to St. Peter’s Dell, Marie darling; for it
was there that we found the jewels.”

“Rather the papers which led to the finding of the jewels,” corrected Miss
Inderwick gladly, “and it’s a nice place to make love in, Alan, for I have
planted it with roses.”

“The Gardens of Shiraz, where Omar Khayyam sang,” said the happy young lover,
and quoted the well known lines softly:—

“Here with a loaf of bread, beneath the bough,

A flask of wine: a book of verse—and Thou,

Beside me singing in the wilderness,

And wilderness is Paradise enow.”

“Oh, we don’t want the bread and wine,” laughed Marie indolently, as they took
their way to the dell along a path riotous with blossom. “Bread and cheese
then.”

“You have left out the best thing, dear.”

“Kisses, eh? Well then.” Alan stopped, took her into his strong arms and kissed
her twice, thrice, and again on her rose-leaf lips. “I wish you’d behave
yourself,” said Marie sedately, “as to bread and cheese we have something better
than that now.”

“_You_ have,” said Alan quickly, “the jewels have brought close on one hundred
thousand pounds, which all belong to you.”

“What is mine is yours, darling. You know that.”

“Yet nasty people will say that I married you for your money, Marie.”

She pouted. “What a compliment to me, as if I were an ugly girl.”

“Quite so, instead of being the most perfect woman ever created.”

“Oh,” Marie sighed from sheer pleasure, “say that again.”

Alan did so with a laugh. “Marie, will you ever have enough flattery.”

“It’s not flattery, it’s the truth, and I like you always to tell me the truth,”
said Marie as they entered the dell. “Come and sit down on the edge of the pool,
Alan, and have a talk.”

“Why not call it the well?” he asked, while they balanced themselves on the
circle of stones, and he placed his arm round her waist to support her. “Simon
Ferrier called it the pool, and I think it’s a very good name.”

“Darling, he only did so because he was unable to find the name of a gem which
began with ‘W’.”

“I’m very glad he did,” said Marie quickly, “and that he could not find one
which began with ‘K’. If he had we should never have solved the riddle.”

“Oh, don’t let us talk any more about the riddle or the sad events connected
with it,” cried Fuller, a shade passing over his happy face; “let us leave the
past alone and live in the present.”

“I am living in the future when we shall be husband and wife.”

“That desirable state of things will come into being to-morrow.”

“I know,” Marie nestled in her lover’s arms. “But I want to talk of all that has
happened Alan. Then we will say no more about it.”

“But, Marie, we have talked over everything again and again.”

“I dare say; but I want to ask questions and to be quite satisfied in my own
mind that everything disagreeable is at an end.”

“Very good,” said Alan, resigning himself to the inevitable with a good grace,
for he knew Marie’s obstinacy of yore. “What do you wish to say?”

“Well, in the first place, I am still sorry that poor Mr. Bakche did not live to
get his share of the jewels. For you know, Alan, they really did belong to him
as a descendant of the Rajah of Kam.”

“My dearest, the jewels were legally assigned to George Inderwick for a very
great service. I am sure that the Rajah of Kam in those days would rather have
lost his jewels than his wife and only son. As to Bakche, I am sorry that he
died in so terrible a way, and had he lived, undoubtedly I should have kept the
promise made on your behalf and handed over one third of the treasure. But
Bakche did not act well, or honorably.”

“What do you mean?” asked Marie opening her azure eyes very widely, “If he had
not spoken out, poor Uncle Ran might have been hanged.”

“Quite so, dear. But he only spoke out when bribed to do so. He knew all along
that Miss Grison was guilty, and yet held his tongue.”

“He wouldn’t have done so had Uncle Ran been brought to trial?”

Alan smiled grimly. “I shouldn’t like to have given him the chance,” he said in
a skeptical tone. “Bakche, like most people, acted in an entirely selfish way,
and was ready to sacrifice every one for the sake of gaining his own ends. Had
Miss Grison given him the peacock, and had he solved the riddle and secured the
jewels, he would not have confessed what he knew.”

“But Jotty might have done so.”

“It’s not improbable,” admitted Fuller musingly. “Jotty was wonderfully greedy,
and was willing to sell anyone for quids, as he called them. He certainly sold
Miss Grison for the sake of the few gems your uncle gave him. However, let us
hope that the reformatory Inspector Moon has placed him in will improve him into
a decent member of society. He’s sharp enough and clever enough to do well in
the world.”

“But he hasn’t had a fair chance, dear.”

“Perhaps not; but he has one now. Miss Grison gave him one also, but only
because he knew too much and the brat was aware that he had her under his thumb.
However, Marie, I have told Moon that when Jotty improves you and I will give
him enough money to go to America and make a new start. So that disposes of
Jotty.”

“I wonder Miss Grison didn’t stick that horrid stiletto into him,” said Miss
Inderwick with a shudder “seeing how he betrayed her.”

“He would not have done so had not Bakche told his story, and it was Bakche she
hated most. It was truly wonderful how cunningly she managed to get close to the
man to stab him. None of us thought when she walked up to him so quietly that
she intended murder. And she drove it right into his heart, weak as she was. I
expect,” added Alan musingly, “that is what Bakche meant when he said that a
weak arm could drive a stiletto into a sleeping man as easily as a strong one
could. I thought at the time he meant Jotty, but he referred to Miss Grison,
little thinking that the very next day she would prove the truth of his words on
himself.”

“But she was mad, Alan, quite mad.”

“So it was proved at the trial,” said Fuller with a shrug, “but I have my
suspicion, Marie, that Miss Grison was acting a part. I don’t think that her
brain was quite properly balanced, but her cunning in planning and plotting to
implicate your uncle in the crime very nearly succeeded. She certainly was not
mad when she acted in that way.”

“Mad people are always cunning and clever; Alan,” insisted Miss Inderwick.
“Well, let us give Miss Grison the benefit of the doubt. She can do no more harm
now that she is shut up in that asylum as a criminal lunatic, and your uncle
must be relieved to think she is safely out of the way.”

“All the same he has gone to live in Switzerland in a little mountain hotel, my
dear,” said Marie nodding wisely. “He told me that he never would be satisfied
until he had placed the ocean between him and his unhappy wife, and chose
Switzerland as the best place to stay in.”

“Which means that he has only placed the Channel between him and his bugbear,”
said Fuller dryly. “Well, Marie, I can’t say that I am sorry Mr. Sorley came to
that determination, as it leaves us The Monastery to ourselves, and such is his
dread lest his wife should escape that he will never come to England again, even
for a visit.”

“I don’t think you are quite fair to Uncle Ran, dear.”

“Marie, you have said that again and again, and there is no truth in it, I
assure you. I have every desire to be fair to the miserable man, and so has
Dick, let alone my father and mother. But now that his deeds have come to light
they all mistrust him. He certainly did not murder Baldwin Grison, but he
assuredly ruined his life by driving him away, even though the poor wretch gave
certain provocation for his dismissal. And you can’t say that he behaved well to
his wife. He married her for her good looks, and then grew weary of her, as such
a selfish man would. When he had her under his thumb through the love she bore
her brother, which impelled her to save him from arrest for forgery by
sacrificing herself, your Uncle Ran, whom you think so highly of——”

“No I don’t. But I’m sorry for him, dear.”

“I don’t think he needs your sorrow, or deserves your pity,” said Alan in a
grave tone. “He was quite ready to commit bigamy for money because he knew that
Mrs. Sorley would not speak of her marriage on account of the hold he had over
Baldwin. Luckily the rich girl he wished to marry died, so another complication
was avoided. He is selfishly happy in Switzerland with his jewels, and because
he knows that the woman he wronged so deeply is shut up. I think we may as well
do our best to forget Uncle Ran.”

“Yes, but Alan, he was very good to me as my guardian.”

“I don’t agree with you, Marie, and if you think so, it shows what a truly sweet
nature you have. He sold furniture which belonged to you and took your income,
and kept you short in every way. He didn’t bully you, I admit, but he didn’t
look after your welfare in any manner whatsoever. You know that what I say is
true.”

“Yes,” sighed Marie. “Well then, we won’t talk any more about him. I know that
he is quite happy where he is, and I’m sure I don’t want him to come and make an
inconvenient third in our lives, Alan.”

“He won’t,” her lover assured her seriously. “He is far too much afraid of Miss
Grison, or rather Mrs. Sorley, escaping from her asylum. He is out of our lives,
Marie, and as he is happy in his own selfish way, why there is no more to be
said. There are plenty of pleasanter subjects to talk about, my dear. Indeed, I
never liked your uncle, and I always mistrusted him, as I had every reason to.”

“I shan’t talk of him any more, as I know you are right. And now that the jewels
have sold so well and we have plenty of money we can repair The Monastery and
improve the grounds, and you can be country squire.”

“My dear, I am a solicitor, and I shall always be one. I can’t live on my wife,
you know.”

“But Alan, you will be away all the week.”

“Not at all. I can come down every night. It isn’t a long run to town.”

“I want you all to myself here,” pouted Marie, “what’s the use of my having this
horrid money unless I can have you. And half of it is yours, Alan, for unless
you had solved the riddle it would not have come into my possession.”

The young man was quiet for a few moments revolving what she had said. Much as
he liked his profession, he secretly admitted that it would be very pleasant to
play the part of a country gentleman. And certainly the discovery of the jewels
was due to him. Also it was he who had saved the girl’s uncle from a
disagreeable death, and thus had prevented her from suffering a life-long shame
and regret. Finally there was much to be done in connection with the house and
the park and with certain lands which Marie wished to buy back, as having
belonged to former spendthrift Inderwicks. Alan thought that he could do a great
deal of good as the squire of Belstone, especially as his father was the vicar
of the parish. Therefore he began to consider that it would not be a bad thing
to give up the dingy office in Chancery Lane and come back to the land. “And of
course I could enter Parliament,” he muttered, following his line of thought.
“Yes I could do good there.”

“Of course,” cried Marie, clapping her hands, and guessing what he had been
thinking about, “and perhaps you’ll get into the Cabinet and the King may give
you a title and——”

“And the moon is made of green cheese,” laughed Alan, giving her a hug. “I dare
say I shall give up the law, Marie, since you wish it, and we can do a lot of
good down here on your money.”

“Yours also, darling, yours also.”

“Very well, mine also. But we can talk of this on our honeymoon when we are
strolling over those glorious Cornish moors. Now, Marie, let us go back to the
house. You know Dick is coming to be my best man, and he is bound to walk over
here as soon as he arrives at the vicarage.”

“I asked him to come with your father and mother, who are due here to afternoon
tea,” said Marie slipping off the circle of stones. “Oh!” Alan looked at his
watch. “Four o’clock. Then I expect they have arrived. Come along, my darling.”

“Only one more question,” said Marie as they, walked away from the dell. “What
is it?”

“You know that Simon Ferrier went back to India after burying the gems.”

“He didn’t bury them, he put them in Yarbury’s Bank, dear. You forget.”

“Well, you know what I mean,” said Marie impatiently. “He hid the gems so that
Julian Inderwick wouldn’t get them.”

“Yes; that’s old history. Well?”

“Well,” echoed Marie. “Simon Ferrier went back to tell George Inderwick where
the jewels were to be found and never anticipated capture.”

“True, oh queen! But what does all this lead to?”

“To this! Simon Ferrier had arranged the enigma of the peacock before he left
England, and at a time when he never anticipated that he would have any
difficulty in speaking personally to his master.”

“I see what you mean. Well, my dear, all I can suppose is, that Ferrier was an
over-cautious man, and made ready the enigma in case anything should prevent his
reaching George Inderwick, as he certainly never did. When in captivity he
worked out his scheme with the ring and the peacock exactly as he had planned it
in England.”

“But there was no need to when he was here,” insisted Marie. “No. But as I said
before Simon Ferrier undoubtedly was an over-cautious man; witness the fact that
he made so ingenious a cryptogram—if it can be called so—that even the man he
designed to benefit could not solve it. And in its very ease lay its difficulty.
I can’t answer your question in any other way, dear. Not that it matters. We
have the money, and everything is right, so let us enjoy our good fortune, and
be thankful that none of those wasteful ancestors of yours solved the riddle.
Had they done so I fear you would not be so rich.”

“I think that is very true,” said Marie with a laugh; “but here we are, darling,
and there is Mr. Latimer.”

It was indeed Dick arrayed in white flannels looking big and burly and genial,
and more like a good-natured bear than ever. He held out a hand to each at the
same time, and walked towards the house between them. “How are the happy pair?”
he asked gaily. “We won’t be a truly happy pair until to-morrow,” said Alan.
“Speak for yourself, dear,” said Marie lightly. “I am happy enough now.”

“You deserve to be,” said Dick smiling, “for you have come through a lot of
trouble, and that always makes hearts grow fonder. But do come and give me some
tea, Mrs. Fuller—I beg your pardon, Miss Inderwick, but you and Alan do look
just like a married couple.”

“What’s that about marriage?” asked the vicar appearing at the drawing-room
door—the trio were in the house by this time, “have Marie and Alan been studying
the prayer-book.”

“Of course,” said the girl, running forward to kiss Mrs. Fuller. “I know the
ceremony by heart.”

“It’s more than I do,” wailed Latimer with a shrug, “and as best man, I am sure
to be a dismal failure.”

“Oh you’ll pull through somehow,” the future bridegroom assured him. “You must
give me hints then. And when you are off for your honeymoon to Cornwall, I shall
find it dismal in those Barkers Inn chambers all alone.”

“Get married yourself then,” advised the vicar. “Upon my word I must think
seriously about it,” said Dick. “What do you say, Mrs. Fuller. Can’t you find me
a nice girl?”

“Not one so nice as Marie,” said Mrs. Fuller, looking fondly at the graceful
form of Miss Inderwick as her hands hovered over the tea-cups. “No, I agree with
you there, mother,” said Alan, taking up a plate of bread and butter; “Marie is
a rare bird.”

“A rare bird indeed. Why not a peacock?”

Mrs. Fuller shuddered. “Oh don’t talk of peacocks!”

“Why not?” asked the vicar, “all the happiness of the present is really due to
the peacock. Marie, my dear,” he observed as he took his tea, “I used to laugh
at the idea of your fetish, but really things have come about so strangely that
I think there is something in it.”

“Behold our benefactor,” cried Alan, pointing towards the bay-window at the