CHAPTER I.

SEA-EYES--MONSIEUR GALIFARD--THE FIRST NEEDLE-PRICK                1

CHAPTER II. MY FIRST DISTINCTION--MY FIRST GRIEVANCE--THE DAMENWALZER--THE
FRIGHTFUL MONSTER--THE READJUSTED SCARF--THE SECOND NEEDLE-PRICK   7

CHAPTER III. MY MASTERPIECE AND MY HUT
24

CHAPTER IV. PETÖFI WITH US--PLANS FOR THE FUTURE--THE RAPE OF THE BRIDES--
AMATEUR THEATRICALS--MY MENSHIKOV                         40

CHAPTER V.

OLYMPIAN STRIVINGS                                                54

CHAPTER VI. AN ODD DUEL--THE FATEFUL LETTER J.--I ALSO BECOME A PETER GYURICZA
60

CHAPTER VII. WELTSCHMERZ CONDITIONS--"REMAIN OR FLY!" 74

CHAPTER VIII. PETER GYURICZA'S CONSORT
80

CHAPTER IX. THE WOMAN WHO WENT ALONG WITH ME                                 117

CHAPTER X. WHERE THE WORLD IS WALLED UP                                     132

CHAPTER XI. VALENTINE BÁLVÁNYOSSI AND TIHAMÉR RENGETEGI                      140

CHAPTER XII. THE MEETING AT THE PAGAN ALTAR
151

CHAPTER XIII. WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THAT
190

CHAPTER XIV. THE DEMON'S BAIT
247

CHAPTER XV. MARVELS NOT TO BE SEEN FOR MONEY                                 266

CHAPTER XVI. SOLDIERING
297

CHAPTER XVII. TEMPTATION
309

CHAPTER XVIII. A COLD DOUCHE! 321

CHAPTER XIX. ESAIAS MEDVÉSI
357

CHAPTER XX. CONFESSION                                                       379

CHAPTER XXI. MARIA NOSTRA
394

PREFACE

The pessimistic tone of Continental fiction, and its pronounced preference for
minute and morbid analysis, are quite revolutionizing the modern novel. Fiction
is ceasing to be a branch of art, and fast becoming, instead, a branch of
science. The aim of the novelist, apparently, is to lecture instead of to amuse
his readers. Plot, incident, and description are being sacrificed more and more
to the dissection of peculiar and abnormal types of character, and the story is
too often lost in physiological details or psychological studies. The wave of
_Naturalism_, as it is called (though nothing could really be more unnatural),
has spread from France all over Europe. The Spanish and Italian novels are but
pale reflections of the French novel. The German Naturalists have all the
qualities of the French School, minus its grace. In Holland, the so-called
_Sensitivists_ are at great pains to combine a coarse materialism with a sickly
sentimentality. Much more original, but equally depressing, is the new school of
Scandinavian novelists represented by such names as Garborg, Strindberg,
Jacobsen, Löffler, Hamsun, and Björnson (at least in his later works), all of
whom are more or less under the influence of Ibsenism, which may be roughly
defined as a radical revolt against conventionality. In point of thoroughness
some of these Northern worthies are not a whit behind their fellow craftsmen in
France. The novel of the year in Norway for 1891 was a loathsomely
circumstantial account of slow starvation. There is a lady novelist in the same
country who could give points to Zola himself; and nearly every work of
Strindberg's has scandalized a large portion of the public in Sweden. Nay, even
remote Finland has been reached at last by the wave of _Naturalism_ in fiction,
and Respectability there is still in tears at the perversion of the most gifted
of Finnish novelists, Juhani Aho. In the Slavonic countries also the
pessimistic, analytical novel is paramount, though considerably chastened by
Slavonic mysticism, and modified by peculiar political and social conditions.
Though much nobler in sentiment, the novel in Poland, Russia, and Bohemia is
quite as melancholy in character as the general run of fiction elsewhere. A
minor key predominates them all. There is no room for humour in the mental
vivisection which now passes for _Belles-lettres_. We may learn something, no
doubt, from these _fin de siècle_ novelists, but to get a single healthy laugh
out of any one of them is quite impossible. There is, however, one country which
is a singular exception to this general rule. In Hungary the good old novel of
incident and adventure is still held in high honour, and humour is of the very
essence of the national literature. This curious isolated phenomenon is due, in
great measure, to the immense influence of the veteran novelist, Maurus Jókai,
who may be said to have created the modern Hungarian novel,[1] and who has
already written more romances than any man can hope to read in a life-time.
Jókai is a great poet. He possesses a gorgeous fancy, an all-embracing
imagination, and a constructive skill unsurpassed in modern fiction; but his
most delightful quality is his humour, a humour of the cheeriest, heartiest
sort, without a single _soupçon_ of ill-nature about it, a quality precious in
any age, and doubly so in an overwrought, supercivilized age like our own.
Lovers of literature must always regret, however, that the great Hungarian
romancer has been so prodigal of his rare gifts. He has written far too much,
and his works vary immensely. Between such masterpieces, for instance, as
"_Karpáthy Zoltán_" and "_Az arány ember_" on the one hand, and such pot-boilers
as "_Nincsen Ordög_," or even "_Szerelem Bolondjai_," on the other, the interval
is truly abysmal. But that such a difference is due not to exhaustion, but
simply to excessive exuberance, is evident from the story which we now present
for the first time to English readers. "_A tengerszemü hölgy_" is certainly the
most brilliant of Jókai's later, and perhaps[2] the most humorous of all his
works. It was justly crowned by the Hungarian Academy as the best Magyar novel
of the year 1890, and well sustains the long-established reputation of the
master. Apart from the intensely dramatic incidents of the story, and the
originality and vividness of the characterization, "_A tengerszemü hölgy_" is
especially interesting as being, to a very great extent, autobiographical. It is
not indeed a _professed_ record of the author's life-like "_Emlékeim_" (My
Memoirs) for instance. It professes to be a novel, and a most startling novel it
is. Yet in none of Jókai's other novels does he tell us so much about himself,
his home, and his early struggles both as an author and a patriot; _he_ is one
of the chief characters in his own romance. Of the heroine, Bessy, I was about
to say that she stood alone in fiction, but there is a certain superficial
resemblance, purely accidental of course, between her and that other delightful
and original rogue of romance, Mrs. Desborough, in Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson's
"More New Arabian Nights," though all who have had the privilege of making the
acquaintance of both ladies will feel bound to admit that Jókai's Bessy, with
her five husbands, is even more piquant, stimulating, and fascinating than Mr.
Stevenson's charming and elusive heroine. R. NISBET BAIN. [Footnote 1: I do not
forget _Kármán_, _Jósika_, and _Eötvös_, but the former was an imitator of
Richardson, and the two latter of Walter Scott.] [Footnote 2: I say "perhaps,"
as I can only claim to have read twenty-five out of Jókai's one hundred and
fifty novels.] EYES LIKE THE SEA

CHAPTER I

SEA-EYES--MONSIEUR GALIFARD--THE FIRST NEEDLE-PRICK

Never in my life have I seen such wonderful eyes! One might construct a whole
astronomy out of them. Every changeful mood was there reflected; so I have
called them "Eyes like the Sea." *       *       *       *       *

When first I met pretty Bessy, we were both children. She was twelve years old,
I was a hobbledehoy of sixteen. We were learning dancing together. A Frenchman
had taken up his quarters in our town, an itinerant dancing-master, who set the
whole place in a whirl. His name was Monsieur Galifard. He had an
extraordinarily large head, a bronzed complexion, eyebrows running into each
other, and short legs; and on the very tip of his large aquiline nose was a big
wart. Yet, for all that, he was really charming. Whenever he danced or spoke, he
instantly became irresistible. All our womankind came thither on his account;
all of them I say, from nine years old and upwards to an age that was quite
incalculable. I recall the worthy man with the liveliest gratitude. I have to
thank him for the waltz and the quadrille, as well as for the art of picking up
a fallen fan without turning my back upon the lady. Bessy was the master's
greatest trouble. She would never keep time; she would never take to the elegant
"_pli_," and he could never wean her from her wild and frolicsome ways. Woe to
the dancer who became her partner! I, however, considered all this perfectly
natural. When any one is lovely, rich, and well-born, she has the right to be
regarded as the exception to every rule. That she was lovely you could tell at
the very first glance; that she was rich anybody could tell from the silver
coach in which she rode; and by combining the fact that every one called her
mother "Your Ladyship" with the fact that even the "country people" kissed her
hand, you easily arrived at the conclusion that she must be well-born. Her lady-
mother and her companion, a gentlewoman of a certain age, were present at every
dancing lesson, as also was the girl's aunt, a major's widow in receipt of a
pension. Thus Bessy was under a threefold inspection, the natural consequence of
which was that she could do just as she liked, for every one of her guardians
privately argued, "Why should I take the trouble of looking after this little
girl when the other two are doing the same thing?" and so all three were always
occupied with their own affairs. The mother was a lady who loved to bask on the
sunny side of life; her widowhood pined for consolation. She had her officially
recognised wooers, with more or less serious intentions, graduated according to
rank and quality. The companion was the scion of a noble family. All her
brothers were officers. Her father was a Chamberlain at Court; his _own_ chamber
was about the last place in the world to seek him in. The young lady's toilets
were of the richest; she also had the reputation of being a beauty, and was
famed for her finished dancing. Still, time had already called her attention to
the seriousness of her surroundings; for Bessy, the daughter of the house, had
begun to shoot up in the most alarming manner, and four or five summers more
might make a rival of her. Her occupation during the dancing hour was therefore
of such a nature as to draw her somewhat aside lest people should observe with
whom and in what manner she was diverting herself, for there is many an evil
feminine eye that can read all sorts of things in a mere exchange of glances or
a squeeze of the hand, and then, of course, such things are always talked to
death. But it was the aunt most of all who sought for pretexts to vanish from
the dancing-room. She wanted to taste every dish and pasty in the buffet before
any one else, and well-grounded investigators said of her, besides, that she was
addicted to the dark pleasure of taking snuff, which naturally demanded great
secrecy. When, however, she was in the dancing-room, she would sit down beside
some kindred gossiper, and then they both got so engrossed in the delight of
running down all their acquaintances, that they had not a thought for anything
else. So Bessy could do what she liked. She could dance _csárdás_[3] figures in
the Damensolo; smack her _vis-à-vis_ on the hands in the _tour de mains_, and
tell anecdotes in such a loud voice that they could be heard all over the room;
and when she laughed she would press both hands between her knees in open
defiance of Monsieur Galifard's repeated expostulations. [Footnote 3: The
national dance of Hungary.] One evening there was a grand practice in the
dancing-room. With the little girls came big girls, and with the big girls big
lads. Such lubbers seem to think that they have a covenanted right to cut out
little fellows like me. Luckily, worthy Galifard was a good-natured fellow, who
would not allow his _protégés_ to be thrust to the wall. "Nix cache-cache
spielen, Monsieur Maurice. Allons! Walzer geht an. Nur courage. Ne cherchez pas
toujours das allerschlekteste Tänzerin! Fangen sie Fräulein Erzsike par la main.
Valsez là. "[4] And with that he seized my hand, led me up to Bessy, placed my
hand in hers, and then "ein, zwei." [Footnote 4: "Don't play hide-and-seek,
Master Maurice. Off you go! 'Tis a waltz, remember. Come, come! courage. Don't
always pick out the worst partner. Take Miss Bessy by the hand. Waltz away!"]
Now, the waltzes of those days were very different from the waltzes we dance
now. The waltz of to-day is a mere joke; but waltzing then was a serious
business. Both partners kept the upper parts of their bodies as far apart as
possible, whilst their feet were planted close together. Then the upper parts
went moving off to the same time, and the legs were obliged to slide as quickly
as they could after the flying bodies. It was a dance worthy of will-o'-the-
wisps. The master kept following us all the time, and never ceased his
stimulating assurances: "Très bien, Monsieur Maurice! Ça va ausgezeiknet! 'Alten
sie brav la demoiselle! Nix auf die Füsse schauen. Regardez aux yeux. Das ist
riktig. Embrassiren ist besser als embarrasiren! Pouah! Da liegst schon alle
beide! "[5]

[Footnote 5: "Very good, Master Maurice! That's capital! Hold the lady nicely!
Don't look at your feet. Look at her eyes. That's right! To embrace is better
than to embarrass. Pooh! There, they both are together!"] No, not quite so bad
as that! I had foreseen the inevitable tumble, and in order to save my partner I
sacrificed myself by falling on my knees, _she_ scarcely touched the floor with
the tip of her finger. My knee was not much the worse for the fall, but I split
my pantaloons just above the knee. I was annihilated. A greater blow than that
can befall no man. Bessy laughed at my desperate situation, but the next moment
she had compassion upon me. "Wait a bit," said she, "and I'll sew it up with my
darning-needle." Then she fished up a darning-needle from one of the many
mysterious folds of her dress, and, kneeling down before me, hastily darned up
the rent in my dove-coloured pantaloons, and in her great haste she pricked me
to the very quick with the beneficent but dangerous implement. "I didn't prick
you, did I?" she asked, looking at me with those large eyes of hers which seemed
to speak of such goodness of heart. "No," I said; yet I felt the prick of that
needle even then. Then we went on dancing. I distinguished myself marvellously.
With a needle-prick in my knee, and another who knows where, I whirled Bessy
three times round the room, so that when I brought her back to the _garde des
dames_, it seemed to me as if three-and-thirty mothers, aunts, and companions
were revolving around me. CHAPTER II

MY FIRST DISTINCTION--MY FIRST GRIEVANCE--THE DAMENWALZER--THE FRIGHTFUL MONSTER
--THE READJUSTED SCARF--THE SECOND NEEDLE-PRICK

I am really most grateful to Monsieur Galifard. I have to thank him for the
first distinction I ever enjoyed in my life. This was the never-to-be-forgotten
circumstance that when my colleagues, the young hopefuls of the Academy of
Jurisprudence at Kecskemet, gave a lawyers' ball, they unanimously chose me to
be the _elötánczos_. [6] To this day I am proud of that distinction; what must I
have been then? On the heels of this honour speedily came a second. The very
same year, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, on the occasion of the competition
for the Teleki prize, honourably mentioned my tragedy, "The Jew Boy," and there
were even two competent judges, Vörösmarty and Bajza,[7] who considered it
worthy of the prize.... When, therefore, I returned to my native town, after an
absence of three years, I found that a certain _renommée_ had preceded me. I had
also very good reasons for returning home. The legal curriculum in my time
embraced four years. The third year was given to the _patveria_, the fourth year
to the _jurateria_. [8] Every respectable man goes through the patveria in his
own country, but the _jurateria_ at Buda-Pest. [Footnote 6: The dancer who leads
off the ball.] [Footnote 7: Two of the most eminent Hungarian poets.] [Footnote
8: Different branches of Hungarian law.] And I had something else to boast of,
too. In my leisure hours I painted portraits, miniatures in oil. So well did I
hit off the Judge of Osziny (and he did not give me a sitting either) that every
one recognised him; but a still greater sensation was caused by my portrait of
the wife of the Procurator Fiscal, who passed for one of the prettiest women in
the town. And yet, despite all this, when in the following Shrovetide the Lord
Lieutenant gave a ball to the county (they were something like Lord Lieutenants
in those days), I was _not_ called upon to open the ball! Ungrateful fatherland!
And who was it, pray, who caused me this bitter slight? A dandy, who did not
belong to our town at all; a certain Muki Bagotay, of whom the world only knew
that he had been to Paris, and was a good match. In my rage I had resolved not
to dance at the Lord Lieutenant's ball, although I had received an invitation.
Moreover, my indignation was increased by the circumstance that rumour had
already designated Bessy as the semi-official partner of the opener of the ball.
However, Nemesis overtook the pair of them. At this ball Bessy wore a frisure _à
l'Anglaise_, which did not suit her face at all; and I rejoiced beforehand at
the misadventure I clearly foresaw, for I was certain that her flying
dishevelled hair would catch in the buttons of her partner's dress-coat. As for
Muki Bagotay himself, the first time we cast eyes upon him, my young brother and
I immediately agreed that it was an absolute impertinence to be so handsome.
Only a romance-writer has the right to produce such perfect figures; they have
no business to exist in reality. I comforted myself with the reflection that
such a handsome fellow _must_ be a blockhead. I didn't know then that dulness
was fashionable. Why, even _gold_ has a dull ring! But I was a very
inexperienced youngster in those days. I had no down on my face, I did not know
how to smoke, I would not have drunk wine for worlds, and had never even looked
a lady in the face. But, as I said before, Nemesis overtook them. The dance
opened with a waltz. If _I_ had been master of the ceremonies, I should have
started with a _körmagyar_. [9] Ah! that _körmagyar_. That is something like a
dance. It requires enthusiasm to dance _that_, and you want eight or sixteen
couples to dance it properly, and all thirty-two dancers must dance it with
histrionic precision, and that was not an easy thing to do, I can tell you. But,
then, Bagotay was all for waltzes. The "Pecsovics"! [10]

[Footnote 9: An old Hungarian round dance.] [Footnote 10: One who preferred
foreign and especially Austrian customs to Hungarian.] But there's a Nemesis! It
was the regular custom then for the band to play ten or twelve bars of each
dance before it began, and then stop for a few moments so that the public might
know whether the next dance was to be a polka, quadrille, or waltz. Muki Bagotay
did not know this (what did he know, forsooth? ), so when the band gave the
usual signal, he took his partner on his arm and started off with her in a fine
whirl, till the band suddenly stopped, and they found themselves high and dry at
the other end of the room with no music for their feet to dance to; so they had
to sneak back shamefacedly to the place from whence they had started. Bessy was
furious, and Muki was full of excuses; you would have taken them for a married
couple of six months' standing. Serve them right! I did not watch them dance any
more, but sat down in a corner and sketched caricatures on the back of my
invitation card. Then I made my way to the buffet to drink almond-tea, and
gathered round me two or three _blasé_ young men, like myself weary of
existence. Let the gay company inside there try and amuse themselves without our
assistance if they could! Suddenly some one tapped me on the shoulder with a
fan, then I recognised a voice; it was Bessy. "What," she said, "not content
with flying from the dancing-room yourself, must you keep away other dancers
also! Come back, sir! A _Damenwalzer_ is beginning." For the privilege of a
_Damenwalzer_ I capitulated unconditionally of course. Having completed the turn
round the room with my partner, I led Bessy back to her mother, and thanked her
for the never-to-be-forgotten distinction. She had to be off again almost
immediately, for the voice of the master of the ceremonies announced a cotillon.
The couples flew round with the velocity of will-o'-the-wisp. But her mother
remained where she was, and there was an empty chair beside her. "You are quite
forgetting your old acquaintances," said she, breathing heavily (she was stout
and suffered from asthma). "You don't trouble your head about us now you have
become a famous man." A famous man! What! then does _she_ also know that the
Academy of Sciences honourably mentioned my tragedy? No, no! My other fame it
was that had reached her--my pictorial successes. "We have seen the lovely
portrait that you painted. Yes, it was Madame Müller to the life--just as she
looked fifteen years ago. Why did you not rather paint her daughter, she is much
prettier? But you don't like painting girls, do you--you are afraid it is a
losing game, eh?" The lady had certainly very peculiar expressions. Of course I
could only reply that I was not a bit afraid, and that if they would let me, I
should have the greatest pleasure in painting Miss Bessy. She was gracious
enough to give her consent. The only thing was to fix when it should be. It
could not be at once, as for some days after a ball young ladies do not look
their best. Then they had to get ready for another dancing party, or were busy,
and on Sundays they went to church. At last, however, after much calculation, a
day was hunted up on which Bessy was free to sit to me. Then there was another
question for consideration: was the portrait to be painted on ivory with water-
colours, or on linen with oils? "Ivory is better," I insinuated, "because one
can always wipe off a portrait in water-colours with a wet sponge whenever one
likes." The lady remarked the self-reproach, and was gracious enough to
neutralize it by a contradiction. "Then I declare for oils, for we wish to keep
the picture for ever." I felt that I could have done anything for her. Meanwhile
the cotillon had come to an end. Bessy returned to her mother, and the companion
also resumed her place. The chair which I had appropriated belonged to her, and
resigning it to its lawful possessor, I would have withdrawn, but the lady
considered it her duty to present me to the ruling planet of the day, Muki
Bagotay, who was escorting back his partner. She immediately acquainted him with
my artistic qualifications, and made it generally known that I was going in a
few days to paint her daughter's portrait. On the afternoon of the day appointed
I appeared at Bessy's house. I had sent on beforehand my easel and my canvas by
our servant. I found not a single soul of a lackey either in the passage or the
ante-chamber. I was obliged to stand there and wait till some one came to
announce me, and in the meantime I could not help overhearing the conversation
in the adjoining room. "You are a good-for-nothing rascal yourself--a shameful,
impertinent fellow!" I recognised the voice of the mistress of the house. In
reply came a protesting shriek. "Where is there a stick?" cried the lady. And at
the same instant a hoarse voice replied: "Madame, vous êtes une friponne!" A
pretty conversation truly. I had certainly arrived at the wrong time. Meanwhile
the door opened, and the flunkey came in rubbing one of his hands with the
other; he was evidently in pain. "Have you been beaten?" cried I, in amazement;
to which he angrily replied: "No! I have been _bitten_." What, actually bitten
the footman! "Would you kindly walk in, sir; they are waiting for you." The
moment I entered the room this enigmatical state of things was immediately plain
to me. The personage to whom her ladyship was meting out these offensive
epithets, and who was returning her such contemptuous replies, was a grey parrot
who had just bitten the lackey in the finger and been chastised for this
misdeed. The whole company was in the utmost excitement. There was a large
assembly both of ladies and gentlemen; amongst the latter my eye immediately
caught sight of Muki Bagotay. But the chief personage was the parrot. He was a
grey-liveried, red-tailed, big-billed monster, and he stood in the middle of the
tea-table in a threatening attitude. Somehow or other he had contrived to open
the door of his bronze cage, and in a twinkling he stood in the midst of the
tea-things on the covered table. "Oh, I only hope he won't get on my head!"
cried a somewhat elderly lady, holding on to her chignon with both hands. Nobody
dared to assume the offensive. The footman who had attempted to seize the
fugitive had already been laid _hors de combat_ by the winged rebel, while the
parlour-maid declared that she would not go near him if they gave her the whole
house. The lady of the house meanwhile was making little dabs at the bird with a
small Spanish cane, and calling it all sorts of abusive names; but the warlike
pet always grasped the end of the cane with its strong beak, while he repaid
with interest the injurious epithets bestowed upon him. When I joined the
company I was scarcely noticed and the lady of the house, in reply to my
salutation, "I kiss your hand," said, "You infamous scoundrel!" though she
immediately added, "I did not mean you." --"You're one yourself," retorted the
bird. "Come now, find a rhyme to that, Mr. Rhymster!" said Mr. Muki Bagotay. The
wretch was apostrophizing me.--Rhymster, indeed! "Don't go near it!" cried
Bessy; "he might bite your hand, and then you would not be able to paint me."
They'd terrify me, eh? It only needed that. I instantly went straight for the
bird. I would have done so had it been the double-headed Russian eagle itself.
Was it divination which made me hit upon the proper word to say to such a human-
voiced monster? "Give me your head!" said I. And at that word the terrible
wretch bobbed down his head till he was actually standing on his curved beak,
while I scratched his head with my index finger, which gratified him so much
that he began to flutter his wings. Then I hazarded a second command. "Give me
your foot!" And then, to the general amazement, the parrot raised its formidable
three-pronged foot and clasped me tightly round the index finger with its claws;
then it seized my thumb with its other foot, and allowed me to lift it from the
table. Nor was that all. While I held it on my hand, just as the mediæval
huntsmen held their falcons, the parrot bent its head over my hand and began to
distribute kisses; but finally he went through every variation of the kiss till
it was a perfect scandal. The ladies laughed. "Who ever could have taught him?"
"I got the bird during the lifetime of my late lamented husband," explained the
lady of the house, with some confusion. Finally, the conquered sphinx
affectionately confided to me his name: "Little Koko! Darling Koko!" But I
transferred Koko from my fist to his cage, and put him on to the swinging ring,
which he seized, and began to climb upwards with his beak. He was a veritable
triped! On settling comfortably in his ring, he made me a low bow, and cried
with a naïve inflexion of voice--"Your humble servant!" "Positively marvellous!"
gasped the lady-mother; "you ought really to be a tamer of animals!" "I mean to
be." "Indeed! And what sort of beasts will you tame?" "Men!" Not one of them
understood me. "Well, Mr. Poet," joked Muki Bagotay, "the ballad was a success;
now let us see whether the picture also will be superlative." "How do you want
to see it?" "So!" and with that he stuck his eye-glass into the corner of his
nose. "Then you're just mistaken!" said I, "for when I paint a portrait nobody
is allowed in the room except myself and the sitter." The whole company was
amazed. Every one fancied that it would have been a public exhibition, and so
they had all congregated together to see how a person's eye, mouth and ear came
out. A large round table had been prepared for me, in order that a whole lot of
them might sit around it with their hands on their elbows, and give me general
directions as I went along: That eye a bit higher! that ringlet a little lower!
A little more red here, and a little more white there! However, I declared
plainly that I would not paint before a crowd; it was the rule in painting, I
said. When portraits were being painted, nobody must be in the atelier but the
painter and his model. Barabás,[11] too, always made that a rule. [Footnote 11:
Michael Barabás, a famous Hungarian painter, born at Markosfalu in 1810.] My
resolution produced an imposing effect on the company. It's a very nice thing
when a man can do something which nobody else can! They had to agree that Bessy
and I should sit alone in a little side room, which had only one window, and the
lower part of even this window had to be covered by a Spanish screen so as to
get a proper light. And nobody was to disturb us so long as the sitting lasted.
The first sitting did not last long. In oil painting, the image should first of
all be painted _under_, that is to say, with dull neutral colours. In those days
I had never heard of such a thing as a first coating; while it is in this stage
the picture is not fit to be looked at. It is absolutely hideous, and the better
the likeness, the worse it looks. I allowed nobody to look at it, not even
Bessy. I locked up the first essay in my painter's knapsack; it was a miniature.
At this stage it was quite sufficient if the _insetting_ had succeeded, with the
figure in profile, but the countenance quite _en face_; the shadows piled up,
but the background merely thrown out tentatively, and the fundamental colours of
the dress just insinuated. Every one will see that this last part is the hardest
of all. The company was very much deceived in its expectations when it was
informed that I had nothing to show it. Every one had expected that in an hour
and a half I should have finished the eye or the mouth at any rate; they now
thought to themselves that nothing at all would come of it. "Well, but will
Bessy look pretty in this dress?" asked her mother. What could I do at such a
question as this but look silly? As if I knew whether Bessy had had a pretty
dress on or not! All I knew was that I had had to use for it a little "English
lake," some "Neapolitan yellow," "Venetian white," and just a scrinch of "burnt
ochre." "I can tell you that it was a very tiresome amusement," said Bessy. "The
face a little more that way--Not so serious--Not so smiling--Don't sit so
stiffly--Raise your finger--Don't move about so much.--And you've laid so much
licorice-juice on my portrait that they'll fancy I'm a gipsy girl." I hastened
to assure her that this was only laying the ground work, and that on the morrow
it would be a much merrier business. The next day I was there again after an
early dinner. In the forenoon I was with my chief at the office. Thus before
dinner I was a lawyer, and after dinner I was artist, poet, and reciter. This
time there was no company. The picture proceeded briskly, and the members of the
family were allowed to come in from time to time, one by one, and have a peep at
it. I had now begun to study the face more in detail. It was an interesting
head. The face was almost heart-shaped, terminating below in a little chin which
was delicately divided by a single dimple. There were spiral-like lips of
dazzling red enamel; a slightly _retroussé_ nose, with vibrating nostrils;
round, rosy-red cheeks, with little beauty spots here and there, which I
christened "black stars in the ruddy dawning heavens!" Her densely thick hair
curled naturally, and gleamed like golden enamel, diminishing, after the manner
of Phidias' ideal Venus, the smoothest of foreheads, and fluttering the most
roguish of little ringlets over the blue-veined temples. (How could I help
learning by heart such minute details when every one of them passed beneath my
brush?) But what my brush could not possibly reproduce was her marvellous pair
of eyes. They drove me entirely to despair. I really believe that even if I had
been a true artist instead of a wretched dilettante, I should never have been
able to conjure forth their secrets. Just when I was thinking I had fixed them,
her eyes would flash, and my whole work was thrown away. At last I had to be
content with a dreamy expression, which pleased _me_, at any rate, best. The
inspecting family trio said that they had never seen such an expression on
Bessy's face; nevertheless they acknowledged, with one voice, that it was a
speaking likeness. The head was now ready, the dress was to remain till to-
morrow. On that day there was a _préférence_ party in town at the General's.
Bessy's mother was an enthusiastic _préférence_ player.... Consequently she was
not at home. The aunt alone remained as the guardian of maidens, and she used
generally to take a nap in the afternoon, or play patience. I don't know who
presided over Bessy's toilet on this occasion, perhaps nobody. That clean-cut,
pale pink bodice on other days had given full scope to her charming figure; but
on this particular day it was more insinuating than ever. It seemed to me as if
the frill of English tulle had crept considerably lower down the shoulder, nay,
lower still. One cannot imagine a lovelier masterpiece of a creative hand than
that bust. And it is a painter's right, nay, his duty, not merely to look, but
to observe. A dangerous privilege. My hand trembled, I seemed to freeze, and yet
beads of sweat stood out upon my forehead.... She, too, seemed to remark my
agitation. A roguish flame sparkled in her eye. She was now not a bit like her
yesterday's portrait. She seemed to be flouting me. And I was putting that
treacherous frill of tulle to rights in the picture, putting it where it _ought_
to have been. That is what I really call "_corriger la fortune_." At this
sitting the face was completely finished, and the dress also was painted. I
thanked the fair self-sacrificing victim, and told her that she might now look
at the picture; it was ready. The girl rose from her chair and peeped over my
shoulder. She looked at the picture and laughed in my face. "Why, you've
readjusted the frill of my dress, haven't you?" said she. "So you wore it like
that purposely, eh?" "Then was there something you didn't want to see?" "There
was something I didn't want other people to see." "Well, now, I've been looking
at you for days and days, and I've observed something _on you_ which is very
nasty, and which I don't like at all." "I had no idea you gave me so much of
your attention." "It is only a mere speck, no bigger than the eye of a bean."
"What can it be?" "The wart on your right hand." And, indeed, on my right hand,
just below the thumb, was a not very ornamental excrescence, which everybody
could see when I was writing or painting. "I cannot cut it out, because it is
just above the artery. I showed it to a doctor, and he said it would be a rather
dangerous operation." "What does the doctor know about it? I'll destroy it for
you; it won't hurt you. I learned it at school from my school-fellows. I'll
destroy it in a moment." "By incantations, eh?" "Oh, dear no! It will smart
dreadfully. But if a girl can stand it, you can." I consented. She lit a candle
forthwith, and placed it on the table beside me. Then she produced a darning-
needle from somewhere (I thought of the other darning-needle), took firm hold of
it, shoved it right down to the very roots of the wart, held up my hand, and
placed the head of the needle in the candle flame till it was heated to a white
heat. And all the time her wondrous eyes were opened round and wide, and looked
straight into my eyes with irises turned downwards. It is thus that the demons
of hell must look upon those whom they are roasting! "Does it hurt?" she hissed
between her teeth. She appeared to be in a state of ecstatic delight. "It hurts,
but it is not the needle." "Well, now you can take your wart away with you." Two
days after, the calcined wart fell from my hand, leaving behind it a little
speck no bigger than a lentil; and that speck is there still, and is of a
whiteness which contrasts strongly with the colour of the rest of the hand. And
every day I set to work writing, I must needs look at this little white spot,
and when I have looked at it long, it seems to me as if _her_ face were
appearing before me in the midst of this tiny circle just as it looked then; and
then that face runs through all its variations down to that last shape of all,
which still startles me from my slumbers. CHAPTER III

MY MASTERPIECE AND MY HUT

In the later stages of the painting we could converse. Indeed, conversation is
necessary for completing one's study of one's subject, and prevents, besides,
the constraint of sitting from becoming too tiresome. "Have you read the poems
of Petöfi? "[12]

[Footnote 12: The Burns of Hungary.] "Oh, at our house we read nothing." "Why
not?" "Because those who come to see us bring no books with them." "Then don't
you get any newspaper?" "Oh, yes, the _Journal des Demoiselles_; but it's a
frightful bore." "A Hungarian paper would be better, the _Pesti Divatlap_, for
instance." "I'll tell my mother to order it. You write for it sometimes, don't
you?" "Yes." "What?" "The description of a desert island among the sedges."
"Have you ever been on this desert island?" "No; I only imagine it." "What's the
good of that?" "It's part of a romance I'm working at." "Ah, so you write
romances! Will you put us into them?" "Oh, no! Romance writing does not consist
in merely copying down all that one sees and hears about one." "I should like to
know how you set about it?" "First of all I think out the end of the story."
"What, you begin at the end?" "Yes. Then I create the characters of the story.
Then I deal out to these characters the parts they must play, and the
vicissitudes they must go through down to the very end of the story." "Then,
according to that, none of it is true?" "It is not real, perhaps, but it may be
true, for all that." "I don't understand. And how much time do you take to write
a story? I suppose it will come out?" "Certainly." "Ah, yes, 'tis an easy thing
for you to do! You have a rich aunt at Ó Gyalla, and you've only got to say a
word to her and she'll get your book printed for you. I suppose you've only got
to ask her?" "I shall not tell my rich aunt a word about it." "Then you'll get
your book printed at Fani Weinmüller's, I suppose. Now listen, that won't do at
all. I knew an author who published his own book and went from village to
village, and persuaded every landed proprietor to buy a copy from him. That is a
rugged path." "My romance will not be one of those which the author himself has
to carry from door to door; it will be one of those for which the publisher pays
the author an honorarium." She absolutely laughed in my face. And after all,
when you come to think about it, surely it is somewhat comical when a person
comes forward and barefacedly says, "Here, I've written something in which there
is not one word of truth, and nevertheless I insist upon people reading it, and
paying me for writing it." "Do you fancy, Miss Bessy, that Petöfi was not paid
for his poems? He got two hundred florins for 'Love's Pearls.'" "'Love's
Pearls'! And pray what are they?" "Lovely poems to a beautiful girl." "And did
he get the girl?" "No, he did not." "Well, now, that _is_ a nice thing. A fellow
courts a girl, puts his feelings into verse, finally gets a basket[13] from her,
and then demands that this basket should be filled for him with silver pieces."
[Footnote 13: The Hungarian "Kosarat kapni," like the German "einen Korb
bekommen" (to get a basket), is the equivalent of our "to get a flea in one's
ear," _i.e._, "a rejection."] The same day I sent her Petöfi's "Love's Pearls,"
and his "Cypress Leaves" also. I resumed my portrait painting three days
afterwards, and immediately asked her whether she had taken up "Love's Pearls."
"Oh, yes; I took them up to dry flowers in them." "But I suppose you've just
dipped into the 'Cypress Leaves'?" "I don't like such things. I always burst
into tears; and then my nose gets quite red." I did not pursue the subject
further. Miss Bessy hastened, however, to sweeten my bitter disappointment with
the delightful intelligence that, at my suggestion, mamma had at once subscribed
to the _Pesti Divatlap_, and for six months, too. I was there when the postman
brought the first four copies of the paper. In those days every paper had to be
sent through the post in an envelope, postage stamps had not yet been
invented....

After the solemnity of breaking open the envelope, the assembled womankind
naturally looked to see if there were any pictures, especially pictures of the
fashions. Was it not called "Divatlap"? [14] And a fashionable journal it really
was. That worthy, high-souled patriot, Emericus Vahot, was labouring with iron
determination to make fashion a national affair. [Footnote 14: Fashionable
journal.] "Well, whoever wore that might exhibit herself for money!" That was
the universal verdict of the ladies. They alluded to one of the fashion
patterns. The illustrated supplement to the second number was Gabriel Egressy as
Richard III., in the dream scene, surrounded by spectres; the picture was
sketched by our countryman Valentine Kiss. Her ladyship asked me which was the
head of the principal figure, and which the feet. And I must confess that I
myself could not quite make out how Richard III. had got his head between his
knees. With the illustrated supplement to the third number, however, they were
quite satisfied. It was Rosa Laborfalvy[15] as Queen Gertrude, by Barabás, a
work of real artistic merit. This interested the ladies greatly. [Footnote 15:
Jókai's future wife, as will be seen in the sequel.] "They say she has such
wonderful eyes that there's nothing like them anywhere," said Miss Bessy. The
logical consequence of this should have been a contradiction accompanied by a
flattering compliment on my part; but all at once it was as if something so
squeezed my throat that I absolutely could not get the courtly expression out
anyhow. "I have never seen her," I replied. At the end of the fourth number was
a lithograph representing a slim, youthful figure, and beneath it was written
the name, Alexander Petöfi. It was one of the best sketches of Barabás. It is
the one absolutely faithful portrait of the immortal poet. As such he was known
by all those who lived with him, that eye gazing forth into the far distance,
that mouth opened prophetically, those hands crossed behind him as if he would
hide something in them. The whole portrait seems to say, "I _will_ be Petöfi";
all the other portraits say, "I _am_ Petöfi." This picture produced a great
impression upon the ladies, for the appearance of a lithographed portrait in a
journal was a great event. In those days there were none of the beneficent penny
papers, whose right of existence is considered amply justified if the
frontispiece represents some one battering an old woman's head in with an axe.
Only great and famous patriots enjoyed the distinction of figuring on title-
pages, and photography was not yet invented.... The appearance, then, of
Petöfi's portrait in an illustrated supplement of the _Divatlap_ created quite a
sensation.... The companion at once undertook to read the book of verses which
had been sent to the house by me. Bessy, on the other hand, desired to know
whether she would find anything of mine in the portion of the journal devoted to
the Belles-Lettres. Immediately afterwards she actually hit upon it. It was a
portion of my romance, which appeared there under the title of "Az ingovány
oáza"--"The Oasis of the Fens." "Well, I mean to read this at once." I gave her
plenty of time to do so, for I only appeared again after the lapse of several
days. She really _had_ read it. It was the first thing she told me. "Now I am
curious to know," she added, "what was the beginning of the story and what will
be the end? You know, don't you?" "How can I help knowing?" "But I don't
understand the title. Where does the 'oiseau'[16] come in?" [Footnote 16: The
Hungarian _oáza_ (oasis) and the French _oiseau_ are pronounced so very much
alike, that the ill-instructed Bessy, who had never heard of the former, not
unnaturally confounded them.] I explained to her that the "_oáz_" was not a
flying fowl, but a plot of verdure concealed in the desert. "Then why don't you
write 'island'?" She was right there. "Apropos of island," she continued, "I
often see you from the verandah of our island summer-house walking up and down
in front of our garden; yet you never give us so much as a glance, though we
make noise enough." "That is quite possible. At such times I am immersed."
"Immersed in what?" "In working at my romance." "Working and walking at the same
time?" "Such is my habit. I work out the whole scene in my head first of all,
down to the smallest details, so that when I sit down it is a mere mechanical
a-b-c sort of business." "Then according to that, when you are marching with
rapid strides up and down that long path, you neither hear nor see anything?"
"Pardon me, I see grass, trees, flowers, birds, stumps of trees, and huts of
reeds overgrown with brambles. Amongst all these I weave my thoughts like the
meshes of a spider's web. And I hear, too. I hear the piping of the yellow-
hammer, the twittering of the titmouse, the notes of the horn from distant
ships, the humming of the gnats, and they all have something to whisper to me,
something to tell me. A buzzing wasp lends wings to my imagination; but if I
meet a human face, the whole thing flies out of my thoughts, and a single 'your
humble servant' will dissolve utterly my _fata Morgana_, until I turn back and
reconstruct the ends of my spider's-web among the freshly-discovered reed-built
huts, tree-trunks and trailing flowers, when the well-known voices of the
dwellers in the wilderness bring back to me again my scattered ideas; then I
retreat into the little wooden summer-house in our garden, and there, disturbed
by nobody, I transfer to paper the images which stand before my mind." And
Bessy, contrary to my expectation, didn't laugh at this elucidation. On the
contrary, she had grown quite serious. The expression of her eyes now resembled
the expression which I had given them in her portrait. "And this gives you
pleasure?" she whispered. "It is just as if a man were to set off dreaming after
taking care beforehand that all his dreams should turn out beautiful." "Mr. Muki
Bagotay," announced the footman. I took up my hat. I could not endure that
fellow. He had already enjoyed everything in reality which existed for me only
in imagination.... The little wooden hut there in the orchard on the Danubian
islet (whether it is still there I know not) was the most splendid palace in
which I ever dwelt. 'Twas there I wrote my first romance. It is true that it had
to put up with a lot of criticism, that first romance. What, indeed, did a young
mind which knew nothing of men or of the world understand about romance writing?
And yet I loved my first work, just as much as a man loves his first-born,
though it may be deformed by all sorts of physical and spiritual defects. How
plainly I still see before me those large, wide-spreading _Reineclaude_ trees,
crammed with fruit ripe to bursting, which covered the little hut. A little
farther off was an apple-tree covered with blood-red fruit, and then a second
with taffety white, and a third with velvety apples. From the open door of the
hut one could see right along the overgrown path, which was bordered on both
sides by bowery vines. When the warm blood-red rays of summer pierced through
the meshes of the foliage, it seemed as if every shadow was of green-gold. Far
away on the banks of the Danube could be heard the delusive echoes from the
military band in the "English Garden," whilst closer at hand the yellow-hammer
piped, and a frog here and there croaked in the irrigating trenches. I was
writing the hardest part of my romance--the love part, that most undiscoverable
of all unknown worlds. One may write down a description of the marsh world from
the imagination, but not a description of the world of love. If the heart has
not already discovered it, the head can tell us nothing at all about it. All at
once the green-gold shadows were lit up by something bright. _She_ was standing
there in the door of my hut, dressed in a white frock, with a straw hat fastened
to two blue ribbons hanging upon her arm, and her dishevelled locks floating
down her shoulders. For a moment I fancied that the dream-shapes of my
imagination had taken bodily form. Then her ringing peal of laughter assured me
that a living person stood before me. "How did you come here?" "How? Why, by
walking over the soft grass, of course." "Alone?" "Alone! Why not? Whom _should_
I have brought with me, I should like to know? I suppose I may come to a
neighbour's garden unattended?" It was quite true that our gardens were only
about a hundred feet apart, lying one on each side of the common path, which ran
right through the island. "You don't seem to give me a very hearty reception,"
pouted she, as she entered my hut. My head began to swim. "On the contrary, I am
overjoyed at the honour you do me, and I'll gather for you at once some of our
princely plums." Nobody else had such plums then, and it was a good excuse,
besides, for quitting the hut. "I did not come for the sake of your princely
plums; I filch them long before you ever taste them. I have come now to see how
you make up your romance." I pointed out to her that here was the paper and
there the pen, and all a man had to do was to take up the pen, and it went on
writing of its own accord. "Then you don't peep into any book first of all?"
"You can see that I am provided with no tools of that sort." "Well, now, sit
down, and I'll sit down beside you and see how you write." And then, not waiting
for an invitation, she sat down at the end of my sofa, driving me into the
dilemma of sitting down by the table, willy-nilly, likewise. I may mention that
my hut was so narrow that the table reached from the door to the window. "I
can't write a word, though, at this moment," said I. "Why? Because I'm here?"
"Naturally." "Then read me what you have just written." "There's a lot of it."
"So much the better. I can remain here all the longer." "Won't they miss you at
home?" "They know that I am sure to turn up again." Vanity is the horn by which
one may always catch hold of a man. It flattered me to read what I had written,
whoever the listener might be. In other parts of the kingdom I had already
gained applause with my recitations, but nobody in my own narrow little town had
ever heard me speak. _Nemo profeta in patria._

And Bessy was a very appreciative audience. You could read from her face the
effect I produced and the interest she took. She rested her face on her hand,
smoothed down her hair, and fixed her attention that she might listen the
better. She seemed quite frightened at the exciting scenes, her eyes and lips
opened wide. I do not say this to praise myself, but simply as a justification
of the fact that in those days I could recite with considerable emphasis. In one
place, however, my voice began to falter. "Well, what is it? Can't you read your
own writing?" "Yes--no, I mean. I think we had better leave off here?" "Why?
You've come to the most interesting part." "I don't want to read it to you."
"Why? Do you mean to say you write such things as a girl ought not to know?"
"No, no! Anybody may read it except myself--before you." The girl laughed, but
there was something bitter in her laugh too. "Oh, don't be anxious on my
account, pray! We read, at school, things of which you have no idea. It is an
old institution among us that every girl when she marries shall write a letter
to her school friends on the very day after her wedding. We have a whole
collection of such letters." "And do you mean to tell me that _you_ have
promised to increase this collection?" I cried, with all the indignation of my
youthful mind. The girl must have guessed my anger from my face, for she cast
down her eyes and said, in a low voice: "It depends upon whose I shall be."
Immediately afterwards she laughed uproariously: "You may read your love-scene
before me." I answered more firmly than ever: "I will not read it before you."
She understood and stared at me. "You fear, perhaps, that I shall take it for a
declaration? You think, perhaps, that I shall laugh at you in consequence?" "No!
You will not laugh at me." "Then what are you afraid of?" "I do not fear, I
wait." "Wait! For what?" "I am waiting till I count for something in the world;
at present I am a mere cipher." "One who is born a man can never be a mere
cipher." "Look now! This wooden booth is at present the whole of my property,
this little pile of paper my whole claim upon the world; but in my soul there is
a vigorous flame to which I can give no name. This flame would suffice to make a
man a pretender to a throne, but it is not sufficient to make him propose to a
girl." "But you know that I am rich." "And I am still richer, for I dine
deliciously off a crust of bread, and I sleep sweetly on a bed of straw." "Well,
and that pleases me too. _I_ like a crust of bread and a bed of straw. You do
not know me. A man might make a she-devil of me, though he built a temple in my
name straight off, enshrined me on the altar, and knelt down before me. But he
whom I truly loved might make an angel of me. I could be happy anywhere: in a
shepherd's hut, a strolling player's tent, at a soldier's bivouac, in a
schoolmaster's clay cabin. I would dream of luxury on my bed of straw." And with
that, she threw herself at full length on my bare sofa, and clasped her hands
above her head. Oh, what distracting loveliness! Was it a blessing or a
chastisement on the part of guiding Providence that I was able, at that moment,
to see with my soul as well as with my eyes? This girl had in a few words
unfolded before me the whole of her coming destiny.... I sat down at her feet by
the side of the bare old sofa, and looked into her eyes. Very softly I said to
her: "She whom I love will not be my slave, but my queen. I will not filch my
happiness, but win it. And she to whom I shall dedicate my heart shall be
crowned by me with an aureola of glory, just as the rich of this world load
_their_ darlings with pearls and diamonds. The lady of my heart must be honoured
by all the world--but most of all by myself." At these words the half-closed
eyelids opened. The girl began to sob violently, leaped to her feet, threw her
arms round my neck, kissed me, and ran away. And I looked after her like one
that dreams, while the shrubs and the vine-leaves concealed her vanishing form.
The yellow-hammer cried in my ear, "Silly boy, silly boy!" And immediately there
occurred to my mind the story of the young man whose confessor gave him a bundle
of hay to eat as a penance for a sin unachieved. And now, too, when I stand
before the big silly bookcase, which is filled with nothing but my own works, I
often think, would it not have been better if they had none of them been ever
thought out? And instead of writing so much for the whole world, would it not
have been better if I had written for my own private use, just so much as would
go within the inside cover of a family Bible? Nowadays, a whole street in my
native town is called after my name: would it not have been better if all I had
there were a simple hut? But no! I willed it so, and if it were possible for me
to go back to the diverging cross-roads of my opening life, I would tread once
more in the self-same footprints that I have left so long behind me. CHAPTER IV

PETÖFI WITH US--PLANS FOR THE FUTURE--THE RAPE OF THE BRIDES--AMATEUR
THEATRICALS--MY MENSHIKOV

I really imagined that I loved and was beloved. I was always a welcome guest at
her ladyship's house, and was a regular visitor on her "at home" days. On such
occasions I learnt to know Bessy from another point of view. She was a musician
also. She could play the fiddle. Whether she played artistically I really cannot
say, for I don't understand music, and couldn't tell the difference between Paul
Racz[17] and Sarasate; but so much is certain, she knew all the cunning tricks
and poses which I admired so much in the famous musicians of a later day. She
could make arpeggios and pizzicatos like Ole Bull, _fughe di diavolo_ like
Reményi, and pianissimos like Sarasate. She could make her fiddle weep softly
like Milanollo and Miss Terezina Tua, and she could lash it savagely with her
fiddle-bow like the Russian Princess Olga Korinshka, or play with the instrument
close up to ear like a gipsy _primás_. [18] When she played she had the beauty
of a demon; every limb was set in motion, her shoulders marked time, her bosom
heaved, her body waved to and fro, her mouth smiled provocatively, her eyes
sparkled; at one moment she softly caressed the fiddle with her bow, at another
she flogged the strings unmercifully, and at the end of the performance she
stood there with the pose of a triumphant Toreadrix. At such moments every one
was fascinated by her; why, then, should I have been an exception? [Footnote 17:
A famous gipsy musician.] [Footnote 18: The leader of a gipsy band.] One day I
got a letter from Petöfi, in which he informed me he was going to call upon us
the following Sunday. I naturally skipped off to town at once, and showed the
letter to all my acquaintances. It was a great event in our little town.
Petöfi's popularity in those days was great indeed; he was worshipped from one
end of the kingdom to the other. His visit was regarded as an extraordinary
distinction. On Sunday afternoon, therefore, half the population of the town had
assembled on the island, where the landing-stage of the steamers now is. Bessy's
family was also there. All the religious persuasions were represented by the
presence of the Benedictine priests and the Calvinist and Lutheran ministers.
The captain of the civic train bands, with two lackeys in gold liveries;
represented the magistracy; and Muki Bagotay was there on behalf of the county
(he held some petty office or other), and maintained that he knew Petöfi very
well. Congratulatory speeches had been got ready, and lovely hands were to
present handsome bouquets to the coming guest. Petöfi, however, when he had
crossed over the steamship bridge to the other side, troubled himself not one
bit about the congratulatory mob, left in the lurch the lovely ladies with their
bouquets, and the distinguished gentlemen with their speeches, and, dressed as
he was in his short _carbonari_ mantle, rushed straight towards me, threw his
arms round my neck, knocked my hat from my head, and cried, "Why, Marksi! Is it
you, you old scoundrel, Marksi!" (he never would call me by my proper name),
and, with that, wrapping me in one-half of his mantle, he dragged me with him
towards the town just as if he knew the way quite well (he had never been there
before in his life). The windows of the chief thoroughfares of the town were
adorned with flowers and with fair damsels, who had tricked themselves out in
Petöfi's honour, which, when he perceived, he thrust me down a side street, and
so we got at last to our house by roundabout by-paths, on which we met not a
single soul. My worthy mother received our dear guest most heartily, not because
he was such a famous poet, but because he was my good friend. I had known him
ever since we had been students together at Pápá, when they had called him
"Petrovics." Now, however, they added a syllable to his name, and called him
"Petrekovics." Nothing used to put Petöfi into such a rage as when anybody
called him by his rejected family name. But even this he took in good part from
my mother. He never even tried to put her right. "Let me always remain
Petrekovics in your house!" he would say to her, as he kissed her hand. This was
by no means his usual custom, the only other person whose hand he used to kiss
was his own mother. The first question after that naturally was about his
favourite dish. My mother herself looked after the _cuisine_, and the following
day the whole family assembled to dinner--my brother Charles, my sister Esther,
and my brother-in-law Francis Vály included. We had scarcely risen from the
table when a lackey in silver livery arrived from Bessy's mother with a gold-
edged letter for Petöfi, in which her ladyship invited him to her "at home" that
evening. The entertainment was arranged in his honour. All the beauties and the
notabilities of the town would be there together. I had naturally received a
similar invitation some days before. 'Twas thus that Petöfi answered the
messenger--his words are recorded in the family records: "Tell her ladyship that
I am inconsolable at the impossibility of coming to her reception this evening;
but this time I have come specially to visit my beloved Marksi, and will go
nowhere else." The astonished lackey could scarcely grasp the meaning of this
terrible reply. But my mother understood it right well, and said, "Noble young
fellow!" But I said nothing, for I candidly confess that in those days I
worshipped a pretty girl far, far more than any man however famous, or any
friend however good. I tried, therefore, to explain the situation to my good
friend. "I tell you what, though; that pretty girl is there about whom I wrote
to you." "Then give _yourself_ up to that pretty girl, but don't sacrifice _me_
to her likewise." "If you could only hear how splendidly she plays the fiddle."
"Fiddle, do you say? Then don't give yourself up to her either! You know there
are three things in this world that I hate--horse-radish with milk, the critics,
and after that, music." (He could never be persuaded to listen to an opera.)
"But Tony Várady also plays the fiddle!" (I should explain that this young
lawyer shared Petöfi's room with him.) "He fiddles, it is true, but it is useful
to me." "How so?" "In our neighbourhood dwells a rascally card-player, who comes
home every night between two and three, and begins to sing. I immediately wake
Tony and say to him, 'Rise, and fiddle away at that fellow there!' Then he
begins to fiddle in a way that makes your hair stand on end, and your blood run
cold, and in ten minutes our neighbour, falling upon his knees, sobs for mercy,
and declares that he will leave off singing. However, from to-day I live no
longer with Tony." "Have you quarrelled?" "On the contrary, we are the best of
friends. But I'll tell you about that later on; let us now talk about serious
things. What have you been doing since I last saw you?" I showed him the MS. of
"Hétköznapok. "[19] It was just ready. [Footnote 19: "Every-day Days." One of
the best, if not _the_ best, of Jókai's earlier works.] "Why do you call it
'Hétköznapok'?" "In order that nobody may expect anything extraordinary in it."
He turned over the leaves, but only read the headings of the chapters. "Well,
that was an original idea of yours, I must say, to choose mottoes from popular
ballads for your chapter headings. I'll take this with me to Pest, and get it
published." "Nobody knows me." "You're wrong. Bajza and Vörösmarty are inquiring
about you. Your specimen composition has been much approved. I've squeezed
twelve florins for it out of Emericus Vahot. Frankenburg was more liberal. He
sends you fifteen for 'The Island Nepean.'" And Petöfi counted out the twenty-
seven silver florins on to the table. It was my first honorarium. I fancied
myself a Rothschild. "This romance now shall be published by Hartleben." "Are
you on good terms with him?" "I don't know the German fellow, but he's the
publisher of Ignatius Nagy's romances, and Nagy shall recommend it to him." "But
will Ignatius Nagy like to do it?" "What! When I bring him such work as yours!
He is a great enemy of mine, I know, but he is a man of honour." And with that
he thrust my manuscript into his knapsack, but without locking it. "And what
else have you written?" I produced another heap of papers. "A play entitled _Two
Guardians_." "And what do you want to do with it?" "To compete for the Academy
prize." "Don't do that! I won't allow you. You competed once, and they did not
give you the prize, and yet two Academicians were on your side; don't give them
any more. Give your pieces to the theatre." I had nothing for it but to
surrender. "Now, I'll take your piece to Szigligeti. [20] He will at once
recognise in you a dangerous rival, and for that very reason will have your
piece brought out instantly. That's the sort of man he is!" [Footnote 20:
Pseudonym of the eminent Hungarian dramatist, Joseph Szathmáry.] I entrusted my
piece to his care. "And try to get up to Pest as soon as possible. Don't go
loafing about all your days in a village!" "As soon as I have got through with
my _patvaria_ I'll hasten to join you." "Get ready to go away at once. To-morrow
I'll take you with me to Gran." I was greatly astonished. "To Gran! Why, what
business have we there?" "We go not to do business, but to _rob_. We must steal
away Tony Várady's bride for him. That is why we no longer live together." But
now the members of my family had also a word to say. Petöfi then related, quite
calmly, that our common friend, the worthy lawyer, wished to take to wife the
daughter of a landed proprietor at Gran. The girl's parents were Catholics, the
bridegroom was a Calvinist, they therefore would not permit the marriage. But
the young people really loved each other. So there was nothing for it but to
steal the bride. The thing was quite clear. I could make no objection. When a
man is poet and Protestant, girl-stealing in such a situation becomes a duty.
Just then a great parliamentary strife was going on concerning mixed marriages.
It was Guelph and Ghibelline over again. One had to choose one's party. So on
the following day I really did set out with Petöfi to steal a girl for the
benefit of a third friend. The affair succeeded beyond all expectation. We had
no need of the darkness of midnight and scaling ladders, the mere appearance of
Petöfi and myself at the bride's house was sufficient; the parents gave way, and
the priest united the two lovers. Yet for all that we always made much of our
damsel-robbing adventure. And, indeed, it seemed likely to turn out a dangerous
precedent. Example is contagious. But I returned home with the guilty
consciousness that I had absolutely spoiled the _soirée_. I expected that I
should be pretty severely taken to task for it. How should I put things to
rights again? I discovered how to make amends, but it was not without great
artfulness that I succeeded. Our city was not only the capital of the county,
but a fortress. Consequently one might frequently come upon vehicles in our
streets which consisted of little more than a round chest on two wheels, crammed
full of water-butts from the Danube, ammunition, bread, and sacks of meal, and
between the poles of these conveyances were fastened a couple of human beings in
garments of grey baize, with twenty-pound chains fastened to their legs. The
creatures were called in plain Hungarian--slaves. [21] You could hear the
rattling of their fetters from afar. On certain days while the self-same
creatures were suffering the flogging with sticks, which was part of their
sentence, their woful cries resounded through the whole town. Thus the rattling
of chains and the howls of woe were a sort of speciality in our town. And the
sight of those starved faces too! From my childish years upwards this slave-life
used to disturb my dreams. [Footnote 21: They were prisoners condemned to penal
servitude.] I got up an agitation among the more enthusiastic of the youths and
maidens of our town on behalf of the poor slaves. If the affair had succeeded, I
should of course never have bragged about it; but as I failed in it, I may as
well make a clean breast of it. It was determined, at my suggestion, to invite
Bessy's mother to be the president of our philanthropic society. A deputation
set off at once to her house, and, naturally, I was its spokesman. The
distinction thus conferred upon her quite wiped out my former offence, and I was
again taken into favour. The first problem in any case was to establish our
beneficent scheme on a sound, financial basis, and the simplest way of getting
funds was by means of an amateur entertainment. Of this, too, I was the manager.
With very great difficulty the programme was finally settled. Overture:
_Beatrice di Tenda_.--"What's the watchword? Death, torture, ruin, to the
betrayers of the fatherland!" rendered by the glee club of the College. After
that a flute duet from _Lucia di Lammermoor_, piped by the local musical society
and a young lawyer. That was to be followed by a humorous recitation of my own:
"Gregory Sonkolyi"; then came an exhibition of legerdemain by Muki Bagotay; and
last of all, as _pièce de résistance_, Bessy's fiddling. It was a terrible
business to bring all this about. We had rehearsals every day at Bessy's house.
I was very busy just then. I ought to have been working as an articled clerk,
but I'm quite sure I never looked at a law-book. At last, however, it was
possible to fix the day on which the concert would come off. Meanwhile, the time
was approaching when I ought to have passed my _patvaria_, and gone through my
_jurateria_. My elder brother Charles wrote to a well-known lawyer at Pest, who
had a large practice, to take me into his office as a juratus. And as winter was
also drawing nigh, and I was about to go far, far away into a strange world, my
good and ever-blessed mother was busying herself about my outfit. Nowadays
people will regard it as a fable, but say it I must, that all the linen I wore
during the time when I was a juratus was spun by my mother's own hands. I verily
believe that that shirt, spun by a mother's hand, and worn by me, was the magic
web which turned aside so many of the blows of fate. A tailor and a weaver lived
in some of the smaller houses we possessed; we had no need of the help of
strangers. My mother also provided me with a good winter overcoat. It was really
a capital overcoat, which covered me down to the very heels, a real Menshikov
overcoat, very fashionable forty years later, but in those days worn by nobody
but the porters of the Benedictine Order. When I appeared at the amateur
rehearsals at Bessy's house in this prematurely born Menshikov, a circle was
instantly formed round me, and every one asked me, with ironical
congratulations, where I had had it made. Was it possible to get the fellow of
it? Bessy even remarked that there was room for two in it, and I was not a bit
offended with her. When I withdrew (a letter, just arrived from Pest, called me
home), I scarcely had time to close the door behind me, when I heard an outburst
of merriment inside. When, however, I had got out into the street and turned
round to have a last look at the house I had left behind me, lo and behold! all
the windows were filled with groups of smiling faces, amongst which I saw
Bessy's face also. "They are all in a very good humour to-day," I thought to
myself. Hastening home, I found there the letter from the Pest lawyer, in which
he informed me, with official brevity, that there was a vacant place for a
juratus in his office, which I might occupy. If, however, I did not come and
claim it within three days, the vacant place would be given to some one else.
The amateur entertainment had been fixed for Sunday, and it was now Tuesday. If
I am not there by Friday, another will sit in my place. But what will become of
the concert? Ought I to leave Bessy in the lurch--so faithlessly? And how about
the poor slaves? Perhaps the lawyer at Pest would make a bargain with me and
give me a couple of days' grace? I sat down to reply to him: "Worshipful Mr.
Advocate--I feel in duty bound to say, in reply to your honourable
communication----" Yes, but what? I must tell him some lie or other. Nay, not a
lie, only a freak of fancy. A sudden illness? No, that's no joke. An uncompleted
piece of law business, which I must finish for my old chief? The Pest lawyer
will never believe that. What pretext could I hit upon to steal a little more
time? While I was still biting my pen, my mother came into the room, and said to
me: "Where have you been, my dear son?" I said I had been at Bessy's house. Then
she said: "Now, tell me, my darling, why do you run after these great people?
Don't you see that they are only making fun of you?" Something like a cold ague
fit ran down my back. Hadn't I myself seen and heard them laugh at me, and
didn't know it? and here was my mother who had neither seen nor heard it, and
yet _she_ knew it! Not another word did I say, but I went on with my letter ...
"that I will come to Pest at once to-morrow morning, and take the place of
juratus offered by you." I then showed my mother both letters, whereupon she
rewarded me with that blessed smile of hers which has made her face so
unforgettable to me. She immediately packed up my belongings and placed in my
hand what little money she had put by, so that I might not want for anything in
the expensive capital. I wanted to write to Bessy with an apology for my sudden
departure. "Don't go scribbling to them," said my mother; "I'll go myself to-
morrow to her ladyship and tell her what has happened." The following afternoon
I was sitting on the steamer, and in three days I arrived at Pest.... And for
this sudden change of fortune I had to thank my Menshikov alone. CHAPTER V[22]

OLYMPIAN STRIVINGS

[Footnote 22: This chapter is somewhat condensed.] It was Petöfi who introduced
me to my associates of the "Table of Public Opinion" (as the long table close to
the counter in the Café Pillwax was called), and who got me a place there. "This
is a true Frenchman!" said Petöfi, as he presented me to his young army of
_literati_ who were assembled there. In those days this was the highest
conceivable praise. The face of every liberty-loving nation was turned towards
France, and from thence we expected the dawn of the new era. We read nothing but
French books. Lamartine's "History of the Girondists" and Tocqueville's
"Democracy" were our bibles. Petöfi worshipped Beranger, I had found my ideal in
Victor Hugo.... This school might easily have become dangerous to us had not its
influence fortunately coincided with the opening up of a new and hitherto
unexplored field--popular literature. Hitherto it had been the endeavour of
Hungarian writers to write in a style which was distinct from the language of
ordinary life. Our group, on the other hand, started the idea that it was just
those very constructions, expressions, and modes of thought employed in every-
day life that Hungarian writers ought to take as the fundamental principle of
their writing; nay, that they should even develop the ideally beautiful, poetry
itself, from the life of the common people.... As belonging to this camp of ours
I must also reckon Sigismund Czakó, who acclimatized the modern drama to our
stage with marked success; and finally Anthony Csengery, the editor of the
_Pesti Hirlap_, who wrote nothing in the way of _belles lettres_ himself, but
whose immense erudition and thorough knowledge of literature enabled him to
exercise a most beneficial influence over the whole of our group. Amongst our
older writers also, Vörösmarty and Bajza watched over us with stimulating
encouragement; but it was Ignatius Nagy in particular who befriended us, and of
him I have the most pleasant recollections.... At this time he was a cripple. He
was rarely to be seen in the street, and then only on his wife's arm. He stopped
at home all day at his writing-table, writing those life-like sketches of the
little world of Buda-Pest which testify to such a serene good-humour. The first
time I saw him was when I went to speak to him about my novel, "Hétköznapok." He
had a most embarrassing face covered with dark-red spots right up to his
astonishingly lofty forehead, whose shiny baldness was half cut in two, as it
were, by a bright black peruke. He had also an inconceivably big red nose, at
which, however, you had no time to be amazed, so instantly were you spell-bound
by a couple of squinting eyes, one of which glared as fixedly at you as if it
were made wholly of stone. His voice, on the other hand, was as the voice of a
sick child. And within this repulsive frame dwelt the noblest of souls, in this
crippled body the most energetic of characters. From no strange face did I ever
get a kinder glance than I got from those stiff fishy eyes, and that sick voice
announced to me my first great piece of good news. Upon his recommendation, the
publisher Hartleben agreed to publish my first romance, and gave me for it 360
silver florins. In those days that was an immense fortune to me. I had no
further need to go scribbling all day long in a lawyer's office at six florins a
month. And his fatherly solicitude for me went still further. He introduced me
to Frankenburg as a dramatic critic. The editor of the _Eletképek_ had just
parted with his dramatic critic (he had been a little too unmerciful to the
artistes), and was looking out for a new colleague. By way of honorarium he
offered me a free seat at the theatre, and ten florins a month. But my year of
office came to an end the very first week. To make amends for the sins of my
predecessor, I lauded every artist to the skies, according to the dictates of my
youthful enthusiasm. And I can honestly say that I wrote it all from my very
heart. It was then that I saw a ballet for the first time in my life. It was my
solemn conviction that I was bound by a debt of gratitude to the excellent
damsel who exhibited her natural charms to the public eye with such magnanimous
frankness. And a pretty lecture Frankenburg read me for it too! "Delightful
Sylphid indeed! A clumsy stork, I should say!" Still, _that_ might have passed.
But it was my magnifying of Lilla Szilágyi who took the part of Smike in the
_Beggars of London_ which did the business for me. I said of her that she was "a
lovely sapling!" and promised her a brilliant future in her dramatic career.
"Leave her where you found her! She has got no heart that's certain!" said the
editor. "Then she'll get one!" said I. "But you'll never get to be a critic,"
said he. And so, for Lilla Szilágyi's sake, I laid down my _rôle_ of critic, and
yet I was right after all, for, as Madame Bulyovszky, she really did become a
great artiste. Now, however, I bless my fate that things fell out as they did.
Terrible thought: fancy if I now only had the reputation of a famous--critic! A
few days after that, a new career suddenly opened before me. Paul Királyi
invited me to join his newspaper, the _Jelenkor_, as a correspondent. He offered
me a salary of thirty-five florins a month. Of course I jumped at it. Newspaper
writing was a very grateful task in those days. The paper appeared thrice a
week. That was quite sufficient to give us all the news. It is different now.
Nowadays more murders, suicides, and burglaries occur in the twenty-four hours
than occurred in a whole twelvemonth then. And a newspaper contributor was then
a personage of some importance. Let me give an example:--

I lived with the dramatist, Szigligeti. In the summer we occupied a whole flat
in a brand-new house in Pipe Street, and there I had a room of my own, with an
exit opening on the staircase. The other flats were empty. The Szigligetis
flitted during the summer to the suburbs of Buda. Thus I had the whole of the
first floor of the new house at my disposal, to my great satisfaction, for I
could work away quite undisturbed. In the autumn, however, the Szigligetis
returned, and the adjoining flats at the same time got new tenants. The very
next night I discovered, to my horror, with whom I was living under the same
roof. It was the wife of the possessor of a flower-garden, who also kept a
dancing academy. What afternoons, what nights I passed! At last I could stand it
no longer, and I implored Szigligeti to appeal most energetically to the
authorities against the nuisance. Szigligeti fully shared my indignation
himself, so he posted off at once to the Town Captain to lay his complaint.
"Sir," said he, "the proprietress of a flower-garden has settled down in my
immediate neighbourhood." "But flowers must bloom somewhere, I suppose?" "But
the people dance the livelong night." "That doesn't injure any one, surely?"
"But after dancing they sit down to rest." "That is very natural." "But they
take their rest and recreation very noisily." The Town Captain shrugged his
shoulders, he could do nothing in the matter; it was a ticklish business to
interfere in; it did not fall within his jurisdiction, etc., etc. But when,
finally, Szigligeti said: "My lodger, the correspondent of the _Jelenkor_,
cannot sleep all night because of them," then, indeed, the Town Captain suddenly
leaped from his chair, set all his myrmidons in motion, and by the next day the
whole flower-garden and dancing academy was transferred to another forcing bed.
Such in those days was the authority of a newspaper correspondent.... I was
therefore no longer a mere cipher. I was a something now. And, more than that, I
was a somebody also. For it was in those days that I passed my legal
examination, and became a certificated lawyer in the ordinary and commercial
courts. My diploma, indeed, was not _præclarus_, but at any rate it was
_laudibilis_. The oral _rigorosum_ I passed through brilliantly, but in the
_scripturistik_ (there's a fine dog Latin word for you!) my _Hungarian style_
was not considered satisfactory. The publication of my legal diploma in the
county court was a sufficiently dignified excuse for a visit to my native town.
With head erect I could now enter the presence of the fairy damsel with the
sparkling "eyes like the sea." CHAPTER VI

AN ODD DUEL--THE FATEFUL LETTER J.--I ALSO BECOME A PETER GYURICZA

Emericus Vahot had discovered a youthful humorist whom he attached to the staff
of his newspaper. Ultimately he became a most eminent writer, but at first he
was quite a savage genius. He knew no languages but Hungarian and Latin. He was
really after all a very worthy young fellow. He, too, took his place amongst us
at the "Table of Public Opinion," and even brought a pair of friends with him.
One of the friends was a wry-shouldered critic, who judged the stage from a
philological point of view, but the other was Muki Bagotay. He was not a writer,
but a mere figure head. As, however, he drank with us, he considered himself as
one of us. One afternoon the humorist and Muki fell out. Muki had thought good
to boast of a certain conquest of his, the humorist had made a joke of it; a
squabble ensued, and from words they came to blows. I was not there, but I heard
all about it from those who were. There could not be a doubt that the end of it
would be a duel. Late in the evening, just as I was preparing to go to bed, the
wry-shouldered critic rushed into my room. His face was even more portentous
than usual. "I have to communicate a secret to you, but you must give me your
word as a gentleman not to let the matter go any further." "I give you my word
upon it." "Our friend is going to fight Muki Bagotay to-morrow, I am his
second." "That's all right." "Would you be so good as to lend us the weapons?"
"My friend, I only possess one pistol, and that is a double-barrelled one."
"That will just do!" "What the deuce? I suppose one of them will fire with it
first, and if he does not hit his man he'll hand it over to the other, and he'll
fire back with it?" "Precisely!" The crooked critic said this with such a solemn
face that it was impossible not to believe him. This was quite a novel mode of
duelling, and not a bad idea either. Early next morning, before I had got up,
the second again appeared before me. He brought back the fatal pistol. "It is
over," said he, with mournful dignity. "What was the result?" "Our poor friend
was hit!" "Dangerously?" "The bullet penetrated his arm. But it has been taken
out now." The news excited all my sympathy. I threw on my clothes and made my
way to the Pillwax coffee-house. I found my good friends already at the "Table
of Public Opinion," and every one of them shared my compassion. The critic
related the mournful details to us. All at once two of our comrades, Degré and
Lauka, rushed excitedly into the coffee-house. "The whole duel was a swindle!"
they cried. "There was no harm done to any one. He was not even wounded. He is
lying in bed with his arm tied up, and a bloody shirt; they are giving him ice
cataplasms--the whole thing is a pure farce!" The second, however, solemnly
maintained that his principal had been wounded. "We will convince ourselves of
the fact." "Surely you would not want them to tear the bandages from the gaping
wound?" This I also resolutely opposed, and, taking the part of my colleague,
devised another expedient. "Who was the doctor who bound up the wound?" The
critic mentioned the doctor's name. "We'll go to the doctor, then." Dr. K----y
was a worthy, honest, high-spirited fellow, who well deserved the public
respect. We rushed upon him in a body. "Tell us, now," we said, "is there a
wound on the arm of the humorist?" "There is," replied the doctor. "Is it true
that you took a bullet out of it?" "It is true." "On your professional
reputation?" "On my professional reputation." With that my friends were bound to
be satisfied. No further inquiries could be made. When, however, my two friends
had withdrawn, I remained behind with the doctor, and I said to him, "My dear
doctor, you have answered the question, did you take a bullet out of our
friend's arm? but now answer me this question, who put that bullet in?" "Egad!
egad! egad!" growled the doctor, "you imaginative people are really sad scamps!"
The fact was that our humorist and Muki Bagotay had fought an American duel:
whoever drew the black ball had--well, not to die, but to get Dr. K----y to make
a wound in his arm. The doctor, with his lancet, made an incision about two
centimètres in length and four millemètres in depth, in the epidermis just below
the biceps; into this wound he insinuated a bullet, then took it out, sewed up
the wound, and so wounded honour was amply satisfied. And I'll not say a single
word against this being the most correct mode of procedure imaginable. Then I
went home to my native town, ostensibly to advertise my legal diploma, but
really to look once more upon her from whom I had been so long absent. I was
very well received in the bosom of my family; the whole clan came together for
dinner at my mother's, and for supper at the house of my brother-in-law, Francis
Vály. The two Calvinist ministers were also invited, and one of them toasted me
as "the ward of one guardian and the guardian of two wards" (an allusion to my
father's profession and my new drama, _The Two Wards_); it was the first toast
that made me blush. The next day was the meeting of the county board, at the end
of which, with open doors, my diploma was promulgated. On that self-same day my
dear mother gave me my father's silver-mounted sword, and the cornelian signet-
ring, with the old family crest engraved upon it, which he used to wear.
Democrat as I am, I frankly confess that to me there was a soul-steeling thought
in the reflection that with this sword my worthy ancestors, who were much better
men than myself, had defended their nation, country, laws, and constitution of
yore, and that this signet-ring had put the seal upon their covenanted rights
for all time. According to ancient custom, the sword and signet-ring of the
father belonged of right to the _younger_ son; my father had given my elder
brother a ring and sword of his own when he brought home _his_ diploma. After
that, I had to pay visits of ceremony to the county and municipal authorities; I
called upon my principal also, and a pretty little girl was there whose features
I had perpetuated in a portrait; she still went to the convent school. This
little girl, I may add, never had her romance; she died young, and thus found
her true bliss. It was only in the afternoon that I was able to get to Bessy's.
Among all earthly joys, is there one that can be compared with that heart-
throbbing which a young man feels when he again approaches, after a long
absence, the woman whom he idolises, with the thought that she also has been
dreaming of him all the time? It is true that our parting had been somewhat
abrupt, and a hill of thorns had risen up between us perhaps in consequence;
but, on the other hand, my absence had had a definite, deliberate aim--I went to
win for myself name and fame, and a worldly position. And lo! but six months had
passed and all this was already accomplished. I was an author. I had the right
to speak of myself in the plural "we," like a king; nay, I had even a _better_
right, for the king can only lay the peasantry under contribution, but I could
make the gentry pay up as well, and that right was also "_Dei gratia_." I
fancied the whole world was mine, and that triumphs would go before and follow
after me whithersoever I went. I was dressed according to the latest fashion.
The famous firm of tailors, "Martinek and Korsinek," had performed a masterpiece
upon me: my feet were shod with varnished dress-shoes, I had a whale-bone cane
with a gold-headed handle, I wore Jaquemar gloves. I no longer singed my hair
with heated hair-tongs as in the days when I was a patvarist, but a hairdresser
had twisted it into ringlets; and now, too, I had a sprucely twisted moustache
and a beard. I really must make the most of all these glories to emphasize the
dramatic climax. I found Bessy's mother and her aunt in the well-known reception
room; the companion was on a visit to her relations. After the ceremonial
kissing of hands, my first question was, "And Miss Bessy?" "She is in her own
room, yonder." "May I go there?" "Oh, by all means!" It was that memorable room
in which I had painted her portrait. The girl was alone, seated by her little
table, and was bending over her embroidery frame. She really must have been very
much absorbed in her work, as otherwise she must certainly have seen through the
window that I was coming to her. It was a sort of pearl embroidery that she was
busy over, meant apparently for the cover of a portfolio. On perceiving me
enter, she hastily covered it with her handkerchief, but for all that, my eyes
caught a momentary glimpse of a large letter "J." on the embroidery. What else
could it be but the initial letter of my surname? I was confirmed in this belief
by the circumstance that on the same little table stood my portrait of her on a
gorgeous stand. She greeted me kindly, but I could detect a certain hostile
sentiment in her smile. It is only in the eyes that one can read such things,
and practised swordsmen always can tell from the expression of their opponents'
eyes how they are going to lunge. She questioned me about everything, and I
replied with great precision; but these questions and answers were mere feints:
the points of the swords were so far only twirling around each other. All at
once she lunged straight at my head with her sword. "And pray what is the
_amiable little sapling_ doing?" In my first amazement I absolutely did not know
what she was alluding to. "What sapling?" "Why, that darling little stage fairy,
of course, who kindled you to such enthusiasm." So it turned up again now! Even
here they cast it in my teeth! Was it not enough to have smarted once in my life
for pretty Lilla's sake? In vain did I assure her that never in my life had I
seen the young artiste except on the stage; that there indeed she had earned my
admiration, but that I had never felt any tender sentiment either for her or for
any other mortal maiden in the whole of Buda-Pest. "Let that go, then!" said
Bessy mockingly. "We are well informed of everything that goes on. How about
your landlord's three pretty daughters?" "Pardon me, but the eldest of them is
only nine years old." "And your gay neighbours, the flower-garden ladies?" Well,
this was simply appalling. How could I tell her the whole story? And yet I was
the very person who had got them removed. "Whom the Town Captain was forced to
interfere with? Oh, we know all about it! My little finger has whispered it to
me." I was quite confused. Who could have been tittle-tattling about me so? And
all the time her eyes were flashing sparks at me! But I was not to remain in
doubt long. A new visitor arrived, his voice was already heard in the ante-
chamber. It was Muki Bagotay. It was plain to me now that it was he who had
whispered all these things to Bessy. Into the room he rushed. He certainly was
infamously handsome. My head of curls was quite dwarfed by his. His dress was
much more fashionable than mine. And what a cocksure air he had! I dared not so
much as press Bessy's hand, while he knelt down before her and laid his hat--
together with his heart--at her feet. "Go away with you--don't be silly!" said
Bessy, by way of correction, pointing at me. "Your servant, comrade," cried
Muki, becoming aware of my presence. Then he occupied himself with me no more,
but turned towards Bessy and tried to remove the handkerchief from the
embroidery, which attempt Bessy resisted with all her might. "It's mine, after
all, you know," insisted Muki. "Then wait your turn, and you shall have it on
your birthday." His birthday! A thought flashed through my brain. Muki's name
was János. That initial letter was _his_, not mine. A dramatic climax. How
instantly Muki became the sensible fellow and I the blockhead! At that moment I
must have cut a somewhat queer figure the very type of gaping confusion. By way
of explanation Muki seized Bessy's hand and raised it to his lips, and said to
me as a matter of form, "Bessy is my betrothed." And it was for this, then, that
all these Sardanapalian accusations had been piled upon my head. The sapling of
the stage, the flower-garden, and my landlord's young ladies were the golden
bridge for a retreat. It was only then that I hit upon more sensible ideas and
hastened to congratulate them. And now I made it a point to remain where I was.
They shall see that the whole matter is of the utmost indifference to me. "You
know, I suppose," said Muki, "what was the cause of my last duel?" "That famous
duel of yours, eh?" "Yes, it was pretty famous, I think. That poor young fellow
whom I shot was a worthy comrade, but had he been my born brother I would have
shot him for his disrespectful allusions to my bride." "Go along with you, you
bloodthirsty man!" cried Bessy, with coquettish self-satisfaction. And he had
the cheek to say all this before me who knew the whole history of the duel! How
ridiculous I could have made him look, if I had told how it had happened! But do
it I wouldn't, because I felt that they were a worthy pair. I merely said: "I
must admit, friend Muki, that in the way of imagination you are much greater
than I." "And greater in other things also," said Muki, half drawing his sword.
"We'll see about that one of these days in the fencing-school." "What! That
swindling fencing! Wrestling is the thing to test a man's mettle. That
fashionable gymnastic rubbish is a mere farce. I should like to see a fellow do
what I can do when I go out on my _puszta_. [23] I have a stout _gulgásy_[24]
there, Peter Gyuricza, with whom I am wont to wrestle. A stalwart fellow, hard
as a stone; he can keep the upper hand over a hundred steers. Twice out of three
bouts have I floored Peter Gyuricza, and Peter Gyuricza has only floored me
once." [Footnote 23: The Hungarian steppe or great plain.] [Footnote 24: Neat-
herd, peculiar to Hungary.] "A pretty pastime, certainly." "It is not to be
learnt by pen-scribbling or brush-daubing, anyhow." That I had to let pass, for
there's no getting over the truth. It is not only true that I was no Samson, but
it is also true that, compared with a hundred oxen, my poor Pegasus was but a
sorry beast of draught. But Muki Bagotay was not even content with this triumph,
he wanted to absolutely trample me beneath his feet; and as if he had only just
observed for the first time the picture of Bessy painted by me, he chose to make
_that_ the bone of contention. "Meanwhile, till I possess the original, I
appropriate this picture." Bessy protested. "No, no, I will not part with that."
But Muki thereupon took the picture from the table and held it aloft, so that
Bessy could not get it out of his hand. She begged, implored, raved, but Muki
only laughed and said he meant to stick to the picture. It was then that my ill-
humour got the better of me. "Sir," said I, laying my hand on his shoulder, "put
down that portrait! I did not paint it for you." How scornfully he looked at me
over his shoulder! "_You_ would needs try conclusions with me--_you_, a mere
poet!" And he flung himself upon me with the pious resolve of forcing me out of
Bessy's boudoir into the ante-chamber. When he saw that I resisted, he threw
both his arms round my body. I also hugged him, and to work we went straightway.
Muki was furious because I would not allow my frame to be smashed so easily.
Bessy began shrieking, and took refuge in the bow window. Suddenly I rallied all
my strength and pitched Muki on to the sofa with such violence that the back of
it cracked and came off. "I also am a Peter Gyuricza!" I cried. I would not have
exchanged that triumph for all the glory in the world. At the noise of this
great scuffle, the mother and the aunt rushed into the room, and great was their
indignation when they saw me kneeling on Muki's breast. "Let me get up, fellow!"
said my antagonist. All that I wanted to do was to take the portrait from the
hands of its unlawful possessor. Meanwhile the poor portrait had got terribly
mauled. During the struggle it had fallen to the ground, and the pair of us had
left the impression of our heels upon it. Bessy burst into tears when she saw
the wreckage of her own portrait, but her mother lamented over the broken sofa.
I comforted Bessy with the assurance that I would make the damaged portrait all
right again--there were special colours for that. "But she must not sit again,"
hastily intervened her mother. She was afraid I should begin coming to the house
again and spoil the good match. "And I haven't got that dress either," said
Bessy. It certainly was a pretty dress. Would that she had never had it! I
assured them, however, that I would be able to put the picture to rights at
home, all by myself. And with that I put it in my pocket. I never went back
there again. The mother and the aunt ostentatiously occupied themselves with
Muki, expressing all the time their regretful sympathy, at which he was beside
himself for fury. I beat a retreat without any attempt to say good-bye. But
Bessy ran after me, and, overtaking me in the doorway, seized my hand, and
whispered in an ardent voice, "You'll put _me_ to rights, won't you?" "The
_portrait_? oh yes!" *       *       *       *       *

An hour afterwards I was sitting on the steamer and gazing at the lingering
smoke which hid my native town from my eyes. It was just as if I were returning
from a funeral. CHAPTER VII

WELTSCHMERZ CONDITIONS[25]--"REMAIN OR FLY!" [Footnote 25: _Világ fájdalmas_
állapotok. There is no English equivalent of _Világ fájdalmas_.] When I got back
to Pest, I found two letters awaiting me on my writing-table, one from Tony
Várady, inviting me to stand godfather to his new-born son, and the other from
Petöfi, informing me that he had just been married to Julia Szendrey, and that
they were having very happy days at Teleky's Castle, Koltó. Both of these
friends were poor fellows, like myself; and the ladies who had chosen to be
their companions through life were girls belonging to wealthy, eminent families,
accustomed to luxury and splendour, surrounded by obsequious wooers, and their
mothers loved them as the apples of their eyes. Their families opposed the
marriages, and the enamoured young ladies, handicapped as they were by the
weight of their parents' refusal, followed their beloveds notwithstanding. Then
true love is no dream after all, but pure gold. And yet when I seek this pure
gold they call me a crazy alchemist! And now Petöfi begged me by letter to seek
out a convenient lodging for him, where they and I could live together. That a
newly-married bridegroom should invite his faithful bachelor comrade to be a
fellow-lodger with him is a fact which belongs to the realm of fairy tales. I
immediately hunted up in Tobacco Street a nice first-floor-apartment,[26]
consisting of three chambers and their domestic offices; the first room was for
the Petöfis, the second for me, while the intermediate one was to be a common
dining-room, and there were separate entrances for each of us. [Footnote 26:
Used here in the French sense of a suite of rooms.] The young couple came in
during the autumn; they kept one maid, and I had an old servant. We had both
very primitive furniture. Mrs. Petöfi had left her father's house without a
dowry; she had not so much as a fashionable hat to bless herself with; she had
sewed herself together a sort of head-dress of her own invention, which she
never wore. Her hair was cut short, so that she looked like a little boy. They
had nothing, and yet they were very happy! Julia's sole amusement was to learn
English from Petöfi, and afterwards, at dinner (which was sent in from "The
Eagle"), we spoke English, and laughed at each other's blunders. And I had to be
a witness of their bliss every day! It was just as if one were to season hell
with piquant pepper. Just about this time there appeared in _Eletképek_ some
very ordinary verses entitled "Word-Echoes," by one "Aggteleki,"[27] ostensibly
addressed to a certain actress. I am now able to confess that _I_ was the author
of those verses. But for all that (though the verses were not so bad) I solemnly
forbid any one at any time to include these verses among my works, for even now,
forty years after the event, I am not such an old, decrepit, suicidally inclined
fellow as Aggteleki was. [Footnote 27: Aged Teleki.] But, indeed, every one of
the works that I wrote at that period breathe the same bitter tone. The
paroxysms of a crushed spirit, the dreamy phantoms of a diseased imagination,
self-contempt, a moon-sick view of the world in general, characterise all my
tales belonging to that period. And yet they pleased people then. I even had
imitators. I turned Petöfi himself away from the right path. He himself
confessed that his novel entitled "Hóhér Kötele"[28] was written under the
influence of my "Nyomarék naplója,"[29] a literary abortion. [Footnote 28: "The
Hangman's Rope." It certainly is a wretched performance.--TR.] [Footnote 29:
"The Cripple's Diary."] Who knows whither I should have got to with my tower of
Babel, had not a healthy earthquake brought it to the ground? One day Petöfi
caught me in the act of touching up Bessy's portrait. He saw from my eyes that I
had been weeping. I tried to hide it, for I was a bit ashamed. "_It is well that
it is so, my son_," said he on that occasion; "_it is men who are unhappy that
the world wants now._"

A memorable saying! It was in those days that he wrote "I dream, I dream of
bloody days," and "My Songs," with this final strophe, all blood and fire:--

"Wherefore doth this race of thralls endure it? Wherefore rise not? Rend your
chains and cure it! Do ye wait, forsooth! till God's good pleasure     Rusts
them off, and makes them drop at leisure?" And then he would lead me into his
room. On the walls there, in handsome frames, hung the portraits of the chiefs
of the French Revolution--this was his only luxury--Danton, Robespierre, Camille
Desmoulins, Saint-Juste, Madame Roland. There, too, the parts we were to play
were distributed; Saint-Juste was designed for me, Madame Roland for Julia. And
then we spoke of "the bloody days." They were to be no mere dream, we were to
see them with our eyes wide open. And we were to be among the first to feel
them. A healthy-minded man would have been ready after such words as these to
have left the house by jumping out of the window; but they had a charm for me.
It suited my peculiar frame of mind just then to set on fire the Dejanira robe
that was about me, and then rush out among the people and set them on fire also.
"Man's fate is woman!" Had that young lady the last time I held her hand in mine
said "Stay!" I should certainly have remained. I should have crept into my
little nook of bliss and never have gazed after the moonshine of fame. In that
case I should now perhaps have been one of the judicial assessors at the Royal
Courts, and have joined heartily in the laugh when one or other of my colleagues
at the end of a friendly banquet might take it into his head to quote some
monstrous sentences out of my earliest romance, an imperfect copy of which turns
up now and then as a literary curiosity among other antiquarian rubbish. This is
what would have happened if the young lady had said "Stay!" But if that young
lady had said "Fly!" then I should have flown like the rest after the falling
stars. And, indeed, of those who stood with me on the 11th March[30] before the
mob on the balcony of the town-hall to announce "This is the day of national
liberty!" of those my youthful-visaged, warm-hearted comrades, three have
perished in defence of that word "Liberty" then pronounced: those three names
are "Petöfi,"[31] "Vasváry," "Bozzai." And certainly, in that case, the four
ounces of lead, or the cossack's lance, or the grenade splinter which killed
them, might have sufficed for me also--that is, of course, if that young lady
had said "Fly!" Fate, in fact, confronted me with this paradox--"Either live and
be forgotten, or be remembered as one who died young!" [Footnote 30: When the
Hungarian revolution of 1848 began.] [Footnote 31: Petöfi was most probably
killed at the battle of Segesvár in July, 1849; at any rate he was never seen or
heard of afterwards. He was only twenty-seven, and in him the world lost one of
its great lyric poets.] "Stay!" or "Fly!" Then a voice said to me: "Go! but let
us go together!" But it was not the voice of the lady with the eyes like the
sea. *       *       *       *       *

One morning Petöfi rushed into my room roaring with laughter. "Ha! ha! ha! Do
you want to laugh? Just catch hold of that _Honderü_." And into my hands he
thrust the latest number of the opposition paper. I immediately caught sight of
what had made him laugh so much. There was a magnificent description from my
native town of the wedding which had taken place between Mr. János Nepomuk
Bagotay and the world-renowned beauty--I didn't trouble to look at the name.
"The happy pair will spend their honeymoon at Paris!" "Ha! ha! ha! ha!" CHAPTER
VIII

PETER GYURICZA'S CONSORT

After the March days, I quitted the Petöfis and went into another lodging. I had
got on so well that I could maintain a bachelor's establishment, consisting of
two rooms, which I furnished myself. Properly speaking, it only became a
bachelor's establishment when I entered, for before I took it it was occupied by
a little old woman who kept a registry office for providing respectable families
with servants. Every one knew "Mámi," as she was called.... I was very well
satisfied with my lodging, which quite answered all my requirements. It had this
one drawback, however, that a whole mob of cooks, parlour-maids, and nursery-
maids were constantly opening my door under the persuasion that I could provide
them with places, and they disturbed my work terribly. Besides, this constant
flow of petticoats towards my door was sufficient of itself to bring a young man
into disrepute. From the apartments at the opposite end of the corridor it was
possible to catch a glimpse of my door, and it was just in these very apartments
that Rosa Laborfalvy lived. I was afraid that _some one_ might think ill of me.
It was no longer the _Weltschmerz_, but a _Privatschmerz_,[32] that afflicted
me. [Footnote 32: _Privát fájdalmas_--private anxiety.] Again I had applied
myself to portrait-painting. A tall, slender girl in a white atlas dress, with
large black eyes, and coal-black ringlets _à l'Anglaise_ rolling down to her
shoulders, was standing on my easel; I was just giving it the finishing-touch, I
had no need for the original to be my model. I have the portrait to this day.
All at once there came a knocking at my door "Come in!" The door opened, and in
came a stylish young peasant girl. I thought as much; here we have another
nursery-maid in search of a place. "No, no; go away! The registry-office lady
does not live here!" said I viciously, for I was busy with my portrait; and
perceiving that the intruder did not retire even now, I bawled out, not over
gently: "In Heaven's name, be off, my dear!" At this the peasant girl began to
laugh. Had I not heard that laughing voice somewhere before? I turned round and
looked at her, and the more I looked, the more astonished I felt. It was Bessy!
She wore a bright red gown trimmed with yellowish-green flowers, over that a
dark blue, double-bordered damask apron, and a black silk bodice with puff
sleeves. Above the bodice was a bib with beautifully embroidered palm flowers;
on her head sat a cockscomb like Haube, frilled with starched thread-lace; on
her arm she carried a covered basket by the handle. Her face was ruddy and
bronzed from exposure to the sun, and a sort of waggish little imp was nestling
provocatively in her smiling features. I couldn't believe my own eyes. "What!
don't you know me?" she cried, with a merry laugh. "I'm Bessy!" I saw that, but
for the life of me I could not conceive what her object was in coming
masquerading like this through the streets of Buda in broad daylight. And to hit
upon _my_ lodgings of all places in the world! "Madame de Bagotay?" I stammered
in my confusion. "Oh, I am no longer Madame Bagotay, but Madame Peter Gyuricza!"
"What on earth do you mean? Mrs. Gyuricza! The wife of a herdsman?" My amazement
was so genuine that Bessy clapped her hands together with glee. "Then you
actually don't know about it? They haven't written to you from home?" "It is a
long time since I received a letter from home." "But this was a scandal which
set seven counties in an uproar; there has been nothing like it since the French
Revolution--and you call yourself the editor of a newspaper!" "My paper does not
meddle with purely family matters." Bessy's face was flushed, and she began
smoothing it with the palms of both hands; she thought, perhaps, that she would
brush the tell-tale blush away. "I have heated myself a little on that steep
staircase of yours," she said. She blamed the staircase for that flaming face of
hers. It then occurred to me that it would only be polite to ask my fair visitor
to take a seat. I offered her the sofa. "Oh, dear, no! That's only for ladies!
This will do quite well enough for me." And with that she sat down on my trunk,
and put down her basket beside it. "I really am quite tired. I have travelled by
the corn-boat as far as Vácz,[33] and thence I have walked all the way to Pest."
[Footnote 33: Waitzen.] "But you could have gone by steamer?" "But my master[34]
could not give me steamboat fare. We are poor people. Look! this is my whole
provision for the journey." [Footnote 34: _i.e._, husband.] And with that she
lifted the lid of the basket, and showed me what was inside it: a piece of black
bread, and something wrapped up in greasy paper--a piece of cheese possibly, and
a garlic-seasoned sausage. "I must keep this for my return journey." The
cynicism of the proceeding revolted me. "But now, if you please, I should very
much like to know what's the meaning of it all. Is it a practical joke you are
playing upon me?" "Oh, no! certainly not! Pray don't suppose that I have dressed
up on your account. I am now a real peasant woman, and such I mean to remain. It
is a serious thing for me, I can tell you, and I've come to you, not that you
may write about it in your paper, but that you may give me advice." "_I_ give
_you_ advice?" "Certainly! Whom else should I ask? The whole world condemns and
tramples upon me, and yet I have offended nobody, not even in thought. You are
the only one I have injured, bitterly injured, so it is from you that I must
seek protection." Woman's logic with a vengeance! I stood up in front of her,
leaning on the edge of the table. I was contriving all the time to prevent her
from seeing the portrait I was painting. "I'll begin from the very beginning,"
continued the lady, lowering her long eyelashes. "I was married. So much you
know. We gave a splendid banquet. The whole town, half the county was there. I
fancy they described it in the newspapers; and why shouldn't they, when the
richest, best-known, and most handsome girl in the town was married to the ideal
cavalier? The lady brought a dowry of 100,000 florins, and the gentleman
conveyed his bride to his ancestral castle in a carriage drawn by four fiery
horses. The universal envy was a more piquant grace to the meal than the
benediction of the priest. The gentlemen envied the bridegroom, and the ladies
envied the bride, and every one was forced to say: 'A couple made for each
other.' Alas! the only joy which remained in my heart when I came out of church
and looked among the crowd was the thought, 'Ah! you all envy me, I know!' "We
went straight from church to my husband's castle," continued Bessy. "Thirty
carriages escorted us. I counted them. A splendid banquet followed. That day I
changed my dress four times. The fifth time I put on a lace _négligé_, and the
bridesmaids led me to the bridal chamber. This room was a veritable masterpiece
of upholstery. A Vienna furnisher had decorated it most elaborately. I couldn't
sleep all night. The voice of the bass viol and the clarionet resounded in my
ears from the banqueting-room, and the noise and uproar of the guests also. I
did not see my husband till the morning. Then the guests began to disperse. Only
now and then did a cracked and piping voice mingle with the frantic music of the
gipsies. Then it was that my husband appeared before me, and a pitiable object
he looked. He called me his darling little sister, and asked me if I could tell
him where he lived. Then he undressed himself on the sofa and talked such
nonsense that at last I couldn't help laughing. 'Well,' said I to myself, 'I
suppose this is always the way when they take leave of their bachelordom.' Then
sleep overcame me and I dreamed the silliest stuff. _You_ were continually in my
dreams. But why mention such things now?" With that she readjusted the kerchief
which was tied around her head-dress and proceeded:--

"It was afternoon when I awoke. I must have wept a great deal in my dreams, for
the pillow on which my head lay was quite wet. My husband was no longer reposing
on the sofa, but sprawling on the floor like a stuffed frog. It cost me a great
deal of trouble to shake him into life again. It was a still greater effort to
make him understand in what part of the world he was, and in what relations we
stood to each other here below. After that he insisted upon my crawling with him
under the sofa, and when I wouldn't hear of it, he began to cry like a child,
and demanded a pistol from me that he might blow his brains out. Then I brought
a washing-basin and washed his face for him, and ducked it once or twice in cold
water. He roared like a baby who is being tubbed, but finally recovered his
spirits, and allowed himself to be raised from the ground. Then he drank out of
the water-jug, and his eyes opened, but they were as tiny as a mole's, and I now
perceived for the first time that they were a little crooked." During this
narration Bessy laughed and laughed again. "What a sight the fellow did look!
his hair all rumpled, his moustache all askew, his clothes soiled and tousled.
He had to be dressed all over again. I began to scold him a little, 'A pretty
condition of things, I must say!' To which he replied that I ought to have seen
his comrades, Nusi, and Lenezi, and Blekus, and how _they_ had been settled.
They had all fallen under the table, and he had remained the victor. And he
yawned so much as he told me this, that I had to beg him not to swallow me. At
last I got him to sit down on a chair while I did his hair for him, and he
meanwhile howled and swore continually that every single hair pained him as much
as if devils were tweaking him with iron pincers." Again the lady stopped to
laugh. "That's quite a novel state of things to you, eh? A person who becomes
the bride of an out-and-out dandy must expect to see something extraordinary.
But perhaps there was nothing extraordinary in it after all. And now the banquet
was resumed, commencing with a pick-me-up. I presided at the table with a turban
on my head. All our guests were still drunk. I had to listen to very peculiar
anecdotes. At such times the best man is he who can pay the new bride the
compliment which will make her blush the most. The lady guests had all departed
in the morning, and had come to bid me good-bye one by one. They all wept over
me--it is the usual thing. I was the only lady left, and glad was I when I
managed to get away from the gentlemen. I think that they had been awaiting my
withdrawal; they could then continue their interrupted pastime. Again I could
not sleep; my head was throbbing. For the first time in my life I recognised the
existence of the headache, that frightful curse of feminine nerves which I had
hitherto always put down to affectation or imagination. How good it would have
been for me if some one had laid a cool, refreshing hand upon my temples!
Perhaps a single word of comfort would have relieved my pangs! I waited for it
in vain. I sent a message. He never came to me. Suddenly, while an oppressive
dream was benumbing my pain, a hellish uproar awoke me. I fancied that
Pandemonium had been let loose. It was only my husband, but he had brought with
him the whole of his drunken crew. I saw before me a whole legion of them, with
guffawing, sardonic, lascivious, distorted faces, and amongst them my husband,
with the grin of a satyr on his idiotic face. I rose in terror from my bed, cast
my counterpane around me, fled into my waiting-maid's room, and barricaded
myself behind the door. There he thumped and thundered for some time. I
threatened to throw myself out of the window if he broke in by force. Thereupon
some of his comrades, in whom a little human feeling still remained, contrived
to drag him away, though not without difficulty. Then followed a little sulky
squabble on both sides. I wouldn't leave my room for four-and-twenty hours; he
wouldn't come to me. The noise that he made over head was sufficient evidence to
me that he hadn't committed suicide in the meantime. The third day was passed by
the bridal guests in a more profitable occupation. They played at cards. The
table, vigorously punched by their fists, proclaimed their handiwork aloud. It
was like blacksmiths' apprentices pounding iron on the anvil with sledgehammers.
Only in the morning did 'my lord and master' turn up while I was still only
half-dressed. He was sober then, and, what is more, ill-tempered. His loss at
cards was mirrored in his face like a guilty conscience. He frankly told me all
about it. He had been peppered finely, and his comrades were vile curs.... Such
was my wedding." Bessy covered her face with both her hands. Was she laughing?
Was she weeping? I cannot say. All at once she asked me, "Did you ever play at
cards?" "Yes, but only for copper coins." "It's all one. You ought not to waste
your time with it." "Well, really, I only spend that time on it which I do not
know how to employ otherwise, the time when I am tired of work, and want a rest
from thinking. Cards are very good things at such times." "Then what a pity
girls also do not learn the science of card-playing at school, just as they
learn to find out towns on maps, or gather the properties of exotic plants and
animals from zoological albums; then at least a newly-married bride would
understand why it is necessary to subtract so much from her heritage to
sacrifice it to such mythological deities as _skiz_ and _pagát_. [35] ..."

[Footnote 35: Terms used in Tarok.] Meanwhile I didn't interrupt her, but
remained standing and looking at her with my hands resting on the table. This
seemed to put her out. "Why don't you smoke a cigar? Don't mind me." "I would
only remind you that you used always to make fun of me because I didn't smoke."
"True. Smoking becomes a man. A cigar or a pipe makes his face so cosy-looking.
Just look at any man who hasn't a pipe stuck into his mouth, and tell me if he
doesn't look like a judge pronouncing judgment, or a priest shriving a penitent?
Believe me, that one of the reasons why I was faithless to you was that you
didn't smoke. Well, at any rate, I have got my reward for it. "Now, Muki used to
suck Havannahs all day. Yes, nothing but Havannahs; but Gyuricza smokes the
coarsest tobacco, and even chews pigtail." I burst out laughing; I couldn't help
it. In what ways are a woman's graces gained! No, I wouldn't chew pigtail if the
favour of the Goddess Melpomene herself depended on it. "I will not weary you
with our diversions at Paris. There, I perceived, it is the common practice for
husband and wife to take their pleasures apart. My husband did no more than what
other husbands do. It is not good form to ask a husband who returns home at dawn
where he has been. Besides, Muki, with perfect candour, informed me all about
these places of public entertainment and the joys of _les petits soupers_; once
he took me with him to these delights--I didn't ask to go again.... I was very
glad when the season was over and we returned to our village, and after all the
bustling diversions, flirtations, visitings and boredom, I could once more be
alone and fill my straw hat with forget-me-nots on the banks of the river, as of
old on the island. You remember my visit to your rustic hut, don't you? You
remember the golden thrushes who used to speak to you? To you they said, 'Silly
boy! silly boy!' to me they cried, 'What's the good! what's the good!' On
returning to his estates my husband became quite another man: you would have
said that he was a changeling. The dainty dandy became an enthusiastic
agriculturist. He was up early, on horseback all day, went from one _puszta_ to
another, and brought home ears of barley in his hat. The only things he talked
about at home were sheepshearing and the diseases of horned cattle. He had a
stud and a neat-herd, and of the latter he appeared to be particularly proud.
Sometimes he drove me all over his demesne in a light gig. A fine demesne it
was. You might drive about it the whole day and not see the whole of it. He
showed me his herds. He told me that herds like them were not to be had in the
whole kingdom. I didn't understand it. All that I could see was that the oxen
had very large horns. But the form of the herdsman really did surprise me. He
was a veritable ancient-hero sort of a man, such as we imagine the primeval
Magyars to have been who wandered hither out of Asia. His bronzed face beamed
with health, his thick black hair whipped his shoulders with its greasy curls,
and add to that his sun-defying glance, his stately bearing, his long mantle
embroidered with tulips and cast lightly across his shoulder. His white linen
garment fluttered in the breeze, and when he raised his arm to take off his cap,
the loose fluttering short sleeves fell right back and revealed an arm like the
arm of the figure of an athlete cast in bronze. 'Why, Peter,' said I, 'is it
with you that your master is wont to wrestle?' The Hercules, thus addressed,
timidly cast down his eyes and said: 'Yes!' 'But how on earth is your master
ever able to throw you?' At this question, Peter Gyuricza shifted his mantle
from one shoulder to the other, and twisting his moustache, replied: 'As often
as his Excellency throws me I get five florins.' So that was the secret of
Muki's acrobatic triumphs. After that, the herdsman conducted us to the great
summer farm, which was a good distance from the hut where the calves are put to
rest at midday. There, a savoury luncheon, prepared by the wife of the herdsman,
awaited us. She was a buxom, smart young woman, with roguish eyes and radiating
eyebrows, all life and freshness, a true blossom of the _puszta_. [36] I caught
myself looking repeatedly in the mirror, and making comparisons between her face
and my own. After luncheon we went all round the farm, and the herdsman's wife
guided us from stable to stable. A thorn got into my foot through my slipper.
The herdsman's wife bobbed down and drew the thorn out. 'You don't feel the
thorn now, do you?' she asked, flashing a look upon me. 'I do not feel it in my
foot,' I replied." [Footnote 36: _i.e._, a true heath-flower.] Bessy paused for
a moment, and smoothed her brows with both hands as if to refresh her memory. "I
took another sort of thorn away with me. I began to be suspicious of the grand
economical zeal of my husband. Such assiduity was not natural. Early one morning
he again took horse, called to his greyhounds, and told me not to wait for him
to dinner, he would not be home till evening. A certain instinct would not let
me rest. I went out into the garden, right to the boundary fence and into the
stubble beyond, and then I went on foot into the _puszta_, through the turnip
fields and the Indian corn. Nobody saw me. The vesper-bell was ringing in the
village when I entered the courtyard of the herdsman. In the stubble I saw the
two dogs hunting a hare on their own account. Truly, a Cockney sportsman who
allows his dogs to win their own meat like that! I whistled to them, they
recognised me and came leaping around me. 'Where's your master?' The dogs
understood me. They began yelping and barking, and darted on before me helter-
skelter, with their heads between their legs as if to give me to understand that
they would lead me to the spot if I followed them. They made straight for the
hut. No doubt they fancied they were doing something very knowing. When I
marched in at the door the little servant exclaimed, 'Good gracious!' and let
fall the wooden trencher in which she was kneading some dough with a large pot-
ladle, and when I advanced towards the dwelling-room door, she stood in my way,
and said, 'Please don't go in now!' I boxed her ears for her, first on the right
side and then on the left, pushed her into a cupboard and locked the door upon
her. Then I opened the door of the dwelling-room. There was nobody there. But
the door of a little side room, which in peasants' houses is, as a rule, always
open, was closed. On the table, however, I perceived my lord's hat and his
riding-whip. I made no disturbance. The clothes of the herdsman's wife lay in a
heap on a bench. I took off my clothes and put on hers carefully, one by one. I
was just as you see me now." She stood up before me and turned herself round
that I might have a better look at her. "Then I went into the outer hut again,
and picked the ladle from the floor which the maid had let fall in her terror.
It was a mess of bacon dumplings that she had been engaged upon. I kneaded the
dough for the dumplings, I made twelve beautiful little round ones out of it,
boiled them, beat up a nice garlic sauce with them, and poured the whole lot of
it into a varnished jug, first tasting to see that it was not over salted. Then
I tied up the jar in my kerchief, and set off with it towards the pasturage. But
another idea also occurred to me. I concealed behind my apron my husband's
riding whip that was reposing on the table, and took it away with me. "The
pasturage is pretty far from the hut. It was somewhat late when I arrived there.
The herdsman was quite impatient, and had climbed up a 'look-out' tree, and when
he saw my striped dress and bright red kerchief, he began to bawl out, 'Hillo!
Come along, can't you! I'll give you what for! I'll teach you something, you
cursed blockhead! What have you done with my dinner? A pretty time when they're
already ringing vespers in the village. I suppose you've been carrying on with
his honour again? Let me catch you at it, that's all, and I'll tickle your hide
for you with my whip.' When I got up to him and lifted the kerchief from my
head, he stopped short with his mouth open. 'Well, I never! if it isn't her
ladyship!' --'True, Peter!' said I. 'I've cooked your dinner for you, and now
you see I've brought it to you. Your wife cannot come. She's learning French
from my husband. I've also brought with me my husband's whip. I found it on your
table. You may flog with it whomever you like, either me or your wife.'" Here
she stopped short. She evidently meant me to find out the rest of the story for
myself. "Poor woman!" I murmured. I was sorry and embarrassed. She burst out
laughing. "Don't pity me, pray! I am perfectly happy. Gyuricza did not strike me
with his whip. I am now mistress in the herdsman's hut." And she seemed quite
proud of it all! Then she began to tell me of her new hero with real enthusiasm.
He was what man was meant to be when first created, all strength and truth;
there was nothing artificial, nothing false, nothing effeminate about him. "When
he comes home at night he goes to the fireplace to smoke his pipe; then he
empties a can of buttermilk to the very dregs. Wine is only put upon the table
on Sundays. Then he asks, 'Have you any good dumpling soup, sweetheart?' 'Of
course I have, and cured bacon and groat pottage as well.' As soon as it is
ready we turn it out and sit down to it. We eat with tin spoons out of a large
common dish. No invitation is needed there. The lady herself fetches the water
from the spring. The master drinks one half of it and offers the other half to
his wife: 'You drink too!' And after that they don't go in for much stargazing,
nor do they care a fig for the world and all its thousand troubles. They sleep
with open doors, and the four sheep-dogs guard the house. "At three o'clock in
the morning Bessy gets up and goes into the stable to milk the cows; by dawn it
must be all done. The little milking-stool is now her throne. She pours the
fresh foaming milk into the pails and takes them into the cellar with the help
of the serving maid. When the boy sounds his horn the cows must be driven out;
they must be pastured apart from the brood-cows. And all this time the master is
eating his breakfast: peppered bacon and green leeks with good _papramorgó_,[37]
and then he follows his herds out into the pastures. The reason why he cracks
his whip so loudly is because he knows that some one is standing there in the
little door and looking after him. Then _she_ has to skim the cream from the
standing milk, churn the milk, and take the butter to market. Then she has to
buckle to bread-baking. The maid is sent to heat the oven; meanwhile she herself
is kneading the dough, then she shovels out the burning embers with the oven
scoop, and wipes down the inside of the oven with a wet kitchen-clout; then the
loaves are shot in by means of the long baking-shovel (first of all, however,
are baked the 'fire-cakes,' which 'my soul'[38] loves so much), finally the
'lock-up' stone is smeared with clay and placed in front of the oven, and one
must be ready to an instant to pull the stone from the mouth of the oven again
and take out the loaves. Meanwhile, she has had time to prepare upon the hearth
a pottage of millet and smoked bacon, and carry it quickly, pot and all, to the
pasturage, so that when the mid-day bell rings, the master may have his victuals
ready laid on his outspread fur pelisse. After dinner, beneath the shadow of the
big wild nut-tree, she may take a nap with an apron thrown over her face. On
returning home she gets out her bruised flax and heckles it, so that when the
husband returns home he finds wife and family sitting by the distaff and singing
together the spinning songs of the country folk, till the pigs come running home
with a great grunting and demand their slush.--Oh, such a life as that is pure
enjoyment!" [Footnote 37: A sort of _eau-de-vie_.] [Footnote 38: _Lelkem_,
_i.e._, "My darling."] I shook my head dubiously. "It will bore you one day."
"Bore me! Don't you recollect when I was in your lath hut I painted this very
life to you as my ideal?--A hut of rushes and a bed of straw. You spoke to me of
fame and glory. The lowing of kine, the tinkling of sheep-bells, the cracking of
whips is my delight. It was so even then. Since that time I have learnt to know
the great world, but it hasn't altered me. I am full of disgust with everything
that is to be found in palaces. Those demi-men, those Sunday husbands--those
refined and exquisitely polite she-sinners, those model sticklers for virtue who
sin through the whole ten commandments day after day, and vie even with the
ladies of the ballet, with this difference, however, that the ballet-dancers are
much more modest in private than these great ladies are in public--I am sick and
weary of the whole lot of them. I would rather have a man who never washes his
mouth after he has eaten garlic, than a man who returns home from an orgie and
pretends he has been to a political conference. The famous Hamilton bed, which
costs you a hundred ducats if you sleep in it for a single night, is
wretchedness itself compared to the bed of fresh straw on which I sleep. Believe
me when I tell you that I am perfectly happy." "I'll believe anything you like,
but there's one circumstance I cannot understand. How is it that nobody disturbs
this sweet idyll of yours? Is the one man who is so confoundedly nearly
interested in your happiness, is that man still alive? Does Muki Bagotay still
exist anywhere in the wide world?" "I fancy so." "Well, if he does, I'll only
say that what flows through his veins is milk, not blood. Is he content to carry
the horns of his hundred oxen? A rich and powerful landlord, a county magnate,
and the master of your ideal peasant!--A thousand lightnings! if I were only in
his place!" Bessy, with a sarcastic smile, folded her hands together above her
knees. "Well, come now! If you were in dear Muki's place what would _you_ do?"
"I'll tell you. I wouldn't call Peter Gyuricza out, but one fine day I would put
my democratic principles on the shelf, and collecting my heydukes and my
rustics, I'd give chase to the herdsman, trounce him according to his deserts,
and kick him out of my employment. I would get another herdsman; but as for my
wife, I'd tie her to the pummel of my saddle, and drag her like that to my
castle. That's what _I_ would do, were I the husband of Muki Bagotay's wife!" I
had certainly got a little heated. It was only afterwards that I reflected,
"What's Hecuba to me? Why should I bother my head about Peter Gyuricza?" Bessy,
however, laughed most heartily. "Ha! ha! ha! You'd have done that to me, would
you? You'd have tied me to your horse's tail and whipped me home, eh? How sorry
I am then that I did not choose you! What a fine thing it would have been if I
could have boasted of bearing the impression of your blows on my body! Tell me
now, have you ever struck any one who was unable to hit you back?" At this I was
fairly put to silence. "But let that be! You could not be so good a Muki Bagotay
as Muki Bagotay himself would have been if he could. He actually _did_ try the
very recipe which you now recommend. The very next day he sent his bailiff with
the verbal message to Peter Gyuricza to pack himself off forthwith, but me the
bailiff was to bring straight home. The bailiff gave himself airs, and would
have used force, so I gave him a sound box on the ears, which he'll not forget
in a hurry; whereupon Peter Gyuricza threw him out of the house. "Next day the
wounded honour of the offended husband resorted to still stronger measures: six
_pandurs_[39] appeared upon the scene with swords and pistols. Peter and I were
outside in the pastures. Thither they came after us. But Peter was not a bit put
out. He hastily called together his young shepherds; there were four of them;
they caught up their cudgels, and the four sheep dogs took the same side. The
six _pandurs_ never dreamt we should tackle them. The corporal of the _pandurs_
threatened to fire if we offered the least resistance. I immediately rushed
forward in front of Peter, and said to them, 'Very well! there you are! Fire!'
There was a pretty rumpus, the dogs began to bark, and at last even the stolid
steers got mad, and the big old bull rushed out of the herd and charged straight
at the _pandurs_, who were thronging round the herdsman. They took to their
heels straightway, and those who did not leave their shakos behind them might
think themselves lucky." [Footnote 39: County police.] "Why, that was quite an
epic poem!" "Wasn't it! But you haven't heard the end of it yet. After the
repulse of the second assault, Muki began to carry on the war in grim earnest.
One evening, our maid, who had been sent out as a spy, came back with the
terrifying news that his honour had sent out orders that on the following day
all his tenants were to assemble in the courtyard of the castle armed with
cudgels, flails, and pitchforks; to his huntsmen and heydukes also he had
distributed guns and ammunition. The whole of this host was to advance upon us
in battle array on the morrow. It would have been well, perhaps, to have fled
before them while there was yet time. But we did not fly." "Then what was the
end of it all?" "A very droll ending indeed. When the danger was greatest, good
luck sent a deliverer, a good friend, just as usually happens in happily-
constructed dramas, who intervened with a mighty hand and diverted the stroke
from our heads." "And who was this good friend?" "Why, who else but the bearer
of this fine blonde beard!" cried she, with an ironical smile, caressing my
chin. "I? Why, I was not in that part of the country at all." "Ah! but poets
have long arms, you know. At the very moment when Muki was placing firearms in
the hands of his peasants, freedom was proclaimed at Pest. The rumour spread
throughout the kingdom like wildfire--the Revolution had broken out. They say in
Pressburg that Petöfi and you were on the Rákos[40] at the head of 40,000
peasants, and that a new Dózsa[41] war had begun. The retainers of Muki also
thronged up to his castle, not to carry me off by force, but to demand their
liberties. 'We'll work no more!' they cried; 'we'll pay no more tithes, and no
more hearth-money. '[42] Freedom had broken out with a vengeance! Muki was
thereupon so terrified that he fled incontinently through the back door in the
clothes of his lackey, and never stopped till he was safely out of the kingdom.
I have heard nothing of him since. So you see your mighty hand turned aside the
danger that was hovering over our heads. We drank your health afterwards in big
bumpers." [Footnote 40: A plain to the east of Pest, where, from the earliest
times, elective assemblies were held.] [Footnote 41: George Dózsa, the leader of
the Hungarian _jacquerie_ of 1514, who was finally captured and executed after
truly infernal torments.] [Footnote 42: _Füstpenz_--lit., smoke money, so much
on each chimney.] I certainly had never calculated upon success of this sort.
"Well," said I, "you have certainly disposed of Mr. János Nepomuk Bagotay for a
time (though I would call your attention to the fact that he will not be very
long in perceiving that there is no Dózsa war in Hungary, and will then return
with reinforcements), but may I ask what her ladyship your mother says to all
this?" "I should have come to that, even if you had not asked me. In fact, this
is the very thing which brings me to you. One fine evening when I was returning
home from the maize fields, with my kerchief full of pods, I found an official
notification nailed on the door of our hut. The lawyer's clerk who brought it,
delighted to find nobody at home, had fastened the document to the door-post and
decamped. It gave me to understand that Muki was bringing an action against me
for adultery. A term was fixed, however, within which, according to custom, we
might appear before the priest at any place we liked and be reconciled if
possible. After the lapse of six weeks the priest would make another attempt to
bring about a reconciliation; if this did not succeed, he would bid us go to the
----! and we should have to appear before the judge instead!" I now began to see
to what I was indebted for the pleasure of her visit. I should very much have
liked to have banged the door in her face with the words: "I am not a lawyer,
though I have served my terms!" But I let her go on. "I immediately took down
the notification from the door," she resumed, "and sent my little maid with it
to town to my mother's. By way of explanation I wrote her a letter, a task not
unattended with difficulty, as Peter Gyuricza's hut was singularly ill-provided
with writing materials. First of all I had to manufacture ink from wild juniper
berries, then I carved a pen from a goose-quill; in place of paper I made use of
beautifully smooth maize leaves." "Just as the Egyptians used papyrus?" "Yes,
and if papyrus was good enough for the daughters of the Pharaohs, why shouldn't
maize-membranes be good enough for me? I wrote and told her everything that had
happened. I entirely justified my proceedings. If there was but one drop of
justice in her composition she would be bound to acknowledge that my line of
action was as clear as the day. Muki had made off with the herdsman's wife; I,
following the _lex talionis_--an eye for eye--had made off with Gyuricza. He had
brought an action against me; Gyuricza would bring an action against his own
wife. The pair of us stood on exactly the same legal footing. If the two
divorces were carried out, I meant to make the man of my choice my lawful
husband, and would become in name what I already was in fact, the wife of Peter
Gyuricza. I referred to you also in my letter." "To me?" "Yes. I argued that
there was now no difference between peasants and gentlemen, and pointed out that
since the 15th March you had omitted the privileged '_y_'[43] from the end of
your name, and had substituted for it a simple '_i_,' and you were a 'glorious
patriot,' as every one knew. Nobody therefore had any reason to be ashamed of
Peter Gyuricza. Besides, I did not mean that he should remain a herdsman any
longer; but as soon as my mother handed over to me my patrimony (so much of it I
mean as Muki had not already squandered away), I meant to purchase a farm, and
Gyuricza and I would settle down upon it as independent proprietors." [Footnote
43: The "_y_" at the end of Hungarian personal names has much the same value as
the French _de_ or the German _von_--TR.] The matter now really began to amuse
me. I could imagine to myself the Hogarthian group when the trio of ladies began
spelling out syllable by syllable the letter that had been written on a maize-
leaf. "Well! and what answer did you get?" "The answer you may easily have
anticipated. My mother replied that she repudiated me entirely, that I should
not get a farthing from her, and that I was never again to presume to show my
face in a family which I had so utterly disgraced." "And did Peter know all
about this?" "I was obliged to tell him, for my mother had nearly frightened to
death the bearer of my letter, our little serving maid. She told her that if she
ever dared to come to town again she would have her seized and tied to the
pillory (though there wasn't one), and well flogged into the bargain; so that
neither by cuffs nor entreaties was the wench to be persuaded to go to town
again. She said as much to Peter. She said she would rather lose her place. And
yet she ought to have gone every market-day to the town with cheese and butter,
for these wares were Peter's chief means of livelihood. What was I to do now? I
did this. I resolved to take the butter and cheese to market myself." "You? But
how?" "Not in a glass carriage, you may be sure. The market is a good two hours'
journey from our hut, and the direction is marked by the church tower. The
peasant women, when they pack with wares the baskets which they put on their
heads, make, first of all, a sort of wreath of rags, which they place below the
baskets to lighten the pressure and maintain the equilibrium." "And you did the
same?" "Naturally! It is no greater hardship for me, surely, than for the other
poor girls who do it. And remember, besides, that this marketing is just as
great an amusement to the peasant women as a promenade concert is to fine
ladies. There was only one little nuisance connected with it. Just at this time
all the irrigation waters had overflowed, and all the fields and meadows between
our hut and the market town were turned into a lake, through which we had to
wade." "What! you waded through the flooded fields?" "Oh, the water did not
really come above my knees. It was only here and there, by the side of the
streams, that we had to truss up our petticoats pretty high, and then we took
off our boots and carried them tied on to the handles of our baskets. That is
how all the women go." "And you picked your way along like that too?" "Again and
again! I might, indeed, have gone along by the dykes, but then I should have had
to turn into the village and make a circuit of four miles with the mud up to my
knees. Along the even marshes, on the other hand, it is pleasant going, the soft
soil does not hurt your heels, and there are no leeches." "But did no one see
you?" "What did I care? I quite enjoyed my aquatic promenade. It was every bit
as good as bathing at Trouville, and there I had by no means so ample a toilet.
On arriving in town, I at once readjusted my clothes, put on my boots, and went
to sell butter and cheese right in front of my mother's house. It was really a
capital position that I chose; a corner-house between two thoroughfares, opening
out upon the market-place." "And nobody recognised you?" "Why shouldn't they?
Every one recognised me, even the money-collector who hires out the standing-
rooms. He allowed me my standing-room gratis, because I 'belonged to the place.'
I was surrounded by quite a crowd of my former cavaliers, who bought up all my
butter, and I sold my cheese by the ounce, at fancy prices; there was quite a
run upon it. Never had Peter Gyuricza seen so much money as I brought home to
him from the sale of his butter and cheese." "And your worthy mother?" "Alas!
all that the poor thing could do was to pull down all the blinds in broad
daylight. I, however, purchased with the proceeds of the butter and cheese as
much salt and tobacco as we required, packed them all up in the basket, and,
placing it on my head, returned through the floods the same way by which I
came." "And did you do this often?" "Every market day. Sometimes it was rainy.
Then the peasant woman is wont to throw her upper garment over her head, that is
her umbrella. I had to get accustomed to that too. Once, a couple of my former
young gentlemen acquaintances took it into their heads to play me a practical
joke. They paddled a canoe out of the Danube into the submerged plain, and when
I began my wading tour they paddled after me. That did _me_ no harm, but it
turned out badly for them, for the peasant girls who went with me charged upon
them like the host of Sisera, wrested the paddles from their hands, and left
them rocking helplessly to and fro in the midst of the waters." "But hasn't the
water all dried up now?" I asked impatiently. "Oh, how he snaps at me! Of
course! Now we can go dry-shod. Only when we come to a ditch do we take off our
shoes. But, dear heart! how I do go on gabbling without ever coming to the
point. I must explain why I have come all the way hither to you, my dear Mr.
Advocate. As I will not appear before the priest to further the reconciliation
project, and my husband (my first, I mean) will do so neither, I must, of
course, appear before the judge! and as, moreover, my mother must be admonished
to hand over my little property, if you would take my case up for me I should be
exceedingly obliged to you." I told her that I did not practise as an advocate,
and that I had no experience whatever of divorce proceedings, not having been
taught the subject in the schools. Then she began to speak in a very solemn
voice. She said she had never expected me to take up her case, but had sought me
out because she had been informed that the advocates with whom I had served my
articles were very eminent practitioners; she would like to entrust her double
suit to them. As, however, she feared that they would neither receive her nor
believe her if she appeared before them in her present costume, she earnestly
begged that I would give her a letter of introduction to the firm of Molnár &
Vérchovszky for friendship's sake--or for any other price. "Well, I can do that
for you--for nothing." To write this letter I had to sit down at my writing-
table. "May I peep and see what you write about me?" "If you like." I could not
take offence at her curiosity. "I'll help you!" said she, with naïve archness,
and went and stood behind my back. I must say that she had a very odd notion of
helping me. She leant right over me so that I could feel her burning breath on
my face, and the throbbing of her heart against my shoulder. I spoiled the first
sheet of paper by writing last year's date at the top of it. Then I could not
call to mind the name of my client, and I thought one thing and wrote another.
Add to that that I made a mess of the simplest sentences, and wrote in a style
worthy of a pedantic grammarian. Finally I got hopelessly involved in the maze
of a long-winded phrase which I began but could not finish. That's what happens
to a man when he has to listen to the beating of two hearts! It was on this
self-same table that the picture stood which I have already mentioned. I had no
time to conceal it in my drawer. And why should I have tried to hide it? Was I
bound to make a mystery of it before her? Right opposite to my writing-table was
a mirror on the wall. On one occasion, when I was pursuing an elusive word, I
raised my head from my writing-desk and saw in the mirror the figure of the
woman who was standing behind my back. Oh, what a face was that! She was not
looking into my letter, but at the portrait. The eyes were turned sideways, so
that the upper parts of the whites were visible; the lips were drawn aside, and
the teeth clenched. I saw this from the mirror. And this mirror, too had the
property of making things look green. Viewed in this magic light, the fair lady
standing behind me appeared like the Iblis of the _Thousand-and-one Nights_, who
sucks the blood of her lovers and leads the dances of the dead. I finished the
letter to my old chiefs. Then I dried it with a piece of blotting-paper. Sand I
have always hated. I also felt, in this respect, like Stephen Szechenyi,[44]
who, whenever he received a sanded-letter, used to give it first of all to his
lackey to be taken out in the hall and dusted. Before enclosing the letter,
however, I turned round and handed it to her. [Footnote 44: Count Stephen
Szechenyi, "the greatest of the Magyars," was born in 1791. He brilliantly
distinguished himself at the battle of Leipsic, and at Tolentino, in 1815, at
the head of his Hussars, annihilated Murat's cavalry. After the war, he devoted
himself to domestic politics with a tact, courage, and noble liberality which
speedily made him the most popular man in Hungary. The Hungarian Academy and the
Hungarian National Theatre were founded at his initiative and mainly at his
expense. The breach with Austria in 1848 so preyed upon his mind that he went
mad, and was confined in an asylum, where he destroyed himself in 1860.--TR.]
"Would you read it, please?" The menacing spectre was no longer there. Iblis had
changed into a smiling young bride. "And how do you know that I haven't read the
letter?" she asked, in her astonishment. "My little finger whispered it to me!"
At this she burst out laughing, and pushed the letter away. "I don't mean to
read it! I know that you have written no end of good things about me." I folded
up my letter, sealed it and wrote the address--"Joseph Molnár and Alexander
Vérchovszky, Advocates." Then I handed it to her. Still she kept standing there
in front of my writing-table, twirling the letter round and round in her hands,
and gazing continually at the portrait. Her face had become quite solemn. In her
deeply downcast eyes there was a suspicious brightness testifying to restrained
tear-drops. She heaved a deep sigh. "But this is mere folly!" She thrust my
letter beneath her bodice, and in a voice of real warmth and sincerity, she
stammered: "I thank you most kindly." Then she added, in a voice half grave,
half gay: "But come now! You won't write my story in the newspapers, will you?"
"I assure you it is not my practice." "And you won't put my stupid story into a
novel or a romance, eh? At least not while I'm alive?" "Never! Put your mind at
rest on that point." "No; don't say never. Let it be only as long as I'm alive.
But when I die, wherever it may be, you shall receive a letter from me, which I
will write to you at my last hour, authorizing you to write all that you know of
me." "My dear friend, death is written much more plainly on my brow than on
yours." She shuddered. Twice she shuddered. Then she threw her basket over her
arm, and took her leave. I would have escorted her to the door of the ante-
chamber, but she held me back. "Stay where you are. I do not wish any one to see
you paying attention to a country wench." When I was by myself again and
thinking over the whole scene, it seemed to me as if a golden thrush were piping
derisively in my ear again--

"Foolish fellow! Foolish fellow!" For the second time I had let slip the
opportunity of pilfering Paradise, conceded to me by a special and peculiar
favour of the gods. I candidly confess that I am no saint.... I am a true son of
Adam, of real flesh and blood. No vow binds me to an ascetic life. Let
temptation come to me again in the shape of that pretty woman to-day and she
shall see what I am made of!... All day long these feverish imaginings haunted
me. In the drawer of my writing-table was the portrait which I once wrested in
knightly tourney from her bridegroom, and which she herself had given me to put
to rights. I went again and again to my writing-table in order to take out that
portrait and have another look at it. But that other portrait lay there on my
table and would not allow it. It was much better to leave the house. I occupied
the whole day in strolling about the town. Perhaps I may meet her somewhere in
the street. Late in the evening I returned home. I was alone. My lackey only
came to me in the morning. I had scarcely lighted my lamp when I heard a
knocking at my door. I certainly had forgotten to shut the door of my ante-
chamber, and so my visitor had managed to penetrate so far. Who could it be at
such a late hour? "Come in!" The blood flew to my head when the door opened.
_She_ had come back! Then she was here again! She did not come in, however, but
stood with the door-latch in her hand, as if she were afraid of me. "It is not
nice of me, I know," she stammered, with a faltering voice, "to come here so
late. I have been here three times, but you were out. I must tell you what I've
heard. Don't be angry." I begged her to come in, and took her by the hand. My
heart beat feverishly. "The lawyers received me very well. They were both at
home. They took up my case and assured me that it was bound to result in my
favour, and that they would pay the preliminary expenses. They behaved like
gentlemen. Then the conversation turned upon you. They asked how long we had
been acquainted. I told them as much as was necessary, and wound up by saying
that you were the one thoroughly disinterested friend that I possessed. Then one
of the advocates, the tall dry one I mean, said, with perfect good-nature:
'Well, if you are kindly disposed towards our young friend, just tell him that
_the path along which he is now rushing so impetuously leads straight to the
gallows_,' whereupon the blonde, ruddy-faced man added, '_or else to suicide._'
I felt I must tell you that." And with these words she stepped back from the
door. An icy shudder would have run down the shoulders of any other man at these
words, but the message regularly set _me_ on fire. It was my pet idea they
wanted me to give up, the idea which I adored even more than my lady-love, the
idea of my youth--the idea of liberty. If any one offends my lady-love I will
shed his blood, but let not even my lady-love interfere with my principles, as
for them I am ready to pour out my own blood to the last drop. "Be it so!" I
cried passionately; "that has nothing to do with you;" and I shut the door in
her face. Every fibre of my body quivered with rage. They threaten me with the
gallows, or with the suicidal dagger of a Cato! I fear them not. *       *
*       *       *

My poor chiefs! Half a year later they were rushing along the self-same path, at
the end of which so many monsters were lurking. I only lost my hair in the hands
of these monsters, but they lost their heads. Their own prophecy was fulfilled
on them both. From that day forth I was very wrath with the lady with the eyes
like the sea. CHAPTER IX

THE WOMAN WHO WENT ALONG WITH ME

And now we'll go back to the day which forms so remarkable a turning-point in
the life of the Hungarian nation, the 15th March, 1848. It did not come without
due preparation. The emancipation of the people, a free press and a free soil,
equality of taxation and equality before the law--all these splendid ideas had
been fought for during the last ten years by those great minds which towered
above their fellows. The time had now arrived, the process had been decided, the
judgment lived in the heart of every honest patriot. The great sacrifices which
the metamorphosis required were not demanded, but volunteered. We debated about
them in the Diet, party against party, with all the fervour of conviction. A
melancholy example was before us, which, like that _fata Morgana_ of the ocean,
the phantom galley overturned, warns the seaman of the danger that is hovering
over his head. I allude to the events in Galicia the year before. The Polish
gentry of Galicia demanded their liberties, and emphasized their demands by
force of arms. There was no need on the part of the authorities to set in motion
an army corps against this new confederacy, the peasantry did the work for them
instead. The Galician peasants[45] crushed the Polish gentry. The censorship had
prevented the Hungarian newspapers from making known the details of this
rebellion, but when the Diet met, it was impossible to prevent the fiery deputy
for Comorn, the youthful Denis Pazmandy, from raising his mighty voice on behalf
of the Poles, and making known the shocking particulars of the bloody massacre
to the Hungarian nation. There are many sad pages in the history of the Polish
nation, but none so sad as this. And the hand which wrote that page could easily
glide over to the next page also, and that next page was the history of the
Hungarian nation. Here half a million of gentry stand face to face with fifteen
millions of serfs which serve, suffer, pay, carry arms, and are silent. Then the
Paris Revolution broke out. The French nation overthrew the throne. (By the way,
a tatter from the canopy over the French throne was brought home by one of our
young writers, Louis Dóbsa, as a present for Petöfi. Dóbsa fought on the
February barricades.) Serious debates were held in the Hungarian Diet. But
Pressburg[46] was much too cold a field for such things. They wanted assistance
from Pest. We didn't say Buda-Pest then, Buda[47] was not ours.... Meanwhile the
Vienna Revolution broke out. The streets of Vienna resounded with the watchword
"Freedom," and were painted with the blood of the heroes that had fallen for it.
[Footnote 45: They were mostly Ruthenians, and racial and religious differences
had much to do with their antagonism. This inveigling of the peasantry against
the gentry, generally attributed to Metternich, is one of the darkest blots in
Austrian history.--TR.] [Footnote 46: The old coronation city of Hungary, but
more of a German than a Magyar city then.--TR.] [Footnote 47: It was an Austrian
fortress.--TR.] "_So these Vienna people whom we blackguard so much show that
they know how to shed their blood for freedom while we glorious Magyars sit at
our firesides!_" cried Petöfi bitterly. "Let us send no more petitions to the
Diet," he added, "it is deaf! Let us appeal to the nation: it will hear!" Then
he wrote his "Talpra Magyar! "[48]

[Footnote 48: "Up! Magyar, up!"] Early in the morning we assembled in my room by
lamplight. There were four of us--Petöfi, Paul Vasváry, Julius Bulyovszky, and
myself. My companions entrusted me with the drawing up of the Pest Articles in a
short popular form intelligible to everybody. While I was thus occupied, they
were disputing about what should happen next. The most violent of them was Paul
Vasváry, who had the figure of a mighty young athlete. In his hand was a sword-
stick with a horn handle, which he was flourishing about in a martial manner,
when, all at once, the jolted stiletto flew from its case, and turning a
somersault, flew through the air over my head and struck the wall. "A lucky
omen!" cried Petöfi. The proclamation was ready. We hastened into the street. We
said nothing to Madame Petöfi. Every one of us had arms of some sort. I pocketed
the famous duplex pistol already mentioned. Every one knows _ad nauseam_ what
followed--how the human avalanche began to move, how it grew, and what speeches
we made in the great square. But speech-making was not sufficient, we wanted to
_do_ something. The first thing to be done was to give practical application to
the doctrine of a free press. We resolved to print the Twelve Articles of Pest,
the Proclamation, and the "Talpra Magyar" without the consent of the censor. The
printing press of Landerer and Heckenast was honoured with this compulsory
distinction. The printers were naturally not justified in printing anything
without permission from the authorities, so we turned up our sleeves and worked
away at the hand-presses ourselves. The name of the typesetter who set up the
first word of freedom was _Potemkin_. While Irinyi and other young authors were
working away at the press, it was my duty to harangue the mob that thronged the
whole length of Hatváni Street. I had no idea how to set about it, but it came
of its own accord. My worthy and loyal contemporary, Paul Szontagh, occasionally
quotes to me, even now, some of the heaven-storming phrases which he heard me
say on that occasion; _e.g._, "... No! fellow-citizens; he is not the true hero
who can _die_ for his country; he who can _slay_ for his country, he is the true
hero!" That was the sort of oratory I used to practise in those days! Meanwhile
the rain began to fall, and rain is the most reactionary opponent of every
revolution. But my people were not to be dispersed by the rain, and all at once
the whole street was filled with expanded umbrellas. "What! gentlemen,"
thundered I from the corner of the street, "if you stick up your umbrellas now
against mere rain-drops, what will you stick up against the bullets which will
presently begin to fall?" It was only then that I noticed that there were not
only gentlemen around me but ladies also. A pair of them had insinuated
themselves close to my side. In one of them I recognised "Queen Gertrude. "[49]
On her head she wore a plumed cap, and was wrapped up in a Persian shawl
embroidered with palm-tree flowers. Both cap and shawl were dripping with rain.
I had met the lady once or twice at the Szigligetis'. I exhorted the ladies to
go home; here they would get dripping-wet, I said, and some other accident might
befall them. [Footnote 49: _i.e._, the actress who took that part.] "We are no
worse off here than you are," was the reply. They were determined to wait till
the printed broad-sides were ready. Not very long afterwards Irinyi appeared at
the window of the printing-office, for to get out of the door was a sheer
impossibility. He held in his hands the first printed sheets from the free
press. Ah, that scene! when the very first free sheets were distributed from
hand to hand! I cannot describe it. "Freedom, freedom!" It was the first ray of
a new and better era!... A free press! the first-fruit of the universal tree of
knowledge of Paradise. What a tumult arose when they actually clutched that
forbidden fruit in their hands.... Hail to thee, O Freedom of the Press! Thou
seven-headed dragon, how many times hast thou not bitten me since then! Yet I
bless the hour when I first saw thee creep out of thy egg and gave thee what
little help I could! Young authors, clerks, advocates, all hot-headed young
people, crowded around the invisible banner. A young county official was now
seen forcing his way through the dense crowd right to the very door of the
printing-office, and from thence he addressed me. The influential Vice-
Lieutenant of the County, Paul Nyáry, sent word to me that I was to go to him to
the town hall. "Why _should_ I go?" cried I from my point of vantage. "I'll be
shot down with cannon-balls rather! If the Vice-Lieutenant of the County wants
to speak to us, let him come here. We are the 'mountain' now." And Mohammed
really did come to the "mountain," and with him came a group of grave-faced men,
the veteran leaders of the camp of freedom. Amongst them was a dwarfish little
oddity of a man, the assistant editor of the _Eletképek_, the gallant little
Sükey, who, despite a chronic asthma, fought through the whole campaign, musket
in hand. Besides being a cripple, he was a really extraordinary stammerer. When
he saw the grave-visaged men making their way to us through the crowd, he
scrambled along beside them, and with all the force of his lungs bellowed out
this notable declaration: "D-d-d-don't li-li-li-listen to those wi-wi-wi-
wiseacres!" But the wiseacres hadn't come to convert us to wisdom. On the
contrary, Nyáry had come to approve of what we had done hitherto, and then to go
together with us to the town hall, that they might there, together with the town
councillors, ratify the Articles of the liberal programme. It was a fine scene.
The town hall was crammed to suffocation. Those who were called upon to speak
stood upon the green table, and remained there afterwards, so that at last the
whole magistracy of the county, and I and all my colleagues were standing on the
top of the table. The flames spread! The burgomaster, the worthy Rotterbiller,
announced from the balcony of the town hall, that the town of Pest had adopted
the Twelve Articles as its own; and with that the avalanche carried the whole of
the burgesses along with it. But the matter did not end even there. In the
evening crowds of workmen inundated the streets. They had got from somewhere or
other a banner, inscribed with the three sacred words, "Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity!" ... Such a great day must needs have a brilliant close, so the town
was illuminated in the evening, and a free performance was given at the theatre,
_Bánk-bán_[50] being the piece selected. But the mob, which by this time was in
a state of ecstasy, had no longer the patience to listen to the pious
declamations of Ban Peter. It called for "Talpra Magyar." [Footnote 50: Joseph
Katona's celebrated tragedy.] What was to be done? The brilliant court of King
Andrew II., with the Queen and Bánk-bán to boot, had to stand aside and form a
group round Gabriel Egressy, who, in a simple attila, with a sword by his side,
stood in the middle of the stage and declaimed with magnificent emphasis
Petöfi's inspiring poem. That was all very well, but it was not enough. Then the
whole company sang the "Szózato," and the people in the pit and the galleries
joined in. That also was soon over. What shall we give next? The band struck up
the Rákóczy[51] march. That kindled the excitement, instead of extinguishing it.
And it was high time that something should be done to quench it, for the excited
populace was drunk with triumph. [Footnote 51: Prohibited in Hungary at this
time as being of revolutionary tendency.] Then a voice from the gallery cried:
"Long live Táncsis! "[52]

[Footnote 52: Michal Táncsis, a prisoner who had been released from the citadel
of Buda the same morning by the mob.] And with that the whole populace suddenly
roared with one voice: "Let us see Táncsis!" A frightful tumult arose. Táncsis
was not at hand. He lived some way out in the suburb of Ferenczváros. But even
had he been near, it would have been a cruel thing to have dragged on the stage
a worn-out invalid, that he might merely bow to the public like a celebrated
musician. But what was to be done? "Well, my sons," said Nyáry, with whom I was
standing in the same box, "you have awakened this great monster, now see if you
can put him to sleep again!" My young friends attempted to address the people
one after the other, Petöfi from the Academy box, Irinyi from the balcony of the
Casino club, but their voices were drowned in the howling of the mob. The
curtain was let down, but then the tumult was worse than ever; the gallery
stamped like mad; it was a perfect pandemonium. Then a thought occurred to me. I
could get on to the stage from Nyáry's box; I rushed in through the side wings.
I cut a pretty figure I must say. I was splashed up to the knees with mud from
scouring the streets all day. I wore huge, dirty overshoes, my tall hat was
drenched, so that I could easily have made a crush-hat of it and carried it
under my arm. I looked around me and perceived Egressy. I told him to draw up
the curtain, I wanted to harangue the people from the stage. Then "Queen
Gertrude" came towards me. She smiled upon me with truly majestic grace, greeted
me and pressed my hand. No sign of fear was to be seen in her face. She was
wearing the tricoloured cockade[53] on her bosom, and, of her own accord, she
took it off and pinned it on my breast. Then the curtain was raised. [Footnote
53: Red, white, and green, the Hungarian colours.] When the mob beheld my
drenched and muddy figure, it began to shout afresh, and the uproar gradually
became a call for every one to hear me. When at last I was able to make my voice
heard, I came out with the following oratorical masterpiece: "Brother citizens!
our friend Táncsis is not here. He is at home in the bosom of his family. Allow
the poor blind man to taste the joy of _seeing_ his family once more!" It was
only then that I felt I was talking nonsense. How could a "_blind_ man" _see_
his family? If the mob began to laugh I should be done for! It was the
tricoloured ribbon that saved me. "Do you see," I cried, "this tricoloured
cockade on my breast? Let it be the badge of this glorious day! Let every man
who is Freedom's warrior wear it; it will distinguish us from the hireling host
of slavery! These three colours represent the three sacred words: Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity! Let every one in whom Hungarian blood and a free spirit
burns wear them on his breast." And so the thing was done. The tricoloured
cockade preserved order. Whoever wished to pin on the tricoloured cockade had to
hurry home first. Ten minutes later the theatre was empty, and next day the
tricoloured cockade was to be seen on every breast, from the paletots of the
members of the Casino[54] to the buckram of the populace, and those who went
about with mantles on wore the cockade in their hats. [Footnote 54: The Nobles'
club.] In the intoxication of my triumph I hastened after Rosa Laborfalvy as
soon as this scene was over, and pressed her hand. With that pressure of our
hands our engagement began. I have recorded the whole of this episode in order
to explain how it was that _that_ portrait found its way to my table, which was
able to convert in an instant the smiling face of the lady with the eyes like
the sea into the hideous features of Iblis. Four months had passed away since
then. And the honeymoon was in keeping with the engagement. The roar of cannon
and the clash of swords was the music that played at my wedding. Oh what a
marriage night was that! At the very moment when the happy bridegroom asks his
bride, "Dost thou love me as I love thee?" at that very moment there is the roll
of drums in the streets, and the cry goes forth, "To arms, citizens!" An Italian
regiment had revolted against the Hungarian Government. Without waiting for a
kiss or an embrace, I had to snatch up my musket and hurry off to the place of
meeting, and thence to go straight into fire among the flying bullets. We had to
storm the Károly Barracks. By dawn the mutinous regiment had to lay down its
weapons, and the bridegroom, with his face sooty with smoke, returned home, and
again put the question to his bride, "Dost thou love me as I love thee?" And the
answer? Ah! the heart alone can feel it, the lips cannot express it. That was
our honeymoon. With the shame of lost battles in our hearts, and despairing even
of divine justice, those who can love under such circumstances must love dearly
indeed! And then out into the desolate world, in the midst of a Siberian winter,
with everything crackling with cold in a night lit only by the blaze of
artillery, forcing one's way along through the snowy deserts of the Alföld[55]
with the retreating Honved[56] army! Passing the night in an inhospitable hut
where the closed door had frozen to the ground by morning, and the roll of drums
and the blare of trumpets aroused us to toil on still farther! Those who can
love under such circumstances must love indeed! [Footnote 55: The low-land. The
name given to the great Hungarian plain.] [Footnote 56: Defending the country.
The title of the Hungarian national forces.] My wife went everywhere with me.
She quitted a comfortable home, sacrificed a fortune, a brilliant career, to
endure hunger, cold, and hardship with me. And I never heard her utter one word
of complaint. When I was downhearted, she comforted me. And when all _my_ hopes
were stifled, she shared _her_ hopes with me. At the new seat of the Hungarian
Government, Debreczin, we were huddled together in a tiny little room, compared
with which the hut of Peter Gyuricza was a palace from the _Thousand-and-one
Nights_. And my queen worked like a slave, like the wife of a Siberian convict.
She worked not for a joke, not in sheer defiance; she did not _play the part_ of
a peasant girl, she was a serving-woman in grim earnest. The hazard of the die
of war changed. We advanced. We marched in triumph from one battle-field to
another. I was present at the storming of the citadel of Buda. Even in those
awful days she never left me, when every night the sky seemed about to plunge
down upon our heads. The brilliant days of triumph were again succeeded by
misfortune. The Northern ogre[57] threw all his legions upon us. Again we had to
fly, to leave our happy hut, and continue our marriage tour through desolate
wildernesses, where savage hordes had devastated whole villages. Our night's
lodging was four bare sooty walls, our couch a bundle of charred straw. Hated by
strangers, feared by acquaintances, we were a terror to the people from whom we
begged a shelter. [Footnote 57: Pastliewich, by command of the Tzar, invaded
Hungary in 1849, with 100,000 men.] The chaos of war finally parted us. I
insisted that she should remain away from me. I could not endure to see her
suffering any longer. It was not right that I should accept such sacrifices. I
bade her leave me to meet my fate alone. After the catastrophe of Vilagós[58] my
life was ended. That mighty giant, the famous Hungary of our dreams, collapsed
into atoms: her great men became grains of dust. [Footnote 58: When the
Hungarian Commander-in-chief finally capitulated to the Russians.] I also became
a nameless, weightless, aimless grain of dust. The end of all things had
arrived. The prophecy of the lady with the eyes like the sea lay literally
fulfilled before me. Either the gibbet or suicide was to be my fate. I was
twenty-four years of age, and a dead man. My former chief, the brave Catonian,
Joseph Molnar, the president of the national court martial, had set me the
example. He lay before me on the sward of Vilagós, slain by his own hand. The
last hussar breaking his sword was a spectacle he could not bear to survive.
Then it was that a burning hand seized my hand. It was hers, the hand of the
woman who loved me. When all was lost, her love was not lost. She came after me.
She took me with her. She set me free. When all Hungary was already subdued,
there was still one corner in our native land where the hand of authority never
came. She discovered that corner, and led me thither with her through every
hostile camp. That was "the woman who went along with me." CHAPTER X

WHERE THE WORLD IS WALLED UP

It required quite a strategical combination to transport me from the town of
Vilagós to where the world is boarded up. This place was selected for me by my
wife while she was already in Pest, whence on the approach of the catastrophe
she set out from home on a peasant's car to seek me up and down the kingdom. For
a time she travelled with the wife of Alexander Körösy, who set her on my track.
At the storming of Szegedin we were all within an ace of being blown into the
air by the explosion of a powder magazine. It was a little village called
Tordona, deep in the beech forests of Borsod, the name of which was not even to
be found on the chart of Francis Karacs. [59] Here the celebrated comedian and
scene-painter of the National Theatre, Telepi, had built a house with the
intention of seeking an asylum there with his family in troublous times. When
the Russians came, he sent thither his wife and his son Charles, who was then a
young artist student. Telepi gave my wife this sage piece of advice. "When the
bottom of the world falls out, take your husband where nobody will find him."
Tordona had taken no part in the Revolution.... The journey was quite an
Odyssey. In a small covered peasant's car a lady conveys water-melons to market;
the coachman and the footman sit in front together. The footman is myself, the
coachman János Rákóczy, who only the day before was Kossuth's secretary. The
price of water-melons was a silver _tizes_[60] a-piece. Our heads were not worth
so much as that. The way from Vilagós to Bekes-Gyula is long, and the whole way
we were going straight towards the advancing Russian host. Cossacks, lancers,
infantry, artillery, gun-carriages, met us at every step, and yet nobody asked
us the price of those melons or the price of those heads. It was only the two
splendid horses in front of our car which might have raised suspicions that we
were not itinerant market-gardeners, although Rákóczy wore the genuine blue
livery of a coachman. When we got into the domain of swamp and rushes, a mounted
_betyár_[61] took us under his protection, and guarded us along paths where a
carriage had never yet gone, where our horses repeatedly waded up to their
breasts in water, till we fought our way through into the endless plain. He
would take nothing from us but a "God bless you!" [Footnote 59: The first
Hungarian engraver (1769-1838). His celebrated map of Hungary was first
published in 1813.] [Footnote 60: The tenth of a florin.] [Footnote 61: A
peasant drover.] Our dear friend János Rákóczy, as an old country gentleman, was
a capital coachman so long as he had only to guide the horses, but that part of
the stableman's science which deals with harnessing and unharnessing he had
never learnt. So when we came to a place in the sweltering heat of the dog-days
after a long drive through the vast plain, the very first thing he did was to
let the unharnessed horses immediately drink their fill at the spring, and then
tie them up in the stable, in consequence of which the shaft horse caught
inflammation of the lungs, and expired an hour afterwards. The saddle horse
survived as by a miracle. Instead of the deceased horse, therefore, we had to
harness another nag, which we picked up on the road for 100 florins. This new
horse was a hand and a half smaller than the steed that still remained with us.
With this slap-dash team nobody would have taken us any longer for gentry. We
had still to pass through Miskolcz, where the Russians were encamping. Here
dwelt my wife's father, the wise and worthy professor Benke Laborfalvy. He
pointed out to us the road which led into Tordona. Five hours long we penetrated
through dense forests: not a human dwelling place, not a beaten tract was to be
seen. A stream cut through the winding valley and along its bank, shifting now
to the right hand and now to the left, a sort of path wound its way naturally,
without anything like a bridge; for the convenience of foot passengers, huge
stones at irregular intervals had been cast into the bed of the racing stream.
There, in a deeply hidden, delightful valley, lay the little spot which is
walled off from the world. My wife and I descended at the Telepi's house and
were heartily welcomed by our worthy hostess. Rákóczy, with his equipage, had to
be lodged in another house. Madame Telepi's brother, my tenderly remembered good
friend, the worthy Béni Csányi, dwelt in a house a little farther off. It was he
who stabled the horses. Later on I joined him. He was really a model of a "small
country gentleman," such as they ought to be nowadays. An accomplished,
intelligent man, speaking, besides his own language, Latin and German, with a
thorough knowledge of the law, for which he had been trained, and who, for all
that, now went out and ploughed his own land with the aid of a man-servant. He
ate his home-made bread, drank his home-brewed wine, welcomed guests with all
his heart, and slew a sheep or a pig in their honour. His wife baked and brewed,
led the way at the spindle, and sewed her children's clothes with her own hand.
They had three sons, and the little money that flowed into the domestic coffers
was spent in the schooling of the children. Csányi never borrows, and owes no
man anything. His work-room is a joiner and wheelwright's shed; when anything
breaks in the wagon he mends it himself: it is his pet pastime. He has a library
also, full of such books as Sir Walter Scott's historical work on the French
Revolutionary Wars. Newspapers he never reads. If, again, a poem pleases him, he
learns it by heart, and passes it on further by word of mouth. He never goes to
law with his neighbour, and when two fall out he makes peace between them. But
when the cry goes forth, "The fatherland is in danger! Let us make sacrifices
for the commonweal!" then he cuts the large silver buttons off his mantle, and
lays them on the altar of his country. I owe it for the most part to this worthy
man that I did not lose my reason altogether in these hard times. Thus we
arrived hither. I was saved. I was no longer a dead man. I lived. But what sort
of a life was it? It was the sort of life which belongs to a new-born babe:
absolute inability to help one's self. Rákóczy quitted us on the following day.
He was off to the Carpathians. There he took service as coachman (naturally
under an assumed name) in the family of a wealthy territorial Count. They were
more than contented with him, for he was an excellent and honest coachman. But
one day a strange misadventure befell him. He was taking the Count and his
brother-in-law out for a drive, when the gentleman began talking of the era of
Louis XIV., and one of them could not call to mind the name of a celebrated
statesman of those days. Then the coachman could not help turning round towards
them, and saying, "Colbert!" The Counts immediately dismounted from the coach
and went home on foot. The learned coachman, however, was discharged. It is not
good to sleep under the same roof with a coachman who knows so much. My wife and
I agreed that _she_ should return to Pest and resume her engagement at the
National Theatre there till I should get back my patrimony. Then we would
purchase a little property in the depths of the beech forest, close to Béni
Csányi, and plough and sow to the end of our days. What else _could_ we do? Our
country, our nation, our liberty were now no more. Our souls had no wings. We
stuck fast in the mire. On the very anniversary of our wedding, which was my
wife's birthday as well, we parted. Our wedding tour had lasted exactly a year.
I wish nobody such another, but I would not exchange all the joys in the world
for the recollection of it. I remained behind in a vast primeval forest,
entombed, forgotten. The latest rumours I got from worthy Béni Csányi, who had
taken my wife to Pest, driving his four horses himself all the way from his
stable door to the capital. They were evil times there. Haynau had appropriated
even the National Theatre for the German players. But the director, worthy János
Simoncsics, formerly a Conservative celebrity, protested against the proceedings
of the high-handed tyrant, and when Haynau began to haggle with the stiff-necked
old magistrate as to how many days a week he would allow the German players to
act in the Hungarian National Theatre, brave old Simoncsics replied in his own
peculiar Buda-German: "Wen i reden _musz_, so sag i: amol; wen i reden _darf_,
so sag i: komol. "[62] And "komol"[63] it remained. [Footnote 62: If I _must_
speak: once; if I _may_ speak: not at all.] [Footnote 63: Not once.] My wife
counselled me not to write to her through the post-office, as the whole town was
full of spies. When she wrote to me she would send the letter to her father at
Miskolcz, directed to Judith Benke. Even now I often draw out those _love-
letters_ which were written to me and began "My dear Juczi. "[64] Even now they
light up that endless darkness which I call the _cancelled_ portion of my life.
[Footnote 64: Contraction for Judith.] From August to the middle of October I
knew absolutely nothing of what was going on in the world. It was a corner of
the earth where no visitor ever came, and where the inhabitants themselves went
nowhere. Now that winter was approaching, there would be a sledge drive, and
communications would be opened up between Tordona and Miskolcz. Then one would
be able to convey timber into the town. Of timber there was no lack. Csányi had
four hundred acres of virgin forest to forty acres of arable land. Day after day
I rambled up and down these forests that had never heard the voice of man. Never
did I meet a fellow creature. However many heights I might ascend, I saw from
thence nothing but the smoking chimneys of Tordona. I discovered the source of
the stream that sped through the valley. "Linden-spring" was the name they gave
it. It was entirely circled by lindens. I hit upon the childish sport of cutting
a water-mill out of elder-tree wood, piecing it together, and placing it across
the little stream. Thus I amused myself. One day I received a box of water-
colours from my wife. I was immensely delighted. I now had something to occupy
myself with all day. I filled a whole album with my landscapes. Then I painted
that journey through the plain with a horse and a half in the covered car. I
painted my own portrait on a piece of paper no bigger than a finger-nail, which
could be inserted in a medallion. I sent it to my wife. Béni Csányi's wife asked
me to paint her a portrait of her "old man" also. She wanted it about the size
of a kidney bean; she had a medallion just as large as that. This was my only
work in that terrible year. CHAPTER XI

VALENTINE BÁLVÁNYOSSI AND TIHAMÉR RENGETEGI

When the beech-mast began to fall from the trees in the beginning of October,
unexpected guests came to us at Tordona--two country gentlemen from the
beechwood district. They were kinsmen keeping house together, whose whole estate
consisted of forest, and whose whole economy was an enormous herd of swine. They
were both jolly thick-set men, with fur pelisses of nicely embroidered
sheepskins, and boots of red Russian leather. They had come to rent the beech-
mast district in the Tordona forests. Pig just then was an article not quoted in
the market. Hungarian money there was none. It had all been destroyed. German
money had not yet been introduced. Pig-rearers were therefore obliged to let
their herds go into winter quarters. The pigs in question were really fine
fellows of the good old Szalonta breed, with legs as long as stags', red
bristles and pointed ears; they were half-savage beasts, too, who faced the wolf
instead of fleeing from him. They develop but slowly, however; only after two
years' time do they become as large as the Mangalicza swine. But they more than
atone for this fault by the good quality of wanting neither stall nor sty;
winter and summer alike they camp out in the woods and seek their own food, thus
costing their masters no more than two florins a head, and three pints of
_palinka_,[65] which is the perquisite of the swine-herd. Each of these kinsmen
had a thousand of such pigs. [Footnote 65: Hungarian brandy.] And a thousand
pigs give a man a lot to think about. They were good, genial fellows. In fact,
they knew not what melancholy meant. It was now the season when the new wine was
beginning to ferment. The two kinsmen used to drink it in that state, and I
joined them. It went very well with well-peppered swine stew. They brought a new
song with them also, and I learnt it. "The milk-pail stood behind the door,
The Gendarme came, flopped in and swore! Dárum-madárum, dárum-madárum!" From
this song I gathered that there was now a being in the world called
Gendarme,[66] and also that the Magyars had no very great affection for him.
[Footnote 66: _Zsandar._ The name as well as the thing was quite new to Hungary.
--TR.] It was only after supper that the guests began to give me to understand
that they did not yet know "whom they had the honour of addressing." My worthy
host constrained his honest features, and introduced me under the pseudonym by
which I was known in the village, "Mr. Albert Benke." "Surely not the actress
Rosa Laborfalvy's younger brother, Bebus?" "Yes, Bebus! the very same." (That
might pass very well. Poor Bebus! he had perished in some out-of-the-way corner
during the war.) "Why, I knew him quite well! I have a lively recollection of
his features. Why, 'tis Bebus, of course! And how's your sister? Is it true that
she's married?" "So I have heard." "To a certain Maurus Jókai, eh? Do you know
him?" "I have never spoken to him." (And this was quite true.) "You were one of
those theatre-fellows, too, I understand?" "Yes, I was an actor, certainly." "I
saw you once at Miskolcz. What were you playing then?" "Claude Frolló in the
_Tower of Notre Dame_." "And won't you join some other company now?" "I don't
know whether there is one to be found." "What! There is a troupe all ready at
Miskolcz at the present moment. They mean to play at the new theatre during the
coming winter, and then they are going to Kassa. Bálványossi wants to put new
blood into his company. You know the director, Valentine Bálványossi, don't
you?" I was just on the point of blurting out that he was from the same
birthplace as myself. He was, in fact, the person who had coached Bessy in the
_rôle_ which she had to play with me in our second dramatic entertainment. All I
_did_ say, however, was that I knew him by report. "Anyhow, he knows you very
well. He asks frequently about you. If he only knew that you were loafing about
here he would certainly come and see you." It only needed that! "I was not aware
that he was able to collect together another troupe." "Oh dear, yes! Why, he's
got a prima donna now. She is his wife also. Such a bonny little bride! She'll
turn the heads of all the young fellows, I know. But you're in hiding here, are
you not?" "In hiding?" "Yes, and I tell you what--_entre nous_, of course--
Bálványossi also has reason to make himself scarce." "Why?" "Why, because he
played such a great part in the Revolution." "_I_ never heard anything about
it." "Ah! but he might have been a famous man without _your_ hearing anything
about it. You also were a comedian during the Revolution, weren't you?" I
allowed him to suppose so. Then the second kinsman took up his parable. He was
better informed than the first one. "Let me make things clear to you, _amice_!
During the Revolution, the theatre director, Valentine Bálványossi, acted under
the name of Tihamér Rengetegi." "Ah! yes, of course, I remember the name." "Many
a nut has he cracked beneath the very noses of the Germans." The other kinsman
confirmed the statement. "If they can only catch him they'll make the wind cool
his heels for him." "But that theatre director is really a most knowing rogue,"
explained the younger kinsman, with a laugh. "During the Revolution, he entered
the service of the Hungarian Government and rose to be major. They say he
performed prodigies. But at the same time he took the precaution to completely
alter his personal appearance. During the Revolution he dyed his beautiful fair
hair a deep black, and carefully fostered a gigantic moustache with whiskers to
correspond; in that guise he looked exactly like Don Cæsar de Bazan. When,
however, things began to go wrong, he speedily had his hair shaved off and his
beard also, and is now waiting in retirement till his original fair hair has
grown again. Then he will once more come before the world as Valentine
Bálványossi; and who will dare to say that there was ever such a person as
Tihamér Rengetegi?" One really must admit that it was a stroke of genius to
serve the Revolution with a black-dyed head of hair! "When he hears that you are
strolling about here he will most certainly come and engage you." It was
necessary to put a stop to this forthwith. "I regret that I shall not remain
here very long," I said; "I, too, have to go up to Pest." "And what is your
business at Pest?" "I want to look out for some appointment." At this, both the
pig-Crœsuses pulled a very wry face. Whoever went to Pest in those days to seek
an appointment was looked upon with suspicion. It was as well to have as little
as possible to do with such a person. [67]

[Footnote 67: It was a point of honour with every loyal Hungarian to starve
rather than to accept any appointment whatsoever from the Austrian Government.--
TR.] Henceforth the pair of them treated me very superciliously. I, however,
continued to go about and paint landscapes in the vast beech forests. I have
those pictures by me still. What splendid _motives_ I had; if only the hand of a
true artist had been there to seize them! In the midst of the gloomy virgin
forest lay the ruin of a Paulinian cloister--gigantic Gothic walls of grey
granite; on the friezes of the pillars winged angel-heads; the pointed arches
terminated in flowers, and these stone-flowers were supplemented by the living
stone-rose, which grew luxuriantly between the mouldings. Behind the vast blue-
shadowed ruin lay the dark beech forest; in front was a spring, which, in
wondrous wise, bubbled forth from the roots of a huge prostrate linden. From the
summit of the ruin depended a large and ample hazel-nut tree, the foliage of
which was now a reddish-brown from the autumn frost, while from the windows the
dark-green chaplets of the wild-rose tree hung down in the midst of cornel-
shrubs and spindle-plants variegated with scarlet, pink, and vermilion berries.
And the floor of the ruin is covered with a tangled carpet of brownish-green
angelica. And there is but one single living figure in this vast and silent
tableau. From the gloom of the ancient church porch a timidly glancing stag
peeps forth like the mythical guiding-star of the Hunnic-Magyar pagan legends.
Alas! thou white-antlered hind of our ancient leader Almos, whither hast thou
led us? Would that thou hadst left us in Asia! There, at any rate, we should not
have been obliged to learn German! And then that other picture, the mighty stone
of the Holy Ghost. This was a rock as large as a tower, which rose from the edge
of the table-land. Close beside it were two gigantic beech-trees, whose summits
just reached up to the middle of this rock, and Autumn, that great decorative
artist, had touched the leaves of one with reddish-brown, and the other with
golden-yellow. On the very top of this rock are three trees rich with verdure:
how did they ever get up there? It is possible to scramble up at the risk of
one's neck, and from thence one can see fresh pictures to paint. From the dizzy
height of the rock a view into a deep valley opens out. The two lines of hill
opposite are closed up by a curved and undulating range of other hills. The
setting sun lights up the hillside, and bathes the whole scene in transparent
lilac mist, while the forest fringe of the summits projects in sharply defined
golden lines. Down below, the valley winds along like a dark-green ribbon, and
on the spot where it is lost in the evening mist is to be seen a little hut
whose kitchen fire twinkles from the depths like a blood-red star. Can any human
creature be living there? But the most magnificent landscape-motive (in which I
was happily immersed) was the panorama which presented itself from the
"Precipice Stone." This "Precipice Stone" was the highest point of the beech
mountain-district. Viewed from Tordona, it was like a projecting mountain-spar,
but one could get to the top of it by making a long circuit. This rock was
generally the goal of my wanderings. It took half a day to get there and half a
day to get back, and at midday I used to kindle a fire of twigs and make a
princely banquet of toasted bread and bacon; and then, sitting down on the dizzy
edge of the rock, I would tackle the impossible artistic problem--at least it
was impossible to me. Beneath my feet, in the foreground, was a dark spot formed
by a crown of beech-trees, and where this ended there was a smiling little nook,
and in the midst of it tiny, smoky, stony Tordona, with its scattered cottages,
surrounded by their yellow dice-like vineyards, and their hills striped with
green corn, above which the still darker green beech hills show their heads.
Above these crowds the group of the Gömöri Hills, whose shadows are now
deepening into lilac; but these again are dominated by the chain of the
Trencséni and Turoczi Hills. These hills are of a clouded blue, and above them
rises, like a _fata Morgana_, the princely range of the fair Carpathians, as
blue as heaven itself, and only to be distinguished from it by the dividing line
of their diamond-like snowy peaks. My skill was, naturally, not equal to such a
task. If I succumbed when I struggled with it, that was not my fault. With a
mighty lead-loaded oaken staff in my hand, and a sharp kitchen-knife in my roomy
jack-boots, I deemed myself sufficient to cope with any wolf I might meet on the
way. As for a musket, those who had them took good care to keep them well
hidden. Rumour said that to be found with a musket was as much as a man's life
was worth. The middle of October had come. Another guest now arrived at Tordona.
This time it was a heartily welcome guest, the merry-minded Telepi. He had come
to fetch his little Charlie that he might take him abroad for his education. He
was the favourite comic actor of the National Theatre.... He had a round face, a
round figure, and was all vivacity, with sparkling eyes, pointed eyebrows, and
tiny pointed moustache; it was just as if he had four eyebrows and four
moustaches: he was Hungarian humour personified. 'Twas he who brought me my
first news from the outside world: the horrible events of the October days, the
inconceivable deeds of horror done by a madman,[68] who was not even
sufficiently punished by being burned alive twice. [Footnote 68: Haynau.--An
allusion to the massacre of Hungarian prisoners and the brutalities inflicted on
their wives.--TR.] Fortunately, I heard these things from a joking, smiling,
devil-may-care, comic mouth! For Telepi knew how to season the tidings with so
many happy anecdotes and comforting assurances that he quite turned the edge off
the murderous knife. And then he was so full of optimism. "Our time is coming,"
he would say. "England and France are hastening to our assistance. The Turks are
arming, the Americans are showing their fists." And when I shook my head at all
this, he comforted me with the assurance that an amnesty was at hand. But when
we were quite alone, and nobody else was listening, then he told me everything
frankly, and without embellishment. My wife would have come herself, but she had
been ailing; in fact she had been very ill. She was better now. As soon as she
could leave her bed she would hasten to me at Tordona. I might expect her this
very month. My wife had a plan whereby she hoped to free me completely, so that
I should not be exposed to persecution any more. What it was, however, she could
not tell me. She only begged _one_ thing of me, but _that_ she begged most
earnestly, and it was this: until she came to me I was to show myself nowhere,
hold no communication with anybody, let nothing be known of my whereabouts. I
was not even to write a letter, for they might recognise my handwriting, and
then all would be over. So I had to solemnly promise that I would go nowhere,
and speak to nobody whatever but the good and honest men of Tordona. I gave my
word upon it. My wife sent me at the same time a warm winter overcoat, a large
fur cap, and a pair of double-soled Russia-leather boots. Winter was
approaching, and I should have to spend it here among the forests. Telepi also
brought me a little silver money from my wife, for bank-notes were of no use
here. She also sent me some coffee. That, too, was not to be had here, and I am
fond of it in the morning. In the course of the conversation, Telepi
inadvertently let out that my wife had sold her emeralds, had gone into pokey
lodgings, and was living very sparingly. "But what's the good of fretting?" he
added. "The God of the Magyars is still alive!" I shall never forget that
jocose, smiling face, when, in the midst of his magnanimous assurances, a tear
suddenly rolled down his round, red countenance! Then I gave all the pictures I
had painted hitherto to Telepi, that he might take them home to my wife. CHAPTER
XII

THE MEETING AT THE PAGAN ALTAR

After Telepi had gone back, a deep melancholy took possession of me. My wife was
ill, and I had never even dreamt of the possibility of such a thing. What if she
were to die without being able to exchange a last adieu? She wants to set me
free, she says; but how? She cannot tell me. She cannot tell anybody. Why should
she have any secrets from me? Ah! that green-eyed monster is a bad guide to the
imagination. A celebrated actress can so readily find protectors. Perhaps they
are men in authority, who hold life and death in their hands. Oh, eternal
darkness, do not deprive me of the light of my reason! Suppose I were to gain
readmittance into the world at such a price as that! This condition of mind was
becoming absolutely unendurable. Sometimes the desire seized me to rush out of
the forest, knock at the door of the first Commandant I came to, and give up my
name: "I am that notorious rebel--take my head, I'll pay the price!" But my
given word, my word of honour, held me back. Ah! a man's word of honour must be
kept, even though it be only given to his wife. I had promised to go nowhere.
But surely the forest is nowhere, and that Precipice Stone is, indeed, the most
out-of-the-way nowhere in the whole world. Thither no man ever goes. Thither at
least I am free to go. My first, not very successful, picture of the great
panorama I had sent to my wife. I would now have another try at it. One fine
autumn morning I again took up my lead-loaded stick, and said to my dear good
hostess that she was not to expect me home to dinner that day, as I was going to
scramble up to the Pagan Altar and sketch there. The gentry call this rocky
pinnacle the Pagan Altar; the peasants call it the Precipice Stone. "But don't
stay long," said Mrs. Csányi; "suppose your dearest were to arrive in the
meantime?" My dearest! As if she thought of seeking me out! They only put me off
with promises, just as they tell a sick child that he shall have a rocking-horse
when he gets well. It was exactly seven weeks since she had left me. What an
endless time! I made my way at once towards the linden spring, and thence up the
forest hill-side by the often-trodden familiar path. The nuts came showering
down; the frost had already tweaked the Cornelian cherries. I crammed my
knapsack full of both: I shall have a luxurious banquet to-day. I also found a
large coral-coloured mushroom; roasted in embers, it would make a tit-bit worthy
of a gourmet. It was about ten o'clock when I got up to the Pagan Altar. When I
went out upon the rocky ledge, a truly wondrous scene spread itself out before
me; it was quite certain that _I_ should never be able to paint it. The whole
kingdom was under the sea! The autumn mist, like a snow-cloud, covered the whole
landscape to the very horizon, from which towered vast snowy peaks and snowy
cupolas; in other places the misty mantle resembled frozen waves, out of which
here and there rose round, blackish islands, the peaks of the higher mountains.
It was a faithful image of reality: nothingness. There was nothing left now. I
could calculate pretty surely on the mist descending at midday, and painting
field and forest with frost; but till then I could sketch nothing. So I lay down
upon the rocky ledge, and marvelled at this motionless, huge, white winding-
sheet which covered a whole realm. I had no thought of eating now. I hung up my
knapsack with my bread and bacon on a spruce-fir tree, and when I had looked my
fill of wonder at the sea of mist, I watched the itinerant ants who, following
their regular road, crept right over my body, never troubling themselves very
much about the circumstance that a giant, like a mountain range, lay right
across their path. At this height not even the thrush's whistle broke the
stillness. The sun shone down. Not a breeze was stirring. My head was resting on
a large green mossy stone; I felt like dropping off to sleep. All at once, as if
I really were dreaming, from somewhere not very far off a song rang out:--

"Lo! on the mountain top       A valiant man doth stand,     And on his trusty
weapon rests       His stalwart good right hand." It was a man's voice, and I
seemed to recognise it. My first feeling was joy. I was about to meet some old
acquaintance in that vast wilderness. It only occurred to me afterwards that
this would be contrary to my compact. I was to meet no man who could possibly
recognise me. But it was too late to avoid him now. Only one single path led up
to the summit of the Precipice Stone, whether one came from Tordona or from
Malyinka, and my songster was evidently coming from the latter place. The next
verse of the song sounded very much nearer:--

"Lo! on his _kalpag_[69] see       A blood-red nodding plume;     A mantle black
surrounds his neck,       His wild eye lowers with gloom." [Footnote 69: The
tall fur hat, generally plumed, which     forms part of the Hungarian national
costume.] And now I heard a woman's voice also. Some one was telling the singer
not to sing while climbing. So there was a pair of them! And as the singer
gradually mounted higher and higher, his figure also became visible from behind
the rocky ledge. "Presumptuous mortal, quake and fear     When thou his awful
name dost hear:         Diavolo, Diavolo, Diavolo!" Yet nobody quaked so much as
Fra Diavolo himself, when he perceived a human shape stretched before him on the
ground as he scaled the very summit of the rocky ledge. And certainly I was not
a very reassuring spectacle, as, with my sheepskin cap pressed closely to my
head, and a large cudgel in my fist, I slowly rose from my knees. I recognised
him before he recognised me. "Your servant, Bálványossi! Why, how did you manage
to get here, where not even the bird that flies can come?" Then his terror was
turned into joy. "Ah, ha! my poet-friend! What a divine encounter here in Heaven
above!" With that he hastened up to me and we embraced. By this time his lady
companion had also got the better of the rocky zig-zag which led up to the
mountain ledge. It was now the turn of my own heart to stop beating. That female
shape was Bessy--the sea-eyed beauty! How came they two to be together? How came
they to be both here at the same time? But it was no vision. The fair lady
recognised me instantly. Her face, red already from her mountain scramble, could
be no redder at the sight of me, nor could her bosom heave more than it was
heaving now; but on her face there was a sort of holding-back expression. Friend
Valentine perceived the look of amazed inquiry on my face, and turning with true
histrionic humour towards his lady-companion, introduced her to me with the
words, "My grandmother!" At this witticism the lady laughed, and I had
sufficient self-control not to reply to this introduction with a single word.
"Then come to my bosom, my son, for I am thy grandfather." "It is very strange
we should meet here," I put in. But my friend's features suddenly darkened as if
he were obeying a stage direction like, "here he suddenly assumes a grave face."
"First of all, my dear friend," said he, "I demand your word of honour not to
reveal to any one in the created world that you have seen me. You know that I am
now Tihamér Rengetegi till the old blonde hair grow again (what I'm wearing now
is a wig); for a heavy price is fixed upon my head. A word, and I am lost. Your
_parole_ that you'll say nothing about me?" "The promise must be mutual, then,"
I replied. "I just as solemnly require you to say not a word to anybody about
me, for I also am in hiding here." At this he began to laugh. It was a stage
laugh, for he placed his hand on his stomach, crooked his back, and turned upon
his heel, choking with laughter. "And you also are hiding away here from the
Germans! Well, that _is_ a joke!" I inquired somewhat brusquely what there was
to laugh at. "Why, at your hiding--hiding away from the Imperialists. You, of
all people! Why, don't you know, then, that very many deputies defended
themselves before the court-martials by declaring themselves former contributors
to your _Esti Lap_? [70] Why, every one knows that you were the organ of the
peace party at Debreczin. Every one is well aware that you were the ally of the
Imperialists." [Footnote 70: _Evening News_.] At this I at once flew into a
rage. "Have you ever seen the _Esti Lap_?" "No, I've not actually _seen_ it, but
it was the general opinion among us soldiers that you were higgling with the
Imperialists." At this Bessy intervened by giving a good tug at her friend's
collar. "Rubbish! Such rumours are only circulated by pot-house heroes like
yourself. He certainly was no traitor! Would that all who open their mouths so
loudly were as good patriots?" My friend, with sheepish obsequiousness, hastened
to readjust his opinion to the satisfaction of his "grandmother." "Good, good! I
never believed a word of it myself--why should I?" said he. "The best proof that
I am not what calumny would make me is the fact of my meeting you here at the
Pagan Altar; and again I beg of you to tell nobody that we have met." Here Bessy
again intervened. "I'll answer for that. I shall now be constantly at the side
of this honest gentleman, and if his tongue begins to wag, my hand will be ready
to stop it for him." Mr. Valentine laughed. "What a woman it is! She really has
a most rapid hand. Not a day passes but she lets me feel the weight of her
palm." At this I made a very critical face. My good friend could read very well
from it that I wished to know by what right his cheeks were allowed to feel the
force of Bessy's rosy palms day by day. "We met together in camp, and the field-
chaplain blessed our union to the roaring of guns and the beating of drums."
That was right enough, surely! Bessy's eyes were raised towards me as if she
could add a great deal to this short history. Friend Valentine thought it good
to become loudly enthusiastic. "What a woman, my friend! A heroine! A perfect
Jeanne d'Arc! We were bound together by a whole chain of wonders and exploits.
She was not my consort--nay! she was much more, my companion in arms. I'll tell
you the whole thing one of these days." "That will do...."

"What? That will do? Are you, then, so poor-spirited? _I_ am ready to meet the
spectres of the darkness face to face. I'll set in motion the avalanche which
shall wrench the world from its hinges." I left him to set his avalanche in
motion while I went to gather dry twigs and leaves and make a heap of them.
Meanwhile Valentine declaimed to the clouds. "What a spectacle! The whole realm
a sea! We stand alone, like the co-operating Demiurges at the creation, in the
face of chaos." "Have you got your troupe together?" I inquired, thus bringing
him down at once from his pedestal. "My troupe? That's just what I am going
about now. Brutus must play the fool until his day has come. But when once the
hour of retribution arrives, we will rise as one man and win back our outraged
liberties." "With my bludgeon, I suppose?" "Oh, not with that sort of thing,"
said friend Valentine, with haughty condescension. "I have no secret to hide
from you. An American hero of freedom has invented a weapon which, placed in the
hand of a simple citizen, will give him an irresistible advantage over the
hireling soldiery. Its English name is 'revolver.' I have one by me. Thanks to
my acquaintances beyond the ocean, I have managed to provide myself with it.
Look here!" With that he produced from his side pocket a pistol, the like of
which I had never seen before. It was the Colt revolver, for discharging five
shots. You loaded it in front, and with this object in view, you had to shove
out the cartridge cylinder and sprinkle powder out of the powder-flask in every
loop-hole; at the end of the bullet was a nail, which had to be made firm with a
cork-stopper, then the bullet had to be driven into the barrel by means of a
hammer and ramrod, then the cartridge cylinder had to be fastened down again
into its place, and pyramids of priming powder piled on the top of it--while the
enemy was supposed to be looking on all the time and watching good-naturedly to
see what would come of it all. Friend Valentine had immense confidence in his
wondrous firearm. "You can see that I am prepared for every conceivable
emergency. My faith, I will sell my life dearly! I may tell _you_, for you will
not betray me. Beneath this Pagan Altar is a cave, the existence of which is
known only to the initiated. I have selected it for my hiding-place. When the
chase against me begins, and a whole brigade of gendarmes marches out to seize
me, I will creep into this cave; victuals and brandy for a whole week are
already there for me; let them riot round me then as they like." I could not
help laughing at these wise precautions. But friend Valentine's explanations
became still more fiery. "My friend! a single narrow little path leads to this
cave. The bears used possibly to resort thither in the days when bears camped in
the beech districts. If they attempt to storm me there, I can defend myself with
this revolver against a whole host." All this time I had been employed in piling
up a nice little heap of dry twigs and leaves, which I now set on fire with my
flint and steel. Friend Valentine caught me nervously by the hand. "What are you
doing, my friend?" "Lighting a fire, my friend." "Why, my friend?" "To cook
bacon with, my friend." "They will see the blaze of our fire from below." "How
_can_ they see when the mist is so thick there?" He admitted that I was right,
and allowed me to ignite my heap, which immediately began to crackle merrily.
Meanwhile, friend Valentine went and stood on the edge of the Precipice Stone to
watch the mist, and from time to time informed me of the changes of scene that
were going on: now the mists were beginning to break, now they were rising, the
houses would be visible almost immediately. And all the time I was toasting
slices of bread by the fire, and after that slices of bacon, allowing the bacon
fat to drip gradually down and soak through the toast with a deftness that would
have done honour to a professional cook. Bessy took it into her head to follow
my example. "Give me the bread and bacon out of the knapsack," said she to
Valentine. "But what necessity for it is there now?" "I must have it at once."
And with that she went up to him and began rummaging in the knapsack. "Why, what
a prosaic nature is yours!" said Valentine reproachfully to the lady. "At such a
sublime moment, too, in the presence of such a glorious spectacle! Just look at
that magnificent scene! The whole of the cloud of mist is rising like a stage
curtain. The gigantic theatre appears like magic from behind the hanging cloudy
tapestries. Behold the sunlit heights, the white shimmering houses. And now a
fresh mountain-chain emerges crowned with dim forests. Just as if they were of
massive gold...."

"Give me the bacon, I say." "My heart, my blood is thine, but ask me not for
bacon! Look how the earth rises up before us; nothing but mountains, mountains,
mountains! Still nothing to be seen of the dome of Heaven! And that deep divine
calm around us! Only from the distant forge resounds the measured thud of the
sledge hammer, as though one heard the throbbing of the heart of the universe!
And does not thine own heart beat faster in this sublime place?" "It throbs, it
throbs! Right sorely does it throb! But we'll look at the august spectacle a
little later." "What! Not look when an instant like this is worth a world?" The
natural phenomenon before us really was very fine, as the whole misty cloud rose
swiftly from the mountains, covering with a deep shadow the sky that up to that
moment had been shining bright and blue before us, and at the same time
unfolding before us the muffled panorama of hill behind hill beneath our feet;
the solar rays, like the broad diverging spokes of a huge wheel, shot down from
the cloudy rifts with a milky sort of glare. It would really have been a
majestic scene but for the false, disturbing pathos of friend Valentine. "Nay,
nay! I cannot view it standing on my feet! Here one should go down upon one's
knees. Here the gods themselves walk abroad!" Valentine plumped down upon his
knees, and because Bessy would not follow his example, he wound his arm around
her and clasped her to his breast. She, however, was impatient at his insipid
vapourings. "You are just like that professor," said she, "who held up his oil-
lamp against the moon that his guests might see her better." "Elizabeth!" sighed
the Celadon bitterly (Bessy was a name which could not be emphasized with sighs
so well as Elizabeth), "dost thou not remember that solemn moment when we said
to one another, 'How sweet it would be to die together this instant'? Has not
our common friend said (here he looked at me), 'A good death is better than a
bad life'? Come, let us verify that saying: wrapped in each other's embrace,
heart throbbing responsive to heart, a dizziness, a plunge forward from this
rock, and then a delicious flight whose goal will be the stars!" "Go away with
you! Don't make a fool of yourself! I have no wish to plunge into Heaven!" "But
I'll bear thee thither with me like a Valkyrian. And thou, my friend, wilt
immortalize our final catastrophe in a heroic ballad." And with that he seized
the lady by the arm, and rushed with her upon the steep rocky ledge. "Hast thou
said thy prayers to-day, Desdemona?" Bessy looked towards me with a timid look.
I pretended to observe nothing. What had I to do with these amorous passages? I
was frizzling bacon. "Dost thou doubt me capable of dying with thee at this
moment?" cried Valentine Bálványossi, with his wig awry over his eyes. Then the
lady cried with a supplicating voice: "Nay; but help me, dear Maurice!" "Very
well, I _will_ help you," thought I; "I did it once before, so you say. Poets
have long arms." "Friend Valentine," said I, without rising from my squatting
position beside the frizzling bacon, "don't you see those two men with muskets
coming up this way along the mountain path?" "Wha-a-at, two m-m-men with mus-us-
kets?" said the hero, his rumbling bass-baritone voice suddenly dwindling into a
piping treble. "Where are they?" All his longing for death had instantly
vanished, and he immediately released his victim from his embrace. I indicated
the approaching strangers with my toasting-fork. "There!" Then he also saw them.
"Br-r-rother, those are gend-end-end-armes!" "Possibly they _are_ gend-end-
armes, for there are two of them." "Put out the fire at once!" "I would if I
could, but I can't now. And if I did, what good would that do? They have seen it
already." "I told you not to make a fire here." But now Bessy turned furiously
upon him. "It is your stagey spouting that has saddled us with them. What
business had you to go declaiming on the mountain tops? The people fancy you are
murdering some one." "They are coming straight towards us," gasped friend
Valentine. "If they get hold of me, I am lost." I tried to reassure him: "Come,
come! recollect there are two of us; with my loaded cudgel and your revolver we
shall offer a stubborn resistance." "Br-r-other, they have guns which hit at
four hundred yards, while my revolver has only a range of thirty, and it doesn't
always hit the mark even then. We cannot risk so much. It is quite another thing
when I am in the dark cave, and they are out in the light, for then I can see
them, but they can't see me." "Then you'll hide away in your cave, I suppose?"
"Oh, not for my own life's sake, but for the sake of my country, whose fate I
carry in my bosom. The heels of my boots are full of secret despatches from
England and Turkey. I am not free to stake everything so lightly." "Well, go and
hide yourself, by all means!" But then Bessy put in a word: "'Tis all very well,
but what's to become of me. I cannot crawl on all fours into your big bear-
garden." "Nor would I allow it. Is not our common friend here? He will remain
here. _You_ will not run away, will you? I am sure they don't know you. Your
portrait has appeared nowhere, but mine has gone from hand to hand. A full
description of my personal appearance flutters at every street corner. If they
come, say that it was you who kicked up that row; say that she is your wife." "I
won't say that." "Then do what you like. I rely upon you, mind!" "That's all
very well," cried Bessy peevishly, "but what will happen afterwards? If you
remain in your hole, and our good friend goes home, what am I to do all alone
here by myself on the top of a rock? I shall never find my way home through this
wood." Then my friend, with cheap generosity, made this magnanimous offer:--

"Dear friend, take her home with you." So that was to be the _dénouement_ of
this odd drama! "No, my magnanimous friend. Not so! You go and reserve yourself
for posterity. We two will remain here. One of two things is bound to happen. If
those two men, armed with muskets, find me painting pictures in my album, they
will believe either that I am a simple painter (they know that Károly Telepi is
wandering about on a sketching tour here, and they'll take me for him, and Bessy
for--my sister); or they'll not believe anything of the kind, and in that case
they'll escort us both to Miskolcz. In the latter case you need have no fear of
turning back. If, on the other hand, after the lapse of a few hours, you creep
out of your cave and see me sitting as before, on the rocky ledge, and peaceably
continuing my sketching, then you will know that the armed invasion has passed
on further, and you can come back again to the Lady Elizabeth. Then I'll give
you my blessing, and we'll return from whence we came--you to the east, I to the
west." With this he was satisfied. "But don't betray me!" he murmured, casting a
terrified look upon us; "even though they hale you off to the block, don't say
where I am." I gave him my word of honour that not even the Spanish boot should
extort his secret from me, whereupon he went gingerly down upon all fours,
scrambled up the rocky summit by the corkscrew path, and vanished among the
bushes. "Ugh! I only wish he hadn't taken the bread and bacon along with him!"
lamented the girl he left behind him. "I'll share mine with you; there's enough
for two." And with that I seized my crooked clasp-knife, cut the slice of bread
in two, minced the bacon into little bits, and sprinkled it with salt and
pepper. Nor was that all. I rubbed both sides of the toasted bacon with a knob
of garlic. It was a sort of Oriental language of flowers. I meant to remind her
that her ideal of a man was one who did not rinse his mouth after eating garlic.
Thus we were alone on the summit of the Pagan Altar, crouching together beside a
fire of burning embers, and dividing a piece of toast and a slice of bacon--I
and the former mistress of my heart. That "former" was not so very long ago. It
was scarcely three years since the golden thrushes mingled their songs with our
chats. The idyllic contemplation of the matter, however, was considerably
disturbed by the concrete circumstance that, during these three years, a third
masterpiece of creation had found in my former paragon the rib that had been
subtracted from him while he slept. Her first venture was a fashionable fop, her
second an Antinous of the wilderness, her third was now a stage Othello. And our
feelings were still further subdued by the disagreeable tension occasioned by
the approach towards us of two armed men, who kept on popping up before us in
the clearings of the forest, now here, now there, but continually drawing nearer
to the Pagan Altar. There could not now be a doubt that they were making towards
us. "It would be as well if I set to work and sketched something in my album
while they are approaching," said I, "in case they inquire what I am doing
here." With that, I sat down on the steep rocky ledge, placed my sketch-book on
my knee, and designed the contours of my picture on a grand scale. The lady sat
down close beside me, and observed how I looked now on the hills and now on my
paper--but never into her fine eyes. We did not exchange a word with each other,
not a single word. At last, however, I grew impatient of the silence, and
without looking up from my sketch, I said to her: "I really thought that by this
time you and Peter Gyuricza had filled the whole world full of butter and
cheese." But then, with both her hands, she seized my sketching hand, so that I
had to leave off my work, and said, with a mournful voice:

"You have the most sovereign contempt for me now, eh? But if I were to tell you
what frightful calamities I have gone through since last we met, then I am sure
you would have compassion on me." I told her that if she liked to speak, I could
now listen, as I had plenty of time. "You remember when last we met, don't you?
When you banged the door in my face, I mean--though, God knows, I only meant to
do you good then. I never meant to make you so angry, and immediately made the
best of my way home to the hut of Peter Gyuricza. Ah! how sorry I then was that
I had not pleaded my cause with you better. I had another reason for going to
you. When the lawyers took up my case, the fair-haired partner offered me a
little money, which I might repay him, he said, when I gained my suit. But I
chose to ride the high horse, and rejected the proffered money, although I had
really nothing about me but three _huszases_,[71] which I had saved from the
proceeds of the butter. That was not even enough for the steam-boat. A couple of
florins or so would have done. But, of course, when you drove me out of your
room I had to do without." [Footnote 71: The _husza_--20 kreutzers.] "I am very
sorry that I did not guess your need." "Still more sorry was I. I was obliged,
in my straits, to climb into the cart of a poulterer who was going to Vienna,
and who, for two of my _huszases_, found a place for me among the hen-coops. I
still had a few _garashes_[72] for my journey, which were sufficient to pay for
the straw on which I slept at the inns where we descended. On the third day I
arrived safely at Uj-Szöny, and by that time I had eaten the last bit of bread
and cheese in my basket. In front of the inn stood a lame and paralysed beggar,
who begged alms of me in God's name. I had only two kreutzers still left. I kept
back one kreutzer from the beggar, for I knew that I should have to pay a toll
on the bridge. Now, that was your fault, look you. You might have inserted a
paragraph in the Twelve Articles of Pest abolishing the tolls." [Footnote 72: A
_garash_--3 kreutzers.] I was furious. I had to erase half my drawing. Bessy
laughed at my misfortune, and at her own also. Then she proceeded:--

"From thence I had to make my way home on foot. I could go right along by the
banks of the Danube without entering the town. I did not meet a single
acquaintance. In front of me I saw a large group of National Guards in blue
attilas, hastening rapidly towards the fortress amidst the beating of drums. It
must have been a serious business which prevented them from looking at a pretty
woman. Then I went nicely and quietly along the well-known way. Like the egg-
selling woman in the fairy-tale, I began to consider what I would do when I got
back my patrimony. I would go with my Gyuricza right away into Transylvania,
there I would buy him a property, where he might rear as many cattle as he
liked. I myself would learn to spin like the Pákular[73] women: my husband
should wear clothes of my own weaving. I would adorn my bedchamber with
embroidered napkins, hang varnished vases all round, and there should be rows of
pewter dishes on every shelf. We should have our plum-orchard too, and from the
plums I would make _palinka_. I would keep bees, and make mead, and bake honey-
cakes, which Peter loves so much when he can get them at the fair. All this time
I had never noticed that I was getting quite close to the hut. It was drawing
towards evening, and smoke was coming from the chimney. No doubt the little
serving-maid was cooking supper according to my directions. How surprised Peter
would be when I brought his flesh-pot out to him in the pastures! When I entered
the hut I found by the hearth--nobody. I went into the room. What do I see? My
Peter Gyuricza sitting at the table--with his wife; and they were supping
sweetly together out of the same dish, like two turtle-doves!" [Footnote 73: A
village in Transylvania, chiefly inhabited by Wallachs.--TR.] ("Aha!" I
murmured, "poetic justice with a vengeance; I myself could not have devised a
happier _dénouement_.") "Everything became green and blue before my eyes. My
throat contracted. I was incapable of uttering a word. But the tongue of the
little peasant woman wagged all the brisker. No sooner did she see me than she
bounced from her place, cocked her _haube_ on the side of her head, stuck her
arms akimbo, and fell foul of me. "'Ah, ha! my dear precious lady! I suppose
'tis Carnival time, since you come masquerading hither like that! Perhaps you've
come because you've lost something here, eh? A shawl, perhaps? A very pretty
little ladyship, that I _will_ say! Haven't you got a nice enough lord and
master of your own at home? Must you befool the poor peasant also? Or if your
lawful husband is not enough for you, can't you go and choose another from among
the cavaliers of your own rank? You hanker after laying your little stuck-up
noddle on my patch-pillow, eh? You ought to be ashamed of yourself!' "I was
dumbfoundered. This face of a fury, with the eyes sticking out of its head,
robbed me of all my pluck. In my despair and doubt I looked at Peter. "He all
this time was sitting with his elbows on the table and swallowing one dumpling
after another. "'Is this justice, Peter?' stammered I, half-sobbing; 'will you
let me be treated like this?' "At this he struck the table with his fist a
mighty blow and roared at his wife: 'Woman! Shut up! Hold your tongue! Sit down
at that table and fill your stomach! I'll speak now.' "The woman sulked in
silence, but, even while her husband was speaking, she could not forbear putting
in a word or two here and there, such as: 'She has worn out my dress, too!--I
didn't steal that! My lovely chintz dress! How she has rumpled it! Just as if
she had been tumbling it about in every pot-house!' "But Peter spoke very
sagely. "'My lady, I beg pardon! I know what honour is. I was once a soldier. I
know my duty. What won't match can't match. A horse and an ox won't draw
together. A peasant woman's meet for a peasant, a lady's meet for a gentleman.
Now did I ever so much as raise my little finger to your ladyship? You know I
didn't. And yet how many times haven't you ruined the butter? You never
moistened the maize. The pigs wouldn't eat it because it set their teeth on
edge, for you threw them hard raw grain. This won't do, you know! When the cows
calve, who'll be there to see to them? And who is there to clean out the
furnace? The mice have gnawed away the sleeves of my jacket, it's all in rags.
Besides that, I have got into the way of saying, "Hie, you Jutka! d'ye hear?"
and then she knows very well what her duty is; and when I strike her she makes
no bones about it, either. I couldn't live without thrashing her occasionally;
it does my back good, which would else grow double; and she always knows how to
come round me again.'" I threw my sketch-book and my palette out of my hand, and
flung myself down on my back, I laughed so much. How could I help laughing?
Bessy laughed too. "I can laugh mightily at it now, but situated as I was then,
his words were so many lashes. At last I flew into a rage and attacked Peter.
"'Can't you say straight out that Muki Bagotay has bribed you to take back your
wife, whom you drove away on his account?' "'Oh, I humbly beg your pardon, you
must not say that I am bribed. I am an upright man. His honour, my lord Bagotay,
gave me ten head of oxen as a gift, but he didn't bribe me.' "My heart was ready
to break at these words. "Ten head of oxen indeed! For the sake of this peasant
I had sacrificed my whole existence, the world in which I had hitherto lived,
the respect of my acquaintances, my ease and comfort. I had made the earnest
resolve to become a peasant woman for his sake, to work, do without things,
suffer penury, and when once I had recovered my property, to give it all to him,
make him a gentleman according to _his_ notion of a gentleman, and the wretched
creature had bartered me for ten oxen!" I hastened to explain to Bessy that this
was really the legally appointed fine for adultery in case the affair came to be
settled. Verböczy[74] says: "_Raptor solvat decem juvencos._"--"The seducer must
pay ten oxen." [Footnote 74: The great Hungarian jurist (1460-1541), and one of
the most eminent statesmen of his day. His _opus magnum_, entitled "Tripartitum
opus juris consultudinarii inclyti regni Hungariæ," was first published in 1517.
--TR.] Bessy then proceeded:--

"Peter next began to give me counsels worthy of a patriarch. "'My lady, I've
only one thing to say. Go back to his lordship. God's my witness that nothing
will befall you. Say now, Jutka--come, on your soul be honest--have I so much as
touched you with my little finger since you came back? His lordship, too, knows
all about it. He will close one eye. Let's look upon the matter as if he and I
had been wrestling together, and first one had had a fall and then the other.
One box on the ears deserves another. So it is among men of honour!'" "Oh, don't
make me laugh so, or I cannot go on sketching!" said I to Bessy, with the tears
in my eyes. "I don't know what you can find to laugh at, I could cry for
vexation even now." "Why, that of itself is enough to make one laugh!" Bessy
continued:--

"But then the woman began talking nicely to me, which was ever so much worse.
'Come, come, my dear, good, pretty lady, have respect for your nice, handsome,
lawful lord. Why, what a fine gentleman it is! Why, if I hadn't my Peter ...'

"'You manage to forget that, though, pretty often!' intervened Peter. "The long
and short of it all was that I had to resume the clothes I had left behind me,
and restore to Jutka the draggle-tail rags which she had charged me with
spoiling. But what objection could I make? What belongs to another is his, so I
began to strip off my frock and neckerchief before the pair of them
straightaway. "The other woman then got a bit ashamed on my account. 'Let us go
into the inner room,' said she; and drew me into the little chamber, and took
out of her wardrobe the lordly raiment I had left there, and then helped me to
dress. And all the time she was so mild, so friendly, and quite lost herself in
rustic caresses and flatteries: 'Why, what a nice slim waist! What a shame that
a mere clown should clasp it round! What lovely white shoulders! What a sin to
ruin them by carrying about heavy loads! And how swollen the little feet are
from much walking! Why, they'll scarcely go into the old dress-boot, I do
declare! Why fly into such tantrums about such trifles! Good gracious me!
suppose every lady who caught her lord with a little milkmaid were to carry on
with the first clown that fell in her way! Things like that should not be taken
so seriously. A man is but a man, especially if he is a gentleman! Why, I've
seen _countesses_ even, whose husbands went on the loose. You expect too much,
my dear! Chocolate is the nicest dish in the whole world; but if one were to
give one's husband nothing but chocolate every day, he would soon loathe the
very sight of it. Come, come! go home, dear heart, my darling ladykin, to your
dear good lord and master, and you'll see how heartily he'll receive you!' "I
replied that I would never go back to him again. I wept for shame. The woman
guessed the cause of my tears. "'Come, come, good heart! Why, my lady, we'll all
of us agree to deny that this little holiday ever happened. We were talking
about it just now. We'll lie the thing away, and say that your ladyship only
wanted to frighten the good gentleman, and that you were hiding the whole time
at the house of the local magistrate.' "And how about the flower-selling in the
market-place, and the promenade through the waters?' "'We'll say that that was
only done out of spite. How should a dirty clown like my husband presume to cast
his eyes on such a precious treasure as your ladyship? Why, anybody who could
believe such a thing would be called a downright fool. We'll put it all to
rights finely.' "'But a separation suit is already going on?' "'Your ladyship
needn't trouble your head about that. His honour has withdrawn his complaint.
Yes, I declare he has. He told me he was in great embarrassment. He had been
deprived of his tithes and land tax, and did not know whither to turn for money.
The gentlemen up at Pest had reintroduced the _morgatorium_, or whatever the
plaguy thing is called, which as good as said that all the old debts were not to
be paid, but that no new debts were to be made. Now, if he is divorced from your
ladyship, he will have to pay you back your 100,000 florins, and then he'll be
ruined. That's a fact.' "A light began to dawn upon me. This garrulous little
peasant woman had let out the secret why my idyll had terminated so abruptly. A
very pretty twice-two certainly! They receive me back like a pupil returning to
school after the vacation. For that very reason I resolved I would _not_ go
back. "When I was dressed again in my old clothes, she opened the little door
and readmitted me into the larger apartment. Peter was now tricked out in his
grandest array. He had donned his Sunday mantle, drawn on his new boots, and
stood before me hat in hand. He was as humble as a lackey. He kissed my hand,
and I noticed now for the first time how very bristly his chin was. When he
spoke it sounded like the whining voice of a burnt-out beggar-man who stands at
the stable-door and begs an alms. "'I kiss your gracious hands, my lady. I
humbly beg pardon if I have offended you in any way. I didn't mean to do it.
Forgive me my fault, and I'll never do it again.' "At this I knew not whether to
laugh or to cry. "Then he got quite touched, and wiped his eyes with the
flapping sleeves of his shirt. "Behind the door stood a stout willow-wood stick,
which he laid hold of. I wondered what he was going to do with it. Would he give
it to me as a staff for my pilgrimage? "'Permit me, your ladyship, to accompany
you as far as the castle. Some evil might befall you on the way. There are bad
men about. The dogs might bark at you, and the bull is quite savage.' "'But I am
not going to the castle,' I said. "He gaped at me. 'Whither away, then?'
"'That's my business! The road goes up, and the road goes down. I'll go
whichever way the wind blows.' "Then he rallied all the wisdom he possessed, and
preached a sermon to me with all the unction of an Old Testament patriarch.
"'Don't do that, my dear good lady! Don't grieve your good and loving lord!
There's not a better man in the world. Allow me to accompany you home. I'll keep
well behind--twenty yards if you like.' "I stamped my foot impatiently, and
bawled at him to come away from the door and let me go my way. "Then it was that
Peter showed his true colours. "'My lady, this cannot be! The good and worthy
squire, when he gave me the ten oxen to take back my wife, said this to me:
"Well! Peter Gyuricza, if you bring my wife home also, ten young calves shan't
stand between us."' (The rocks and woods re-echoed with my laughter. I couldn't
keep it back.) "Then my fury boiled over. You know that when I fly into a rage I
am a perfect lioness, don't you? I snatched the stick from Peter Gyuricza's
hand. 'Lubber, lout! I'll give you your ten young calves! There you are, take
them!' I don't know whether I gave him exactly ten blows. I didn't count them.
And the big lout of a man turned tail, rushed into the room, dodged round the
table, and roared like a hippopotamus, while I broke the stick over his
shoulders. His consort thought it best not to interfere, but leaped upon the
bench and looked on. It was a real luxury for her to meet with some one who
could thoroughly trounce her tyrant. "I only wish my previous journey had not
fatigued me so much. "I began to recover a little when I found myself out in the
fields, and the breeze blew the heat out of my head. My idyll had come to a
pretty end. What was I to do now? One thing was certain, I could not return to
Muki Bagotay. "But whither was I to go, then? "Before me lay the beautiful
Danube. The road by the dam ran all the way along it. From time to time I leaned
against an old willow-tree and looked at the great living-water. Now and then a
fish would leap up into the air with a loud splash. I was not afraid of the
water, but of the fishes I was afraid. I could not kill myself. I should have
rejoiced, if that had been true with which they used to frighten us in our
childish days when we leaned over the bank and looked into the water: Beware of
the devil who lurks behind you and will push you in! But he didn't push me in.
The devil can do nothing now. He cannot compete at all with the sons of men. But
was it really worth while to kill myself for the sake of two such men as Muki
Bagotay and Peter Gyuricza? No, my death would then have been as ridiculous as
my life! "I thought I would go home to my mother. She couldn't exactly turn me
out of doors. Let her punish me as she will--I'll humble myself; I'll bow down
before her; I'll endure her wrath. After all, is she not my mother, and am I not
her only child? She cannot but love her little one. From any one else I could
not expect to find pity or love. Why, I even hated myself! "With these thoughts
I set off towards the town. "It was baking hot. A strong south wind was blowing,
as dry and burning as if it had come out of a stove. Clouds of sand covered the
whole region, and whenever a gust came, I had to take refuge under a willow-
tree, lest I should be hurled into the dam. I can't say what time of the day it
was, but I know that it was the forenoon to me, for I had eaten nothing yet that
day. The Gyuriczas had forgotten to invite me to sit down to their dumplings....
To quench my thirst, I descended once or twice to the Danube and drank some
water out of the palm of my hand. On the road-side I found a flower which I
thought was a cheese-poppy. I tasted it, but it was very nasty. Weary as I was,
I must hasten to get to the town as soon as possible. I should have been glad
even of such a piece of bread as I used to distribute to the beggars at home on
Friday. "I was hastening on towards the town, when suddenly a kind of darkness
rose up before me in the sky, and on looking at it more attentively, I was
horrified to observe that in the town a fire had broken out, the black smoke of
which was rolling up into the dust-clouded sky. "The burning simoon blew back
the black smoke upon the town. Great Heaven! the whole town will be reduced to
ashes. "And now I began to run. I forgot that I was weary, I forgot that I was
hungry. Fear lent me fresh strength. The nearer I got to the town the higher the
smoke rolled up. Now, however, it was not black, but red. Millions of sparks
shot flashing upwards, and huge fragments of flaming roofs were to be seen
flying in the midst of them. When a tiled house caught fire, the burning tiles
shivered like fiery rockets in every direction. A whole street was already in
flames when I reached the town. Howling heaps of men, carts and carriages in
full career, wailing women, children half crushed and suffocated, and in the
midst of them all lowing kine and oxen wildly struggling back into their dark
stables at the sight of the conflagration--the whole mass was rushing backwards
and forwards in aimless confusion. I forced my way into a side street, lest I
should be crushed to death, with the intention of getting home that way.
Everywhere I encountered lamenting crowds attempting to drag along the streets
the things they had saved from their houses. Nobody thought of extinguishing the
flames. The burning embers fell in torrents. When I got to my mother's house I
found it already wrapped in flames. It was the highest house in the street. A
handful of Honveds were attempting to extinguish the flames. Others had mounted
on the roof, and were throwing the furniture out of the windows. I saw a gold-
framed picture flying through the air--it was the portrait of my poor father.
Oh! he indeed used to love me. If he had only lived, I should not be what I am
now. There were none but strange faces around me. In vain I asked them where my
mother was. They had not heard of her. All at once a white-collared officer,
some major or other I suppose, came up and cried to the fire-extinguishing
Honveds, 'Why are you putting out that fire? It doesn't deserve it. It was there
that the colonel lodged who set the town on fire! Leave the cursed hole alone,
and go and protect the hospital!' I knew not whether I had gone mad or not. Why
did they curse our house? The Honveds began execrating the name of a colonel who
had often come to our _soirées_. If they recognise me, I thought, perhaps
they'll pitch me into the fire also. One heavy cart after another rattled over
my poor father's portrait. I couldn't even save that. I was aroused from my
benumbing stupor by a frightful yell, the shout of thousands and thousands of
men: 'Saint Andrew's Church is burning!' One of the slender towers of that vast
cathedral was already in flames, while in the other the alarm-bells were ringing
furiously. The mob carried me with it. Every one hastened along to save the
church. But it was already too late. The other tower had also caught fire, the
bells were silenced, the roof of the church was also ablaze. The beautiful
church banners, which the guildsmen used to carry all round the town with great
pomp on Corpus Christi day, were dragged out half charred amidst the falling
firebrands. The heat was so terrible that one could not remain in the market-
place. 'The whole town's done for!' cried the men. 'Let us fly to the island!'
And with that the human flood poured through the narrow streets towards the
Danube. The thought occurred to me that _there_ was a little villa which
belonged to us. Happy thought! Perhaps I might find my mother there: she might
have fled there for refuge. So I went along with the human torrent. By the time
we got to the island drawbridge, it was impossible to get any farther through
the densely packed crowd. Why were they coming back? Because the drawbridge was
also burning. It was a terrible spectacle. The whole Danube shore was in flames,
and the drawbridge leading to the island carried the conflagration still
farther. The Danube was hissing with falling red-hot beams. Corn-ships,
windmills, swam blazing along, and dashed against the ice-breakers. A band of
armed Honveds posted by the custom-house kept the people back from rushing upon
the burning bridge. They told us what had happened. There was a greater danger
even than fire. An Imperial regiment had tried to creep quietly into the town.
They were already at Tatá. The citizens, however, had found it out, and raised
the drawbridge against them. The troops, enraged at the failure of their
stratagem, had set the town on fire. What a cursing there was! I heard one
particular name branded again and again, the name of the colonel who was to have
married my mother if the revolution had not intervened." I could not go on with
my drawing. The mist no longer lay upon the landscape, but upon my eyes. The
young lady continued circumstantially the history of those horrors:--

"Then three cannon-shots thundered from the fortress. No doubt it was only a
signal which the troops often give in times of fire. But at this roaring of guns
the fear of the people became still greater. 'The enemy is storming the town!'
At this the whole crowd, which had hitherto entirely covered the Danube's bank,
immediately rushed back again into the burning town, through the flaming streets
and the burning rafters. 'To the Waag, to the Waag! '[75] everybody cried. In
that direction there was a hope of deliverance. I am only amazed that I was not
crushed to death. In my terror I seized hold of a boatman's arm, and the worthy
man, whom I had never seen before, allowed me to cling on to him like grim
death; assured me that he would take care I was not left behind, and dragged me
along with him over the backs of the struggling mob." [Footnote 75: A confluent
of the Danube.] Here she had to pause. The recollections of these horrors
stopped her breath. Pearls of sweat stood upon her forehead. It was only after a
very long pause that she was able to resume. "I shall never forget that day. The
alarm-bells were still pealing from a single tower, the tower of the Calvinist
church. All the other church towers were in ashes, this one alone remained. The
wind was blowing in a contrary direction. The fire had not yet extended to that
part of the town. Every one hastened in the direction of the Calvinist church
tower. The streets in the vicinity of the fortress were barred against the
flying crowd by the Honved regiments; the only street by which it was possible
to get to the Waag was Sunday Street. This also was half in flames, but from
where Great St. Michael Street cuts across it, it still remained untouched. Your
house was the border building beyond which the fire had not yet extended, but
the inn at the opposite corner was burned to the ground. Oh, that dear familiar
house, with those cool corridors, and those red marble columns, on the iron
cross-bars of which you, as a boy, so often used to show off your acrobatic
feats before me! The thought occurred to me of seeking sanctuary there in my
great extremity. At one time I was wont to be heartily welcomed there. It is
true that I had sinned grievously against that house, and the lady had
reproached me with it to my face. I _had laughed at her son_, and that laughter
had driven him out into the world. But in seasons of great calamity wrath is
forgotten. I would seek a refuge there with your mother. Such were my thoughts
when I saw your mother's house. That sight I shall never forget. There stood the
good old lady on the threshold of her house, in that very brown dress, that very
frilled turban in which you painted her portrait. Whenever she recognised
anybody among the flying crowd, she stopped him, and asked, 'Have you not seen
my son?' and when he replied, 'I have not!' she would wring her hands and sob
bitterly, 'Oh, Holy Father! why is not my son here?'" Alas! what was the matter
with my eyes? They suddenly filled with something. The young lady continued her
story:--

"When I heard your mother saying these words, I was possessed with fresh horror.
It never occurred to me that you had an elder brother who was the guardian of
the orphan wards of the town, and that his proper place then was in the Town
Hall, with the roof blazing over his head, trying to save the property of the
orphans. I dared not go along that side of the street; I crossed over to the
other side. Suppose she were to seize me also and ask: 'What have you done with
my son? But for those accursed, colour-shifting eyes of yours, he would now be
beside me, he would never have left me all alone!' I dared not, I dared not meet
her eye. I would rather endure the sight of my own mother's angry face than the
tearful look of your mother. I hid my face in my hands, and hurried past." She
could say no more. She let her face fall on my breast, and sobbed aloud. CHAPTER
XIII

WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THAT

When she again lifted up her face, her eyes were like a somnambulist's gazing
fixedly in the moonlight. They appeared absolutely dark-blue, so much were the
irises distended. Her voice was quite low. "The whole picture is still vividly
before my eyes. The greater part of the town was in flames. It must have been
evening. The sound of the clock in the Calvinist church tower mingled with the
peal of the alarm-bells. The clock struck eight, the alarm-bells five. The
people counted the strokes: exactly thirteen. The sun shone no longer, but the
whole vault of heaven was alight; the fiery reflection of the thick clouds of
smoke made a hellish daylight, and in the midst of this terrible illumination,
like some dread idol, rose the tower of the Calvinist church, with its large
copper roof, and its spire with the great gold ball and star. Star and ball
glowed like phantoms from the world beyond the grave. The crackling of the fire
roared down the howling of the beasts and the cries of ten thousand terrified
men. In that part of the town where the carters dwelt, carts, horses and oxen,
and their owners were all huddled together in one dense mass. To move was an
impossibility. Then upon this howling, cursing, blaspheming multitude came
pouring that mass of men which had fought its way from the banks of the Danube
through the burning town, with the terrifying cry, 'The enemy has attacked the
town!' By this time the alarming rumour had gained such proportions that there
were those who said they had actually seen the enemy's soldiers entering the
town. 'They are burning, they are plundering--fly! fly!' Some even exclaimed,
'They are about to bombard the captured town from the fortress!' All at once the
whole street, as far as the Waag bridge, was filled with flying vehicles. In my
terror I had clutched hold of the mud-splasher of one of these vehicles as it
came tearing along, and ran along after it till there was scarcely a breath left
in my body. My light buskins were completely worn off my feet and full of
gravel. I had no time to stop and empty them. This particular carriage had
excellent horses in it, and the coachman did not spare his whip. Two women,
dressed in peasants' hoods, were sitting in this carriage. I was astonished that
they should wrap themselves up so closely in their hoods, and cover their heads
with big kerchiefs, when such an infernal heat was blazing all around us, from
the earth, from the sky, and from every side of us. "The coachman reached the
Waag bridge safely before the other fugitive carriages had blocked up the way.
At the entrance they had to stop, for there the custom-house officers demanded
the bridge-tolls. That the whole town was in flames mattered not a button to
them, all they wanted was their tolls. One of the women handed them an Austrian
bank-note for 100 florins. The toll-collector could not give change. A queer
sort of peasant woman, truly, who had no smaller change than a bank-note for 100
florins! While they were haggling about it, it occurred to me that I was now
wearing my genteel clothes, and that in the pockets there was sure to be a
silver _tizes_[76] for any beggar I might chance to meet on my way. So I went up
and said to the peasant women: 'I've got a _tizes_ which I'll give to the toll-
collector; all that I ask is that you will take me in your carriage--there's
room for me beside the coachman. I don't mind where you take me.' At this, one
of the women called to the coachman: 'Don't let that girl get up, we won't have
her.' Then they told the toll-collector that he might keep the 100-florin note
if he couldn't give them change, if only he would let their coachman go on. I
was horrified at such inhumanity. What a heartless woman it must be who, in such
a time of peril, could refuse a fugitive girl a place in her carriage, and who,
rather than do so, preferred to sacrifice a bank-note for 100 florins, peasant
though she was! In my indignation I tore the big muffling clout from the head of
the peasant woman and discovered her face. And now my blood froze to ice. I
recognised my own mother! 'Mother, dear mother!' I cried, 'don't you know me? I
am your own little girl, Bessy!' Then my mother, pulling up the collar of her
mantle over her face, said, in a simulated peasant voice: 'Be off! Don't bother
us! I don't know the girl. I'm not your mother. Let go my kerchief!' [Footnote
76: The tenth part of a florin.] "I thought I was going mad. My own mother
wouldn't know me! She wouldn't let me get into her carriage. Like lightning the
thought flashed through my mind that she it was whom the people were cursing so.
No doubt they were cursing her unjustly, but in such times as these that
mattered little. Whomsoever the popular fury points out is condemned already. I
could not betray my own mother. I hastily threw my silver coin to the toll-
collector that they might let the carriage go on. I thought that if once we got
beyond the bridge, and my mother had no further fear of pursuit, she would take
me into the carriage. So catching hold of the back part of the vehicle, I ran on
beside the carriage till we had got beyond the trenches of the fortress and out
upon the highway. Then I again began to supplicate, so far as my gasping voice
would allow me: 'Mother, dear, good mother! take me into the carriage; I am
dropping. I can go no farther.' They would not hear me. They only cursed and
scolded: 'Be off! Decamp!' And when I still persisted in clinging on, they at
last seized my fingers, which were still clutching the splasher, violently
wrenched them off, and gave me a rough push so that I fell at full length into
the highway. Then the carriage rolled on farther. "I had held out till then, but
now my strength failed me. I trembled so that I could no longer stand upon my
legs. Utterly crushed in mind and body by the sufferings of that terrible day, I
dragged myself on my knees to the edge of the wayside ditch. My instinctive fear
of death told me that I must avoid the middle of the road if I didn't want to be
trampled to death. There then I lay clinging to a roadside poplar, gazing
apathetically at the dreadful scene. The fugitive vehicles dashed madly along
the highway in threes and fours, colliding every moment. The cursing and
swearing were something awful. Every now and then one conveyance overturned
another into the ditch, and the women who were sitting in them screamed and
cried most piteously. One coachman hit upon the foolhardy idea of forcing his
way through the ditch into the open field, and others followed his example. They
came so close to me as to all but run over me, and I had not sufficient strength
left to draw up my legs out of reach of their revolving wheels. "Then the blast
of trumpets mingled with the hurly-burly. A regiment of Hussars was trying to
cut its way through the fugitive carriages with a convoy of hay-waggons, which,
as was explained to me later on, the Commandant of the fortress was transferring
from the burning town to the village of Izsa across the Waag. The commanding
officer was cursing and swearing, and striking all the coachmen he met with the
flat of his sword for stopping his soldiers' way. 'Damned rascals! instead of
putting out the fire, you all take to your heels. What the devil is the matter
with you? There's no enemy behind you! Would that the souls of your ancestors
could revivify you!' "The voice seemed familiar to me, but the face I had never
seen before. A spiral moustache, a French beard, a Hussar uniform, and a plumed
hat--I had never seen _that_ figure before. "Thus he appeared before me like the
dragon-slaying hero of a fairy tale. "Hitherto, of all those who scurried past
me, not one had noticed the wretched creature lying in the ditch. Some girl or
other quite past help, they thought, perhaps. Nobody took any notice of me.
"This officer _did_ notice me. In the midst of the greatest turmoil he perceived
a woman lying beneath his horse's feet. He hastily reined in his charger, and
called me by my name. 'My lady Elizabeth! how ever did you come here? In
Heaven's name, what has befallen you?' "I recognised him by his mode of
addressing me. There was only one man who used to address me in this way, the
man who taught me my _rôle_ at those famous amateur theatricals that you
remember. "'Mr. Bálványossi! Mr. Director!' I stammered, in my joy. "'No, no!
Captain Rengetegi is my name. Why, where is your mother? Run away? She did well.
Get up, my lady, into my carriage, and I'll take you now to a place of safety.'
"'I cannot get up.' "Then he hastily dismounted from his horse, gave his bridle
to his orderly, went up to me, raised me in his arms, carried me to his
carriage, and laid me down there among sweet-smelling hay. "I felt just as if I
had been placed in Paradise. "Then he threw his mantle over me. It was cold
outside now, and a strong wind was blowing. "But his care for me went even
further than that. "'There is food in my knapsack, lady Elizabeth. I suppose you
have had no supper to-day? Take whatever you find there. There's some drink,
too, in my flask. It will do you good. You have nothing more to fear. The
finger-pointing virgin still stands there on the bastions of our fortress.'
"Then he mounted his horse again, and continued commanding his men loudly and
authoritatively to force their way through the crush of carts and carriages with
their convoy of hay. I fancied that I saw before me an archangel. "I didn't wait
to be asked twice. As soon as I was able to get hold of the knapsack of
victuals, I stuffed myself indiscriminately with all it contained--ham, cake,
rolls. I gorged like a wild beast broken loose from a menagerie. I verily
believe that if my bliss in Heaven had depended upon it, I would have renounced
it for that couch of soft straw and those greedily devoured delicacies. "When I
had satisfied my appetite as I had never done before, I unscrewed the top of the
flask and put it to my mouth. I didn't taste what was in it, but I gulped and
gulped so long as I had any breath in my body, as much as my thirst craved. I
fancy it must have been brandy. When I couldn't drink any more I looked all
about me. The burning town was a grand illumination; in the midst of it was the
Calvinist church tower--only it was now not one tower, but three. The silly
thing was dancing a _pas seul_, and wagging its head now to the right, and now
to the left, and all the people, and the horses, and the coachmen, and the hay-
carts were leaping and dancing, like wedding-guests considerably the worse for
liquor. "When next day I awoke out of a twenty-hours' sleep, I found myself in
the room of a peasant's house. Two men were holding a consultation over me--the
camp-surgeon and 'he.' 'How do you find yourself, lady Elizabeth? You are in my
little room.' "So ever since then I have been the lady Elizabeth." With these
words Bessy rushed to the edge of the steep rock, crossed her two hands over her
breast, and looked over her shoulder at me. "I have now told you everything, and
you must judge me. You have no need to push me. Give but a signal with your
finger and I'll put an end to myself!" Horrified, I grasped her hand, and
snatched her away from the dizzying rocky ledge. "Do not tempt God! Be
reasonable!" And, not without some little force, I made her sit down by the hot
embers. "But do you call this _life_?" "Come, come, calm yourself! Look, these
armed men are close upon us!" They were not gendarmes. They were two worthy
foresters belonging to the domain of the Forests of Diosgyör--a grey-bearded old
man with a youthful assistant. No hostile intentions had brought them thither.
They could see, too, that our picnic beside the fire was a very innocent
diversion. In the album left upon the rock was my unfinished landscape. They
greeted us cordially, and I returned their greeting in like manner. I asked the
elder man whether I was injuring any one's proprietorial rights by making a fire
with other people's wood. If so, I said, I would make good the trespass. To
which the old man replied that he had no quarrel with me on that score. The
stuff was there for the poor man to gather, and he cited the classical German
ballad in which the evil-minded forester robbed the peasant of his bundle of
faggots. He must needs be a lover of letters, then! Then he told us why they had
come. "We perceived the smoke from below, and knew, therefore, that there were
visitors on the Precipice Stone. We thought it our duty to come up. Wolves are
about in the forest. We wished to tell you so." "I thank you for your great
kindness; but, from what I am told, wolves will not attack a man." "But they've
become very aggressive since they discovered that the Government has confiscated
all muskets, leaving only a pair or two with us. They avoid men in the day time,
I know; but at dark or in a snowstorm they are very impudent." "We do not intend
to remain here till evening. I only wanted to finish the drawing, for the sake
of which I scrambled up hither." "But I would call your attention, sir, to the
fact that we shall have a fall of snow here before night. I know the signs of
the weather. When such a vast mist lies over the country in the morning, and
then rises suddenly, and is quickly followed by darkness, then we may expect a
snowstorm the same day. That is an old experience of mine." "We will hasten
home." "Do you live at Tordona, or at Malyinka?" "I live at Tordona." "God bless
you, sir. I know every one there." He didn't ask who I was. We shook hands, and
with that the pair of them went on their way. "Was it worth while creeping into
the cave for this?" said Bessy, when the foresters had withdrawn. "There are men
who can face a great danger and hide away from a little one." "And you think,
then, that our friend there is a fire-eater?--I thought so too for a long time.
It was no unexampled thing in those extraordinary times for men to become
suddenly transformed. Those who were looked upon as mere carpet knights became
veritable heroes; lawyers became colonels: war has an ennobling influence on so
many types of character. I really believed that Rengetegi had changed his whole
nature with his name. When others had to be aroused, there was no such orator as
he. I was absolutely proud that we belonged to each other. When the Austrian
troops invested the fortress, and hurled the first bomb into the market-place,
the whole of our social life was suddenly turned upside down. There was now no
such thing as etiquette. The families of great magnates left their houses
(those, that is, whose houses were not burnt down already), pitched their tents
in the Gipsy-field and dwelt there. The guns of the Monostor batteries did not
carry so far as that. In the barracks, moral law disappeared. An officer was a
great personage then, and to walk about the streets leaning on his arm was a
much-coveted glory. Whether the lady on his arm was his wife was not the
question--he was a fine fellow, a gallant fellow. That was the main thing. And
if I met an acquaintance I introduced Rengetegi as my future husband. Every one
knew that I had begun a suit against Muki Bagotay. But where were the courts,
the advocates, the judges?--every one was either wearing a sword or serving a
gun. When people asked me where I lived, I said 'in the fortress!' To dwell in
the fortress was an enviable position. The rooms there were fire-proof. I really
think that there were more who envied than pitied my fate. I also got familiar
with the ways of a soldier's life. They gave concerts, and I fiddled while
Rengetegi declaimed. When the enemy was hurling away his bombs at the fortress,
we took our band out on the ramparts, and there, with a great flourish of
trumpets, we danced _csárdáses_. How that did aggravate the Germans! I had a
great reputation as a _rakétás_[77] dancer." [Footnote 77: Rocket-dance.] I must
frankly admit that I was not much edified by this turn in the conversation.
Bessy perceived that I was not well pleased with her doings in camp. "Ah, my
dear friend!" she said, "don't fancy by any means that this episode of my life
consisted entirely of rioting and revelry, there was a little intermezzo in it
also. You know, of course, that, during the winter, things at Comorn were very
bad indeed. The Commandant had not the capacity for the problem before him,
which included the defence of such an important fortress. The garrison was lazy
and mutinous. Whispers of treachery arose, and the chief of the artillery was
deprived of his post. It was necessary to inform the Hungarian Government at
Debreczin of the dangerous state of things at Comorn, and to beg for a new
Commandant who should be a distinguished officer. But how was it possible to
carry a message from Comorn to Debreczin? Who would undertake the risky
enterprise of carrying the despatch from Comorn, through so many hostile armies,
and bringing back the reply to it again? They had sent one messenger already,
but he had been unable to get back. It was a joke which might cost a man his
head. "One evening, Rengetegi came to my little room in the barracks, and said:
'Elizabeth, the hour has come for us to part!' "I immediately thought that he
was tipsy. "'You haven't played me away at cards, I hope?' "'It is not you, but
my own head that I have lost. I have accepted the mission to Debreczin. I've run
my head against a wall, I know. It's neck or nothing now. And they've pressed a
thousand florins into my hand to make the way before me quite secure.' "'And you
have lost it all at cards this evening?' "'How did you find that out?' "'I have
made it my study. I know well those Hippocratic countenances. Well, and what are
you going to do now?' "'Save my honour! I'll go on my way without money.'
"'Listen to me! I believe that you would be very glad to get out of this
bombarded fortress--but I've no very ardent belief that you'll ever come back
again. I tell you what: give me the official despatch which has to be taken, and
I'll take care that it reaches the hands of the Government.' "'But how?'
inquired Rengetegi, immensely delighted. "'That I shall not tell you. I've been
turning the matter over for some time. You have only a passive part to play
here. You hide yourself in the village of Izsa, which the enemy has not
occupied, because it lies within the range of the guns of the fortress, and wait
for me there till I return from Debreczin with the answer of the Government.'"
"And Rengetegi actually accepted the proposal?" I inquired. I now began to
admire this woman. "He jumped at it. He gave me soul-stirring examples of the
heroic women of history, who had gone to the wars along with their husbands....
He vowed that if I ever returned in safety from my mission he would henceforth
call me 'Queen Zenobia.' "By the evening of the same day I was ready for the
enterprise. I made Rengetegi dye his hair, moustache, and beard black, so that
it was almost impossible to recognise him." "So that was your idea!" I cried.
"Then I stowed him away in a peasant's hut at Hetény, with strict instructions
not to emerge from his prison till I tapped at the door. Next I set to work to
thoroughly disguise my own person. I was to be the leader of a gipsy band. Ah!
if you could only have painted my portrait! Then, indeed, I really was lovely! I
smeared my face with the juice of green walnut-shells till it was so black that
I could pass for a gipsy among the gipsies themselves; I clipped my hair till it
only reached down to my shoulders; I put on a jacket which some gentleman or
other had worn threadbare before giving it away; hose that certainly were never
intended for me, and a shirt that had never been washed: and so I transformed
myself into as filthy a shape as ever led a wandering gipsy band." Here I could
not forbear from pressing her hand. What sacrifices will not a woman make for
her country and for her lover! "But all this was a mere joke to what followed. I
now had to get together a band. If they catch a gipsy alone they arrest him as a
spy; but if he be one of a quartet he may go on his way rejoicing. I provided
myself with a violoncellist, a clarinet-player, and a contra-bass. It was easy
to persuade them to quit the bombarded town, into which the gentry who had
robbed them of their poor hovels had forced them to go. Bread and meat were
getting dearer and dearer, and there was nothing to be earned. Who had the heart
to pay for music amidst such a frightful carnival? "Thus, with my little band of
three, I set out upon my long and uncertain journey on foot. Gipsies only ride
in sledges when a magnate sends for them, and there was no such magnate in the
whole district. If on our way we fell in with a cart laden with dried reeds
taken out of the swamps for firewood, we would ask for a lift in it. But our
legs nearly froze there, and we were glad to get down again and walk. "In the
very first village we came to, O-Gyalla, we fell in with a division of the
Austrian investing army, German cuirassiers. The patrol brought us to the major
in command. He was indeed a merciless personage. He roared at us, and asked us
how we dared to leave the town. We naturally did not understand a word of
German, and all four of us, in true gipsy fashion, began to raise objections at
the same time: we could not remain in the town, the Honveds posted us right in
front of the bombs, and made us play music at the very top of the bastions; all
the cannons had fired at us, and that was a thing that gipsies couldn't stand.
'_Was sagen die Spitzbuben?_' inquired the major of his auditor. The auditor
understood Hungarian, and expounded unto him: 'Nix da, you rascals! You are
spies, and must be searched. Come! you must undress.' I was not a little
alarmed, I can tell you. Not on account of the despatches I had with me, I had
put them in a place where they couldn't be found; but they would discover that I
was a woman, and that while my face and hands were gipsy, the rest of me was
European--and then I should be lost. I hastily said something to the gipsies,
and in an instant they out with their instruments and rattled off _con fuoco_
the fine hymn '_Gott erhalte!_' At this the frosty face of the old martinet
thawed somewhat. 'Well, well, you rascals,' said he, 'as you know what's proper
and decent, I won't have you flogged this time, but be off at once and don't
remain in the village here. You mustn't play here for anybody. Whoever has an
itch for dancing just let him tell me, and I'll give him dancing enough. There's
the whipping-post!' Now the clarinet-player was a merry wag, and could not hide
his light. 'Devil bless your honour,' said he, 'you pay with big bank-notes.'
'_Was sagt der Karl?_' asked the major. He says, 'Gott soll segnen den grossen
Herren, der zahlt mit grossen _Bank_[78]-noten!' At this his honour also
laughed. 'But for all that you must pack yourselves off at once. You mustn't
stop till you reach Ersekuvar, but there you may play as long as you like.' We
kissed his hands and feet, and asked him to let us stay the night there. We were
half frozen, we said. We had not a morsel in our stomachs: for a whole week we
had only eaten ice and drunk water. But he knew no pity. They blindfolded us,
packed us into a sledge, and a patrol of horse escorted us out of the village.
Now, of course, it was my very dearest desire to get as soon as possible beyond
the iron girdle by which the besieged fortress was girt about. If only he can
get out into the wide world, the gipsy has no fear of going astray. He can
fiddle his way through the whole of Europe if only he gives his mind to it. And
so we made our way along the Danube, from one town to the other, and enjoyed to
the full all the romantic adventures of a wandering gipsy's life which abound in
winter especially." [Footnote 78: "God bless the great gentleman, he pays with
big _bang_-notes!" --a poor jest.] "But," interrupted I, "didn't you come across
Görgey's Hungarian army, under whose protection you might have continued your
journey?" "Of course I did, but my instructions were to deliver my despatches to
the head of the Hungarian Government, and nobody else, not even to a general. It
is true that I might have gone on farther with the gallant Magyar army, where
gipsy-music is always heartily welcomed. The Honveds, too, never lose their good
humour; but, on the other hand, the main Magyar army was going towards Slavonia,
whereas it was my object to get to Debreczin as soon as possible. So there was
nothing for it but to go straight through the enemy's lines till we reached the
banks of the Theiss, when we could be once more in a friendly world." "But where
did you conceal the despatches?" I asked. "I stuck them inside the belly of my
fiddle. Who would break the fiddle of a poor gipsy with which he earns his daily
bread? The money we earned in one town was sufficient to hire a sledge to convey
us to the next. Gipsies dwell on the skirts of every town. We made ourselves at
home there, and they never asked us whence we came; but if we were cross-
examined at any place, then we lied to such a degree that the difficulty was to
find anybody to believe us. You recollect what a terrible winter it was last
year?" "I remember it very well. I was out all through it with my wife," I said.
"How fine it would have been had we run across each other unexpectedly. I would
have played a nocturne beneath your window. Ha, ha, ha!--The bitterest stage of
the journey was from Kecskemet to the Theiss. There lay Jellachich,[79] with all
his army, occupying the towns of the great Hungarian plain one after the other.
Here we had to creep through as best we could. As for me, I had the good fortune
to play every evening before his Excellency the valiant Ban. He was very pleased
with me. With my little band I managed to play the famous Croatian march,
'_Szláva, szláva, mu, mu, mu, Jelacsicsu nas omu_,' in quite a superior manner.
I also knew the tune of the fine 'Kolo' dance, and absolutely won his
Excellency's heart with the melodious 'Fanny Schneider' polka. I might say that
I was really quite spoiled. There was plenty of money and wine, and, despite my
black face and my predominating odour of garlic, the enthusiasm rose so high
that all the officers kissed me one after the other." [Footnote 79: The Ban of
Croatia, who sided with the Austrians against Hungary.--TR.] Bessy had no sooner
uttered these words than she buried her face in her hands. Again I came to her
rescue. "Those kisses don't count; you were a man then." "It was quite a gipsy
paradise, but the mischief was we did not know how to escape from it. The
chivalrous Ban told us not to try to run away, for in that case he would court-
martial and shoot the lot of us. At night, when our duties were done, he locked
us up in a little out-house, and placed an armed sentry before the door. "One
night we escaped up the chimney and over the roof of the neighbouring house;
that is to say, three of us managed to get away, I and the clarinet-player and
the contra-bass. The violoncello, however, could not be got out of the chimney,
and the violoncellist declared that he would rather be stretched on the rack
than leave his instrument in the lurch. So there we left him--to pay the piper.
Besides, I had now not much need of my band; the Theiss was only a four hours'
journey off. "I had heard from the officers that in the willow woods of the
Theiss, in the neighbourhood of the 'Szikra' inn, some Hungarian guerillas were
encamping. If only we could get among them! "It was a good thing for us that
sentinel duty was very laxly ordered in the camp of the Ban of Croatia. At the
end of the town was a _putri_, or semi-subterranean clay hut of the kind in
which field-labourers pass the night during the summer. The soldiers who had
been sent out on forepost duty were sitting in this hut, and their muskets were
all leaning against the door. One of the gipsies said: 'Let us steal the
muskets!' The other said: 'Steal your grandfather; I play with clarinets, not
with muskets.' I urged them to press forward. We were near to the sand-hills.
Before us lay a savage, rugged plain, where one sand-hill followed hard upon
another. Some of these hills were half hollowed out by the wind, and the hollows
between them sparsely dotted with dwarf fir-trees. A ghostly region. The sides
of these sand-hills were white, and the snow-fall on the top of them was still
whiter; and every tree-trunk there is also white with its pendant branches[80]
bending down beneath the hoar-frost. We dodged up and down among these sand-
hills, turning aside from the regular high road so that we might crouch down in
case we were pursued. Along the whole length of the plain the broom of the wind
swept our footprints over with snow. [Footnote 80: To-day this former waste of
shifting sand-hills has been converted into a splendid vineyard, which the
Hungarian Government has planted with vines from America proof against the
_Phylloxera_.--JÓKAI.] "'If only we don't come across wolves!' said the contra-
bass, with chattering teeth. "'How can they be here when so many soldiers are
about?' said I, by way of encouragement. "'Nay, but they like to prowl about
camps, because carrion is always to be found there.' "Where the sand-hills
ended, a far-extending flat began, and in the distance was a direful-looking
object, resembling a ruin. A light mist covered the whole district, in which
mist every object seemed as large again; the full moon shone wanly, like a huge
broad halo in the misty heavens." Here I explained to Bessy that this district
was the famous plain of Alpar, where the ancient Magyars fought the decisive
battle against Zalán, which gave them possession of the land; the ruin was the
wall of the desert church of St. Laurence. "Indeed! and I may add that this
desert is memorable to me also. While we were waddling along as fast as we
could, with our short mantles turned against the wind, the contra-bass, who was
going on leisurely in front, exclaimed:

"'Devil take all these crows! Why don't they all go to sleep in the tower of the
Calvinist church?' "I inquired why the crows ought to go to sleep on the top of
the Calvinist church of all places in the world. "'Let the Calvinist crow stick
to the top of the Calvinist church, and the Papist crow to the top of the Papist
church, as is meet and right,' he explained. "I did not understand this
sectarian distinction among crows, but the gipsy made it quite plain to me.
"'One sort of crow is ashen grey, another sort black. The grey sort eats no
flesh, but only grain; that is the Papist crow. The black sort lives on flesh,
whether it be earthworms or fallen horse; that is the Calvinist crow, for it
keeps no fast-days.' "Then he called my attention to the fact that on the hill
there straight before us, a whole army of crows was making a great commotion. At
one moment they rose high into the air with loud croakings, at another they
descended upon the self-same spot from which they had risen. 'There must be
carrion,' he said. "When we got to the top of the hill, we saw, to our great
consternation, that the evil foreboding of the gipsy was correct. "On the
highway below, by the side of the ditch, lay a big black mass, the carcase of a
fallen horse, and fighting over what remained of it was a whole army of crows
and ravens and five large _wolves_. "We were about five hundred paces from the
terrible beasts. "They immediately perceived us, and, leaving the carcase,
forthwith began scudding towards us, spurring each other on with their nasty
short sharp yelps. "'Alas, alas! It is all up with us now!' wailed the contra-
bass. 'The wolves will eat us up.' "Even in that hour of mortal peril the
clarinetist was true to his gipsy humour. 'Then we shall have a very queer shape
at the resurrection,' said he. "I bade them leave off wailing, and hasten to
clamber up into a willow-tree, whither the monsters could not follow us. "It was
an old pollard willow, the branches of which were cut off every year, so that
only the crown of it remained, surrounded by young shoots. I, who had never
learnt the art of tree-climbing, was hoisted up by the gipsies first of all, and
then they hastily scrambled up after me. "When we had got to the top of the tree
we discovered that in the middle of it was a large hole--the whole inside of the
tree was hollow, and could contain a man. "'Leader,' said the contra-bass, 'your
loss would be most serious, creep down into that hole.' I took him at his word,
and glided down from the crown of the tree into the deep hollow trunk. First of
all, however, I tied my long cotton neckerchief to a little branch, that I might
be able to hoist myself up again in case of need, for the hole in the willow
went right down to its very roots. At the side of the tree, too, close to an old
branch, there was an orifice as large as one's fist, through which one could
look as through an attic window. "The five wolves were not long in arriving.
"They did not come quite near at first, but reconnoitred. Whenever one of them
sneaked up a little nearer, the clarinet-player aimed at it with his instrument,
which the wolf took for a musket. Then the beast would back a little and scratch
up the snow with his hind legs. They say the creature is wont to do this when he
sees a man stand on the defensive; he tries to blind him with snow. "When,
however, the wolves at last discovered that we had no fire-arms, they sent up
the ugliest howls, and began the siege of the willow. They took tremendous leaps
in the air to reach the crown of the tree, but it was too high for them. "Then
it occurred to the gipsies that they had often heard that wolves had a strong
penchant for music, and they began giving them a clarinet and fiddle concert.
"It is true that the nasty brutes left off the siege, sat round the willow, and
began to howl in concert with the music, at the same time raising their horrid
jaws towards the moon, and lashing their sides with their ragged brush-like
tails; and for a short time I was quite amused at the scene. But suddenly our
double danger occurred to my mind. "'Hey! gipsies. Stop, I say! Is the devil in
you? Your music will bring the pickets of the Croats upon us, and they will flay
us alive.' "At this they stopped their music. "This appeared to make the wolves
still more savage, and now they tried a fresh stratagem. "They had found out
that the willow leaned a little to one side, and rushing at it from a little
distance, they attempted to scale the sloping side of the tree. This manœuvre
was likely to have succeeded. It was then that I saw what a powerful beast the
wolf really is, and how much more cunning than any species of dog. Scrambling up
at full tilt, they managed to reach the crown of the willow, but there the brave
contra-bass was awaiting them, and gave them such a kick on the snout with his
iron-heeled boots that the attacking beasts fell head over heels backwards.
"This they repeated ten or twelve times. "And there was this remarkable
circumstance about it, that every time an attacking wolf was prostrated by a
kick from the gipsy, the others rushed upon him as he fell, and worried him as
if to punish him for his failure. "Suddenly they left off, and went and sat down
in a heap just in front of my window. Their tongues lolled out of their panting
mouths; their hot, bestial breath rose into the cold air before me. They
appeared to be taking counsel together. The biggest of them seemed to be their
leader. If one of the younger ones yelped too much, he would snap at his neck as
if to say 'shut up!' "At last they appeared to have hatched their stratagem. The
whole lot of them got up and shuffled farther off, squinting over their
shoulders all the time towards the willow-tree. "My gipsies fancied they were
saved. "'You shall have no roast gipsy this time!' bawled the clarinet-player
after them derisively from his sure stronghold, as he fancied it. "All at once
the wolves returned and stormed onwards like race-horses, each one being about a
wolf's tail ahead of the other. "The first of them rushed straight up the tree,
and while the contra-bass was kicking him in the head, the second wolf leaped
across the first wolf's back and seized the man's leg. "I heard a despairing
shriek:

"'Don't let me go, comrade!' "The second musician tried to free his down-falling
friend from the jaws of the wild beast, and in doing so lost his balance, and
the pair of them fell down from the tree. "What happened after that is more than
I can tell you. It is enough that I should have had to live through that mortal
struggle of the two luckless victims with those filthy brutes. How many times
have I not dreamt it all over again! I believe that even if I had committed all
the seven deadly sins, I should have more than expiated them all in that awful
hour. I hid my face in the crumbling rottenness of the hollow tree, that I might
hear and see nothing. It seemed an eternity to me while the bestial howling
lasted which the wolves made as they shared together their accursed banquet in
my very presence. "I dared not stir, lest they might find out that I also was
there. Great Heaven! What horrors I had to endure! "Suddenly a sort of growling
and snarling began close beside me. The old wolf was running sniffing round the
hollow tree. He had discovered that there was still booty inside it. "He began
to scrape the earth at the root of the tree. He evidently meant to dig a hole
beneath the tree through which he might get at me. Fortunately for me, it was
not sandy soil, but stony, hard-frozen turf. He could not succeed that way.
"Then he caught sight of the hole in the side of the tree. At one time, perhaps,
a branch had been sawed off at this spot, and the bark had rotted away. The wolf
began to enlarge this opening, tore it with his claws, and gnawed and worried
the rotten wood with his grinders. He had soon so far enlarged the hole as to be
able to stick his head into it. I saw the green glare of his fiery eyes; I felt
his stinking breath; I heard the gnashing of his teeth. Then despair made me
foolhardy. I drew my crooked knife out of the leg of my boot, with the other
hand I seized the wolf by the ear, and cut it off at a single twirl. "At this
the beast, with a furious howl, drew back his head from the hole, and began to
howl and run away like a whipped cur. The others followed after him. With the
wolf's ear remaining in my hand as a trophy, I sank back against the hollow
trunk; I could not sink right down, because the hollow space was too narrow." I
felt a cold shudder run all over me at this ghastly narrative. Bessy herself was
quite exhausted. "Alas! I am quite worn out. I tremble at the very thought of
it. You are the second person to whom I have told it. But how pale you are all
at once!" I suppose I _had_ turned very pallid. It had suddenly flashed through
my brain that just at that very time my wife was on her journey through an
uninhabited valley, and the foresters told me that wolves strayed about there.
Bessy sighed deeply, raised her drooping head, and then continued her story:--

"Thus I had freed myself from the wolves; but I was not left very long in the
belief that shame at my depriving their leader of one of his ears was the cause
of it. No! Wolves are not so shamefaced as all that. A troop of horsemen was
approaching from behind the sand-hills. There were six men on horseback and one
man on assback. "One terror had been supplanted by another. "Peering through the
hole in the tree, I recognised the uniforms of the horsemen by the light of the
moon--they were Jellachich's hussars. And that there might be no doubt about
their coming after us, I recognised as they came near the face of the ass-rider.
It was my bass-viol player, whom I had left behind me. "It was very easy to see
what had happened. The gipsy, to save his own skin, or, perhaps, at the
flogging-post itself, had confessed that the band had come from Comorn, and was
hired by me to go as far as Debreczin. Hence it was not very difficult to
conclude that I was only a false gipsy, who was carrying despatches from the
beleaguered fortress to the Hungarian Government. "The horsemen had brought the
gipsy with them that he might put them on my track. Once discovered, and I was
lost. "On the snow field, lit up by the moonlight, the scene of the hideous
struggle was plain to the newcomers. The long lines of blood, fragments of torn
garments, a foot sticking out of a boot in the snow--Ugh! May I never see such a
sight again! "The horsemen galloped quickly up over the crackling snow. "The
violoncellist had to dismount from his ass. "The good creature howled and
groaned from the bottom of his throat, bewailing his comrades in the gipsy
tongue, and cursing the monsters who had devoured them. "The leader of the
patrol was a sergeant. He ordered the gipsy about in Croatian, and the gipsy has
the peculiar virtue of understanding what is said to him in a language of which
he is perfectly ignorant. He replied in Hungarian. "'Oh, woe, woe! Those
accursed wolves have devoured our leader! There's his boot! They've only left
his boot. I recognise it well. He bought it only last week at Czegled. He gave
six florins for it. A brand-new boot! And this is his foot.' "It was plain to me
that the gipsy had guessed that I was hidden somewhere, and there was enough of
the gipsy in him, even amidst the greatest horrors, to induce him to make fools
of my pursuers. He betrayed me first of all because he couldn't help it; he
saved me finally because he _could_. He knew very well that I had given my new
boots to the contra-bass. My boots were of Russian leather. "'Look there!' cried
the sergeant, and he pointed with his finger. '_Jeden, dwa! Jak sza tri?_'[81]

[Footnote 81: Croatian--"One, two! Where's the third?"] "The gipsy swore by all
that was holy that that was the third. "'Then where's the first?' "'That's the
first, of course!' "There was no dinning into his head the arithmetical truism
that if you take two from three one remains. "The sergeant thereupon ordered one
of the hussars to dismount from his horse, at the same time pointing at the
willow-tree with his sword, whence I concluded that he was about to examine the
tree to see if anybody was hidden in its hollow trunk. "I now veritably believed
that the time had come for me to turn my crooked knife against my own throat.
"All at once a crackle of musketry resounded from the brushwood, and a company
of guerilla horse dashed out, crying, 'Forward, Magyars!' The Jellachich hussars
didn't see the joke of this at all, hastily turned their horses' heads and
galloped off in the direction of the town. The violoncellist also mounted his
long-eared beast, and ambled gently off in a third direction midway between the
two belligerents. He had no desire to take any part in the struggle. "The
guerillas, who were numerous, sent a few volleys after the enemy, but from such
a distance that the bullets couldn't possibly hit the fugitives, and then
returned in triumph. Then I, hearing them speak Hungarian, quickly hoisted
myself up out of the hole into the top of the tree, and began so far as my
hoarse voice would allow me, to give them indications of my existence. "The
gallant warriors immediately hastened to the willow-tree and helped me down from
my dangerous perch. Their leader, a handsome, chivalrous-looking young man, with
a true Hungarian face, began to cross-question me, and asked me whence I came
and whither I was going. Perceiving that I was among Hungarian soldiers, I
frankly told them that I had come from Comorn, and had been sent to Debreczin
with despatches for the Hungarian Government. "The guerilla captain was a
suspicious man. "'Oho! I daresay! That's easily said, but difficult to believe.
What! confide such a mission to a gipsy! A likely tale!' "I told him that I was
no gipsy, though my face was painted so, but that I lived at Comorn and belonged
to the place. "'Then, if you are an inhabitant, tell me if you know one Maurus
Jókai there--and what you know of him?' "I was very pleased to answer such a
question. 'I know him very well,' I said, 'and I can tell you this much about
him, that he went to the High School at Kecskemet, where he completed his legal
studies--or rather learnt how to paint in oils from a worthy comrade of his
there.' "Without more ado he clapped his hand in mine: 'That worthy comrade of
his was no other than myself.' "So you see," she said, turning towards me, "you
were of assistance to me, even here." "Wasn't that old schoolfellow of mine
called Jansci?" I asked. "Yes, that's what they called him. With him was another
young man, with quite a girlish face, and him they called Józsi; he inquired
about you most particularly. When you gave your artistic representations at
Kecskemet, he used to play the girl's parts." "Quite true," I said, "so it was."
"So you see I must have been there or I should have known nothing about these
things. The guerillas told me all about it as they took me with them. They were
very attentive. One of them gave me his mantle, another let me mount his nag,
and so they took me to the 'Szikra' inn, where they made me drink punch with
them, regaled me with veal, and then made me a bed on the straw with their
mantles that I might sleep off my exhaustion. The Jellachich hussars gave us no
trouble. They could not come back till morning, when the whole regiment would
doubtless turn out to capture the guerillas, who would, by that time, be on the
other side of the Theiss. The sledges were all ready to start, and would scour
back across the frozen river at the first signal to Czibakhaza, where were the
foreposts of the Hungarian army under Damjanich. "But for a long time I could
not sleep. Constantly before my eyes flitted the horrible death-struggle between
the two unhappy men and the wild beasts, and amidst the howling and shrieking
resounded the gay song of the guerillas:

'The hut's ablaze, the rush-roof crackles,     Press thy brown maid to thy
breast!' In my dream this tune was mingled with the howling of the wolves, and
at one moment the wolves were singing, 'The hut's ablaze,' and at another the
Croats were howling at the gipsies sitting on the branch. Towards morning I was
awakened by two cannon-shots. I rejoiced to be delivered from my spectres. The
lieutenant of the guerillas hurried me into the sledge, as a regiment of hostile
horse was approaching from Kecskemet. "It took us ten minutes to dash across the
frozen Theiss. On the opposite bank the foreposts of the Honveds were encamping.
The business of the guerillas was to harass the enemy, capture their forage
waggons, and then bring word of their movements to the main army. "They took me
straight to General Damjanich. [82]

[Footnote 82: Made Commander-in-chief of the 3rd Hungarian Army Corps in
consequence of his brilliant exploits at Alibunar and Lagerdorf; he annihilated
Karger's brigade at the great battle of Szolnok, and was elected to represent
that town in the Hungarian Diet. After fresh exploits he was made War Minister,
and, after the war, was court-marshalled at Arad by the Austrians and shot. He
had not the military genius of Görgey perhaps, but as a general of division was
admirable.--TR.] "I was now no longer obliged to keep my despatch hidden, so I
split up my fiddle, took out of it the documents that were gummed to it, and
their production was my best credentials. "The approving, smiling glance of the
powerful, heroic-looking General I shall never forget. At the sight of him I
quite forgot that I was personating a man, and would have liked to have fallen
down before him and kissed his hand. Indeed, I was so agitated that I could not
utter a word. "The General filled a little glass full of _szilvorium_. [83]
'Drink, my son!' said he, 'it will loosen your throat.' [Footnote 83: A spirit
made from plums.] "My throat was hoarse; I had a voice as deep as a man's. I
told him I had come from Comorn, and I was sent to Lazar Mészáros, the War
Minister. "'You will seek old Kóficz[84] in vain at Debreczin, my son, he
commands there no more. So you Comorn folks don't know what's going on outside,
eh? Another is at the head of the War Department now. I will give you a letter
of introduction to him.' [Footnote 84: This Hungarian War Minister had said in
one of his reports that the motions of the Opposition in the Diet would turn to
nothing but _Kóficz_ (_i.e._, water-gruel). The name stuck to him ever after.--
JÓKAI.] "Then he sat down and wrote me a couple of lines to a General with a
German name, which is expressed in Hungarian by the word _Bacsi_. [85]

[Footnote 85: Cousin.--Vetter was the General in question.] "He said, while he
was writing this letter, that this General with a German name was the life and
soul of our military organization. "Then, by the General's command, I received a
nice clean Honved uniform (I had to retain my brown countenance for some time
longer), and besides that I had an open passport enjoining upon all to give me
every facility to reach Debreczin as quickly as possible. "On the evening of the
following day I arrived at Debreczin, and on descending from my sledge,
proceeded at once to the General's. He was a mild, soft-featured gentleman, with
a close-clipped beard and moustache. He didn't even wear a General's uniform.
Nobody would have guessed his rank from the look of him. After reading through
my letter of introduction, he looked me straight and sharply in the face. "'You
are Captain Tihamér Rengetegi, eh?' "If I had only been intent on my own
interest, I might have told him quite frankly that I had no right either to the
name or the uniform of a soldier; but how could I betray my faithful consort who
was smuggled away in the hovel at Hetény? "'Yes, General, I am.' "'Who made you
captain?' "'The War Minister.' "'For deeds of valour?' "'During the siege of
Vienna I twice carried despatches through the besieging camp from the Hungarian
Government to General Bem.'" Here I intervened: "That is not true; I know very
well through whom the Hungarian Government got those despatches." "Anyhow, my
friend boasted of it as his own deed," said Bessy; after which she resumed her
narration. "'Good!' said the General; 'now give me the despatch.' "The
information was written in a secret cipher. "'I must decipher this first. There
will be a meeting to-night of the Committee of National Defence. Early to-morrow
morning you will appear before me. Now go to the "White Horse." Speak to nobody.
Keep your room!' "Nevertheless, an hour afterwards he sent for me. "He led me
into his inner room, for he allowed himself the luxury of a double-roomed
apartment at Debreczin. Two other ministers, Paul Nyáry and Joseph Patay, were
not so fortunate. They had to be content with a double room between them. "The
General was now very gentle with me. He made me sit down at table, and poured me
out some tea. He offered me a cigar too, and although I ought not to have done
so, I lighted it. It nipped my tongue a good deal, but I had to show them that I
was a man. "Then he made me tell them how I had got out of the fortress, and how
I had forced my way through the hostile camp. My relation made a great
impression. When I was dismissed, they pressed my hand and assured me that my
good and boldly executed service should be rewarded. They further commanded me
to come to them early the next day. "I appeared next day at his headquarters in
full parade, and they admitted me before any one else. "Again they made me sit
down in the inner apartment, and drew the bolt before the door of the outer
room. "Stretched out on the table was a large military map which embraced Upper
Hungary and Galicia. 'You have brought very important information with you from
Comorn,' said he, in a low voice. 'Considering the time when you set out, you
have arrived here with astonishing rapidity. You must now take the reply back,
which will contain the directions of the Council of War and the appointment of
the new Commandant, who will be gazetted to-night. Can you make your way back to
the fortress with this despatch?' "'I'll try.' "'You must get back without fail.
What's your plan?' "'To go back by the same road in the same manner and the same
disguise is impossible. The wolves tore two of my comrades to pieces, the Croats
captured the third, and as he may have confessed everything, they would
recognise me at once if I appeared before their eyes as I am now. Besides, there
is no conceivable reason why gipsies should wish to leave the open plain in
order to get into a bombarded town. This despatch can only be conveyed to Comorn
by a woman who is _obliged_ to go there on some unimpeachable business, and is
provided with an Austrian safe-conduct.' "The General clapped his hands together
in amazement. "'And do you know of any woman who would undertake such a thing?'
"'Certainly I do.' "'Where? What's her name?' "'That's my secret, General. The
difficulty of getting into the fortress is also very much increased by the fact
that the appointment of Richard Guyon as the new Commandant has already become
generally known.' "The General leaped furiously from his seat. "'Who, then, has
made this public?' "'It is here in the official gazette,' I replied, drawing out
of my pocket that morning's issue of the _Közlöny_. "The General tugged his
short moustache still shorter. "'Well, well! I see that we Magyars have yet to
learn the art of keeping a secret. The enemy knows it now, but the Comorn folks
do _not_ know it.' "'I have already hit upon a good idea of enabling the mandate
of the Council of War to reach their hands.' "'By a carrier-pigeon or a balloon,
I suppose?' "'A foreign passport is necessary for my plan.' "'That you shall
have--an English passport _viséd_ by the Embassy. In whose name?' "'In the
lady's.' "'Then you must give us the lady's name.' "Then I gave him my real name
as the lawful wife of Muki Bagotay. "'And you? Will you get into the fortress?'
"'Possibly, as that lady's coachman--possibly not at all; but the despatch will
get in, anyhow.' "'And how will this lady of yours manage to hide the despatch?
I can tell you beforehand, that even if your lady were provided with a safe-
conduct from the Princess Windischgrätz[86] herself, and so got right through
the hostile camp into the invested fortress, the Austrians would indeed welcome
her most courteously; but they would at the same time say to her: "Would your
little ladyship be so good as to step into that side-chamber; there you will
find a complete set of lady's clothes, would you be so kind as to put them on--
if they are a little more abundant than your own, that doesn't matter? The
toilet you have brought with you may remain here, down even to the shoes and
stockings; whenever you like to come back again, you can re-exchange your
clothes." For they know that it is possible to write on chemises with invisible
ink and reproduce the writing by means of chemical re-agents. It is also
possible for the heels of your boots to have secret openings, in which a letter
written on straw-paper might be inserted. They might also retain the comb with
which you fasten up your hair, for a valuable message might be written thereupon
in microscopic letters.' [Footnote 86: The wife of the Austrian Commander-in-
chief.--TR.] "'All this they may do if they like, and yet this lady of mine will
convey the despatch into the fortress.' "'I should like to know her secret.'
"''Tis a very simple one. She will learn the whole despatch by heart from
beginning to end.' "The General began to laugh. "'Oho ho! My dear friend, you
don't suppose that we would entrust our couriers with a despatch in good
Hungarian for the enemy to snap it up on the way, and thus learn all about our
military operations. It may also be deliberately betrayed. In the times in which
we now live men are quick enough to discover excuses for _changing their
saddles_. This despatch contains all our secrets: where we are strong, where we
are weak, where we want to assume the offensive, where we are obliged to stand
on the defensive. Such a despatch would be worth 200,000 florins to the enemy at
the very least.' "'I can assure you, General, that neither I nor this lady will
betray it.' "'You couldn't if you would, for the whole despatch is in cipher.
Take it, and look at it. Do you understand a word of it? Can any one possibly
learn it by heart?' "The writing which he placed in my hand was composed of a
jumble of letters grouped into words--characters whose contents could scarcely
be called language at all. I nevertheless assured the General that this lady of
mine would learn the despatch off by heart all the same. "''Tis impossible.'
"'Nothing is impossible. Once, when we were actors ...'

"'Then you were actors? And this lady was an actress too, eh?' "'Yes. Once our
whole company went to Eszek, and there we acted a whole piece in the Croatian
tongue without understanding a word of its meaning. A man is like a starling. If
he repeats a thing a hundred times it remains in his head although he does not
understand it.' "'Look here, then! Read but two lines of this despatch a hundred
times over, half an hour will do, and see if it remains in your head.' "I
consented. A quarter of an hour had not yet elapsed when I said that I was
ready. I gave the General the despatch back again, and asked for ink and paper.
And then slowly, meditatively, I wrote down the contents of those two lines
letter by letter. "'You've got a marvellous headpiece,' said the General, in
amazement. 'And has that lady of yours just such a marvellously retentive
capacity as you have?' "'Just the same.' "'Then I consider the stratagem as
feasible.'" Here I could not help leaping to my feet. "What!" cried I, "you
actually undertook to learn by heart a whole despatch written in cipher?" "No,
my sweet friend! I won't deceive you as I deceived that other man. The whole
thing was a delusion. The cryptograms which reached the Commandant of the
fortress were entrusted to Rengetegi, that he might unpod them with a secret
key. He communicated this key to me. One had only to know a single word whose
consecutive letters repeat all the characters of the alphabet in different
series. The whole thing only required a little calculation; there was no need to
rack one's brains about it. With the assistance of the secret key I first of all
deciphered the cipher, and then I retransferred it into its original rigmarole."
"But are you aware," I interrupted, "that if the General had found you out, he
would have had you shot on the spot?" "I suspected as much. But he suspected
nothing. He was really a good, worthy man. He said that things being as they
were, he could safely confide the despatch to my hands. "After that he pointed
out to me on the military map the route I ought to take through Galicia, by
which I should possibly avoid falling in with the enemy's squadrons. My passport
in the name of Madame János Bagotay he filled up with his own hand. I begged him
to leave a blank space for the personal description of my travelling companion.
"When this was ready he gave me a portfolio full of Austrian bank-notes, besides
a hundred louis d'ors and a handful of silver money. "Then he pressed my hand,
and said: 'The last line of this despatch announces the promotion of Captain
Rengetegi to the rank of major.'" At this both Bessy and I laughed heartily, and
then she merrily resumed her story as follows:--

"My return journey was in a much more lordly fashion. Everywhere relays were
waiting for me. In a couple of days I reached Vienna. While still in Comorn, I
had learnt that my mother had gone there for refuge, and still kept up her
intimacy with a certain high official in the Imperial army. He was in the
service of the War Minister there. It was not difficult to find him. I will
leave you to picture to yourself the scene of our meeting. My mother loves
acting, but she is a bad player, she never knows her part. She would have liked
to have cried and fainted when I came rushing in, but she got no further than
sobbing. I was all the better able to play my part. I hastened to excuse her for
her behaviour at our last meeting. I took all the blame on myself. I ought to
have remembered, I said, that it was not the proper thing to cling on to my
mother's carriage when the infuriated populace was seeking her life. Then I went
on to the motive of my coming there. The Hungarian Governmental Commission at
Comorn had ordered that every Austrian bank-note which could be laid hands upon
was to be burnt in the middle of the market-place. My mother had 40,000 florins
in bank-notes, which the Orphanage Fund had retained from my patrimony. This
amount had been lent out to various persons at interest. These persons, as soon
as they heard of the order of the Governmental Commission, had hastened to
deposit their German bank-notes--not in the fortress, but in the town bank, that
they might at least get back their securities; and thus it was _our_ money that
would be burnt. That was why I had come at such a break-neck pace, I said. If my
mother would give me a power of attorney for the purpose, I would immediately
return, and as I had great influence with the Commandant, I would so manage that
our money instead of being burnt should be handed over to me. After that I would
settle with my mother. She also had money locked up there which I would get
handed over to me. "This proposition made an impression. "I had already informed
my mother by letter of all this when communications were freer than now, but
she, as all nervous people do with their letters, the moment she recognised my
handwriting in the address, put it away without opening it. She fancied it was
full of maudlin penitence. Now, however, when I called her attention to this
letter, she took it out and opened it, and almost fainted with terror when she
saw the annexed official communication of the Governmental Commission, and
learnt therefrom that the term fixed for the bonfire of the Austrian bank-notes
would be reached in three days. "Then there was such a scampering to her good
friend the high official, and to all sorts of high commanding officers, in order
to procure for me a safe-conduct; then she got me a power of attorney neatly
written out, by means of which I could reclaim her money, and then she said:
'Now, don't wait a moment, my darling girl, but jump into a fiacre and gallop
off to Comorn.' "I found my journey back much freer from obstacles than my
coming away. The self-same major of cuirassiers who would have had me flogged as
a gipsy leader was now full of courtesy towards me. After reading my letter of
introduction, in which the object of my journey was mentioned, he could not have
the slightest doubt that I was about purely private business which was very
pressing. He did not even have me searched. I could have smuggled into the
fortress anything I liked. "When I had passed through the besieging lines, I
turned off from the highway in the direction of Hetény, that I might seek out my
captive. "After the first delights of meeting each other again were over, I told
him the whole story which I have just been telling you. I must say that I had a
much more appreciative audience than you are. At the sensational scenes, he
flung himself on the ground ... and with folded, uplifted hands implored the
wolves not to devour me. He swore that if he caught the Ban of Croatia he would
dance the life out of him for making me fiddle so unmercifully. When I dictated
to him the despatch I had learnt by heart, by means of the secret key, the last
lines of which contained his promotion to the rank of major, he exclaimed, with
an irresistible burst of grateful emotion: 'My Queen! my Zenobia!' I had made
him a major; he made me a queen. We were quits. "'And now let us hasten to the
fortress,' I said, 'for I have urgent business there. I want to save my
property. Our house has been burnt already; if our money is burnt too, we shall
be beggars.' This made him hasten. "'I must, however,' said he, 'devise
something to round off my expedition, something of the quality of a heroic
deed.' "And by the time we reached the fortress he _had_ devised something. "The
return of the courier with the despatch of the Hungarian Commander-in-chief
created an extraordinary sensation in the fortress and spread even to the town.
The Commandant immediately proclaimed that Captain Tihamér Rengetegi had been
promoted to the rank of Major by the Hungarian War Minister for extraordinary
services. "A banquet in honour of the returning hero followed. All the officers
were present. The ladies also took part in it. I was there too. Never had I seen
Bálványossi (I beg his pardon, Rengetegi) play his part in so masterly a manner
as on that evening. He was the gipsy leader who, with three others, fiddled his
way right through every hostile camp. And what amusing adventures befell him on
the road! I believe he laid under contribution every book of gipsy anecdote that
was ever published. And when he came to that ghastly scene with the wolves--that
was indeed a drastic description. The reality was nothing like so horrible as
his account of it. The ladies swooned, the men were horror-stricken, only I was
inclined to laugh. And when the guerillas turned up, how valiant my Rengetegi
became all at once! He took horse and started off in pursuit of the cuirassiers.
(To him they were cuirassiers!) It would have been beneath his dignity to have
chased mere hussars.... By way of climax came the splendid description of how he
cut his way through the besieging host. In the dark night, amidst a blinding
blackness of midnight snow-storm, he cut his way on horseback through the
Austrian foreposts, leaping over trenches and earth-works, with the bullets
skimming about his ears right and left. His horse was shot dead beneath him, but
ever equal to the occasion, he hastily fastened on his skates, and skated with
the rapidity of lightning over the frozen Zsitva and the Csiliz, and two other
rivers the names of which I never heard of before. Thus at last he reached the
fortress. Every one was enchanted with the narration. The ladies rose _en masse_
and kissed him, and improvised a laurel-wreath for his brows out of muscatel
leaves. "To save appearances, I also went up to him that I might condole with
and congratulate him upon all the exploits and sufferings he had gone through,
when all at once my friend turned quite stiff and rigid, gave me a cold bow,
pursed his lips, and turned up the whites of his eyes. "'Madame!' said he, 'I
have a word or two to say to you also. Where were you, may I ask, while I was
jeopardizing my life a hundred times every day for my country? Can you tell me
how you were occupying your days all this while?' "I was confounded. Language
died away on my lips. The blood rushed to my face. I felt that every one was now
looking at me. Naturally nobody in Comorn had seen me all this time. "'If what
the world whispers turns out to be true, and you have in the meantime been to
Vienna--but no! I will not believe it.' "His magnanimity offended me even more
than his indictment. "'What is it to you whence I come or whither I go?' I
replied, turning my back upon him and beginning to talk to the young officers,
like one who has nothing to be ashamed of. "Shortly afterwards I quitted the
banqueting-room. I hadn't reached the end of the long pavilion corridor in the
fortress when Rengetegi came running after me. "'What on earth possessed you to
calumniate and accuse me before the whole company,' I said to him, 'just as if I
were a traitor, or I don't know what?' "'Tsitt! Zenobia, my Queen. Let us
understand each other. It was in your own interest that I had to feign jealousy
and rage. Let us go into my room and I'll explain everything.' "When we were
alone together he locked the door and then explained things nicely. "'It
concerns your money.' "'Aha!' "'Amidst all this laudation, appreciation, and
ovation, and all the other flummery, I did not lose sight of the _main chance_.
I told the Governor privately that if he wished to reward me in any way, he
might do me the favour not to give to the flames the property deposited in the
bank to the credit of the damsel who was so near to my heart, but allow me to
bring it back to her. The austere patriot was as inexorable as Brutus. "Never!"
said he. "We will burn what we have laid hands upon, even though it were the
property of my own father. We can make no exception. What would those poor
devils say whose paltry ten or twenty florins we surrender to the flames of the
_auto-da-fé_ if we allowed the forty or fifty thousand florins of the rich to
fly away? Burn they shall!" This he said with a very wrathful voice. Then he
added in a milder tone: "However, I'll confide the burning of them to you."'
"Now I began to understand. "'A quarrel between us therefore has become an
absolute necessity. We must fly into a rage with each other. The _auto-da-fé_
will take place in a couple of days. The bonfire will be in the centre of the
public square. I shall throw the bundles of bank-notes one by one among the
spluttering faggots. You must be close by the booths of the bread-sellers, and
break out into curses. You remember the cursing scene from _Deborah_? Very well,
it may be useful. After the _auto-da-fé_ there must be a lively scene between
us. We must cast our mutual souvenirs at each other's feet. I'll throw at you
the embroidered cushion which you worked for my birthday, and inside it will be
the money belonging to you and your mamma which I have rescued. Then be off as
quick as you can to Vienna.' "'But how about the packet that you have to burn?'
"'Leave that to me; a few copies of the _Comorn News_ will give every bit as
brisk a flame.' "Everything happened according to his instructions. I saved our
property, and you must admit that my friend and I displayed considerable
prudence on this occasion. We did nobody any wrong: I only recovered what was my
own. "Then we fell out together publicly, as preconcerted. My friend Rengetegi
played Othello in a masterly manner. Then as our acquaintances could not succeed
in reconciling us, we solemnly separated and I went back to Vienna. "On the way
back I again fell in with the Austrian major. I showed him the money I brought
with me, naturally without letting him know how I came by it. He became so
friendly as even to entrust me with a letter to an old acquaintance of his in
Vienna, who was none other than my mother's colonel....

"You may imagine the friendly reception which awaited me when I returned to
Vienna and gave my mother her money. She folded me in her arms, covered me with
kisses, bedewed me with tears, and called me her darling child. What still
remained to me of my patrimony, about 40,000 florins, I placed in the Vienna
savings-bank. The rest of my dower was in the hands of Muki Bagotay, with the
exception of what we spent while we lived together. This also I contrived to get
back again--but how? "In the spring, when the fortune of the war changed, Comorn
was relieved, and I hastened off home again. I told my mother that I was
urgently bent upon building up again our burnt house--only the roof had been
burnt off, the walls remained standing. She approved of my resolution, and was
very proud of having such a sensible and enterprising daughter. I immediately
set about rebuilding our house, taking advantage of the time which elapsed from
the raising of the first to the beginning of the second siege. During my stay at
Vienna I moved continually in military circles, and I saw quite plainly what was
coming. But why reopen my wounds? All my illusions were over. I had learnt to
know my hero at close quarters, behind the scenes, I might say. This 'lord of
creation' used to whine before his tailor for a respite with his account till
next pay-day, and immediately afterwards would ascend his triumphal car drawn by
captive kings and declaim to the populace of conquered Constantinople. But in
one particular thing Major Rengetegi really extorted my admiration, I mean by
his strategical science." "Ah!" cried I. "You may well say 'ah!' I have read the
campaigns of Napoleon I., I have read the campaigns of Charles XII., but in none
of them could I discover so many ruses of war as my hero invented in order to
triumphantly solve the problem--how a man in his capacity of superior officer
may constantly be taking part in the most ticklish skirmishes without allowing
his person to get into the way of any wandering bullet. He always knew how to
hit upon some mission whereby he might manage to skedaddle out of danger. And if
I now and then fluttered the red rag of _self-esteem_ before his eyes, he would
reply: 'I have duties towards art; if they shoot away half my leg, how shall I
be able to act on the stage again?' Yet, when the battle was over, who so great
a hero as he! Others only mowed down the enemy, he thrashed them afterwards with
a flail. 'Tis a dreadful thing when a woman discovers that her hero is a
habitual liar, lying with the fiery burning conviction that no man will dare to
doubt him, so that she has to make him swear to the truth of every word he
utters. "Meanwhile, I continued my house-building. Every sort of building
material was very dear, and there was plenty of money too. Whence did all this
money come? I'll tell you. The Russian hosts had already invaded the kingdom.
The speculator-species perceived that the national cause was declining. The
Hungarian armies were everywhere falling back. Then Klapka, by a brilliant
victory, raised the second siege of Comorn and was within an ace of capturing
the besieging host. The region was instantly alive with people, and a whole
series of triumphs followed one after another. And now there flocked to Comorn
from every part of the kingdom quite a tribe of panic-stricken speculators and
jobbers, with bags full of Hungarian bank-notes, and bought everything that was
for sale, at whatever price the sellers liked to ask. My Muki also took
advantage of this lucky period to regulate his finances. He sold his herds at
four times their real value, and paid the price, in Hungarian bank-notes, into
the deposit bank at Comorn. It was my dowry paid back, he said. The bank
hastened to place the amount in my hands; and I hastened to satisfy therewith my
architects and builders, who did not let the money stick to their hands.
"Doesn't this remind you of the round game we used to play as children, when we
lit a straw, and, sitting in a circle, passed it round from hand to hand;
whoever was the last to hold it till the fire burned his hands, him we used to
thump unmercifully--that was the forfeit? Just such a burning straw was the
dowry paid back to me by my husband. The roof of my father's house was the straw
end which remained in my hands. The amount which I deposited in the Vienna bank
is all I have left in the world--except Tihamér Rengetegi. But not even he has
remained mine, for he has changed into Bálványossi. And now here we are
together. The playing of a common part unites us. From morn to eve every word we
say to one another is a lie. It is not even true that any one is pursuing
Rengetegi, for at the capitulation of Comorn he received his safe-conduct which
guarantees his life and liberty. That is not what distresses him. But he wishes
to deny the whole part he played during the Revolution, that as Bálványossi, the
theatre-director, he may get the necessary concession. He is continually urging
me to go to Miskolcz to the Government Commissioner and settle the business for
him." "I understand." "No, you don't. It is none of those interventions which we
see in romances and dramas, when a pretty woman goes to move a mighty tyrant
with her tears, and sacrifice her charms to him as the price of the life and
liberty of her persecuted husband. Oh no! my hero is no plagiarist! His ideas
are all original. He wants me to go to the mighty gentleman and tell him that
the Debreczin expedition, which has given rise to the whole of this heroic poem,
is not his '_crime_,' but mine. I was the gipsy leader who played before the Ban
Jellachich, and then escaped. It was I who carried the despatch to the Hungarian
Government. In a word: I am to sacrifice myself on his account!" "Fie! fie! And
still you love this man!" "What am I to do? I have nobody but him in the wide
world; and besides, he is such a droll, amusing character. All day long we are
either fighting or frolicking, and it is this variation which makes life so
charming." But for all that, she flung herself on the ground and hid her face in
the green moss. She was in such a good humour! "Sha'n't we give our friend a
signal to come out of his hole?" "He is quite comfortable--don't disturb him."
"I wonder you don't hit upon the very obvious idea of putting an end to this
pantomimic game of hide and seek. You have a foreign passport. You could enter
your friend in it under some such description as major-domo or travelling
companion. You could take him with you to Naples or to Paris, and you could live
without care on the interest of the fund deposited at the Vienna bank." "I know
that." "Then why not do it?" "Because I don't choose." And as she said this she
looked strangely at me with her enigmatically mysterious eyes, in which heaven
and hell were blended together like starlight in darkness! CHAPTER XIV

THE DEMON'S BAIT

I said in the last chapter that the lady was looking straight into my eyes with
the glance of Circe. Then she shrugged her shoulders, flung herself down beside
the fire-ashes, and began to blow the cinders so as to entice a flame from the
smouldering embers. "It's useless to give advice to me, for I always do exactly
the contrary. Let us rather have a chat together. What is your fate, now?" "The
fate of the grub when it is in its chrysalis." "Then it was not without cause
that I went to you that evening when you shut your door in my face? And yet I
only said what I did because I feared that either the gibbet or suicide awaited
you on the path you chose to take." Here her voice trembled, her chin, her lips
twitched convulsively, and her eyes filled with tears. A lady in tears is
dangerous! I did _not_ hasten to dry her tears. On the contrary, I replied with
cool cynicism:

"Every career has its own peculiar _maleficium_--drowning awaits the sailor,
shooting the soldier; the doctor may fall a victim to an epidemic; the glass-
maker suffers from caries; choke-damp kills the miner; and he who meddles with
politics runs a chance of being hanged or guillotined." "No, no! They shall not
do it!" she cried hoarsely, seizing my hand in both her own. "I do not want them
to do it," I said, "and that is why I am hiding myself here at the back of
beyond." "But how long is this to go on? What future do you see before you?"
"For the present I am like the convalescent beggar whose promenading does not go
beyond the house-door. I thought of beginning a little farming in this valley
and forgetting all my dreams of glory. I shall become an agriculturist." "Very
nice! And your wife?" "She will join me." "And you seriously think so? You think
she'll come and settle down with you in a hut with a clay floor and a straw
roof, like the one you are living in now." "It's a palace compared with what we
lived in in our Debreczin days. When my wife did the cooking--for we had no
servant--we loved each other better than ever. In a little house loving hearts
are nearer to each other than in a large palace." "It was possible then, no
doubt. I have experienced the same thing. But this is quite different. When a
man has such brilliant hopes, want is no affliction. It will be over soon, he
thinks. But to enter upon misery with the knowledge that it will last till
death, is beyond the power of resignation. And particularly with a woman!
Believe me, I know my own sex. Your wife, who now stands at the summit of her
artistic fame, cannot quit her brilliant career. No! If you were an angel she
could not." I could not defend my point of view against her. Stern reality was
on her side; on my side were only faith and imagination. "I believe in my wife's
promise to deliver me out of my difficult position." "I can't imagine how. She
cannot do what I can do for Bálványossi--in other words, accuse herself and say:
'It was not he who proclaimed freedom on March 15th. It was not he who wrote
those heart-stirring articles to the nation. It was not he who edited those
newspapers; not he who went to battle with the armies; not he who inspired the
Honveds at the siege of Buda: but I.' Your wife cannot take your fault on her
shoulders." I couldn't help laughing. "I would not let her." "But let us suppose
that a great _artiste_, a renowned beauty, might perhaps manage by some means or
other to procure an amnesty for her hidden husband" (and as she said this she
discharged murderous, envenomed darts at me from the corners of her eyes), "what
will be your subsequent lot when you return to Pest as a rebel amnestied at the
intercession of his wife? The earth and the sky which you used to adore have
vanished. No poet, no newspaper, no publisher: what will you do? Will you enter
a lawyer's office again to copy deeds, issue summonses, and serve writs at so
much a day? Or will you translate comedies (under official protection) at fifty
florins each for the National Theatre; or paint fashionable portraits of
butchers' wives at five florins apiece? Or, perhaps, you'll do nothing at all,
but live simply under the wing of your wife as 'the actress's husband,' and see
a woman bending beneath the load of sustaining a household--accomplishing the
most exhausting work; coming home after her day's acting is over, tired to
death, excited, unstrung. See her, poorly though she be, hurry from one
provincial town to another, acting uncongenial parts, so as to scrape together a
little money wherewith to satisfy the Jews with whom she has to haggle for the
material for her costumes. And the husband must look on at all this with his
arms folded, or, if he does anything at all, may perhaps paint the flowers for
her costumes, which she herself will then sew on with her own hands." "It will
not last for ever--other times will come." "Other times! You think other times
will come, eh? Now, that is what I fear most of all. I know you well. You are
not the sort of man who can content himself with the thought--what is past is
over! You will never forget what you used to be, still less what you meant to
be. The glory of fame is not forgotten as easily as a pawned jewel. You will
again fall into those straits from which you have been set free." And the woman
saw right into my soul. My face is so maladroit that it never could keep a
secret. You can read my features like an open book. When I am frightened, it is
vain for me to pretend that I am plucky. When I'm in a rage, it is useless for
me to affect calmness--nobody is taken in by it. I cannot even haggle over a
bargain properly, people can read from my face what I have to give. This woman
could see where my soul was wandering in secret, far, far away, in a gloriously
arisen Hungary of the future. And she regarded this talk of turning farmer as
little more than the incoherent delirium of a fevered visionary. "Let it be as
you say," I said.... "If I live I will build a tower out of the ruins of my
country's glory; if I die, my grave will become an altar. Vainly does this
coward flesh of mine tremble in every nerve. I am neither a hero nor a giant.
The report of a gun makes me tremble; I grow pale in the presence of death;
grief draws tears from me--but I will not depart from my set path. If I cannot
write under my own name, I will write under the name of my landlord's dog. I
will be 'Sajó. '[87] We'll bark if we can't speak, but we'll not be silent."
[Footnote 87: My works "_Forradalmi és csatakepek_," "_Bujdosó naplója_" were
written under the pseudonym _Sajó_.--JÓKAI.] The lady, in terror, seized me by
both arms. "For Heaven's sake, take care! A step backwards, and you'll fall over
the rock." "But I don't mean to take a step backwards." "Listen to me quietly.
Don't fly into a rage. Sit down beside me. You need have no great fear of me. I
am not a luring demon. I have not a word to say against what you've said. Do
whatever your soul bids you. I ask for nothing more. Don't you believe that I've
a good heart also?" "I believe that you've a little too much heart." "Perhaps
all that my heart led me to do was sinful. I was mad. I was blind. Passion got
hold of me; but the feeling I had for you would not have been out of place in
heaven itself. When I am alone, I am always with you; and when I think of
anything I think of you. I wish you to go onwards and upwards along the rugged
path that you have entered upon; but can you do it here, with a leaden weight on
your feet, a padlock on your mouth, and a strait jacket on your body?" "'Tis
because it _is_ heavy that I must needs carry my burden." "But how much more
brilliant would be the success of your struggle if you could continue it on a
foreign soil--in free France, for instance! Just think! If you were now to
appear in Paris, the leaders of the French literature would receive you with
open arms. The French public would enrol you among its great writers, and then
you might write of the glory, the sufferings, and the heroic struggles of
Hungary, and of the amiable qualities of its people; you might write all this
with perfect freedom, from the very bottom of your heart, and millions and
millions, the whole round world, would read your writings, and not merely a
handful of people, as here at home. There you would be a rich man, here you are
only a day-labourer. Here you might sing like a Tyrtæus, and the world outside
would hear nothing of it; but if you raised your voice abroad in the midst of a
great nation and a cosmopolitan capital, your voice would be like the horns of
Joshua before the walls of Jericho." Ah! how luring was the panorama.... To
become a great French writer! To be raised aloft on the shoulders of the most
glorious of nations! What here at home was but the crack of a whip in my hands,
would there be a thunderbolt! "But it is impossible," I objected. "How could I
possibly force my way to the frontiers of France from the depths of Tordona,
through my own country, through Austria, through Germany, without a passport,
without money, in a semi-Asiatic garb? Just as well might I cast myself down
from the mountain-top in the belief that I could fly." "Well, come now, I have a
very good plan to suggest to you. I've got an English passport. Have I not told
you exactly how I got it? None besides yourself knows that I have it, except, of
course, the officials who have _viséd_ it on the way. In this passport the blank
for my travelling companion has not yet been filled up. You asked me just now
why I did not insert the name and description of Bálványossi. Now, I'll tell
you. Nobody is pursuing him. I always intended to fill up that blank with your
name. You won't have to sacrifice much beyond that little moustache and beard of
yours, and resigning yourself to speak nothing abroad but French and German. I
appoint you my secretary. I myself am an English lady. We mustn't go _viâ_
Vienna. But the way is clear in the direction of Breslau. I have quite enough
money for us both. I still retain the hundred ducats which I received at
Debreczin. We shall do sumptuously with this till we get to Paris. My capital in
the Vienna bank I can leave where it is, or I may have it sent after me, and the
interest from it will suffice for your modest needs at the beginning of your
residence at Paris, so that you will not have to resort to the emigrants' fund.
When once you have won a position for yourself in Continental literature you
will need no further assistance from anybody. You will be able to refund to me
what I advanced to you as a loan. Only as a loan remember, not as a gift; still
less do I expect anything in exchange, not even a warm pressure of the hand. I
am simply your proselyte whose mission it is to make straight the way of the
prophet." It was a seductive picture, and still more seductive was she who
presented it to me. To be free! To be able to pronounce my name boldly in the
face of every one who met me! Not to tremble at the pattering of every footstep
at my door! To fight for great ideas in the company of great and noble minds!
And how her _eyes_ sparkled as she said these words, like the parhelia in the
glowing girdle of a solar halo! And her face was as open as a child's. I could
have sworn that she was an artless virgin opening her heart for the first time
to a true sentiment. Her hands were folded as if in prayer. Had I wavered but a
hair's-breadth, I must have plunged down into the abyss. Ah! what a different
man I should have become. Had I fled with her, I should now be the grand master
of the Realists, for there is as much erotic flame, satiric vein, and luxurious
fancy in me as in them; but I have not used these qualities, because I write for
a Hungarian public. Had I flown with her, millions would have read my works, and
fathers and mothers would have cursed me as the corrupter of their children. And
I should have laughed at them, and tapped the fat paunch, which as an idealistic
writer I have never been able to acquire. And whither would this reinless,
bridleless passion have hurried me had I been swayed by such a fascinating
Calypso, whose every movement was a charm, whose every word was a snare, who was
herself the personified joy of a Mohammedan paradise? For, remember, I was then
only four-and-twenty! Fortunately, a sober thought still remained in my head. "I
mean to remain in my own land," I said abruptly. "Why?" "I will not forsake
those who arose at my word. If they lie on the earth, I also will lie down
beside them. I will take my share of the suffering of which I was the cause."
"You won't remain out in the cold for ever, of course. Haven't you, then, the
hope that those who have sought refuge abroad will one day return in triumph?
Then you also will return home at the head of the reprieved." Even this weapon
she managed to turn against me! Oh, what a weak coat of mail it was that
defended me--only a single word! "I have given my word that I'll not depart from
hence," I said softly. "To whom?" "To her who gave me her word that she would
come and seek me here." "Your wife?" "Yes." "And if she seeks you, what then?"
"She will bring me liberty." "How? In what way?" "I don't know." "You don't
know, and yet you believe?" "I believe with my whole heart." "And you never
think what may be the price of such freedom?" "I spurn such a thought as often
as it arises." "You believe in a woman's loyalty, a woman's virtue?" "I do."
"Then you are a very happy man!" During this conversation I continued my
drawing, and she called my attention to several objects in the landscape which
had escaped me. Shortly after that she began a very ordinary conversation about
the weather. "Look! the prophecy of the old forester is well-nigh fulfilled. The
sky is quite overcast. The snowstorm will surprise us here." "Then, perhaps, it
may be as well to call our friend out of his hiding-place?" "Oh, that will be
very easy! I need only give him one signal. He himself selected it from the
romance 'Ivanhoe'--the note of the hero's horn--'Wasa hóa!' At this signal he
will appear immediately." "Well, I can scarcely see to sketch any more, it is so
dark." "Then you are determined to go to that little village down there?" "Yes."
"No news from the world will ever penetrate thither." "That will be all the
better for me." "You have heard nothing of what is going on outside all this
time, I suppose?" "Nothing pleasant." "It is a dreadful world. How would the
women manage to live if they couldn't chatter?" "They could sew their children's
clothes." "Perhaps you haven't heard that Petöfi's widow has married again?" Ah,
that was indeed a murderous thrust! A calculated, well-aimed, poisonous dart
where there was a weak joint in my coat of mail. "What do you say?" cried I, in
a perfect passion. "It is a fact known to everybody." "Petöfi's wife! Then what
has become of Petöfi?" "He fell at the battle of Segesvár." "Who saw him fall?"
"A Honved officer who testified to the fact. This was quite enough for his
widow. She immediately went to the altar with another young writer, who was not
perhaps such a knightly hero as your friend, but who is a pleasant young man in
a good official position, moving in the best society, and who is able to assure
his wife a comfortable existence." Every one of this woman's words went right
through my heart. Now, indeed, after years have elapsed, I can say that poor
Julia did well to confide her fate to a good and worthy man. She had a child,
and had duties towards that child. But at that moment a heavier blow could not
have descended upon my head. The death of our martyrs, let it be never so cruel,
was not nearly such terrible news to me as the news that the martyrs had been
forgotten. That any woman could ever forget Petöfi! The woman whom the poet had
encompassed with the rays of his soul of flame! That the poet should be able to
make himself immortal to the whole world and not to her whom he had worshipped!
No doubt the widow was right, she will be blessed in the next world, and there
Petöfi himself will justify her--the righteous are always just; but to me this
news seemed to open the very gates of hell. If the grass can grow so quickly
over my overthrown idol, what am I, I should like to know? A frog enclosed in a
tree, whose calling it is to live for a hundred years--beneath the bark! "I
won't believe it! I won't believe it! I won't believe it!" She laughed at me.
"Now wriggle away!" she seemed to say. From the crown of my head to the heel of
my foot I was full of bitterness. If such a thing as this could happen, why
shouldn't that other thing happen, too? Why shouldn't another fallen writer
forget the promise he had made to his wife, seize the hand of his former ideal,
and fly away with her out into the world? That would be tit for tat. Her two
eyes flamed as she looked at me and laughed. It was just as if she knew she had
wounded me and would fain stir me up to vengeance. She had destroyed my idol:
belief in a woman's heart. Women were all alike! "No, no, no! My wife is not
like other women." I sat down on the edge of the precipitous rock, made a
speaking-trumpet of the palms of both hands, and called loudly down into the
valley "Wasa hóa!" The echo repeated my words. And not long afterwards could be
heard from below the proud refrain:--

"Whom he meets upon his way     Him he cruelly doth slay;     But if a pretty
girl draw near,     Ah, then what gayer cavalier! Tremble and quake ye tongues
that lie,     And speak his name all whisp'ringly:         Diavolo, diavolo,
diavolo!" As the song drew nearer, I packed up my traps and clasped my stick all
ready to say good-bye. "Forget what we have been speaking about!" I said this.
"Have we been speaking about anything, then? I didn't know!" replied the lady
with the eyes like the sea. "Adieu!" "Adieu!" I was quite persuaded that we
should never meet again. I did not wait till my friend had climbed up again out
of his hole. They would easily find one another. The snow had already begun to
fall in thick flakes. I set off homewards. The snowstorm drove full against me
as I proceeded. I had very nearly lost myself in the forest. The evening had
fallen early; by the time I had descended from the hill it was quite dark. But
still darker was what I carried with me in my brain--the black thought that
there was now no such thing as love or loving remembrance in the world. Where we
fall, there we lie, and none cares. Some of us die, and there is none to mourn
us; the rest of us remain alive, and mourn over ourselves. How fair is the fate
of a fallen tree. There it lies, and the ground-ivy covers it. If the wild
beasts were to tear me to pieces now, nobody would know where I had perished. At
last I stumbled upon the linden spring. This was a good guide. The stream flows
right along beside the house of the Csányis; one can get home by keeping near
its banks, even in the dark. My soul blamed me for having passed so much time by
the Pagan Altar with that "other" woman. The snow now completely covered the
fields, and through it in serpentine flight darted the threefold stream. The
autumn leaves were still on the trees, their crowns bent down beneath loads of
snow. The whole landscape was sombre, but it was not more sombre than my soul.
Suddenly, like a ray of hope, the window-light of the little house in which I
was lodging flashed out before me. It stood at the end of the village, and was
the last house of all. I was utterly wearied both in body and soul when I
arrived at last at the little dwelling. It had neither courtyard nor enclosure.
It stood right out upon the road. The carts and ploughs stood there beneath a
shed. There are no thieves here. The door of the house is never bolted, and it
opens out upon a little passage. On the right-hand side of this passage lie
kitchen and store-room; on the left the living-rooms, and a side chamber, which
served me as a bedroom, and the rest of the family as a sort of withdrawing-
room. It is the only room in the house which has a deal floor, all the other
floors are of clay. The kitchen door was also open, and a large fire was blazing
on the open hearth. My hostess with her serving-maid was busy baking and
boiling. When I bade her good evening, she glanced at me with a roguish smile.
"Ei, ei! A nice time to come home, I must say! But go into the room--supper will
be ready presently." I went into the room. By the lighted stove sat my wife!
Rapturous joy drove every other thought out of my soul. I don't know what I
said. I wouldn't believe she was there till I had caught her in my arms and
embraced her tightly. 'Tis true, 'tis true, 'tis true--loyalty, love, sweet
remembrance still belong to this world! She told me afterwards--very briefly--
how ill she had been. She had wanted to come before, but couldn't; as it was,
she had left Pest by stealth, and had come with a passport made out under a
false name. She had suffered much on the way. She had gone astray in the
snowstorm in the beech woods, and it had been as much as she could do to find
her way again. She had been terrified by the wolves, whose howls even now
resounded from the woods. And all the while I suffered the mental torture of a
man who hears the person who _is_ talking to him and the person who _has been_
talking to him at the same time. I saw the one figure and I saw the other also.
Our good host, worthy Beno Csányi, as he sat by the table, kept on mumbling in
his beard: "That's something like a woman--that _is_ a wife, if you like!" Well,
now that we are both together again, what does it all matter? Yes, but how long
shall we be together again? My wife must go back the day after to-morrow. Only
grudgingly had the director of the theatre allowed her a four days' leave. On
the fifth day she must play. But my captivity was soon to draw to a close. My
wife took a carefully concealed piece of paper from her breast; it was a tiny
little grey schedule, but that little schedule was in those days a great
treasure. It was the guarantee of my liberation--a Comorn passport. It was a
very simple method of deliverance, as simple as the egg of Columbus. When the
fortress of Comorn capitulated, each of the officers of the garrison there
received a passport which guaranteed his life and liberty, and also dispensed
him from enrolment in the Austrian army. My wife managed to procure me such a
passport in the simplest way in the world. There was a brother of Szigligeti's
in the Comorn garrison, Vincent Szathmary (Szathmary was their family name), who
wrote my name down in the list of the capitulating officers as a Honved
lieutenant, and handed the passport bearing my name to my wife. This was the
reason why I was obliged to remain in concealment in the meantime. Thus my dove
had brought me two leaves of the olive-branch, namely, life and liberty; but how
about the third? I had still to wait for that. I was not free to come forth till
I got it. I should have to wait till she came back for me a second time. I no
longer ran any risk of being condemned, but I might still run the risk of being
interned at my native place, Comorn, and that would have been a fresh torment
for me. Then my wife asked me: "Have you been thinking of me also all this
time?" And if I had not been able to answer, "Always of thee!" and if, while
saying this, I had not been able to look her honestly in the face, she would
have been amply justified in tearing the passport to pieces and flinging the
fragments in my face. CHAPTER XV

MARVELS NOT TO BE SEEN FOR MONEY

It was now four years since I had made friends with the beech woods. For two
years I was "Sajó," but after that I was again able to practise the art of
letters in my own name. My wife and I saw nobody, and nobody came to see us. We
had both of us quite enough to do without paying visits. My wife was an actress,
and I an author. And let nobody suppose that actresses and authors live in the
land of Cockaigne. [88] Both have very hard work to do, and rest is their
dearest recreation. [Footnote 88: Lit., a sky full of fiddles.] Unfortunately I
was engaged in publishing and editing. Nominally, indeed, the director of the
National Theatre was the responsible editor and publisher of the belle-
lettristic and artistic journal _Délibab_, for my name was still under police
supervision; but, in reality, I wrote and edited the whole paper, corrected the
proofs, and folded up, directed, and despatched the copies of it to the
subscribers--and got into trouble for it besides. My only assistant was a
worthy, semi-rustic, very pronounced Hungarian lad, called Coloman Iglódi, who
had served as lieutenant under the banner of the red-capped Honveds in our
Utopian days. [89] At the battle of Tarczal he had received three bullets, one
in the face, the second in the arm, and the third in the leg, and these wounds
he had to thank for his dismissal as a genuine invalid. So he joined me as
messenger, secretary, and door-keeper, and a worthy, honest fellow he was.
[Footnote 89: _i.e._, during the war.] One afternoon "clerk Coloman" (that was
his familiar epithet) opened the door of my working-room. "I beg pardon, sir,"
said he, "but a cuirassier is here." "What sort of a cuirassier?" "A senior
lieutenant." "What does he want with me, I wonder?" In the fifties the visit of
an officer was tantamount to a challenge. Those were the days of the famous
political duels in which Coloman Tisza,[90] Julius Szapary,[91] and Francis
Beniczky fought with the delegated officers. [Footnote 90: The late Prime
Minister of Hungary and leader of the Liberal party there.] [Footnote 91: The
present Prime Minister.--Since this note was written, Szapary has given way to
Weckerle.] "Admit him!" "Call me, please, if necessary," said clerk Coloman
confidentially, making at the same time a significant movement with the paper-
knife. Then the visitor entered. In figure he was half a head taller than me at
the very least. He was a strong, broad-shouldered fellow. His bony face wore
quite a stony expression by reason of a powerful eagle nose and a broad double
chin. On the other hand this sternness was somewhat contradicted by a pair of
honest, bright-blue eyes, a little mouth, and offensively light hair, though his
eyebrows, moustache, and whiskers were even lighter. My visitor, as he advanced
from my door to my writing-table, took those three short mazurka steps which,
with men, are generally the preliminaries to a military salute; he held, close
pressed to his thigh, his beautiful helmet, with the golden lions and the black-
yellow plumes; and when he stood in front of me, he clashed his spurs together
and introduced himself in Hungarian. "I am Wenceslaus Kvatopil, senior
lieutenant of dragoons." He had the peculiar habit of accompanying every word
with an explanatory movement of his hand, so that a stone-deaf person could have
understood perfectly what he meant. The deprecatory movement of his hand meant--
Wenceslaus Kvatopil; the indication of the twin stars on his collar meant that
he was a lieutenant; the slight elevation of his helmet signified that he was a
dragoon, and the simultaneous sweep of the hand towards his breast gave me to
understand that he was _not_ a cuirassier. "I am glad to see you," I said; "how
can I be of service?" "I should like to have a long conversation with you, sir,
if you will let me." At this I would have offered him a chair, but on no account
in the world would he suffer me to do so, but helped himself to one, and then
once more apologised for the trouble he was giving before he sat down opposite
to me. I begged him to address me in German, as I was quite capable of making
myself understood in that tongue. "No! no! En _akarom_ magyariul
beszélni"[92]--and at the same time he made as though he were ducking the head
of a refractory urchin in a basin of soapsuds. [Footnote 92: "I want to talk in
Hungarian."] "_Akarok_," I good-humouredly corrected him. "No! no! _Akarok_ is
the _indefinite_ mood, _akarom the definite_ mood; and I want to speak Hungarian
_definitely_." I was forced to acknowledge to myself that his logic was stronger
than his grammar. "I was born in Leutomischl"[93]--here he let his head fall
regretfully on his breast. [Footnote 93: A Bohemian town. He meant by this that
he belonged to Czech officials who had been forced upon Hungary.--TR.] I with
corresponding pantomime replied that that need not make any difference between
us. "My father was"--here with both hands he took aim with an imaginary gun. It
now occurred to me _why_ he made all these gestures. Such is often the way with
those who have taught themselves a foreign language without a master, and cannot
find quickly enough the word they want. I hastened to his assistance. "A
forester?" "Yes, a forester. He had sons"--he lifted up both hands, and then one
finger. "Eleven?" "Yes, eleven. I myself was"--he held the palm of his hand
quite low down towards the floor. "The youngest?" "Yes, the youngest." "My
father gave me"--here followed a very suggestive gesture. "Yes, a _very
rigorous_ education." "But it was all"--he lightly tapped the hollow of his
hand, as much as to say "No good!" "He wanted me to be"--he laid the palms of
his hands together as if in prayer. "A priest?" "Quite right! I wouldn't"--a
snap of the fingers, and then a lizard-like dart into the palm of the hand. "You
mean to say you took French leave of the Seminary?" At this we both laughed. The
gesture next following--a smack on the palm of the hand illustrated by a little
equitation on the back of a chair--gave me to understand that my visitor had
then become a soldier. "At four-and-twenty I was a lieutenant. I lay at Cracow
for two years. I served in the Hungarian war from beginning to end. I am now
thirty-four years old. And still I am only a lieutenant. Curious, isn't it?" I
agreed with him that it was certainly most surprising. "My other comrades--no,
not _comrades_, that's a French word." "_Bajtarsai?_"[94] I suggested. [Footnote
94: "Your comrades"--the Hungarian equivalent.] "Yes, of course! my other
_bajtarsai_ all became captains and majors, and have got decorations. I've
nothing! Nothing, I tell you! And I'm pretty plucky too. I'm a good horseman--
I've never given offence--I understand my duties. What do you think the cause
is?" I really was curious myself to know the cause of this misadventure. "All
through the war I was interned at Temesvar with my squadron. No occasion for
displaying valour. Cavalry behind trenches. My comrades all on the battle-field"
--he made a swift motion with his hand. "And fought bravely?" said I, completing
the sentence. "Yes, they fought bravely, whilst we horsemen besieged in the
fortress might"--here he put the tips of his thumbs between his teeth and puffed
out his cheeks. "Smoke your pipes?" I suggested. "Yes, we smoked our pipes."
Here we both gave way to merriment once more. Again I urged upon my visitor to
speak in German, and we could then perhaps get along more easily, but he only
replied, "_Muszaj!_"[95] Well, if he knows even that _Hungarian_ word, I
thought, he _must_ have his own way, that's all. [Footnote 95: A corruption of
the German _mussen_, but as used in Hungarian it expresses the most emphatic
necessity. When all other arguments fail, the word _muszaj_ is supposed to carry
everything before it.--TR.] "Yes, I _must_ speak Hungarian, by command of the
highest authority." "The highest?" With that he seized the lappets of my coat
with both hands. "Come, now! Do you know who is the greatest tyrant in the whole
world?" "Dionysius of Syracuse." "Ha! ha! ha! Young blood! 'Tis this!" --and
with his index finger he tapped himself between his fourth and fifth ribs on the
left-hand side. "The heart, eh?" "You're right. The heart. 'Tis the greatest
tyrant. _It_ commands me to speak Hungarian." "Then you are in love, eh?" A
gesture with the palm of his hand right up to the chin was the answer. "Up to
the neck, eh?" "No, over head and ears." "With a lovely Hungarian damsel?" He
raised his three fingers closely pressed together to his lips, which were
pointed as if to receive a kiss, thereby explaining that she was _very_ lovely.
Then he passed his extended palms softly over his face, then, joining them
together beneath his chin, affirmed, so far as I understood him, that she was
also young and charming. Then he pressed his waist with both hands, which meant
"slim as a lily stalk." After that he cracked his fingers right in front of his
eyes, which meant "What eyes!" Finally he crossed his arms, and immediately
afterwards disengaged them again. "In a word, a ravishing beauty," said I. "I
congratulate you!" "I think you may." "Your tender sentiment is naturally
reciprocated?" "Oho!" and he caught hold of the flat of his sword. "I did not
mean to insinuate the contrary," I said. "Naturally." Then he was silent, and
began to fumble about his stiff cravat. I saw that he wanted me to ask him some
more questions. "A maiden lady?" "Oh, no!" "Then a widow lady?" "Ah, no!" "Then
it can't be a lady at all?" "No, no! What are you thinking of?" "Then what is
she?" "A lady who has a husband, but yet is not a married lady." "Aha! A
_divorcée_?" "Yes." "Then the relations between you are quite legitimate." At
this, my lieutenant of dragoons rose from his chair and stood before me in quite
a magisterial position. I also stood up. "The lady desires you to be her ..."--
here the word he wanted would not occur to him. He raised the three first
fingers of his right hand above his head, like one who is taking an oath. I
guessed his meaning. "A witness to her marriage?" "No, not that. She used
another word." "Oh, she meant I was to give her away?" "Yes, that is it. How I
do forget!" "Then is the chosen of your heart an acquaintance of mine?"
"Naturally. If I were only to mention her first name you would remember at once.
Bessy!" "Ah, Bessy!" "How red you've got! You were in love with her once
yourself. I know! She told me. Well, will you give her away?" "With pleasure."
"Really?" "With all my heart." Then he caught hold of my hand with both his
hands; squeezed my hand violently, and his eyes grew quite tiny with sheer
rapture. I believed he would have liked to kiss me; but he had a big nose, and I
had a big nose, too, so we could not very well have managed it. "Then will you
allow me to bring in my bride?" "Whence?" "She is waiting outside." "Not on the
staircase?" "Yes, indeed. On the staircase. She won't come in till she's quite
sure you'll give her away. She's a bit shy." I immediately hastened to open the
door for my hesitating visitor. It really was Bessy. It was winter time just
then, and she had all sorts of furry garments upon her, and a furred cap on her
head; she looked just like a fair Muscovite. There really seemed to be some sort
of coquettish bashfulness in her face. I couldn't imagine why. I had seen her
face before under many similar circumstances, and after Muki Bagotay, Peter
Gyuricza, and Tihamér Rengetegi, Wenceslaus Kvatopil was decidedly an
improvement. The bridegroom remained in the room while I admitted the lady. Then
he first craved permission to kiss her hand, and then begged her pardon for
kissing it. After that there was absolutely no getting him to take a seat, but
he persisted in standing on one spot, leaning over the back of the arm-chair in
which his lady sat. "Have you grasped what my hero has told you?" inquired
Bessy, when she had got over her first embarrassment. "Just fancy! he has given
me his word as a gentleman that henceforth he'll never address a word to any
Hungarian except in the Hungarian language. And he tortures his Hungarian
orderly to death with it to begin with." "A most laudable resolve," I was
obliged to answer. "But now, first of all, let me explain to you why I ask you
to put yourself to the inconvenience of giving me away." I assured her that to
give her away was not an inconvenience, but a pleasure. "After our last meeting
you never anticipated, perhaps, that we should meet again in this life?" I
lifted my head and looked at her with amazement. "Oh! we can say anything before
_him_" (here she pointed at her bridegroom). "He's as nice and good a boy as
ever lived. I could twist him round my little finger if I liked. You can say
anything before him. You know my story, I think, up to the time when I had to go
into hiding with Bálványossi after the Revolution. I shouldn't like you to
imagine that I quitted that man from pure lightness of heart. Just fancy! he had
the impudence to commit that act of baseness which I mentioned to you: he told
the Imperial Commissioner the whole story of the conveying of those despatches,
cleared himself from the accusation of that heroic deed, and at the same time
denounced me. He justified himself to me on the ground that it was necessary to
'_purify_ himself,' in order that he might obtain a theatrical licence, and that
they would not _impute_ this little joke to me because I was a woman. But they
_did_ impute it! They arrested me, they imprisoned me, and they severely cross-
examined me. And I have to thank this worthy young fellow alone for getting off
scot-free. He took my part. But for him I should have had to pay most dearly for
my heroic exploit. Shouldn't I, Wenzy?" The lieutenant hinted, with a
deprecatory wave of his hand, that no more need be said about the matter. "Hence
our acquaintance began," continued the lady, "and this, perhaps, will justify me
in your eyes for selecting a foreigner, a foreign officer, as my _fiancé_. I had
very strong reasons, you must admit, for growing cold towards my former hero."
The fair lady did not appear to be satisfied with the impression that her eyes
had made upon me; at least, I had some reason to believe that the following
commentary was intended not so much for the delight of her bridegroom as for my
own edification. "Believe me (I am perfectly serious about it), I am not merely
grateful to Kvatopil because he has rescued me from my great difficulties, and,
what is more, from any further improprieties on the part of that Barabbas
Bálványossi;--no, I also esteem him as a noble nature worthy of all respect;
from the crown of his head to the tip of his toe he is full of the love of
truth, not even in jest would he tell a lie. He is valiant and strong-minded,
and at the same time affectionate and tender-hearted. A man of his word, in
fact, who does not lightly give his word either. A really model man." A pencil
was in my hand, and before me was a blank sheet of paper, and I involuntarily
scribbled on this piece of paper "Number 4." The lady grasped the import of my
hieroglyphic and shook her head, but she smiled a little too. "But he is not
like the others," she insisted; "he is the direct opposite of what _ladies' men_
think a man should be. It will sound incredible, I know, but it is the simple
fact that he has been my visitor these three years. He has come to see me nearly
every day during that period, and never has he permitted himself a single bold
advance or a single unbecoming expression. Every day I have to tell him, just as
if it were the first time, to take a seat, put down his helmet, and place his
sword in the corner, and our conversation has never gone beyond the criticism of
Schiller's verses." I was bound to admit that this was really an extraordinary
case. "I couldn't help rallying him about it," continued the lady; "you know
that I am not accustomed to a wooer who imitates the statue of Memnon; and then
Kvatopil confessed, with perfect simplicity, that he was _afraid_ of me. 'If I
were as timid on the battle-field,' said he, 'as I am in your presence, His
Majesty would only give me my deserts by dismissing me from his service.'" The
lieutenant signified by a nod of his head that his words had been correctly
reported. "Finally," continued Bessy, "I had to ask for his hand--hadn't I, my
friend?" The bridegroom replied that such had indeed been the case. "Even then
he was quite coy. He pleaded his humble rank. He begged time for consideration.
Now, didn't you?" "Yes, I did." "I had to remove his scruples one by one, till
at last I brought him to a definite declaration, and he said he would take me to
wife. Never have I met with such an officer before." Bessy read from my face the
expression, "Why bother me with all this?" I never asked about it, and I didn't
care a fig about her affairs. "Look now," continued she, in an almost
supplicating voice, "I don't tell you all these things to amuse you, but because
I have an earnest request to make of you." "So the lieutenant informed me." "I
don't mean about giving me away--that is _not_ a serious request. You would do
that to oblige any servant of yours. I have a much greater request than that to
make. I wish to ask you to be my guardian, my foster-father." "I? Your _foster-
father_?" "Don't put so much emphasis on the word _father_. You are four years
older than I am, remember." "What does a married woman want with a guardian?" "I
assume the case of a married woman who mismanages her property." "And do you
believe, then, that _I_ am such a great financier?" "I believe that you are my
sincere friend, anyhow. You are my only real friend in the round world who
neither asks nor expects anything for his kindness to me. I know it from
experience. You have heard, no doubt (and if you haven't heard, you might easily
have guessed it), that my relations have shaken me off. They deny that they ever
knew me. My mother has married again and removed to Prague. Every one in whom I
would confide tries to get something out of me--either money, or what is more
precious than money. Whosoever would attach himself to me is either a swindler,
or a seducer, or a parasite. As for myself, I am a stupid, credulous creature,
who will never have any brains to bless herself with. I need a strong hand over
me, some one to look after my material interests and save me from bankruptcy,
some one in whose good-will I may confide. I know very well I might find a more
_experienced_ guardian than you, even if I went no further than the civic
magistrates; but I could endure dictation from nobody--but you. Your dictation I
could put up with. For Heaven's sake do not let me perish!" I could not help
being sorry for her. I perceived also that she forbore to take my hand. Still,
it is a rather ticklish position to become the guardian of a pretty woman,
especially a pretty woman of this kind. "Very well, I don't mind. But let us
consider the whole business seriously. I suppose the lieutenant agrees to it?"
Wenceslaus Kvatopil assured me that he had no will of his own in the matter.
"Well, now, let us consider the merits of the case. Have you still got the money
which you deposited in the Vienna savings bank?" "Yes, and as soon as you are my
guardian, I mean to draw it out and deposit it in the bank at Pest." "So much
the better, it will be more convenient for the quarterly payments of interest.
And then, too, you will have to pay out of this amount the usual caution-money
required of every officer about to marry." "Yes, I know. Six thousand florins."
"Of course, you might also mortgage your father's house to this amount."
"Whichever you think best." "I think the latter way will be best, for I foresee
that you will get very little profit from your houses, and I want to save as
much of your ready money as possible." "_Save_, do you say?" cried Bessy,
opening her eyes very wide at this word. I scratched my head all over (I had
lots of hair to scratch in those days). It was my duty as guardian to express my
views with perfect candour. At last I found the requisite formula. "Look now, my
sweet ward Bessy, and you also, respected lieutenant, I have seen all sorts of
wonders in my lifetime. I have seen a one-legged ballet-dancer who could turn
the most difficult pirouettes; I have seen a painter without hands who painted
masterly pictures with his feet; I have seen a blind actor who played Hamlet
right to the very end. But what I never have seen yet is a cavalry officer
without debts." At this, the pair of them burst into a loud ha! ha! ha! "No,
no!" cried the bridegroom, "I am not such a wonder as that!" I now begged him,
since we had become so confidential, to be so good as to draw his chair close to
the table and put down his beautiful helmet with the black and yellow plumes and
go into figures. "How much do your debts amount to?" And a very pretty little
amount he made of it. The bridegroom could read from my face that I thought the
amount a trifle extravagant for a lieutenant; for that amount Bessy could have
got a major at least. He hastened to explain matters. "I did not incur this
large debt myself, the culprit was another lieutenant, a friend of mine, a rich
and distinguished young fellow. He got me to write my name to a bill as
guarantor of the amount. He was still a minor. I wrote my name, of course--what
did I know about it? Suddenly, when my young friend got over head and ears in
difficulties, he blew his brains out. His father refused to pay the bill, and so
I inherited it from his creditors. Since then I have been paying and paying, but
the debt, instead of diminishing, increases, and the terrible _boa conscriptor_
winds itself tighter and tighter round my body." A boa conscriptor indeed, was
this gigantic conscriptor[96] serpent! [Footnote 96: A translation of the
Hungarian word _Osszeiro_, which means a conscript or schedule of anything,
_here_ a schedule of debts.] At this we all three laughed again, which was
rather odd, for there was nothing at all to laugh at. The long and the short of
it all was that after discharging her lover's debts, and depositing the caution-
money, my ward Bessy still had twenty-five thousand florins left. "All right,"
said she, "that's just why I asked you to be my guardian, for if the money
remains in my hands, every bit of it will vanish by the end of the year." "I
wonder you've kept it so long." "The wonder is owing to the fact that my mother
inhibited the payment of the amount to me, and this embargo can only be removed
when I am married to a man of rank and honour." "You'll have to be very
economical in your housekeeping," I said, "not to exceed your income." "There's
Kvatopil's pay, too, and as a cavalry officer he is entitled to free unfurnished
quarters." "And you'll be able to put up with an officer's free quarters?" I
said. "You know very well that to such things" ... (I saw that she meant to say,
"I am used to such things," and I pulled a wry face. She rightly understood from
my pantomime that it would be scarcely _proper_ to mention the events of "Anno
Rengetegi" in the presence of her Royal and Imperial[97] bridegroom, so, with
theatrical _savoir-faire_, she passed in an instant from the impudent
nonchalance of a _vivandière_ to the tender cooing of a turtle-dove) ... "true
love is always ready to sacrifice itself." And with an enchanting smile she
extended her hand to her bridegroom, who raised it with tender enthusiasm to his
lips. They were just like turtle-doves. [Footnote 97: Royal as belonging to the
service of the King of Hungary, Imperial as serving the Emperor of Austria.]
"Eh, Wenzy?" "Yes, Eliza!" I felt no particular pleasure in this version of
Romeo and Juliet, indeed I was half-inclined to hiss the performers. "Before
giving you my paternal blessing, my dear children," said I, "I have one question
to ask you. Most honoured Mr. Lieutenant, as I understand that you were
originally intended for a priest, I presume that you are a Catholic?" "A Roman
Catholic, yes." "During the time you spent in the Seminary, then, have you not
so much as learnt that a Catholic is not free to marry a Calvinist woman whom
the civil tribunals have divorced from her husband; for, according to Catholic
dogma, marriage is a sacrament which the secular power cannot dissolve?" At this
the bridegroom looked very much amazed. "Neither of us thought of this
certainly." Bessy suddenly cast a basilisk look at me. Huh! what lightnings
flashed in those sea-like eyes! "Then how are we to get over that?" inquired the
bridegroom of me, with childlike helplessness. "Why, by your becoming a
Calvinist, I suppose." "A _Calvi_ ..." he was already outside the door when he
said the ... "_nist_!" He caught up his helmet and bolted without saying good-
bye to any one. Clerk Coloman told me afterwards he had never seen a dragoon in
such a hurry. Bessy he left behind on my hands. The young lady was in a terrible
rage. "It was pure malice on your part," cried she, "to do me out of my
bridegroom like that! What do you mean by it? To serve me such a nasty trick as
that!" I justified myself as best I could. "He would have had to know it sooner
or later. The priest would have refused to unite you." "You should have left
that to me. If once I had paid his debts, his honour as a gentleman would have
bound him to make this sacrifice for me; he could not have got out of it then."
I was forced to admit that I had acted very clumsily. I humbly begged her
pardon. I would never do it again. Her next bridegroom might be a Mohammedan,
for all that I cared. "You never could speak sensibly to me. No matter! I'll
bring Wenceslaus Kvatopil back here one of these days." And off she went in a
huff. This interruption had annoyed me. I had lots to do. I had to write the
addresses of our subscribers on the covers of the neatly folded newspapers. This
was not an ideal occupation, especially when one had to paste on the wrappers as
well, which it was also _my_ business to do. Some proof-sheets were also
awaiting me with a lot of printers' errors. It was a realization of the proverb,
"When the church is poor, the parson tolls the bell himself." In my leisure
hours, however--my time of repose--I went on with my romance, "A Hungarian
Nabob"; the idea of the principal character I had borrowed from a story of my
wife's. A couple of weeks elapsed. One evening, when I was hesitating whether I
should go and see about my oil-lamp myself, or wait till clerk Coloman returned
home from the post, or the chamber-maid from the theatre, whither she had gone
to carry my consort her costume in a basket, a violent ringing began outside. I
had to go and open the door myself. To my great surprise, I saw Bessy before me
with her lieutenant on her arm. Wenceslaus Kvatopil was bubbling over with
affability. "Here I am again, sir. They have arrested me, and put me in chains.
I must surrender." Yes, I thought, when the starving garrison is reduced to
horse-flesh. "The siege was vigorous. Such batteries. Look! Those eyes! Congreve
rockets are nothing in comparison. The star battery is already taken." "The
firing must have been terrible indeed." "And now I must ask you once more to be
my witness." "You mean your bride's witness?" "No, mine. First you must come
with me to the priest to inform him that I have renounced the Catholic faith."
"What, already?" "Yes, and from conviction." "Would you take a chair, please?"
"From absolute conviction." "Bessy is a more clever arguer than any missionary;
an energetic propagandist." "And if I were to be damned on the spot, if I were
to lose my hope of eternal salvation, I should be ready to sacrifice that also
for those dear, lovely eyes." "Come, come, Mr. Lieutenant," I said, "pray don't
talk so wildly." "But I mean what I say--I am ready to become a Mohammedan for
her sake." "I can quite believe it." "Then you will be my witness at the
priest's?" "Pardon me. 'Tis a serious matter. I honour my own religion as much
as other sects honour theirs, yet I am no proselytizer. Do you wish to become a
Calvinist from sincere conviction?" At this word he leaped furiously from his
seat. "A Calvinist? Certainly not! Heaven forbid!" "Then what do you want to
be?" "I want to be a Lutheran." "'Tis all one." "The devil it is! We at
Leutomischl hold the Calvinists to be infidels." "Your bride might have told
you, I think, that this is not true." At this, Bessy again intervened. She
implored me prettily not to deny her this little kindness. Kvatopil had only
consented to be converted because they have crosses in the Lutheran churches and
believe in the sacraments, so that by joining them a man does not risk losing
his heavenly hopes so much, and the Commander-in-chief would not be down upon
him so fiercely as if he were to go over to the Calvinist Kuruczes. [98] The end
of it all was that I, a Calvinist presbyter, had to introduce a newly-converted
soul into the Lutheran Church. [Footnote 98: _Kurucz_, a name originally given
to the Transylvanian insurgents under Francis Rákóczy; they were mostly
Protestants.--TR.] I really must have been a very good sort of fellow formerly,
that is to say, before my heart was hardened. At last every obstacle was
overcome. I consented to give away my ward, Wenceslaus Kvatopil's bride. Bessy
received from her excellent mother (who was now a general's wife) intimation
that she had withdrawn her sequestration from the money in the Vienna bank; the
caution-money was deposited, the boa conscriptors were satisfied, and nothing
hindered us from going to church. The marriage party, besides the bride and
bridegroom, consisted of two witnesses; the bridegroom's witness was a battalion
commander, a major who brought his wife with him. And here, perhaps, every one
will ask me why the wife of the _other_ witness was not there also? It is an
awkward question. I might, I know, summarily dispose of the whole matter by
saying that my wife had just gone, by special invitation, to act at Szabadka;
she had been invited, but could not come. But this answer, I know, is
unsatisfactory. I would, however, first of all, lay down this axiom: "An
honourable husband should give his wife _no occasion_ for jealousy; but neither
ought he to make her jealous _without occasion_." The sacred truth is that I had
never mentioned Bessy's name in my wife's hearing. ("Slipper-hero!") Did she
know of her? I don't know. She was much too proud to have ever shown it if she
did. I had Bessy's portrait, and it was in the drawer of my writing-table. It
was there even when I got married. And if it had found its way into any one's
hands, I could not have said that it was the portrait of my grandmother. But
this is what did happen. When the Russian armies broke into the kingdom, I,
foreseeing the end of the unequal struggle, shouldered my musket, tied on my
sword, fastened my knapsack round my neck, took leave of my wife, and went forth
to seek the camp of Görgey--on foot. On my way I met Paul Nyáry. "Whither away
so armed to the teeth, brother Maurice?" said he. "I am going to die for my
country," I replied, with tragic pathos. "And what have you got in your
knapsack?" "A ham." "Well, before dying for your country, let us have a bit of
that ham of yours together." With that he helped me up into his car, and in the
car beside him was already sitting Joseph Patay--two members of the Hungary
Government at Debreczin, in fact. I was curious enough to inquire whither we
were going, whereupon Nyáry replied:

"The dog that bolts to Szeged town     T'wards Buda lets his tail hang down.
"[99]

[Footnote 99: Buda and Szeged being in diametrically     opposite directions.]
Even with the danger of instant death hanging over his head, his bitter irony
never forsook him. So I went on with Nyáry to Szeged. A week afterwards my wife
followed me. Our house she had entrusted to poor old Dame Kovacs. The clever
comic actress had no need to fear the Cossacks. When, however, the Russians
occupied Buda-Pest, and the rigorous order was issued that all arms, uniforms,
and Hungarian bank-notes were to be given up, whilst every one in possession of
a prohibited object or a revolutionary proclamation was to be tried by court-
martial and shot, then indeed the good old dame ransacked all the drawers of my
writing-table, and crumpling up into a heap all she found there, including
Petöfi's correspondence, a letter of Klapka's, the whole of my diary which I had
written during the Revolution, with innumerable and invaluable data, pitched the
whole behind the fire, and so they disappeared. In this great _auto-da-fé_
Bessy's portrait was also reduced to ashes. I therefore have my suspicions that
something was known about it, but nothing was ever said to me on the subject. So
that, you see, was why _only I_ was present at Bessy's wedding. The rendezvous
took place in her apartments. Here I had the opportunity of making the
acquaintance of my fellow-witness, the major of dragoons, and a very genial man
he was. He was a good copy of a genuine Hungarian lord-lieutenant of a county.
Nothing but cordial hilarity and jovial merriment, you would never have taken
him for a soldier, least of all for an Austrian soldier. He blackguarded the
"Bach[100]-hussars," but had nothing but praise for the Hungarians. He had not
been shut up in Temesvar like the lieutenant, but had been fighting in Italy,
and had only just come hither. He had the habit of seasoning his discourse with
Hungarian proverbs and pithy aphorisms. He introduced his wife to me also. "My
domestic dragon," he said; he could not dispense with his jesting even then. The
lady, however, clearly did not belong to the dragon species. On the contrary,
she was a remarkably pleasant woman, in the prime of life, with really handsome
features. One thing I will say of her: when once she began to talk she never
knew when to leave off. Her conversation knew neither rest nor pause. In my
eyes, however, this is an advantage, for it is my invariable practice to
entertain my lady friends by letting them talk to their hearts' content, while I
listen. [Footnote 100: The reactionary Austrian Minister who was mainly
responsible for the attempted denationalization of Hungary.--TR.] When the bride
was still in her boudoir, the major's lady made me thoroughly acquainted with
the family affairs of all the officers' wives in the regiment. When the bride
appeared in all her bridal glory, accompanied by the bridegroom, who held his
helmet in one hand and a gigantic bouquet of camellias in the other, the
exchange of notes between the witness of the bridegroom and the witness of the
bride took place with all the usual formalities. Towards me the major acted with
the studied courtesy of a high Government official, but towards the lieutenant
he acted the part of a senior officer from beginning to end. He ordered him
about as if he were sitting on horseback and on the point of setting out for
scout duty. And the lieutenant obeyed him like a machine. In fact, the
bridegroom quite gave me the impression of a man sitting in his saddle at the
head of his squadron. The small arms were beginning to fire, the musket balls
were piping about his ears, the hissing grenades strike the ground in front of
him, and he cannot so much as move his head aside till the liberating command
sounds: "Forward! March! Draw your swords! On 'em! Cut, slash!" Stop! What am I
saying? Here was no question of cutting and slashing! No; press her to your
breast, rather! Is she not your bride? Finally, at the word of command, we
reached the altar. It was all over. I had given Bessy away. She was married. She
bore up very gallantly; but then, of course, she had had a deal of practice. But
as for the bridegroom, every one of his movements had to be by order; he was
accustomed to have it so. He was so moved indeed that he could scarcely draw off
his glove, and would have forced the bride to stand on the right hand, whereas
the priest wished her to pass to the left; and when the ceremony was over, he
turned towards his own witness with the expression of a delinquent condemned to
death who has now no hope left save in the mercy of the Court of Appeal. "We
have been married with our left hands," he stammered. His best man reassured
him: "Have no fear of that, my son. 'Tis the usual thing. The bride always
stands on the left, but your right hands were duly placed within each other."
"Impossible!" Worthy Kvatopil did not seem to know which was his right hand and
which was his left. On the way home the happy bride and bridegroom sat together
in a little coach. A splendid banquet awaited the guests in Bessy's lodgings.
The table was already spread. When the happy husband had conducted his darling
yoke-fellow into the midst of us, he, without more ado, flung himself on the
sofa, and, hiding his face in the palms of both hands, began to weep bitterly.
Such a wonder as that is surely not to be seen for either love or money! That a
bridegroom should weep fit to break his heart immediately after the marriage
ceremony, and bewail the loss of his bachelordom in floods of bitter tears! The
two ladies, however, took him in hand between them, and began to entreat and
console him, but he could not stifle this outburst of feeling. The major also
reassured him very prettily: "Come, come, my dear friend, you need not take it
so tragically. Look at me now! I've been through it all! Look how well I get on
with my domestic dragon!" This, however, was poor balm to him in his great
affliction. At last the major fairly lost his temper. "A thousand Turkish
skulls! What's this, lieutenant? Do you wish to regale us with a specimen of the
higher morality? Bombs and grenades! Embrace your wife, sir, immediately!" Bessy
looked at me as if she were on the point of weeping. I pitied her from the
bottom of my heart. "Mr. Lieutenant," I said, "have you ever learnt English?"
The newly-married husband was amazed. "Yes," said he. "From Ollendorf's
grammar?" "Yes." "Do you recollect exercise No. 2: '_Why does the Captain weep?
--Because the Englishman has no bread._'--Well, then, let us _give_ the
Englishman some bread." At this every one burst out laughing. The lieutenant
also laughed. And so this scene came to an end. We sat down to table, and amidst
the merry ring of glasses we made a good deal of fun out of the odd and mystical
question of Ollendorf's, "Why does the Captain weep?" and the still more curious
answer, "Because the Englishman has no bread." The lieutenant's frame of mind
remained an inexplicable enigma to me. In after years I discovered its true
solution. The cause of his weeping was altogether different from what Ollendorf
had supposed. CHAPTER XVI

SOLDIERING

The idyll did not last very long, and was quickly followed by the epic. War
broke out, not among the young married folks, but among the European Powers.
This only so far concerned my ward as Kvatopil was also mobilized; with his
dragoon regiment he went towards the eastern frontier. Bessy, naturally, went
with him. We parted abruptly. They both came to me to say good-bye. Kvatopil's
face was radiant with joy, and the reflection of it was visible in the smiling
face of the lady. There will be war. The soldier's harvest will now ripen. For
the purpose of sending her her quarterly allowance it was absolutely
indispensable that I should know their place of sojourning. "Our title for the
present will be--'An Ihre hochwohlgeboren Frau Oberlieutenantin Elisabeth von
Kvatopil!' For the present, I say. Later on we shall no doubt advance _farther_
and _higher_." "_Farther_ towards the frontier, and _higher_ in the scale of
rank, I suppose?" said I, by way of solving the rebus. My ward (she was four
years younger than I) was very pleased with my polite elucidation, and the pair
of them parted from me in the best humour in the world. After that I received a
letter from my ward every week. There is absolutely nothing in the most
intricately combined knights' moves of the severest chess problems which can be
compared with their peripatetic zigzagings. Now towards the south, a week
afterwards towards the west, then up again towards the north, retreating,
advancing, then back again; knocking about in such utterly unknown hamlets, that
one could only discover them on the best charts by means of microscopes.
Finally, the war took a flying leap into Wallachia and Moldavia, skipped about
Jassy and Bucharest, and then leaped across and all along the Pruth, and at last
settled down in Czernovicz, till it had to move on farther to Przemysl, whence
again it happily doubled back by way of Stry, Munkács, Tokaj, Miskolcz,
Kecskemet, and through Kalocsa again to Buda-Pest. Bessy accompanied her husband
everywhere. All the vicissitudes of the seasons which naturally abounded in such
a martial pleasure trip she patiently endured with him. The letters which she
sent to me during this period would make a very interesting chapter in a history
of camp life. _Opportunist_ reasons restrain me from making them public--they
might deter our young persons (I allude, of course, to the female sex) from
following Bessy's example. Often and often I thought how accurately this young
woman had foretold all these things of herself when we sat beside each other in
my little wooden hut on the Comorn islet. In a straw-hut, in a cow-stall, in a
besieged fortress, in a bare barrack, in the tent of an itinerant player, at the
bivouac of an out-camping soldier--anywhere and everywhere, it is Love that
makes us happy, and its sweet illusion can conjure up fairy palaces out of these
wretched surroundings. And remember, too, that an officer in the field is by no
means an amiable husband. Plagued, worried, chicaned by his official superiors;
flouted by the weather; looking at the enemy with wolf's eyes, and kept back
from falling upon him; eternally bickering with an unfriendly population; a
guest beheld with evil eyes; and his wife (if he have one) like an iron chain
hanging to his neck--it requires no small amount of love on the lady's part for
her to follow him everywhere, and put up with his ill-humour. And she had
prophesied all this beforehand. What was to be the end of it all? But there had
been no advance whatever up the ladder of rank. My last letter was still
addressed to a lieutenant's lady. When the great universal war was over, which
left behind it so much bitter disillusion, Lieutenant Wenceslaus Kvatopil again
came tapping at my door. Clerk Coloman was no longer with me. The _Délibab_ had
come to grief. I now edited the _Vasárnapi Ujság_, in the place of the publicly
advertised and responsible editor Albert Pakh, who was lying ill at Graefenberg.
My new name was "Kakas Mártin. "[101] Eh, what a popular man I was then! There
were Kakas Mártin meerschaum pipes and Kakas Mártin clays, with bowls in the
shape of cock-headed men. I really was in the mouth of the nation in those days.
_O tempi passati!_

[Footnote 101: Martin Cock.] "Ah! 'tis you, brother, eh?" said I. "So you still
recognise me, then?" I must admit that his physiognomy had considerably changed.
During the campaign the officers were permitted to grow absolutely counter-
regulationary beard-pieces. Wenceslaus was now bearded _à la Haynau_, that is to
say, the beard was shaved so as to run into the moustache, till the two seemed
one, which contributed not a little to the formidability of the whole face. But
a still more notable correction of the features was due to his nose, which had
grown quite red,--a piece of ruby. He began by laying his index finger on the
bridge of his nose. "Do you see that? My sole booty from the Russo-Turkish war
is this red nose. Last winter, while we were encamping on the Galician frontier,
I happened to be out in the open field the whole of one night, and got in the
way of a villainous Russian blast. The wind drove the powdered snow into my
face, and each flake stung me like a red-hot needle-point. I was not even able
to turn my back upon it. In the morning my nose was just as you see it now. That
same week twenty of my men were frozen to death in their saddles, half of my
regiment was down in the hospital with inflammation of the lungs, scurvy, and
hunger-typhus. Of my whole squadron I only brought forty men home--and this
blood-red nose as a trophy." At this I did not know whether to condole with or
congratulate him. "I shouldn't have minded so much if only we had been able to
fight with some one; but to go through a six-months' campaign without having
anything else to do with one's sword than lay the flat of the blade about the
shoulders of stubborn peasants during our requisitions for hay, that I _do_ call
hard. Sometimes our foreposts were so close to the enemy that we could _see_
each other's breath, and yet we were not allowed to attack. At one time we were
face to face with the Turks, at another time with the Muscovites. It would have
been all one to me whom I pitched into, so long as I could pitch into some one.
No such luck! Just when I was fancying that now we really were going to begin
the battle, the order came again, 'Sheathe your swords!' and we marched
somewhere else. I would have preferred storming trenches with cavalry to this
sort of thing. And then that cursed maize-bread! Nothing but maize-bread, and
not always enough of that. Half-roasted horse-flesh, too! Thank you for
nothing!" "But, thank Heaven, it is all over now!" said I encouragingly. "It is
over, certainly. But what have I gained by it?" He pointed to his collar. There
certainly were only two stars there still. "No promotion. I am just where I was
before. And yet our major has retired. He was obliged to go, poor fellow; every
limb was full of rheumatism. Our senior captain was promoted to his place, our
second captain into the first captain's place. His place is now empty. I am the
senior lieutenant, but there's not a word said about me. It is enough to make a
fellow blow his brains out!" I earnestly begged him not to think of such a
thing. He had other duties. With such an amiable consort too! "True, brother!
She really is an angel. I dare not think what that woman has gone through during
these bitter times. She was with me everywhere; but for her, perhaps, I should
have gone to the bad. Ah, my friend, you don't know what bliss it is when, after
going one's rounds through a biting snowstorm, one returns to one's quarters to
find there an angel awaiting you with a bowl of steaming-hot punch." "I do know,
for I've tried it." "The punch never failed. If rum was to be had for money, she
got it from somewhere. I have known her, sir, get into her sledge and drive a
day's journey into town to get rum for me. A diamond-hearted woman, I say! And
then her love, too! Despite this ruby nose of mine, she loves me. She says it
suits me very well. Nay, she is not even hurt at remaining simply the wife of a
senior lieutenant. But for her I should have sent a bullet through my head long
ago." I tried to comfort him with the assurance that a senior lieutenant in
active service was worth ever so much more in the world's estimation than a
general on the retired list. He wound up by inviting me to have a glass of punch
with him in the evening as soon as his lodgings were ready to receive me. I
didn't go. Frequently did he invite me, by letter in his wife's name even, and
yet I never went to drink punch with them. When we met together afterwards, I
always invented some excuse. On the first occasion I said my head ached; on the
second occasion I said I was too busy; on the third occasion unexpected country
cousins had looked in upon me, and so on. Every time I met him, however, friend
Wenceslaus always wound up with the bitter exclamation: "I shall have to blow my
brains out. Still no promotion!" At last I was tired of telling so many lies, so
I told my friend the truth. Now, there are three sorts of truths in the world.
The first sort of truth is that which pleases my friend, but doesn't please me.
The second sort of truth is that which pleases me, but doesn't please my friend.
The third sort of truth is that which pleases neither my friend nor myself, and
which brings us to loggerheads at once. Let me illustrate what I mean. To take
number one first, I might have said to friend Kvatopil: "My dear comrade, a
constitutional regime prevails in my house: my wife reigns, but I am
_responsible_, and I could never obtain her majesty's consent to a bill
authorizing me to go and have tea once a week with your pretty wife." But this
truth I did _not_ tell him. But supposing I had said to him: "My dear
lieutenant, I move in a completely different sphere to you. I should be
infinitely honoured by your society, but I should not know what to talk to your
colleagues about," that would have been the second sort of truth. But I did not
tell him that. I told him the third sort of truth. I said: "My dear Kvatopil, if
you want to know the reason why you don't get promotion, I'll tell you. It is
because you are so friendly with me. I am a _persona ingrata_ in the eyes of the
authorities. Only yesterday the police paid me a visit, packed up every scrap of
paper they could lay their hands on, and carried it off; they even took my
pictures out of the frames. Then Police-inspector Prottman came and worried me
for half a day by asking me what I knew about Kossuth's proclamation and the
dollar notes. If you keep on visiting me and writing to me, and if I were to go
and amuse myself among your brother officers, they would think it gospel truth
that you were also concerned in the conspiracy. Fortunately, I always burn your
letters of invitation, or Prottman would now be engaged in docketting them." My
friend was startled. "I only invited you to a glass of punch!" he cried. "Punch
here and punch there! The police would be sure to read it '_putsch_. '[102] And
look ye, comrade, to be perfectly candid with you, I think it would be better
for you if you left off all this punch-drinking, for 'tis that which makes your
nose so red." [Footnote 102: A riot or sedition.] Now _that_ was the truth which
pleased neither of us. "You think so, eh? By Jove, you're right! It has often
seemed to me when I swallow down a glass of punch as if my nose were assuming
enormous dimensions and diffusing a radiance all about me. From this day forth
I'll drink no more punch. My word upon it! What's to-day? January 23rd? Note it
in your diary: 'On January 23rd, Lieutenant Wenceslaus Kvatopil gave me his word
of honour as a gentleman that he would never drink punch again.'" --And he left
me no peace till I had entered it in my diary. "Nay, more than that, no kind of
brandy, or schnaps, or wine, or beer; in a word, no sort of spirituous liquor
whatever." All this I had to make a note of. "And now for a whole year and a day
we'll watch the result. Nothing else now but pure water." For a whole year after
that I saw nothing of Kvatopil, nor did I hear anything of Bessy. One day,
however, my lieutenant suddenly invaded me again; he was still the wearer of two
stars only. "Now, if it isn't really enough to make a fellow blow his brains
out! Again they have passed me over. I went straight to the Colonel. 'Your
Excellency,' I said, 'here have I been in the service for the last twelve years.
I have faithfully performed my duties. I have never used bad language. I know
the regulations. I am at the head of the riding school--and still I am set
aside. I want to know what objection they have against me.'" "Manly conduct on
your part, comrade," I cried. "And do you know what answer I got? You were quite
right, after all." "Your suspicious intimacy with me, I suppose?" "Oh dear, no!
Who the devil cares for your chatter about the police? Not you it is, but this
red nose! Here it is still, and it stands in my way." And he viciously tugged at
the object that stood in his way as if it were some stubborn remount. "I don't
understand." "Then I'll make you. The Colonel replied to my interpellation with
perfect candour. 'My dear Kvatopil,' said he, 'you have indeed the very best
good-conduct report. There's but one fault which weighs heavily in the scale
against you: you are too much devoted to drink.' 'What? I? Given to drink? Why,
for more than a year I have been drinking nothing but water.' 'Impossible!'
cried the Colonel--'just look at your red nose!' 'I acquired that while
campaigning out.' The Colonel shook his head incredulously. 'But I assure your
Excellency that I am speaking the truth, I have written testimony to the fact.'
'Then I should very much like to see it.' So that is why I have come straight to
you. My dear friend, I adjure you by your hope of heavenly bliss, if you love
me, if you ever loved Bessy, if you would save the life of a human creature, to
give me that note-book in which, a year ago, you entered the vow that I made on
my honour as a gentleman, that I may show it to the Colonel." I energetically
resisted this proposal. "My dear friend, all sorts of ticklish items have been
entered in this note-book of mine which absolutely cannot be read by anybody but
myself." But he solemnly assured me that he would never while he was alive
suffer the little book to leave his hands, and would only show to his superior
that one page relating to his solemn engagement, so that at last I was obliged
to submit to his discretion. He promised to return in an hour's time. And he
kept his word. In an hour he returned, gave me back my little book, embraced me
and pressed me to his breast. "My friend, you have made me a happy man. I have
obtained my object. His Excellency, on reading the oath recorded in your note-
book, laughed to such an extent that I could count at least four of his teeth
that were stopped with gold. Great Heaven! he eats gold with gold, while I have
to gnaw bones with bone! When he had somewhat recovered from his outburst of
hilarity, he smacked me on the shoulder, and said: 'Mr. Lieutenant, a great
injustice has been done you. You are not a drunkard. There has been a mistake.
This must be seen to. And I promise you that at the very first vacancy you shall
obtain your third star.'" This promise raised my friend into the seventh heaven
of delight. Hope gave him back the desire of life. This now is the speciality of
a soldier's life. We poor civilians can have no idea of the joy he felt,
especially if we be nothing but simple-minded authors. For an author has only
one star, and that is high above his head. If he can get it, he may keep it,
'tis his. If he cannot get it himself, nobody in the world can get it for him.
CHAPTER XVII

TEMPTATION

The most beautiful comet I ever saw was the comet of 1858. It was visible in the
sky for a whole fortnight, from October 1st to 15th, and all the time the
weather was as fine as could be, not a cloud in the sky. And meanwhile the comet
drew steadily nearer to the earth, growing bigger and bigger, and in shape it
exactly resembled a Turkish scimitar; at last it was quite visible in broad
daylight. I had very good cause for remembering this comet so well. In September
of the same year I was seized with hæmorrhage of the lungs, an alarming symptom
in a young man. Our doctor, Sebastian Andrew Kovacs of blessed memory, said that
it was not medicine that I wanted, but change of air. I submitted to his
directions, and at the beginning of the autumn I undertook an audacious
expedition--to visit the Western Carpathian Alps on horseback. Our good old
friend Gabriel Török (he had been a Government Commissioner during the
Revolution) and his two sons were my guides, for they had been all through those
beautiful regions[103] before. Five to six hours in the saddle every day for a
fortnight, through pathless forests, up and down steep rocky precipices, wading
through streams and mountain torrents, dancing of an evening at the balls
frequently given in our honour, in the big-heeled boots that we had worn on
horseback during the day, gobbling bacon as we stopped to rest on the fresh
grass, and washing it down with a gurgling drink out of our brandy-flasks--that
is what I call a radical cure for inflammation of the lungs. [Footnote 103:
Jókai has immortalized these wonderful landscapes in _Az Erdelyi arány Kóra_,
perhaps his best descriptive romance.] It cured me, anyhow. With my suite, which
gradually swelled into ten strong, I visited Bihar, and found out the rocky
grave beneath which reposes my good friend Paul Vasváry, who died such a heroic
death. [104] I also saw the Hungarian California, the gold-diggings of
Abrudbanya and Verespatak. I painted that marvellous basalt hill Detonátá, than
which it is impossible to imagine a more interesting formation. I was in
_Csetátye Máré_, that overwhelming relic of the Roman power, a gigantic gold-
producing hill entirely hollowed out by the slavish hands of a subjugated race.
When they would have dug still deeper, the top of the scooped-out mountain fell
in and buried beneath it both slaves and slave-holders. And there it stands now,
a gaping chasm, like one of the circular Mountains of the Moon. [Footnote 104:
One of the victims of the Revolution.] I love to look back on this delightful
tour; and the lovely comet accompanied me in the sky all the time. The result of
my journey was that I returned home with perfectly healthy lungs. From the
comet, moreover, I borrowed the idea of starting a weekly comic paper under the
title of _Ustökös_. [105] And this paper gave me something to do for the next
fifteen years. During all that time it had great influence. With a preliminary
and a supplementary censureship to deal with, it was only possible to say a word
of truth or a word of encouragement in verse or by way of anecdote. Sometimes a
printer's error served our turn instead. For instance, to the question, "What
shall a Hungarian man do now?" the answer was, "_Várjon és türjön_" ("Wait and
suffer"); but by a printer's error the "_türjön_" became "_türr jön_," which the
reader, in his own mind, would read as "_Türr jön_" ("Let Türr come"), and
associate it at once with the popular ballad sung from one end of the kingdom to
the other, and which begins, "_Hoz Türr Pizta puskát!_" ("Pizta Türr he brings
his musket!") [Footnote 105: This comic paper still exists, but M. Jókai is no
longer its editor.] But the comet had another signification also. In those days
war was our universal prayer. And the following year actually brought it.
Napoleon III. 's historical new year's greeting settled the dread destiny of the
year. One day my lieutenant again came to see me; I was still his guardian. His
face beamed with joy. "God be with you, my friend!" It was a strange beginning.
"I suppose you've got your promotion in your pocket?" "Not that, but an order to
march. Our whole regiment goes to Lombardy, and perhaps even farther. There will
be war with Italy, but pray don't say anything about it. 'Tis a State secret."
"I knew it long ago." "From whom?" "From the Chief of the Police himself. One
day he summoned before him all the newspaper editors in Buda-Pest and sternly
commanded them not to write a single letter as _to the preparations_ for the
impending war. And thus we heard all about the coming campaign from the very
best authority." "Well, they certainly might have acted more discreetly than
that." "Where, then, shall I send you your remittances in the immediate future?"
"Nowhere at all, dear friend. Bessy will remain here. Nobody is allowed to take
his wife with him, not even the Colonel; whilst from the very day on which the
war begins I shall receive double pay. So give the money to Bessy." "I'll _send_
it to her." "I say _give_ it to her. Take it yourself personally." "I am much
obliged for your confidence." "It is more than confidence. I wish you, while I
am away, to go and see her: be her guest every day, and make yourself quite at
home." "The deuce! Do you consider me, then, one of those ninnies to whom one
can confide a pretty woman _à l'outrance_?" "_Au contraire!_ I am convinced of
the contrary. I know that in such matters no reliance can be placed upon mere
honour. The only thing a man expects from his worthy comrades is discretion. I
am well informed of everything. My wife has confessed everything to me: the
little wooden hut on the Comorn island, and then the visit in your private room,
the meeting at the Pagan Altar.... He, he, he! we know all the circumstances
quite well!" (It was an unheard of case. To think that a pretty woman should
become the trumpet of her own notoriety!) "But, my dear comrade, on my word of
honour ..."

"Here we have nothing to do with words of honour. You were in love with her
once, and I need have no further fear of any one who _used_ to love Bessy.
Jupiter was the chief of the gods, and had the loveliest of women for his wife,
yet _he_ didn't keep the ten commandments. 'Twill be better to pour pure wine
into our glasses, I think." "But, I repeat, I don't want to pour any wine at all
into my glass." "Stuff and nonsense! We know all about that. Bessy makes a fool
of every man, and showers contempt on her worshippers. Of you alone does she
always speak with rapture. Whenever your name is mentioned she sighs deeply, and
says, 'Ah, and I might have been his, too!'" "That proves all the more that our
relations have been purely Platonic." "Very good indeed! What I like about you
best of all is the serious face with which you are always able to defend your
point of view. Another man in your place would rejoice at his good fortune; you
nobly deny yourself. You will compromise nobody. You have that advantage over
all my other good friends. I would rather entrust her to you than to anybody."
"But why not rather trust her to herself? Foster within her the sentiment of
fidelity. Write to her every day from the camp." "Nay, my friend, a letter won't
do. I can't be always scribbling and raving to her. Bessy is not one of the
romantic sort. You know all her various temperaments." "Indeed, I know nothing
of the sort." "Well, I do then. I know that the moment I've cast my right foot
over my horse's back she will be unfaithful to me. It is as much her nature to
be so as it is my nature to fight and yours to write. When I can't sit on
horseback I'm ill, when you can't write a romance you're ill, and when a pretty
woman is not flirting she gets the _migraine_. Your hand upon it that you will
visit my Bessy while I am far away and comfort her!" And the tears really
started to his eyes. Now, here was a situation which is not to be found in any
romance, and which the reader will, I know, only accept as true under protest. A
soldier departing for the wars forcibly compels his good friend to try and
comfort the pretty wife he leaves behind him. But that that friend should kick
and struggle with all his might against such a marvellous piece of good fortune
is a fact which I am sure I shall never get the enlightened public to believe
anyhow. "My friend," said Kvatopil finally, drying the tears from his eyes and
violently pressing one of my hands in one of his, "you know that we valiant
horsemen, dragoons and uhlans, are going down to Italy; the hussars have gone
already. The volunteers will take our place here in garrison-duty. During our
absence down there they will be raging furiously here. If I thought that mine
would be the shame to see my place here taken by one of those red-braided,
chicory hussars, I should be capable of blowing out first my wife's brains and
then my own. Don't allow such a thing to happen. If one of those cockatoos were
to see your astrachan pelisse with the large chalcedon buttons of yours hanging
up in my ante-chamber, he would be scared into flight at once." At this we both
laughed heartily. We took leave of each other very prettily. Kvatopil with the
fairest hopes followed the glorious career which promised him fame and
promotion. The whole kingdom waited for news from the seat of war with rapt
attention. Our parting had taken place at the end of April. In May, the official
newspapers gave us a brief account of the battle of Montebello. It was not a
regular pitched battle, but a forced reconnaissance by the Austrian general with
a jumble of some 12,000 men of all arms. Both the Austrians and the French
fought bravely. The official _communiqué_ did not give further details. I,
however, through the kind offices of a courier sent from the seat of war to the
Commandant of Buda, also received a private letter from the field of battle.
Kvatopil wrote thus:--

"MY DEAR FRIEND,--

"I hasten to write to you after the battle. The whole      of our regiment was
under fire, repulsed the French      chasseurs and pursued them into Montebello.
_I received      a slight wound in the forehead, which did not, however,
prevent my further fighting. The Commander-in-chief      immediately promoted me
to the rank of captain, and      praised my valour in front of the regiment.
Make known      the joyous news to my dear wife. I am not able to write      to
her. A thousand kisses to the pair of you._

"WENCESLAUS KVATOPIL, Captain." But there was a postscript also. "P.S.--Show
this letter to nobody, and don't let it out      of your hand. Destroy it when
you have read it through,      for, if it were discovered, it would bring me
into the      greatest trouble, as it is absolutely forbidden to      write
letters from the camp. That is why I have      addressed it to you instead of to
my wife, for I can      count upon your discretion. In her triumph she would
show the letter everywhere. But you burn it.--W. K." Now, this letter made it my
positive duty to visit Bessy, for I could only tell her about it by word of
mouth. I might indeed have destroyed Kvatopil's letter, then written its entire
purport to his wife in a letter of my own, but in that case she would certainly
have carried my letter from pillar to post, and the mischief would have been the
same. If I went to her in broad daylight, every one would see me. I could not go
_incognito_, for I was as well known as a bit of bad money. Besides that, the
Hungarian national costume was in fashion just then. Every one who wore it might
expect to have his name bawled after him in the street for a week afterwards at
the very least. If, on the other hand, I were to go to Bessy when it was dark,
and they were lighting the gas-lamps, that would only make matters worse. And
again, it would be an inconceivable absurdity not to suppose that one or other
of Bessy's fair neighbours would not be looking out of the windows of the house
opposite, with the most persistent curiosity, to see who was going in at the
gate. And if but one of them saw me, the whole theatre would know all about it
on the morrow. A husband with a conscience (and there _are_ such husbands) ought
in such cases to stand before his wife with a demure countenance, and say to her
honestly and openly: "My dear angel, I am obliged to pay a disagreeable visit to
this or that lady, and I don't half like it; I wish you would come too."
Whereupon the wife will naturally be quite magnanimous and say: "Go along by
yourself, my dear; you know that I am not a bit jealous." But my wife happened,
just then, to be away acting at Szeged, and would not be back for a week. That
would be an aggravating circumstance in the case of a visit. While I was thus
debating with myself, a smart little maid-servant came to my door. She had a
covered market-basket on her arm, and she drew out of it a neatly-folded little
_billet-doux_, which she placed in my hand. The note smelt of celery, under
which it had been put. I recognised the handwriting of the address, it was
Bessy's. I opened and read it. The maid stood there and waited. At last she grew
impatient of the long delay, and said: "I am waiting for an answer." "Oh, so
you're still there? Stop a bit!" I read the letter once more. "MY DEAR GUARDIAN,

"Very serious business makes me send to you. Come and      see me. As your
honoured wife is now engaged on a      provincial tour, can't you come and dine
with me      to-day? We shall be all by ourselves. "BESSY." Was there ever an
odder reason?--"_As your honoured wife is now engaged on a provincial tour_"! No
doubt she found that out in the _Fövárosi Lapok_. [106] But the conclusion:
"_therefore_ you can come and dine with me to-day"! And finally: "We shall be
all by ourselves"! If that wasn't a temptation, I don't know what is. [Footnote
106: _News of the Capital_, a popular newspaper of the period.] I began to walk
up and down. The maid waited to see if I was going to count how many paces it
was from the window to the door. At last she grew importunate. "Is there any
answer, please? I have to go home and cook the dinner." "Ah, yes, of course!
Greet your mistress from me, and tell her that I'll come and see her in the
forenoon to-morrow." "But I want to know whether you are coming to dinner, that
I may arrange my cooking accordingly." "True! Then say I'll come to dinner." In
Bessy's house the custom seemed to prevail for the mistress to dine six days of
the week with Duke Humphrey, and then on the seventh, her at-home day, to make a
great parade before her guests. I was now running into the very centre of
danger. I could not possibly back out of this engagement. "A serious business,
eh?" I know it was serious enough to me. An ideal of my youth, and lovelier now
than ever, with a husband of her own too, and that husband a fine manly fellow.
So far from being jealous, he had openly entrusted me with the consolation of
his sorrowing spouse. And I am the last person in the world to be enrolled in
the Order of Anchorites. I candidly admit that I am not a bit better than my
neighbours. So I tricked myself out finely. I put on my new coffee-coloured
clothes with the antique buttons; I neatly tied my embroidered cravat; I drew on
my Kordofan-leather boots with the silver spurs; I fastened a crane's plume in
my new spiral hat. This was the audacious fashion of the year, and within a
twelvemonth this costume was worn in the whole kingdom. And after that, I went
to the barber's and he twisted my thick blonde hair into masterly ringlets.
Aggravating circumstances, the whole lot of them! CHAPTER XVIII

A COLD DOUCHE

How my heart beat when I set forth on my expedition! On the way from my dwelling
to Bessy's lodgings my ill fate brought me face to face with all the veteran
actresses of the National Theatre, and they all stopped me and asked where I was
going. They all remarked that I was very stylishly got up, and they all shook
their fingers at me, and said: "Fie, fie! you straw-widower!" The devil must
really have been in me to make me take the trouble to have my hair so prettily
frizzled. I was just about to dash hastily up the staircase of Bessy's dwelling,
when whom should I run into but Tóni Sági. It only needed that. He came from the
same town as I did, was a common friend of all my friends, and was about as
reticent of news as a town-crier. "Your servant, friend! Why, you're quite a
stranger. I've just come from Bessy. The young lady is in a very bad humour. She
as good as pitched me out of doors. She must be expecting some one. Perhaps you
are the very man, eh?" It was all up with me now! To-morrow every newspaper in
the town will report my visit here. For "quod licet _bovi_, non licet _Jovi_."
If I were to turn back now, it would only make matters worse. I hastened up the
steps. Bessy lived on the third floor.... To get to her rooms I had to follow
the open corridor which led down to the courtyard. I passed on my way the
lodgings of a milliner, a female pawnbroker, and a lady who supplied families
with servant-maids, and all three poked their heads out of their windows and
watched me disappear. On reaching Bessy's number, I found, tugging at the bell-
rope, a red-peluched young coxcomb. The door was about a fourth part open, and
the face of the vicious looking cook was protruding out of it. She dismissed the
visitor with curt ceremony. "My mistress is not at home!" We nearly trod each
other's spurs off as we cannoned against each other in the narrow corridor. A
minute afterwards the countenance of the self-same cook, rounded into complete
amiability, again appeared, and she said to me:

"Would you do us the honour to walk in?" And she held the door wide open for me.
You should have seen the face which my red furbelowed gentleman made at this. It
was not enough for him to open his eyes and mouth at me; he stuck his _pince-
nez_ on the bridge of his nose as well. That will mean a duel for me to-morrow.
Meantime, however, I was master of the situation. I had to go through the
kitchen to get to Bessy's room. The kitchen was also the ante-chamber; you hung
up your overcoat there. Her cook was her only servant, parlour-maid, chamber-
maid, everything. "Would you kindly walk into the saloon?" urged the servant.
"But announce me beforehand. Here's my card." "Beg pardon, but I can't take it;
both my hands are doughy." (She was in the middle of kneading some dough cake or
other with butter.) "Would you kindly put your card between my teeth?" Thus,
like a retriever, she carried in my card between her teeth. A moment afterwards
she cried:

"Come in now, please!" I entered the room which the servant had called a saloon.
Nobody was there. I looked around me. I found nothing there of the luxurious
splendour which had surrounded the young lady formerly in her mother's house;
but for all that everything was neat and pretty. Embroideries, a music-stand
with songs upon it, and a fiddle, flower-pots, a cage with exotic birds,
Wallachian _Katrinczas_,[107] Szekler pottery, a few handsomely bound books--all
these were so disposed as to fill the mind with a sense of refined elegance
combined with the utmost simplicity. [Footnote 107: Aprons.] A curtained door
led from the saloon into another room--possibly a bed-chamber. In a few minutes
this door opened and the fair lady fluttered in. It did not escape my attention
that the moment she entered she turned her head on one side, and contracted her
eyebrows as if to bid some one else remaining behind there to keep quiet. The
momentary opening of the door also permitted me to see that in the direction in
which she had looked was a tall tester bed with the curtains drawn close. The
moment, however, that she had shut the door behind her and turned towards me,
the face of the lovely lady became all amiability. She hastened up to me and
pressed my hand. "It was very nice of you to come and see me. Don't be angry
with me for giving you the trouble." The lady was now more amiable than ever.
She was in the simplest stay-at-home toilet. The only ornament on her head was
her own bright silky hair, twisted up into a knot and tied at the top with a
ribbon. She looked just as she was ten years before, a little girl of sixteen.
Her whole being recalled to me her childish days. There was the same candid,
guileless look; those open eyes through which you could read into her very soul;
the same artless mouth. She invited me to sit down. She took my hat and laid it
on the table. "I suppose you'll remain to dinner? I have told the cook to
prepare your favourite dish." "Then you know what it is?" "Why, of course!
_Beans with pig's ear._ Why, all your admirers throughout the kingdom know
that." I had now good reason to be proud! My nation, then, has some regard for
me, after all. To others it presents _bays_, to me--_beans_. [108]

[Footnote 108: In Hungarian the resemblance is closer still, _babo_ meaning
bean, and _babér_, laurel.] "In that case I'll remain," I said. "In Kvatopil's
time I was never permitted to cook beans, for he maintained that they make a man
stupid." "On the contrary. Pythagoras assures us that the bean contains the same
component parts as the human brain." Having thus rehabilitated the bean, I
reverted to the real motive of my visit there. "I should have come to visit you
to-day even without a special invitation." "Was there any special reason, then,
why I should occupy a place in your thoughts?" "I have received a letter from
Italy, the contents of which will greatly interest you." At these words she
looked at me as coldly as if she had become an alabaster statue. "Interest
_me_?" "So I believe. On the 20th instant there was a battle on the Mincio, at
which your husband distinguished himself." "Really?" said the lady mechanically.
("Really?" --In that tone? It was rather odd. However, I went on.) "Nay, in the
heat of the combat he was even wounded." (I calculated surely on the dramatic
effect of these words. I fancied that the tender spouse would leap to her feet,
pale, ready to faint, wringing her hands, till at last, amidst sobs, the name of
the adored husband would burst forth from her lips: "Oh! my Wenceslaus! Oh! my
Kvatopil!" But she did not so much as turn her head round.) "Indeed?" she said,
with complete _sangfroid_. Just as if it were an every-day occurrence for a
beloved husband to be wounded in battle. I was offended. Such ungrateful
indifference I had never met with before. How was I to go on? I had calculated
that when the despairing consort had wept and sobbed her fill, I should hasten
to console her. "It is true," said I, "that his wound is not sufficiently
dangerous to prevent him from continuing in the field." "I can easily believe
it," replied the lady, with a shrug of the shoulders. Now this was a want of
feeling worthy of an alligator! Surely she had the nerves of a rhinoceros! I was
not prepared for this reception. "I can easily believe it!" Was that all? Well,
then, if our tender feelings are so hermetically sealed, we must try what more
drastic means will do. We must appeal to other sentiments. Vanity, for instance,
is a sentiment which never can be blunted. So I moved forward my heavy
artillery. "Lieutenant Kvatopil," I said, "was called to the front and made a
captain straight off for heroic valour in the field." But even at this the
lovely lady did not fling herself on my neck. She did not even utter a sound,
but contracted the corners of her mouth. What did that mean? When you tell a
lieutenant's wife that from to-day she has a right to the title Mrs. Captain;
that every one who meets her in the street and congratulates her will address
her as, "Frau Rittmeisterin," while the other lieutenants' wives naturally burn
with secret envy; that she may now print her corresponding rank on her visiting
cards--when you tell her all this, and even then no impression is produced, and
the cherry lips do _not_ expand with joy, revealing the sparkling, pearly teeth
and the dimples on the sunbright face; when, instead of that, she purses up her
mouth so nastily and gives herself a double chin--what _are_ you to think? There
is nothing so hideous as a pretty woman with a double chin. A double chin makes
a woman look absolutely old. I was quite confused. What am I to do to amuse her
now? Should I talk about the weather? "May I congratulate you?" I said, seizing
her hand. But not only did she _not_ press my hand in return, as she ought to
have done; on the contrary, she irritably drew it back and turned aside her
head. Suddenly a light flashed through my brain, a light kindled by my
immeasurable self-conceit. "Why go on praising the distant husband," said I to
myself, "when you yourself are present? Do you think she invited you to dinner
to sing the praises of Wenceslaus Kvatopil?" I drew my chair nearer to the sofa
on which Bessy was sitting, and airily passed my hand through my frizzled locks.
Bessy observed the movement, and quickly turned her face towards me. A mocking
smile suddenly lighted up her face, a smile from which a man can read a whole
chapter in a moment. That is something like stenography. "Ha, ha, sir! then we
have come thither with that thought, have we? We have had our hair frizzled, eh?
We have decked ourselves out to be irresistible, I know?" A thousand mocking
fish-tailed nixies were wriggling about in those sea-like eyes. It was a
murderous sort of smile. I was conscious of having been taken down pretty
considerably. Here was I (quite contrary to my usual custom) tricked and
furbished up like a "_petit maître_," while she, the lady, received me in her
simplest barracan house-dress, without any finery, and with a smile she
discharged at me the saying of the great poet:

"O Vanity! thy name is woman!" But why, then, had she sent for me? Why had she
driven away one visitor and denied herself to another if not for my sake?
Perhaps for the sake of a third party who had already arrived? When she came out
of her boudoir she seemed to me to be signalling with her eyebrows at some one.
I quickly pulled myself together. I fancy I must have been very red in the face,
and I certainly had good reason to be ashamed of myself. I saw that I had not
been able to reap laurels in the _rôle_ of Don Juan, so I began to take up the
part of Tartuffe. Let us play the righteous judge! "Perhaps I have not come at a
very convenient time?" "On the contrary, I _asked_ you to come at this time."
"On a serious business, eh?" "A serious business for me." "But isn't what I've
just been saying to you serious?" "Apparently." "Yet you received it with a very
queer face." "I listened seriously enough." "But the affair had its cheerful
aspect also, surely?" The fair dame made a contemptuous clicking with her
tongue. "Don't you feel any interest, then, in Kvatopil's heroism, wounds,
distinction, and promotion?" "No!" she replied resolutely, almost snapping my
sentence in two. Her eyes sparkled like burning naphtha lakes. "No?" I repeated,
in my amazement. "You take no interest in your husband's fate whether it be bad
or good? You feel neither hot nor cold on the subject?" "No!" ("No!" again).
"But you parted in the greatest affection when he went to the wars?" "True."
"And it is scarcely a month since then." "Only twenty-nine days, I've counted
them." "And meanwhile winter has come?" "It has." After that she began to laugh
maliciously. She leaped to her feet and rumpled my frizzly hair with her
fingers. "Let's leave the matter till after dinner; then I'll tell you
everything. But don't let us spoil a good dinner in the meantime. You are quite
horrified at me now, and fancy that I've laid a trap for you. You will see later
on that this serious business of mine is not a joke. Let us leave it till after
the black coffee." I revived again. The lady was capricious, and it suited her.
"I was determined to give you a good dinner. I owe you your revenge. It is a
long time since we dined together. Last time I was your guest. Don't you
remember? At the Pagan Altar. I never ate so heartily. What splendid toast you
had! And the bacon, too, broiled on a stick! Why, I've got the taste of that
good red pepper of yours in my mouth to this day! And now I mean to give you
hospitality that you will remember for a long time!" This again was delightfully
reassuring! She was of the true cat species--she purrs and fondles, but one must
be continually on one's guard against her claws. "Come now, help me to lay the
table! My cook has enough to do without that." So I had to help her lay the
table, for the saloon was the dining-room also. One had only to remove the
books, porcelain vases, and china knick-knacks from the table in front of the
sofa, and then cover it with the table-cloth. I was curious to see how many she
would lay for. Only for two. Two plates, two knives, forks and spoons, and two
glasses. But how about that third person, that person in the bedroom yonder? Or
had I rightly interpreted that peculiar expression of hers? I was beginning to
think the whole thing was pure hallucination on my part. Suddenly the scraping
of a cautiously-moved chair sounded from the boudoir. I saw that the lady was
considerably put out, and felt decidedly uncomfortable. She wrathfully pressed
her lips together. "Have you any one in the next room?" I inquired, in a stern,
judicial voice. "I have!" she replied defiantly. "Madame!" I exclaimed, in
virtuous high dudgeon. "Would you like to know who _is_ inside?" she cried, in
an offended tone. "Oh, dear, no! I'm not a bit curious," said I, and began
looking about for my hat and stick. "But I _wish_ you to know," she cried
indignantly, barring my way, and, seizing my hand, she led me to the door of the
bedroom, and hastily flung it open. In the room a blonde young lady stood before
me gazing at me with wondering large blue eyes. Bessy introduced this lady to
me. "Madame Wenceslaus Kvatopil, from Cracow." Then she pulled aside the bed-
curtains, and on the bed was lying a little girl about eleven years of age.
"This is Wenceslaus Kvatopil's daughter. Poor things! let us leave them alone!"
For at least a minute I felt as if some magic power were whirling me round and
round the globe with it from the North Pole to the Equator, and back again. How
I got out of that room into the other I really cannot say. Before me continually
were the faces of that large-eyed, timid-looking woman and the little girl. I
heard the sound of weeping behind me. It was Bessy. She had hidden her face in
her hands, and was sobbing. "Oh, how I loved that man! How good, how perfect I
thought him! I fancied him a model man! Even now I cannot accuse him. It was not
his fault, but mine alone. His sin is my crime. Oh, what folly! Let us speak of
the situation seriously. You know now, I suppose, why I wanted to see you. I
wished to ask your advice." I sat down beside her. Bessy dried her eyes, and
then began to speak quite soberly. "The whole world judges me wrongly. They
fancy I am full of levity. But if anything pains me, the pain lasts a long, long
time. Since _he_ went away I have been nowhere, and seen nobody. If any of my
old acquaintances came to see me, I told them that the whole place was topsy-
turvy, and there was not even a chair to sit down upon. My servant had orders to
say to every one who called--_with one exception_--that I was not visible. Who
was this exception? Yourself! She could easily guess whom I meant, and if she
didn't guess it, it didn't much matter. When _he_ had to go away so suddenly, he
was in a very tender mood. He wanted to make me swear that I would not be
faithless while he was away. He even brought me a crucifix for the purpose, and
when he saw that I laughed at him, he besought me, if I really must deceive him,
at least not to bestow my favours upon the first ragamuffin that turned up; nay,
he even took the trouble to indicate a worthy man to me, of whom he could not be
jealous; whereupon I told him, very seriously, that the man he meant was capable
of _killing_ anybody who stood in the way of _his_ love, but was altogether
incapable of _filching_ love from anybody else!" (At this my face grew very red
indeed.) "Then he suddenly assumed a mystic mood, he knew my weak side. He said:
'If you deceive me for the sake of any other man, at that same moment I shall
die. Day and night I stand where death is meted out every instant, and the
moment a kiss from your lips touches the lips of another man, at that self-same
moment, I say, the bullet which is lying in wait for me will fly straight to my
heart!' A horrible saying! It would not let me sleep, and rose up before me in
my dreams. When one or other of my lady friends came to visit me and we fell
a-chatting and began to laugh and joke, a sort of cold shiver would suddenly run
all down my body. While I am smiling, I thought, perhaps he is dying a death of
torments beneath the horses' hoofs. Every savoury morsel sticks in my throat
when I think--perhaps he is now suffering hunger and thirst; and when the blast
shakes my windows, I think--now he is standing defenceless amidst the tempest
and freezing. And I unable to protect him! "In short, this threat of his made me
quite a somnambulist. At last I denied myself even to my lady friends. I became
quite morbid. I fancied I had no right to be gay. Ten times a day I went to the
crucifix by which he had wished me to swear and knelt down before it to pray. I
made all sorts of vows provided he were preserved and brought back safely to me.
And yet I am a Calvinist! But that crucifix was _his_. He remained faithful to
it through all his change of faith. In fact, I was in a fair way of becoming a
Pietist. I began to think a life of virtue very beautiful. I should very much
have liked to see you now and again, if only to show you that I could be just as
moral as you. I would have praised your wife to you, and you would have returned
the compliment by praising my husband. This would have been my ambition." It was
the cook who interrupted this burst of feeling. "Shall I bring in the stew,
madame?" "Yes, bring it in, if it is ready." Then she turned to me to explain
the circumstances of the case. "I have to let these ladies have their food
cooked separately, for Magyar dishes would make them mortally ill. That is why I
don't lay the table for three. _Your_ favourite dishes would be death to these
Germans." The cook now brought in the stewed chicken. Bessy tasted it first with
a little spoon to see if it were salted enough, and also to see whether the cook
had put parsley in it by mistake, for the doctor who was attending the little
girl had forbidden every sort of seasoning ingredients in her food. Then she
herself sliced up a roll of the best white bread for the little girl, poured
some water for her into a glass, and warmed it a little by holding it tightly
for a while between the palms of her hands instead of popping a live coal into
it, as thoughtful mothers often do for their sick children. For the mother of
the child, however, she had a bottle of Pilsener beer uncorked, and sent to her.
Only when they had dined was our dinner served. Meanwhile, we did not resume our
interrupted conversation; the servant was constantly passing in and out, and we
could not speak before her. Then, after that, when we sat down to dinner (and a
bitter meal it was to me) the thread of our conversation was broken as often as
the cook came in with a new dish or to change a plate, and all that time she
played the part of the amiable hostess, inviting me to fall to in good old
Hungarian style. "One morning," she said, "while I was doing my hair, my servant
came and told me that a shabby-looking woman was outside, with a biggish girl,
making inquiries about the lieutenant. I went out to them into the kitchen. I
saw before me a blonde, blue-eyed woman, of about the same age as myself, and
clinging to her arm was a lanky slip of a growing girl about ten or eleven years
of age. In the woman's hand was a travelling-bag and an umbrella. She was in
bourgeois costume, without the fashionable crinoline, and on her head was a
simple felt cap; her girl was dressed in just the same way. They both wore their
hair quite smooth and combed back from the forehead. "The woman wished me good-
day in German. "I asked her what she wanted. "The woman replied that she wanted
her husband, Mr. Wenceslaus Kvatopil. "'The lieutenant?' "'When he left me he
was only a lieutenant.' "I quickly caught her by the hand and led her out of the
kitchen into the saloon. My servant, fortunately, did not understand German. "I
led them right into my bedroom. I invited them both to be seated. "'Ah, that
will do us good,' said the woman, 'for we have come a long way. We have come
here from Cracow.' "'Surely not on foot?' "'On foot all the way. We couldn't
afford to come by rail.' "Just fancy! The very thought is terrible! To come on
foot all those hundred miles hither from Cracow with a growing girl! Can one's
imagination realize such a thing? "'Are you the wife of Lieutenant Wenceslaus
Kvatopil?' I inquired of the woman. "'I am, and this is his daughter, Marianna.'
"And by way of proving her assertion she drew from her travelling-bag her
marriage lines, extracted from the registers of the cathedral of Cracow, to
wit:--'Bridegroom: Wenceslaus Kvatopil, Sub-Lieutenant in the *** Dragoons.
Bride: Anna Dunkircher. Witnesses: Babolescky, Colonel, and Kolmarscky,
shopkeeper. Officiating clergyman: Stanislaus Lubousky. Dated, Feb. 16th, 1846.'
"Then she showed me the baptismal certificate of the daughter. 'Marianna, born
in lawful wedlock, June 19th, 1846. Father: Sub-Lieutenant Wenceslaus Kvatopil.
Mother: Anna Dunkircher. Officiating clergyman: Stanislaus Lubousky. Godparents:
the above-mentioned marriage-witnesses.' "A marriage contract, duly attested,
was also among the documents." All at once Bessy burst out laughing. The cook
came in and brought the soup. "Ha! ha! ha! Do you know why, according to
Ollendorf, the Captain weeps?" "Because the Englishman has no bread." "Look,
Susy, you've forgotten to give my guardian some bread! Give him a crusty bit, he
likes that!" The servant apologised, but said that she didn't think the soup
required bread. It was excellent soup, made of cream and eggs and rice and
finely-chopped chicken. Bessy filled my plate with it. "Thank you, that will be
enough." When the servant went out we resumed our conversation. And here, I may
remark, by the way, that there is no more pleasant _tête-à-tête_ in the world
than that which is interrupted every ten minutes or so by the incursions of the
servants. "Now we know," said I, "what was the cause of the extraordinary
phenomenon of a happy bridegroom beginning to sob bitterly immediately after his
marriage. It was his deserted wife and child that the poor fellow was thinking
about." "True, but don't let your soup cool on that account. Would you like a
little Parmesan with it?" "Thank you, but I like it much better without."
"Wenceslaus Kvatopil liked his _with_ Parmesan." Then we settled down to our
soup. "Wenceslaus Kvatopil always had a second serving of rice soup." "Thank
you, but I never take a second serving of any dish." "I know that, and I also
know that it is your habit to leave the best bit at the side of your plate."
"How did you come to know that?" "I first observed it when I was a little girl
and you sometimes came to dine with us. They say that it is a species of
superstition; the tit-bit placed at the side of the plate signifies that our
distant true love is suffering from hunger." "It is no superstition, but a
simple rule of health to leave off eating and drinking while your appetite is
still at its best." Thus we continued our dietetic discussions as if we had no
other desire in the world than to live a ripe old age and be free from gout. I
have already mentioned that there was chopped-up chicken in the soup, and that
portion of the chicken fell to Bessy's lot which is known as the spur-bone. Now,
it is a well-known custom among young unmarried ladies in confidential conclave,
when one of them gets such a spur-bone, for her to invite her fair colleague to
crack the bone with her. One of them then takes one end of the spur-bone and the
other takes the other end, and they pull away in different directions till the
bone comes in two. Whichever of them gets the spur portion will be married
soonest. That is a fantastic sort of superstition, if you like. Bessy laughed
and said:

"When we ate our first dinner together, a spur-bone of this sort fell into my
hands. I stretched it out towards Anna. 'Pull,' I said, 'and see which of us is
to have Kvatopil.'" "Then you got to be good friends pretty quickly?" "Why
shouldn't we? Hadn't we both the same husband? I naturally kept them here with
me. I don't know what would have become of them if I hadn't taken them in. At
this moment they haven't got a farthing. They travelled the whole distance on
coffee only. They had no other upper garments but what they were actually
wearing on their bodies.... My first duty was to get them properly dressed. My
clothes fitted the woman very well, and I bought some for the child in Kerepesi
Street. But the little one had to take to her bed immediately, for she had a bad
headache and was very feverish. I sent for a doctor, and he gave her some
medicine which sent her to sleep. She and her mother have slept in my bed ever
since, and I sleep on the sofa.--Won't you have a little liver?" "No, thank you.
Pray, go on!" "When the poor lady saw that I received her kindly, her heart
melted; she fell upon my neck, and our tears flowed like spring showers. We knew
that one of us would be the death of the other, but which was to be the victim?
Then we quickly told each other our experiences of our common husband, and how
we first met him. I could make a strange dramatic scene out of it. "I inquired:
'Come now, Anna, tell me, how did you first meet with Kvatopil, and how could
you remain absent from him for thirteen years?' Anna replied: 'It is a strange
story. Do you happen to know, Bessy, the history of the Cracow Republic?' "I:
'No, dear, I never heard of the poor thing.' "Anna: 'Then you must know that it
is a large Polish town where the Polish kings were formerly crowned and buried
when they died. I am a native of that city. My father was a famous glove-maker
in Cracow, whose goods were sold far and wide. Our town was the last free Polish
Republic when Poland was finally partitioned. Its territory consisted of twenty-
two square miles.'" ("Less than Debreczin," I interrupted.) Bessy went on with
Anna's narrative:--

"'When I was a little girl ten years of age a fresh Polish insurrection broke
out. The united forces of the Austrians, Russians, and Prussians again put it
down, and the care of the Cracow Republic was entrusted to Austria. The old
Polish customs and assemblies remained in force, but Austrian soldiers
garrisoned the citadel continually. When I was sixteen years old my mother died,
and I had to take her place behind the counter. Here I made the acquaintance of
Kvatopil. He was a young sub-lieutenant, and he generally came to our shop to
buy his gloves. Would that he had stopped short at gloves! Can any one justly
give a bad name to a young girl because she is confiding? I believed in him! And
he really had such a good heart. When he saw that I had only to choose between
shame and death, he went to my father and begged for my hand. Naturally they
gave us to each other. It was never the custom among the Poles when a girl
married a soldier for her to go and ask permission first of all from the
military authorities, and deposit a terribly big sum by way of caution-money;
the priest simply united us without any questionings. We had not been man and
wife a week when the Revolution again broke out. Cracow was the centre of the
Polish rising. At first the Polish rebels fought with great success. I saw the
Polish scythemen drive my husband's cavalry regiment from one end of the street
to the other. My husband had not even time to say good-bye to me.' "'Then you
are a Pole?' said I. "'Why shouldn't I be?' replied Anna. 'Surely I may be a
Pole though I have a German name? Dark days followed. My little girl was born.
Twice a day I felt bound to go to church--the first time to pray that my country
might triumph, and the second time to pray that my husband might return to me. A
mad idea, wasn't it? Surely it is impossible for Deity even to grant two
diametrically opposite prayers at the same time? My husband returned indeed to
Cracow, but the Polish cause was crushed. The champions of freedom fled in all
directions, and the garrison troops returned. It was a sad meeting. After that
catastrophe Cracow ceased to be a republic, and was incorporated with the
Austrian hereditary possessions as a simple city. My father wept, but I rejoiced
because I had got my husband back. But very soon I was punished for my criminal
joy. My husband informed me that things were going badly with us. Hitherto the
Austrian officers in Cracow had not been wont to ask the permission of their
general to marry. Now, however, when Cracow had been joined to Austria, the
military regulations of the rest of the empire had been extended to us, and a
lieutenant's wife had to pay down caution-money to the amount of 7,000 florins.
My father was incapable of raising such a sum. He had another daughter besides
me, and could not withdraw so large a sum from his business. Danger threatened
us if my husband's superiors discovered his marriage, for in such a case
Kvatopil would have been degraded to the ranks. My father suggested that
Kvatopil should quit the profession of arms and settle down to some sort of
profession. But it was an impossible idea. Who would give employment in Cracow
to an Austrian officer who had taken up arms against the Poles? "'Just about
this time, too, Kvatopil was promoted to the rank of senior lieutenant. This at
once inflamed our hearts with the joyous hope that he would rapidly scale the
ladder of promotion, and we knew that if once he became a major he would not
have to deposit his matrimonial caution-money, and we might then fearlessly
publish the fact that we were man and wife. Nobody knew of it hitherto except
our friends and relations. "'So we agreed to keep it quiet, and immediately
afterwards Kvatopil and his regiment were transferred to Hungary. "'Since the
revolution broke out in Hungary I have heard nothing more of Kvatopil. I know
not where he is, or what has become of him, or whether he is alive or dead: no
tidings of him whatever. In times of war they make a mystery of the whereabouts
of this or that regiment. "'Once we read from a bulletin that my husband's
regiment had taken part in a battle in the Banat. My poor father then resolved
to go personally to the Banat and inquire of the colonel whether my husband was
still alive. Just as he got there, they were burying the colonel with great
pomp. He had died of typhus fever. He had been the witness of our marriage, and
was the only one of the officers who knew anything about it. He had kept his
secret well, for his officiating as a witness at an irregular ceremony might
have cost him his place also. All that the lieutenant-colonel could tell us of
Kvatopil was, that his company had been detached on some expedition, and had not
come back. Possibly the Hungarian insurgents had eaten them all up. "'I could
thus very well put on and wear mourning, and till the end of the war I heard not
a word about my husband.' "So far spoke Anna; but now I began to speak. "'You
didn't hear of him, because all through the campaign he was closely invested in
the besieged Temesvar with his company, and no news could come out of that place
till the end of the year.' "'But why couldn't he let me hear from him when
Temesvar was free again? He could at least have written that he was still
alive?' "'The cause of that is easy to find. So far as he was concerned, the
whole campaign was sterile of glory. As a cavalry officer he was unable to be of
any service to the besieged city. At the end of the campaign he still remained a
senior lieutenant, whilst all the others had reached the rank of captain. Bitter
disappointment was all that remained to him. An officer who is passed over is
worse off than if he were dead. He cannot even say, "Thank God, I am still
alive!"' "'But subsequently? In all these latter years? Why didn't he write to
me all these three or four years, if but a line to say that he was still alive
and thinking of me, and of the child whom he loved so much?' "'I can tell you
the reason of that also,' I said. 'To save a frivolous comrade, he got into
debt, and fell into the hands of unmerciful usurers, who immediately dragged him
deeper into the mire. An officer in such a vexatious position is certainly not
very much inclined to fetter himself with a wife and child as well. It is now
not only the want of the caution-money which separates him from you, but also
that nasty bog called Debt. This bog he cannot wade through. If under such
circumstances he thinks of his wife and child, that only increases his despair.
If he wrote you a letter at all, it would only contain these lines: "By the time
you read these lines I shall have ceased to exist."' "Anna was curious to know
how far into debt Kvatopil had actually got. I immediately mentioned the neat
little sum it amounted to. "You should have seen what a long face my friend
pulled. "She asked me in consternation whether this immense load of debt still
remained upon him. "The situation was so droll that, despite all its bitterness,
I couldn't help laughing. I could read from the poor simple creature's face that
if I were to say to her, 'My dear, sweet friend, debt is the one thing in this
earth which the tooth of time never nibbles, Kvatopil's bills still live' (this
was quite true, but they were living in my strong box), she would have been
capable, poor, unhappy lady! of taking her little girl by the hand and walking
all the way back to Cracow. But I was sorry for the poor thing. I told her the
pure naked truth. Four years long her husband had told her nothing of his goings
on because of his creditors, but after that time because of me. I made his
acquaintance; I did not know that he was married; I fell in love with him, and--
offered him my hand. I was bound to acknowledge that he had hesitated to accept
it. He made all sorts of excuses except the unexceptionable one that he had a
wife already. But as he was already up to his eyes in hot water he had had no
choice but to blow his brains out or commit bigamy. Apparently he had regarded
the latter alternative as the less unpleasant one. "Anna herself admitted that
it was very much wiser of Kvatopil to have chosen the latter course. What a
good, affectionate creature the woman was! "I then satisfied her that I had paid
off all worthy Kvatopil's debts before his marriage. I even showed her the bills
preserved in my strong box, explaining to her besides that they had now expired,
but that I did not mean to proceed against Kvatopil for the amount in spite of
our altered relations. At this the good soul fell down at my feet, shedding
tears of gratitude. She even kissed my knees, and assured me that she would
bless my memory to the very day of her death. Ever since this comforting
reassurance on my part, her tender inclination for the beloved Kvatopil was
perfectly re-established. "I put the finishing touch to my kind-heartedness by
describing to her the scene when Kvatopil, as bridegroom, fell to weeping
bitterly after the wedding; there could be no doubt that those bitter tears were
shed on account of his forsaken wife and daughter. "This quite overcame poor
Anna. 'Look now, what a good heart poor Kvatopil has!' said she. "Then we began
quoting to each other the various noble traits that we had mutually discovered
in Kvatopil's character...."

--"Well, did you find the pig's ears with beans to your liking, sir?" inquired
the cook of me at that moment, as she came in to change the dishes. "On my word
of honour as a poet, I have never tasted such pig's ears and beans," I replied.
An apricot pasty followed, of which--I confess it freely--I am also fond. Bessy
then continued her story:--

"I went to my lawyer, put my case before him, and asked him what he advised me
to do in my situation. I applied to him first (a dry, prosaic man, with his
mental vision bounded by the law); after that, I wanted to lay the matter before
you, that you might judge between us." "Between whom?" "Between me and my
lawyer, for we are of diametrically opposite views as to what I ought to do
next." "Then you have a view on the subject, too?" "Of course I have; but listen
first to the view of the man learned in the law, and before you do that, let us
drink to the health of those we love, and those who love us." We drank the toast
accordingly, but we mentioned no names. "And now listen to the opinion of the
lawyer:--

"'It is a great misfortune, certainly,' he said, 'but the only person to suffer
will be Anna Dunkircher. If we lived in ordinary peaceful times, the business
might be settled by the military authorities compelling Lieutenant Wenceslaus
Kvatopil to renounce his rank by marrying contrary to the regulations. In that
case the marriage contracted with Anna Dunkircher would remain valid. On the
other hand, according to the tenor of the Austrian criminal law, Mr. Kvatopil
would then have the pleasant prospect of two years' imprisonment for the
subsequently committed crime of bigamy. Nevertheless, under our present
circumstances, when the army of Lombardy has great need of every valiant and
experienced officer, the Cracow wife would, undoubtedly, get this answer for her
trouble: "Your marriage has been contracted illegally, and is consequently null
and void." The parson who joined them would be sent for a twelvemonth to a
monastery, by way of penitential discipline; but Wenceslaus Kvatopil would
remain a lieutenant, or even, if he distinguished himself, become a captain.
You, consequently, will be Mrs. Lieutenant, and perhaps Mrs. Captain, for the
annulling of the former marriage will restore to you all your rights.' "Those
were the lawyer's words. I laid them to heart. Now, do you know anything of
martial law?" "I frankly confess that martial law occupies a most prominent
place among those sciences which I do _not_ know." "Well, I'll tell you what I
replied to him. 'Good!' I said, 'the laws, the circumstances, the position of
things, everything, in fact, proves and proves to demonstration that Anna
Dunkircher has forfeited all her marital rights; but has not the law of the
human heart also its validity? Do I express myself in proper legal
phraseology?'" At this I couldn't help laughing, but she proceeded with her
story. "My lawyer was very far indeed from laughing. 'What!' said he, 'do you
imagine that Wenceslaus Kvatopil's heart still beats for his first wife whom he
deserted--to whom he did not write of set purpose, not even when he could, lest
he might thus have supplied some written testimony to the fact of her really
having been Wenceslaus Kvatopil's lawful spouse, and not merely some betrayed
girl with whom he had, at some time or other, unlawfully cohabited? Do you fancy
that Wenceslaus Kvatopil, thirteen years after the event, is still so romantic
as to ask for his dismissal from the service in the middle of a campaign, on the
very field of battle, and desert the standard of his Sovereign, whom he has
sworn to obey, simply to enable Anna Dunkircher to save her matronly dignity? Do
you fancy that Wenceslaus Kvatopil will throw up his career at the very moment
when it is full of the most brilliant hopes for him, and allow himself to be
shut up as a felon for a couple of years, at the end of which time he will be
discharged a branded beggar, simply to live for the rest of his life as the
lawful husband of a beggar woman even more beggarly than himself? And finally,
do you imagine that Wenceslaus Kvatopil has so completely lost the use of his
five senses as to be capable of spurning away from him, and exposing to the
contempt of the whole world, a young and lovely consort like yourself, a rich
and noble lady who can keep him in comfort for the rest of his days--and all for
what? for the sake of taking back a faded, withered woman, whose face is
wrinkled with care, who is the daughter of an honest glover, to whom it would be
no advantage to stick the name of Kvatopil on his sign-board instead of the
time-honoured firm of Dunkircher? No, madam. That he is such a good-hearted man
as all that I do not for one moment believe. I would as soon believe in sea-
maidens with finny tails--upon my word I would.' "I did not interrupt my lawyer.
I allowed him to have his say out. But when he made a brief pause, I said to
him: 'I am not speaking of Kvatopil's heart, but of my own.' "'Your own?' cried
he, in amazement. 'What has _your_ heart got to do with it?' "'I have my own
notion of settling this painful business,' I said. 'I propose to transfer to
Anna Dunkircher the surety-money which I deposited on the occasion of our
marriage, and then she will have satisfied the conditions imposed on officers
who marry--and may she and her husband be happy. I can easily disappear
somewhere in the crowd. The world is large.' "At this the lawyer flew into a
passion. 'If you do that,' he cried, 'you are only fit to be locked up in a
lunatic asylum at Döbling.' "Nevertheless," concluded Bessy, "it is my serious
and fixed resolve to do so." I could not help laying my hand on hers. What true,
what noble sentiments were slumbering in that heart! If only she had had some
one to awaken them! What an excellent lady might have been made out of this
woman, if she had only met with a husband who, in the most ordinary acceptance
of the word, had been a good fellow, as is really the case with about _nine_ men
out of every ten. Why should she have always managed to draw the unlucky _tenth_
out of the urn of destiny? She guessed my thoughts during that moment of
silence. Those large, deep fiery eyes slowly filled with tears. The fire of a
diamond is nothing to be compared with the fiery sparkle of those tears. How
lovely she was at that moment! Her lips began to quiver, and she could scarcely
pronounce the words:

"_That other woman had a child._"

And at this she began to sob convulsively, covering her face with one hand, and
squeezing my hand violently with the other. My heart was so touched that, a very
little more, and I should have mingled my tears with hers. When she had wept out
her bitter mood, she sighed deeply, and dried her tears. "Now you know why I
asked you to come here," said she. "Be you the judge in this matter. Which is
right, the reason or the heart? Am I to do what my lawyer advises, or what my
own feelings suggest?" It was a difficult matter. "Let us see," I said, "can't
we hit upon some middle course? I advise you neither to do what your lawyer
advises nor what you yourself propose. Wait a bit. The great war is still going
on, more than a million of warriors are standing face to face. Not a fifth part
of that number will return to their homes when the war is over. In this war your
Kvatopil will either fall or remain alive. If he falls, you can both go into
mourning. You need not quarrel about the widow's veil. If, however, Kvatopil
survives the end of the war, a brave and ambitious officer like him will
undoubtedly have mounted higher on the ladder of promotion--the battle-field is
the forcing house of advancement! He will have become a major, and as major he
will not be required to deposit[109] any matrimonial caution-money. He can then
take his Anna Dunkircher, and you will have no need to surrender your guarantee
money, which you want very much yourself." [Footnote 109: I say this of past
times.--M. J.] "I thank you," said the lady. "'Tis every bit as simple as the
egg of Columbus. Then we'll wait, Anna and I, till the war is over, and till
then we'll make one family." "Let me call your attention to one thing, however.
For the present it would be well if you were to hide yourself somewhere, in some
little town, for instance, where nobody knows you. Here, in this capital, you
will quickly find yourself in an awkward and untenable position. The story of
the first wife will very quickly be known by all the world. The title of _straw-
widow_ would do pretty well perhaps, but the title of _straw-wife_ won't do at
all. Pack up your traps, I say, go straight off to the country to-morrow, and
take your guests along with you." "I'll do so." We had scarcely finished
speaking when the doctor knocked at the door. When there's sickness in the house
one cannot deny oneself to the doctor. The doctor, too, was an old acquaintance
of mine. He had a very extensive practice, and he was a homœopathist. I could
take it as absolutely certain that when he went his rounds among his patients on
the morrow, he would let them have, in addition to their _nux vomica_, or
whatever else it might be, the very latest bit of scandal--to wit, that he had
found me closeted with the pretty lady, and both of us in our cups--tea-cups of
course. I waited till he came back from his little patient. He satisfied us that
there was now no danger, and she might leave her bed. Bessy asked whether the
girl might be taken into the country. "Yes, it will do her good." The doctor and
I left at the same time. I had no sooner got out of the door than I again
stumbled upon Tóni Sági. "_Corpo di Bacco!_ And you have been sitting all this
time with that pretty young lady?" "And you have been walking all the time in
front of the door, eh?" The window of the house opposite was full of inquisitive
female faces. I rushed into a coach and had myself driven to the railway
station. The same evening I was at Szeged. There I remained for three days, and
stayed with my wife till her provincial engagement was over. On every one of
these three days one or two anonymous letters reached my wife from Buda-Pest of
the following import: "My poor dear friend,--Your husband passes whole nights
and days with his former lady-love, the lieutenant's wife. Our hearts bleed for
you. The whole town knows all about it." How we did laugh at these letters! But
what if I had _not_ traversed the intentions of our _dear friends_? CHAPTER XIX

ESAIAS MEDVÉSI[110]

[Footnote 110: Bearish.] It fared with Wenceslaus Kvatopil as I had predicted. I
am very sorry, but I really can't help it. Willingly would I bring him back a
full major if it depended on me; but it was written in the book of fate that the
worthy officer was to end his heroic career on the battle-field. He had at least
the consolation of falling in a famous battle. While MacMahon at Solferino broke
through the mass of Schlick's forces, Benedek on the right wing pressed
victoriously forwards and drove the Piedmontese army under Victor Emmanuel as
far back as San Martino, and there it was that a mortal bullet struck Captain
Kvatopil through the heart. Yet I am able to say that at that moment the kisses
of his lovely wife pressed the lips of nobody but his own deserted daughter. The
two widows could now share the widow's veil between them in peace. The bigamy
became known, but of course they could not bring an action for it against a dead
man. The events of those great days quickly obliterated all recollection of the
petty scandal. Both Anna and Bessy could now assume the title of Widow Kvatopil,
and nobody could have a word to say against it. There was this little
difference, however, that while the one might style herself Mrs. Captain
Kvatopil, the other had only the right to Mrs. Lieutenant. By the intervention
of her lawyer, and with my consent as her guardian, Bessy recovered her
deposited caution-money. One thousand florins of it she gave as a gift to Anna,
who returned with it to Cracow to her father's. The rest of the money Bessy
invested in a pretty little house, in the village where she was stopping,
surrounded by a pleasant garden. I was now quite easy in my mind as to her
subsequent fate. She had now her own house, an honourable title--"_Özvegy
Kapitányné_,"[111] and a certain regular income. In the little village where she
was she could play a leading part. In her present situation, moreover, she was
completely protected against all the snares of the evil world, for in this
particular village every man was virtuous, and the women ruled them with a rod
of iron. To stumble, make a _faux pas_, and fall into sin was not possible,
because it was not allowed. [Footnote 111: Lit., The widowed Captain's lady.] I
could now be quite easy as to Bessy's prospects. A woman who had learnt such
bitter experience at her own cost could not help drawing conclusions from the
past; and if ever she were to make her choice again she certainly would not
allow herself to be led astray by superficial graces, but would judge him whom
she might definitely and finally select as the partner of her destiny by his
inner worth alone. I even took the trouble, with the true solicitude of a
guardian, to write this beautiful and sensible phrase to her in a letter. I also
impressed upon her not to give herself away to any official "for the time
being," or any other kind of dog-headed Tartar, for such a husband could only be
provisional. [112] She gave me her word that she would not do so. [Footnote 112:
Towards this period it was plain that the Austrian domination of Hungary could
not last much longer, and that the foreign officials who had been appointed by
the Vienna Court must speedily go.--TR.] For nearly four years I heard nothing
more of Bessy. She had fallen into the ranks of those women who do nothing to
make people talk about them, and this category is the best of all. Every year I
sent her the interest on her money; she acknowledged the receipt of it with
thanks, and--that was all. But I, too, had cause enough not to think of those
lovely but dangerous Eyes like the Sea. My evil stars were in the ascendant. Not
a year passed without a heavy blow descending on my head. At one time it was a
dear dead friend whom I had to bury; at another time I had to go through a
severe illness which brought me to the very brink of death; I had scarcely
recovered when my wife also fell dangerously ill. Through the conduct of persons
whom I had regarded as my friends I very nearly became bankrupt; I had to work
day and night at my writing-table to draw myself out of the mire. Then my
publisher bolted to America; then came a year of calamity, when nobody cared a
fig for either books or newspapers; then I had to fight a duel through no fault
of my own; and all along there was the wretched fate of my country, which
demanded my help. The whole plan of winning back our confiscated liberties was
_my_ secret; I was the organ of the Committee, the organ that was tormented,
persecuted, insulted by a derisive tyranny. Life under such conditions was like
a dreadful dream--an incoherent, continually shifting vision of hope, an eternal
nightmare; and when I awoke from this nightmare I found I was quite bald. One
fine spring the Fairy Queen of my fantastic dreams locked me up in prison by way
of variation. Nobody can escape his fate. I had founded a political journal. I
was its responsible editor and publisher. My assistants were the votadores of
the Liberal party. We soon had a large public. I had quite enough to do. It was
my business to write romances for this paper, and leading articles too. Once an
admirably elaborated article was sent to me, signed by one of the most
illustrious names among the Hungarian magnate families. Without more ado I
published it. It was a loyal, patriotic article on purely constitutional lines,
showing in the most matter of fact way in the world the justice and the
necessity of a constitutional government for Hungary. On account of this
article, the Governor brought both the Count who wrote it and the editor who
inserted it before a court-martial. He signified to the pair of us beforehand
that he meant to lock us up for three months for it. The court-martial consisted
of a colonel, a major, a captain, a senior and a junior lieutenant, a sergeant,
a corporal, and a private; the last four were Bohemians. Before this Areopagus I
delivered a powerful defence in German, to which they naturally replied "March!"
The tribunal condemned me and my comrade the Count to twelve months hard labour
in irons, on bread and water, with enforced fasting, loss of nobility, and a
fine of a thousand florins. When the sentence was read out, I said to the
President:

"This is very strange. The Governor promised us only three months." To this the
President replied with a smile:

"Yes, three months for the incriminated article, but nine more for your high-
flying defence." Our sentence was for no offence against the press-laws. Oh
dear, no! We were condemned for inciting to a breach of the peace. The Count and
I had been throwing stones at the windows, and breaking the gas-lamps in
Kerepesi Street! It was as public brawlers that we were sent to cool our heels
in jail! The reader must not expect me, however, to weave a martyr's crown for
myself, or describe the tortures of the Venetian dungeons.... The whole of my
life in prison was a pure joke and diversion. The Commandant of the place, with
whom I lived, used to come every day to tell and be told anecdotes, and then
took me out for country walks. He had my writing-table, my books, and my
carpentering tools brought into my dungeon, and it was there that I turned out a
bust of my wife. The Commandant also was passionately fond of carpenter's work,
so we worked away together at our lathes as if for a wager. There was no talk
whatever of chains or fetters, and I was allowed to have with my bread and water
the best that money could purchase from the inn. In the afternoons my friends
from the Pest Club came to play cards with me, so that when, on one occasion,
one of my most radical acquaintances, Beniczky, entered my apartment and looked
around, he exclaimed with contemptuous indignation: "Call this a dungeon! Why,
there's no romance at all about this sort of thing!" Once I took my fellow-
prisoner and my jailer to my villa at Svabhegy, where my wife had made ready for
us a splendid supper. I tapped my new wine, and we amused ourselves to such a
very late hour that when we returned they would hardly let us into prison again.
Fortunately we had the Provost with us, and with our assistance he managed to
force his way in. And then my visitors! In the whole course of my life I never
received so many visitors as during the _month_ that my _year's_ captivity
lasted. In the following month, by the way, I had to make room for the editor of
the _officious_ government, who was also condemned by the court-martial for
disturbing the public peace. I was sought out in my dungeon by all sorts of good
friends, who came from far--lords and ladies, countesses and actresses. It
happened once that a magnate's wife, who was a great invalid, and therefore
could not ascend to the second flight where our prison was, begged us to come
down to her carriage, and there we received our visitor in the street--poor
slaves that we were! In fact, I had too much of a good thing. How could I work
when my admirers were crowding at my latch all day long? At last I had to beg my
jailer, with tears in my eyes, to sentence me to _solitary_ confinement for a
couple of hours every day, and write on my door the hours when I was free to
receive company. "Wasn't I in prison?" I said. I had an honest Bohemian lad as
my servant. His name was Wenceslaus. We soon got to understand each other very
well. I explained to him that at certain hours when I was sitting down to work
nobody was to be admitted--except when a pretty woman came to see me. _Honi soit
qui mal y pense!_

And singularly enough, one cannot imagine a more convenient place for an
assignation than such a dungeon as mine. I only wonder that our _bon-viveurs_
have not grasped the fact. And what a capital place for an afternoon nap such a
locality really is! The best advice I can give to any one who suffers from
sleeplessness is--get yourself locked up! Is it not a special mercy of
Providence that slaves can sleep so soundly? One afternoon Wenceslaus aroused me
from my sweet afternoon nap with the intimation that a pretty woman wanted to
speak to me. "Really pretty?" "Oh yes!" "Oh yes?" "Oh yes, yes!" It was indeed
"oh yes!" for it was Bessy. She was dressed in complete mourning, with a black
silk veil over her head. I saw from her eyes that she was in mourning for my
fate. I anticipated her by making her a compliment. "Why, how nice you look, my
dear ward! The country air seems to agree with you." With this I put a stop to
her tearful anxiety on my account. "I see that the air of a dungeon has not done
you much harm, either." "And how did you get in here?" "Not very easily, I can
tell you. They would hardly let me in. They said that the prisoner was confined
to his room. I thought of giving the warder a box on the ears, and then perhaps
they would have shut me up along with you by way of punishment." "That would
have, indeed, been a _heavy_ chain to bear." She laughed. "I understand the
allusion. My figure _has_ become a little sturdy, I know. What else has a person
to do in a little country town but grow fat?" "It is a sign of peace of mind," I
said. I offered her my arm-chair, and in this act of politeness she read another
allusion. "It has good strong legs, I hope?" said she, as she sat down in it. I
must candidly admit that her figure had grown pronouncedly rotund, but this by
no means injured her beauty. She really looked quite appetizing! I was very
glad, too, to see her again. "Don't take my remarks amiss," I said; "it is so
good for the poor slave when a smiling lady's face lights up the gloom of his
dungeon. A sweet, melodious woman's voice sounds so consolingly amidst the
clanking of his fetters." "I am glad to see that you preserve your good humour,
for I have come to you on a very serious business." "What! Then it was _not_
tender sympathy for the poor captive that brought you hither?" "That also--I may
even say principally. Every day I read in the _Fövárosi Lapok_ how many and what
sort of visitors you receive--noble ladies, pretty actresses, and what not.
Well, thought I, if they may go and see him, it is only my duty to go too. At
the same time there are other circumstances which have brought me here." At this
she furtively looked around her. "Won't they hear what we are talking about
through that door?" "Have no fear. That room is empty. My fellow-prisoner is
provided with a separate apartment." "I have come to inform you of something. I
have petitioned the office of wards to relieve you from your guardianship." "And
you've very good cause, too, I think, seeing that I myself have been under
guardianship for some time." "That's not my reason, however. But my position has
now become such as to make it indispensable for me to have the free disposal of
my money." "May I guess the cause? Another misfortune has happened. We have lost
our heart again, eh?" Bessy covered her blushing face with her silk veil. "Eh,
but how you do always detect a thing at once! You would have made a capital
magistrate." "But it is such a natural thing to suppose. You are so young, you
know." "I am well advanced in the thirties." "You are only four years over
thirty. I ought to know, for I was at your christening. Then you have once more
discovered your ideal?" "This time I most solemnly believe that I really have
found him." "But no provisional person, I hope?" "Don't insult me, please." "I'm
above such a thing. But, as your guardian, I would not have given my consent to
it; so I was bound to suppose that that was why you wanted to be freed from my
guardianship." "Not at all! In future also I mean to take your advice as though
it came from my own father. Scold me as much as you like when you catch me
tripping. I will continue to be your obedient ward if only you don't shut the
door in my face. All I want is my money. Believe me when I say I will do nothing
frivolous with it. The sum will remain to my credit, but I wish to be free to
use it as I like in the future." "I presume your bridegroom is some squire to
whom the amount will be of service?" "He is _not_ a squire." "Then perhaps he is
a merchant? That also is an honourable walk in life. In good commercial hands
the amount will yield a nice income." "He is not a merchant." "Then perhaps he
is a manufacturer, the proprietor of a saw-mill or a steam-mill?" "Neither the
one nor the other." "Then what on earth is he?" "My bridegroom is a worthy and
eminent schoolmaster, whose name is Esaias Medvési." "Esaias Medvési! But what
the deuce does a village schoolmaster want with twenty-five thousand florins?"
"I'll tell you presently. But I must go a little farther back first. Have you
the time to listen to my story?" "Of course I have: I remain at home all day."
"Will nobody interrupt us?" "My servant is a very sensible fellow, he knows the
rules of the place." "But won't they lock the door of the prison behind me?" An
ordinary person would have replied to this question that it would have been no
great harm if they did; but I pulled out the drawer of my writing-table and
showed the fair lady that I had _my own key_ for opening my prison door. At this
she laughed and seemed quite satisfied. "Well, I'll begin by telling you how I
made his acquaintance." "What, your Ezzy?" "I beg your pardon, but you must
always pronounce the name in full, or you will aggravate its owner. He is very
particular about giving to every one his full name and corresponding titles;
never breaks that rule himself, and constantly addresses me as 'Worthy dame
Captain!' It is in vain to call me 'Madame' in his presence, for he roundly
maintains that such a title belongs to the consort of the Prince of Transylvania
only. His motto is '_suum cuique_.' Oh, I've learnt such a lot of Latin since I
made his acquaintance?" "Oh, then you have been taking Latin lessons from him,
and so the acquaintance began?" "No irony, please! It didn't begin that way at
all. I suppose you know that in our little town there is a very well attended
Calvinist church?" "I know it pretty well." "And I am a very zealous church
goer?" "That I did _not_ know." "With us the laudable custom prevails of going
to church every Sunday for the purpose of devotion." "And to show off your new
bonnets." "Don't make fun of me, please. Esaias is not only the schoolmaster,
but the cantor and the organist as well. He has a splendid bass voice. When he
intones the verse--

'How blest the man whose walk in life ...'

the whole podium trembles. It was that wondrously beautiful voice which first
enthralled me." "But I should have thought that the organ would have drowned the
sound of the hymn?" "But not only in church have I had the opportunity of
hearing him, but at funerals also." "Then you condescend to go to funerals too?"
"Not as a habit. But you must know that most of the people there beg me to act
as sponsor to their new-born children. Now, two-thirds of our children seem only
born to die, and I am obliged to always go to the funerals of my little
_protégés_." "Then Esaias is in the habit of speaking and singing over them?"
"Yes, and what beautiful speeches they are too, all in verse." "So Esaias is a
poet into the bargain?" "Yes, he really makes most beautiful verses." "And I've
no doubt he wrote a nice onomasticon on St. Elizabeth's Day?" "He did nothing of
the kind. He's not that sort of man. It is not his habit to flatter anybody; on
the contrary, he always tells them the truth to their faces." "That is generally
the distinguishing characteristic of all Calvinist schoolmasters." "Well, but
let us keep to the point. I left off at the funerals, I think. I was struck by
the frequent mortality among our little ones, and set in movement a project
among the ladies of the town for starting a _crèche_. The idea found zealous
partisans. We soon found a large meeting-room; the ladies supplied linen in
large quantities; milk and other necessary aliments were provided by public
subscription; money we resolved to collect in the usual way." "By a charitable
concert?" "I see that you are a practical man. A charitable concert was indeed
arranged, and a committee of seven appointed to manage it. The sessions of this
committee were held in my house; mine was the most convenient locality, and I
had a piano besides. Each member of the committee had her part assigned to her:
one was to recite, another to sing a solo, a third to give a comic reading, a
fourth to play a piece on the piano, a fifth to dance a Hungarian dance; I was
to fiddle, Esaias was to sing the high priest's aria from the opera of
_Nabucco_: 'He who trusts in the Lord!' --You know the rest." "Of course I do.
At the first meeting of the committee one of the members had a slight
misunderstanding with another member, at the second meeting a second member had
a second misunderstanding, and by the time the fifth meeting was held Esaias and
yourself were left to practise alone." "That is, word for word, what did happen,
with this little difference, that we never had any practice at all. On the fifth
occasion, four of the six members of the committee sent letters of excuse. Every
one of them was ill. It was a veritable epidemic. Only the dancing master found
no excuse for himself. As he was the only dancing-master in the town he could
not go and lie that he had sprained his foot. "Esaias walked three times up and
down in front of my house, puffing away at his big pipe. Every time he passed he
looked up at the window, and, seeing nobody there, went on farther. "At last the
dancing-master came _chassé_-ing up; I could see from his grinning face that he
had some ill-tidings to tell me. Only people who have found some excuse for
covering their retreat come smiling like that. "'My lady! I am
inconsolable'--('I know all about _that_!' thought I)--'but I can't come to the
concert. Our gipsy musicians have gone to Pest.' ('What do they want there?' I
asked.) 'All the gipsy bands in the kingdom have assembled together for a grand
competition.... Now, without gipsy music I can't dance. Who can play me the
"_Bihari Kesergó_," I should like to know?' ('I will!' I said.) 'Ha! ha! ha!
that wouldn't do at all! What? _one_ dancer and _one_ violin-player!--it would
be a mere farce.' "Hereupon Esaias popped in. Seeing through the window that I
was no longer alone, he took heart and came in. He had not dared to do so
before." Here I intervened: "If I am not very much mistaken, I know this dear
Esaias of yours. It once happened to him, while still a student, that he sat
beside the priest's daughter at supper. He did not dare to say a word to her;
but in the afternoon he went up the church tower and courted the young lady from
one of the windows." "It is possible that it was he. I, however, made both the
gentlemen stay, that at least the coffee and 'cowl-skippers'[113] might not be
wasted. They did not wait to be asked twice, but ate with right good will.
During the meal we fully discussed the best means of helping forward the
stranded concert. Suddenly the dancing-master looked at his watch: 'Gracious me,
if it isn't six o'clock! I must be off to give the children of the chief
magistrate a dancing-lesson'--and with that he jumped up, kissed my hand, and
pirouetted off. [Footnote 113: A sort of dumpling.] "Then Esaias also rose from
the table, brushed the crumbs of the cowl-skippers from his coat, and said:
'Blessing and peace be with you!' --This was always his parting formula. Such a
salutation as 'Your humble servant!' or 'I commend myself to your protection!'
nobody has ever heard from his lips--no, not even his superintendent; for Esaias
is not _humble_ and not _your servant_, and does not commend himself to anybody,
nor will he tell a lie even as a matter of form. "'What! must you go too?' I
replied to his 'blessing and peace.' 'You have no six-o'clock school this
evening.' "'No; but why should I stay here if there's to be no practice?' "'Must
I, then, begin singing in my own house before a man?' "'It depends upon the
man,' replied Esaias. "'What am I to understand by that?' I inquired, much
astonished. "'What are you to understand by that?' said he, striking the leg of
his boot repeatedly with his pipe stem--'what are you to understand by that? It
is not very hard to understand, I should think. If a lawyer, a doctor, or a
squire were to come to see you and amuse himself here with or without music, not
a dog in the village would have anything to bark at; but if they saw the
schoolmaster come here at six o'clock in the afternoon--if they saw him, I say,
remain here last of all when the other guests were gone, then there would be
such a stir in Israel that men would be ready to stone me.' "'Do I stand, then,
in such evil odour as all that?' "'I did not say that you were in any evil odour
at all.' "'It is true,' he continued, 'that there are as many names written in
your album as in Charles Trattner's almanack. That, however, does a pretty woman
no harm. But me the Church would not forgive. If I get into evil odour, if I
overstep the line, I shall be sent packing.' "'Then celibacy obtains among the
Calvinists also?' "'Not celibacy, but we have the canonical prescriptions. A
canonical offence is a very serious business for a Calvinist priest or
schoolmaster. Let a man be a veritable John Chrysostom, and it will avail him
nothing if he commit a canonical offence.' "'And _you_ have _never_ committed a
canonical offence?' I said to him. "'Never!' he replied resolutely. And he grew
quite red in the face. He was so proud of his virtue." "Why surely this is quite
a new thing?" I interrupted--"a thing never known in the world before: a man who
is virtuous, and not ashamed to confess it?" "Quite unique, isn't it? When I
heard this I seized his hand and would not let him leave me. I could read from
his eyes that it was the first time he had ever felt the pressure of a lady's
hand. 'You have been candid,' I said to him, 'I will be candid also. You would
never approach a woman whom you had not led to the altar. I know it. Then you
shall lead _me_ to the altar!' "Even this did not seem to surprise him. His face
remained as motionless as a statue. "'That is soon done,' said he; 'but _respice
finem_! Man proposes, but 'tis an old dog that holds on. I am not like other
men. I am a very difficult man to get on with. You can't deal with me as with
those who look through their fingers at the goings-on of their spouses. If I
take you to wife, there must be an end to all this dancing and prancing and
gadding about, and flirting and ogling. My wife will not have to go fasting, but
she won't be allowed any junketing. I don't understand a joke. Do you see this
cherry-wood pipe-stem? If I catch my wife at any piece of trickery, I'll break
this cherry-stem across her back--take my word for it.'" I couldn't help smiling
at this. "And you, my dear, pretty ward, have actually taken the schoolmaster to
husband, cherry-stem and all?" "I should like to have taken him, but he didn't
surrender himself so easily. I assured him that I would submit myself to the
most stringent discipline of virtue, and if I transgressed against him, I should
not mind his beating me. But even that did not vanquish him. By no means
whatever could he be brought to sit down beside me on the sofa. He even pushed
back the chair on which he was sitting, when he saw that I was besieging him. At
last he brought his big guns to bear upon me. "'Look now, my dear dame, I know
very well that humorous habit of yours of never remaining long in one nest. You
deal with your sweethearts on a sort of give-and-take system. You are here to-
day and off to-morrow. Supposing now, that in the exercise of my marital
authority, I were to inflict an edifying chastisement upon you for your
flightiness, you might easily take it into your head to bolt, and there should I
be left in the lurch for the finger of scorn to point at. A Calvinist
schoolmaster cannot submit to the fate of an ordinary man. If my wife were to
leave me, I should be expelled from the Church with contumely. Then I should
have to flee. I should be as good as excluded from human society. Now, I am very
well satisfied with my present condition. I have a fixed salary of six hundred
florins in good hard cash, and my perquisites amount to about as much again. I
live honourably, you see, and I cannot afford to stake everything on a throw of
the dice.' "Then I talked big also. "'Listen to me!' I said. 'I have capital
sufficient to bring me in as much as your yearly income--that is to say, twenty-
five thousand florins. I will make over the whole amount to you by way of a
dower, and I am ready to forfeit it all in case I am unfaithful to you.'" "And
didn't your Esaias capitulate even then?" I inquired of Bessy. "He asked for
three days to think about it. I immediately hastened to you to signify my desire
that your guardianship might cease." "Then Esaias has still two days' grace," I
said. "I hope and trust he may be inwardly illuminated to say no!" "Then you do
not approve of my determination?" "I am a friend of truth, and I understand a
little about prophecy too. It doesn't matter to me if you surrender all your
capital as a sort of shrift-money, and your house as well." "Such a man as he is
worthy of it." "I'll take your word for it. You are something of an expert in
such matters! But one thing I strongly advise you to do: keep the garden
attached to the house at your own disposition." "Why?" "That you may have it
planted full of cherry-trees. I know the natural history of the Calvinist-
schoolmaster species. I know that what once he has promised he always performs.
I also know the natural history of the lady with the eyes like the sea, and it
is my belief that you will frequently give occasion for the employment of
cherry-tree stems." At this the fair lady sprang from her chair, boiling over
with rage. "What a gross monster it is! Poet indeed! A pedantic lout is what I
call you! They've done very well to lock you up. This is the last time that we
shall ever talk to each other." And with that she went, or rather flounced,
away. But I gave a great sigh of relief. "May she keep her word, and never,
never come back again!" I said. *       *       *       *       *

One of the first things I saw, on my release from prison, was the announcement
in the newspapers of the solemnization of the marriage. The bank also informed
me by letter that the amount there standing to the credit of my ward had been
transferred to her husband's name. Well, at last Bessy had got the _ne plus
ultra_ of husbands. For, really, the man who has reached his two-and-thirtieth
year without sinning against the canonical prescriptions must indeed be a
superlative treasure in the eyes of a lady who knows how to appreciate the value
of such renunciation. CHAPTER XX

CONFESSION

Well, the long and short of it is, confess I must, that I have a sweetheart for
whose sake I have been unfaithful, not only to my wife, but to my muse also--a
sweetheart who has immeshed me in her spider's web, and sucked my heart's blood
dry, who has appropriated my best ideas, made me scamper after her from one end
of the kingdom to the other, and whose slave I was and still am. Often have I
wasted half my fortune upon her, and rushed blindly into misfortune to please
her. For her have I patiently endured insult, ridicule, and reprobation. For her
sake I have staked life and liberty. Sometimes, when I have felt the pinch of
her tyranny, I have tried to escape from her; but she has enticed me back again
and would not let me go. Now, if she had been some pretty young damsel, there
might have been some excuse for me. But she was a nasty, old, painted figure-
head of a beldame; a flirting, faithless, fickle, foul-mouthed, scandal-
mongering old liar, whom the whole world courts, who makes fools of all her
wooers, and changes her lover as often as she changes her dress. Her name is
_Politica_,[114] and may the plague take her. [Footnote 114: Politics.] There
was one particular year in which I was over head and ears in love with her, and
did absolutely everything she wanted. On her account I fell out with a good
friend of mine who was the very right hand of my newspaper. I fought (also on
her account) a duel with pistols with another good friend of mine, who had no
more offended me than I had ever offended him, in fact, we had always respected
each other most highly. But Politica insisted upon it, and so we banged away at
each other. Then she hounded me on against a third good friend of mine, who was
an excellent fellow, and a Hungarian Minister of State to boot, and induced me
to endeavour to thwart his election. And I actually _did_ make this excellent
fellow's election fall through, this good friend whom I respected, loved and
honoured. Politica demanded it. What a parade she made when she dragged me along
after her triumphal car! She actually made me believe that I was now the most
famous man in the whole kingdom! And she made me _pay_ for her precious favours,
too! What _petits soupers_ for five hundred men at a time! What hundreds of
carriages! What toilets!... But in those days I was quite wrapped up in her.
After my great triumph a torrent of congratulatory letters and telegrams
showered down upon me. I had actually upset a Cabinet Minister! That _was_ a
triumph! Every one who, at any time, or under any circumstances, had been
acquainted with me, called upon me after my brilliant success. Old school-
fellows with whom I had formerly fought in the playground now recollected me.
There was a brisk demand for my autograph. I was proud of it all. I was not even
surprised, therefore, when one afternoon they brought into me a visiting card
with the name "Mrs. Esaias Medvési" upon it. It was very natural that she also
should visit me. The sunbeams of my glory had melted the ice of her displeasure.
Six years had now passed since I had seen her. I could imagine how she had
filled out in the meantime. Well taken care of, with no vexations to worry her,
harassed by no passions, what other fate could possibly await my fair ideal than
--to grow fat? All the more startled was I, therefore, when I _did_ see her. She
had grown quite gaunt. Her old-fashioned dress, which had been made to fit
fuller forms, hung loosely about her. Her face, once so rosy and gay, was now
lean and haggard; sombre wrinkles, which met together beneath her chin, had
taken the place of her roguish dimples. Only by her eyes could I recognise her:
they were still the eyes of yore. When she saw me she forced a smile, but I
could see how much it cost her. I have never thought it a proper question to ask
any one whose face has altered a good deal, "Are you ill?" but she herself led
up to it. "I have greatly changed, haven't I? 'Tis a wonder that you recognise
me. I have been very ill. I have just come from the doctor. I have been
suffering from a quartan ague, which our country doctors could not drive away."
"But otherwise you are all right, I trust?" "No, I am not. I fancy that my
physical ailment is only as stubborn as it is, because my mind also is not as it
should be." I asked her what was the matter. "I have come on purpose to tell
you. You always gave me good advice, and I never took it. It may be that I
wouldn't take it even now; but at least it would relieve my mind to tell you all
about it. I have a secret desire which is destroying my whole soul: I go to
sleep with it, and I wake up with it." "What desire can it be?" "If you but look
at my face, you can easily see that it is no sinful affection." "And yet it must
be kept secret?" "Yes, for I go about day and night with the thought of becoming
a Catholic." I was so startled by this, that in my amazement I knew not what to
say to her. "It is my fixed resolution. The only thing that can give to my soul
peace on earth and salvation in heaven is conversion to the Roman Catholic
Church." "How did you come by this resolution? There is no Catholic church in
the town where you reside." "But there is a monastery quite close to it, a
sweet, quiet, pleasant place. I am wont to go there when they are not watching
me. A mere accident moved me at first. Curiosity led me into the church when I
heard the holy chants through the door; but now it is devotion which leads me
there. Ah! how much more sublime a place it is than our bald, bare place of
worship. Wherever I look I see groups of holy figures who bless and beckon me.
And those sublime chants, which seem to come from the angelic chorus of heaven,
and ravish my soul away to a world unknown--but oh, how ardently desired! And
then the deep silence, which is scarcely broken by the solemn sanctus-bell; and
then the form of the priest himself, who, like a supernatural being, speaks
before the altar in a language which men may not, but God does, understand. When
I come out of such a church it seems to me as if I have been speaking to God." I
began thinking what would be the end of it all. The lady became insistent. "What
do you advise? What shall I do? My soul compels me to it." "My dear friend," I
replied, "you know that I am a Protestant--and as a Protestant I am liberally
and indulgently inclined towards every other creed. I _advise_ nobody to change
his religion, neither do I dissuade him from so doing. I have a real veneration
for the Catholic faith. I consider its ritual majestic and sublime, and its
ceremonies are undoubtedly imposing and touching. Had I been born a Catholic, I
should have been an ardent champion of my Church. But how can I approve of the
conversion of a person in your position? Do you not reflect that your husband is
an officer of the Calvinist communion?" "But it is the very prosaic nature of
this communion which offends me. For in what a dull manner do our elders and
deacons perform their sacred functions! Prayer, sermon, hymns--everything is
with them a mere matter of enforced routine. How can they inspire others who
have not themselves the gift of grace? Such people can only mock at and speak
scornfully of their neighbours' faith because they have no real faith of their
own." "But pray recollect that a Protestant schoolmaster loses his post if his
wife changes her religion." "He may lose his material comforts, but I lose the
repose of my soul." "My dear Bessy, I can imagine that a woman with
extraordinarily sensitive nerves may find no consolation in Puritan simplicity.
If you would seek refuge in true devotion, procure Allach's prayer-book--the
manual of Catholic prayers, you know. In that book you'll find everything that
is sublime, majestic, and heavenly in Catholic theology. Pray out of that book
when you are alone and nobody sees you." "That is not enough for me. Religion
does not consist in prayers and singing alone." "Then perhaps it is the pomp of
the external ceremonies which has such an effect on your mind?" "That affects me
least of all. But there is in the Catholic Church an institution as sublime as
it is comforting, an institution sufficient of itself to spread the Catholic
religion all over the round world wherever there are hearts that bleed, wherever
there are those who suffer from other than merely material aches and pains. That
institution is _confession_. It was a gross blunder of John Calvin not to have
retained that institution for the faithful. He did not know the heart,
especially the female heart. There is no greater torture in this world than to
carry about in one's soul night and day an evil thought which harasses and
pursues, and be unable to tell it to anybody. A Catholic woman can always find a
word of consolation for her despair, a hand stretched out to raise her when she
falls; _she_ has a refuge against the accusations of her own conscience; if she
has sinned, she can beg for absolution, and her soul is lightened of its load.
But who can absolve me? To whom can I tell that which tortures me within?" Her
eyes were fixed and staring like the eyes of a somnambulist who sees nothing
before her but a visionary world which others do not see, and at the same time
she raised her index finger and laid it on her parched and cracking lips, as if
to keep back the moanings of her dumb distress. I was deeply grieved for her.
She had no need to tell me what she felt; her features spoke for themselves, and
said how much she must have suffered since the last change in her life. "My dear
friend," I said at last, "you have now known me for a long time, and you know
that I have always been your well-wisher. If you have any bitter thought which
oppresses you, confess it to me. _Amongst Protestants every man is a priest._
That is our fundamental dogma. Confess to me!" She smiled strangely; just as a
sick man smiles when the doctor tries to persuade him that he really is well,
while he himself is thinking all the time: "Just you wait a bit, and I'll turn
the joke against you and--die!" "You will receive my confession, then?" "Yes;
and rest assured that I'll keep the solemn secret as sacred as a consecrated
priest." "As long as I am alive, at any rate. After I am dead, I don't care what
you do. You may then proclaim it to the world if you like. When I am dead, I
authorize you to write a romance about me, a romance like mine you have never
written yet. But _till_ then, not a word to any one of what you will now hear
from me. To nobody, not even to your wife! Promise me that! Your word of honour
on it!" "My friend, there is a crypt within my breast for buried secrets. Your
secret shall repose among the rest." She bent down to my ear, her burning breath
scorched my face, and she whispered: "I confess to you that I wish _to kill my
husband_." Horrified, I looked into her eyes, they flashed up at me like the
eyes of devils. That wish of hers was a real living wish. "And what I've said,
I'll do"--and she pressed her lips together till they were quite thin, and her
eyes distended into orbs filled with threatening fire. "Good Heavens! what
thought is this?" She looked at me with a malicious smile. "There, you see you
are no priest, and can give no absolution." "Nor would a priest give you
absolution either. A priest can impose penance for sin repented of, but he
cannot give indulgence beforehand for a meditated crime. A priest could only say
to you what I say now: 'Fly to God and cleanse your soul from this dark
thought!' How could you ever have suffered it to enter your soul, that good and
gentle soul of yours that used always to love and never to hate?" "Yes, such I
ever was, was I not? I was indeed a loving fool. You once wrote a tale which I
remember reading when a child. In this tale a distracted heart relates how many
ways there are of extinguishing life. Amongst other things written there is
this: that if honey is allowed to stand till it rots, it turns into the
deadliest venom. This is quite true as to the honey with which the heart of a
poor credulous woman is full, but it is _not_ true with regard to the honey of
the field. I have tried and found that it is not true." "Believe me, neither
case is true. In married life there is no such sea of bitterness as cannot be
made sweet again by a single drop of love." "Alas! what I suffer exceeds even
the power of your imagination. Contempt, degradation, is my daily bread. Insult
follows upon every step I take. When I speak, my words are misinterpreted; when
I am silent, I am chided; when I weep, I am bullied and brow-beaten." "Do you
think that perhaps your husband suspects your intention of changing your faith?"
"So much he knows, that I frequently visit the monastery, and often have talks
with one of the monks. I solemnly swear that I've talked to him about nothing
but religion and holy things. He, however, accuses me of the nastiest things.
Then when we sit together at table, he poisons every dish I eat by singing the
most derisive songs he can think of about those women who rave about cowls and
cassocks; in fact, he is _always_ singing such songs in my presence." "But, my
dear friend, you take these things too tragically. These derisive songs have
been sung time out of mind. Your husband has not invented them for your special
aggravation. Laugh at him to his face, and he'll hold his tongue." "Very well,
then. Let what he does to ridicule _me_ be forgiven. But ever since he has begun
to suspect my spiritual condition, he leaves no stone unturned to disturb my
devotions. If in the afternoon or evening, when the chiming of the cloister bell
is wafted over to us, I involuntarily join my hands together, he laughs at me:
'Ha! ha! ha! they are ringing the bells to call you to prayer, are they?' Now,
the Calvinists do not ring for evening prayers, neither do they sound the
Angelus, and this is a great grief to me. It is like rolling my bread in the mud
and then making me eat it. This continual ridiculing clings to me like tar; it
chokes, it nauseates. I feel just as if I were swimming in a sea of glue. He
relates to me the most villainous anecdotes about the holy images. Last Saturday
it rained the whole morning, and I could not go to town. He saw my impatience,
and said to me derisively, 'Never mind, _thou female_, it will clear up this
afternoon, for the Virgin Mary wants to dry her son's little shirt for Sunday!'
It was well for him that he left the room that instant, for I was very near
driving my knife into his heart!" I tried to quiet the excited creature by
saying that though this was no very reverent jest, yet it was not an invention
of Esaias's. This jest about the breaking out of the sunshine on Saturday
afternoon was a common saying among the Hungarian country folk, and, taken
seriously, had really nothing impious about it, representing, indeed, that
sacred figure, whom all of us are bound to reverence, as a provident mother from
the homely, rustic point of view. "I don't like to hear _that_ name on _his_
lips. Why, I sent away an old servant of mine called Marcsa for no other reason
than because her master was always calling her Maria, and every such time it was
as if a dagger were piercing my heart." I saw that the woman was really
suffering. It was a case where a heroic remedy was required. "My dear friend," I
said, "I cannot blame your husband. Your religious extravagance, which has been
not a little stimulated by the irritability of your nerves and the nostrums
which the provincial doctors have made you drink, is a question of 'to be or not
to be' for your husband. If you cling to the saints, poor Esaias will feel the
earth giving way beneath him. You are bound to one another, remember. If you go
and seek heaven in another church, you will only install hell in your own house.
Believe me, if your husband discovers your design, he will fly into a fury and
tear you to pieces. If I were you I should go to some medicinal watering place
and get your nerves braced up a bit." "I see--I see. You do not understand what
is the matter with me. You think it is a mere feminine ailment, which is,
generally, half affectation. Look at that recipe. The most famous doctor in the
capital prescribed it for me. I went to him, he diagnosed me. He said that the
country doctors had not treated my case properly. They had stuffed me full of
quinine, he said, and it was not the medicament that I wanted. So he prescribed
me another. Read it!" I looked at the prescription and saw it was arsenic. "The
doctor prescribed six drops for the first day, and a drop more every other day
up to twenty drops, and then back by single drops to six again. Then my fever
will return no more. But he cautioned me to keep most strictly to his
prescription, as the remedy was a very dangerous one. Is that so?" "It is." "I
have had it made up in the Józsefváros dispensary." And with that she drew out
the flask from her pocket and showed it me. "That will do for me. I will now go
with this prescription to all the ten apothecaries in the town and have it made
up by every one of them. _Ten times the strength will certainly do for him._"

Horrified, I seized her hand. "Miserable woman, what wouldst thou do? Surely not
commit murder? Wouldst thou poison thy husband's body and my soul? Every time I
have thought of thee I have seen thee before me in the idealized form of my pure
love of early days, and wilt thou now put horror and aversion in the place of
it? Give me that prescription!" With terrified, staring eyes, and trembling in
every nerve, the woman fell down on her knees before me, and when I said to her:
"Hitherto thou hast always had a place in my prayers, dost thou wish me to cast
thee forth from my remembrance with curses?" she began to smile. "_'Tis the
first time in your life that you have 'thou'd' me._ Let me then return the
compliment. But no, I cannot _thou_ thee. The word _thou_ cannot come out of my
mouth. Don't lift me up. Let me kneel before you. I fain would only weep, but no
tears will flow. Here is the prescription. Destroy it if you like. I was mad. I
knew not what I said. 'Tis true. If life be grievous to me, 'tis I who ought to
die." "What you now say is also a sin. Heaven does not give us that divine
spark, the spirit, only that we may fling it back again. Learn to bear your
sorrows in silence. Every one of us has his cross which God has laid upon him
that he may carry it ... If you would believe in the saints, follow their
example. _Be_ a martyr, if God so wills it--that is the _real_ Catholic
faith...."

She began to sob, but after some little difficulty I contrived to pacify her. I
also provided her with all sorts of good homely counsels. "A good wife," I said,
"ought to humour her husband, and not sit in judgment on his faults." I told her
to bring him to me and introduce me to him. Perhaps I might make some impression
on him, and prevail upon him not to press his crotchets too far. It was even
possible that I might find him some work to do, something relating to spiritual
subjects which might occupy his mind, kindle his ambition, and make him peel off
his cynical husk. No doubt he was a good and worthy man, who only needed to be
properly taken in hand to get on very well. The lady with the eyes like the sea
listened with many shakes of the head, but she had gradually grown much more
quiet. Those eyes of hers, how they could express gratitude! It really seemed as
if, beneath the influence of my words, her face was recovering the rosy hue that
it had lost. Alas, no! Vain thought! 'Twas not my words, but something else. She
arose and rallied her spirits. "Very well! I'll take your advice. I will endure.
I will be patient. I will down with every evil thought. I will show that I can
be a good wife. You shall be satisfied with me. But one thing I'll tell you. My
husband has threatened to strike me. If ever he does that, then God be merciful
both to him and me." Now I knew why her face had turned so red--"If my husband
dishonours me by a single blow, I swear that I'll seize a gun and shoot him
dead!" And with that she rushed out of the room. I felt as if I ought to call
after her: "Don't go home, wretched woman!" It was too late. She was already
outside the door. She had vanished like a vision of the night. CHAPTER XXI

MARIA NOSTRA. Ah! what an ocean of time has passed since this happened. It must
be twenty years, at least. It makes me giddy when I look back upon it. But how
many evil years there were, how many days that I do not love to think about! How
many have been torn from my side to whom life was a joy and on whom the future
smiled! And I still remain! Only here and there, now and again, perhaps, do I
encounter a grey-headed shape like myself, a relic from that brilliant time, and
what a joy it then is to look back upon those old days and say: "It is not so
good now as it was then!" Some years ago I was on a visit of inspection among
our large national State prisons. I happened to be at Szamosujvár and Illava,
where the aristocracy of crime is collected together, persons condemned to a
term of imprisonment exceeding ten years, all of them criminals once under
sentence of death, but reprieved by an act of grace. Here were interesting
studies of the night side of human nature. I also visited the Maria Nostra. Here
the female criminals resided, and nuns were the warders. This house of
correction can only be visited by special permission of the Ministry. There the
discipline is strict, but the prisoners are very well treated. Last of all we
visited the day-room, where the prisoners were at work. They all sat in a long
room, and were sewing. Those who could do the finer sort of work were at little
tables of their own. I stopped before one of such tables; a woman was sewing
some sort of child's garment. It is the rule that when a visitor stops before
the table of one of the felons, she shall immediately rise from her seat and,
whether asked or unasked, say what her crime is and how long her term of
imprisonment. She arose when I stood before her table. Her hair was as white as
autumn gossamers, but her eyes still flashed with their old varying fires--they
were still, as of old, the flaming eyes like the sea! In a dull monotone she
told me her crime and her sentence: "I killed my husband. I am condemned to
imprisonment for life." For life!--and life so long! "Can I not use my interest
in your favour?" "I thank you, but it is well with me here. I wish for nothing
more in this world." And with that she returned to her place and went on with
her work. Poor little Bessy! Last year I received a letter announcing her death.
It was her last wish that I, but nobody else, should be informed of it. THE END.
EYES LIKE THE SEA. BY MAURUS JÓKAI

12MO, CLOTH

A FEW COMMENTS OF THE ENGLISH PRESS

Half autobiographical, dramatic, and at the same time humorous, Jókai's novel,
crowned by the Hungarian Academy in 1860, is a delightful exception to the
tendency which is fast making fiction a branch of science instead of art.--
_Morning Post._

It is a strikingly original and powerful story ... The great charm of the book
is the manner in which Jókai analyses Bessie's character. All through the story
indeed we feel ourselves in the presence of a master of the human heart, and
again and again we come upon sentences pregnant with that wisdom which it is the
lot of but few to acquire.--_Speaker._

From beginning to end "Eyes like the Sea" teems with entertaining matter and the
English version is highly creditable to Mr. Nisbet Bain the translator of this
sprightly autobiographical novel.--_Daily Telegraph._

"Eyes Like the Sea" is an alluring book into which to dip at random ...--
_Academy._

"Eyes like the Sea" is one of those rare books that break all rules and defy
criticism by justifying their irregularities.--_Guardian._

It is good to know too that fiction in Hungary has a master so hearty, so human,
and so free at once from priggishness and _naturalism_.--_Saturday Review._

In some respects the heroine reminds us of Becky Sharp and in others of Manon
Lescaut, and in feminine dexterity and sexual eccentricities is no unworthy mate
for either.--_Athenæum._

It is truly, as Mr. Bain remarks in his preface, a brilliant example of the now
rare novel of incident and adventure ... The vigor of the book is astonishing.--
_World._

The charm of the original as a work of art loses a good deal in the translation
... none the less the book is extremely interesting. It is a sketchy and
vivacious summary of the more salient incidents in the political and literary
career of the eminent Hungarian poet and romancist, its author.--_Literary
World._

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS NEW YORK AND LONDON

Transcriber's Note: The following typographical errors present in the original
edition have been corrected. In the Preface, "pronouned preference" was changed
to "pronounced preference". In Chapter I, a missing period was added after
"Valsez là". In Chapter II, "would have withrawn" was changed to "would have
withdrawn", and a missing quotation mark was added before "you ought really to
be a tamer of animals!". In Chapter III, a missing period was added after "after
her wedding". In Chapter IV, a quotation mark was added before "They are all in
a very good humour to-day". In Chapter VI, "amongst us at the, Table of Public
Opinion" was changed to "amongst us at the Table of Public Opinion". In Chapter
VIII a missing quotation mark was added after "skiz and pagát...."

In Chapter X a missing period was added after "Newspapers he never reads". In
Chapter XIII, "beleagured fortress" was changed to "beleaguered fortress", "hide
yourself in the village of Isza" was changed to "hide yourself in the village of
Izsa", a missing period was added after "glass full of szilvorium", and an
extraneous quotation mark was deleted after "the hovel at Hetény". In Chapter
XIV, a quotation mark was added before "Forget what we have been speaking
about!" In Chapter XV, "Wencesclaus Kvatopil was decidedly an improvement" was
changed to "Wenceslaus Kvatopil was decidedly an improvement". In Chapter XVI,
"Kakas Mártin," was changed to "Kakas Mártin." The ellipses in Chapter XVII both
contained an extra dot (a period plus four dots at the end of a sentence, and
four dots following an incomplete sentence). The extra dots have been removed.
Also, a missing period has been added after "her various temperaments". In
Chapter XVIII, a missing quotation mark was added after "mutually discovered in
Kvatopil's character....". In Chapter XIX, "Özvegy Kapitáuyné" was changed to
"Özvegy Kapitányné", a period was changed to a colon after "said to the
President", a missing quotation mark was added after "left to practise alone",
and "piroutted off" was changed to "pirouetted off". In Chapter XX, "turn the
jok against you" was changed to "turn the joke against you", "the Józsefvarose
dispensary" was changed to "the Józsefváros dispensary", "the real Ca holic
faith" was changed to "the real Catholic faith", and a misplaced quotation mark
was move from after "taken in hand to get on very well" to after "sit in
judgment on his faults". Numerous Hungarian words have been spelled
inconsistently, sometimes with an accent and sometimes without, and some words
have been inconsistently hyphenated. Each occurrence has been left as it
appeared in the original text, except as follows: "Fövarosi" has been changed to
"Fövárosi", "Heteny" to "Hetény", "Honvéd" to "Honved", "Jokai" to "Jókai",
"Rakóczy" to "Rákóczy", "Sagi" to "Sági", "Segesvar" to "Segesvár", "Valy" to
"Vály", "Vasvary" to "Vasváry", and "Verchovszky" to "Vérchovszky". Also, the
section titled "A Few Comments of the English Press" has been moved from the
front of the book to the back.