CHAPTER I. *

*THE FLEDGLINGS LEAVE THE NEST. *

"Ah, God will never let us plant       Our tent-poles in the sand,     But ever,
e’er the blossom buds,       We hear the dread command,—     ’Arise and get thee
hence away,       Unto another land.’"

"Frid!" said little Dorathie in a whisper. Frid held up a hushing finger with a
smile. "Frid!" came again; in a tone which showed that tears were not very far
from Dorathie’s blue eyes. Frid’s hand was held out in reply, and little
Dorathie, understanding the gesture, sidled along the window-seat until she
reached her sister in the opposite corner. There, nestled up close to
Frideswide, and held fast by her arm, Dorathie put the melancholy question which
was troubling her repose. "Frid, be you going hence?—verily going?" The
answering nod was a decided affirmative. "But both of you?—both thee and Agnes?"
Another silent, uncompromising nod from Frideswide. "O Frid, I shall be all
alone! Whatever must I do?" And the tears came running from the blue eyes.
"Serve my Lady my grandmother," Frideswide whispered back. "But that
is—only—being useful," sobbed Dorathie, "and I—want to—be happy." "Being useful
is being happy," said her sister. "I would being happy were being useful," was
Dorathie’s lugubrious answer. "They never go together—not with me." "So do they
alway with me," replied Frideswide. "Oh, thou! Thou art a woman grown," said
Dorathie with a pout. "Right an old woman," said Frideswide with a sparkle of
fun in her eyes, for she was not quite twenty. Dorathie was only eight, and in
her estimation Frideswide had attained a venerable age. "But list, Doll! My Lady
calleth thee." Dorathie’s sobs had attracted the notice of one of the four
grown-up persons assembled round the fire. They were two ladies and two
gentlemen, and the relations which they bore to Dorathie were father, mother,
grandmother, and grand-uncle. It was her grandmother who had called her—the
handsome stately old lady who sat in a carved oak chair on the further side of
the fire. Her hair was silvery white, but her eyes, though sunken, were lively,
flashing dark eyes still. Dorathie slipped down from the window-seat, crossed
the large room, and stood before her grandmother with clasped hands and a
deferential bob. She was not much afraid of a scolding, for she rarely had one
from that quarter: still, in the days when girls were expected to be silent
statues in the august presence of their elders, she might reasonably have feared
for the result of her whispered colloquy with Frideswide. "What ails my little
Doll?" gently asked the old lady. "An’t please your good Ladyship, you said Frid
and Annis[#] should both go away hence." [#] Annis, or more correctly Anneyse,
is the old French form of Agnes, and appears to have been used in the Middle
Ages, in England, as an affectionate diminutive. Some have supposed Annis to be
a variety of Anne, and have therefore concluded that Anne and Agnes were
considered the same name. This, I think, is a mistake. Annas is the Scottish
spelling. "We did, my little maid. Is our Doll very sorry therefor?" "I shall be
all alone!" sobbed Dorathie. "’All alone!’" repeated her grandmother with a
smile, which was pitying and a little sympathetic. "Little Doll, there be
fourteen in this house beside Frideswide and Agnes." "But they are none of them
_them_!" said Dorathie. "Aye. There is the rub," answered her grandmother. "But,
little maid, we all have to come to that some time." "’Tis as well to begin
early, Doll," said her uncle. "Please it you, Uncle Maurice," replied Dorathie,
rubbing the tears out of her eyes with her small hands, "I’d rather begin late!"
Her father laughed. "Folks must needs go forth into the world, Doll," said he.
"Thou mayest have to do the like thine own self some day." "Shall I so?" asked
Dorathie, opening her eyes wide. "Then, an’ it like your good Lordship, may I go
where Frid and Annis shall be?" "Thou wilt very like go with Frid or Annis, it
we can compass it," replied her father; "but they will not be together, Doll."
"Not together!" cried Dorathie in a tone of disappointed surprise. "Nay:
Frideswide goeth to my good Lady of Warwick at Middleham; and Agnes to London
town, to serve my Lady’s Grace of Exeter in her chamber." "Then they’ll be as
unhappy as me!" said Dorathie, with a very sorrowful shake of her head. "I
thought they were going to be happy." "They shall be merry as crickets!"
answered her father. "My Lady of Warwick hath two young ladies her daughters,
and keepeth four maidens in her bower; and my Lady’s Grace of Exeter hath
likewise a daughter, and keepeth other four maids to wait of her. They are
little like to be lonely." Her grandmother understood the child’s feeling, but
her father did not. And Dorathie was dimly conscious that it was so. She dropped
another courtesy, and crept back to Frideswide in the window-seat,—not comforted
at all. There they sat and listened to the conversation of their elders round
the fire. Frideswide was sewing busily, but Dorathie’s hands were idle. The
season was early autumn, and the trees outside were just beginning to show the
yellow leaf here and there. The window in which the two girls sat, a wide oriel,
opened on a narrow courtyard, in front of which lay a garden of tolerable size,
wherein pinks, late roses, and other flowers were bowing their heads to the cool
breeze of the Yorkshire wolds. The court-yard was paved with large round stones,
not pleasant to walk on, and causing no small clatter from the hoofs of the
horses. A low parapet wall divided it from the garden, which was approached by
three steps, thus making the court into a wide terrace. Beyond the garden, a
crenellated wall some twelve feet high shut out the prospect. What it shut out
beside the prospect was a great deal, of which little was known to Frideswide,
and much less to Dorathie. They lived at a period of which we, sheltered in a
country which has not known war for two hundred years, can barely form an
adequate idea. For fourteen years—namely, since Frideswide was five years old,
and longer than Dorathie’s life—England had been torn asunder by civil warfare.
Nor was it over yet. The turbulent past had been sad enough, but the worst was
yet to come. Never, since the cessation of the Heptarchy, had a more terrible
time been seen than the Wars of the Roses. In this struggle above all others,
family convictions were divided, and family love rent asunder. Father and son,
brother and brother, uncle and nephew, constantly took opposite sides: and every
warrior on each side was absolutely sure that all shadow of right lay with his
candidate, and that the "rebel and adversary" of his chosen monarch had not an
inch of ground to stand on. Nor was the question of right so clear and
indisputable as in this nineteenth century we are apt to think. To our eyes,
regarding the matter in the light of modern law, it appears certain that Edward
IV. was the rightful heir of the crown, and that there was no room for dispute
in the matter. But the real point in dispute was the very important one, what
the law of succession really was. Was it any bar that Edward claimed through a
female? The succession of all the kings from the Empress Maud might be fairly
held to settle this item in Edward’s favour. But the real difficulty, which lay
beyond, was not so easily solved. Very little understood at present is the law
of non-representation, the old "custom of England," which was also the custom of
Artois, and several other provinces. According to this law, if a son of the king
should predecease his father, leaving issue, that issue was barred from the
throne. They were not to be allowed to represent their dead father. The right of
succession passed at once to the next son of the monarch. Several of our kings
tried to alter this law, but it was so dear to the hearts of the English people
that up to 1377 they invariably failed. The most notable instance is that of
Richard I., who tried hard to secure the succession of Arthur, the son of his
deceased brother Geoffrey, in preference to his youngest brother John. But the
"custom of England" was too strong for him: and though John was personally
neither liked nor respected by any one, England preferred his rule to making a
change in her laws. It was Edward III. who succeeded in making the alteration.
His eldest son, the famed Black Prince, had died leaving a son behind him, and
the old King strongly desired to secure the peaceable succession of his
grandson. He succeeded, partly because of the popularity of the deceased Prince,
partly on account of the unpopularity of the next heir, but chiefly because the
next heir himself was willing to assist in the alteration. His reward for this
self-abnegation is that modern writers are perpetually accusing him of unbridled
ambition, and of a desire to snatch the crown from that nephew who would
assuredly never have worn it had he withheld his consent. But though John of
Gaunt was perfectly willing to be subject instead of sovereign, his son Henry
did not share his feelings. He always considered that he had been tricked out of
his rights: and he never forgave his father for consenting to the change. After
sundry futile attempts to eject his cousin from the throne, he at last succeeded
in effecting his purpose. The succession returned to the right line according to
the old "custom of England"; and since King Richard II., for whom it had been
altered, left no issue, matters might have gone on quietly enough had it been
suffered to remain there. They were quiet enough until the death of Henry V.
But a long minority of the sovereign has nearly always been a misfortune to the
country: and the longest of all minorities was that of Henry VI., who was only
eight months old when he came to the throne. Then began a restless and weary
struggle for power among the nobles, and especially the three uncles of the baby
King. The details of the struggle itself belong to general history: but there
are one or two points concerning which it will be best to make such remarks as
are necessary at once, in order to save explanations which would otherwise be
constantly recurring. King Henry was remarkably devoid of relatives, and the
nearest he had were not of his own rank. He was the only child of his father,
and on the father’s side his only living connections beside distant cousins were
an uncle—Humphrey Duke of Gloucester—and a grand-uncle—Cardinal Beaufort—both of
whom were, though different from each other, equally diverse from the King in
temperament and aim. On the mother’s side he had two half-brothers and a sister,
with whom he was scarcely allowed to associate at all. He wanted a wife: and he
took the means to obtain one which in his day princes usually took. He sent
artists to the various courts of Europe, to bring to him portraits of the
unmarried Princesses. King Henry’s truth-loving nature comes out in the
instructions given to these artists. They were to be careful not to flatter any
of the royal ladies, but to draw their portraits just as they were. Of the
miniatures thus brought to him, the King’s fancy was attracted by the lovely
face of a beautiful blonde of sixteen—the Princess Marguerite of Anjou, second
daughter of René, the dispossessed King of Naples. An embassy, at the head of
which was William Duke of Suffolk, was sent over to demand, and if accepted, to
bring home the young Princess. The girl-Queen found herself a very lonely
creature, flung into the midst of discordant elements. She loved her husband, as
she afterwards showed beyond question, and she must have felt deep respect for
his pure, gentle, truthful, saintly soul. Yet, excellent as he was, he was no
adviser for her. It was simply impossible for her brilliant intellect and brave
heart to lean upon his dulled brain and timid nature. How could he, with the
uttermost will to aid her, help his young wife to keep out of snares laid for
her which he could not even see, or counsel her to beware of false friends whose
falsehood he never so much as suspected? Is it any wonder that Marguerite in
this sore emergency turned to Suffolk, her first friend, a man almost old enough
to be her grandfather, with a wise head and a tender heart, and thoroughly
desirous to do his duty? Poor, innocent girl! she paid dearly for it. One word
of cruel, contemptuous surmise dropped from the lips of a young nobleman,—who
very possibly had wished the fair young Queen to make him her chief adviser—and
all over the land, as with wings, the wicked falsehood sped, till there was no
possibility of undoing the evil, and Marguerite woke up in horror to find her
name defamed, and her innocent friendship with Suffolk believed to be criminal.
She did not discover for some time who was the author of this cruel slander: but
when she did, she never forgave Warwick. There is not the shadow of probability
that it was true. Suffolk was about fifty years of age[#] when Marguerite was
married, and he had been for nearly fifteen years the husband of one of the
loveliest women in England, to whom he was passionately attached. His character
is shown further by the farewell letter written to his son,[#] one of the most
touching and pious farewell letters ever penned by man. [#] He was born at
Cotton, in Suffolk, and baptized in that church on "The Feast of St. Michael in
Monte Tumba" [Oct. 16] 1396. (_Prob. Ætatit Willielmi Ducis Suffolk_, 5 H. V.
63.) [#] Published among the Paston Letters. But now another and a more serious
complication was added to those already existing. The dispossessed heir of the
elder branch, Richard Duke of York, had much to forgive the House of Lancaster.
He had the memory of a murdered father and a long-imprisoned mother ever fresh
before him. His claim was only through the female line, as the son of a daughter
of the son of a daughter of Lionel Duke of Clarence, the second son of Edward
III. who attained manhood, and who had predeceased his father. In respect of the
male line, he was descended from a younger brother[#] of the grandfather of
Henry VI. It was therefore only as the representative of Duke Lionel that he
could put forward any claim at all. But Richard was not good at forgiving. And
when, as if for the purpose of further entangling matters, and suggesting to
Richard the very idea which he afterwards carried into action, Henry VI. was
seized with an attack of that temporary insanity which he inherited from his
maternal grandfather, Richard, as his next male relative, was placed in the
position of Regent: a state of things so entirely suited to his wishes that
when, the King having recovered, he was summoned to resign his charge, Richard
coolly expressed his perfect satisfaction with the position of governor, and his
intention to remain such, since he considered himself to be, as heir general of
Duke Lionel, much more rightfully King of England than the cousin who had
displaced him. [#] Edmund Duke of York. The first sensation of Henry VI., on
hearing this calm assertion of Richard, was simply one of unbounded amazement.
"My grandfather," said he, "held the crown for twelve years, and my father for
ten, and I have held it for twenty-three: and all that time you and your fathers
have kept silence, and not one word of this have I ever heard before. What mean
you, fair cousin, to prefer such a claim against the Lord’s Anointed?" It was
not quite the fact that Richard’s fathers had kept absolute silence, since his
uncle, Edmund Earl of March, had been put forward as a claimant for the throne,
just fifty years before:[#] but in all probability the King was entirely
justified in stating that the idea was new to him. It is not likely that those
about him from infancy would have allowed him to become familiar with it, since
his delicate sense of right and justice was—in their eyes—the most tiresome
thing about him. But the question was not in his hands for decision. Had it been
so, no man would ever have heard of the Wars of the Roses. King Henry "had no
sense of honour," which probably means that ambition, self-seeking, and
aggressiveness were feelings utterly unknown to him. "Yea, let him take all,"
would have been the language of his lips and heart, so long as he had left to
him a quiet home in some green nook of England, the wife and child whom he
dearly loved, a few books, and peace. At times God’s providence decrees peace as
the lot of such men. At other rimes it seems to be the one thing with which they
must not be trusted. They are tossed perpetually on the waves of this
troublesome world, "emptied from vessel to vessel," never suffered to rest. This
last was the destiny of Henry VI. For him, it was the way home to the Land of
Peace, where there is no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying. For four
hundred years his spirit has dwelt in the eternal peace of Paradise; God has
comforted him for ever. [#] A full account of this transaction will be found in
"The White Rose of Langley." It was an unfortunate thing for Richard of York
that he had married a woman who acted toward his ambitious aspirations not as a
bridle, but as a spur. Cicely Neville, surnamed from her great beauty The Rose
of Raby, was a woman who, like two of her descendants, would have "died to-
morrow to be a queen to-day," and would have preferred "to eat dry bread at a
king’s table, rather than feast at the board of an elector. "[#]  Of all members
of the royal family of England, this lady is to my knowledge the only one who
ever styled herself in her own charters "the right high and right excellent
Princesse." The Rose of Raby was not the only title given her. To the vulgar in
the neighbourhood where her youth was spent she was also known as Proud Cis. And
every act of her life tends to show the truth of the title. [#] The words first
quoted were spoken by Anne Princess of Orange, eldest daughter of George II. ;
the latter by Elizabeth Queen of Bohemia, eldest daughter of James I. It was at
the battle of St. Albans—the first fought between the rival Roses—that
Dorathie’s grandfather had been killed; the husband of the stately old lady who
remained head of the household at Lovell Tower. His barony descended to his only
daughter Margery, who, after a good deal of hesitation among rival suitors who
greatly admired her title and fortune, had gradually awoke to the discovery that
she liked nobody quite so well as her old friend John Marston, though he was
nearly twice her age, and a widower with three children. So on him, with the
full consent of her mother, she bestowed hand and heart, title and fortune; the
former being in his eyes, alone of all her lovers, more valuable than the
latter. In her right he became Lord Marnell of Lymington, for until a
comparatively recent period the title of a peeress in her own right was held to
become the property of her husband as absolutely as her goods, and was conferred
by courtesy, as a matter of necessity, upon any second wife whom he might marry.
Two more children—Dorathie and Ralph—were added to the family: but only the
former now survived. It will thus be seen that Frideswide and Agnes were half-
sisters of Dorathie. The other member of the family not yet introduced was
Walter, the eldest son. He was at present a young squire in the household of
Queen Marguerite. Every soul at Lovell Tower was passionately Lancastrian. To
them Henry VI. was The King, and Edward IV. was "the rebel." In the house of the
next knight, half a mile away, the conditions were reversed: and the two
families, who had been old and firm friends, now passed each other on the road
with no notice whatever. Very painful was this state of things to the Lady
Idonia, the only sister of four brothers thus placed at variance. Her two
younger brothers, Maurice and William, were still on good terms with her, for
they were Lancastrians like herself. But the Carew family was one of those which
the political earthquake had shattered, and Hugh and Thomas were determined
Yorkists. It was the sadder—or should have been,—since the younger Lady Marnell
had been educated under the roof of her Uncle Hugh, during the prolonged
residence of her parents at the Court of Scotland. Fortunately or unfortunately,
Uncle Hugh and Aunt Mabel had contrived to impress themselves on the mind of
young Margery in no other character than that of live barricades against the
accomplishment of all her wishes. To be otherwise than on speaking terms with
them, therefore, was a much smaller calamity to Margery than to her mother. The
Lady Idonia used to sigh heavily when their names were mentioned. Yet to keep up
the friendship would have been no easy matter. Hugh Carew was granite where his
convictions were concerned; and not content with following them himself, he
insisted on imposing them on every body who came near him. It would have been in
his eyes a matter of principle not to allow his sister or his niece to speak of
"the King" or "the rebel," without letting them see that he wilfully
misunderstood the allusion. Idonia merely sighed ever this piece of perversity,
while yet their intercourse remained unbroken: but Margery was apt to flare up
and make an open breach of the peace. It certainly was trying, when she spoke of
the King (meaning Henry VI.) as in Scotland, to be reminded in a cold, precise
tone, slightly astonished, that she had unaccountably forgotten that His
Highness was at Westminster. It is not therefore to be wondered at, if Margery
felt the open hostility rather a relief than a burden, while her mother grieved
over it in secret. "’Tis strange gear," the Lady Idonia would sometimes say,
"that men cannot think alike." "Nay, fair Sister, why should they so?" was her
brother William’s answer. "This were tame world if no man saw by his own eyes,
but all after a pattern." "That were well, Ida," replied the graver Maurice,
"could all men see through God’s eyes." "Aye, and who shall dare say how He
looketh on these matters?" rejoined William. "Know we not that?" said Maurice.
"’The righteous Lord delighteth in righteousness; His countenance beholdeth
equity.’"[#]

[#] Psalm xi. 8. "On which side is the equity?" asked his brother with a shrug
of his shoulders. "Somewhat scant on both, as methinks. My Lords of Warwick and
Somerset are scarce they which, before giving battle, should look through a
speculation glass[#] to find the righteousness of the matter." [#] Magnifier.
"Perhaps it were hardly so small as to need the same," was Maurice’s dry answer.
"Nay, fair Uncle William, but I cry you mercy!" broke in Margery. "It seems me
you be but half-hearted toward our good King. Surely his, and none other, is the
cause of right and justice." "Gramercy, Madge! I am well assured I never said
they lay with that rebel," returned her uncle, laughing. "Methinks," said
Maurice quietly, "that King David was the wisest, which committed his cause unto
God. Never, truly, had king so clear and perfect title as he. But we find not
that he laid siege to King Saul, in order to come by it the sooner." "Dear
heart! prithee go tell that to the Queen," said William, still laughing. "Such
reasoning were right after the King’s heart." "The Queen fights not for
herself," responded Maurice. "It is easier to trust our own lot in God’s hands,
than the lot of them we love most. But mind ye not, Will and Ida, what our
Philip were wont to say—’They that God keepeth be the best kept’?" William made
no reply. He was silenced by the allusion to the dead brother, on whom the
Carews looked much as those around them did upon the saints. The interval
between the battles of St. Albans and Wakefield—five years and a half—had
changed most of the _dramatis personæ_, but had not in any degree altered the
sanguinary character of the struggle. Richard Duke of York was gone—killed at
Wakefield: Suffolk was gone, a victim to popular fury. King Henry and Queen
Marguerite were still the prominent figures on the Lancastrian side, joined now
by their son Prince Edward. On the York side were the three sons of Duke
Richard,—Edward, George, and Richard, whose ages when the story opens were
twenty-eight, nineteen, and seventeen. Which of these three young men possessed
the worst character it is difficult to judge, though that evil eminence is
popularly assigned to Richard. Edward was an incorrigible libertine; not a bad
organiser, nor devoid of personal bravery, though it usually appeared by fits
and starts. He could do a generous action, but he was irremediably lazy, and far
weaker in character than either of his brothers. One redeeming point he had—his
personal love for his blood relations. But it was not pure love, for much
selfishness was mixed with it. Perhaps really the worst of the three was George,
for he was not merely an ingrained self-seeker, but also false to the heart’s
core. No atom of trust could ever be placed in him. The most solemn oath taken
to-day was no guarantee whatever against his breaking through every engagement
to-morrow. The Dutchman’s maxim, "Every man for mineself," was the motto of
George’s life. Each of the brothers spent his life in sowing seeds of misery,
and in each case the grain came to perfection: though most of the harvest of
George and Richard was reaped by themselves, while Edward’s was left for his
innocent sons to gather. It may reasonably be asked why Warwick is counted among
the Lancastrians, when to a great extent Edward owed his throne to him, and he
had been a consistent Yorkist for years. It is because, at the period when the
story opens, Warwick thought proper so to account himself. King Henry, never
able to see through a schemer or a traitor, had complacently welcomed him back
to his allegiance: Queen Marguerite, who saw through him to the furthest inch,
and held him in unmitigated abhorrence, felt that he was necessary at this
moment to her husband’s cause, and locking her own feelings hard within her,
allowed it to be supposed that she was able to trust him, and kept sharp watch
over every movement. It has already been said that the decision for peace or war
was not left in the hands of King Henry. The woman who sat by his side on the
throne was no longer the timid, lonely dove of their early married life.
Marguerite of Anjou was now a woman of middle age, and a mother whose very soul
was wrapped around that bright-haired boy who alone shared her heart with his
father. Could she but have looked forward a few years, and have seen that for
that darling son war meant an early and bloody end, she might have been more
ready to acquiesce in King Henry’s preference for an obscure but peaceful life.
What she saw was something very different. How was she to know that the golden
vision which rose so radiantly before her entranced eyes was but a mirage of the
desert, and that the silver stream which seemed to spread so invitingly before
her would only mock her parched lips with burning sand? The fatal choice was
made for war, and the war had now been raging for fourteen years. The wheel of
Fortune had turned rapidly and capriciously, but York had on the whole been
uppermost. To the majority of ordinary Englishmen who cared at least as much for
peace and prosperity as politics, "the King" had meant Edward IV. since 1461.
England at that weary hour cared more for rest than she cared to know who gave
it to her. Edward, on his part, had "indulged himself in ease and
pleasure"[#]—which was what he most valued—and might have continued to do so if
he had kept on good terms with Warwick. For let Edward or Henry be termed the
King, it was Warwick who "had all Englond at his bedyng," and the man who
offended this master of kings was not likely to be king much longer. Edward had
sent Warwick to France to negotiate for his marriage to Bona of Savoy, the
Queen’s sister, and while the envoy was away, the master fell into the toils of
the fair face and golden hair and sweet purring ways of the Lady Grey of Groby.
As Edward had passed his life on the easy principle of never denying himself any
thing, he acted consistently in marrying the lady. Considering how few ever do
so, he had probably not realised that this easy principle is apt to turn in
later life into the sharpest of scourges. Warwick came home in a furious
passion, and carried his power, influence, and army instantly over to the side
of Lancaster. No man likes being made to "look small," and least of all could it
be brooked by a man of Warwick’s character and position. Edward paid very dearly
for his golden-haired bride, and whether the purchase was worth the amount it
cost may be considered extremely doubtful. Elizabeth Grey was not like
Marguerite of Anjou, a far-seeing, self-less, large-hearted woman. Her mental
horizon was exceedingly minute. She was chiefly concerned, like the creature she
most resembled, to obtain the warmest spot of the hearthrug for herself. Very
delightful to stroke and pet when all goes well, such quadrupeds—and such
women—are capable of becoming extremely uncomfortable companions in certain
combinations of circumstances. [#] Comines. Edward was not the only person who
paid that heavy bill which he ran up with so light a heart. Only one small
instalment of it was discharged by him. A heavier one was due from Queen
Elizabeth, wrung out through long years of anguish and desolation: another from
their innocent boys, discharged in their life’s blood. The least amount,
perhaps, was exacted from the most undeserving sharer in the penalty—that young
Warwickshire girl who was Edward’s real wife by canon law, and whose strong love
proved equal to the fiery ordeal of saving his honour and ensuring what seemed
his happiness at the cost of all her own. It cost her life as well. Edward had
the cruelty and baseness to call her into court to deny their marriage. He knew
her well enough to dare to do it. And she came, calm and self-restrained, and
perjured her soul because she thought it would make him happier and save his
good name. Hers was of no moment. Then she passed out of sight, and the
overstrained string snapped, and nothing was left to vex the triumphant monarch.
Only God saw a nameless green grave in a country churchyard. And when He comes
to make inquisition for blood, when every thing that was hidden shall be known,
I think it will be found that He did not forget Elizabeth Lucy. Yet Edward did
not escape quite without reproach. One person endeavoured to prevent this sin
and shame, and it was a very unlikely person. The voice of Proud Cis was the
only one raised against it, and her interference, futile though it was, is the
best action of her life. From the far north Edward received the passionate
reproaches of his mother for this dastardly action. They did not deter him from
its accomplishment: but let the fact be remembered to Cicely’s honour. [#]

[#] Some writers have disputed, and more have ignored, these miserable
transactions. Surely the interference of Cicely, and the language of Comines,
who was a personal acquaintance of the royal family, may fairly be held to prove
the point. Two months before the story begins, Warwick had taken advantage of
some quarrel between Edward and his brother George of Clarence to allure the
latter to the Lancastrian cause. He offered him an enormous bribe to come over,
being his elder daughter Isabel, with one half of her mother’s vast inheritance.
It must not be forgotten that all Warwick’s titles were derived from females. He
was Earl of Salisbury in succession to his mother, and Earl of Warwick only by
courtesy, in right of his wife. His two daughters, Isabel and Anne, were his
only children, and the richest heiresses in the kingdom. They were both
extremely beautiful girls, but Isabel was considered the lovelier. Clarence, who
kept neither a heart nor a conscience, was ready to do any thing, good, bad, or
indifferent, which promised to promote his own advancement in this world. He
accepted Warwick’s offer; and was now therefore in arms against his brother, and
a member of Warwick’s household at Middleham Castle, of which household
Frideswide Marston was about to form an item. *CHAPTER II. *

*LILIES AMONG THE THORNS. *

"Thy soul was like a star, and dwelt apart."—WORDSWORTH. "Aye, perchance that
may serve. What cost it by the yard?" _That_ was a piece of superb purple satin,
which the tailor was holding up for inspection, in the best way to catch the
light. "Five nobles, an’ it please my Lady." Five nobles amounted to one pound
thirteen and fourpence, and was the price of the very best quality. It is not
easy to reduce it into modern value, since authorities are disagreed on the
multiple required. Some would go as high as sixteen times the value, while
others would reduce it to five. Mv own opinion inclines to the highest number.
"And wherewith wouldst line it, good Whityngham?" "With velvet, Madam?"
suggested the tailor interrogatively. "Aye. Let it be black." "At your
Ladyship’s pleasure." "And I will have the cloak well furred with Irish fox. Is
my broched[#] cloth of gold gown made ready?" [#] Figured. "Madam, it shall be
meet for your Ladyship’s wearing to-morrow." "Well, see thou fail me not, for I
would have it for our Lady Day in harvest.—Well, Avice Hilton, what wouldst?"
Avice Hilton, who was a young lady of about eighteen years, had been waiting the
pleasure of her mistress for some minutes. "An’t like you, Madam, your new
chamberer that shall be, is now come." "The Lord Marnell his daughter?" "She,
Madam." "Hath she eaten aught?" "Aye, Madam, in the hall." "Good. Bring her
hither." Frideswide Marston was not a timid or nervous girl by any means, but
her heart beat somewhat faster as Avice Hilton introduced her to the presence of
the Countess of Warwick, the woman who had more of the reality of queenship than
either of those ladies whom the partisans of the rival Roses termed the Queen.
She saw a pleasant upper chamber, about twenty feet square, whose windows looked
over the beautiful vale of Wensleydale. It was hung with tapestry on which
scenes from the Quest of the Sangraal were delineated. At the lower end three
young ladies were busily at work of various kinds: on the daïs, or raised step
at the further end, nearest the windows, stood the tailor with his roll of satin
over his arm, and two ladies were seated, the elder in a chair of carved wood,
the younger in a more elaborate one inlaid with ivory. In those days people did
not take the seat they found most comfortable, but were carefully restricted to
a certain fashion of chair, according to delicate gradations of rank.
Frideswide, being a well-educated young person, as education went in the
fifteenth century, had no difficulty in perceiving that she was in the presence
of the Countess of Warwick and her daughter, the bride of the royal Clarence.
The Countess of Warwick was a rather slightly-made woman, but tall, with a long
pale face, haggard features bearing traces of great former beauty, and a
particularly prominent pair of blue eyes. [#]  As is often the case with persons
who exhibit the last-named feature, she was at no loss for language. She was the
daughter, and now the only surviving child, of that Earl of Warwick who had held
a conspicuous place in the burning of the Maid of Orleans, and of Isabel,
heiress of Le Despenser. All the old prestige and associations of the House of
Warwick centred in her, not her husband. How far her influence over him may have
been for good or evil, is not an easy question. What evidence there is, is
mostly negative, and tends to show that the Countess Anne exercised but little
influence of any kind, and was of a type likely to be more concerned about the
burning of the marchpane in her own oven, than about the burning of a city at
some distance. If this be so, she is much to be pitied: for of the seed of
future misery which Warwick sowed, the heaviest portion of the harvest was
reaped by her and by the best and dearest of her daughters. [#] All the members
of the Warwick family, and also those of the royal family, are described so far
as is practicable from contemporary portraits. The young Duchess of Clarence,
who was in her nineteenth year, was a woman cast in another mould. She resembled
her father in character, and her mother in features: but she was more beautiful
than the Countess had ever been, and was accounted "the finest young lady in
England." She was fair, with blue eyes and shining light hair, over which she
wore the new head-dress, which consisted of a most elaborate erection of wire-
work, surmounted by a veil of transparent gauze, so that the hair, for many
years concealed, was left fully visible. Head-dresses were now, and for a long
time had been, the most important portion of the female costume. The variety was
nearly as astounding as the size. Hearts, horns, crowns, and steeples, were all
represented: and a full-dressed lady, in all her paraphernalia, was a formidable
object both as to cost and dimensions. Frideswide found herself put through a
lively fire of interrogatories by the Countess, who might have been projecting
the writing of memoirs of the whole Marnell family, to judge from the minute and
numerous details into which she descended. The Duchess sat generally a silent
listener, but occasionally interjected a query. At last the Countess looked
across the room, and summoned Avice. "There, take the new maid to you, and show
her what shall be her duty," said she. "See that she wants for nought, and say
to Bonham ’tis my desire she be set a-work." Frideswide followed Avice to the
further end of the room, where she was introduced to her remaining fellow-
chamberers as Theobalda Salvin and Eleanor Farley. Beyond them, and hitherto
concealed by a chair, she suddenly perceived a fourth person, in the shape of a
little old lady, so very little as to be almost a dwarf, with the cheeriest and
brightest of faces. "Mother Bonham," said Avice, "’tis my Lady’s good pleasure
you set Mistress Frideswide a-work." "Well, my lass, there’s no pleasure in
idlesse," was the answer. "See you here, my maid: would you rather a white seam,
or some matter of broidery?" Frideswide, whose tastes inclined her rather to the
useful than the ornamental, chose the plain work, and sitting down among the
chamberers, was soon as busy as any of them. Mother Bonham was the most
important person at Middleham Castle, in the sense that without her every thing
would have gone furthest wrong. She was "mother," or official chaperone, to the
chamberers, which accounted for the title bestowed on her; she was general
housekeeper to the Countess; she had been nurse and governess to the young
ladies; and she was adviser in general to all the younger inmates of the house.
She was as great a hand at proverbs as Sancho Panza himself: she mixed
marvellous puddings and concocted unimaginable cakes; she drew patterns for
embroidery, told stories of all kinds, nursed every body who was ill (which
often included prescribing for them), praised every body who did well, smiled
on, at, and through every thing that happened to her. Only one thing there was,
as Eleanor confided to Frideswide, which Mother Bonham could not do. She was
totally incapable of scolding! The most severe thing she ever said was a solemn
proverb, prefaced by both Christian and surname of the offender. The use of both
names instantly informed a chamberer that she had fallen under Mother Bonham’s
grave displeasure. But so dearly loved was the little old lady that except in
strong emergencies, this was quite enough to recall the person addressed to a
sense of her delinquencies. Frideswide was rather amused to find that she had
again to run the gauntlet of inquiries concerning her antecedents from the
chamberers. She certainly had never talked so much about herself and her
relatives, as she did that first afternoon of her stay at Middleham Castle. The
fire of interrogations had slightly slackened, when a door opened in the wall
behind the tapestry, and pushing aside the latter, a girl of fifteen came
forward and sat down by Mother Bonham, who moved some embroidery from a carved
chair to make room for her. The chair taken, and the style of her dress,
sufficiently pointed her out as one of the Earl’s daughters. Though strongly
resembling her mother and sister in colour and features, the expression of her
face was entirely different from either. The piquancy of the elder sister was
wholly absent in the younger, and was replaced by a mixture of gentleness and
dignity. Very queenly she was—not in the false sense of pride, of which there
was none about her: but in the true sense of that innate kingliness of soul
which can tolerate nothing evil, and can stoop to nothing mean. A lily among
thorns was sweet Anne Neville. And the thorns sprang up, and choked it. She
stood now just

"Where the brook and river meet,     Womanhood and childhood fleet"—

but in the path to be pursued a turn as yet hid the river from view, and she who
was so soon to be borne down it could see nothing of the roaring cascade and the
black pool beneath, where the young life was to be crushed out, and the fair
soul to be set free. As Frideswide glanced at her, where she sat with her head
slightly bent over the broidery, and a sunbeam lighting up her shining hair, she
thought no face so attractive had ever yet crossed her path in life. "Tib, draw
thou the curtain across," said Mother Bonham. "The sun cometh too hot on my Lady
Anne, I reckon." Theobalda obeyed in silence, while Lady Anne looked up and
smiled thanks. "Tib is the best to do it," remarked Eleanor, laughing a little,
"for she is highest of all us. I do believe she should mete to twice of you,
Mother." "’Good stuff’s lapped up in little parcels,’ Nell," was Mother Bonham’s
good-tempered answer. Conversation flagged after this. Perhaps work went on the
better for it. Supper was announced in an hour, which was served in the hall,
Frideswide, as the newest arrival, being seated last of the chamberers, and next
to the Earl’s squires. She found her neighbour decidedly communicative. From him
she learned that the Countess was not ill to please, which was more than could
be said for my Lady of Clarence; but my Lady Anne was the sweetest maid in the
world. As to my Lord,—with a little shrug of the squire’s shoulders—why, he was
in his element in the midst of a battle, and not anywhere else. Rather just a
little queer-tempered—you had to find out in a morning whether he had got out of
bed on the right side or the wrong. In the former case, he could be very
pleasant indeed: but in the latter—well, least said was soonest mended.
Frideswide looked up at the potent nobleman thus described to her. She saw a man
of moderate height and breadth, with strong features, a florid complexion,
rather dark hair and eyes, and a very quick, lively, intelligent expression. His
limbs were well-knit and in good proportion, giving the idea of great muscular
strength. It may be added, though Frideswide of course could only learn this by
degrees, that Warwick was an extremely clever man, with that sort of serpentine
cleverness which regards any means as sanctified by the end proposed; full of
physical courage, but looking upon tenderness and compassion as contemptible
weaknesses only fit for a woman, and indicative of the consummate inferiority of
her sex. He was one of those men in whose eyes a good woman is simply a woman
who has hitherto found no opportunity of being otherwise. When the opportunity
comes in her way, she must be expected to take advantage of it, as a matter of
course. Clear-sighted as Warwick was in some matters, he was strangely obtuse in
others. A good deal of further information Frideswide heard from her next
neighbour, who told her that his name was John Wright. [#]  He informed her that
the King (by whom he meant Henry VI.) was in the Tower of London, a prisoner in
the hands of "Edward that rebel," who was not permitted by zealous Lancastrians
to enjoy even his ancestral title of Duke of York. The Queen was abroad, seeking
fresh help, and intending to take the first good opportunity afterwards to land
in England. The Prince of Wales was with her. [#] Name historical, character
imaginary. As for "that rebel," he of course was enjoying himself to the utmost,
residing in the palaces and squandering the finances which did not belong to
him: and as for "that witch his wife," Mr. Wright was ready to believe anything
of her—by which of course he meant, anything the reverse of complimentary. That
Edward was squandering money, whether it were his own or not, was only too true.
Never lived man in whose hands money melted in a more instantaneous manner.
During that very summer, he had spent on dress materials and "other necessaries"
upwards of twelve hundred pounds, and on jewellery and goldsmiths’ work £744,
inclusive of a gold collar which cost £34. [#]  Nor as we shall presently see,
had his extravagance reached its highest point. No King of England ever spent
like him. The degree to which he surpassed all his predecessors in this point
was an enormous one. By most contemporary chroniclers, Richard II. is accused of
having been a shocking waster of money:[#] but the Issue Rolls of Richard II.
reveal a state of things which is economy itself when compared with those of
Edward IV. Moreover, Richard’s extravagance, such as it was, was mainly in
presents to other persons: but what Edward spent was on his beloved self. This
was the more noticeable, as Henry VI. had not been at all given to spending
money; and Queen Marguerite, while lavish enough in her charities, was
singularly frugal in respect of her wardrobe. As for Edward’s Queen, her lord
and master, as his Issue Rolls bear witness, took care she had not much to
spend. May not this exhaustion of the royal treasury under the brothers of York,
account to some extent for the parsimony of which Henry VII. is accused? [#]
Issue Roll, Michis. 9 Edw. IV. [#] A supposition not at all borne out by his
Issue Rolls. After supper the hall was cleared for dancing. Then followed
vespers in the Castle chapel, rear-supper, a little general conversation, cups
of wine handed round, and the Countess retired to her oratory, and the Earl to
his closet. Last came the Countess’s _coucher_, at which three of the chamberers
were expected to be present, one being told off to assist the Lady Anne. The
Duchess of Clarence had her separate household. Frideswide found herself
summoned to the Countess’s chamber, where Theobalda instructed her in her
duties, which were simply those of a lady’s maid. The chamberera were then free
to seek their own beds. It was not until the next morning that Frideswide saw
the Duke of Clarence, who had been absent from the supper-table. He was the
least good-looking of the handsome royal brothers. "A great alms-giver and a
great builder" is the character given of him by the retainer of the House of
Warwick: but a more skilful hand than his, a hundred years later, sketched a far
truer portrait. "False, fleeting, faithless Clarence!" With the Duke came two
other persons—the brothers of Warwick, John Lord Montague and George Archbishop
of York. They were about as much given to tergiversation as their better-known
brother, with the proviso that in their innermost hearts they were a shade more
determinately Yorkist than he. Montague in particular was remarkable for his
power of versatility. His personal convictions were in favour of Edward, but the
least offence given to him by his chosen master was enough to make him veer
round like a weathercock to the opposite quarter. At the present moment some
such annoyance was rankling in his narrow mind, and he was therefore just in a
fit state to lend an ear to the persuasive representations of his brother of
Warwick. The marvel of the matter is how these three crafty, changeable,
unprincipled men contrived to trust each other. During two previous years,
Warwick had been dexterously drawing his net around his brothers. But now
matters were almost ripe for action. For the whole of the autumn he had kept
quiet and matured his plans. His reverend brother was quite as ready to his hand
as the secular one. Any thing which involved a plot or a tumult seems to have
been to the taste of this gentleman, who in seeking holy orders had certainly
not taken the course for which nature intended him. The four chamberers of the
Countess of Warwick slept in one room, into which opened the smaller one of
Mother Bonham. The furniture of the chamber consisted of two beds, large square
ones with a tester, or head, the one having curtains of verder, or tapestry, and
the other of dark crimson say, which was a coarse silk chiefly used in
upholstery. In the first bed slept Eleanor and Theobalda, in the second
Frideswide and Avice. The remaining articles were a large chest at the bottom of
each bed, with a division across it, each young lady having a half to herself; a
chair, two stools, and a fire-fork. Wardrobes were then kept in a separate
chamber; while dressing-tables and washstands were luxuries of the future. There
was a mirror fixed to the wall, almost too high to see—a position adopted for
the discouragement of personal vanity: while every morning a bowl of water and a
towel (to serve all four) was brought up by a slip-shod girl, one of half-a-
dozen who did the dirtiest work of the house. One evening in November, after the
lights were out, and Mother Bonham and Theobalda were peacefully asleep, while
Eleanor was perpetrating a sound so nearly akin to snoring that her fastidious
taste would have been shocked had she known it, Frideswide, whose eyes were
disinclined to close, heard a soft whisper from Avice beside her. "Are you
waking?" "Oh aye," she said in a similar tone, and turning round towards Avice
to hear the better what she wished to say. "Your father, if I err not, is the
Lord Marnell, that dwelleth at Lovell Tower, on the wolds?" "Aye so," said
Frideswide. "Were you loth I should know of what kin you be to the Lady Margery,
that died, an old man’s life past, on Tower Hill?" It was no wonder if
Frideswide held her breath for a moment, and listened whether all the rest were
safely asleep. The reference to a Lollard and a martyr, in the past of any
family, had been safe enough during the latter half of Henry VI.’s reign, but it
had already been pretty plainly shown not to be equally wise in that of Edward
IV. "Look you," she said, after that momentary pause, "it is my step-dame, not
my father, that is verily a Marnell. The lady whom you wot of was her
grandame—to wit, her father’s mother." "Of no kin to you, then?" asked Avice, in
a tone in which Frideswide fancied she heard a shade of disappointment. "Nay,
that can I not rightly say," was the reply: "for Dame Agnes Lovell, the Lady’s
mother, which was by birth a Greenhalgh, was sister unto Mistress Ladreyne
Clitheroe, whose daughter Maud was my grandmother. So you shall see we are near
of kin." A cousin thrice removed would not now be thought a very near relation;
but in past times much more was made of "kindly blood" than at present. Avice
did not answer, and Frideswide, having recovered her courage, spoke up boldly.
For a hundred years her ancestors had been of the Lollard faith, and she was far
more disposed to glory in the fact than to be ashamed of it. "Wherefore? Are you
of that learning?" "Hush, gramercy!" cried Avice under her breath. "Wherefore?"
asked Frideswide again. "Dear heart, if any should o’erhear us!" explained
Avice. "Know you not that ’tis a dangerous matter to speak thereof?" "It may be
worse to let be," answered Frideswide thoughtfully. She was thinking of a story
of twenty years ago, which she had heard most sorrowfully told by the lips of
the Lady Idonia, how she had at one time fallen away for fear, and had never
forgotten her defection nor forgiven herself. "Ah, Frideswide," said Avice
earnestly, "you speak like to her that had dwelt in a sure place, and knew
nought of the world on the outside. Look you, matters be no more as they were
these twenty-five years back. So long as the King were in power and of good wit,
never man were ill-used for speaking Lollardy, for he never would have creature
harmed in his realm an’ he wist it, by his good-will. Have you ne’er heard how
he bade remove down from the Micklegate at York the one quarter of a traitor
there set, saying he would ne’er see Christian thus cruelly used for his sake?
But the rebel is made of other metal. Heard you not of one Will Balowe, that was
burned on Tower Hill scarce three years gone, for that he would not make
confession to no priest, but only unto God, and had (said they) no conscience in
eating of flesh during Lent? Both he and his wife had been afore abjured, so
that he was a lapsed man. There were no burnings whenso as King Henry were in
power. Nor know you not, about the same time, some pixes were stole for the
silver, and one of them that stale them was heard for to say that he had a
dainty morsel to his supper, for he had eaten nine gods—to wit, the hosts that
were in the boxes? There is more Lollardy about the realm than ever afore, trust
me: but ’tis not so safe to speak thereof as when you and I were childre."
"Methinks," said Frideswide thoughtfully, "they were little credit unto Lollardy
that should steal a pix for the silver." "There be men enough will make cloaks
of new virtue to cover up old sins," was the answer of Avice. "You wot more
hereof than I, as I may well see," said Frideswide. "Aye, I have seen and heard,
and I can reckon so much as twice two," replied Avice drily. "Look you, I have
been with my Lady but half a year, and I came to her from London town, where I
served my Lady of Exeter. So I saw and heard much, and I have not an ill
memory." "Pray you, tell me somewhat touching that my Lady of Exeter," said
Frideswide. "My sister is but now entered of her chamber, and I would fain wit
what manner of mistress she shall have." "Pray for her!" was the reply. "Against
what?" demanded Frideswide with considerable uneasiness. "’Shield us fro the
foule thing,’" quoted Avice, under her breath. "But, dear heart, what mean you?"
returned Frideswide, rising on her elbow in her eager desire to comprehend these
mysterious hints. "Is it my Lady of Exeter, or her Lord, or his squires, or
where and what shall it be that is thus foul and fearful?" "Her Lord?—_No_," was
the earnest answer. "Herself?" repeated Frideswide. "She and her Lord," said
Avice, in a low, sad tone, "have not dwelt of one house these seven years. He,
as you must wot, is of the King’s side, and she (which is sister to the rebel)
brake with him shortly after the war began. There were sore discontents betwixt
them, for two years or more ere they parted for good: but now they never meet.
His lands be all confiscate and granted to her, and he is the man that shall
never win one penny of them at her hands. I think she alway hated him—they were
wed being childre—but certes she hates him now. In all my life never saw I in
one house so much of God, and so much of the Devil. But the Lord campeth round
about them that fear Him. There is an angel in the house, as your sister will
early find to her comfort. There are devils too." "And her Lady is of them?"
asked Frideswide. "She is not the angel," drily responded Avice. "And her Lord?
"—said Frideswide. "Ah, he is sore to be pitied," answered Avice in a
compassionate tone. "May-be he is not wholly an angel neither: yet methinks
there is much in him that is good; and he might have been a better man—had she
been a better woman. The first sin is an easy matter, but it is hard most times
to see whither it will lead." "Be any here well-affectioned toward Lollardy?"
suddenly asked Frideswide. "Only one, to my knowing." "And that is? "—

"Mother Bonham. "Avice Hilton!" came at this moment in clear tones from the
closet. "I cry you mercy, Mother!" was the natural reply. "Days for talk, nights
for sleep," said the old lady sententiously. With simply a "Good night,
Frideswide," Avice turned on her pillow, and no more was said. This revelation
by no means conduced to Frideswide’s happiness. She was uneasy about Agnes, whom
she knew to be a girl who would say little, but suffer keenly. Yet what could
she do?—beyond taking Avice’s counsel, and praying for her. The idea of writing,
either to her father or sister, did not occur to Frideswide. Letters were
serious affairs in those days, more especially to women: and though Frideswide
had learned to write, which was not too common an accomplishment in ladies, yet
it was to her a very laborious and tedious business, requiring some decided
reason to induce so great an effort. While there were at that time a sufficient
number of women who could write, yet not to have acquired the art was considered
no disgrace to a woman of any rank. In that interesting contemporaneous poem,
"The Song of the Lady Bessy," we find the daughter of Edward IV. assuring Lord
Stanley that there is no need to send for a scribe to write his important
private letters, for she could write as well as any scrivener. "You shall not
need none such to call,       Good Father Stanley—hearken to me,     What my
father, King Edward, that King royal,       Did for my sister, my Lady
Welles,[#] and me:     He sent for a scrivener to lusty London,       He was the
best in that citie;     He taught us both to write and read full soon—       If
it please you, full soon you shall see—     Lauded be God, I had such speed
That I can write as well as he,     Both English and also French,       And also
Spanish, if you had need. "[#]

[#] The Princess Cicely. [#] Humphrey Brereton, Lord Stanley’s squire, and the
writer of the poem, was present at the conference, and we may therefore take him
to record the exact statements made by the Princess Elizabeth. Certainly, the
black-letter hand was one requiring far more effort and pains than the modern
running or Italian hand. The caligraphy of the Lady Bessy (afterwards Queen
Elizabeth of York) which has descended to posterity, would lead to the
melancholy conclusion that if she wrote as well as the best scriveners in
London, the productions of inferior penmen must have been illegible indeed. It
really is the case; for of all periods in English history (alas, excepting the
present century!) the worst writing is found in that which runs from the close
of the Wars of the Roses to the latter part of the reign of Elizabeth. A
document dating from the reign of King John is like copper-plate in comparison
with the atrocious scrawls of some writers of the Reformation period. Before
that year was ended, Pope Paul thought proper to confer upon Louis XI. of France
the title of "Most Christian King." It was no sooner heard of than it was
gleefully seized by Edward IV., under his character of _soi-disant_ King of
France. We may also conclude that Proud Cis snatched at it with considerable
self-gratulation, since a charter of hers, dated in this very year, adds it to
her titles. She styles herself "the excellent Princess, mother of the Most
Christian Prince, our Lord and son, Edward, and lately wife of the most
excellent Prince Richard, by right King of England and of France, and Lord of
Ireland. "[#]  Further than this, even Cicely’s ambition dared not to venture;
yet it seems almost surprising that she did not step across the very little gulf
which lay between all these high-sounding epithets and the one which would have
involved them all—the coveted name of Queen. [#] Close Roll, 9 Edw. IV. During
this year, another daughter was born to Edward and Elizabeth. They had three
now—Elizabeth, Mary, and Cicely—but no son. The eldest daughter, however, was
treated as Princess of Wales in her own right. She is always styled "the Lady
Princess"—a title which, until the accession of the Stuarts, appertained alone
to the Princess of Wales, whether she were daughter or daughter-in-law of the
monarch. The King’s daughters, apart from this, were simply addressed as "Lady."
The Princess had her own separate household, and judging from the amount of
money spent upon her, was rather better provided for than the Queen. Another
occurrence was taking place this year, of no moment to any but the parties
immediately concerned, yet which might have had very considerable influence on
the future history of England. William Herbert, Earl of Pembroke, had a boy of
thirteen as his ward, the nephew of Henry VI., whom at that time it was
desirable for his own sake to keep as much in obscurity as possible. This was
Henry Tudor, the young Earl of Richmond, whose mother was next heir to the Crown
after the descendants of Henry IV. The Earl, who liked his young ward, lent a
kindly ear to his pleading when a love-story came before him. He was not
altogether sorry to find that he could provide for the eldest of his very
numerous family by betrothing her to the young Earl. Very young they both were;
but boys and girls came early to the front, and blossomed rapidly into men and
women in the time of the rival Roses. So the Earl of Richmond was formally
affianced to the Lady Maud Herbert, in anticipation of a marriage which was
never to be. Would it have been better if it had been? Humanly speaking, the
course of English history would assuredly have been different. For Maud Herbert
was a woman of strong character, and did not faint in the weary march, as
Elizabeth Lucy had done. But one thing is certain: that the change for the worse
which came over the character of Henry of Richmond dates from the time of his
parting from Maud Herbert. He went into exile; and she wedded the Earl of
Northumberland, years before his triumphant return to wear the crown of England.
Which of the two was to blame must be left an open question. Perhaps it was not
either: for Maud’s marriage was not improbably forced upon her, and Henry could
not have returned to claim her without the most reckless risk of life. His
marriage with "the Lady Princess" gave peace to England, but he died a lonely,
unloved man, grown miserly and callous,—no longer the graceful and gallant
Richmond of those early years when he and Maud had lived and loved at Pembroke
Castle. *CHAPTER III. *

*FLIGHT. *

"My barque is wafted to the strand       By breath Divine:     And on the helm
there rests a hand       Other than mine." —DEAN ALFORD. The Lady Idonia sat
writing at a small table in the hall of Lovell Tower. She was the best writer in
the family—which does not by any means imply extraordinary fluency of diction or
rapidity of penmanship. The letters grew slowly under her hand, and she
frequently paused to look out of the window and think. What lay on the desk
before her was the following unfinished letter. "Jh’u. [#]

"MY NOWEN[#] DERE CHYLDE,

Thys shal be to give you to wyt, wt[#] all louyng comendac’ons from all us, that
wee well fare, and do hope in God that you be the same. And we have not yett
herde so much as one word from yr sistar. Matters here bee reasonable quyett at
this present, onlie that Doratie has broke y’ powdre box of siluer, in good
sooth a misaduenture and noe malice, wch shall be wel amended ere yow com home.
The dun cowe hath a calfe of hir veraye coloure. And Lyard Carlile[#] and all
the dogges fare wel. Maistres Henley hir littel lad lyethe sicke of a fevare,
but the leech reckoneth he shal doe well. Dorathie ys merrie, and gode withal.
Yr father thynkes to buy som pigges ayenst Xmas. [#] We shal bee fayn to here of
yr newes, the rather if you can give us any tydynges of such as you wot of,[#]
how they be now in men’s reckonings, and if thei be lyke to fare wel or noe. The
gode Lorde of his mercie kepe us all, and make vs to bee hys trew seruantes.
Annis, I wold haue you, when conueniencie serue, to sende mee from London towne
viij ells gode clothe of skarlette for a goune for yr moder, and so moche of
greene kersay as shall be a goun for Doratie: and dowlas to lyne the same, and
silke frenge to guard the skarlett goun, and fur of rabetts to guard ye grene:
alsoe siluer botons iij dozen, and black botons vj dosen and halfe. And sende ye
same well packed vp to the Goldene Lyon by Powles,[#] to ye name of Maister
Anthanie Milborne, yt is a frend of mye broder Will, and cometh into Yorksh:
thys nexte monethe. And let him that berethe ye same aske of ye sayd Maister
Anthanie for a token[#] yt he hath of mee for yow. Annis, wee trust in God yt
yow shal be a discrete mayd and gode, and obedyent to yowr maistres, and kyndlie
wt yr fellowes. [#] And above al, my dere harte, kepe yow ye fayth yt ve have
ben learned, nor let not anie man beguile you therof." [#] A contraction of
Jesus, commonly used at the head of a letter by pious persons. [#] Mine own. [#]
With. [#] The name of a horse. [#] Against Christmas. [#] The Lollards. [#] St
Paul’s Cathedral. [#] Present. [#] Fellow-chamberers. The pen had been laid down
at this point, and left so long that the ink was dry. The Lady Idonia was
speaking now to Another than Agnes,

"O Lord, keep the child!" went up from her inmost heart. "Suffer the unfaithful
handmaid to plead with Thee, that the faithful one may be preserved in the
faith. I may give her wrong cautions—I may fancy dangers that will not assault
her, and be blind to those that will. Thou, who seest the end from the
beginning, hold the child up, and suffer her not, for any pains nor fears, to
fall from Thee!" She roused herself at last, and finished her letter. "And so,
with all louyng comendac’ons from al vs, I commend yow to God. "Yr louyng
grandame to my litel powar,        "IDONIA MARNELL. "Writyn at Louell Towre,
this Wensday." The letter was delivered by Mr. William Carew to a retainer of
the Earl of Warwick, who was also one of his friends, and from whom he had
understood that the Earl meant to go southwards before the week was over. The
plot was ripe at last. Warwick left Middleham with the first dawn of 1470, and
arrived in London without any suspicion of his proceedings being excited at
Court. He left his brothers behind him in the north, with strict injunctions to
George to keep John out of mischief. They were very necessary. Unfortunately
(from Warwick’s point of view) just at that juncture King Edward took it into
his head to create Lord Montague’s little son George a Duke—a title then shared
by very few who were not Princes of the Blood—with the object of marrying him to
the Princess Elizabeth, and thus making him, in case Edward himself left no son,
virtually the future King. This high advancement for his boy sorely tried
Montague’s new-born Lancastrian proclivities. He swung like a pendulum between
the royal rivals: and all the efforts of his brother George were needed to
prevent him from going off to Edward, and of course, revealing the plot in which
Warwick was now engaged. One thing which had annoyed Warwick was the discovery,
real or fancied, that his influence with Edward was less powerful than of old.
But he went to work darkly, as was his wont. He was greatly assisted in his
proceedings by the fact that he held Edward’s commission to raise troops for his
service in the north, and no suspicion would therefore be excited by his
gathering an army around him. [#]  When he arrived in London, he reported
himself at the Palace, and a long interview followed in Westminster Hall between
Edward, Clarence, and Warwick. They parted "worse friends than they met,"[#] but
Edward still does not appear to have suspected that Warwick was actually
plotting against him, or he would hardly have let him go so calmly. Edward had
left for Canterbury, and Warwick and Clarence prepared to return northwards and
continue their amusement. Before leaving London, Clarence dispatched Sir John
Clare to Lord Welles and his son Sir Robert, desiring them to "be ready with all
the fellowship they could, whenever he should send word; but to tarry and not
stir till my Lord of Warwick were come again from London, for fear of his
destruction. "[#]  In the mean time they assiduously spread a report that "the
King was coming down with great power to Lincolnshire, and his judges should
sit, and hang and draw great numbers of the commons. "[#]  Of course this
disposed the commons to rally round Warwick, who represented himself in the
light of a protector from the impending terrors. He sent messenger after
messenger to bid Sir Robert Welles be of good comfort, and go forward, promising
to meet him at Leicester on the twelfth of February with nineteen thousand men.
[#]

[#] A very varied tale is told of Warwick’s capturing Edward in his bed at
Wolvey in 1469, and sending him prisoner to Middleham, whence he effected his
escape in a romantic manner. The accounts given are contradictory, the story of
the escape is disbelieved by Carte, and intimations on the Rolls seem to show
that the King had never left Westminster; I therefore have thought it wiser to
ignore this episode entirely beyond the present mention of it. [#] Sandford. [#]
Confession of Sir Robert Welles, Harl. Ms. 283, fol. 2. [#] Confession of Sir
Robert Welles, Harl. Ms. 283, fol. 2. Clarence, meanwhile, was playing his own
little game, independently of his father-in-law. His messengers had private
orders to "move the host, that at such time as the matter should come near the
point of battle, they should call upon my Lord of Clarence to be King, and
destroy the King that so was about to destroy them and all the realm. "[#]

[#] Confession of Sir Robert Welles, Harl. Ms. 283, fol. 2. Meanwhile, Edward
continued his favours to Montague—not because he trusted, but really because he
suspected him, and was anxious to ensure his fidelity. A few days only after the
meeting of Warwick and Welles, he granted to John, Earl of Northumberland and
Baron Montague, the manors of Tiverton, Plympton, Okehampton, and many others in
Devonshire,[#] being a portion of the confiscated lands of the Courtenays, Earls
of Devon. Perhaps this timely gift prevented Montague from openly siding with
Warwick until a later date: but he was not particularly grateful for it, since
he contemptuously termed it "a ’pie’s nest," and plainly intimated that it was
not so much as might have been expected. However, for the present, he held aloof
from the actual struggle. [#] Rot. Pat., 9 Edw. IV, Part 2. The earldom of
Morthumberland was not immediately restored to the Percys on their submission in
the previous October. A writer in the Paston Letters dates their restoration
Mar. 25, 1470. That was close at hand. Some rumour of the transactions with
Welles must have reached Edward, for he sent a peremptory order to Lord Welles
to come to him. It was obeyed; and the old man was then commanded to write a
letter to his son, charging him instantly to forsake Warwick and to join his
father. The command was accompanied by a hint that the writer’s head would be
the forfeit of his failure. Sir Robert, who seems to have been of an obstinate
temper, since we are told that he knew his power was too weak to grapple with
Edward, refused to obey, and moved southward to give battle. Edward kept his
word, and the father’s life paid for the son’s imprudence. Then he marched
northwards, and the two armies met at Stamford, on a place afterwards known as
Loosecoat Field. Welles had no chance against the overwhelming superiority of
Edward’s forces, and Warwick was not there. Sir Robert was taken, and beheaded
at Doncaster on the 13th of March. Hearing that Warwick was encamped about
twenty miles from Doncaster, Edward went on to the latter town. The next
morning, March 20, "at nine of the bell," Edward took the field at Estrefield,
and Warwick met him. "Never were seen in England so many goodly men, and so well
arranged." But no sooner did Warwick and Clarence perceive that fortune was
against them than they fled the field, and went to seek succour from Lord
Stanley. They halted first at a little town, so obscure that it was necessary to
say that it was in Lancashire, as otherwise few would have known whereabouts
Manchester might be. Thence they sent messengers to Lathom, but my Lord Stanley,
most cautious of men, showed them little favour. "And so men say they went
northward, and thence, men deem, to London. "[#]

[#] Paston Letters. Perceiving that his chief adversaries had escaped him,
Edward stopped pursuit of their troops, and went on to York. He and his men had
probably had thirsty work, for we learn that "York was drunk dry when the King
was there. "[#]  He was wise enough to send to Middleham for Lord Montague. When
that trustworthy gentleman appeared, it was to be created Marquis Montague, the
earldom of Northumberland being now taken from him and restored to its rightful
owner. It might have been supposed that an earl would scarcely deem it a
deplorable occurrence that he should be made a marquis: but my gracious Lord of
Montague was evidently in an exceedingly bad temper. He growled and grumbled as
if he were a deeply injured man,—managing, however, to keep up a contented face
in the presence of his master, who appears to have fancied that he had secured
Montague’s fidelity. Never were there more men than at that time who were able
to "smile, and smile, and be a villain": and all the Warwick brothers were
certainly of the number. [#] Paston Letters. From York was issued a long and
curious proclamation, in which Edward showed that he had at last fully realised
that Warwick and Clarence were his open enemies. If the words of Edward were to
be relied on to the exclusion of his deeds, it would certainly be supposed that
he was a man of the tenderest and most affectionate nature. In this respect he
somewhat resembled his predecessor, Henry III. Both could use very touching
language—which the actions of both sorely contradicted. In this document the
tone taken by Edward is that of a well-deserving man who had been injured in his
deepest affections. He sets forth that "the King granted to George Duke of
Clarence and Richard Earl of Warwick his pardon general for all offences before
Christmas last," trusting thereby to have caused them to have "shewed unto him
their naturall loue, ligeance, and duetee," for which purpose he had authorised
them to assemble his subjects in certain shires. "Yet the said Duke and Earl,
unnaturally, unkindly, and truly intending his destruction and the subversion of
the kingdom, ... and to make the said Duke king of this the said realm, against
God’s law, man’s law, all reason, and conscience, dissimuled with his said
Highness." Their proceedings are then detailed, as deposed in the confessions of
Sir Robert Welles and others, concluding with their flight "with all their
fellaship into Lancastreshire, so as his said Highness with his hoste for lack
of vitayll might not follow." Notwithstanding all these offences, "our sovereign
Lord considered the nighness of blood,[#] and tender love which he hath
aforetime borne to them, and was therefore loth to have lost them if they would
have submitted them to his grace." Having disobeyed the writs which allowed them
to present themselves, under promise of pardon, up to the 28th of March, the
Duke and Earl are now solemnly proclaimed rebels, to whom loyal subjects of King
Edward are to give no aid, favour, nor assistance, with meat, drink, money, or
otherwise, but are to take them and bring them to the King, upon pain of death
and forfeiture. The reward announced for the capture of either is £100 in land
by the year, to the captor and his heirs, or £1000 in ready money, at his
election. The capture of any knight of their following is to be rewarded by £20
in land or a hundred marks in cash; and of a squire, £10 in land or forty in
money. [#]

[#] The Countess of Warwick was Edward’s second cousin, and the Earl his third
cousin. [#] Close Roll, 10 Edw. IV. ; dated York, March 24, 1470. The day after
this proclamation, Montague received his marquis’s coronet, and was, in
appearance at least, one of the most faithful subjects of King Edward. The news
he brought on his return to Middleham caused no little excitement there. The
Countess ordered instant preparations for departure. Some of the household were
left behind at Middleham: some were suffered to return to their friends, among
whom were Theobalda and Eleanor. The only ladies she took with her, beside her
daughters, were Mother Bonham, Frideswide, and Avice. There was also a dresser,
or lady’s maid, and a scullion-girl. About midnight, when the ladies were trying
to get a little sleep before their early journey on the morrow, the porter was
awoke by small pebbles thrown up at his window. "Who goes there?" he inquired,
opening the casement about an inch. "It is I, John Wright," answered the
familiar voice of the young squire. "Pray thee, good Thomas, be hasteful and let
me in privily, with all silence, for I bring word from my Lord unto my Lady."
The porter cautiously unbarred the small wicket, and Wright stepped inside. He
did not wait to satisfy the porter’s curiosity, but sped across the court-yard,
and by means of a key which he carried, let himself into the tower which
contained the apartments of the Countess. A minute later, he was softly rapping
at the outer door of her rooms, and Mother Bonham admitted him. The Countess
sent for him at once to her bedside. She guessed that his message was one of
imminent import. "Noble Lady," said Wright, with a low courtesy—for the courtesy
was a gentleman’s reverence in those days,—"behold here my Lord’s token, who
greets you well by me, and desires you to come unto him, and my young ladies
withal, at Dartmouth, in Devon, so speedily and secretly as you may." He held
forth a diamond ring, which the Countess recognised as one usually worn by her
husband, and not sent as a token except on occasions of serious moment. She sent
Mother Bonham at once to communicate the news to her daughters, and to desire
them to be ready to set forth two hours earlier than the time originally fixed.
Her idea had been to seek the Earl at Warwick Castle, though she hoped to
receive more exact news before her departure. But she deemed it quite as well
that that very reliable person, the Marquis Montague, should be left in a little
uncertainty touching her departure. She had already taken advantage of a
conveniently smoky chimney to move the Marquis into a tower which did not
overlook her own. She now gave further orders that the horses were to be in
waiting outside the Castle, on the grass, so as to avoid noise, and in a
position where they could not be seen from Montague’s windows. At two o’clock,
wrapped in long travelling cloaks, and wearing list slippers, the ladies crept
out of the Castle into the fresh April night air, and mounted their horses in
silence. Sir John Clare rode before the Countess, Sir Walter Wretill before the
Duchess of Clarence, and John Wright before the Lady Anne. Slowly and silently,
at first, the procession filed off from the Castle, not breaking into a trot
till they thought themselves beyond sight and hearing. The Archbishop (just then
to be trusted) was keeping watch over his brother, and with him Warwick’s
servant, Philip Strangeways, who was to follow an hour later, in order to gallop
on and warn the ladies if any pursuit were attempted. Once out of Wensleydale,
and joined by Philip, the journey changed into a rapid flight. They travelled by
night. They were afraid of being pursued, not only on their own account, but on
that of Warwick, to whose locality theirs would give a clue, as it would
instantly be surmised that they were going to join him. They kept as much as
possible to the bye-ways and moor roads, which were less frequented, and also
less capable of ambush, than the high roads: but they could not keep altogether
out of human sight and hearing. Many a cottager woke up in the dark to hear a
rush of horses, and to see the flash of the lanterns as the fugitives fled past.
It was a wretched journey, especially for the Duchess, who was by no means in
health to stand it. But the Duchess had a spirit which carried her above all
pain and languor. She would have no halts made for her. She entertained a strong
dislike and fear of Edward personally, and if report spoke truly, not without
good reason. Before Dartmouth was reached, Frideswide Marston had most heartily
wished herself, a score of times at least, within the safe shelter of Lovell
Tower. Oh, if she could wake up from this hurried snatch of sleep under an
elderbush, to find herself in that little white bed in the turret chamber, with
Dorathie’s head beside her on the pillow! It seemed to Frideswide as if, that
wish granted, she could never complain of any thing again. Along the wild hill-
passes of "the back-bone of England," winding round the Peak, keeping clear of
Stafford Castle, where the Yorkist Duke of Buckingham had his home, skirting
Shropshire and Hereford, taking the ferry over the Severn, down through
Somerset, avoiding alike the uncivilised neighbourhood of Exmoor, where bandits
loved to congregate, and the too civilised neighbourhood of Exeter, they came
into those safer parts of Devon where the exiled Courtenays were lords of the
hearts, though they had lost the lands,—where once more "the King" was Henry
VI., and his adherents would meet with honour and help. Near Totness they were
met by William Newark, Warwick’s nuncio, who conducted them to boats moored in
the river awaiting them. It was a great relief to change their weary saddles for
the boats in which they dropped down the lovely Dart, and found Warwick’s fleet,
of eighty ships, ready to weigh anchor the moment they arrived, lying off
Kingswear. The voyage, however, had not been long before they discovered that
the saddles had been the safer mode of conveyance. The wind, though low, was not
unfavourable: but they had scarcely passed Portland when they were met by the
very enemy from whom they were endeavouring to escape. As they rounded the
little peninsula, ships of war stood before them, with King Edward’s standard
and Lord Rivers’ pennon flying from the masthead. An evil augury for Warwick was
that pennon. With any weaker commander, the fleet would have obeyed its Lord
High Admiral, as Warwick had been created a year before. But Lord Rivers was a
conscientious man of one idea, and he thoroughly believed in Edward’s right. The
ships joined battle, and the ladies of course were kept below. Oh for that
little white bed and Dorathie! Never till then had Frideswide Marston looked
death in the face, and never after that day could she be as she had been, again.
Warwick was a less honest and true-hearted man than Rivers, but he was also a
better general. The battle was short and sharp, but the victory remained in the
hands of Warwick. His ships got safely away, but they were not by any means out
of their troubles. It seemed as though both God and man were against them that
night. Before they could reach Beachy Head, there came on them a terrific
tempest, and they were tossed up and down in the Channel like toys of the storm.
To add to all other distresses, the Duchess of Clarence, whose mental energy had
hitherto borne her through her physical sufferings, sank beneath them at last,
and became alarmingly ill. It was not until the morning of the fourth day that
they found themselves off Calais, and a few hours before, the Duchess had given
birth to a child which had not survived the event many minutes. But Calais was
Warwick’s old home; he had been Governor of the town for years. Here, at least,
he might hope for rest and aid. They cast anchor under shelter of Cape Grisnez,
and sent John Wright ashore in a little boat to notify to Vauclere, Warwick’s
deputy in command, that his master was about to land. Warwick himself paced the
quarter-deck impatiently. What were those sluggards ashore doing, that his own
state barge was not sent off at once to land the ladies? Why did Vauclere not
appear, cap in hand, to express his satisfaction at the return of his master?
When at last he saw his squire return alone, Warwick’s patience, never very
extensive, failed him utterly. "What means all this?" he roared in a passion.
"My Lord," shouted John Wright back from the boat, "Messire de Vauclere begs
your Lordship will not essay a landing, for the townsmen will not receive you."
"Not receive _me_!" cried the Earl in amazement. "Me, their own Governor! Lad,
didst hear aright? Is Vauclere beside himself?" "In good sooth, nay, my Lord,
and he is sore aggrieved to have no better welcome for your Lordship than so.
’Tis the townsmen, not he, as he bade me for to say, and he earnestly desires
your Lordship to make for some other French port." Warwick could hardly believe
his ears. "But surely," he answered in a rather crestfallen tone, "they will
never refuse to receive my Lady Duchess? Have you told Vauclere in what case she
now is?" "My Lord, I told him all things: and he replied that he was sore
troubled it should so fall out, but he had no power. He hath, howbeit, sent two
flagons of wine for Her Grace." "No power!" repeated the Earl. "Wherefore then
is he there? Leave me but land in safety, and Messire de Vauclere, and my
masters the townsmen, shall soon behold if I have any power or no! No power,
quotha! Well! better luck next time. Get you up, lad, and bring the wine, for
’tis sore needed. Bid the shipmaster stand southward. Were we in better case,
they should find their ears tingle ere they were much older! Messire de Vauclere
shall one day hear my name again, or I much mistake!" And away strode the Earl
wrathfully, to communicate the disappointing news to his suffering ladies.
Southwards, for two days more, they slowly sailed. The storm was over, and the
wind had dropped almost to a calm. But at the end of two days, with much
difficulty, the vessel containing the Earl and his family was run into the mouth
of the Seine, and between Harfleur and Honfleur they landed on the soil of
Normandy. In France the scene was changed. Louis XI. had been pleased to take up
the Lancastrian cause—the cause of the King who had of old, as a child, been
made the rival of Louis’s father, and whose troops had been so ignominiously
driven out of France by the Maid. In France, therefore, Warwick was received
with honour and material help. Every provision was made for the wearied ladies
at Valognes, where they took up their temporary abode: but for some weeks
nothing would tempt Warwick from Honfleur—not even the remonstrances of his
friend the Duke of Burgundy, who sent to entreat him to come to his Court. One
important point was wanting—Queen Marguerite would make no move towards
conciliation. In vain King Louis assured her that Warwick’s help was absolutely
essential to the Lancastrian cause. The Queen might have welcomed him, but the
cruel defamation of her name the woman knew not how to forgive. She only
relented after long importunity, and then on the stern condition that in the
presence of the Kings of France and Naples, Warwick should solemnly retract all
his accusations, and beg her pardon for his infamous falsehoods. She also
insisted on this retractation being published in England. Finding that no better
terms could be obtained from his insulted sovereign, Warwick was compelled to
eat this most unpalatable piece of humble-pie with what appetite he might. He
waited on the Queen at Angers, where he begged her pardon on his knees, and
formally unsaid all the imputations which he had made upon her character. Even
then all present could see that Marguerite found it a very bitter task to
receive her enemy into favour. After this humiliating scene, the Earl rejoined
his ladies, and some weeks later they travelled together to the Castle of
Amboise, where their royal hosts were then residing. The Castle of Amboise
stands on one of those natural platforms of rock which in and about Touraine gem
the vale of the Loire; the little town clustering at its foot, between it and
the river, while the Palace towers above all. Were it not for them, the scenery
would be as flat as the sea. But wherever they stand up there is a little oasis
of beauty, for they are generally clad in verdure, as well as crowned with some
picturesque edifice of the Middle Ages. It was after dark when the barge which
bore the fugitives was moored at Amboise. Royal footmen stood on each side of
the landing-stage, bearing large torches, and royal ushers handed the ladies
from the barge, and led them into the Castle. As Frideswide was modestly
following her mistress, the last of the group, rather to her surprise, a hand
was offered her, and a voice asked her in English if she were not very tired.
Frideswide looked up into the pleasant face of a man of some thirty years of
age, who wore the royal livery of England. Livery, it must be remembered, was
not at that time any badge of servitude; all the King’s equerries, household
officers, and gentlemen ushers, wore his livery. This man was of fine
proportions, had bright, dark, intelligent eyes, and wore—what few then did—a
long beard and moustache. There was a kind, friendly expression in his face
which made Frideswide feel at her ease. She answered the sympathising inquiry by
a smiling affirmative. "Well, here may you find good rest," said he. "At the
least, after all these stairs be clomb, which I fear shall yet weary you
somewhat. Shall we, of your good pleasure, make acquaintance? I am the Queen’s
henchman." "Master Combe?" asked Frideswide, looking up. "John Combe, and your
servant," said he. "Truly a lowly name—it could scarce be shorter—but it hath
serven me these thirty years, and yet shall, if it please God." The name was no
unknown sound to Frideswide Marston, for John Combe had been Queen Marguerite’s
personal attendant—equerry, secretary, confidant, friend—ever since that dark
and evil day when, stung by Warwick’s cruel stab in the dark, the beautiful
young Queen, to avoid all ground for evil surmisings, had selected a boy of
fourteen to ride before her. Truest of the true had John Combe proved to his
royal lady. He was low down, indeed, in her household—no peerage ever adorned
his name, nor order glittered on his breast—but there was not a man about her
whom Marguerite would have trusted as she trusted him. His feeling towards her
was one of reverential tenderness—the sentiment of a devotee towards his chosen
saint. In fact, it was John Combe’s nature to look out for, to protect, to love,
whatever he found in need of it. "The man who wanted him was the man he wanted."
A timid, shrinking girl, who looked frightened and uncomfortable, would have won
John Combe’s notice, though a dozen luxuriously-appointed beauties were
fluttering about him in vain. What had originally attracted him to Marguerite
herself was not the beauty nor the Queen, but the lonely, helpless, calumniated
woman. The world holds a few John Combes. Would there were more! The long
stretch of stairs came to an end at last, and John Combe led Frideswide into the
private closet of Queen Marguerite. It was the first time she had ever seen the
royal lady who to her was the incarnation of every thing that was fair and
noble. While the Queen was occupied with the Countess and her daughters,
Frideswide had time to look at her. Marguerite of Anjou was now just forty years
of age, but she still retained, in every item but one, that wonderful beauty
which had won her the reputation of the loveliest woman in Europe. The once
brilliant complexion was dimmed and faded by long years of anxiety and
privation. But the graceful figure, lithe and slender, was not changed—the
gracious bearing was no less fascinating than of old—the blue eyes were bright
and sparkling still, and the golden hair held its own without a silver thread.
She received the Countess with the affectionate concern of an old friend who was
sorry for her recent suffering, and her daughters with motherly kindness.
Perhaps there was just a shade more of it for the Lady Anne than her sister. But
Anne was the younger, and was at that moment looking the more wearied of the
two. Then the Queen turned to the suite, greeted Mother Bonham as she might have
done her own old nurse, and gave her hand to kiss to Frideswide and Avice. The
Earl, who had been first to wait on King Louis, made his appearance last.
Marguerite received him with cold civility, very different from her manner to
the ladies. But she condescended to converse with him on political affairs,
though it was in a grave and distant style. Marguerite showed to most advantage
when she spoke, for then her face lighted up, her eyes were animated, and her
natural vivacity made itself apparent. Let her be silent, and the face grew
grave and sad, as she had good cause to be. Before much of this political
converse had gone on, the Queen, by a motion of her hand, summoned John Combe,
who, whatever he might be doing, always seemed to keep one eye upon every act
and gesture of his royal mistress. She desired him to call the Lady de Vivonne,
and a plump, lively, gesticulating Frenchwoman accordingly sailed into the room.
To her care the Queen committed the ladies who had accepted her hospitality,
desiring her to see that they wanted for nothing: and the Lady de Vivonne
carried them off to the apartments already prepared for them. Here were several
other women, both French and English, who busied themselves in offering help.
One of the latter, a girl of about their own age, devoted herself to Frideswide
and Avice. "Gramercy, my damsels, but you must be a-weary!" said she. "I wis I
was when we hither came. You shall yet have seen none, as I reckon, save our own
Queen?" "None at all," answered Avice. "I would right fain see my Lord Prince."
"And the King and Queen of France—be they here?" said Frideswide. "They be so,"
replied Christian, as they found the girl was named: "but, gramercy! they be not
much to look at." "Ill-favoured both?" Christian pulled an affirmative face. She
was evidently ready to continue the conversation to any extent; but both the
chamberers were so tired that when their duties were over, they were only too
thankful to lie down in bed. Only, before they dropped asleep, Frideswide said,—

"What shall be the next move?" "God wot," said Avice, gravely. "Know you if the
Queen hath or no any leaning toward our doctrine?" "Hush, prithee! I cannot
tell, in any wise. The King is good man and holy—men say, holy as any saint. The
Queen, I have heard, is a great almsgiver—or so were, when she had alms to give.
Poor lady! now ’tis well nigh come to asking alms, with her." "Poor lady!"
echoed Frideswide. And then they went to sleep. *CHAPTER IV. *

*SCENE-SHIFTING. *

"What a world this is!—a cur of a world, which fawns on its master, and bites
the beggar. Ha, ha! it fawns on me now, for the beggar has bought the cur.
"—EDWARD, EARL LYTTON. A brilliant spring morning greeted Frideswide’s eyes when
she opened her curtains in the little turret-room at Amboise where the
chamberers were lodged. Avice was still asleep, but Frideswide, hearing sounds
of life without, and fearing it might be late, roused her, and they dressed
quickly, and hastened to the Countess’s rooms. They found that lady refreshed by
her night’s rest, and in the highest spirits. From the sanguine tone of her
conversation, it might have been supposed that the conquest of England was only
a thing to ask and have. They would soon be back at Warwick or Middleham,—there
could not be the least doubt of it: King Henry would be restored amid the
acclamations of a delighted and loyal people, that rebel would have his head cut
off, and all would be smooth as a looking-glass, and sweet as a bouquet of
roses, for ever thenceforward. It was not Frideswide’s place to utter a word.
But in her heart she thought that she had no wish to return to Middleham. Were
it in her power to return to Lovell Tower, that would have been a different
matter. The process of dressing over, the ladies descended to Queen Marguerite’s
drawing-room, there to wait till the chapel bell rang for matins. The Queen
herself appeared in a few minutes, and gave them a kindly greeting. She was
accompanied by a youth of seventeen years, in whom it was easy to recognise the
Prince of Wales. Edward Prince of Wales was "only the child of his mother."
Neither in person nor character did he bear any resemblance to the King. He was
tall for his age, fair-haired, blue-eyed, and superlatively handsome. His
beauty, nevertheless, was of rather too feminine a cast—though there was no
shade of weakness in his character, unless too great a tendency to fiery
rashness be considered in that light. It may be said that the Prince did not
enter the room unattended. A little allegorical person accompanied him, Cupid by
name, who is said to take great delight in the making of mischief and the
breaking of hearts. In this instance he certainly came for the latter pursuit.
Well would it have been for Warwick’s youngest and sweetest daughter if the
electric spark had not been shot that day from heart to heart, which was to end
in so soon making her a widow indeed, with a heart which could throb no more to
any human love. The King of France was now on his way to the chapel, as a loud
ringing of bells and a trumpet-blast informed every body within hearing. Queen
Marguerite marshalled her guests, giving her own hand to Clarence, the Prince
conducting the Duchess. In pairs they slowly filed down the stairs of the tower,
and crossed the court-yard to the chapel, where the English Queen and Prince sat
in the royal traverse, the former on the right hand of King Louis, and the
latter on the left of Queen Carlotta. Frideswide felt quite ready to echo
Christian’s opinion that neither King nor Queen of France was much worth looking
at. King Louis had strong and by no means beautiful features, and he stooped in
the shoulders to an extent which approached an appearance of deformity. The
Queen’s features were more regular, but her face had a horse-like length, and
every thing about her was on a large and rather coarse scale. From the constant
glances of fear cast by the Queen upon her husband, Frideswide readily guessed
that her married life was not a happy one. In truth, poor Carlotta’s brains had
been frightened out of her. She was not naturally at all deficient in
intellectual power: but eighteen years spent under the influence of unceasing
terror had so completely broken her spirit and crushed her capacities of all
kinds, that Carlotta was now a simple nonentity—good to sit, clad in robes and
jewels, at a pageant, but in all other respects, outside her children’s nursery,
good for nothing at all. After matins, breakfast was served in the Queen’s
drawing-room. Breakfast was only now beginning to be considered a social meal.
Hitherto it had been much what afternoon tea is now—a light repast, to which
people came or not as they chose, and chiefly affected by women and invalids. It
had, therefore, mainly consisted of bread or cakes. Now fish and meat made their
appearance in addition, and also the acceptable novelty of butter—novel, that is
to say, in its new form of bread and butter. It had long been used in cooking:
but about this time it permanently took the place of dripping as a relish to
bread. Wine, ale, and milk, were the beverages used. Never, perhaps, to the same
extent as at this time, did the staff of life appear under so many different
forms. The more delicate kinds were termed simnel and _pain de main_: wassel was
the best kind of common bread; cocket was a spongy loaf of cheaper flour; maslin
was made of wheat mixed with oats and barley. Griddle-cakes were peculiar to
Wales and the counties bordering thereon. Spice-bread was plum-cake in all
varieties of richness. There was also brown bread, and Christmas bread, which
last was made of fine flour, milk, and eggs. Manchet bread, which was of high
class, seems to have borne its distinctive name rather in reference to shape
than to material, and probably resembled a Yorkshire tea-cake. [#]  There were
beside all these, rolls, biscuits and cakes of all sorts, maccaroons,
gingerbread, and marchpane—a sweet cake of the maccaroon type. [#] This is the
explanation usually given by antiquaries; but in Lancashire, within living
memory, a manchet was a small square loaf of very white bread. Some writers make
manchet (afterwards termed _chet_ bread) the name of the simnel loaf; this is
perhaps the true explanation. After breakfast, Queen Marguerite proceeded to
business. She held a long sitting of her council—for the King being a prisoner,
she was virtually and unavoidably the Lancastrian Sovereign. The Prince was yet
too young to assume this position, though circumstances had forced him to the
front so early that his intellect was beyond his years. He had inherited nothing
of the mental weakness of his father. The council consisted of the Prince,
Warwick, Clarence, Oxford, Jaspar Tudor Earl of Pembroke (brother of King Henry
by the mother’s side), Walter Lyhart Bishop of Norwich (the Queen’s Confessor),
Ralph Mackarell, her Chancellor, and several gentlemen of less note who were in
the Queen’s suite. The only ladies admitted in attendance on the Queen were the
Countess of Warwick and the Lady de Vivonne, the latter of whom understood no
English. Any thing of serious consequence could therefore be said in that
tongue. English had now almost entirely taken the place so many centuries held
by French as the Court language, and there is very little difference between the
English of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. During the reign of Elizabeth
a polishing process was slowly progressing, which has never ceased,—though how
far all changes in this respect are improvements, may reasonably be open to
question. The idea of a new campaign was now mooted. Marguerite was sure of help
from King Louis. The Duke of Burgundy was a more doubtful ally, who vacillated
between the rivals as inclination or policy led him, and who was at that time
recently married to the youngest sister of Edward IV., and yet entertaining and
pensioning a number of the Lancastrian fugitive nobles. Just now the Red Rose
was in the ascendant at his Court. His personal liking for Edward was doubtful,
and his fear and dislike of Warwick were not doubtful. Two of the most prominent
Lancastrian nobles, the Dukes of Exeter and Somerset, both of whom were at his
Court, did their utmost to incline him in their own direction, and the result
was that he openly offered his assistance to Queen Marguerite, while he
privately sent underhand information to Edward of all her plans so far as they
were known to him. This, at least, is generally believed. It is, nevertheless,
very possible, that the Duchess Margaret may be really responsible for much of
her lord’s apparent treachery. She was a woman to whose soul conspiracy and
scheming were as the breath of life. The preparations for the campaign were
quietly maturing as the summer advanced. It was arranged that Warwick was to
precede the Queen, landing about September, and she was to follow with more
troops, two months later. But in the mean time it was desirable that some means
should be found to make the interests of Warwick identical with those of King
Henry. No one knew better than Marguerite that Warwick’s fidelity was an article
that had its price, and that he might be expected to serve any cause just so
long as that cause served him. He was perpetually at see-saw, and a very little
additional pressure at either end would hoist or depress him in an instant. The
fact of his daughter’s marriage to Clarence made him more dubious than ever.
True, Clarence himself was at the present moment a Lancastrian: but how long
would he remain so? He was even less to be trusted of the two: for while solid
advantage was required to weigh with Warwick, caprice was enough at any time to
sway the actions of Clarence. Something, therefore, must be done to provide a
make-weight for Warwick’s family connection with Edward: and while the Queen was
considering how it could be done, King Louis made a suggestion to her which
showed the best way to do it. Human hearts will break through all state
trappings, and will insist on being heard even through the roar of revolution.
The young Prince of Wales, barely seventeen, had fallen passionately in love
with the Lady Anne Neville, Warwick’s youngest daughter, who was a year younger
than himself. But people were grown up at that age in the eventful fifteenth
century, which acted like a hot-bed upon the intellect and judgment of its
children. That the Prince should marry the Lady Anne Neville was politically
most devoutly to be wished: it was ardently desired by both the parties most
concerned, by Warwick himself, and by every body but the one person into whose
hands the matter had to come for decision. But so well were the feelings of
Queen Marguerite known to all around her, that no one but the King of France
himself dared to suggest to her the marriage of her son with Warwick’s daughter.
And when suggested, the proposal was at first received by the Queen with a blaze
of indignation. The wrath was all for Warwick,—certainly not for the innocent
Anne, whom she loved dearly for her own sake. "What!" cried the Queen
passionately, "does he ask to marry his daughter to the son of the woman he
traduced? The wounds that he has inflicted on me will bleed till the day of
judgment. "[#]

[#] These are the Queen’s own words. King Louis had need of all his craft and
cajolery (in both which he was an adept when he chose) to bring the insulted
woman to what he considered reason. Perhaps, after all, she yielded rather to
the pleading eyes of her darling than to any political argument. But she did
yield: and usually, when Marguerite resolved to do any thing, she did it
graciously. The marriage of the Prince of Wales and the Lady Anne was celebrated
in the chapel of Amboise, in July or August, 1470. It was attended by the usual
ludicrous stratagems on the part of King Louis, who loved grand pageants only
less than he detested paying bills for them. Accordingly, when hangings were to
be put up, he bought new velvet for those parts where they could be seen, and
made old serve wherever they could not. On the present occasion, His Majesty had
new robes made for himself and the Queen, but the fronts only were of previously
unused material,—for, as the King very truly observed, "when we are sitting in
the traverse in chapel, who will see the backs of our clothes?" On this
economical principle, the gold trimmings on Queen Carlotta’s dress were gold in
front, but at the back tinsel was employed. A splendid diamond served as a
button to fasten the ostrich feather in His Majesty’s hat (which was of a round
form turned up with fur, like a tall "pork-pie" hat), but the velvet of which
the back portion was composed was creased and worn, and the back fur had been
cut from an old cloak of the Queen’s. Queen Marguerite practised her economies
in another fashion. Economy was far more necessary to her than to Louis, for she
literally lived upon alms: but when she found velvet beyond her purse, she
dressed herself in honest camlet, or, had it come to that, in uncompromising
serge. In truth, Marguerite was too high-souled to measure a man’s worth by that
of his clothes. In velvet or in serge, she was still the Queen of England. By a
little pinching, in this instance, velvet was obtained for the bridegroom’s
dress: but there was not enough for the Queen also, and she therefore appeared
contentedly in sendal, which cost less, nor was she so mean a soul as to feel
one pang in doing so. Warwick, who acquired wealth not as he ought, but as he
could, had cash enough, and exhibited the fact by showering jewellery on the
bride. The ceremony over, congratulations were offered in abundance, and all the
suite knelt to kiss the hand of the Princess. It was the general opinion that a
splendid future lay before the young pair,—how could it be otherwise? They were
already dowered with rank, beauty, intellect, and devoted love. What did they
lack except wealth and success, which the approaching campaign would undoubtedly
confer on them? O blind eyes, which saw not the Angel of Death stand with folded
wings behind the bridegroom!—which read not the scroll, written within and
without, with desolation, and mourning, and woe, to be crushed into those few
and evil years which were the portion of the bride! Woe unto them that laughed
now, for they should weep! The remainder of the summer was busily filled with
preparations for the approaching campaign. On an early day in September, the
Duke of Clarence, and the Earls of Warwick and Oxford, took leave of the ladies,
and with banners flying, at the head of a mercenary host, set out for England.
"God guard you, my Lady!" said Warwick, with his last kiss to his wife.
"Farewell, my pretty ones!" to his daughters. "Only a short farewell. We meet at
Westminster, two months hence, if His will be." It was not. Never again were
they to see his face. Queen Marguerite did not remain long at Amboise after
Warwick’s departure. She removed to Paris, to be nearer the scene of action,
accompanied by the Prince and Princess, the Countess of Warwick, the Countess of
Wiltshire, and the rest of her ladies. A very comical story is told of the
husband of this Countess of Wiltshire at the battle of St. Albans, where, says
the sly old chronicler, "the said James set the King’s banner again an house
end, and fought manly with the heels, for he was afeared of losing of beauty,
for he was named the fairest knight of this land. "[#]

[#] Gregory’s Chronicle. On the thirteenth of September, Warwick and his army
landed at Plymouth, some at Dartmouth and Exmouth. The Duke of Burgundy tried in
vain to intercept him, his vessels being scattered by a great storm through
which Warwick passed safely. Burgundy, however, sent word to Edward of the port
and time of Warwick’s choice: but Edward was on a hunting expedition, and, true
to his character, he left matters to look out for themselves. A man of no
foresight, vigilance, nor strength of character, but capable of sudden rushes of
violent bravery, it was Edward’s habit to trust to the chapter of circumstances,
which hitherto had usually turned in his favour. Moreover, he had in this
instance a secret source of hopefulness, of which Warwick was not aware. Private
overtures had been going on between him and Clarence, by means of a lady in the
household of the Duchess, whom Edward had sent over primed with instructions.
Ostensibly she came, of her own accord, to join her mistress, and her _rôle_ of
envoy was never suspected, for "she was no fool, nor loquacious. "[#]  Beyond
this, Edward placed trust in Warwick’s brothers, of whose fidelity he felt no
doubt. The past was apparently forgotten. [#] Comines.—Who this ambassadress was
is not known. Warwick had not landed a week when he found the whole country
pouring in to aid him. He set his face towards Bristol, where he had left his
heavy baggage when he fled to France. Here he was well received; and after three
days spent in collecting forces, he marched upon Nottingham at the head of sixty
thousand men. King Edward was now at Lynn, in a fortified house, to which there
was no access except by one bridge. He had "begun to look about him" when he
heard of Warwick’s approach, but he does not appear to have done much beyond it.
[#]  As he sat at dinner, news was brought to him that his trusted partisan, the
Marquis Montague, had mounted his horse, and was crying, along with others, "God
save King Henry!" Edward treated the first rumour as mere nonsense: but when it
was repeated, and Lord Rivers shook his head with the remark that "things did
not look well," Edward despatched Lord Hastings to see if it were true. He
returned with the news that it was less than the truth. Nearly the whole army
had deserted to Warwick, as represented by his brother Montague. If Edward meant
to save himself at all, he must escape now. [#] Several chroniclers state that
Edward fled from Nottingham to Lynn when he heard of Warwick’s coming: but no
hint of this movement is given by Comines, who tells us that he received his
version of the narrative from Edward’s own lips. At anchor off Lynn lay one
English and two Dutch ships, ready to sail, having come laden with provisions
for Edward’s army. He hastily summoned such of his nobles as were faithful to
him, and about seven hundred of the army, and fled on board one of the Dutch
ships. Lord Hastings stayed behind to give a piece of deceitful advice to his
men—namely, that they should join Warwick, but retain their allegiance to King
Edward and himself—and then followed his master. So hurried was the flight that
Edward had no money, and no clothes but those he wore, and a cloak "lined with
beautiful martens," which he had probably caught up in departing. The three
ships sailed away from Lynn with all the speed they could make, and the day,
which had opened on the tenth year of Edward IV., closed on the forty-ninth of
Henry VI. Once more—and though he knew it not, for the last time—Warwick "had
all England at his bidding." He was king in all but name, for King Henry still
lay a prisoner in the Tower, and Queen Marguerite was in France. Warwick sent
off Sir John Clare with hasty triumphant despatches to the Queen, and himself
marched on London. Of course the news of his coming reached the capital before
him, and the citizens turned out to greet their favourite. Warwick’s popularity
with them is said to have been due to three causes: first, he flattered them;
secondly, he allowed them to engage in any acts of piracy they pleased with
impunity; and lastly, he took care to be always heavily in debt to various
citizens. [#]  It became therefore the interest of London that Warwick should
triumph. [#] Comines. Warwick’s first act was to march on the Tower, and summon
it to surrender. The terrified Constable delivered his keys to the Lord Mayor,
who opened the gates for Warwick. Jaspar Earl of Pembroke and John Earl of
Oxford entered with him. They went straight to the chamber in which the King was
confined, and found that simple-minded man calmly reading his Psalter, and not
more disturbed by the tumult than to look up and say,—"Pray you, Master Gaoler,
what noise is this without?" But Henry’s tone changed the next instant, and the
prisoner became the king. "Ha! my Lord of Warwick here!—and Jaspar—my dear
brother!" and he gave him his hand affectionately. "My Lord of Oxford—God give
you good morrow all! What means this?" Warwick knelt at the feet of the King.
"It means, my Lord, that God hath saved King Henry." And from all around rose
the chorus. The King gazed from one to another as though he scarcely believed
the evidence of his senses. "Where are my wife and son?" was his next query. "At
Paris, my Lord, and soon to come hither, if God be serven." "And the Earl of
March?" This was Edward’s proper title in the eyes of a Lancastrian. "Fled, my
Lord,—fled the realm: and his wife is in sanctuary with her childre." It would
not have been Henry VI. if he had not answered, "Poor souls!" "All is o’er of
the rebellion," broke in Oxford, always fiery and rash: "all is o’er, your
Highness; and we pray you give us leave to conduct you to your own lodging."
"Nay," said the King, kneeling down at the table; "tarry till I have thanked
God." Then, the rest kneeling around bareheaded, he poured forth a fervent
thanksgiving. Very simple as this man was in worldly wisdom, he was eloquent
when he spoke to God. Then they took from him the prison garb, and attired him
in royal robes, and led him to "the King’s lodgings" in the White Tower. Here a
singular ceremony took place. Warwick and his colleagues were not content with
merely restoring King Henry, but deemed it a better safeguard to give him the
additional advantage of popular election. Accordingly they held a formal
_plébiscite_—of whom composed we are not told,—whether simply of the little
group of Lancastrian nobles, or of their army of four thousand men, or generally
of the citizens of London. This process completed, the King was set on
horseback, and conducted to the Bishop of London’s palace. But Warwick soon
discovered that he had an account to settle with his intensely discontented son-
in-law. The deposition of Edward, in the eyes of Clarence, was not at all
equivalent to the restoration of Henry. He had been ready enough to displace his
brother, but his intention—which Warwick had frustrated—had been to set himself,
not Henry, on the vacant throne. Clarence was in a very sulky temper, and
required a tiresome amount of smoothing. This desirable end was at last
accomplished; and having been joined by his excellent brother, the Archbishop of
York, who was always constant to one side—the winning one—Warwick proceeded to
get up a splendid procession to St. Paul’s Cathedral, which King Henry entered
in state on the thirteenth of October. He wore his crown, and Warwick carried
his train, while Oxford bore the sword before him. After the procession, Edward
of March was solemnly proclaimed a usurper through London. Meanwhile, Edward,
deserted and destitute, chased by Esterlings across the sea, ran his vessel into
Alkmaar, and landed, accompanied by his brother Richard and his few faithful
adherents. He had no money to pay the captain, and he gave him all that he had,
his fur-lined cloak. The Lord of Gruthuse, Governor of Holland for the Duke of
Burgundy, received the fugitives kindly, provided them with clothing, and
conducted them to the Hague, whence Edward sent a messenger to the Duke to
notify his arrival. This news was by no means a source of pleasure to that royal
trimmer, Duke Charles, whose endeavours to keep in with both parties are as
amusing to readers of history as they were troublesome to himself. He did,
however, grant to his brother-in-law a pension of five hundred crowns per month;
but he gave him little encouragement to come on to his court, whither Edward
nevertheless proceeded at once, as soon as he had money to do so. When Edward
presented himself at St. Pol, where the Court was then residing, the poor Duke
was in a ludicrous state of indecision. On his one hand was his wife Margaret,
to whom he was really attached, as he showed by marrying her as soon as he
became his own master—his father having set his face against the marriage for
political reasons: on the other side, the Lancastrian Dukes of Exeter and
Somerset, who had resided for some years at his Court, and were his chosen
friends. On both sides, as it seemed, was his own interest. At last he contrived
to find a way out of the difficulty, which, as usual in such circumstances, was
a crooked one. He publicly proclaimed his intention of giving no assistance to
Edward, and forbade any of his subjects to enlist with him: while privately he
presented him with fifty thousand florins, and quietly made ready at Ter Veere
four or five large ships of his own navy, and fourteen more hired from the
Esterlings, or merchants of the Hanse Towns. These preparations of course took
time; and during that time Queen Marguerite would have been energetically
working in England, had she found it possible. But winds and waves were against
her. She came down to the French coast in November, as had been agreed with
Warwick: but she could go no further. In an agony of impatience and longing, she
was compelled to waste at Harfleur time more precious than jewels. Her husband
wanted her, in every sense of the word. The Lancastrian party, deprived of her,
was a body without a soul. Even Warwick, clever man as he was, and little love
as was lost between him and her, condescended to express a wish for the Queen’s
presence. On the fourth of November, 1470, while things were in this condition,
a little life began in the sanctuary at Westminster, which was to end, fifteen
years later, as sorrowfully as it had opened, in the Tower of London. The long
wished for son of Edward IV. came at last. But the news does not seem to have
lightened the discouraged hearts of the Yorkists. Before the month was over, Sir
Richard Widville, Queen Elizabeth’s own brother, had made his submission to King
Henry. The King was residing, quietly enough, at Westminster Palace, which he
never quitted during his short tenure of power. Large grants were made to the
three Warwick brothers; and Henry, who could not conceive the idea of any body
playing him false, seems to have placed himself entirely in their hands. His
sagacious wife would have taken a truer view of the situation. But she was a
virtual prisoner on the French coast, bound there by the winds and waves of God.
Warwick was created afresh Lord High Admiral of England, Ireland, and Aquitaine,
with enormous powers: Clarence was made Viceroy of Ireland, and letters patent
granted enabling him to do any thing he chose. The whole tone of the grants
shows them to have really proceeded from the persons to whom they were
ostensibly made, and in whose hands the King was an innocent toy, skilfully
moved at pleasure. O for the wise head and the true heart of his one real
friend!—of her who loved _him_ first, and the crown and sceptre second. There
were other friends, true in a sense: but to them the crown was the point of
importance, and Henry was interesting merely as the man who ought to be wearing
it. One of these last was with him—his brother Jaspar,—and early in February,
another fought his way to his side. The winds and waves, soon to have so dire a
message for him, yielded now to the eager importunity of Exeter. The sight of
Edward at the Court of Burgundy was more than his Lancastrian heart could bear.
The bitter cruelty which he had received at the hands of Edward’s sister, his
own wife, came back upon him too vividly to be endured. Half driven by the one
reason, half drawn by the other, he hastily left St. Pol, and journeyed across
France to the port where Queen Marguerite waited for a fair wind from the east.
And then it was that Frideswide Marston first saw the face which she should
never forget again. Henry Duke of Exeter was a Holand, but not one of the
handsome Holands of Kent, who were characterised by their lofty height, their
stately carriage, and their magnificent beauty. His grandfather, John de Holand,
the first Duke of Exeter, had stepped out of the family ranks in respect of
personal appearance, being a short, dark-haired man, with pendulous cheeks and
no good looks of any kind. Duke Henry had improved upon this pattern, having
inherited some of the attractiveness of his beautiful grandmother, the Princess
Elizabeth of Lancaster. Two Holand qualities were his, derived from his
grandfather—the fiery fervour and the silver tongue. From both sides of his
ancestry came his impulsive bravery; from the Plantagenet side his chivalrous
generosity, his delicate courtesy: from all, the unswerving loyalty and
faithfulness which formed the most prominent feature of his character. Yet they
were joined by that shrinking from pain, and that despondent hopelessness, which
an eminent psychologist tells us are manly, not womanly characteristics,
inconsistently mingled with weakness of a type much more feminine than
masculine. A strangely complex and inconsistent character was this: a brave man
who never feared disgrace nor death; a true man, who would have died with his
hand upon his banner and his face to the foe; a man with distinct convictions,
and courage to avow them—yet a weak man. A voice that he loved would lead him in
the teeth of his own convictions, though a voice that he did not love could not
make him swerve for an instant. In this respect he was unlike all his
family,—most of all unlike his bluff and cruel father, the last act of whose
life had been the invention of the rack, long popularly known in England as "The
Duke of Exeter’s daughter." In a popular ballad of the day, wherein the state is
described under the figure of a ship, Exeter is selected as the lantern at the
mast-head. The idea was doubtless originally taken from his badge—the fiery
cresset set aloft upon the pole—yet it was equally true to the fervent, devoted,
transparent character of the man. "The ship hath closèd hym a lyght     To kepe
her course in way of ryght,     A fyrè cressant that bernethe bryght,       With
fawte was never spyed. That good lyght that is so clere     Call Y the Duke of
Exceter,     Whos name in trouthè shyned clere,       His worship spryngethe
wyde." The memory of the wife at whose hands he had endured what few husbands
would have borne, much less have pardoned, was to Exeter one of unmixed pain and
bitterness. It could scarcely be said that he had loved her. He had liked her,
and he would have loved her with very little encouragement. But so far from
encouraging the affection, she had smothered it in its cradle. She gave him no
chance to love her. Repulsed and mortified, his heart—to which love of something
was an absolute necessity—had turned to their one child, the fair-haired little
daughter who resembled her mother in face, but her father in character. For her
sake he had borne all this suffering inflicted by her mother; for her sake he
had continued to live in the same house with his wife, long after her company
had become intolerable. Nay, not to be parted from Anne, he had done, and would
have done, almost any thing required from him. They were parted now. The Duchess
knew her daughter’s power over her husband, and she therefore insisted on
keeping the daughter by her side. She might become a useful tool some day, if
she received proper training, which her mother meant to give her. All that
Exeter knew was that the only creature whom he loved, and who loved him, was in
the hands of enemies who would try hard to make her hate him. She was his one
comfort in all the world, and she was kept away from him. This was the bitterest
drop in his bitter cup—and his wife meant it to be so. Few men had suffered in
the Wars of the Roses as he had. To-day in prison, and to-morrow in sanctuary;
forsaken by his own soldiers, reduced to beg his bread barefooted until the Duke
of Burgundy took compassion upon him, robbed of every penny of his inheritance
by the woman who had sworn in God’s presence to love and cherish him—all these
painful memories were less to Exeter than the cruel separation from his only
child. Deep down in his heart, scarcely confessed even to himself, was the hope
that would break out of that passionate longing for her. If he could cross the
Channel, if he could get to London, perhaps, some day, at a window or through
the curtains of a litter, he might catch a glimpse of Anne. Even a wilder hope
than this he cherished; for it might be possible to bribe one of his own
servants to obtain for him a secret and stolen interview with his own child. But
would he ever find his child again? He might see the Lady Anne de Holand: but
would she be the little Nan that he had left years ago—the little Nan that used
to climb upon his knee and kiss him and tell him that she "loved him so"? Better
to keep that sweet remembrance undimmed, though it called up such hopeless
yearning, than to meet a cold, haughty maiden who would courtesy to him and call
him "my gracious Lord," and take the first opportunity of getting away from him.
That would be to lose his darling indeed, in a far worse sense than he had lost
her now. It was not for Frideswide Marston to read all this. But she saw the
weary, wistful look in the dark eyes, and she wondered whence it came. How
Exeter contrived to do what the Queen could not do, and make his way to England,
has not been explained. We only know that he did it, and that on the fourteenth
of February, 1471, he rode into London—where King Henry VI. reigned in the
Palace of Westminster, where Queen Elizabeth Widville pined in the Sanctuary,
and where the Duchess Anne of Exeter held royal state at Coldharbour—safe from
both rival Roses, for what Lancastrian would harm the wife of his King’s most
faithful councillor, and what Yorkist would dare to touch the favourite sister
of his sovereign? In anticipation of the Duke’s journey, Queen Marguerite had
kindly suggested that any of the suite who wished to do so might send letters by
him. Frideswide, who was longing for communication with home, undertook the
tremendous task of writing both to her father and sister. The Duke turned over
the letters which were put into his hands, and paused suddenly when he came to
the one addressed to his own home. "Who writ this?" he asked of John Combe, who
had brought the letters to him. Combe glanced at the address—"_To the hands of
Mistress Agnes Marston, at Coldharbour, in the City of London, le these
delivered._"

"I reckon, my gracious Lord, it shall be Mistress Frideswide Marston, that is of
my Lady of Warwick’s following." "Pray you, desire Mistress Frideswide to come
hither, for I would fain have speech of her." She came, and stood courtesying
within the doorway. "Come nigh, I pray you, Mistress," said the Duke, "and tell
me, is this fair dame of your kin?" He held up her letter to Agnes, as he spoke.
"An’ it like you, aye, my gracious Lord: it is my sister, that is chamberer unto
your Lady." The Duke looked thoughtfully at the letter. "Think not my words
strange," said he, "but answer me, if this your good sister be of gent and
pitying kind?" "That is she, right surely." "One that should do a kind deed for
a man in need, an’ it fell in her way?" "I am assured of that, my gracious
Lord." "Then pray you, Mistress Frideswide, do me so much grace as to write
outside your letter, that you do beseech her, for the love of you, to grant that
the bearer thereof shall ask of her." Frideswide looked, as she felt,
astonished. "Mistress Frideswide," said the Duke sadly, "you are here, as I, cut
off from home and friends. But you have hope to return thither when God will,
and I have none. My maid, I have one only child, that is the very jewel of my
heart, and they keep her from me. (He did not say who "they" were.) If you will
do so much for me, I will myself deliver your letter, an’ it may be compassed,
and pray your good sister to let me have a word with my darling." Frideswide
Marston looked up into the sad earnest eyes, and then, without another word,
stooped down and added the request to her letter. There was more wet on the
cover than ink, when she had done. *CHAPTER V.*

*HIS LITTLE NAN. *

"Some feelings are to mortals given     With less of earth in them than Heaven;
And if there be a human tear     From passion’s dross refined and clear,     A
tear so limpid and so meek     It would not stain an angel’s cheek,     ’Tis
that which pious fathers shed     Upon a duteous daughter’s head." —SIR WALTER
SCOTT. "Be sure, Jane, to tell Valentine that I will have my gown of motley
velvet ready for my wearing on the morrow; and bid him set silver buttons
thereto—and good plenty." "Please it your Grace, Master Valentine did desire of
me that I should say unto you that he could not make ready the gown of motley as
to-morrow, nor afore Thursday come." "Could not?" The Duchess of Exeter’s
chiselled eyebrows were slightly raised. "Could not? But he must." "Please it
your Grace, thus said he." "Tell him it skills not[#] what he can. I say he
shall." [#] Matters not. "Then belike there shall be more tailors had?" "I care
not how it be done, so it cost no money." "But, an’t like your Grace, the
tailors will not work without money: and unless more be had, Master Valentine
can never, his own self—without he sit up all night, nor scarce then—make an end
of your Grace’s gown by to-morrow." "Let him sit up, then. Good lack! what ado
is here over a sely[#] tailor!" [#] Simple, mean. "Your Grace mindeth, maybe,
that you were set to have the murrey[#] gown by next Sunday?—and both two cannot
be done." [#] Plum-coloured. "Cannot! always at _cannot_! Hold thine idle
tongue. Of course it can be done if I will have it so." "Doubtless, Madam, if it
please your Grace to pay more tailors." "I will pay nobody. Ye will clean ruin
me amongst you. "’Twas but yesterday I paid four thousand marks to a Lombard for
jewelling. Ye would leave me never a cross[#] in my purse." [#] Penny, divided
by a cross that it might be easily broken into fourthings=farthings. "Then, an’
it please your Grace, what is to be done?" demanded the practical Jane, who was
one of the four chamberers of the Duchess. "Gramercy, maid, burden not me
withal!" testily exclaimed her royal mistress. "Go and ask at Dame Elizabeth
Darcy, an’ thou wist not what to do. I tell thee, the motley must be made ready
for to-morrow, and the murrey by Sunday next: and how it shall be is no business
of mine, so it cost not money. _It shall be_. See to it." Poor Jane, who felt
herself ordered to do the impossible, made one more faint struggle with destiny.
"It should not like your Grace to bear that gown to-morrow?" "This?" returned
the Duchess contemptuously, glancing down at her dress, which was of dark blue
satin, heavily trimmed with minever. "’Tis not fit to be seen. Hast lost thy
wit? I tell thee, I must have a decent gown to put on. That idle Valentine hath
left me never a one in my wardrobe. He is the laziest tyke that ever set
needle." "Please it your Grace, there is the broched[#] cloth of silver"——

[#] Figured. "’Tis all frayed at the bottom. I warrant he hath not hemmed it
anew." "And the tawny velvet"——

"The which yon rascal Fulk spilt a glass of malmsey o’er. Tell Dame Elizabeth it
must be docked of his wages." "And the changeable[#] green velvet"——

[#] We retain changeable silk, under the name of shot silk; but changeable
velvet is lost. "With a rent across the front breadth as wide as mine arm, and
none of you idle hussies hath thought to mend it." "And the russet figury
velvet"——

"All the pile worn off—as shabby as can be." "And the crimson and blue damask,
and the purple tartaryn,[#] and the mustredevilers,[#] and"——

[#] A kind of satinette, or satin Turk. [#] A cloth, of which the name was
derived either from _moitié de velours_, or from being manufactured at Villars.
"Go thy ways for an impudent ne’er-do-well! I tell thee I will have those two
gowns—I _will have_ them! Let me hear no more of thy foolery." And away marched
the Duchess, and left poor Jane standing in the middle of the room. "It shall
cost Master Valentine his place an’ he do it not," muttered she to herself. "And
he cannot do it—’tis not possible in the time." "Then, were I Master Valentine,
catch me essaying to compass it!" said a voice beside her. "Dear heart, Marion!
wouldst lose thy place?" "I would lose this place, and be rare thankful to do
it," responded the girl addressed as Marion, who was another of the chamberers.
"I oft-times wish we were as the meynie,[#] and could be hence if we would." [#]
Household servants. The expression of Jane’s face indicated that she thought
such a sentiment treasonable. "What with her Grace, and what with Tamzine, it is
not a dog’s life we lead!" continued Marion. "If the thing lay in mine hands,
you should see, but I would wed the first man that asked me, just to be out of
it." "So might you be worser off than now," suggested Jane. "Could not!" said
Marion expressively. Jane shook her head as if she thought that very
questionable. "Men be queer matter," said she. "Now you can make out a woman."
"Good lack! think you making out is all?" replied Marion. "She is easy enough to
make out, is Her Grace. So is Tamzine. But I love their company never a whit the
more for that. Gramercy, there goeth my Lady’s handbell! I must away." In an
upper room in the same house two other girls were sitting. One, who sat at work
in the window-seat, was so like Frideswide that we can easily guess her to be
Agnes Marston. She was a little quieter than her sister in manner, and a shade
less good-looking. The other girl sat in a large, handsome, curule chair, with
an illuminated manuscript open on the table before her. Her face was a
remarkable one. Her figure was extremely slender, thin almost to emaciation: but
more striking than this was the wan white face, where two hectic spots burned in
the hollow cheeks, and the large dark blue eyes seemed of unnatural size and
brilliance. A long-drawn sigh made Agnes look up. "Your Ladyship is weary,
methinks," she said. "I may well be thus," was the answer, as the head was
leaned on the thin hand. "I was doing that which would weary an angel, for I was
trying to understand God." "How, dear my Lady?" The white-faced girl lifted her
head, and let her eyes meet those of Agnes. "It were to no good to speak in
riddles," she said. "Agnes, you have dwelt in this house a full year, and you
know the sorrows thereof as well as I. Specially, you know my sorrows—you know
that I live a life wherein there is nothing to make the present happy, and the
future is all full of a great dread. There is only one in all the world that
loves me, and I cannot go to him: and one that I love not, and that loves not
me, is about to be forced upon me whether I will or no. Why should I try to hide
these things from you? You know them all. In all the whole world that is, and in
the life that is to be, there is not one ray of sunlight for me. Do you marvel,
Agnes, if life looks black to mine eyes? Are you one of those surface seers,
that reckon a woman should be comforted for a breaking heart by a necklace of
pearl, and that she is a fool to weep for a lost friend if she have a new gown
of crimson velvet?" "No, indeed, Lady mine." "Aye me!" sighed the Lady Anne. "If
I had but been a carpenter’s child, or of a gardener——that I could have welcomed
him back at eve from his daily work, and kept his hearth bright, and might have
loved and been loved! I could have done without the pearls and the velvet,
Agnes. But I have them: and they be poor exchange for the other." "Things will
change one of these days, sweet my Lady. ’’Tis a long lane has no turning.’"

"It has been a long one, and there be eight years now since it turned last.
Eight years, Agnes—more than half my life! And folks think it strange that I
care. They looked for me, it should seem, to set mine heart on gewgaws, and to
think more of the bidding to a dance than of the loss of a father. If I could
see an end to it, I might take less thought. But I can behold no turn coming
save one, and that is for the worser." Agnes knew that this allusion was to her
approaching marriage. Certainly that was no source of congratulation. In the
eyes of the waiting-woman no less than the mistress, the handsome young Baron of
Groby, Thomas Grey, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth, who had been chosen as
the future husband of the Lady Anne de Holand, was not a man to be regarded with
any other sentiment than repugnance. Agnes had seen him kick his dog out of the
way, and never look whether he had hurt it, when the poor little spaniel,
unaware of its master’s mood, had presumed to request his attention when he was
not disposed to give it. "There is only one comfort thereanent. I shall, may-be,
never live to be wedded." "Dear my Lady, pray you"——

"Does it look likely, Agnes?" said Lady Anne with a quiet smile,—scarcely a sad
one this time. The tears came to Agnes’s eyes. She could not say that it did.
"No," resumed Lady Anne, after a short pause, and in a low voice, "I never loved
any thing yet that did not either die or go away from me." "Except Jesus
Christ," said Agnes softly. She knew that she was safe in saying it—that however
the black clouds might hide the Sun of Righteousness, He had risen, with healing
in His wings, upon the young lonely heart beside her. "Except Jesus Christ,"
echoed the girl reverently. "And yet—O Agnes, does He not know how hard it is to
see nothing? to have nothing at all that one can feel and touch, and clasp close
to the heart? He had friends in this life—even He, the Man of Sorrows, was not
quite without them." "Yet they all forsook Him, and fled." "Aye. That was worse.
But they came back again." There were tears behind the voice. "Dear my Lady,
what causeth you be thus sorrowful this even?" She broke down when that was
asked. Pushing away the book, she bent her head down on her clasped hands on the
table, and sobbed as though her heart would break. "Oh, it is all so dark!" she
sobbed. "If we might have gone to Heaven together, and have had each other
there! Why are we kept parted? Agnes, I hate these signs of mine high estate,
which seem as if they came betwixt me and him—betwixt me and peace. If I had not
been King Edward’s niece—Oh, if this awful war had never begun!" Agnes had
dropped her work, and sat looking out of the window. She did not know what to
say. Well enough she knew that religious platitudes would do no good here. The
Lady Anne was nearer God than she was, but just now she was in the dark. She had
dropped the conscious holding of the Father’s hand, and she felt like a lost
child left out in the cold. Agnes did not realise that much of her depression
was physical; but she did feel the necessity for offering some cheerful
diversion to her thoughts. "Dear my Lady, pray you, think on pleasanter gear."
"Wilt find it for me, Agnes?" That was not an easy task. Agnes hesitated. But in
a few moments more the sorrowing girl had found it for herself. "I suppose," she
said more quietly, "I must lift up mine eyes unto the hills, above all the turns
in the long road. We shall be together one day, and with God. I shall not be
long first. And set down at Christ’s feet in the light of the Golden City, I
count it shall not seem long to wait for him." The child was coming back into
the light. Physically, the burst of tears had relieved her. "And yet, after
all," she said, "I shall miss him, till he comes. One cannot love one instead of
another, even if God be that One. And to love once is to love for ever." "You
can tell the Lord so, dear my Lady." Lady Anne looked up with an expression of
child-like trust and simplicity in her eyes. "Agnes, I am always telling Him."
"And is He not, then, always hearing you?" Light came into the sad blue eyes.
"Aye, He must be always hearing. I thank thee." The door opened, and Marion came
in. "Agnes, here is—O my Lady, I cry you mercy. I wist not you were hither."
"Make an end, Marion," said Lady Anne, with a smile. "Under your Ladyship’s
pleasure.—Agnes, here is one that would have speech of you. He hath brought a
letter, if I err not, and for some cause is desirous to deliver the same into
your own hand." "Go and see to it, Agnes," said Lady Anne kindly: and Agnes left
the room, and descended a long flight of stairs to the base court, where the
stranger awaited her. The stranger! Ah, what a stranger he felt, standing there
in the meanest part of his own house, among strange menials to whom his face was
unknown, for whom his voice had no authority. Did he think of Another who was
Lord and Master of all, and who came unto His own, and His own received Him not?
"You would speak with Agnes Marston, my master?" said a gentle voice close to
him. "I am she." The Duke turned quickly. He wore a long cloak, and a hat which
could be pulled down so as to hide his face. For any eyes to recognise him would
probably be fatal to his errand. Yet the sensation of utter isolation was
oppressive, notwithstanding that. "Gentle Mistress," said he, in a tone and
manner which instantly revealed to Agnes that her visitor was of her own rank or
above it, "I bring you a letter from Mistress Frideswide Marston, in France, and
I pray you of your courtesy to give heed to that which is writ on the outside
thereof." Agnes held the letter up to the lamp, and read—

"Good Sister, I do beseech you to do that which this bearer shall request of
you; and herein fail you not, for the love of me." "My sister desires me that I
will do what you shall ask," she said. "What ask you?" "May I ask it with fewer
ears by?" returned the Duke in a low tone. Agnes nodded. That was a request only
too intelligible in the fifteenth century. She took him aside to a small chamber
where no other person was at that moment. "Now, Master, your will with me?" "I
am the Duke of Exeter," he said simply. "And I pray you, Mistress Agnes, as you
ever loved any human soul, that you will win for me privy speech of the only one
that loveth me—the Lady Anne, my daughter." Agnes looked up, and saw the
yearning, passionate hunger in the poor father’s eyes. She saw nothing more for
a minute. "Sir," she said then, "if I do it not, be assured that it shall be
only because I can no way compass it." "God go with you!" was the reply. Agnes
hastened back to the room where she had left Lady Anne alone with Marion, and
heard to her dismay the sharp tones of the Duchess as she came near the door.
"Heard any ever the like!" cried Her Royal Highness. "’An’ it please me!’  I do
you plainly to wit, my dainty mistress, that it doth not please me. I will have
thee come down and speak with Master Grey. And I will have thee don a better
gown for it, belike.—Agnes Marston, go this minute and lay out the Lady Anne’s
gown of purple velvet.—And go thou and don it. Dost hear?" Lady Anne said no
more, but her whole face betrayed intense dislike to the task imposed upon her,
when she caught the eye of Agnes. The language of the eye was well understood at
that time, when the language of the lips was often dangerous. Lady Anne saw in
an instant that Agnes knew of some reason why she had better leave the room, and
she followed her without another word. Meanwhile the Duke of Exeter stood below,
waiting to know the result of his appeal. Could Agnes convey it at all? and if
she did, would Anne come? Last and saddest question of all, if she came, would
it be the child he knew, altered of course in person, but unchanged in heart? At
last he could keep still no longer. Plantagenet blood was in his veins, and it
was a habit of all the race, when suffering from mental excitement, to pace up
and down like caged tigers. He had sufficient excuse in the cold of a February
evening, and he yielded to the impulse, pausing at every sound to listen—till
the door was flung open suddenly, and a tall, slight maiden, robed in violet
velvet and decked with jewels, dashed into the room, and flung herself into his
arms with a burst of passionate tears. Enough! Enough for the father’s heart!
His little Nan had come back to him. When the first wave had broken, he lifted
the young head with one hand, and looked long and tenderly on the beloved face.
And at the first glance his heart sank down, lower than it had ever been. Come,
but not to stay. Bound on a longer journey than from England to France—than from
earth to stars. He held his darling close clasped in his arms, but it was
probably for the last time. Verily for her the Bridegroom waited, but the bridal
was not of earth. "Nan!" broke from the father’s lips, in tones more eloquent
than a volume would have been. "Little Nan!" "I would I were your little Nan
again," she said. "We were happy then, my Lord—at least I was." "I never was,"
was the sad answer. "I only came near enough to see that I could have been. If
it had been God’s will!" "It will be, my Lord," replied Anne, brightly.
"’_Satiabor cum apparuerit gloria tua_. [#]’"

[#] Psalm xvii. 15. "Dost know, little Nan, that thou didst learn that Psalm at
mine instance? But when will it be, my darling?—when? It is such a long dark
night without thee." Yet as he said the words, the thought smote him to the
heart,—Not long, not long for one of them! "When God’s will is," she responded
simply. "We must wait, my Lord. Oh, this awful war! had it never begun!" She did
not realise that they were parted by any but political reasons—mournful
necessities, which might come to an end some time. It was better she should not.
"Little Nan," said the Duke, "I love not ’my Lord’ from thy lips. Call me
Father." The request was an unusual one. But she looked up and responded as he
wished, with tears glistening in the violet eyes. "You will come and see me
again, Father?" "I will come and see thee again," he echoed—well knowing, as he
spoke, that the interview was not likely to be held on the earthly side of the
cold river. But surely he would meet her again; and it would be he that should
come to her. There would be room in the halls above, and no need to employ a
third person, nor to use secrecy and stratagem in order to meet. Up from the
core of his soul went the passionate cry, "Let us go together! Make no tarrying,
O my God!" He knew now at least, if he had never known it before, that there was
to be no paradise for him outside the Paradise of God. "My Lady!" said the
rather nervous voice of Agnes at the door. "I cry you verily mercy, but—Her
Grace is calling for you." None of them dared to disregard that summons. One
more last embrace! One more last look! From the Duke’s eyes

"No tears fell, but a gaze fixed, long,       That memory might print the face
On the heart’s ever-vacant space     With a sun-finger, sharp and strong." His
very soul seemed to dissolve itself upon her head as he gave her the last
blessing. She tore herself away, and stumbling with tear-blinded eyes over her
velvet train, went up to receive a sharp scolding for loitering from the
Duchess, and some very cold ceremonial speeches from her affianced. All was
over. There was nothing left for that desolate man. Nothing to which he could
look forward! There had been just that one hope, and it was gone. Nothing was
left now to hope or fear. He had come on foot and unattended, in order to avoid
recognition. Mechanically he turned to the river stairs, called a boat, and was
rowed up to Westminster. As he wearily mounted the Palace stairs, the Earl of
Pembroke met him. "Ah, my very good Lord of Exeter! Whither away?" "I know not,
and care less." "Gramercy! what aileth you this starlight even?" "Is it
starlight?" and the Duke lifted his eyes to the glowing heavens, clear in the
frosty atmosphere. "I had not observed it." "Good lack! you must be in the blues
to-night. More shame for you! Here is nought but making ready for the Queen,
whom my Lord of Warwick rideth for to meet as to-morrow. ’Tis thought the wind
may give her leave to come across to-night." "I do desire it, right heartily."
"Heigh-ho! do you desire anything right heartily, with that face?" said Earl
Jaspar, laughing. "Come, my good Lord, what aileth you?" "My Lord, I cry you
mercy, for I wis well I am not merry company. I have this night spoken, as I
think, a long farewell to mine only child. Let me pass, I pray you, till I can
be more like my fellows, and come into your company without spoiling your
mirth—if I ever can." Jaspar stood looking at his friend with eyes of utter want
of comprehension. Exeter "spoke to him who never had a child," and who,
moreover, had but little sympathy with human sorrow. It was inconceivable to
Jaspar why a man should bring his private sorrows into his political rejoicings,
while to Exeter the difficulty would have been to allow the political joy to
temper the private sorrow. Nor was Warwick a whit more sympathising. To weep for
a woman, or anything that concerned one, was his emblem for masculine weakness
of the extremest type. Exeter passed on, and sought refuge in his own chamber,
where he lay down, but did not sleep, that night. But when, the next morning, he
presented himself as usual in the presence-chamber, he found that the Palace of
Westminster held one Christ-like heart—a heart more at home in the house of
mourning than in the house of feasting,—

"A heart at leisure from itself,     To soothe and sympathise." Through the
score of eager, triumphant faces in the presence-chamber, the face upon which
grief was written was instantly visible to those eyes which were worth so little
for earthly foresight, and were so rich toward God. "My Lord of Exeter! The King
calls for you." The King himself was that day at his happiest—with the last
earthly happiness which he was ever to know. He was at home again—and his was a
nature which clung to accustomed things; and he was expecting the daily arrival
of his wife and son, when—as he and every body believed—all would again flow
smoothly, and they would live happily ever after. But Henry was one of those
rare souls who cannot be happy till they have made others so. "I pray you, come
this way, my good Lord," said the King. "There is trouble in your eyes. Is it
aught I may remedy?" "I thank your Highness heartily; but I fear not. There be
evils that none save the King of kings may deal withal." Exeter had not meant to
say another word. But in five minutes—he scarcely knew how—he found himself
telling the whole story of his sorrow to the tender soul which shone in those
royal eyes. "I need not tell you, my good Lord," said the gentle comforter,
"that he were an ill soldier that should lie down to sleep ere the battle were
won. It will not be long ere the battle is over. It seems to me at times"—and
the dark eyes grew dreamy, as they were very wont to do—"as if it were only such
a little while! And then God shall give us back to each other. We have only to
wait for Him." "My Lord, I cry your Highness mercy, but it looks to me this
night a very, very long while." The King smiled on his godson. The spiritual
relationship between them made it only natural that the one should offer
instruction and comfort to the other. He said, "_Unus dies apud Dominum sicut
mille anni, et mille anni sicut dies unus_. "[#]

[#] 2 Peter iii. 8. "Ah, Sire!" said Exeter sadly, "the one day for Him, but for
us the thousand years." The response came quickly. "’_Ego vobiscum sum omnibus
dielus_.’"[#]

[#] Matt. xxviii. 20. "We cannot see our Lord, Sire." "He can see us." "True:
yet, my gracious Lord"——

"My son," said the King tenderly, "He hath written down a word of set purpose
for thee. ’_Quomodo miseretur pater jiliorum, misertus est Dominus timentibus
se_.’  Muse thou thereon, and God lead thee into His peace. "[#]

[#] Psalm ciii. 13. He had said enough, for the Word of God in his lips had
reached the heart of the mourner. It was nothing new—it had been sung in
Exeter’s hearing a hundred times—but it came this time with power. Did God feel
for him just as he felt for that one darling child over whom he was yearning and
lamenting? It said just that. What right had he to water it down, and make it
mean something vague and metaphysical? At last he had found the man who
understood him. The King was a father himself, and a very loving one. And had he
not at last found the God who understood him?—who was indeed his Father, who
loved him as he loved his little Nan? Yes, it would be only a little while. Ah,
how little for him who spoke! Three short months, into which was to be poured an
ocean of living agony, and then he should see God, and be at peace for ever. And
to him who heard, only a little longer. He had but to wait for God. *CHAPTER VI.
*

*THE MIST ON EASTER DAY. *

"Such a day,     An old man sees but once in all his time." —EDWIN ARNOLD. In
vain the "King-Maker" waited at Dover for the Queen. The west wind which had
fallen a little in London, and thus excited their hopes, set in with more
violence than before, and Marguerite, notwithstanding her agony of impatience,
was bound hopelessly at Harfleur. But though winds and waves fought against the
coming of her who was so sorely needed, they seemed powerless to deter him
against whose return all Lancastrians were praying. Backed by the secret
machinations of the Duke of Burgundy, Edward embarked at Ter Veere on the second
of March: and after twelve days’ tossing, landed at Ravenspur on the fourteenth
of that month. Did it strike him as a parallel coincidence that under the same
circumstances, and at the same place, seventy years before, Henry of Lancaster
had landed, softly announcing to the populace that he had no designs upon the
Crown, and came only to recover his own inheritance? Probably it did, for he
imitated his predecessor’s tactics in every particular. He came only to secure
his duchy of York, as he sweetly assured the people of Holderness when they
opposed his landing. Surely they would allow him to proceed to his own
property—to his own city? He was the truest subject King Henry had, nor would he
ever have been otherwise but for the inciting of that wicked Earl of Warwick. He
stuck the ostrich feather in his cap—the badge of Prince Edward,—and solemnly
swore eternal allegiance to King Henry. The honest folks in Holderness were
completely won by this fine-spoken man. They fell back, and let him ride on to
York. But York was held by a Clifford,—sternest of all families adherent to the
House of Lancaster. It was the head of that House—the "Bloody Clifford,"—who,
just ten years before, had gleefully cut off the head of Edward’s father, had
crowned it with a paper crown, and set it high on Micklegate Bar. He, too, had
stabbed young Rutland—the best of the York brothers—in cold blood after the
battle of Wakefield. As Edward came up to York, the ghastly heads upon
Micklegate Bar, the foremost of which was his own father’s, seemed to be the
only friends to welcome him. But though Edward could assume sentiment
exquisitely, when he expected it to pay, he was not in reality much under its
influence. There was no softening at his heart when he rode up to Micklegate,
and sounded his horn for a parley, and proudly desired York to open her gates to
her Duke. The old Lord Clifford would have known better than to rest any faith
on the fair words of the Rose of Rouen. But his kinsman Mr. Thomas was not so
wary. He consented to a parley. And when Edward, at the close of his eloquent
and well-studied speech, ended by flinging up the ostrich-feathered cap into the
air, with the loyal cry of "A, King Harry! A, King and Prince Edward!" the
Governor and citizens of York were won. Beguiled, not conquered, they offered to
let him pass southward on condition that he would swear his allegiance. Edward,
Jesuit to the core, was ready to swear any thing. Had they promised to escort
him to London with an army on condition of his swearing to restore the worship
of Jupiter, the probability is that he would have accepted the oath with
graceful complacency. Micklegate was thrown open, and Edward with his band
passed through, and marched towards London. The reconquest of England was an
easier matter to Edward of York than it had been to Henry of Lancaster. Three
months had elapsed between the landing and coronation of the former; one was
enough for the latter. There were traitors in the Lancastrian camp, whose hearts
were always ready to desert, and who only required to hear that Edward had
landed to induce an immediate and public declaration in his behalf. Foremost of
these was the heavily perjured Clarence, with whom his sister of Burgundy had
been secretly tampering. Edward was now at the head of a very small band,
consisting of nine hundred English and three hundred Flemings. With him were his
faithful friend Lord Hastings, Lord Say, and a few more distinguished persons.
But by the time he came to Nottingham, Sir William Stanley and Sir William
Norris had joined him with four hundred more; and with men slowly coming in to
him along the line of march, he arrived at Leicester. Here was Warwick waiting
for him. A battle was imminent, when letters from Clarence reached Warwick,
stating that he was on his way from London to join him, and begging him not to
fight until he came. Warwick committed the fatal blunder of compliance. Humanly
speaking, had he engaged in battle at once, the probability is that Edward would
have been easily driven out of England. It was not until the 25th of March that
the news of Edward’s landing reached London. The language of the grant of
Tutbury and many other manors to Clarence on the 23rd, intimates that no such
information had reached King Henry on that day. But on Lady Day a proclamation
was issued appointing Clarence, Warwick, and others, to gather the King’s
subjects and to defend the kingdom, "against our enemies and adversaries of
Flanders, Burgundy, and other parts, by the excitation, procuration, and
inducement of our great adversary and rebel, Edward, of late the false,
traitorous, and usurping occupant of our crown and dignity. "[#] Two days later,
the young Prince of Wales was created Viceroy of England against "Edward our
rebel, who, with subjects of Burgundy and Flanders, has landed in the north.
"[#]

[#] Patent Roll, 49 Hen. VI. [#] Patent Roll, 49 Hen. VI. This is the only
occasion on which the language used by, or in the name of, Henry VI. departs
from the calm dignity which characterises it on all others in making mention of
Edward IV. Edward can never allude to Henry without a spiteful addition of "late
in dede and nat of ryght King:"[#] but Henry’s allusions to Edward are always
content with, "Edward IV., late _de facto_ King of England." There is a kind of
feverish spite about Edward’s notices of his rival, which is exchanged for quiet
matter-of-fact in his rival’s notices of him. It is easy to see that Henry had
the better title—because he makes so little fuss over it! [#] Ib., 9 Edw. IV.
and many others. Late on the evening of the 10th of April, George Neville,
Archbishop of York, sat writing in the Bishop of London’s Palace. To this place
the Court had been removed, under the impression that the City would be easier
to defend than the less protected town of Westminster. In an adjoining chamber
King Henry slept the quiet sleep of the just, with his Latin Psalter[#] lying on
the table beside his bed. The Archbishop had paused in his writing, and was
thinking deeply, his head resting on his hand; "when a slight sound caused him
to lift his eyes, and he looked up into the unexpected face of Master John
Shorter, sometime varlet of the chamber to King Edward IV. [#] This Latin
Psalter, originally the property of Richard II., and afterwards of Henry VI., is
now in the British Museum (Cott. MS., Domit., A., xvii. ), a beautifully
illuminated and most interesting volume. "Whence camest thou?" was the
astonished query. "Out of the street," said Shorter, drily. "To what end?" "To
tell your Lordship a thing." "What thing? Prithee, have on with thy matters, and
be done. I am busy." "Your Grace may yet be busier, when King Edward cometh."
"My Lady Saint Mary! What mean you?" "I left him, my Lord, on the hither side of
Herts." "Gramercy! When?" "This morrow at day-break." "Is he on his way to
London town?" "Certes, my Lord." The Archbishop’s face might have furnished, not
one, but several studies for a painter, as successive and diverse emotions swept
across it. Foremost was the true Neville sentiment—How will this affect _me_? He
was silent for a moment, pondering that deeply interesting question. "Did he
send thee to me?" "He did so, my good Lord." "What would he have of me?" Shorter
came close to the desk, and quietly laid down before the Archbishop a parchment
to which a seal was affixed. It was a document, couched in highly flattering
terms, addressed by Edward, by the Grace of God King of England and France, and
Lord of Ireland, to his dearly beloved and faithful, the Most Reverend Father in
God, George, by Divine permission Archbishop of York, conveying his royal pardon
to the said Archbishop, for all treasons, felonies, and offences whatsoever,
committed before the thirteenth day of April, 1471. In other words, the
Archbishop was pardoned beforehand for the sins of the three days next ensuing.
Some people might have felt puzzled as to the ulterior meaning of such a
document. Not so Archbishop Neville. He comprehended to perfection that he was
expected to purchase that parchment, by some tremendous act of service still to
be performed, and requiring official forgiveness from the _de facto_ sovereign.
"What would he?" An expressive pantomime from Shorter pointed first to the door
of King Henry’s chamber, then to a bunch of keys which lay on the desk, and
lastly to the prelate himself. The latter pursed up his lips for a moment.
"Rather ugly work!" he muttered, as if to himself. "Necessity," shortly
suggested the messenger. "Where?" was the equally short answer. "Here. There is,
of course, one unconvenient matter." The Archbishop looked up for explanation.
"That all suspiciousness may be diverted from your Grace, it shall be needful to
arrest you with the other." A nod of intelligence from the Archbishop. "Your
captivity shall be matter but of a few days." The prelate nodded again. "Go you
back to His Highness?" "I have first to speak with Master Recorder, which hath
promised me the key of Aldersgate." "Ha!—when shall this matter be?" "Maundy
Thursday, in the even. ’The better day, the better deed.’"

The Archbishop received the wicked proverb with a grim smile. "Very good: I
undertake it." "I thank your Grace for my master. God give you good even." "The
peace of Christ be upon you! Amen." Which benediction really meant the
expression of a wish that the diabolical bargain just concluded might not be
successful, for surely the last thing likely to come upon its actors was the
peace of Christ. Another sort of peace they had. The City was perfectly calm,
and its guardians utterly unsuspicious, when on the following night, Mr.
Urswick, the Recorder of London, came down with a few more to Aldersgate, and
quietly let in about a dozen men who were waiting outside. They were wrapped in
long cloaks, in which they muffled their faces; and, accompanied by Urswick,
they took their way to the Bishop’s Palace. Behind the postern door the
Archbishop’s servant was waiting, and they were allowed to enter as silently as
possible. Upstairs, in the royal chamber, King Henry sat with that devout
prelate who has been already mentioned. They had been discussing political
matters for a short time, and then the King, turning to a subject more congenial
to himself, had requested the Archbishop’s opinion as to the meaning of a
passage in the Psalms. Both by intuition and education, George Neville was about
as well fitted to judge of the meaning of King David as a snail to decide the
intentions of an eagle. But he was a priest; therefore of course he must be
competent to expound Scripture. The prelate began glibly to explain that of
which he had not the remotest idea, and the King meekly to receive instruction
on a subject with which he was far better acquainted than his instructor. The
notion that he could be better than any body in any possible sense, outside the
mere fact of social position, never occurred to the mind of King Henry, one of
the humblest Christians that ever breathed. A slight click of the door-lock made
the prelate look up. The King was too much interested in his subject, and his
head was bent over the Psalter. In the doorway stood the Recorder of London, and
several others were dimly visible behind him. The traitor knew that the hour of
his treachery had come. "What is this?" he exclaimed, with well feigned
astonishment. "Master Urswick, who be these with you? The blessed saints be
about us! Treachery, my gracious Lord, treachery! Here is my Lord of March!"
Aye, treachery enough! Henry lifted his head, rose, and confronted Edward with a
steady gaze as he came forward boldly into the room. They stood fronting each
other, the two Kings, the cousins and rivals, each of whom saw in the other an
unprincipled usurper. Only, in the one case, the conviction was a calm certainty
that the thing was so, and in the other a feverish determination that it must
and should be. "What dost thou here in my place, thou rebel?" was the insolent
demand of Edward, who had sworn many an oath of allegiance to the man whom he
addressed. "I am here in mine own, as God wot," was the dignified reply. "What
would you with me?" Edward turned to his followers without deigning a reply.
"Take the rebel," said he, "and this priest with him." The Archbishop, with well
counterfeited terror, began to implore mercy. The King asked none, nor did he
waste another word on Edward. He lifted his calm dark eyes heavenward, and
merely said, to the sole Friend who was with him, "_Fiat voluntas Tua!_"

An hour later, he was once more secured in his old dungeon in the Tower. The
gates of London were thrown open, and the northern army of Edward poured into
the City. The Sanctuary was visited, and the Countess of March and her infant
son, now suddenly become the Queen and the Prince, were installed in Westminster
Palace with fitting ceremony. The reign of Henry VI. was over, and the eleventh
year of Edward IV. had begun. The restored monarch was grace and graciousness to
all around him. While he took care to propitiate and make friends of those who
had hitherto been enemies, Edward did not, like his descendant Charles II.,
commit the fatal mistake of overlooking and neglecting to reward his friends. He
gave away twenty tuns of wine (not forgetting to spend some £2800 on himself),
replaced his old officers in their respective state positions, and made up for
the forced abstinence and shabbiness of his recent life by buying a new service
of plate, ordering twenty-one gold collars (doubtless for presents to his
friends who had proved faithful in adversity), purchasing horses, and providing
six new and gorgeous garments—a robe of tawny satin, a doublet of purple satin,
two jackets of cloth of gold, and two "habits" of black damask and crimson
velvet—for his wardrobe. He further expended in alms the munificent sum of £3
3*s*. 4*d*. The Queen does not appear to have required any new clothes, since
provisions and wood are alone bought for her. [#]

[#] Issue Roll, Easter term, 11 Edw. IV. So quietly had this mighty reversion of
state affairs been effected, that the citizens of London were unconscious that
any thing was happening until they saw the army of Edward IV. marching along
their streets. Then, of course, it was too late to express an adverse opinion,
had they wished to do so. The necessary imprisonment of that honourable man,
Archbishop Neville, extended only to a few days. He was received into favour on
the day to which his pardon reached, but was not released from the Tower until a
little later. And then, when it was too late, the wind changed. Three times had
Queen Marguerite set forth from Harfleur, and three times was she driven back on
the French coast. Now, just when all was over which her coming might have
prevented, on the 24th of March, she was able to embark, and she landed at
Weymouth on Saturday night, the 13th of April, which was Easter Eve. Can we come
to any conclusion but that of the contemporary letter-writer, that "God hath
showed Himself marvellously like Him that made us all, and can undo again when
Him list?" It was not immediately upon landing that the mournful news of her
husband’s capture and deposition met her. The news was to be far worse before it
should reach her. She proceeded inland about thirteen miles, as far as the Abbey
of Cerne, and there awaited the ceremonies of Easter. The Prince was with
her—unconscious of his proclamation as Viceroy of England, as well as of the
downfall of all his hopes—the Princess, and their respective suites. While
Marguerite and her companions knelt at mass that Easter morning in the chancel
of Cerne Abbey, with the last hope springing in their hearts which they were
ever to know, scenes very unbefitting Easter-tide were taking place in and near
the metropolis. No sooner had Warwick heard of the return of Edward than he came
dashing down from the north, and with Exeter,[#] Somerset, Montague, Oxford, and
forty thousand men, marched to take the field at Barnet. Exeter and Somerset
wished to wait until the Prince should come up, as they had heard of his
landing: but this Warwick refused to do. He was doubtful of the good faith of
Somerset, who had ere this shown himself remarkably devoid of that quality; to
which motive on Warwick’s part Comines adds another—"the hatred he bore to Queen
Marguerite." [#] Where and when Exeter had joined Warwick we have no
information. It is only known that he was in London on the 14th of February, and
that he came with Warwick from the north on the 13th of April. As soon as Edward
heard of Warwick’s approach, he and his brother of Gloucester went out to meet
him. They took with them carefully one person whom they might have been expected
to leave behind. This was King Henry. Was there in the minds of the royal
brothers of York any sinister intention of exposing their rival to the fate of
Uriah the Hittite? Had Henry fallen, perchance by a stray shot from his own
side, would the pair have mournfully and hypocritically condoled with each other
on the fact that "the sword devoureth one as well as another?" The little town
of Barnet was occupied by Edward, Warwick remaining on the plain without. Late
on that Saturday night, without any previous despatch of a herald, as was usual,
to request an interview, the Duke of Clarence, encamped on Gladmore Heath,
received a visit from his brother of Gloucester. They held a long conversation;
after which Clarence returned with Gloucester to the town, and humbly implored
pardon from his brother Edward. He was likely to be welcomed and forgiven, for
he brought with him twelve thousand men. This little business arranged, Clarence
sent a message to Warwick, informing him of the very interesting occurrence
which had just taken place, and offering to make peace for him also. The envoy
returned with an answer from Warwick which breathed scorn in every syllable. "I
choose rather," said the King-Maker, "to be consistent with myself than to
follow the example of thy perfidy!" The night was now wearing towards
morning—the morning of Easter Sunday. But no sun danced, nor even shone, upon
that awful Easter Day. At four o’clock in the morning the armies met, but in so
thick a mist that no man could see the banner of his feudal lord. Since the
battle of Mortimer’s Cross, where three mock suns had been considered a happy
augury, Edward had borne as his badge a sun with rays: and the Earl of Oxford’s
men, mistaking this sun for the star of the Veres, made the blunder of the
Midianites, and turned their arms against each other. They engaged with
Warwick’s men, and a cry of "Treachery!" was raised by both sides. Oxford fled,
carrying with him eight hundred men. At this juncture Montague (another
"honourable man"), who had been in private correspondence with Edward ever since
he landed, thought it time to turn coat, and did so literally, donning Edward’s
livery under cover of the mist. But some of Warwick’s men caught a glimpse of
the hated blue and murrey, and falling upon Montague, exacted the penalty of his
treachery in his life. Warwick saw that the field was lost. Montague was dead;
Exeter was not to be found; Oxford had fled the field. He mounted his horse, and
tried to make his own escape through the intricacies of a neighbouring wood.
Even here fate met him in the persons of two of Edward’s men, who after a short
sharp struggle, unhorsed and slew the foremost man of their age—the man who,
more or less, for twenty years had had all England at his bidding. It was now
four o’clock in the afternoon. King Edward—king in a sense he had never been
till then,—as the first regal act of his restoration, took his revenge upon the
commons of England for their Lancastrian proclivities. Hitherto, following the
ancient humane custom peculiar to this country (a source of considerable
astonishment to French generals), after a battle, Edward had been accustomed to
mount his horse, and cry loudly over the field, "Quarter for the commons!" The
nobles and gentry of the defeated side were of course put to the sword. But at
Barnet Edward forsook his usual custom. He mounted, indeed, but he left the
commons quarterless to the fury of his soldiers, and he spurred fast to London.
That evening, after Edward had entered his metropolis in triumph, King Henry was
brought, attired in a long gown of blue velvet, from the fatal field of Gladmore
Heath, to that silent dungeon in the Tower which he had occupied so long that it
must have borne almost a homelike look to him, and which he was never to leave
again, except for the better Home above. When the military grave-diggers came to
bury the dead, they found lying on Gladmore Heath the body of the Duke of
Exeter. He had fought manfully, and had fallen at seven o’clock, since which
time he had lain insensible on the field. They took him at first for dead: but
on careful consideration they came to the conclusion that life was not quite
extinct. The party of workers were either Lancastrians, or they were for their
time inexplicably tolerant and humane. Instead of stamping out the little spark
of life, they respected it, and carried the Duke to the house of one Ruthland,
an old servant of his own, who nursed his master back to that life which was
worth so little to him. He was then, on the 26th of May, carried a prisoner to
Westminster, where he was allowed the service of a chaplain, cook, page, and
varlet, with three servants to wait on them. He was detained in this captivity
until the fifteenth of September. [#]  Six shillings and eightpence per week
were allowed for the Duke’s board, two shillings for the chaplain, twenty pence
each for the cook, page, and varlet, and sixteen pence each for the inferior
domestics. [#] Issue Roll, Easter term, 11 Edw. IV.—Rymer is apparently under a
mistake in stating that Exeter fled to Westminster Sanctuary, about two months
after Barnet. The language of the Roll is decisive that Exeter was a prisoner,
and not in sanctuary, between the dates named. King Henry was rather better
treated. Dispute his title as he might, Edward provided for him as for a captive
prince. About half-a-crown per day was allowed for his "diet;" but a strong
guard of thirty-six persons, afterwards gradually reduced to eleven, was thought
necessary for his safe keeping. The corpses of Warwick and Montague were exposed
to popular view, with uncovered faces, in St. Paul’s Cathedral, for four days:
and on the eighteenth of April they were laid with their Montacute fathers in
the church at Bisham. The day after their funeral, the royal pardon was renewed
to their brother the Archbishop. His offence was that of "taking oath to Harry
our great adversary, as to his Sovereign Lord, and to Margaret, calling her
Queen, which if a French woman born, and daughter to him that is extreme
adversary and mortal enemy to all this our land and people," and "assembling
unto him numbers of French men beside other traitors and rebels. "[#]

[#] Close Roll, 11 Edw. IV. Considering that Edward himself had married the
daughter of a French lady, had negotiated previously for his marriage with an
Italian Princess, and had reconquered England with the assistance of Flemings,
this taunt upon Queen Marguerite’s foreign extraction and alien troops is rather
amusing, and marked with as much consistency as usually characterised his
actions. What poor King René of Naples had done, to be singled out beyond all
other persons as the special adversary to the English land and people, may
reasonably be questioned, particularly by those who know his quiet, rather lazy,
artistic disposition. But people in a passion, and people trying to impress
others with a conviction, are not in all cases consistent and truthful. On the
27th of April a solemn proclamation was issued by name of "the King’s rebels and
traitors." The announcement of the names was not made with particular courtesy.
They were "Margaret (with no other distinctive appellation); Edward, her son;
Henry, late Duke of Exeter (whose wife continued to be styled Duchess); Edmund
Beaufort, calling himself Duke of Somerset; John, Earl of Oxford; John
Courtenay, calling himself Earl of Devon; William late Viscount Beaumont; John
Beaufort and Hugh Courtenay, knights." It was solemnly commanded that none
should "give them help, favour, or succour, on pain of death and forfeiture of
all held of us: we calling Almighty God to record that it shall be against our
will and intent. "[#]

[#] Close Roll, 11 Edw. IV. Did it ever strike the man who dictated these words,
that God Almighty had kept a record concerning him, and did he ever think what
his feelings would be, when that record was read out before men and angels? The
Nemesis for the sins of Henry IV. was descending with dire vengeance on the
House of Lancaster. But did he imagine that the House of York should escape the
judgment of God—that the Jehu who had been raised up to destroy the innocent
sons of Ahab, should be permitted to walk with impunity in the sins of Jeroboam?
*CHAPTER VII. *

*THE LAST BATTLE OF THE RIVAL ROSES. *

"May this be borne? How much of agony     Hath the heart room for?" —FELICIA
HEMANS. One enemy remained for Edward IV. to vanquish, and it was a woman: a
woman whose hand he had kissed upon the knee, and whom his Queen had served in
her chamber. So long as husband and son were left to fight for, so long
Marguerite of Anjou was irrepressible and invincible. When they were not, the
complete indifference of despair with which she let the sceptre drop from her
hand, proved that it was not it which she had loved, but them. Yet the dreadful
news which met her at Cerne Abbey for one moment overwhelmed the eager and
resolute spirit. King Henry was once more a captive, and Warwick—who united the
strange characters of her worst enemy in private, and her sole reliable friend
in public—could be neither enemy nor friend any more for ever. The bright head
was bowed down, and tears, such as Marguerite was rarely seen to shed, came
rushing from her eyes. "Oh, let us give it up!" she cried. "Edward, let us go
back to France, and give up the struggle!" "I cry you mercy, Madame my mother!"
was the ringing answer of the Prince. "Never, while another battle may retrieve
all! Look, I pray you—have we not yet the Duke of Somerset"——

"Not to be trusted," said Marguerite, under her breath. "And my Lord of
Oxford"——

"Who fled from us at Barnet." "And my Lord of Devon"——

"Well, yes—I think _he_ may be." The Prince dropped on one knee, and clasped his
mother’s hand in his. "And, sweet Mother, have you not _me_?" The Queen clasped
her darling in her arms, and bent her fair head low upon his darker locks. "_Mon
chéri, mon mignon!_" she cried tenderly, in her own language, not often used
now, for English had become almost the mother-tongue to the woman who had been
Queen of England since she was a maiden of sixteen years. "Aye, my streak of
sunlight, I have thee!—and never will I let thine inheritance calmly fall into
the hands of thine enemies! Come, let us be up and doing. When, on the day of
mine espousals, I set the Rose of England in my bosom, did I not know that I
must wear it with all its thorns? "[#]

[#] The last sentence is in the actual words of the Queen, though not spoken on
this occasion. The momentary sensation of irresolute hopelessness was passed,
and Marguerite was herself again. She held a council of war, at which it was
decided that they should march on the western provinces, which were more loyal
than the midland wherein Warwick had held sway, or the northern of which Edward
was Duke. The ladies were to be left behind in sanctuary, except the one or two
in personal attendance on the Queen, who knew well enough that whoever might
constitute the body of the Lancastrian party, she was and had always been its
soul: and that however her forces might acquit themselves with her, they were
not likely to do well without her. The Countess of Warwick, with her daughter of
Clarence and their suites, had crossed the Channel separately from the Queen,
and had taken refuge at Beaulieu Abbey. But nothing would tempt the young
Princess of Wales to join them. Whether in life or in death, where her heart’s
lord was, there also would she be. The Countess of Devon, in attendance on the
Queen, and Lady Katherine Vaux, in waiting on the Princess, were the sole women
who accompanied the army. From Bath they marched on to Bristol, intending to
join the Earl of Pembroke, Jaspar Tudor, who was coming from Gloucester with his
men. But when the Queen’s army attempted to pass the Severn, they found
themselves intercepted by the men of Gloucester, who urged their necessary
"obeissance to their Duke." Marguerite turned aside, and went on to Tewkesbury.
Perhaps few places in England are less changed than Tewkesbury from the
appearance they presented in the fifteenth century. Not only the grand old Abbey
(alas! restored), but the Bell Inn within a stone’s throw, the old winding High
Street and its hostelry the Bear, are very little altered in outward seeming
from what they were on that night of the third of May, when Marguerite of Anjou
drew up her troops in "the Bloody Field" outside the town. Edward was at
Tewkesbury in person, awaiting what either side felt instinctively would be the
last and decisive battle in the Wars of the Roses. Early the next morning, the
Prince of Wales, who was to command the army, took leave of the royal ladies.
Clasp him close, poor mother! cling to him, young wife! You will do it never,
never any more. It was no act of the Prince, whether of commission or omission,
that lost the day. Victory hung yet in the balance, when Somerset, traitor to
his last breath, fled from his young gallant master, followed by Hugh Courtenay:
and from that moment the field was King Edward’s. The Prince was taken. The
craven Somerset fled to the sanctuary of a church, and he was followed by
Humphrey Audley (who had York blood in his veins), Henry de Ros, James Gower,
the Prince’s standard-bearer, and many more. But Prince Edward, most valuable
prisoner of all, was taken before the conqueror in his royal pavilion. What
followed is well known,—King Edward’s contemptuous query—

"How camest thou, young man, to bear sword against me?" It was met by Prince
Edward’s defiant reply—

"I came to recover my father’s kingdom, and mine own inheritance, out of the
hands of them that had no right to hold it. "[#]

[#] Only the opening words of this speech are commonly quoted. Some chroniclers
say that Edward dashed his gauntleted hand in the face of his young cousin.
Others assert that he merely flung a sign to those around him. Either action was
well understood. Hastings, the King’s faithful servant, and Thomas Grey, his
step-son, the affianced of Anne of Exeter, hurried Prince Edward out of his
presence to the next tent, where the Dukes of Clarence and Gloucester were
standing. There they flung him down. One cry of pitiful appeal rang through the
evening air—"Clarence! _Brother!_" but Clarence stood deaf and motionless.
Gloucester was equally still, but from a very different motive. Then came a
second and a lower moan—"_Jesu, Doming!_"  That was heard. Another instant, and
they had no more that they could do. Edward Plantagenet was with God. Not that
night did Marguerite of Anjou learn all the awful news in store for her. She
heard—from the gentle lips of John Combe—that her army was routed, and the day
lost: heard it, with the young Princess by her side, seated in that charette in
which it had been so difficult to keep her, for she suspected already that fate
was going against her, and she was scarcely restrained from mounting her horse,
and taking the command of her troops. The one worst item—the loss of her boy—did
not reach her then. But what she did hear made her sink down in the charette,
"half-dead." Those about the Queen—very few they were—felt the necessity of
doing for her what she was not in a position to do for herself. They hurried the
royal ladies away from their dangerous place to a little religious house outside
Tewkesbury, where they entered them in sanctuary. Alas for their innocence, if
they expected Edward of York to keep promises or reverence sanctuary! At that
moment he was presenting himself with drawn sword at the door of the church
where so many of the Lancastrian nobles had taken refuge. All honour be to the
brave priest who, pix in hand, resolutely barred the victor’s entrance, until he
had given a solemn promise of pardon to the fugitives. Alas for the fugitives,
that they trusted it! All might have escaped, but trusting to that honour of
which Edward knew so little, they remained in their asylum until the Monday,
when they were marched out and beheaded before the door. Somerset richly
deserved his fate: but this cannot be said of many others. Even Humphrey Audley
was not spared, though King Edward and he were second cousins. [#]

[#] He was the younger son of Alianora de Holand, Lady Audley, daughter of
Constance of York, King Edward’s grand-aunt. Notwithstanding all his specious
words, ties of blood, no less than those of gratitude, weighed as nothing with
Edward of York when a man stood in his way. There was a long funeral procession
that day in Tewkesbury Abbey. The Duke of Somerset, as we are told by his
herald, who was present, was buried "before the image of Saint Jame at an autar
in ye said monastery churche on the northe parte. "[#]  But it was in the very
midst of the church, just under the tower, that they laid the flower of the Red
Rose, "the gallant-springing young Plantagenet," who in the endeavour to recover
his father’s kingdom had sacrificed himself. The rest were buried in one great
grave, dug close to that of the Prince in the nave of the Abbey. [#] Harl. MS.
545.—This tomb was removed at a later date, and is now on the south side of the
chancel. The next step on the part of Edward was to capture the two hapless
ladies who had taken refuge in the little nunnery. Sir William Stanley—an old
enemy of the Queen—was sent to do this; and he is said to have behaved as
brutally as he well could, and in particular to have broken to the bereaved
mother the news of her boy’s death in the most inhuman manner. Driven almost to
frenzy by the suddenness and anguish of the blow, Marguerite broke forth into
passionate execrations upon Edward and all his posterity, which Stanley had the
cruelty to repeat to the conqueror, when, on the 11th of May, he brought his
prisoners to Coventry. The royal mourners were conveyed southwards together,
captives in the victorious train of the Rose of Rouen. One more attempt,
however, was to be made in the Lancastrian cause, like the last expiring gleam
of a candle ere it dies out. The Governors of Calais, Sir Walter Wretill and Sir
Geoffrey Gates, despatched the brave, if somewhat rash, Thomas Fauconbridge "to
raise Kent, and deliver King Henry from the Tower." It was only a dying flash,
but it roused the Yorkists to instant action. Lord Rivers was sent down to Kent
and Lord Bourchier to Essex by the Council; Lord Dudley, with a hundred
soldiers, was put in charge of the Tower, where defensive works were cast up in
haste in less than a week; Lord Hastings was despatched to supersede the
Governor of Calais, and Lord Pembroke sent to South Wales "to capture rebels,
and reduce the King’s castles to his obedience." The citizens of London, that
unknown and difficult quantity, were complimented by the gift of two tuns of red
wine, "expended on them after the conflict at Mile-end against the rebels. "[#]
For the safe custody of Rochester Castle, a squire of the body was sent down, by
name Thomas St. Leger, of whom we shall hear again. [#] Issue Roll, Easter term,
11 Edw. IV. This Roll is one of the most interesting state papers ever penned.
The insurrection was quashed. But how many more might arise? It was no doubt
extremely inconvenient to be perpetually in risk of another; and Henry VI. had
still friends enough to make Edward’s throne a very uneasy seat. So long as the
Lancaster King lived, the York King would have a thorny time of it. There was
only one way to end the difficulty: and there was one man who was ready to take
it. On the twenty-first of May, King Edward, accompanied by his brother of
Gloucester, and carrying his captives in his victorious train, made his
triumphal entry into the City of London. The Queen and Princess were lodged in
the Tower. They were now under the same roof as King Henry. If any ray of hope
ever entered Marguerite’s heart after Tewkesbury, it must have been that night,
at the thought of a possible meeting with the husband from whom she had been
parted for six weary years. She may well have imagined that fate had done its
worst, and no further sorrows could yet be in reserve for her. But the worst had
only begun to come. Whether it were that night or a few days later,—within one
week from her imprisonment in the Tower, Marguerite of Anjou was a widow. When
and how did Henry VI. die? The how has often been disputed: but the when has
generally been considered less doubtful. The popular belief for centuries was
that, weary of the continual risk and fear, Gloucester went to the Tower on that
same night of his arrival in London, and with one stroke of his dagger ended the
Wars of the Roses, and the sorrows of Henry of Lancaster. The courtier Comines
writes cautiously: Henry was killed by Gloucester, "if what was told me be
true." Had he in his heart believed it untrue, would he have thus mentioned it?
One dry old chronicler remarks that Henry died on the twenty-first of May, "the
Duke of Gloucester and his men being in the Tower that night." Stow says that
his body was carried to St. Paul’s in an open coffin on the 22nd. Stow,
Sandford, Baker, and Mezeray have no doubt of the murder. It was not until the
last century that it was ever questioned, and then by writers who were desirous
to whitewash the decidedly black character of Richard III. But so far as I know,
no one has ever noticed on either side the singular fact recorded on the Issue
Roll, that Henry did not die on the twenty-first at all. There may have been
some reason—now perhaps inscrutable—why Edward wished to convince the public
that Henry did die on that day: but his own Roll, meant for no eyes but those of
safe persons, unquestionably indicates that Henry was living until the 27th of
May, six days later. His "diet" is charged until the latter day. There may have
been some show of reason, as putting a stop to all future trouble, why the
public should believe Henry to be dead when he was not: but what possible cause
could there be for entering on the Roll a false statement with the object of
showing Henry to be alive when he was really dead? The question of course
arises, whose was the body exposed to view in St. Paul’s on the twenty-
second?—even if we put aside the sensational item that the corpse bled wherever
it rested, on account of the presence of the murderer as chief mourner. The Roll
above mentioned, which gives the expenses of Henry’s funeral, makes no mention
of the day of burial. Perhaps the difficulty is best left unsolved, with just
one statement—that Gloucester was perfectly capable of the crime laid to his
charge: and that the main point of circumstantial evidence in determining the
question, is to decide whether Gloucester was or was not at the Tower on the
27th of May. The strongest evidence known to me in Gloucester’s favour is the
assertion of Fleetwood, adopted by the usually careful and accurate Carte, that
Henry was found dead, probably of apoplexy, on the night of the twenty-first of
May. This was of course the York version of facts. But if, as has been shown,
the date is conclusively disproved by the testimony of the Issue Roll, may not
the circumstances be equally far from true? It was so exceedingly in the
interest of Edward that Henry should die just at that moment, that the suspicion
of his death having been humanly assisted will never be removed as long as the
world lasts. Very little expense attended the funeral of the dead. Twenty ells
of linen cloth, wax, and spices, were provided; two men only carried torches
(the number usually corresponding with the years of the deceased); a few
soldiers of Calais watched the corpse; and to five orders of friars a pittance
was given for masses, wretched indeed when compared with the usual outlay. The
whole cost was under £43—just the price that King Edward paid about the same
date for a crimson velvet jacket. There is nothing but pure fancy as the source
of the scene imagined by our greatest dramatist, wherein Gloucester makes love
to the young Princess of Wales when she officiates as chief mourner at King
Henry’s funeral. The poor Princess was an outlaw and a prisoner in the Tower at
that moment, and assuredly never held any such position, any more than she lent
willing ear, whether first or last, to any such words. The body of King Henry
was buried at Chertsey Abbey, where it rested until Gloucester himself was King,
when, on the 12th of August, 1484, it was finally removed to his birthplace,
Windsor. Many days had not elapsed after the funeral of the dead King, when
London was startled with the news that the Princess of Wales was missing. How
she had made good her escape no man knew: that she was no longer a prisoner in
the Tower was the one thing certain. Princess, indeed, no one now called her. As
her father’s daughter, she was still the Lady Anne: and this title now replaced
the royal one. The first idea was that she had taken refuge at Beaulieu with her
mother; but this was soon found to be a mistake. The Countess of Warwick was
still in sanctuary, though her elder daughter, the Duchess of Clarence, had
departed at once to take her proper place at Court as King Edward’s sister-in-
law: and from her honorary imprisonment poor Lady Warwick was inditing pitiful
letters to every person whom she thought likely to have any influence with King
Edward, in the hope of procuring her pardon. She addressed herself to every
member of the royal family in turn; and she notes as a special grievance in the
petition she presently offered to the King, that "in the absence of clerkes, she
hath wretyn l’res with her owne hand. "[#]

[#] Cott. MS. Jul. B. xii., fol. 317. Bitterly she complains that the King had
sent letters to the Abbot of Beaulieu, on account of some "synester informacion
to his said Highness made," with orders to keep her in strict prison, which was
a deep grief to her. She pleads her sore poverty, being cut off from all
enjoyment of her jointure and dower of the earldom of Salisbury, and also from
her own Despenser lands and earldom of Warwick: and lastly, she represents that
she has no opportunity of putting her case into the hands of any solicitor, nor,
if she had, is there one that would dare to undertake it. Edward paid little
attention to this sad appeal. Clarence had his brother’s ear: and Clarence had
set his mind upon one thing,—to hand down to his children the vast Warwick
inheritance, undivided. In order to do this, he grudged his mother-in-law every
unnecessary penny: and he determined that so far as in him lay, his sister-in-
law, the Princess of Wales, should never marry again. There was much danger of
this calamity: not because of any wish to that effect on the part of the girl-
widow, whose heart was buried for ever in the nave of Tewkesbury Abbey, and
whose sole ambition was to creep out of sight and hearing of the hard, cold
world, into some quiet corner, where she could wait undisturbed until God called
her to rejoin her dead. The danger arose not from her, but from the Duke of
Gloucester. From his early boyhood, Richard of York had loved Anne Neville; or
rather, to put it more accurately, he loved himself, and he found in Anne
Neville a plaything the possession of which was necessary to his happiness. That
he did not love her, he plainly showed by his actions. Had he done so, he would
have let her alone, which was all the grace she asked at his hands. But
Gloucester, like most human beings, looked upon love and persecution as
exchangeable terms. He wanted Anne Neville: whether she wanted him was a point
quite unnecessary to take into the account. And Anne did not want him. On the
contrary, she intensely disliked him. It was not possible for her to compare to
his advantage such a man as this, whose soul was ten times more crooked than his
body, with her tender, brave, gallant young Plantagenet, whose death

"had made all earth and heaven     One vaulted grave to her." It was not his
disadvantages of person which made Anne shrink from Gloucester like a bird from
a snake. Had the characters been exchanged, matters might have been very
different. These being the circumstances of the case, Anne had lent a willing
ear to the overtures of Clarence, who sent her secret messages during her
imprisonment, offering to deliver her from the Tower and keep her in hiding from
Gloucester. His object was to prevent her from requiring her share of the
Warwick lands: hers was to get rid of persecution from a man whom she hated.
Both being agreed upon the means, however they might differ in the object,
Clarence contrived to steal Anne out of the Tower, and secreted her in a very
romantic manner. The Princess of Wales was actually placed in service, as a
cook, in "a mean house" in the City of London. So thoroughly was she concealed,
that nearly two years elapsed before the indefatigable Gloucester succeeded in
discovering the place of her retreat. King Edward appears to have been at this
time in a most gracious frame of mind, which he evinced by scattering pardons
and honours broadcast on all sides. Fauconbridge, the latest insurrectionist in
favour of the House of Lancaster, was not only pardoned, but made Vice-Admiral.
Bishop Waynflete, Lord St. John, and even the Earl of Oxford, were taken into
favour. The poor Countess, his mother, who was Warwick’s sister, was left in
such poverty for some time that she was reduced to earn her bread by her needle,
until Edward was pleased to awake to the fact of her existence, and to grant her
a pension of £100 per annum. The Duke of Gloucester was created Lord High
Chamberlain, the Earl of Wiltshire Chief Butler, and the Earl of Essex Treasurer
of the Exchequer. The castles of Middleham and Sheriff Hutton—possessions of
Warwick—were granted to Gloucester, who had always been Edward’s favourite
brother, notwithstanding the anger of Clarence at this poaching on his
preserves. The King also granted all the lands of John Lord Lovell, deceased, to
his sister the Princess Elizabeth and her husband, John Duke of Suffolk, son of
the famous Duke who had been the counsellor of Queen Marguerite. This was a
stroke of policy, for Suffolk was a Lancastrian. But now that Henry VI. and his
son were dead, numbers of Lancastrians came in and offered themselves as
henceforward loyal subjects of Edward IV., who had now in their eyes become the
rightful King. Thomas Earl of Ormonde led the van: and he was followed by Jaspar
Earl of Pembroke, the late King’s half-brother, by the Duke of Exeter from his
prison, various members of the Courtenay and Clifford families, and among
others, not least, by Margaret Duchess of Somerset, the mother of the only
person living who could on any pretence of right dispute the crown with Edward.
This was Margaret Beaufort, Countess of Richmond, heiress of the Beauforts, and
widow of Edmund Tudor, the elder but deceased half-brother of King Henry. The
Beauforts, who were the illegitimate children of John of Gaunt by Katherine
Swynford, the lady who afterwards became his third wife, had been formally
legitimated in 1397, by a patent which distinctly pronounced them capable of
succeeding, to all "honours, dignities, positions, and offices, public and
private, whether permanent or temporary, and to all feudalities and nobilities,
by whatsoever name known, whether dukedom, princedom, earldom, barony, or other
fief, mediately or immediately held of us ... as if they had been born in lawful
wedlock. "[#]

[#] Patent Roll, 20 Ric. II., Part 2. This language undoubtedly qualified the
Beauforts for the royal succession, and was meant to do so:[#] but at the time
the patent was drawn up, there was little reasonable probability of any such
event, for not only the reigning Sovereign, but the whole House of Lancaster,
lay between them and the throne. But now that the royal family was reduced to
the children of Richard Duke of York, and the heiress of the Beauforts, Edward
IV. was very naturally jealous of the latter. Under the old law, she stood
before him; and it was therefore necessary for his peace that some bar should be
provided to her further advance. This was the more desirable, since she had a
son, a clever youth of fifteen years, concerning whom an anecdote, very awkward
for Edward, was in circulation among the populace. Five years[#] before this,
Jaspar Tudor, going into Wales, where young Richmond was residing with Lord
Pembroke, had brought him back with him, and presented him to King Henry. The
King was reported to have said, laying his hand on the boy’s head as he spoke,—

[#] The qualifying words "the royal dignity excepted," are over-lined, in
blacker ink and in a later hand than the original entry. [#] This is the date
usually given; but an earlier one is more likely to be true, since in 1466 King
Henry was a prisoner. "Much striving there is between us; but this is he to whom
both we and our adversaries must submit." There can be little doubt that Henry
regarded his young nephew as his heir presumptive, a fact which in itself was
likely to rouse Edward’s jealousy against the boy: and even now a popular
reaction was beginning in favour of the deceased King, which took the form of
reverence for the sanctity of his life, and disposition to believe in his powers
of prediction. The last item was rather helped than hindered by his
predisposition to insanity, for in the Middle Ages a man with impaired
intellect, in whatever form, was always regarded as one with whom God held
direct communication. The particular form of madness which had afflicted King
Henry, and which was characterised not by any kind of passion or violence, but
by silence and dreaminess—an apparent absence of the soul from the body—was
especially looked upon as indicative of inspiration. King Henry’s own account of
these attacks of aberration was that they were simply a blank to him, and that
he had not the slightest idea of any thing that had taken place. It may be that
to a man of his tender, sensitive, affectionate nature, placed as he was in
these dreadful circumstances, these seasons, resting both mind and body, were
God’s greatest mercy. At this early date after Henry’s death, a strong wish for
his canonisation had already arisen. Had those who aspired to canonise him after
death been a little more friendly to him in life, it would have been a state of
things much more to his advantage. But this is human nature. We worry our friend
into his grave, and then we call him poor dear So-and-so, and wear his portrait
in a locket. All these facts tended to make Edward’s throne an uneasy seat, and
caused him to be very anxious to get hold of young Richmond. His grandmother,
the Duchess of Somerset, had returned to her allegiance: but his mother, the
Countess of Richmond and Wiltshire, made no sign. His uncle Jaspar was watching
over the boy; and no sooner did he hear that Edward was endeavouring to discover
him, than he fled with him across the Channel, and delivered him into the safe
keeping of the Duke of Bretagne. Seeing that his dangerous rival had escaped his
hands, Edward thought it desirable to assure himself of the fidelity of his
nobles to his son. The little child of eight months old was created Prince of
Wales, Duke of Lancaster, and Earl of Cornwall; and on the 3rd of July, in "the
Parliament Chamber" at Westminster, the Lords Spiritual and Temporal swore
allegiance to him. [#]  Among those who took this oath is specially named, third
on the list, his uncle of Gloucester. An entire household was appointed for the
baby Prince—Chancellor, Seneschal, and Chamberlain. [#] Close Roll, 11 Edw. IV.
On the 27th of August, a patent of pardon was issued for five Lancastrians.
Three were men of no note. The others were described as "Henry, calling himself
Duke of Exeter," and "Jaspar Owen, calling himself Earl of Pembroke. "[#]  It
was not, however, for three weeks after this, that Exeter was suffered to leave
his prison. He came out to find such a pestilence raging all over the country as
had not been known in England for many years—scarcely since the "black death" in
the reign of Edward III. No borough town in England was free. King and Queen
went on pilgrimage to Canterbury as an expiation for the sins which had caused
it. But, as a set-off to this humiliation, the personal expenses of King Edward
for this half-year—the bloodiest period of his reign—amounted to a sum which no
previous King of England had ever approached. The details of this expenditure,
from April to September, 1471, will be found in the Appendix. They throw more
light on the King’s character than pages of description. [#] Patent Roll, 11
Edw. IV., Part I.—The scribe probably omitted a word, and meant to describe the
son of Owen Tudor as Jaspar ap Owen. Perhaps, had Edward—and it may be more than
he—carefully studied his account-book, it might have given him some intimation
of the quarter wherein those sins lay for which he rode to Canterbury to do
penance. *CHAPTER VIII. *

*THE END OF A WEDDING-DAY*

"Aye, there’s a blank at my right hand     That ne’er can be made up to me."
—HOGG. "And how goes it with the fair Grisacres, Sellinger?" The question was
asked by King Edward IV., who was lounging in an attitude of lazy ease on a
"day-bed," the ancestor of the modern sofa. His Majesty’s life was spent in
alternations between taking his ease in the very easiest of ways, and fits of
fiery bravery when occasion called them forth. The gentleman addressed was
Master Thomas St. Leger, a squire of the body, to whom Edward had granted the
marriage of Jane Grisacres, one of the chamberers of his sister of Exeter. This
meant that the young lady was an heiress, and that the gentleman was at liberty
either to marry her himself, or to make merchandise of her to some other person.
The inclinations of the lady were not considered. Her sole opportunity,
therefore, if she did not admire her master, lay in making herself so extremely
disagreeable to him that he might prefer to sell her. "I humbly thank your
Highness, all goes rarely well," replied St. Leger, with a courtesy. St. Leger
was a good-looking man of some five and twenty years, with light hair, which, in
accordance with fashion, he wore very long, and cut quite straight all round.
"That is well. I would fain do thee some grace for thy service," said Edward,
rising, and calling another of his squires to attend him, he lounged out of the
room. King Edward IV. was the handsomest man of his age. "A more beautiful
person," says Comines, "never did mine eyes behold." He was very tall,—six feet
three inches—of extremely fair complexion, light brown hair, and blue eyes—true
Plantagenet colours: but he grew corpulent in his later years—a blemish which at
this time had not begun to appear. Like most persons at that period, he wore his
hair very long, but neither beard, whiskers, nor moustache. "What though the
face be fair,       What though the eye be bright,     What though the rare and
flowing hair       Vie with the rich sunlight,—     If the soul which of all
should the fairest be,     If the soul which must last through eternity       Be
a dark and unholy thing?" And certainly, in Edward’s case, the beauty of the
outward man was very far from corresponding with the inner man of the heart. A
rather peculiar smile curled the lip of the squire after the King’s departure.
"His Highness would fain do me some grace—would he so?" he inquired half aloud,
and to all appearance addressing himself to a fly which was marching up the
diamond-shaped panes of the window. "What should he say, trow, an’ he wist of
the grace which another thinks to do me?" The same evening saw Mr. St. Leger a
visitor at Coldharbour, for the purpose of carrying on that wooing which was now
beginning to be thought decorous even in these cases where the lady was not free
to refuse—though, of course, capable of omission if preferred. Half an hour he
spent with Mistress Jane Grisacres in the hall—a half-hour which was a weary
weight to him, and a moment of enchantment to her, for—alas for poor Jane
Grisacres!—she loved the handsome suitor who cared so little about her. This
business well over, Mr. St. Leger slipped out of the hall, and passed lightly up
a spiral staircase, to do his real wooing in another chamber, to a lady who had
double the beauty, and ten times the position, but not one per cent. of the
heart, of poor Jane Grisacres. Men and women do not leap, but grow, into
monsters of iniquity. Dionysius the Tyrant, Pope Alexander the Sixth, Judge
Jeffries, and Robespierre, were all innocent babies once. The heart not yet
hardened in sin shrinks back from the first touch of what it recognises as evil,
with the cry, "Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this thing? "[#]

[#] These words have passed into an English proverb, and are here used in their
current sense: but it should be remembered that in that sense they are not a
Scriptural quotation, the key-note word being omitted from the sentence. Hazael
really said, "Thy servant the dog, shall he do this great thing?" In other
words, Is so mean a creature as I to attain to so high a position as you
intimate? His feeling, therefore, was not righteous indignation, but rather
rapturous astonishment. But when the evil is not recognised, how then? There is
no shrinking from Satan when he comes to us clad in the robes of an angel of
light. One of the most skilful touches of the wonderful tinker is that passage
where Christian and Hopeful admit that they were forewarned to beware of the
Flatterer. "But we did not imagine (said they) that this fine-spoken man had
been he." When the Lady Anne of York, in her innocent girlhood, scarcely more
than a child, stood at the altar with Henry Duke of Exeter, she would probably
have repulsed with indignant horror the prophet who should have told her that
ere twenty years were over, she would fling overboard, careless what fate he
met, the husband who would have loved her if she had given him leave, for the
sake of a young man who was merely attracted by her beauty, rank, and wealth.
She was ready to do it now. Beginning by simply amusing herself with the young
squire, then regarding him as a friend, she had reached a point at which she was
willing to abnegate rank, and sacrifice even her hoarded wealth, sooner than
part with him. The matter was easily managed. A Princess would find it no hard
matter to obtain a divorce. Of course the King must be amused with some other
reason than the true one, as he might not fancy a marriage between his sister
and his servant. But it was easy enough to take him in, by a little virtuous
indignation about the wicked Lancastrian proclivities of the Duke, which made it
utterly impracticable for the Duchess ever to bear him again. Edward’s own
constancy was not so remarkable that he could afford to be severe upon Anne. And
what of the delicate maiden whose one tie to life was that father who was thus
to be cast away and left to his fate? Her mother did not find it convenient to
consider her. She was to be married to Thomas Grey. If she did not like him,
worse luck! What more could be said? She must put up with her fate, as others
had done before her. It did, however, strike the Duchess that it might be as
well to get her daughter’s marriage over before her own. The divorce could take
place any time—the sooner the better. She had already induced her royal brother
to make sundry small grants of minor offices and inexpensive manors to St.
Leger: and His Majesty was just now very busy—partly occupied in settling
political difficulties, and partly in recruiting his recent heavy exertions.
Among the former were a quantity of pardons to Lancastrians who had submitted
themselves—among whom was a mercer of London, by name William Caxton, whose
thoughts were busy on the setting up of that quiet little printing-press at
Westminster which was to revolutionise the world; the removal of Clarence from
Court (where he was eternally quarrelling with Gloucester) by creating him
Viceroy of Ireland; the re-arrest of Archbishop Neville, under cover of a
friendly visit from the King, who gleefully appropriated his £20,000 worth of
personalty, and broke up his mitre to make a crown for himself. Edward was still
worried on the subject of Richmond, whom he was trying hard to induce to come to
England, alleging as his sole object the desire to restore his dear young
kinsman to his forfeited inheritance: but the Duke of Burgundy—with whom
Richmond had now taken refuge—at the last moment stopped the negotiations, on
hearing from the proverbial little bird that what Edward really wanted with his
dear young kinsman was to show him the same civility which Herod did to John the
Baptist. King Edward’s recourse, under these accumulated annoyances, for rest
and refreshment, was as usual to a sylvan recreation which was a mixture of
picnic and hunting tour, gorgeous pavilions being pitched for that galaxy of
Court ladies without whom life would in his eyes have been a howling wilderness.
The Duchess of Exeter and her daughter were among the royal guests. The
flirtation between the former and Mr. St. Leger was thereby considerably
promoted: while the aversion of the Lady Anne for Mr. Thomas Grey was very far
from lessened. The Duchess, however, pushed on the settlements and preparations:
and soon after the King’s return to Westminster, both events were ready to
happen. The divorce came first. On the twelfth of November, 1472, the marriage
of the Duke and Duchess of Exeter was dissolved by Papal bull: and in the
following January, the Lady Anne de Holand was made to give her hand—_not_ with
her heart in it—to the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth. On the evening before this
sacrifice was offered at the shrine of politics and propriety, the Lady Anne,
and several of her mother’s chamberers, were gathered at Coldharbour. The bride
had been trying on her wedding-dress, which Jane Grisacres and Marion Rothwell
were carefully folding up. It was of rich crimson velvet, heavily furred with
ermine, and was almost too great a weight for the slight shoulders which drooped
beneath it. Suddenly there was an exclamation from Jane. "Help us, holy Mary! If
I have not lost my locket!" "Dear heart!" responded Marion. "Look and see if it
have not catched in my Lady’s gown." The search was made, but without success.
"Woe is me! I had liefer have lost all mine having rather than yon locket,"
lamented Jane. "I know wherefore," suggested the teazing Tamzine, in that
tantalising style which is always meant to provoke a request for further
explanation: and Marion, who was not devoid of curiosity, responded as Tamzine
intended she should. "Wherefore? The saints be about us! Had she not yon locket
for a token of Master Sellinger? _I_ know!" announced Miss Thomasine, in a tone
which called the colour into Jane’s face. The last-named young lady was still
hunting for her lost treasure, in likely and unlikely places, with a running
accompaniment of remarks addressed to nobody, such as are usual in similar
cases. "I am assured I put it on this morrow!—Dear, dear, but to think of
it!—Where can it be?—I have looked every whither!—Had ever poor maid such an ill
loss?" "It had his hair in it, I warrant you," said Marion, not ill-
naturedly—she was not an ill-natured girl—but with that spice of enjoyable
excitement at the least adventure or misadventure, which gave Rochefoucauld the
occasion to observe that there is something exhilarating in the misfortunes of
our friends. "Not it, forsooth!" said Tamzine. "Master Sellinger is not he that
should lay violent hands of his greatest treasure to please a woman." "Is his
hair his greatest treasure?" laughed Marion. "Trust me!" was Tamzine’s
sententious response. "Have you ne’er beheld him shake it with yon delicate turn
of his head that he hath? Why, he beareth it a good inch longer than any other
in the Court." "Good lack! the man is a very popinjay,"[#] said Marion. "He
might be a maid, with his pouncet-box and his pomanders. "[#]

[#] Parrot. [#] The pomander, now becoming old-fashioned, was a ball of sweet-
scented drugs enclosed in a network of metal, which was held in the warm hand to
call out its fragrance: the pouncet box had taken its place, and was filled with
sweet powder. "And his little mirror stuck of a little poke[#] of his
doublet—have you ne’er watched him pull it forth when he counted him unseen?"
[#] Pocket is the diminutive of poke. "Nay, verily! but doth he so? That
passeth! "[#]

[#] Surpasses belief. "Use your eyes," said Tamzine. "Jane, sweet chuck, give up
searching for a needle of a bottle of hay. The cat hath it, I’ll be bound, or
some animal belike." In which Miss Tamzine was not so far wrong, seeing that the
missing article lay in her own pocket. "Cats eat no lockets, trow," said Marion.
"Nay, but I cannot," answered Jane in a distressed voice. "I had never yet
heavier loss in all my life." "Good sooth, your life must have been a merry
one," said Tamzine. "I have lost father and mother," added Marion. "Somewhat
passing a locket, belike." "I have lost worser than that," said the cynical
Tamzine, "for I had eleven hundred pound put out to usury, and he that had it
paid me ne’er a plack." "Dear heart! how came that?" said Marion. "Father Nokes
said it came of the temptation of Satan, and the evilness of men’s hearts," was
the demure reply of Tamzine. "What was your worst loss, Agnes?" asked Marion.
Agnes had to think. "I scarce can tell," said she. "I were o’er young when my
mother died to feel any loss." "What happy maids be ye!" came softly from Lady
Anne, who had listened hitherto without joining. "Dear damsels, I pray you to
thank God that the worsest loss ye know is the loss of death." "Can there be a
worser, Madam?" "Aye, Marion, there be losses in life far wofuller." "Your
Ladyship scarce speaks from your own knowledge, methinks." "Aye, but I do!"
answered the bride sadly. "We may lose our living, in a sorer fashion than our
dead. The dead can go no further from us than they be: and the day cometh when
we shall go to them. But the living may go further away from us till they never
come back again: aye, and worser—for they may go further and further from God
till they never come back to Him. And who shall measure the loss of a lost
life?—who shall measure the loss of a lost soul?" "Cheery talk for a bride of
her wedding-eve!" muttered Marion, not for Lady Anne to hear. Nor did she hear
it. She sat by the table, resting her head upon her hand, and her thoughts
evidently far away. Probably they were either on the life that lay before her,
or on the father whom she might never see again. "Oh dear!" exclaimed poor Jane,
standing up from the cramped position in which she had been hunting for the
missing locket. "I must give it up till daylight come. Our sweet Lady grant it
be not truly lost!" "Not a bit of it," said Tamzine peremptorily: and reasonably
enough, since she knew where it was. "I will help you look for it to-morrow,"
said Agnes kindly. "Truly, I am beholden to you," replied Jane. "I would give a
gold half-angel to know where it were." "Give it me," said Tamzine, holding out
her hand. "I am going to-morrow even to see the White Witch of Bermondsey."
"Wait and see if the locket be found afore the even," wisely suggested Marion.
"Won’t be," said Tamzine. Jane, whose chief failing was being too easily led,
paid over the five shillings to Tamzine without taking Marion’s advice. "We must
be early abed, maids," said Lady Anne, rising, with a weary air. "We must needs
be stirring early, and ’tis now so late the night shall not be long." She turned
away from them, to go to her own chamber, with a hollow cough which smote
painfully on Agnes Marston’s heart. "Not long!" she said to herself, in another
sense. "No, dear, gentle, suffering maiden—the night will not be long!" The next
morning rose brilliantly clear, and cruelly cold. There was a keen frost, and a
keener east wind: but it was _de rigueur_ that the bride must wear no covering
on her head except a coronal of gems. She bore herself royally, with no sign of
the outward sufferings which were consuming her life, any more than of the
inward anguish which was gnawing at her heart. The marriage took place at
Greenwich Palace, after a freezing voyage: and the bride was given away by her
royal uncle. All the chamberers of course were present, and so were the people
of England, represented by as many as could squeeze into the Palace chapel. Men
and women of all ranks were there: but only two pairs of eyes noticed one man,
muffled in a thick cloak as if he felt the cold, who stood back in the furthest
corner. Agnes thought she could guess who he was; and she contrived to leave the
chapel by the door close to which he stood. As she passed him in the crush, the
Duke slipped a scrap of paper into her hand, with a significant look. Agnes hid
it hastily, for it was not for a long time that she dared to examine it. There
was a grand banquet to be gone through, and a series of dances and games in the
Palace hall; and hours were over before Agnes could without notice slip away
from the dancers, and in the recess of a window where no eyes saw her, unfold
the Duke’s missive. "I would fain speak with you," it ran. "Dare you come alone
to the waterside, without the little postern, as soon as the dark falleth? Risk
nothing: but if you can come, you shall find me there." It was growing dusk
already. Agnes listened for a moment to the sounds of mirth which came surging
from the hall. No one would miss her there. She tied a hood over her head, and
ran down to the little postern. True to his appointment, the Duke was walking
slowly up and down, muffled in his cloak. "May Christ bless you, my good
damsel!" he said warmly, as Agnes made her appearance. "I do heartily trust that
no ill shall hap to you for this grace. Now tell me quickly, for I would not
keep you to your harm—what manner of man is this Master Grey? Since he were babe
have I never seen him. What is in him?—what hath he done?" Ah, Agnes knew of one
thing he had done, which so far as in her lay must be kept from the ears of
Anne’s father for ever. Could she look up into those mournful, longing eyes, and
tell him that the man into whose hands his one darling had fallen was one of the
murderers of Prince Edward? She cast her eyes downwards, and played nervously
with her chatelaine. "Methinks, my gracious Lord, not much hath been yet known
of the young gentleman." "Perchance, not much," answered the Duke quietly: "yet
something, my gentle maid, which you would fain not tell me." Agnes took refuge
in the smaller of the two evil actions of which she knew Grey to be guilty. The
smaller—yet showing, as straws show how the wind blows, that he was capable of
the greater. "I have seen him not o’er good to his dog," said she. "But I know
not much of his conditions." The Duke sighed. "Doth my little maid love him?" he
asked. "Was she willing to wed with him?" It was an unusual idea for that time,
and would scarcely have been asked but by an exceptionally tender-hearted
parent. Agnes shook her head. "O my darling, my darling! My little white dove!"
"My Lord," said Agnes tremulously, "it will not be for long." "I know it. And
then—I shall have nothing left to live for." Agnes Marston was one of those shy,
undemonstrative, yet deeply-feeling natures, to whom talking of any thing they
feel deeply is all but impossible. The fervent souls who wear their hearts upon
their sleeves never comprehend a nature like this. They always think them cold,
impassive, unfeeling. Yet such have shown themselves capable of martyr death:
and they beyond all others can live the martyr life. [#] The most suffering
life, and the most saintly, is the life that has no outlet except towards God.
[#] I would fain take this opportunity of protesting against a very common
misapprehension (as it appears to me) of a passage of Scripture, by which hearts
have been made sad which I believe God would not have made sad. How often the
fervent nature condemns the shy and silent with "Out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh." If the latter cannot speak, it is assumed, it is
because it cannot feel, or is only half-hearted; if love be in your heart, it
must come out of your lips: Christ says so! But does Christ say so? Let the
context be carefully examined, and it will be found that Christ says, not that
whatever is felt in the heart will come out of the mouth—but that whatever does
come out of the mouth must first have originated in the heart. I venture to
submit that this passage does not deal with the counter-proposition at all: and
that between the two there is as much difference as between saying all one
thinks, and meaning all one says. As she stood there by the river, listening to
the soft lapping of the water against the bank, Agnes felt as though she could
have given any thing to comfort that desolate man. Yet what could she say that
might comfort him? To quote God’s Word, for a woman, and especially in English,
would put herself in jeopardy: but she did not mind that, if it would do him any
good. Agnes did not realise that the Duke had been educated by a Lollard
stepmother, herself the daughter of a martyr of Jesus Christ. "’_Youre liif is
hidde with Crist in God_.’"  She made the quotation very tremblingly. Amazed
indeed she was at the style of its reception. The Duke’s hand fell softly on her
head as if in blessing, and—most astonishing of all—the quotation went on.
"’_For whanne Crist schal apere youre liif, thanne also ye schuln apere with him
in glorie...  Where is not male and female, ... larlarus and scita, bonde man
and fre man; but alle thingis and in alle thingis Crist_.’  I thank you,
heartily, my good maid. Aye, and methinks it runneth next,—’_As the Lord forgaf
to you, so also ye_.’  It is well. I count that shall last us both for this
little while. ’_Alle thingis and in alle thingis, Crist_.’"

Agnes was silent. She had taken a text: if her hearer would preach the sermon to
himself, it was far better than any comment on her part. "I scarce looked to
find one of that sort in Coldharbour now," said the Duke, with a smile which
made him but look the sadder. "But you must have a care, Mistress Agnes. We be
no longer under King Henry, that would not see a Christian man nor woman ill-
usen. Yet I would fain, whenso you find safe chance, that you should speak such
words to my little maid as you have spoken to me to-night. She cannot remember
her grandmother, that should have learned them to her, as she did to me." "My
gracious Lord, the Lady Anne wist thereof far more and better than I." The light
came to the Duke’s eyes, for the first time that sorrowful night. "Then we shall
meet again," he said. "Not long—no, not long! God keep you, Mistress Agnes, and
give you, for this little while,—give all of us—to have, ’_alle thingis and in
alle thingis, Crist_.’"

Once more, light and warm, his hand rested on her head: and the next moment he
was gone. She stood still and silent, with the feeling of that hand upon her
head—of that last word in her ear. It was as if Christ Himself had blessed her.
A sense of deep peace sank into Agnes Marston’s heart. The little while to be
spent on this side the cold river seemed so very little, and the golden gates of
Paradise so very near. She would never forget those words—never forget that
tone—"_alle thingis, and in alle thingis, Crist_." "Agnes! Agnes Marston! Where
art, hussy? Dost look for thy betters to waste their breath a-bawling of thee?
Art any better than thou shouldst be, a-chattering to strange men at postern
doors? Come in this minute, for shame of thy face, and tell me who is thy
gallant. Some penny-go-quick pot-loving companion, I’ll be bound. Come hither, I
say!" Oh, what a revulsion it was! But Agnes did not hesitate a moment. Her
conscience was clean as snow. She ran up the spiral staircase, and found herself
in the awful, because angry, presence of the Mistress of the Household, Lady
Elizabeth Darcy. "Come up to the light, and let me look at thee!" Agnes stood
the scrutiny without flinching. "Now then—with whom wert thou talking yonder?"
"Please it you, Madam, with a gentleman whose daughter is a maid of my
cognisance, and he, knowing the same, did desire to have some speech of me
touching her." "Yonder’s a jolly hearing! Get thy tale up better another time.
Wherefore should such meet thee after dark, behind posterns? He should have come
up to the hall, and desired speech of thee like an honest man. Now then, tell me
another story, and let it be the true one, this time." "Madam, I have spoken
truth. An’ I tell your Ladyship any other tale, it must needs be false." The two
pairs of eyes met, and the Lady Elizabeth’s fell first. "Holy Mary! but thou art
a brazen piece of goods as ever I saw! Come with me to thy Lady. She must be
told of this." Agnes followed silently. Wild horses should not drag that secret
from her keeping. The Duchess of Exeter—who had just divorced her own husband in
order to marry another man—was inexpressibly horrified at the moral turpitude of
Agnes Marston. Was she to allow of such scandals in her house? No, indeed! The
only atonement that Agnes could make was to declare then and there the name and
business of her companion. The Duchess was doubtful whether, after any
disclosures or expressions of penitence, she would be justified in overlooking
the matter. Agnes kept silence. She had repeated her explanation, and she held
to it as the simple truth: but not another word would she utter. "Wilt not even
say thou art sorry?" demanded Lady Darcy, who, now that the Duchess had taken up
the matter so warmly, was herself cooling down. Sorry! would she ever be sorry,
all her life long, for what had passed in those few minutes? "No, Madam. I am
not sorry." "Nor ashamed?" "Nor ashamed, in any wise." And Agnes lifted her
clear, honest eyes to her examiners. "Verily, this passes!" cried the Duchess.
"Dost look to tarry any longer in mine house, thou good-for-nought?" "At your
pleasure, Madam." "Then thou mayest write to my Lord Marnell, and tell him I
send him back a thing that is no better than she should be." Agnes, whose sense
of the ludicrous was very delicate, thought she would be quite safe in making
that report. "I’ll have thy sister in the stead of thee. She is a well-looking
maid enough, and of good conditions. I saw her this last week, when she that was
Queen Margaret was sent from Windsor to Wallingford." Agnes felt quietly amused.
It was Frideswide who had been the Duke’s first friend, not she. He would be no
worse by the exchange—whatever she might be. "Dost hear, hussy?" "Aye, Madam,
an’t like you." "Then begone!" And so—for Agnes Marston—closed the Lady Anne’s
wedding-day. She went quietly enough upstairs to the room shared by the
chamberers of the Duchess. For a moment she stopped at the summit, with her hand
on the banister. A sharp pain was shooting through her heart, but whence and
what it was she did not know herself. "What does it matter?" she said to
herself, looking out of the window at the starry night. "Only such a little
while! ’_Alle thingis, and in alle thingis, Crist!_’"

*CHAPTER IX. *

*DRAWING NEARER. *

"A bowing, burdened head,       That only asks to rest     Unquestioning, upon
A loving breast." The Duchess carried her point, and packed off Agnes in
disgrace within a week of the offence. She had the grace to see that there was
some escort for the friendless girl on her journey home. A small party of
travellers were on their way to the north—consisting of three gentlemen, one of
whom was accompanied by his wife and daughters. Agnes received a frigid
intimation that she was to make one of this party, and must be ready to start in
four days. Mr. Banaster, the married gentleman, lived in Lancashire, whither he
was returning, and would take charge of Agnes as far as Sheffield, where, if her
friends did not meet her, she must be content to go forward to York with the two
younger men whose destination it was. Agnes inwardly hoped that somebody would
meet her: but it was a difficult matter to let them know. She wrote to her
father, and contrived to send the letter by a post who was going to York with
letters from the Duke of Gloucester: but whether it would reach Lovell Tower
before herself was an open question. She humbly requested to know the names of
the other gentlemen, in a faint hope that they might possibly be acquaintances.
Lady Darcy informed her, in her coldest manner, that one of them was a Yorkshire
squire, Master Rotherham by name: as for the other, his name was Combe, and
whence he might come, she neither knew nor cared. Wherein my Lady Darcy was
guilty of saying the thing that is not, since she was perfectly well aware that
Master John Combe was of old time Queen Marguerite’s henchman, and she had,
under different circumstances, appeared to be very good friends with him. Both
names were strange to Agnes. She had one more request to make—for an interview
with Frideswide ere she set out. Lady Darcy hesitated, but finally granted the
request, though she made a great favour of doing so. During the last few months,
Frideswide’s movements had been regulated by political necessities. Thirty-seven
days was the limit beyond which no person could claim the privilege of sanctuary
at the cost of the house: and to reside in sanctuary at a man’s own expense was
a ruinous proceeding. It was therefore impossible to Frideswide to remain with
the Countess of Warwick: and she had no money to provide for herself; yet, being
unindicted, she was not a prisoner, and could not expect to be kept at the royal
cost. In these uncomfortable circumstances, she had availed herself of an
opportunity which few girls would have accepted. A small, though extremely
diminished suite had to be provided for the imprisoned Queen, and Frideswide had
thankfully received permission to share her captivity. A fervent Lancastrian,
she reverenced Marguerite from the core of her heart. Beyond the one change to
her own home, any change from that service would be unwelcome. The unwelcome
change was at hand. The Duchess of Exeter had petitioned her brother for
Frideswide Marston, and no choice was allowed the latter. One evening in
January, Queen Marguerite’s gaoler entered her bower, as he politely termed
it—she called it her dungeon—in Wallingford Castle. As gaolers went in those
days, Sir Thomas Thwaytes was fairly civil to his illustrious captive. "Dame,"
said he, "please you, take your leave of Mistress Marston, whom it is His
Highness’ gracious pleasure to command otherwhere." Frideswide turned rather
pale, as was but natural. Her first idea was that the alteration had reference
to her mistress rather than herself. But Sir Thomas soon undeceived her. Her
sister was going home; and Frideswide was to take her place with my Lady of
Exeter. Every fibre of Frideswide’s heart and nerves revolted at the very name.
Take service under the woman who had ruined the life of that man with the soft
sad eyes, for whose miserable story her compassion had been intensely awakened!
But Frideswide had no choice. And then the thought flashed upon her that perhaps
she might serve him there. At least she could do what Agnes had done, and help
him, if he should seek it, to obtain private interviews with his daughter. Queen
Marguerite took an affectionate leave of her young attendant. She gave her a
token, or gift, in the form of a table-book—one of those little ivory books,
turning on a pivot, for memoranda, which have lasted in the same form for many a
century. This one was among the few relics of her lost estate, and was mounted
in gold, and set with turquoises. It was also fitted with a silver pen. [#]

[#] Silver pens are considerably more ancient than either steel or gold. The
next morning Frideswide left Wallingford, in charge of one Simon Quyxley, an
officer of the garrison, who was going on pilgrimage to Canterbury, and meant to
stay a few weeks with his friends in London on his way thither. He delivered
Frideswide at Coldharbour; and before she well set her foot inside the house,
she found herself in the arms of her sister Agnes. Fortunately for the sisters,
the Duchess was spending the evening at Court, and they were free to be alone
together if they chose. Agnes hurried Frideswide upstairs to the maidens’
chamber, which was at that moment empty, and each rapidly poured her story into
the ear of the other—a process which left Agnes comforted, and Frideswide
indignant. "Tarry here I must," said the latter: "but trust me, Annis, so far as
lieth in my good will, ’tis for his sake, not hers." "And thou wilt serve our
gracious Lord to thine uttermost, dear heart?" urged Agnes earnestly. "Trust me,
but I will!" was the reply. "And who be thy travelling fellows, sweeting?" Agnes
told her. The names of Messrs. Banaster and Rotherham were received without any
comment; but no sooner had she said, "Master Combe," than Frideswide’s eyes were
lifted with light in them, and a slight flush crept over her brow. "Master John
Combe—not he? He that was the Queen’s henchman?" There was no Queen but
Marguerite to the apprehension of Frideswide Marston. "Aye, the very same," said
Agnes. "Dost know him?" Frideswide’s hood wanted a good deal of settling just at
that moment. "Ay," said she, rather shortly. "Thou wilt not journey ill if
Master Combe look to thy comfort. And maybe it shall be none the worser for thee
if thou tell him thy name is Marston." Agnes quietly drew her own conclusions,
but she asked no questions. She found, moreover, during the journey, that Master
John Combe was undoubtedly an agreeable travelling companion, doing his utmost
to make others comfortable: and that when she had once informed him that she was
the sister of Frideswide Marston, he appeared to know as much as she did herself
about her home, her relatives, and all that concerned her. About Frideswide
herself he said very little: but Agnes soon perceived that to talk of her was
the surest means of engrossing Master Combe’s attention. Sheffield was reached
at last, and Agnes found to her regret that no one from Lovell Tower awaited
her. She went on to York with the two young gentlemen, with much less reluctance
than she had anticipated: for though she was indifferent to Master Rotherham,
she had come to have a very sisterly feeling towards John Combe. It was odd that
John Combe’s way from York should lie exactly past Lovell Tower: but of course,
very convenient for Agnes. Master Rotherham also offered to attend her thither;
but Agnes civilly declined his offer as giving him unnecessary trouble. It was
late on a Saturday evening in January that Agnes and John Combe reached Lovell
Tower at last. The family were seated in the hall, where a large fire of thick
oaken logs was blazing, and the men-servants were bringing in the boards and
trestles for rear-supper, the last meal of the day. Fixed tables in the centre
of a room were unknown to our medieval ancestors, though they were common enough
with the Romans, and even with the Anglo-Saxons. They had leaf-tables, attached
to the wall; and wealthy persons indulged in small round or square tables on
three feet: but to a much later period than this, the setting of tables for
meals included the erection of the table, a mere wide board set upon trestles.
We use phrases derived from this practice when we speak of setting a table, or
of an hospitable board. Over this was laid a fine damask tablecloth, and the
silver _nef_, or ship, was placed in the middle. This was a large salt-cellar,
used as the barometer of rank. The family and their guests sat above the salt;
the servants below it. Silver plates and cups were set for the former, wooden
trenchers and earthen mugs for the latter. To each person was given a knife and
spoon: forks were not invented except for spices, and were never used to eat
with. A clean damask napkin, and a basin of water, were carried round before and
after every meal: but as neither was changed in the process, the condition in
which both reached the lower end of the board is better left undescribed.
Fastidiousness was out of place in such circumstances, particularly when husband
and wife still ate from the same plate, and for a host to share his plate with
his guest was the highest honour he could do him. Yet our ancestors’ rules of
etiquette show that they were fastidious in their way. Ladies and gentlemen are
therein recommended not to wipe their fingers on the tablecloth, to refrain from
all attentions to nose and hair during meals, to lick their spoons clean before
putting them into the dish—special spoons for helping were never thought of—and
above all things, not to feed their dogs from the table. Saturday evening being
a vigil, the supper consisted of salt ling and haddock, baked eels, galantine,
eggs prepared in different ways, and various tarts and creams. Wassel bread was
set above the salt, maslin below. The Lady Idonia sat in a large carved chair
near the fire. Lord Marnell, who had only just entered, and had had a day’s hard
riding, had thrown himself on a settle near, with the air of a tired man who was
glad to come back to home comforts. The settle itself would have been hard
comfort, but a well-to-do house in those days never ran short of cushions, and
his Lordship lay on half a dozen. The Lady Margery was flitting about the table,
looking to the ways of her household, and Dorathie was extremely busy on a strip
of tapestry. The baked eels were just coming in at the door, when the clear
notes of a horn rang outside the gate. It was accompanied—as that sound always
was—by a nervous start from Idonia. Dorathie never could understand why her
grandmother always seemed alarmed when a horn sounded. She was too young to be
told that before she was born, two horns had so sounded, one of which had
brought to Idonia the news of her widowhood, and the other had heralded the
arrival of persecutors for the faith. For the momentary defection on her part
which followed the latter, Idonia’s pardon might be registered in Heaven, but
she had never forgiven herself. Was it any wonder if the sound of a horn brought
back to her shrinking heart both those awful memories? "Guests, I ween!" said
Lord Marnell, not altering his position on the settle, where he lay with both
arms thrown back and beneath his head. "Dear heart, who shall they be, trow?"
responded his wife. The slip of tapestry dropped from the fingers of Dorathie,
who had rushed to the door, and was peering through the crack to make such
discoveries as she could. "Doll! Dorathie! Doll, I say!" cried the scandalised
Lady Marnell to her curiosity-stricken heiress. "Come back this minute! Where be
thy manners?" Dorathie’s obedience, rather than her manners, produced a
reluctant retreat from the door. The gate was heard to open and shut, the
clatter of horses came into the paved court-yard, there was the sound of a
little bustle and several voices without, and then through the door one voice
that all recognised with exclamations of pleasure, the rather because it was one
of the last which they expected to hear. "Agnes, sweet heart!" "Annis, my dear
maid!" "O Annis, hast come back?—_hast_ come back!" Lord Marnell was up in an
instant, his wife warmly embracing her step-daughter, and Dorathie clinging to
her as though she had not seen her for a life-time. Agnes returned the greetings
as warmly as they were given, and when all the kisses and blessings were over,
presented John Combe. There was a cordial welcome for Queen Marguerite’s
henchman at Lovell Tower, and he was of course desired to remain there as long
as it suited his convenience. Any thing less would have been very rude in the
eyes of the fifteenth century. Agnes had a shrewd suspicion that Lovell Tower
was the real destination of the guest, and that before he left that place he
would find that a little private conversation with Lord Marnell was the thing
that suited his convenience. She was not mistaken. Before John Combe had stayed
a fortnight at Lovell Tower, Agnes and Dorathie were informed by their mother
that they were henceforward to regard that gentleman in the light of a brother-
in-law elect. Agnes received with a quiet smile the communication which she had
been expecting; Dorathie with ecstatic excitement an idea entirely new to her.
"But"—she suddenly exclaimed, ceasing her transports—"will Frid have to go away,
or stay away? Won’t she come home?" "She will come home first, surely," answered
her mother, "for she will be wed from hence: afterward, Master Combe hath some
desire to dwell in this vicinage, though if it shall be compassed I yet know
not." "Oh, how jolly should that be!" cried Dorathie, "to have Frid but a step
off, and run in and out!" Lady Margery laughed. "A good step, I take it, my
little maid. Howbeit, I trust thou mayest have thy wish." It was on that very
evening that Maurice Carew, who had been to York on business, came in with an
important piece of news. The Princess of Wales was found. Found, by the man whom
she most dreaded, in the guise of a cookmaid, at a "mean house" in the City of
London,—dragged out from her seclusion, and placed under the care of her uncle,
Archbishop Neville, with permission to hold intercourse with Queen
Marguerite,—the only kindness that could be done to that lonely, widowed, orphan
girl. Of all the quarrels that had ever taken place between Clarence and
Gloucester, the worst ensued upon this point. The royal family went to Shene on
the sixteenth of February "to pardon," but little pardon was in the hearts of
the brothers, who were quarrelling all the way. The King, with whom Gloucester
was always the favourite, tried to persuade Clarence to more amiability: but all
the concession that could be wrung from the latter was—

"He may well have my Lady my sister-in-law, but she and my wife shall part no
livelihood!" In other words, Clarence did not care how soon the Princess
married, so long as she remained a portionless bride, and the Warwick property
was left undivided to his children. To do Gloucester credit—the rather since
little credit can be done him—he does not seem to have been anxious about the
property at that time. It was Anne herself whom he wanted: and he was astute
enough to see that if he once got hold of her, the property could be agitated
for at leisure. Not many days after this news had been a nine days’ wonder, Lady
Darcy informed Frideswide that my Lady Anne Grey had petitioned her mother for
her, and she was to be transferred to her service. Frideswide was exceedingly
pleased, the rather because she could thus serve the Duke far better than at
Coldharbour. She had heard something of Lady Anne from Agnes: but she was hardly
prepared for the thin white face and burning eyes which struck to her heart when
she saw her new mistress. She might keep in her service as long as Lady Anne
should live, and not defer her wedding. The interview in the presence of the
Duchess was very short, and question and answer were brief on both sides. But
the engagement was effected, and Lord Marnell was fully satisfied with the
transfer. He was glad, he said, to win both his poor doves from the clutches of
that kite of a woman. Had Frideswide remained at Coldharbour, he would have
hastened her marriage in order to get her away. Now there was no need to do it.
The first night that Frideswide spent in her new home, she was required to
attend her young lady at her _coucher_. Mr. Grey was not at home; he rarely was
so. Noble ladies never had the privilege of a room to themselves in the Middle
Ages. When their husbands were away, and often when they were not, a female
attendant must occupy the pallet bed, which ran on castors underneath the state
bed, and was pulled out when required. Frideswide found herself appointed to the
pallet bed this first night—an unusual promotion, since it argued some amount of
attachment and confidence on the part of the mistress. The _coucher_ was very
silent, the only remarks made having reference to the business in hand. But when
Frideswide, having finished her duties, had hastily undressed and lain down, the
silence was broken. "Frideswide, art thou in Agnes’ secrets?" "That is somewhat
more than I can answer, my Lady. I wis a thing or twain of hers." "Did she ever
speak unto thee of—of my Lord my father?" "I think it was I that spake to her,"
answered Frideswide, softly. "Hast thou seen him?" The tone was painfully eager.
"My Lady, may I speak out?" "That is it I would have thee do." "Doth your
Ladyship mind a certain even in winter that his Lordship came to Coldharbour,
and, as I think, had speech of yourself?" "Mind it? Yes, and shall while my life
lasts!" "My Lady, his Lordship had ere that been tarrying with the Queen at
Harfleur, and he was pleased to require of me a letter to my sister the which
should serve him as a passport to your Ladyship’s presence." "He came hither by
thy means, Frideswide?" "Mine and hers, my Lady." "Which of you knows him
better?" "Methinks, I, by much, Madam." "Frideswide, art thou willing to be his
true friend and mine?" "Trust me, my Lady." "Which Rose dost thou wear?" A
delicate question to answer, when the questioner was a daughter of the House of
York! But Frideswide Marston never hesitated. "The Red, Madam, from my cradle;
and shall so do to my coffin." "So do I," said Lady Anne, quietly, "down in mine
heart, Frideswide. He wears it; and what he is, I am. Ah, would I could pass
further!—’Where thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge.’  I
had asked God no more. Yet at the least, his people can be my people, as his God
is my God. And may-be, when he dies, if not where, then may I die and be
buried." "My Lady, you are young to count on dying." "It seems long since I
counted on living," she said in a low voice. "Life is not worth much,
Frideswide." Frideswide knew too much to ask why. But she knew that for her,
under similar circumstances, life would have gone on; and she wondered whether
her physical nature were stronger than that of Lady Anne, or her moral nature
more blunt and hard. "I mind," said Lady Anne, in the same tone, "once hearing
my Lady of Clarence my aunt to say that none save weak folks brake their hearts.
I reckon I must be weak. For mine is broken. I misdoubt if it were ever
otherwise than weak and easily shattered. It has not taken much to break it.
Thou mayest despise me if thou wilt." "None less, Madam! It would be
impossible." "Would it?" she answered, rather wistfully. "Yet methinks thy
nature is far stronger than mine. The blows which have crushed me into a poor
handful of dust should have rebounded from thee with scarce a bruise. I can see
it in thy face; and thy sister is like thee." "It may be so, my Lady. But I take
it, He told us to pity the weak, who is a God so strong and patient, and who was
crucified through weakness for our sakes. Is it not in His strength we can do
all things?" "Dost thou know Him, Frideswide?" "Aye so, my Lady." "Then thou
wilt be a comfort to me—in what is coming. It will not be long, Frideswide. Dost
thou know that?" Frideswide’s voice was very low and tender as she said, "Ay, my
Lady. I think it will not be long." She had more hardihood than Agnes, and spoke
out her thoughts instead of feeling them in silence. "And I shall be glad," said
Lady Anne gently. "Only I hope my father may not be long after me. Though we
have met of late but so seldom, yet I know the world will seem darker and colder
to him when I am gone out of it. I am all he has save God; and he is all that I
have." Frideswide’s eyes were wet; but she made no reply. "I used to have a fair
dream once—too fair to be true. I reckoned that we might have dwelt together, he
and I, in some quiet cot in a green glade, where no strangers should come near
us, and none seek to take us from each other. But—it was not to be." "Not here,
Madam. Yet will it not be—hereafter?" "I feel as though I knew little of what
will be hereafter. It will be as God wills; and His will is good. I lack rest
sorely—so does my father: and we miss each other very, very much. I suppose our
Lord can give us what we need; and as to how, and when, and where—He will know.
We have only to wait. Only—I am so weary!" And she turned on her pillow with a
heavy sigh. Weary of life and all that was in it—and she only just eighteen!
Frideswide would have given much to comfort her: but she did not know what to
say. "Our Lord was weary Himself," she said at last. "Aye, and the memory should
rest me. But it doth not so. I seem to have sunk beneath all that—down into the
great depths where no words can reach me. Only His own voice, when He shall come
and lay His hand upon me, and say, ’Arise, and come away.’  I reckon I shall be
strong enough to rise up then. Now, I only want to lie and wait for it.
Frideswide, dost thou know what gladness feels like? It is so long sithence I
have felt it, that I can barely remember." "Yes, Madam, I know it well." "And I
do not, save in flashes," said Lady Anne again in that wistful tone. "I marvel
how it will come to me. I suppose it will come." She spoke as if she thought it
hardly possible. "Madam, saith not the Psalmist, ’Thou hast put gladness in mine
heart?’ Methinks that is God’s gift as much as grace or mercy." "Then I will ask
Him to put it there," she said, with that childlike simplicity which was a part
of her character. "Frideswide, methinks it shall be another way of saying to
Him, ’Lord, let me die!’"

And Frideswide knew it was so. "My maid," said the mistress after a moment’s
pause, "who was it led thee into the ways of God?" Frideswide could hardly tell.
It had always been so, as it seemed to her. She could barely remember her
mother; but first her aunt, and then her stepmother, and always her father, had
brought her up in the Lollard faith since her world began. But friends, after
all, however faithful and loving, can only lead us into the Court of Israel: the
Lord of the Temple must draw aside the veil, and admit His priests Himself into
the holy place. "I can tell thee who it was that led me," resumed Lady Anne,
"and let it cheer thee, my maid, to do God’s work on them that thou hast
opportunity to reach. It was one that I cannot in any wise remember—my Lady my
grandmother. She was sometime the Lady Anne de Montacute, a daughter of my Lord
of Salisbury that died for King Richard at Cirencester: and she bred up first my
father, and after, me, in that which she had learned from her father. I cannot
recall her face, essay it as I may: but her doctrine abides with me. ’Tis true,
I might have minded it less had not my father kept me thereto belike: for the
which reason, may-be, it hath alway seemed me that to love him and to love God
went together. They were diverse sides of the same medal. I might say that
either came of itself, as I learned the other. Once on a time I seemed to come
at God through him: and now—I can come at him only through God. And the day when
I shall have both, Frideswide, will be the day when I shall know what like it is
to feel glad. But, O my God, was there no other way to bring it?—was there no
other way!" "’There are delights in Thy right hand unto the end,’"[#] softly
quoted Frideswide. "And, dear my Lady, surely they will be the sweetest unto
them that had the fewest delights here below." [#] Psalm xvi. 10. The answer
came in another quotation from the same Book. "’I am poor and needy; the Lord is
mine help. My helper and my deliverer art Thou: tarry not, O my God!’"[#]

[#] Psalm xi. 17. *CHAPTER X. *

*AT THE PARCHMENT-MAKER’S. *

"My life hath been a search for Thee,       ’Mid thorns left red with Thy dear
blood;     In many a dark Gethsemane       I seemed to stand where Thou hadst
stood:     And, scorned in this world’s judgment-place,     At times, through
tears, to catch Thy face." —ROBERT, EARL LYTTON. The shadow was falling very low
on the sun-dial in a small back yard looking into the fields to the north of
Chicken Lane, which crossed the Fleet River, one end abutting upon Lither Lane
(running northwards from Holborn) and the other entering Smithfield at its
north-western corner. Over the sundial for a moment bent a youth of some twenty
years or more, clad in a buff jerkin and working apron. His face was remarkable
for the extremely good-humoured expression of the lips, and for the perfect
frankness of the clear, honest eyes. Having satisfied himself as to the time of
day, he re-entered the house by the back-door, which led him into a low, narrow
room, fitted with a long table and sundry benches. Here half-a-dozen men and
boys were at work, some engaged in preparing skins for use by scraping off the
hair, some arrived at the further stages of straining or bleaching, some at the
concluding point of cutting the parallelograms of parchment, the manufacture of
which was manifestly their trade. "Put up work, lads’" said the young man, as he
came in, in a tone which showed him, notwithstanding his youth, to be the
master. "The ’prentice-lads may be gone. I have more ado yet with Dick and
Robin." He was obeyed with that alacrity which usually finds its way into the
cessation of work more readily than into its commencement, and one of the men,
with the three apprentices, shouldered their tools and departed, exchanging "God
be wi’ you!" with the rest. When they were gone, and the two men remaining had
gathered their tools into baskets, one of them said,—

"Monition to-night, Master?" "Even so, Dick. Come you both into the kitchen."
The two men nodded, and followed their master into a small but cheerful kitchen,
where a large fire blazed in the wide chimney. In a wooden chair in the chimney
corner, propped up by cushions, sat a silver-haired old woman, and a girl in the
chimney corner at work, while an elder girl and a middle-aged woman were
arranging forms as though some gathering of persons was expected. "Time, Jack?"
said the old woman. "Aye so, Mother," returned he cheerily, setting to work with
the forms. He called her mother, for none other had he ever known: but the old
woman was really the grandmother of the young man and the girls. The middle-aged
woman was their one servant. "There!" said Jack at length, glancing over the
forms when the arrangement was finished. "Me reckoneth those shall be so many as
we are like to have need." "Who be a-coming, Jack?" "No more than custom is,
Mother—without Will Sterys bring yon fri