THE                               MISSIONARY:

AN                              Indian Tale. BY
MISS OWENSON. WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR. IN THREE VOLUMES. _FOURTH EDITION._

VOL. II. LONDON:                      PRINTED FOR J. J. STOCKDALE,
NO. 41, PALL MALL. 1811. THE MISSIONARY, &c.

CHAPTER VIII. It was the season of visitation of the Guru of Cashmire to his
granddaughter. The Missionary beheld him with his train approach her abode of
peace, and felt the necessity of absenting himself from the consecrated grove,
where he might risk a discovery of his intentions unfavourable to their success.
He knew that the conversion of the Brachmachira was only to be effected by the
frequent habit of seeing and conversing with her, and that a discovery of their
interviews would be equally fatal to both. Yet he submitted to the necessity
which separated them, with an impatience, new to a mind, whose firm tenour was,
hitherto, equal to stand the shock of the severest disappointment. Still did his
steps involuntarily bend to the skirts of the grove, and still did he return
sad, without any immediate cause of sorrow, and disappointed, without any
previous expectation. To contemplate the frailty, to witness the errors of the
species to which we belong, is to mortify that self-love, which is inherent in
our natures; yet to be dissatisfied with others, is to be convinced of our own
superiority. It is to triumph, while we condemn--it is to pity, while we
sympathize. But, when we become dissatisfied with ourselves; when a proud
consciousness of former strength unites itself with a sense of existing
weakness; when the heart has no feeling to turn to for solace; when the mind has
no principle to resort to for support; when suffering is unalleviated by self-
esteem, and no feeling of internal approbation soothes the irritation of the
discontented spirit; then all is hopeless, cold, and gloomy, and misery becomes
aggravated by the necessity which our pride dictates, of concealing it almost
from ourselves. Days listlessly passed, duties neglected, energies subdued, zeal
weakened; these were circumstances in the life of the apostolic Nuncio, whose
effects he rather felt than understood. He was stunned by the revolution which
had taken place in his mind and feeling, by the novelty of the images which
occupied his fancy, by the association of ideas which linked themselves in his
mind. He would not submit to the analysis of his feelings, and he was determined
to conquer, without understanding their nature or tendency. Entombed and chained
within the most remote depths of his heart, he was deaf to their murmurs, and
resisted their pleadings, with all the despotism of a great and lofty mind,
created equally to command others and itself. With the dawn, therefore, of the
morning, he issued from his cave, intending to proceed to Sirinagur, determined
no longer to confine his views to the conversion of the solitary infidel; but to
change, at once, the scene and object, which had lately engrossed all the powers
of his being, and to bestow upon a multitude, those sacred exertions, which he
had, of late, wholly confined to an individual. His route to Sirinagur lay near
the dwelling of the Priestess. He perceived, at a considerable distance, the
train of the Guru returning to his college; Luxima, therefore, was again
mistress of her own delicious solitude. The impulse of the man was to return to
the grotto, but the decision of the Priest was to proceed, to effect his
original intention. As he advanced, the glittering shafts of Luxima’s verandahs
met his eye, and he abruptly found himself under the cannella-alba tree, beneath
whose shade he had last beheld her. He paused, as he believed, to contemplate
its luxuriancy and its beauty, which had before escaped his observation. He
admired its majestic height, crowned by branches, which drooped with their own
abundance, and hung in fantastic wreaths of green and brilliant foliage,
mingling with their verdure, blossoms of purple and scarlet, and berries bright
and richly clustered. But an admiration so coldly directed, was succeeded by a
feeling of amazement and delight, when he observed the date of the day of his
last interview with Luxima carved on its bark; when he observed, hanging near
it, a wreath of the may-hya, whose snowy blossoms breathe no fragrance, and to
which an oly-leaf was attached, bearing the following inscription from the
Persian of Saddi: “The rose withers, when she no longer hears the song of the
nightingale.”

The lovely elegance of mind, which thus so delicately conveyed its secret
feeling, received a tribute, which the votarist trembled as he presented; and
pure and holy lips, which had hitherto only pressed the saintly shrine, or
consecrated relic, now sealed a kiss, no longer cold, upon an object devotion
had not sanctified. But the chill hand of religion checked the human feeling as
it rose; and the blood ran coldly back to the heart, from which, a moment
before, it had been impelled, with a force and violence he shuddered to
recollect. Suddenly assuming a look of severity, as if even to awe, or to
deceive himself, he hurried on, nor once turned his eye towards the sunny
heights which Luxima’s pavilion crowned. He now proceeded through the rocky
defile, which formed the mouth of the valley, and advanced into an avenue, which
extended for a league, and led to various towns, and different pagodas. This
avenue, grand and extensive as it was, was yet composed of a single tree; but it
was the banyan-tree, the mighty monarch of Eastern forests; at once the most
stupendous and most beautiful production of the vegetable world. The symbol of
eternity, from its perpetual verdure and perpetual spring, independent of
revolving seasons, and defying the decay of time, it stands alone and bold,
reproducing its own existence, and multiplying its own form, fresh and unfaded
amidst the endless generation it propagates; while every branch, as emulous of
the parent greatness, throws out its fibrous roots, and, fastening in the earth,
becomes independent, without being disunited from the ancient and original stem.
Thus, in various directions, proceeds the living arcade, whose great and
splendid order the Architect of the universe himself designed; while above the
leafy canopy descend festoons of sprays and fibres, which, progressively
maturing, branch off in lighter arches, extending the growing fabric from season
to season, and supplying, at once, shade, fruit, and odour, sometimes to mighty
legions, encamped beneath its arms; sometimes to pilgrim troops, who make its
shade the temple of their worship, and celebrate, beneath its gigantic foliage,
their holy festivals and mystic rites. This tree, which belongs alone to those
mighty regions, where God created man, and man beheld his Creator, excited a
powerful emotion in the bosom of the Missionary as he gazed on it. It was
through the arcades of the wondrous banyan, that a scene finely appropriate
struck his view--an Eastern armament in motion, descending the brow of one of
the majestic mountains of Sirinagur: the arms of the troops glittering to the
sun-beam, flashed like lightning through the dark shade of the intervening
woods, while, in their approach, were more visibly seen, elephants surmounted
with towers; camels, bearing on their arched necks the gaudy trappings of war;
the crescent of Mahomet beaming on the standard of the Mogul legions; and bright
spears, and feathery arrows, distinguishing the corps of Hindu native troops;
the van breaking from the line to guard the passes, and detachments hanging back
in the rear to protect the equipage; while the main body, as if by an electric
impulse, halted, as it gradually reached the valley where it was to encamp. This
spectacle, so grand, so new, and so imposing, struck on the governing faculty of
the Missionary’s character--his strong and powerful imagination. He approached
with rapid steps the spot where the troops had halted; he observed the
commander-in-chief descend from a Tartar horse; he was distinguished by the
imperial turban of the Mogul princes, but still more by the youthful majesty of
his look, and by the velocity of his movements. Darting from rank to rank, he
appeared like a flashing beam of light, while his deep voice, as it pronounced
the word of command, was re-echoed from hill to hill with endless vibration.
Already a camp arose, as if by magic, among the luxuriant shrubs of the glen.
The white flags of the royal pavilion waved over a cascade of living water, and
tents of snowy whiteness, in various lines, intersected each other amidst the
rich shades of the mango and cocoa-tree; the thirsty elephants, divested of
their ponderous loads, steeped their trunks in the fountains; and the weary
camel reposed his limbs on banks of odorous grasses. All now breathed shade,
refreshment, and repose, after heat, fatigue, and action. Faquirs, and pilgrims,
and jugglers, and dancers, were seen mingling among the disarmed troops; and the
roll of drums, the tinkling of bells, the hum of men, and noise of cattle, with
the deep tone of the Tublea, and the shrill blast of the war-horn, bestowed
appropriate sounds upon the magic scene. As the Missionary gazed on the animated
spectacle, a straggler from the camp approached to gather fruit from the tree
under which he stood, and the Missionary inquired if the troops he beheld were
those of Aurengzebe? “No,” replied the soldier; “we do not fight under the
banners of an usurper, and a fratricide; we are the troops of his eldest
brother, and rightful sovereign, Daara, whom we are going to join at Lahore, led
on by his gallant son, the ‘lion of war,’ Solyman Sheko. Harassed by fatigue,
and worn out by want and heat, after crossing the wild and savage mountains of
Sirinagur, Solyman has obtained the protection of the Rajah of Cashmire, who
permits him to encamp his troops in yonder glen, until he receives intelligence
from the Emperor, his father, whose fate is at present doubtful[1].”

The soldier, having then filled his turban with fruit, returned to his camp. He
who truly loves, will still seek, or find, a reference, in every object, to the
state and nature of his own feelings; and that the fate of a mighty empire
should be connected with the secret emotions of a solitary heart, and that “the
pomp and circumstance of war” should associate itself with the hopes and fears,
with the happiness and misery of a religious recluse living in remote wilds,
devoted to the service of Heaven, and lost to all the passions of the world, was
an event at once incredible--and true! A new sense of suffering, a new feeling
of anxiety, had seized the Missionary, when he understood the gallant son of
Daara, the idol of the empire, had come to fix himself in the vicinage of the
consecrated groves of the Cashmirian Priestess. He knew that, in India, the
person of a woman was deemed so sacred, that, even in all the tumult of warfare,
the sex was equally respected by the conqueror and the conquered; but he also
knew in what extraordinary estimation the beauty of the Cashmirian women was
held by the Mogul princes; and though Luxima was guarded equally by her sacred
character and holy vows, yet Solyman was a hero and a prince! and the fame of
her charms might meet his ear, and the lonely solitude of her residence lure his
steps. This idea grew so powerfully on his imagination, that he already believed
some rude straggler from the camp might have violated, by his presence, the
consecrated groves of her devotion, and, unable to dismiss the thought, he
hurried back, forgetful of his intention to visit Sirinagur, and believing that
his presence only could afford safeguard and protection to her, who, but a short
time back, shrunk in horror from his approach. So slow and thoughtful had been
his movements, and so long had he suffered himself to be attracted by a
spectacle so novel as the one he had lately contemplated, that, notwithstanding
the rapidity of his return, it was evening when he reached the sacred grove; he
advanced within view of the verandah, he darted like lightning through every
alley or deep-entangled glen; but no unhallowed footstep disturbed the silence,
which was only animated by the sweet, wild chirp of the mayana; no human form,
save his own, peopled the lovely solitude; all breathed of peace, and of repose.
In the clear blue vault of heaven the moon had risen with a bright and radiant
lustre, known only in those pure regions, where clouds are deemed phenomena. The
Missionary paused for a moment to gaze on Luxima’s verandah, and thought that,
haply, even then, with that strange mixture of natural faith and idolatrous
superstition, which distinguished the character of her devotion, she was
worshipping, at the shrine of Camdeo, in the almost inspired language of
religious sublimity. This thought disturbed him much; and he asked himself what
sacrifice he would not make, to behold that pure but wandering soul, imbued with
the spirit of Christian truth; but what sacrifice on earth was reserved for him
to make, who had no earthly enjoyment to relinquish? “Yes,” he exclaimed, “there
is yet one: to relinquish, for ever, all communion with Luxima!” As this thought
escaped his mind, he shuddered: had she then become so necessary to his
existence, that to relinquish her society, would be deemed a sacrifice? He
dismissed the terrific idea, and hurried from a place where all breathed of her,
whom he endeavoured to banish from his recollection. As he approached his cave,
he was struck by the singular spectacle it exhibited: a fracture in the central
part of the roof admitted the light of the moon, which rose immediately above
it; and its cloudless rays, concentrated as to a focus, within the narrow limits
of the grotto, shone with a dazzling lustre, which was increased and reflected
by the pendent spars, and surrounding congelations; while a fine relief was
afforded by the more remote cavities of the grotto, and the deep shadow of the
œcynum, whose dusky flowers and mourning leaves drooped round its entrance. But
it was on the altar, from its peculiar position, that the beams fell with
brightest lustre; and the Missionary, as he approached, thought that he beheld
on its rude steps, a vision brighter than his holiest trance had e’er been
blessed with; for nothing human ever looked so fair, so motionless, or so
seraphic. His eye was dazzled; his imagination was bewildered; he invoked his
patron saint, and crossed himself; he approached, and gazed, and yet he doubted;
but it was no spirit of an higher sphere; no bright creation of religious
ecstacy:--it was Luxima! it was the pagan! seated on the steps of the Christian
altar; her brow shaded by her veil; her hands clasped upon the Bible which lay
open on her knee, and a faint glory playing round her head, reflected from the
golden crucifix suspended above it. She slept; but yet so young was her repose,
so much it seemed the stealing dawn of doubtful slumber, that her humid eyes
still glistened beneath the deep shadow of her scarce-closed lashes: the hue of
light which fell upon her features, was blue and faint; and the air diffused
around her figure, harmonized with the soft and solemn character of the
moonlight cave. The Monk stood gazing, every sense bound up in one; his soul was
in his glance, and his look was such as beams in the eye when it snatches its
last look from the object dearest to the doting heart, till an involuntary sigh,
as it burst from his lips, chased by its echo, the soft and stealing sleep of
Luxima. She started, and looked round her, as if almost doubtful of her
identity. She beheld the Missionary standing near her, and arose in confusion,
yet with a confusion tinctured by pleasurable surprise. “Luxima!” he exclaimed,
in a voice full of softness, and for the first time addressing her by her name.
“Father!” she timidly returned, casting down her eyes; then, after a short but
touching pause, she added, “Thou wonderest much to see me here, at such an hour
as this!”

“Much,” he returned: “but, dearest daughter, seeing thee as I have seen thee, I
rejoice much more.”

“Many days,” she said, in a low voice, “many days have fled since I beheld thee;
and I prophesied, from the vision of my last night’s dream, that thy wound would
gangrene, were it not speedily touched by the three sacrificial threads of a
Brahmin; therefore came I hither to seek thee, and brought with me thy Christian
Shaster, but I found thee not: thinking thou wast performing poojah, near some
sacred tank, I sat me down upon thy altar steps, to wait thy coming, and to read
thy Shaster; till weariness, the darkness, and the silence of the place, stole
upon my senses, the doubtful slumber in which thou didst find me wrapt.”

“And dost thou regret,” said the Missionary, with a pensive smile, “that the
spirit of thy prophecy is false? Or dost thou rejoice, that my wound, which
awakened thy anxiety, is healed?” Luxima made no reply--the feeling of the
woman, and the pride of the Prophetess, seemed to struggle in her bosom; yet a
smile from lips, which on _her_ had never smiled before, seemed to excite some
emotion in her countenance. And after a short pause, she arose, and presenting
him the Scriptures, said, “Christian, take back thy Shaster, for it should
belong to thee alone. ’Tis a wondrous book! and full of holy love; worthy to be
ranked with the sacred _Veidam_, which the great Spirit presented to Brahma to
promote the happiness and wisdom of his creatures.” The Missionary had not yet
recovered from the confusion into which the unexpected appearance of Luxima, in
his grotto, had thrown him; he was, therefore, but ill prepared to address her
on a subject so awfully interesting, as that to which her simple, but
sacrilegious commentary, led. He stood, for a moment, confounded; but, observing
that Luxima was about to depart, he said, “Thou camest hither to seek and to do
me a kindness, and yet my presence banishes thee: at least, suffer me to give
thee my protection on thy return.” As he spoke, they left the grotto together;
and, after a long silence, during which, both seemed engaged with their own
thoughts, the Missionary said, “Thou hast observed truly, that the inspired work
I have put into thy hands is full of holy love; for the Christian doctrine is
the doctrine of the heart, and, true to all its purest feelings, is full of that
tender-loving mercy, which blends and unites the various selfish interests of
mankind, in one great sentiment of brotherly affection and religious love!”

“Such,” said Luxima, with enthusiasm, “is that doctrine of mystic love, by which
our true religion unites its followers to each other, and to the Source of all
good; for we cannot cling to the hope of infinite felicity, without rejoicing in
the first daughter of love to God, which is charity towards man. Even here,” she
continued, raising her eyes in transport, “in a dark forlorn state of separation
from our beloved, we live solely in him, in contemplating the moment when we
shall be reunited to him in endless beatitude!”

“Luxima! Luxima!” exclaimed the Missionary, with emotion, “this rhapsody,
glowing and tender as it is, is not the language of religion, but the eloquence
of an ardent enthusiasm; it bears not the pure and sacred stamp of holy truth,
but the gloss and colouring of human feeling. O my daughter! true religion, pure
and simple as it is, is yet awful and sublime--to be approached with fear and
trembling, and to be cultivated, not in fanciful and tender intimacy, but in
spirit and in truth; by sacrifices of the earthly passions, and the human
feeling; by tears which sue for mercy, and by sufferings which obtain it.” As he
spoke, his voice rose; his agitation increased. Luxima looked timidly in his
eyes, and sighed profoundly: the severity of his manner awed her gentle nature;
the rigid doctrines he preached, subdued her enthusiasm. She was silent: and the
Monk, touched by her softness and trembling, lest, in scaring her imagination or
wounding her feelings, he might counteract the effects he had already, and with
such difficulty, produced; or, by personally estranging her from himself, loosen
those fragile ties which were slowly drawing her to Heaven; he addressed her in
a softened and a tender voice: “Luxima, forgive me! if to thy gentle nature, the
manners of a man, unused to any intercourse with thy sex, and wholly devoted to
the cause for which he sacrifices every selfish feeling; if, my daughter, I say,
they appear cold, rigid, and severe; judge not of the _motive_, by the _manner_;
nor think that aught, but the most powerful interest in thy temporal and eternal
welfare, could move him to a zeal so ardent, as he has now betrayed. Forgive
him, then, who, to recall thy wandering mind to truth, would risk a thousand
lives. Forgive him, whose thoughts, and hopes, and views, are now, all, all
engrossed by thee; who makes no prayer to Heaven, which calls not blessing on
thy head; whose life is scarcely more than one long thought of Luxima!” The
Missionary stopt, abruptly: never had his zeal for conversion led him before to
such excess of enthusiasm, as that he now betrayed; while Luxima, touched and
animated by a display of tender and ardent feeling, so sympathetic to her own,
exclaimed, with softness and with energy, “O father, thus I also feel towards
thee; and yet, to see thee prostrate at the shrine of Brahma, _I_ would not see
thee changed from what thou art--for thou belongest to thy sublime and pure
religion; and thy religion to thee, who art thyself so noble and so true, that,
much as I do stand in awe of thee, yet more do I delight to hear, and to behold
thee, than any earthly good beside!”

The Missionary pressed his hand to his forehead as she spoke, and drew his cowl
over his face. He returned no answer, to a speech, every word of which had
reached his inmost heart. Thoughts of a various nature crossed each other in his
mind; and those he endeavoured to suppress, were still more dominant than those
he sought to encourage. At last a glimmering light fell from the summit of the
mound which was crowned by Luxima’s pavilion; and denoted that the moment of
separation was near. To conceal from Luxima, that Solyman and his army were
encamped in her neighbourhood--and yet to warn her of the danger of wandering
alone in the consecrated shades of her dwelling; were points, in his opinion,
necessary, but difficult, to reconcile. He, therefore, slightly observed, that,
as the scattered troops of Daara were proceeding through Cashmire to Lahore, he
would, in future, become the guardian of her wanderings, and hover round her
path, at sunset, until the absence of the intruders should banish all
apprehension of intrusion. Luxima replied to him only by a sigh half suppressed,
and by a look, timid, tender, and doubtful; in which a lingering prejudice,
mingled with a growing confidence, and feeling, and opinion, fading into each
other, still seemed faintly opposed. She half-extended to him a hand which
instinctively recoiled from the touch of his; and when he _almost_ pressed it,
trembled, and hastily withdrew. Hilarion, as he wandered back, alone, to his
grotto, recalled his last conversation with Luxima; and gave himself up to a
train of reflection, new as the feelings by which it was inspired. Hitherto he
had considered pleasure and sin as inseparably connected, since, to suffer and
to resist, was the natural destiny of man: but the Indian Priestess, so pure,
though mistaken in her piety; so innocent, and yet so pleasurable in her life;
so wholly devoted to Heaven, yet so enjoying upon earth, convinced him that his
doctrine was too exclusive; and that there were, in this world, sources of
blameless pleasure, which it were, perhaps, more culpable to neglect than to
embrace. “It is impious,” he said, “to suppose that God created man to taste
bitterness only; it is also folly; since, formed as we are, the existence of
evil presupposes that of good: for the suffering we endure is but the loss of
happiness we have enjoyed, or the privation of that we sigh for: and, though the
pride of human virtue may resist the conviction, yet the energy of intellect,
the fortitude of virtue, or the zeal of faith, can have no value in our eyes,
but as they lead to the happiness of others, or to our own. The object, even of
religion itself, points out to us, a good to be attained, and an evil to be
avoided; it prescribes to us as the end of our actions, eternal felicity; nor
can a rational being be supposed to act voluntarily, but with a view to his own
immediate or distant happiness. That good can indeed alone be termed happiness,
which is the most lasting, the most pure; and is not that ‘the good which faith
preferred?’” At this conclusion he sighed profoundly, and added, “Providence has
indeed also placed within our reach, many lesser intermediate enjoyments, and
endowed us with strong and almost indestructible propensities to obtain them;
but are they intended as objects of our pursuit and acquirement, or as tests by
which our imperfect and frail natures are to be tried, purified, and
strengthened? Alas! it is instinct to desire; it is reason to _resist_! The
struggle is sometimes too much for the imperfection of humanity. Man, to be
greatly good, must be supremely miserable; man, to secure his future happiness,
must sustain his existing evil; and, to enjoy the felicity of the world to come,
he must trample beneath his feet the pleasures of that which is.” It was thus
that his new mode of feeling was still opposed by his ancient habit of thinking;
and that a mind, struggling between a natural bias and a religious principle of
resistance, between a passionate sentiment and an habitual self-command, became
a scene of conflict and agitation. His restless days passed slowly away, in
endless cogitations, equally unproductive of any influence upon his feelings or
his life. But when evening came, in all the mildness of her softened glories,
peace and joy came with her; for then the form of his Neophyte rose upon his
view: her smile of languid pleasure met his eye, her accent of tender softness
sighed upon his ear: sometimes moving beside him, sometimes seated at his feet--
he spoke, and she listened--he looked on her, and she believed: while he
trembled from a twofold cause--to observe, that her mind seemed more engaged
with the object who spoke, than with the subject discussed; and that she too
frequently appeared to attend to the doctrine, for the sake of him only who
preached it. But if in one hour her pure soul expanded to the reception of
truth; in the next, it gave up its faculties to a superstition the most
idolatrous: if now she pressed to her vestal lips the consecrated beads of the
Christian rosary--again she knelt at the shrine of her tutelar idol: when her
spiritual guide, affecting a severity foreign to his feelings, reproved the
inconsistency of her principles, exposed the folly and incongruity of a faith so
vacillating, and urged her openly to embrace, and publicly to profess the
Christian doctrine, she fell at his feet--she trembled--she wept. The feelings
of the woman, and the prejudices of the idolatress, equally at variance in her
tender and erring mind; fearing equally to banish from her sight the preacher,
or to embrace the tenets he proposed to her belief; she said, “It were better to
die, than to live under the curse of my nation; it were better to suffer the
tortures of Narekah[2], than on earth to _lose cast_, and become a wretched
Chancalas!” As she pronounced these words, so dreadful to an Indian ear, her
whole frame became convulsed and agitated. And the Missionary, endeavouring to
sooth the emotions he had excited, sought only to recall that mild and melting
loveliness of look and air, his admonitions had chased away, or his severity
discomposed; while, frequently, to vary the tone of their intercourse, and to
give it a home-felt attraction in the eyes of his Neophyte, he led her to speak
of the domestic circumstances of her life, of the poetical mysteries of her
religion, and the singular usages and manners of her nation. It was in such
moments as these, that the native genius of her ardent character betrayed
itself; and that she poured on his listening ear, that tender strain of feeling,
or impassioned eloquence, which, brightened with all the sublimity of Eastern
style, was characterized by all that fluent softness, and spirited delicacy,
which belongs to woman, in whatever region she exists, when animated by the
desire of pleasing _him_, the object of her preference. “And while looks
intervened, or smiles,” the pleasure which these interesting conversations
conferred on a mind so new to such enjoyments, was secretly and unconsciously
cherished by the Missionary, and obviously betrayed, by the soft tranquillity
and increasing languor of his manner; by the long and ardent gaze of his fixed
eyes; by the low-drawn sigh, which so often lingered on the top of his breath;
and by all those traits of pleasurable sensation, which spoke a man, in whose
strong mind, rigid principles, and tranquil heart, human feeling, even under the
pure and sacred veil of religion, was making an unconscious and insidious
inroad. Confirmed by the opinion of others, and by his own experience, into a
belief of his infallibility, he dared not even to _suspect_ himself: yet there
were moments when a look of ineffable tenderness, a ringlet wafted by the wind
over his cheek, or eyes drawn in sudden confusion from his face, awakened him
from his illusionary dream--and then he flew to prayers and penance, for the
indulgence of feelings, which had not yet stained his spotless life, by any
thought or deed of evil; and, though the sudden consciousness sometimes struck
him, that temptation only was the test of virtue, and that nature could not be
said to be subdued, till she had been tried--yet he seldom suffered himself to
analyze feelings, which perhaps would have ceased to exist, had they been
perfectly understood. It was thus, the innate purity of the mind betrayed the
unconscious sensibility of the heart, while the passions became so intimately
incorporated with the spirit, as to leave their influence and agency almost
equal. Frequently seeking, in the sophistry of the heart, an excuse for its
weakness, he said, “It is Heaven which has implanted in our nature the seeds of
all affection, and the love we bear to an individual is but a modification of
that sentiment we are commanded to cherish for the species; and surely that love
must be pure, which we cherish, without the wish or hope of gathering any fruit
from its existence, but that of the pleasure of loving: the disinterestedness of
a Christian may go thus far, but can go no further; the purest of all canonized
spirits[3] has said, ‘The wicked are miserable, because they are incapable of
loving.’ Love, therefore, is solely referable to virtue; it is by the corruption
of passion that it ceases to be love. May we then continue to love, that we may
continue to be guiltless!”

CHAPTER IX. Peace had fled the breast of the man of God! It had deserted him in
wilds, which the tumults of society had not reached; it had abandoned him in
shades, where the ravages of passion were unknown; and left him exposed to
affliction and remorse, in scenes, whose tranquil loveliness resembled that
heaven his faith had promised to his hope. He had brought with him into deserts,
the virtues and the prejudices which belong to social life, in a certain stage
of its progress; and in deserts, Nature, reclaiming her rights, unopposed by the
immediate influence of world, now taught him to feel her power, through the
medium of the most omnipotent of her passions. Hitherto, forming his principles
and regulating his feelings, by an artificial standard of excellence, which
admitted of no application to the actual relations of life; governed by
doctrines, whose fundamental tenets militated against the intentions of
Providence, by doctrines, which created a fatal distinction between the species,
substituted a passive submission for an active exercise of reason, and replaced
a positive, with an ideal virtue--he resembled the enthusiast of experimental
philosophy, who shuts out the light and breath of heaven, to inhale an
artificial atmosphere, and to enjoy an ideal existence. But Nature had now
breathed upon his feelings her vivifying spirit: and as some pleasurable and
local sensation, which, at first, quivers in the lip, and mantles on the cheek,
gradually diffuses itself through the frame, and communicates a vibratory
emotion to every nerve and fibre; so the sentiment, which had, at first,
imperceptibly stolen on his heart, now mastered and absorbed his life. He now
lived in a world of newly connected and newly modified ideas; every sense and
every feeling was increased in its power and acuteness--thoughts passed more
rapidly through his mind, and he felt himself hurried away by new and powerful
emotions, which he sought not to oppose, and yet trembled to indulge. He had
not, indeed, relinquished a single principle of his moral feeling--he had not
yet vanquished a single prejudice of his monastic education; to feel, was still
with him to be weak--to love, a crime--and to resist, perfection; but the
doctrines which religion inculcated and habit cherished, the vows which bigotry
exacted, and prejudice observed; while they scrupulously guarded the inviolable
conduct of the priest, had lost their influence over the passions of the man.
And the painful vibration, between the natural feeling and conscientious
principle, left him a prey to those internal and harassing conflicts, which rose
and increased, in proportion to the respective exercise and action of a
passionate impulse, and a rigid sense of duty. Thus, among the privations of a
week, peculiarly holy in his church, and exclusively devoted to religious
exercises, he imposed on himself the most difficult of all restraints, that of
abstaining from the society of his dangerous Neophyte; but the restless
impatience with which he submitted to the severe and voluntary penance, enhanced
every pleasure, and exaggerated every enjoyment, he had relinquished. It more
sweetly melodized the voice he languished again to hear. It heightened the
lustre of those eyes he sighed again to meet; it endeared those innocent
attentions which habit had made so necessary to his happiness; and, by rendering
the Indian more dangerous to his imagination than to his senses, invested her
with that splendid, that touching ideal charm, which love, operating upon
genius, in the absence of its object, can alone bestow. Dearer to his heart, as
she became more powerful to his imagination, her idea grew upon his mind with a
terrific influence, disputing with Heaven his nightly vigil and daily
meditation. It was in vain that he imposed on himself the law not to behold, or
to commune with her for six tedious days: his steps, involuntarily faithful to
his feelings, still led him against his better reason to those places, in whose
fragrant shades she appeared to him a celestial visitant: sometimes he beheld
her at a distance at the confluence of the streams, engaged in the idolatrous,
but graceful rites of her half-resigned religion--and then he believed himself
commanded by duty to fly to her redemption, and to rescue her from the ancient
errors into which his absence again had plunged her; till, suddenly distrusting
the impulse which led him towards her presence, he fled from the sight of the
dangerous Heathen, and almost wished, that infidelity could assume an appearance
more appropriate to its own deformity. Sometimes, when the ardour of the
meridian sun obliged her to seek the impervious shades of her consecrated grove,
he beheld her reclined on flowers, engaged in the perusal of the religious
fables of her poetic faith; and then a recollection of a genius which shone
bright and luminous even through the errors which clouded its lustre, mingled
itself with the actual impression of her beauty; and he believed a communion
with a mind so pure, would counteract the influence, while it added to the
charm, of a form so lovely. But when, from the summit of his rocks, when the
moonlight silvered their abrupt points, he beheld her, gliding like a pure and
disembodied spirit, through the shades of her native paradise, and, with a timid
and uncertain step, moving near the woody path which led to his grotto; her
countenance and person characterized by the solicitude of anxious tenderness,
and the sadness of disappointed hope; then she appeared to him a creature loving
as beloved; then he admitted the blessed conviction, that he had inspired
another with that feeling, which had given to him a new sense of being; then he
was tempted to throw himself at her feet, and to avow the existence of that
passion which he now believed, with a mingled emotion of rapture and remorse,
was shared and returned by her who had inspired it. Yet still, habits of
religious restraint, even more, perhaps, than religion itself, checked the
dangerous impulse; and that ardent sentiment which resisted the force of his
reason and the influence of his faith, submitted to the dictates of what might
be deemed rather his prejudice than his principle. Shuddering and trembling, he
fled from her view, and sought, in the recollection of the infidelity of the
Brahminical Priestess, a resource against the tenderness and the charms of the
lovely woman. But when, at last, this insupportable absence finally and
irresistibly “urged a sweet return;” when the stated exercises of devotion no
longer opposed the more active duties of conversion; then love, consecrated by
the offices of religion, pursued the object of its secret desire; and, the week
of self-denial past, the evening of the seventh day became, to him, the sabbath
of the heart. He left the cave of his solitude and his penance, and, with a
rapid but unequal step, proceeded towards the fatal stream, on whose flowery
shores the Priestess of Brahma still offered up her vesper homage to the
luminary, whose fading beam was reflected in the up-turned eyes of its votarist.
As he approached the Priestess and the shrine, his heart throbbed with a
feverish wildness unknown to its former sober pulse. Pleasure, enhanced by its
recent privation; love, warming as it passed through the medium of an ardent
imagination; a consciousness of weakness, cherished by self-distrust; and an
apprehension of frailty proportioned to the exaggerated force of the temptation
--all mingled a sensation of suffering with the sentiment of pleasure; and the
visitation of happiness, to a heart which had of late studiously avoided its
enjoyment, resembled that rapid return of health, which is so frequently
attended with pain to the exhausted organs; while conscience, awakened by the
excess of emotion, dictated a reserve and coldness to the studied manners, to
which the ardour of unpractised and impetuous feelings with difficulty
submitted. At last, through the branches of a spreading palm-tree, he beheld, at
a distance, the object who had thus agitated and disturbed the calmest mind
which Heaven’s grace had ever visited. She was leaning on the ruins of a
Brahminical altar, habited in her sacerdotal vestments, which were rich but
fantastic. Her brow was crowned with consecrated flowers; her long dark hair
floated on the wind; and she appeared a splendid image of the religion she
professed--bright, wild, and illusory; captivating to the senses, fatal to the
reason, and powerful and tyrannic to both. The Missionary paused and gazed--and
advanced, and paused, again; till, on a nearer approach, he observed that her
eager look seemed to pursue some receding object; that her cheek was flushed,
and that her veil, which had fallen over her bosom, heaved to its rapid
palpitation. Never before had he observed such disorder in her air, such emotion
in her countenance, while the abstraction of her mind was so profound, that she
perceived not his approach, till he stood before her: then she started as from
the involvement of some embarrassing dream; a soft and unrepressed transport
beamed in her eyes, which at once expressed joy, surprise, and apprehension; and
the changeful hues of her complexion resembled the dissolving tints of an iris,
as they melt and mingle into each other, blending their pale and ruby rays till
the vivid lustre fades slowly away upon the colourless air. Pale and smiling as
one who was at the same time sad and pleased, she extended her hand to the
Missionary, and said, in a voice replete with tenderness and emotion, “My
father, thou art then come at last!” While, suddenly starting at the faint
rustling of the trees as the wind crept among their leaves, she cast round an
anxious and inquiring glance. The Missionary let fall her hand, and, folding his
own, he remained silent, and fixed on her a look equally penetrating and
melancholy; for the rapture of a re-union so wished for, was now disturbed by
doubts, whose object was vague, and embittered by suspicions, whose existence
was agony. Luxima, timid and pensive, cast her eyes to the earth, as if unable
to support the piercing severity of his gaze; a transient blush mantled on her
cheek, and again left it colourless. “Luxima,” said the Missionary, in emotion,
“we meet not now, as we were wont to meet, hailing each other with the smile of
peace.” With eyes which spoke the heart in every glance, and all the precious
confidence of innocence and truth, “I would say,” he continued, looking
earnestly on her, “that, since we parted, something of thy mind’s angelic
calmness was forfeited, or lost; something of thy bosom’s sunshine was shadowed,
or o’ercast.”

“But thou art here,” she returned, eagerly, “and all again is peace and
brightness.” The Missionary withdrew his eyes from her blushing and eloquent
countenance, and cast them on the earth. Her looks made too dangerous a comment
on the words her lips had uttered, which he felt were too delightful, and feared
were too evasive; which his heart led him to believe, and his reason to
distrust; and, seating himself beside her on the bank where she now reposed,
after a silent pause, which the half-breathed sighs of the Indian only
interrupted, he said, “Well! be it so, my daughter; be still the guardian of thy
bosom’s secret; pure it must be, being thine. I have no right to wrench it from
thee. If it be a human feeling, belonging only to mortality, to hopes which this
world bounds, or thoughts which this life limits, I, who am not thy temporal,
but thy spiritual friend, can have no claim upon thy confidence. Oh, no! believe
me, Luxima, that, between thee and me, nothing can now, or ever will, exist, but
the sacred cause which first led me to thee.”

This he said with a vehemence but little corresponding to the character he had
assumed, and with an air so cold and so severe, that Luxima, timid and
afflicted, had no force to reply, and no power to restrain her emotions.
Drooping her head on her bosom, she wept. Touched by her unresisting softness,
moved by a sadness, his severity had caused, and gazing with secret admiration
on the grace and loveliness of her looks and attitude, as she chased away the
tears which fell on her bosom, with her long hair, “Luxima,” he said, in a tone
which struggled between his secret emotion, and assumed coldness, “Luxima, why
do you weep? I am not used to see a woman’s tears, save when they fall from
hearts which penitence, or grief, has touched; but yours, Luxima--they fall in
such tender softness: dearest daughter, have I offended you?”

“’Tis true,” said Luxima, cheered by the increasing tenderness of his manner,
“thou art so grandly good, so awful in thy excellence, that, little used to
wisdom or to virtue so severe, I fear thee most, even when most I----” She
paused abruptly, and blushed; then raising her eyes to his, a soft confidence
seemed to grow upon their gaze, and, with that fatal smile that so changed the
character of her countenance, from the sedate tranquillity of the Priestess to
the bashful fondness of the woman, she said, “Father, with us the divine wisdom
is not personified, as cold, severe, and rigid; but as the infant twin of love,
floating in gay simplicity in the perfumed dews which fill the crimson buds of
young camala-flowers[4].”

“Luxima,” he returned, seduced into softness by her tender air, “if I am in look
and word severe, such are my habits; but my heart, dear daughter, at least I
fear to thee, is too, too weak; and, when I see thee sad, and am denied thy
confidence----” He paused; and the rainbow-look of Luxima changing as she spoke,
she replied:

“I am, indeed, not quite so happy as I have been. Once my lip knew no mystery,
my heart no care, my brow no cloud; but, of late, I strive to hide my thoughts
even from myself. I oft am sad, and oft regret the glorious death they robbed me
of; for, oh! had I expired upon my husband’s pyre, in celestial happiness with
him I should have enjoyed the bliss of Heaven while fourteen Indras reign.”

The Missionary started as she pronounced this rhapsody; a new pang seized his
heart, and made him feel as if the deadly drop, which lurks beneath the adder’s
fang, had been distilled into a vital artery: for Luxima had loved, since Luxima
lamented even that dreadful death itself, which, in her own belief, would have
united her eternally to the object for whom her passion still seemed to survive.
“Luxima,” he said coldly, “till now I never knew you loved; but though you had,
a woe so idle and so causeless, as that you cherish for a long-lost object, is
sanctioned neither by sentiment nor duty, by reason nor religion.”

“Had he lived,” said Luxima, with simplicity, “it would then have been no sin to
love.”

“Bound to a vestal life,” returned the Missionary, changing colour, “like me
devoted to eternal celibacy, can _you_ lament an object who would have loved you
with a _human passion_; with such a love as should not even be dreamed of in a
vestal’s thoughts?”

“He was my husband,” said Luxima, turning away her eyes, and sighing. “Not by
religion’s holy law,” replied the Missionary, in a hurried tone of voice; “for
forms idolatrous and wild but mock the sacred name; not by the law of sentiment,
for no endearing intercourse of heart and soul blended your affections in one
indissoluble union, for ye were almost strangers to each other; he saw thee but
in childhood, and not, as now, a woman!--and so lovely!” He paused, and a deep
scarlet suffused even his brow. “He was at least,” said Luxima, with mild
firmness, “_my husband_ according to the law and the religion of my country.”

“But if you have abandoned that religion,” returned the Missionary, “the ties it
formed are broken, and with them should their memory decay.”

“Abandoned it!” repeated Luxima, shuddering, and raising her eyes to heaven. “O
Brahma! !”

“Luxima,” said the Missionary, sternly, “there is no medium; either thou art a
Pagan or a Christian; either I give thee up to thy idols, and behold thee no
more, or thou wilt believe and follow me.”

“Then I will believe and follow thee,” she replied quickly, yet trembling as she
spoke. “O Luxima! would I could confide in that promise! for, through thee
alone, I count upon the redemption of thy nation.”

“Father,” she returned, “a miracle like _that_, can only be performed by thee.
Look as I have seen thee look--speak as I have heard thee speak;--give to others
that new sense of truth, which thou hast given to me:--and then----”

“Luxima,” interrupted the Missionary, in great emotion; “you are misled, my
daughter; misled by the ardour of your gratitude, by an exaggerated sense of
powers which belong not to man, but to Heaven, whose agent he is. The power of
conversion rests not exclusively with me; in you it might effect more miracles
than I have ever manifested.”

Luxima waved her head incredulously. “Never,” said she, “shall I become the
partner of thy pious labours! and should I even appear as thy proselyte, if I
were not looked on with horror, I should at least be considered with
indifference.”

“With indifference!” he repeated, throwing his eyes over the perfect loveliness
of her form and countenance: “Luxima, is there on earth a being so divested of
all human feeling, as to behold, to hear thee with indifference?”

“Art thou not such a one?” demanded Luxima, with a timid and trembling anxiety
of look and voice. “I, Luxima!--I--” he faltered, and changed colour; then,
after a momentary pause, casting down his eyes, he resumed, “To be divested of
all faculty of sense, were it possible, would be a state of organization so
fatal and so imperfect, as to leave the being thus formed equally without the
wish and without the power of becoming virtuous; for virtue, the purest, the
most severe, and, O Luxima! by much the most difficult to attain, is that virtue
which consists in the conquest over the impulses of a frail and perverse nature,
by religion and by reason. Thinkest thou then, dearest daughter, that it belongs
to _my_ nature, being man, to live divested of all human feeling, of all human
passion; to behold, with perfect insensibility, forms created to delight; to
listen with perfect indifference to sounds breathed to enchant; and that when,
upon thy cheek, the crimson hues of modesty and pleasure mantle and mix their
soft suffusion; when in thy eyes, rays of languid light---- Luxima! Luxima!” he
continued vehemently, and in confusion, “I repeat to thee, that there can be no
virtue where there is no temptation; no merit, but in resistance; but in an
entire subjection, through religion, of those feelings which, by a sweet but
dread compulsion, drag us towards perdition. And, oh! if trial be indeed the
test of virtue, I at least may hope to find some favour in the sight of Heaven,
for my trials have not been few.” As he spoke, his whole frame trembled with
uncontrollable emotion, and the paleness of death over-spread his face. Luxima,
moved by an agitation in one, who had hitherto appeared to her eyes superior to
human feeling, and to human weakness, was touched by an emotion so accordant to
the tender softness and ardent sensibility of her own character; and timidly
taking his hand, and looking with an half-repressed fondness in his eyes, she
said, “Art thou then also human? Art thou not all-perfect by thy nature? I
thought thee one absorbed in views of heaven, resembling the pure spirit of some
holy Saneasse, when, having passed the troubled ocean of mortal existence, it
reaches the Paradise of Kylausum, and reposes in eternal beatitude, at the foot
of _Him_ who is clothed with the _fourteen worlds_[5].”

The Missionary withdrew his hand, and reposing on it his head, remained for some
time lost in thought; at last he said, “Luxima, have you then among your people
such men as you have now described; who, by a perfect abstraction of mind, live
divested of all human feeling, and who, walking through life in a state of rigid
self-denial, renounce all its enjoyments, from a conviction of their vanity? Can
a religion so false as theirs produce an effect so perfect? And can the most
powerful sensations, the most tyrannic passions incident to the very
constitution of our natures, making an inseparable part of our structure,
connected and interwoven with all the powers of existence--can they submit and
bend to the influence of _opinion_; to an idea of excellence originating in, and
governed by, a fatal and fanatic superstition; but worthy, from its purity and
elevation, to be the offspring of that _grace_, which comes alone from Heaven?”

Luxima replied, “It is written in the Vaides and Shastries, whose light
illuminates the earth, that ‘_the resignation of all pleasure is better than its
enjoyment_;’ and that he who resists the passions of his nature shall be planted
in the world of _daivers_, or pure spirits; there to enjoy eternal bliss. And
_one such_ person I once knew; who, having abandoned all earthly attachments,
and broken all earthly ties, lived remote from man, absorbed in the
contemplation of the _Divine Essence_: never had his lip imbibed the refreshing
beverage of the delicious _caulor_, or the juice of newly-gathered fruits; never
had he inhaled the odour of morning blossoms, nor bathed in the cool wave which
smiles to the light of the night-flower-loving god; never had he pillowed his
sacred brow with the downy leaves of the _mashucca_, nor pressed the hand of
affection, nor listened to the voice of fondness; and his eye, fixed on earth or
raised to heaven, still met no objects but such as tended to chasten his
thoughts, or to elevate his soul;--till one day a _holy woman_, devoted to the
service of her religion, ascended the high hill, where the hermit dwelt in
peace. She came, with others, in faith and sanctity, to ask his mediation with
Heaven, according to the custom of her nation. The woman departed edified from
his presence, for she had communed with him on the subject of the nine great
luminaries, which influence all human events;--but the soul of the hermit
pursued her in secret; _he_ whose infant hand grasps the lightning’s flash[6],
the god of the flowery bow, had touched the cold, pure thought of the recluse
with a beam of his celestial fire:--_he loved!_--but he loved a _vestal
priestess_, and therefore was forbidden all hope. The Faquir pined in sadness,
and sought to wash away his secret fault in the holiest wave which purifies the
erring soul from sin; and the _goddess_ of the _eight virgins_ received him in
her consecrated bosom[7]. Doubtless he is now one of the _diavers_, the saints,
who, by the voluntary sacrifice of mortal life, obtain instant admittance to the
heavenly regions.” Luxima sighed as she concluded her little tale. The
Missionary echoed her sigh, and raising a look of sadness to her pensive
countenance, he demanded, “And knew the vestal priestess the secret of the
hermit’s love?”

“Not until he had passed into the world of spirits; and then a wandering yogi,
who had received his last words ere he plunged into the Ganges, brought her, at
his desire, a wreath of faded flowers[8]: the red rose of passion was twined
with the ocynum, the flower of despondency; and the fragile mayhya, the emblem
of mortality, drooped on the camalata, the blossom of heaven. The faded wreath
thus told the love and fate of him who wove it.”

“And this fatal priestess, Luxima?” said the Missionary, with an increased
emotion, showing there was a nerve in his heart, which vibrated in sympathy to
the tale she told. Luxima made no reply to the doubtful interrogatory; and the
Missionary, raising his eyes to her face, perceived it crimsoned with blushes,
while her tearful eyes were fixed on the earth. He started--grew pale; and,
covering his face with his hands, after a long silence, he said, “Luxima! thy
Hermit was a virtuous though a most misguided man; his temptation to error was
powerful; the virtue of resistance was his, and the crime of self-destruction
was the crime of his dark and inhuman superstition--terrific and fatal
superstition! in all its views injurious to society, and pernicious to the moral
nature of man, which thus offers a soothing but impious alternative to the human
suffering, and the human woe; which thus, between infamy and an almost
impossible resistance to a clear and fatal temptation, offers a final resource
beyond all which reason can bestow, or time effect; beyond all, save that which
religion proffereth; and thus alluring the worn, the weary, and long-enduring
life to its own wished-for _immolation_, crowns and conceals the fatal act
beneath a host of bright illusions, and offers to the suicide rewards, which
should belong to him alone who dares to _live_ and _suffer_, who feels and who
resists; and who, though impelled by passion, or seduced by sentiment, still
restrains the wish, corrects the impulse, and rules and breaks the stubborn
feeling nature breathed into his soul when it was first quickened, that, by this
daily death, he might ensure that life which is eternal. If, Luxima, there lived
such a man, thus enduring and thus resisting, would you not give him your
applause?”

“I would give him my pity,” said Luxima, raising her hands and eyes in great
emotion. The Missionary replied with a deep sigh, “You would do well, my
daughter; it is pity only he deserves.” Then, after a long pause, he said
firmly, “Luxima, I came hither this evening to commune with thee upon that great
subject, which should alone unite us; but the mysterious emotion in which I
found thee wrapt, distracted thoughts, which are not yet, I fear, all Heaven’s;
nor did thy little story, dearest daughter, serve to tranquillize or sooth them;
for, in the mirror of another’s faults, man, weak and erring, may still expect
to see the sad reflection of his own. But now the dews of evening fall heavily,
the light declines, and it is time we part; and, O Luxima! so long as we
continue thus to meet, thus may we ever part, in the perfect confidence of each
other’s virtue, and each other’s truth.” He arose as he spoke. Luxima also
arose; she moved a few paces, and then paused, and raised her timid eyes to his,
with look of one who languishes to repose some confidence, yet who stands awed
by the severity of the elected confidant. The Missionary, who now studiously
avoided those eloquent looks of timid fondness, whose modesty and sensibility so
sweetly blended their lovely expressions, withdrew his eyes, and fixed them on
the rosary he had taken from his breast, with the abstracted air of one wrapt in
holy meditation. Thus they walked on in silence, until they had reached the
vicinage of Luxima’s habitation. There, as was his custom, the Missionary
paused, and Luxima turning to him said, “Father, wilt thou not bless me, ere we
part?” The Missionary extended his pastoral hands above her seraph head; the
blessing was registered in his eyes, but he spoke not, for his heart was full.
Luxima withdrew, and he stood pursuing, with admiring eyes, her perfect form, as
she slowly ascended to her pavilion: then turning away as she disappeared, he
sighed convulsively, as one who gives breath to emotion after a long and painful
struggle to suppress or to conceal it. His thoughts, unshackled by the presence
of her to whom they pointed, now flowed with rapidity and in confusion;
sometimes resting on the mysterious emotion he had observed in the countenance
and air of the ingenuous Indian; sometimes on the suicide Hermit; and sometimes
on himself, on his past life, his former vows, and existing feelings; but these
recollections, conjured up to sooth and to confirm, served but to disquiet and
to agitate; and thus involved in cogitation, slow and lingering in his step, he
involuntarily paused as he reached the bank, whose elastic moss still bore the
impression of Luxima’s light form. He paused and gazed on the altar of her
worship; it was to him as some sad memorial, whose view touches on the spring of
painful recollection; and the pang which had shot through his heart, when for a
moment he had believed her, false as the religion at whose mouldering shrine she
stood, again revived its painful sensation, like the memory of some terrific
vision, which long leaves its shade of horror upon the awakened mind, when the
dream which gave it has long passed away from the imagination. There is no love
where there is no cause for solicitude; and the first moment when hope and fear
slumber in the perfect consciousness of exclusive and unalienable possession, is
perhaps the first moment when the calm of indifference dawns upon the declining
ardour of passion. To the eye of philosophy it would have been a curious
analysis of the human heart, to have observed the workings of a strong and
solitary feeling, in a character unsophisticated and unpractised; to have
observed a passion, neither cherished nor opposed by any external object,
feeding on its own vitals, and seeking instinctively to maintain its own
vivacity, by fancying doubts for which it had no cause, and forming suspicions
for which it had no subject. Still in search of some hidden reason for the
restless conflicts of his unhappy mind, the Missionary stood musing and gazing
on the spot where the mysterious emotion of Luxima had excited that painful,
suspicious, and indefinite sentiment, of whose nature and tendency he was
himself ignorant. He could fear no rival in that consecrated solitude, which his
presence alone violated; but he was afflicted to believe that Luxima could muse,
when he was not the subject of her reverie; that Luxima could weep, when he
caused not her tears to flow; that Luxima could be moved, touched, agitated, and
he not be the sole, the powerful cause of her emotion. It is this exacting,
tyrannic, and exclusive principle which forms the generic character of a true
and unmixed passion: it is this feeling by which we seek and expect to master
and possess the whole existence of the object beloved, which distinguishes a
strong, ardent, and overwhelming sentiment, from those faint modifications of
the vital feeling, which serve rather to amuse than to occupy life; to interest
rather than absorb existence. It is thus that love, operating upon genius, is
assisted by the imagination, which creates a thousand collateral causes of hope
and fear, of transport and despair; which, in moderate characters, find no
existence, and which, at once fatal and delightful, are the unalienable
inheritance of natural and exquisite sensibility, of a peculiar delicacy of
organization, and of those refined habits of thought and feeling to which it
gives birth. While thus occupied, creating for himself ideal sources of pain and
pleasure, the twilight of evening was slowly illumined by the silver rising of a
cloudless moon; which threw upon the shining earth the shadow of his lofty
figure; it tinged with living light the crystal bosom of the consecrated waters;
it scattered its rays upon the motionless foliage of the night-loving sephalica,
and found a bright reflection in some object which lay glittering amidst the
fragments of the ruined altar. When the heart is deeply involved, every sense
allies itself to its feelings, and the eye beholds no object, and the ear
receives no sound, which, in their first impression, awakens not the master
pulse of emotion. The Missionary saw, in the beaming fragment, some ornament of
the sacerdotal vestments of the Brahminical Priestess. Considering it as more
consecrated by her touch than by the purposes to which it had been devoted, he
stooped, and blushed as he did it, to rescue and preserve it;--but it was no gem
sacred to religious ornament; it made no part of the insignia worn by the
children of Brahma; it was the _silver crescent_ of Islamism; it was the device
of the disciples of Mahomet; the ornament worn in the centre of the turban of
the Mogul officers; and deeply impressed on its silvery surface, obvious even to
a passing glance, and engraven in Arabic characters, was the name of the heroic
and imperial Prince Solyman Sheko. The Missionary saw this, and saw no more; a
tension in his brow, a sense of suffocation, as though life were about to submit
to annihilation; a pulse feeble and almost still, limbs trembling, and eyes
which no longer received the light, left him no other voluntary power than to
throw himself on the earth; while the strong previous excitement produced, for a
few seconds, a general diminution of the vital action; and he lay as though
death had given peace to those feelings which nothing in life could at the
moment sooth or assuage. From this temporary suspension of existence he was
roused by the sound of horses’ feet: he startled; he arose, and sprung forward
in that direction whence the sound proceeded: he perceived (himself unseen,
amidst the trees) a person on horseback, who, standing in his stirrup, and
shading his eyes from the lustre of the moonlight, cast round an anxious and
inquiring glance, then approached within the hallowed circle of the Brahminical
altar. The Missionary rushed from his concealment--the paleness of his
countenance rendered more livid by the moonlight which fell on it, and by the
dark relief of his black cowl and flowing robe. He stood, amidst the ruins of
the heathen shrine, resembling the spirit of some departed minister of its
idolatrous rites, the terrific guardian of the awful site of ancient
superstition. Whatever was the impression of his abrupt and wild appearance, the
effect was instantaneous: ere he had uttered a sound, the stranger suddenly
disappeared, as if borne on the wings of the wind. The Missionary in vain
pursued his flight. After having followed the sounds of the horse’s feet, till a
deathlike silence hung upon their faded echo, the sole result of his observation
was, that the mysterious intruder had fled towards the Mogul camp, which still
lay in the plains of Sirinagur; and the sole inference to be drawn from the
singular adventure was, that Luxima was beloved by the son of the imperial Daara
--that Luxima was false--and that he was most deceived! This conviction fell on
him like a thunderbolt. Thoughts of a new and gloomy aspect now rushed on each
other, as if they had been accelerated by the bursting of some barrier of the
mind, which, till that moment, had retained them in their natural course. He
could not comprehend the nature of those frightful sensations which quivered
through his frame--that deadly sickness of the soul with which the most dreadful
of all human passions first seizes on its victim. His mind’s fever infected his
whole frame--his head raged--his heart beat strongly; and all the vital motions
seemed hurried on, as if their harmony had been suddenly destroyed by some
fearful visitation of divine wrath. He threw himself on the dewy earth, and felt
something like a horrible enjoyment, in giving himself up, without reservation,
to pangs of love betrayed, of faith violated, of a jealousy, whose fury rose in
proportion to the loveliness of its object, and to the force and ardour of the
character on which it operated. His memory, faithful only to the events which
aimed at his peace, gave back to his imagination Luxima in all her bewitching
tenderness, in all the seduction of her seeming innocence: he felt the touch of
her hand, he met the fondness of her look; his heart kindled at her blush of
love, and melted at her voice of passion. He beheld her, bright and fresh, at
the rising sun--tender and languid at its setting; but by him these delights of
a first and true love were now only remembered to be resigned--these joys, which
he had almost purchased with the loss of heaven, could now no longer live for
him. Another would gaze upon her look, and meet her caress, and answer to her
tenderness; another would send his hopes forth, with the rising and the setting
sun: but for him there was no longer a morning, there was no longer an evening!
all was the sad gloom of endless night. In a mind, however, such as his, to
doubt one moment, was to decide the next--his sole, his solitary, his tyrannic
passion, becoming its own retribution, would, he believed, accompany him to the
grave; its object, he determined to resign for ever. To strengthen him in his
intention, he opposed the holy calm, the sacred peace, the heavenly hopes and
solemn joys of his past and sinless life, to the sufferings, the conflicts, the
conscious self-debasement of his late and present existence. He remembered that
he was the minister of Heaven; devoted, by vows the most awful and the most
binding, to its cause alone; and that he had come into perilous and distant
regions, to preach its truths, not by precept only, but by example, and to
substitute, in the land of idolatry, the religion of the Spirit, for that of the
senses. He sought pertinaciously to deceive himself, and to mistake the feelings
which rose from the pangs of jealousy, for the visitation of conscience,
suddenly awakened from its long and deathlike slumber, by the fatal consequences
of that intoxicating evil, which had so long entranced and “steeped it in
forgetfulness.” He sought to believe that his guardian angel had not yet
abandoned him, and that Heaven itself, by miraculous interposition, had snatched
him from an abyss of crime, towards which, an ardent and unguarded zeal for its
sacred cause had insensibly seduced him. Struck by the conviction, he prayed
fervently, and vowed solemnly; but his prayers and his vows alike partook of the
vehemence of those contending passions by which he was moved and agitated. He
wept upon the cross he pressed to his lips--but his tears were not all the holy
dew of pious contrition; religion became debtor to the passions she opposed, and
the ardour of his devotion borrowed its warmth and energy from the overflowing
of those human feelings it sought to combat and to destroy. At last his
emotions, worn out by their own force and activity, subsided into the torpor of
extreme exhaustion. Throwing himself upon the earth, encompassed by those deep
shades of darkness which precede the twilight dawn of day, he slept; but his
slumber was broken and transient, and the dreams it brought to his disordered
imagination were harassing to his spirits as the painful vigil which had
preceded them; for the affliction which is deep rooted in the heart, which
presses upon the vital spring of self-love, and disturbs the calm of
conscientious principle, blasting hope, rousing remorse, and annihilating
happiness, sets at defiance the soothing oblivion of sleep. Nature, thus opposed
to herself, in vain presents the balmy antidote to the suffering she has
inflicted--and the repose she offers, flies from the lids her unregulated
feelings have sullied with a tear. CHAPTER X. The day arose brightly upon the
valley of Cashmire. It came in all the splendid majesty of light, bathing in
hues of gold the summits of the Indian Caucasus: it came in all the renovating
influence of warmth, raising the blossom the night-breeze had laid low; it shed
the dews of heaven upon the towering head of the mighty banyan, and steeped in
liquid silver the flowers of the vesanti creeper; pervading, with a genial and
delicious power, the most remote recess, the most minute production of nature,
and pouring upon the face of the earth, the beneficent influence of that Being
from whose word it proceeded. But the day brought no solace in its dawn, no joy
in its course, to him, who, in the scale of creation, came nearest in his nature
to the Creator;--it brightened not his thoughts; it revived not his hopes; and,
for him, its beams shone, its dews fell, in vain. The minister of the religion
of peace arose from his harassing slumber with an heart heavy and troubled, with
a frame chilled and unrefreshed. He arose, agitated by that vague consciousness
of misery, which disturbs, without being understood, when the mind, suddenly
awakened from the transient suspension of its powers, has not yet regained its
full vigour of perception, nor the memory collected and arranged the freshly
traced records of some stranger woe, and when the faculty of suffering, alone
remains to us in all its original force and activity. Agitated by the tumults of
passion, distracted by the suspicions of jealousy, torn by the anguish of
remorse, and humbled by the consciousness of weakness, the Missionary now felt
the full extent of his progressive and obstinate illusion, in the consequences
it had already produced; he felt that the heart which once opens itself to the
admission of a strong passion, is closed against every other impression, and
that objects obtain or lose their influence, only in proportion as they are
connected with, or remote from, its interest. Love was now to him what his
religion had once been, and the strongest feeling that rules the human heart
stood opposed to the most powerful opinion which governs the human mind:--the
conflict was terrific, and proportioned in obstinacy and vigour to the strength
of the character in which it was sustained. Knowing no solace in his misery but
what arose from the belief that the secret of his weakness was known only to
Heaven and to himself, he resolved not to trust its preservation to the issue of
chance; but, ere the dreadful passions which shook his soul could realize their
fatal influence in crime; ere the fluctuating emotions which degraded his mind
could resolve themselves into iniquity; ere he debased the life which sin had
not yet polluted, or broke the vows which were revered, even while they were
endangered, he determined to fly the scenes of his temptation, and to cling to
the cross for his redemption and support. Yet still, with an heart vibrating
from the recent convulsion of its most powerful feelings, he remained irresolute
even in his resolution. Convinced of the imperious necessity which urged him to
leave, for ever, the object of a passion which opposed itself equally to his
temporal and to his eternal welfare; to leave for ever, those scenes which had
cherished and witnessed its progress; he still doubted whether he should again,
and for the last time, behold her, whose falsehood it was his interest to
believe, and his misery to suspect. Now governed by conscience and by jealousy;
now by tenderness and passion--the alternate victim of feeling and religion, of
love and of opinion; he continued (wretched in his indecision) to wander amidst
the voluptuous shades of his perilous seclusion; hoping that chance might betray
him into the presence of his dangerous and faithless disciple, and vowing
premeditatedly to avoid her, or to behold her only to upbraid, to admonish, and
to leave her for ever. The day, as it passed on, vainly told to his unheeding
senses its rapid flight in all the sweet gradations of light and odour, in beams
less ardent, and in gales more balmy; till the Missionary, unconsciously
descending a path worn away through a gigantic mass of pine-covered rocks, found
himself, at the setting of the sun, near the too well remembered stream of
evening worship. He started and shuddered, and involuntarily recoiled; and that
fatal moment when he had first seized the up-raised arm of the idolatrous
Priestess, rushed to his recollection: the hour--the place--the stream which had
since so often reflected in its course the pastor and the proselyte--the tree
which had so often shaded their fervid brows when the glow which suffused them
was not all the influence of season--the sun, whose descending beam had so often
been the herald of their felicity--all looked, all was now, as it had been then,
unaltered and unchanged. The Missionary gazed around him, and sighed profoundly:
“All here,” he said, “still breathes of peace, as when, myself at peace with all
the world, I first beheld this scene of tranquil loveliness. All here remains
the same. O man! it is then thy dreadful prerogative alone, to sustain that
change of all thy powers which leaves thee a stranger to thyself, lost in the
wild vicissitude of feelings, to which thy past experience can prove no guide,
thy reason lend no light: one fixed immutable law of harmony and order,
regulates and governs the whole system of unintelligent creatures; but thou, in
thy fatal pre-eminence, makest no part in the splendid mechanism of nature:
exclusive and distinct among the works of thy Creator, to thee alone is granted
a self-existing principle of intellectual pain; a solitary privilege of moral
suffering. Vicegerent of Heaven! thou rulest all that breathes, save only
thyself: and boasting a ray of the divine intelligence, thou art the slave of
instinct, thy principle of action a selfish impulse, and thy restraint an
inscrutable necessity.”--He paused for a moment, and raising his eyes to the
sun, which was descending in all the magnificence of retiring light, still
apostrophizing the species to which he belonged, and whose imperfections he felt
he epitomized in himself, he continued: “That orb, which rises brightly on thy
budding hopes, sets with a changeless lustre on their bloom’s destruction; but,
in the brief interval of time in which it performs its wonted course, in
uninterrupted order, what are the sad transitions by which the mind of man is
subject! what are the countless shades of hope and fear, of shame and triumph,
of rapture and despair, by which he may be depressed or elevated, ennobled or
debased!” He sighed profoundly, as he concluded a picture of which he was
himself the unfortunate original; and, withdrawing his eyes from the receding
sun, he threw them, with the looks of one who fears an intrusion upon his
solitary misery, in that line where a gentle rustling in the leaves had called
his attention. The branches, thick and interlaced, slowly unclasped their folds,
and thrown lightly back on either side, by a small and delicate hand, the
Priestess of Brahma issued from their dusky shade; her form lighted up by the
crimson rays of that life-giving power, to which she was at this hour wont to
offer her vesper homage. She had that day officiated in the Pagoda, where she
served, and she was habited in sacerdotal vestments, but there was in her look
more of the tender solicitude of an expecting heart, than the tranquil devotion
of a soul which religion only occupied. Advancing with a rapid, yet doubtful
step, she cast round her eyes with a look timid, tender, and apprehensive, as if
she wished and feared, and hoped and dreaded the presence of some expected
object--then pausing, she drew aside her veil, lest the almost impalpable web
should intercept the fancied sound which expectation hung on. Thus, as she stood
animated by suspenseful love, glowing with the hues of heaven, her up-held veil
floating, like a sun-tinged vapour, round her; she looked like the tender vision
which descends upon Passion’s dream, like the splendid image, to whose creation
Genius entrusts its own immortality. O woman! Nature, which made you fair, made
you fairest in the expression of this her best feeling; and the most perfect
loveliness of a cold insensibility becomes revolting and deformed, compared to
that intelligence of beauty which rushes upon the countenance from the heart
that is filled with a pure and ardent affection: then thought breathes upon the
lip, independent of sound; and the eye images in a glance, all that the soul
could feel in an age! Unseen, though haply not unexpected, the Missionary stood
lost in gazing, and finely illustrated the doctrine which gave birth to his
recent soliloquy; for in a moment, thought was changed into emotion, and musing
into passion; resolves were shaken, vows were cancelled, sufferings were
forgotten; on earth he saw only her, whom a moment before he had hoped never to
behold again; and from the world of feelings which had torn his heart, one only
now throbbed in its rapid pulse--it was the consciousness of being loved! He saw
it in the look, intently fixed upon the path he was wont to take: he saw it on
the cheek which lost or caught its colouring from sounds scarce audible: he saw
it in the air, the attitude; he saw it in the very respiration, which gave a
tremulous and unequal undulation to the consecrated vestment which shaded, with
religious mystery, the vestal’s hallowed bosom. Sight became to him the
governing sense of his existence; and the image which fascinated his eye,
absorbed and ruled every faculty of his mind. A moment would decide his destiny
--the least movement, and he was discovered to Luxima: a look turned, or a smile
directed towards him, and the virtues of his life would avail him nothing.--He
trembled, he shuddered!--Love was not only opposed to religion, to reason--in
his belief, it was at that moment opposed to his eternal salvation! Suddenly
struck by the horrible conviction, he turned his eyes away, and implored the
assistance of that Heaven he had abandoned. The voice of Luxima came between him
and his God. His prayer died, unfinished, on his lips. He paused, he listened;
but that voice, sweet and plaintive as it was, addressed not him--its murmuring
sounds, broken and soft, seemed only intended for another; for one who had
sprung from behind a clump of trees, and had fallen at her feet--It was the
Prince Solyman Sheko!! The Missionary stood transfixed, as though a blast from
Heaven had withered up his being! Luxima, apparently agitated by amazement and
terror, seemed to expostulate; but in a voice so tremulous and low, that it
scarcely could have reached the ear it was intended for. “Hear me,” said the
Prince, abruptly interrupting her, and holding the drapery of her robe, as if he
feared she would escape him; “hear me! I who have lived only to command, now
stoop to solicit; yet it is no ordinary suitor who pleads timidly at thy feet,
desponding while he supplicates--it is one resolved to know the _best_ or
_worst_--to conquer thee, or to subdue himself. Amidst the dreams of glory,
amidst the tumults of a warrior’s life, the fame of thy unrivalled beauty
reached my ear. I saw thee in the temple of thy gods, and offered to thee that
homage thou dost reserve for them. From that moment my soul was thine. Thy
loveliness hung upon me like a spell; and still I loitered ’midst the scenes thy
presence consecrates, while duty and ambition, my fame and glory, vainly called
me hence. Thy absence from the temple where thou dost preside, not more adoring
than adored; thy holy seclusion, which all lament, and none dare violate, which
even a Mussulman respects, blasted my hopes and crossed my dearest views: till
yesterday a mandate from my father left to my heart no time for cool
deliberation. With the shades of evening I sought the consecrated grove
forbidden to the foot of man; and for the first time presented myself to eyes
whose first glance fixed my destiny. Amazed and trembling, thou didst seem to
hear me in pity and disdain; then thou didst supplicate my absence--yet still I
lingered; but thou didst weep, and I obeyed the omnipotence of those sacred
tears--yet, ere I reached the camp, I cursed my weakness, and, listening only to
my imperious passion, returned to seek and sue, perhaps, to conquer and be
blessed! But in thy stead, I saw, or fancied that I saw, some prying Brahmin,
some jealous guardian of the vestal Priestess, placed in these shades to guard
and to preserve her from the unhallowed homage of human adoration, as if none
but the God she served was worthy to possess her. For thy sake, not for mine, I
fled: but now, while all thy brethren are engaged, performing in their temples
their solemn evening worship, I come to offer mine to thee. The sun has _their_
vows--thou hast mine. They offer to its benignant influence, prayers of
gratitude. Oh! let mine cease to be prayers of supplication; for I, like them,
am zealous in my idolatry; and thus, like them, devote what yet remains of my
existence to my idol’s service.” He ceased, and gazed, and sighed. Luxima had
heard him in silence, which was only interrupted by broken exclamations of
impatience and apprehension; for her attitude imaged the very act of flight. The
averted head, the advanced step, the strained eye, the timid disorder of her
countenance, all intimated the agitation of a mind, which seemed labouring under
the expectation of some approaching evil. A pause of a moment ensued; and the
Prince, construing her silence and emotion as his wishes directed, would have
taken her hand. The indignant glance of Luxima met his. There were, in his eyes,
more terrors than his words conveyed. She would have fled. The arms of the
unhallowed infidel were extended to inclose in their fold the sacred form of the
vestal Priestess; but an arm, stronger than his, defeated the sacrilegious
effort, and seizing him in its mighty grasp, flung him to a considerable
distance. The Mussulman was stunned: amazement, consternation, and rage, mingled
in his darkened countenance. He drew a dagger from his girdle, and flew at the
intruder--who suddenly darted forward to ward off the death-blow which
threatened him; and, seizing the up-raised arm of the infuriate Prince, he
struggled with his strength, and wrenching the weapon from the hand that
brandished it, flung it in the air. Then, with a look dignified and calm, he
said, “Young stranger, thou wouldest have dishonoured thyself, and destroyed me.
I have saved thee from the double crime; give Heaven thanks: return whence thou
camest; and respect, in future, the sacred asylum of innocence, which thy
presence and thy professions alike violate.”

The Prince, struck, but not daunted, by a firmness so unexpected, replied, with
indignation in his look, and rage storming on his brow, “And who art thou,
insolent! who thus darest command? By thy garb and air, thou seemest some
adventurer from the West, some wretched Christian, unconscious that, for the
first time, thou art in the presence of a Prince.”

The large dark eye of the Missionary rolled over the form of the youth in
haughtiness and pity. His lips trembled with a rage scarcely stifled, his
countenance blazed with the indignant feelings which agitated his mind. He
struggled religiously against himself; but the saintly effort was unequal to
combat the human impulse--he paused to recover his wonted equanimity of manner,
and then returned:

“Who am I, thou wouldest know? I am, like thee, young Prince, a man, alive to
the dignity of his nature as man, resolved, as able, to defend it; with sinews
no less braced than thine, a heart as bold, an arm as strongly nerved;
descended, like thyself, from royal race, and born, perhaps like thee, for toil
and warfare, for danger and for conquest: but views of higher aim than those
which kings are slaves to, replaced a worldly, with a heavenly object; and he,
whom thou hast dared to call a wretch, tramples beneath his feet the idle
baubles for which thy kindred steep their hands in brothers’ blood; great in the
independence of a soul which God informs, and none but God can move!” The
Missionary paused--the grandeur of his imperious air fading gradually away, like
the declining glories of an evening sky, as all their lustre melts in the solemn
tints of twilight. His eyes fell to the earth, and a cast of meekness subdued
the fire of their glance, and smoothed the lowering furrow of his close-knit
brow. “Prince,” he added, “thou didst ask me, who I am.--I am a Christian
Missionary, lowly and poor, who wandered from a distant land, to spread the
truth my soul adores, to do what good I can, and still to live in peace and
Christian love with thee and all mankind!” He ceased. Wonder and amazement,
shame and disappointment, mingled in the expressive countenance of the
Mussulman: he remained silent, alternately directing his glance towards the
Missionary, who stood awfully meek and grandly humble before him, and to Luxima,
who, faint and almost lifeless, leaned against the trunk of a tree, beaming
amidst its dark foliage like a spirit of air, whom the power of enchantment had
spell-bound in the dusky shade. The young and ardent Solyman had nothing to
oppose to the speech of the Missionary, and offered no reply; but rushing by
him, he fell at the feet of the Priestess. “Fair creature,” he said, “knowest
thou this wondrous stranger, and has he any influence o’er thy mind? for though
I hate him as an infidel, yet I would kneel to him, if he could but move thee in
my favour.”

“And what wouldst thou of a Brahmin’s daughter, and a consecrated vestal?”
interrupted the Missionary, trembling with agitation; while Luxima hid her
blushing face in her veil. “I would possess her affections!” returned the
impassioned Solyman. “She has none to bestow,” said the Missionary, in a
faltering voice; “her soul is wedded to Heaven.”

“Perhaps thou lovest her thyself,” said the Prince, rising from the feet of
Luxima, and darting a searching glance at the Missionary; who replied, while a
crimson glow suffused itself even to his brow, “I love her in Christian charity,
as I am bound to love all mankind.”

“And nothing more?” demanded the Prince, with a piercing look. “Nothing more?”
faintly demanded Luxima, turning on him eyes which melted with tenderness and
apprehension, as if her soul hung upon his reply. “Nothing more!” said the Monk,
faintly. “Swear it then,” returned Solyman, while his eyes ran over the anxious
countenance of the drooping Neophyte, who stood pale and sad, chasing away with
her long hair the tears which swelled to her eyes; “swear it, Christian, by the
God you serve.”

“And by what compulsion am I to obey thy orders,” said the Missionary
vehemently, and in unsubdued emotion, “and profane the name of the Most High, by
taking it in vain, because a boy desires it?”

“Boy! boy!” reiterated the Prince, his lips quivering with rage; then, suddenly
recovering himself, he waved his head, and smiled contemptuously; and turning
his eyes on Luxima, whose loveliness became more attractive from the tender
emotion of her varying countenance, he said, “Beautiful Hindu! it is now for
thee to decide! Haply thou knowest this Christian; perhaps thou lovest him! as
it is most certain that he loves thee. I also love thee: judge then between us.
With me thou mayst one day reign upon the throne of India, and yet become the
empress of thine own people; what he can proffer thee, besides his love, I know
not.”

“Besides his love!” faintly repeated Luxima; and a sigh, which came from her
heart, lingered long and trembling on her lips, while she turned her full eyes
upon the Missionary. “Ah! thou lovest him then?” demanded the Prince, in strong
and unsubdued emotion. “It is my religion now to do so,” replied the Indian,
trembling and covered with blushes; and chasing away her timid tears, she added
faintly, “Heaven has spoken through his lips to my soul.”

A long pause ensued; the eyes of each seemed studiously turned from the other;
and all were alike engrossed by their own secret emotions. Solyman was the first
to terminate a silence almost awful. “Unfortunate Indian!” exclaimed the Prince,
with a look of mingled anger and compassion; “thou art then a Christian, and an
apostate from thy religion, and must _forfeit cast_.”

At this denunciation, so dreadful, Luxima uttered a shriek, and fell at his
feet, pale, trembling, and in disorder. “Mercy!” she exclaimed, “mercy! recall
those dreadful words. Oh! I am not a Christian! not _all_ a Christian! His God
indeed is mine; but Brahma still receives my homage: I am still his Priestess,
and bound by holy vows to serve him; then save me from my nation’s dreadful
curse. It is in thy power only to draw it on my head: for here, hidden from all
human eyes, I listen to the precepts of this holy man, in innocence and truth.”

The Prince gazed on her for a moment, lovely as she lay at his feet, in softness
and in tears; then concealing his face in his robe, he seemed for some time to
struggle with himself; at last he exclaimed, “Unhappy Indian, thou hast my pity!
and if from others thou hast nought to hope, from me thou hast nought to fear.”
Again he paused and sighed profoundly; and then, in a low voice, added,
“Farewell! Though I have but thrice beheld thy peerless beauty, I would have
placed the universe at thy feet, had I been its master; but the son of the royal
Daara cannot deign to struggle, in unequal rivalship, with an obscure and
unknown Christian wanderer. Yet still remember, should the imprudence of thy
Christian lover expose thee to the rage of Brahminical intolerance; or thy
apostacy call down thy nation’s wrath upon thy head; or should aught else
endanger thee; seek me where thou mayest, I promise thee protection and
defence.” Then, without directing a glance at the Missionary, he moved with
dignity away; and mounting a Tartar horse, whose bridle was thrown over the
trunk of a distant tree, he was in a moment out of sight. The Missionary,
overwhelmed, as if for the first time his secret were revealed even to himself,
stood transfixed in the attitude in which the Prince’s last speech had left him;
his arms were folded in the dark drapery of his robe; his eyes cast to the
earth; and in his countenance were mingled expressions of shame and triumph, of
passion and remorse, of joy and apprehension. Luxima too remained in the
suppliant attitude in which she had thrown herself at the Prince’s feet; not
daring to raise those eyes in which a thousand opposite expressions blended
their rays. Solyman had called the Missionary her _lover_; and this epithet, by
a strange contrariety of feeling and of prejudice, at once human and divine,
religious and tender, filled her ardent soul with joy and with remorse. The
affectionate, the impassioned woman triumphed; but the pure, the consecrated
vestal shuddered; and though she still believed her own feelings resembled the
pious tenderness of _mystic love_, yet she trembled to expose them even to
herself, and remained buried in confusion and in shame. A long and awful pause
ensued, and the silent softness of the twilight no longer echoed the faintest
sound; all around resembled the still repose of nature, ere the eternal breath
had warmed it into life and animation; but all within the souls of the solitary
tenants of shades so tranquil was tumult and agitation. At last, Luxima,
creeping towards the Missionary, in a faint and tender voice, pronounced the
dear and sacred epithet of “Father!” He started at the sound, and, turning away
his head, sighed profoundly. “Look on me,” said Luxima, timidly; “it is thy
child, thy proselyte, who kneels at thy feet; the wrath of Heaven is about to
fall heavily on her head; the gods she has abandoned are armed against her; and
the Heaven, to which thou hast lured the apostate, opens not to receive and to
protect her.” She took the drapery of his robe as she spoke, and wept in its
folds. She was struck to the soul by the cold resistance of his manner; and
beholding not the passions which convulsed his countenance, she guessed not at
those which agitated his mind. The instinctive tenderness and delicacy of a
woman, whose secret has escaped her, ere an equal confidence has sanctioned the
avowal of her love, was deeply wounded; and not knowing that man, who has so
little power over the mere impulse of passion, could subdue, confine, and resist
the expressions of his sentiments, she believed that the unguarded discovery of
her own feelings had awakened the abhorrence of a soul so pure and so abstracted
as the Christian’s; and, after a pause, which sighs only interrupted, she added,
“And have I also sinned against thee, for whose sake I have dared the wrath of
the gods of my fathers; and, in declaring the existence of that divine love,
enchanting and sublime, which thou hast taught me to feel, that mysterious
pledge for the assurance of heavenly bliss, by which an object on earth,
precious and united, yet distinct from our own soul, can----”

“Luxima! Luxima!” interrupted he, in wild and uncontrollable emotion, nor daring
to meet the look which accompanied words so dangerous, “cease, as you value my
eternal happiness. You know not what you do, nor what you say. You are
confounding ideas which should be eternally distinct and separate: you deceive
yourself, and you destroy me! The innocence of your nature, your years, your
sex, the purity of your feelings, and your soul, must save you; but I! I!--Fatal
creature! it must not be! Farewell, Luxima!--O Luxima! on earth at least we meet
no more!” As he spoke, he disengaged his hand from the clasp of hers, and would
have fled. “Hear me,” she said, in a faltering voice, and clinging to his robe;
“hear me! and then let me die!”

The Missionary heard and shuddered: he knew that the idea of death was ever
welcome to an Indian’s mind; and, that the crime of suicide to which despair
might urge its victim, was sanctioned by the religion of the country, by its
customs and its laws[9]. He paused, he trembled, and turning slowly round,
fearfully beheld almost lifeless at his feet, the young, the innocent, and
lovely woman, who, for his sake, had refused a throne; who, for his sake, was
ready to embrace death. “Let you die, Luxima?” he repeated, in a softened voice;
and seating himself on a bank beside her, he chased away with her veil, the
tears which hung trembling on her faded cheek--“Let you die?”

“And wherefore should I live?” she replied with a sigh. “Thou hast torn from me
the solace of my own religion; and, when I lose thee, when I no longer look upon
or hear thee, who can promise that the faith, to which thou hast won me from the
altars of my ancient gods, will remain to sooth my suffering soul? and, O
father! though it should, must I worship alone and secretly, amidst my kindred
and my friends; or, must I, by a public profession of apostacy, lose my cast,
and wander wretched and an alien in distant wilds, my nation’s curse and shame?
Oh! no; ’t were best, ere that, I died! for now I shall become a link between
thy soul and a better, purer state of things; spotless and unpolluted, I shall
reach the realms of peace, and a part of thyself will have gone before thee to
the bosom of that great Spirit, of which we are alike emanations. O father!” she
added, with a mixture of despair and passion in her look and voice, “’t were
best that _now_ I died; and that I died for _thee_.”

“For me, Luxima! for me!” repeated the Missionary, in a frenzied accent, and
borne away by a variety of contending and powerful emotions--“die for me! and
yet it is denied _me_ even to _live_ for thee!--And live I not for thee? O
woman! alike fatal and terrific to my senses and my soul, thou hast offered thy
life as a purchase of my secret--and it is thine! Now then, behold prostrate at
thy feet, one who, till this dreadful moment, never bent his knee to ought but
God alone; behold, thus grovelling on the earth, the destruction thou hast
effected, the ruin thou hast made! behold the unfortunate, whose force has
submitted to thy weakness; whom thou hast dragged from the proudest eminence of
sanctity and virtue, to receive the law of his existence from thy look, the hope
of his felicity from thy smile; for know, frail as thou mayst be, in all thy
fatal fondness, he is frailer still; and that thou, who lovest with all a
seraph’s purity, art beloved with all the sinful tyranny of human passion,
strengthened by restraint, and energized by being combated. Now then, all
consecrated as thou art to heaven; all pure and vestal by thy vows and life;
save, if thou canst, the wretch whom thou hast made; for, lost alike to heaven
and to himself, he looks alone _to thee_ for his redemption!” As he spoke, he
fell prostrate and almost lifeless on the earth: for two days no food had passed
his lips; for two nights no sleep had closed his eyes; passion and honour,
religion and love, opposed their conflicts in his mind; nature sunk beneath the
struggle, and he lay lifeless at the feet of her who had for ever destroyed the
tranquillity of his conscience, and rendered valueless the sacrifices of his
hitherto pure, sinless, and self-denying life. Luxima, trembling and terrified,
yet blessed in her sufferings, and energized by those strong affections which
open an infinite resource to woman in the hour of her trial, gently raised his
head from the earth and chafed his forehead with the drops which a neighbouring
lotos-leaf had treasured from the dews of the morning. He loved her; he had told
her so; and she again repeated in her felicity, as she had done in her despair,
“It were best that now I died!”

CHAPTER XI. Slowly restored to a perfect consciousness of his situation; to a
recollection of the fatal avowal, by which he had irretrievably committed
himself, and of the singular event which had produced it; the Missionary still
lay motionless and silent; still lay supported by the Neophyte which love alone
had given him. He dreaded a recovery from the partial suspension of all his
higher faculties; he shrank from the obtrusive admonitions of reason and
religion, and sought to perpetuate an apparent state of insensibility, which
gave him up to the indulgence of a passive but gracious feeling, scarcely
accompanied by any positive perception, and resembling, in its nature and
influence, some confused but delightful dream, which, while it leaves its
pleasurable impression on the senses, defies the accuracy of memory to recall or
to arrange it. His heart now throbbed lightly, for it was disburdened of its
fatal secret; his mind reposed from its conflicts, for it had passed the crisis
of its weakness in betraying it: he felt the tears of love on his brow; he felt
an affectionate hand returning the pressure of his; and a sense of a sacred
communion, which identified the soul of another with his own, possessed itself
of his whole being; and passion was purified by an intelligence which seemed to
belong alone to mind. Alive to feelings more acute, to a sensibility more
exquisite, than he had hitherto known; all external objects faded from his view
for the moment; life was to him a series of ideas and feelings, of affections
and emotions: he sought to retain no consciousness, but that of loving and being
loved; and if he was absorbed in illusion, it was an illusion which, though
reason condemned, innocence still ennobled and consecrated. Luxima hung over him
in silence, and her countenance was the reflection of all the various emotions
which flitted over his. The repose which smoothed his brow, communicated to hers
its mild and tranquil expression; her pulse quickened to the increasing throb of
his temples; and the vital hues which revisited his cheek, rosed hers with the
bright suffusion of love and hope. Fearing almost for his life, she bowed her
head to catch the low-drawn respiration, and returned every breath of renovating
existence with a sigh of increasing joy. “Luxima!” said a voice, which, though
low and tremulous, reached her inmost soul. “I am here, father!” she replied in
emotion, and bashfully withdrawing her arm from beneath a head which no longer
needed support. The Missionary took the hand thus withdrawn, and pressed it, for
the first time, to his lips. The modest eyes of the vestal Priestess sank
beneath the look which accompanied the tender act: it was the first look of love
acknowledged and returned; it penetrated and mingled itself with the very
existence of her to whom it was directed; it resembled, in its absorbing and
delicious influence, the ecstacy of enthusiasm, which, in the days of her
religious illusion, descended on her spirit to kindle and to entrance it; which
had once formed the inspiration of the Prophetess, and animated beyond the
charms of human beauty the loveliness of the woman. Turning away her glance in
timid disorder, she sought for resource against herself in the objects which
encompassed her: she threw up her eyes to that heaven, to whose exclusive love
she had once devoted herself, and, from a sudden association of ideas, she
turned them to the mouldering altar of the god whose service she had abandoned.
The religion of her spirit and of her senses, of truth and error, alike returned
with all their influence on her soul; and she shuddered as she looked on the
shrine where she had once worshipped with a pure, pious, and undivided feeling:
the moonlight fell in broken rays upon its shining fragments, and formed a
strong relief to their lustre in the massive foliage of a dark tree which shaded
it. The air was breathless, and the branches of this consecrated and gigantic
tree alone were agitated; they waved with a slow but perceptible undulation; the
fearful eyes of the apostate pursued their mysterious motion, which seemed
influenced by no external cause: they bowed, they separated, and through their
hitherto impervious darkness gleamed the vision of a human countenance! if human
it might be called; which gave the perfect image of Brahma, as he is represented
in the _Avatar_ of “the Destroyer.” It vanished--the moon sank in clouds--the
vision lasted but a moment; but that moment for ever decided the fate of the
Priestess of Cashmire! Luxima saw no more--with a loud and piercing shriek she
fell prostrate on the earth. The Missionary started in horror and amazement; the
form which now lay pale and lifeless at his feet, had, an instant before, by its
animated beauty rivetted his eyes, absorbed his thoughts, and engrossed his
exclusive attention, as half-averted, half-reposing in his arms, it had mingled
in its expression and its attitude the tender confidence of innocence and love,
the dignified reserve of modesty and virtue; still seeing no object but herself,
he remained ignorant of the cause of her emotion, and was overwhelmed by its
effects. He trembled with a selfish fondness for a life on which his happiness,
his very existence, now depended: he raised her in his arms; he murmured on her
ear words of peace and love. He threw back her long dark tresses, that the air
might play freely on her face; and he only withdrew his anxious looks from the
beauty of her pale and motionless countenance, to try if he could discover, in
the surrounding scene, any cause for a transition of feeling so extraordinary;
but nothing appeared which could change happiness into horror, which could tend
to still the pulse of love in the throbbing heart, or bleach its crimson hue
upon the glowing cheek. The moon had again risen in cloudless majesty, rendering
the minutest blossom visible: the stillness of the air was so profound, that the
faintest sigh was heard in dying echoes. All was boundless solitude and soothing
silence. The mystery, therefore, of Luxima’s sudden distraction was
unfathomable. She still lay motionless on the shoulder of the Missionary; but
the convulsive starts, which at intervals shook her frame, the broken sighs
which fluttered on her lips, betrayed the return of life and consciousness.
“Luxima!” exclaimed the Missionary, pressing the cold hands he held; “Luxima,
what means this heart-rending, this fearful emotion? Look at me! Speak to me!
Let me again meet thine eye, and hang upon thy voice--fatal eye and fatal voice
--my destruction and my felicity! still I woo and fear the return of their magic
influence. Luxima, if Heaven forbids our communion in happiness, does it also
deny us a sympathy in sorrow? Art thou to suffer alone? or rather, are my
miseries to be doubled in my ignorance of thine? Oh! my beloved, if conscience
speak in words of terror to thy soul, what has not mine to fear? It is I, I
alone, who should be miserable in being weak. Created to feel, thou dost but
fulfil thy destiny, and in thee nature contemns the false vow by which
superstition bound thee to thy imaginary god. In thee it is no crime to love! in
me, it is what I abhor no less than crime--it is sin, it is shame, it is
weakness. It is I alone who should weep and tremble; it is I alone who have
fallen, and whose misery and whose debasement demand pity and support. Speak to
me then, my too well beloved disciple; solace me by words, for thy looks are
terrific. O Luxima! give me back that soft sweet illusion, which thy voice of
terror dissipated, or take from me its remembrance; give me up at once to reason
and to remorse, or bid me, with one look of love, renounce both for ever at thy
feet, and I will obey thee! I!--Redeemer of the World! hast thou then quite
forsaken him whom thou didst die to save? Is the bearer of thy cross, is the
minister of thy word, abandoned by his Saviour? Is he so steeped in misery and
sin, that the spirit, which thy grace once enlightened, dares not lift itself to
thee, and cry for mercy and salvation? Is the soul, which was tempted to error
in its zeal for thy cause, to sink into the endless night prepared for the
guilty? Woman! fiend! whatever thou art, who thus by the seeming ways of Heaven
leadest me to perdition, leave me! fly me! loose thy fatal hold on my heart,
while yet the guilty passions, which brood there, have made me criminal in
thought alone.”

Luxima shuddered; she raised her drooping head from the bosom which recoiled
from supporting her, and she fixed on the agitated countenance of the Monk a
look, tender, and reproachful, even through the expression of horror and
remorse, which darkened its softness and its lustre. This look had all its full
effect; but Luxima shrunk back from the arms which again involuntarily extended
to receive and to support her; and, in a solemn and expressive voice, she said,
“It is all over!--ere that orb shall have performed its nightly course we shall
be _parted for ever_!”

The Missionary was silent, but horror and consternation were in his looks.
Luxima threw round her a wild and timid glance; then creeping toward him, she
said, in a low whispering voice, “Sawest thou nothing, some few minutes back,
which froze thy blood, and harrowed up thy soul?”

“Nothing,” he replied, watching, in strong emotion, the sad wild expression of
her countenance. “That is strange,” she returned, with a deep sigh, “most
strange!” Then, after a pause, she demanded, with a vacant look, “Where are we,
father?”

“Luxima! Luxima!” he exclaimed, gazing on her in fear and in amazement, “what
means this sudden, this terrific change? Merciful Heaven! does thy mind wander;
or hast thou quite forgotten thine own consecrated shades, the ‘_confluence of
the streams_,’ where first the Christian Missionary addressed the Priestess of
Brahma? Hast thou forgotten the altar of thy once worshipped god?”

At these words, emphatically pronounced, to steady her wavering recollection,
lightning from heaven seemed to fall upon the head of the apostate Priestess;
her limbs were convulsed, her complexion grew livid, she threw her eyes wildly
round her, and murmuring, in a low quick voice, a Brahminical invocation, she
sprung forward with rapid bound, and fell prostrate before the shrine of her
former idol. There the Christian dared not follow her: he arose, and advanced a
few steps, and paused, and gazed; then, wringing his hands in agony, he said,
“Happy in her illusion, she returns to her false gods for support and comfort,
while I, debased and humbled, dare not raise my eyes and heart in supplications
to the God of Truth.” As he spoke, he cast a look on the cross, which hung from
his rosary; but it was still humid with tears, which love had shed, it still
breathed the odours of the tresses the wind had wafted on its consecrated
surface. He shuddered, and let it fall, and groaned, and covered his eyes with
his robe, as if he sought to shut out the light of the Heaven he had offended.
When again he raised his head, he perceived that Luxima was moving slowly
towards him, not, as she had left him, in delirium, and in tears; but in all the
dazzling lustre of some newly-awakened enthusiasm; resembling in her motions and
her look the brilliant, the blooming, the inspired Prophetess, who had first
disturbed his imagination and agitated his mind, in the groves of Lahore;
extending her right hand to forbid his approach, she paused and leaned on the
branch of a blasted tree, with all the awful majesty of one who believed herself
fresh from a communion with a celestial being, and irradiated with the
reflection of his glory. “Christian!” she said, after a long pause, “the crisis
of human weakness is past, and the powers of the immortal spirit assert
themselves:--Heaven has interposed to save its faithless servant, and she is
prepared to obey its mandate: a divine hand has extended itself to snatch her
from perdition, and she refuses not its aid. Christian! the hour of sacrifice is
arrived--Farewell. Go! while yet thou mayest go, in innocence; while yet the arm
of eternal destruction has not reached thee. O Christian! dangerous and fatal!
while yet I have breath and power to bid thee depart, leave me! The light of the
great Spirit has revisited my soul. Even now I am myself become a _part of the
Divinity_.” As she spoke, her eyes were thrown up, and the whites only were
visible; a slight convulsive smile gleamed across her features; and she passed
her right hand from her bosom to her forehead with a slow movement. This
mysterious act seemed to bestow upon her a new sense of existence[10]. Her
religious ecstacy slowly subsided--her eyes fell--the colour revisited her cheek
--she sighed profoundly, and after a silent pause, she said,

“Christian, thou hast witnessed my re-union to the source of my spiritual being.
Oppose not thyself to the Heaven, which opens to receive me: depart from me;
leave me now--and for ever.”

“Luxima,” interrupted the Missionary, in the low wild accent of terror and
amazement; and perceiving that some delirium of religious fanaticism had seized
her imagination--“Luxima, what means this wondrous resolution, this sudden
change? Are all our powers alike reversed? Hast thou risen above humanity, or
have I fallen below it? And art thou, the sole cause of all my weakness and my
shame, to rise upon the ruin thou hast made, to triumph upon the destruction
thou hast effected? Part with me now! abandon me in a moment such as this! O
Luxima,” he added, with tenderness and passion, and in a voice soft and
imploring, “am I deceived, or do you love me?”

Luxima replied not, but her whole countenance and form changed their expression:
she no longer looked like an inspired sibyl, borne away by the illusions of her
own disordered imagination, but like a tender and devoted woman. She advanced;
she fell at his feet, and kissed with humility and passion the hem of his robe;
but when he would have raised her in his arms, she recoiled from his support,
and seating herself on a bank, at a little distance from him, she wept. He
approached, and stood near her: he saw in the rapid transitions of her manner,
and her conduct, the violent struggles of feeling and opinion, the ceaseless
conflicts of love and superstition; he saw imaged in her emotions the contending
passions which shook him to dissolution. He sighed heavily, and mentally
exclaimed,

“Alas! her virtue derives more strength even from error, than mine from truth:
she obeys her ideas of right as a Brahmin; I, as a Christian, violate and
forsake mine.” He turned his eyes on Luxima, and perceived that she was now
gazing with a look of exquisite fondness on him, tempered with something of
melancholy and sadness. “It is hard,” said she, “to look on thee, and yet to
part with thee! but who will dare to disobey the mandate of a _God_, who comes
in his _own presence to save and to redeem us_?”

“What mean you, Luxima?” interrupted the Missionary, in emotion, and throwing
himself beside her. “Hear me,” she returned; “_believe_, and _obey_.--From the
moment I first beheld thee, first listened to thee, I have ceased to be myself;
thy looks, thy words, encompassed me on every side; it seemed as if my soul had
anticipated its future fate, and already fled to accomplish it in thee. I felt
that, in ceasing to be near thee, I should cease to exist: therefore I concealed
from thee the danger which hung upon our interviews, and all that might lead
thee, for thine own sake or for mine, to withdraw from me the heaven of thy
presence--but the dream is over! the God whom thou didst teach me to abandon,
has this night appeared on earth to reclaim his apostate.”

“Luxima! Luxima!”

“Hear me, father! If I live, this night the vision of Brahma, the God whom I
forsook, appeared to me amidst the ruins of his own neglected altar!”

“Impossible! impossible!” exclaimed the Missionary vehemently. “Then,” she
returned, in a voice which resembled the heart-piercing accent of melancholy
madness, “then there lives some human testimony of our interview, and thou art
lost! thou, my soul’s own idol! Oh! then, fly--for ever fly: let me feel death
and shame but once, and not a thousand, thousand times through thy destruction.
But, no,” she added in a calmer tone; “it was no human form I saw; I have oft
before met that awful vision in my dream of inspiration! haply it came to warn
me of thy danger, and to save _my_ life through _thine_--then go, leave me while
yet I have power to say--_leave me_!”

The Missionary heard her in uncontrolled emotion; but without any faith in a
fancied event, which he deemed but the vision of her own disordered imagination,
influenced by the agitation of her feelings, by the hour, the scene, and by the
fanaticism and superstitious horrors which still governed her vacillating mind:
but he saw that there was evidently, at that moment, an obstinacy in her
illusion, a bigotry in her faith, it would be vain to attempt to dissipate or to
vanquish, until a calmer mood of thought and feeling should succeed to their
present tumultuous and unsettled state. Less surprised at the nature of her
vision, than at the peculiar result of its influence, he could not comprehend
the miracle by which she submitted to an eternal separation, at a moment when
his mind, broken and enervated, sunk under the tyranny of a passion which had
just reached its acmé. But he knew love only as a man, and could not comprehend
its nature in the heart of a woman:--with him the existing moment was every
thing, but her affection took eternity itself into its compass; and though she
could have more easily parted with her life than with her lover, yet she did not
hesitate to sacrifice her felicity to his safety, to his glory, and to the hope
of that eternal reunion which might await two souls, which crime had not yet
degraded; for her tolerant, but zealous, religion, shut not the gates of Heaven
against all who sought it by a different path; and consecrating a human feeling,
in ascribing to it an immortal duration, love itself enabled her to make the
sacrifice religion demanded. The Missionary sought not to subdue the influence
of that wild and fervid imagination, which now, he believed, held the ascendant;
but he sought to combat the resolution it had given birth to--and gazing on a
countenance, where the enthusiasm of religion still mingled with the expressions
of tenderness and passion, he said,

“Wondrous and powerful being! equally fatal in thy weakness and thy force, in
thy seducing softness, and resisting virtue: wilt thou now, thus suddenly, thus
unprepared, abandon me? now, that thou hast trampled on my religion and my vows;
now, that thou hast conquered my habits of feeling, my principles of thinking,
subdued every faculty of my being to thy influence, and bereft me of all, save
that long latent power of loving passionately--that tyrannic and dreadful
capability of an exclusive devotion to a creature frail and perishable as
myself, by which thou hast effected my ruin, and changed the very constitution
of my nature?”

“Oh, no!” returned Luxima, endeavouring to conceal her tenderness and her tears;
“oh, no! Part we cannot. Go where thou mayest, my life must still hang upon
thine! my thoughts will pursue thee. Indissolubly united, there is now but one
soul between us. But, O father! to preserve that soul pure and untainted--the
human intercourse, that dear and fatal symbol of our eternal union, ought, and
can, no longer exist; the voice of God and the law of man, alike oppose it: let
us not further provoke the wrath of both, let us remember our respective vows,
and immolate ourselves to their performance.” She arose as she spoke. The tears
stood trembling in her inflamed eyes, and that deadly sickness of the soul which
ushers in the moment of separation from all the heart holds dearest, spread its
livid hues over her cheek, its agony of expression over her countenance. “Woman!
woman!” exclaimed the Missionary, wildly, and seizing her trembling hands, “give
me back my peace, or remain to solace me for its loss; give me back to the
Heaven from which you have torn me, or stay, stay, and teach me to forget the
virtue by which I earned its protection. While yet a dreadful remembrance of my
former self remains, you dare not leave me to horror and remorse! You dare not,
cold, or cruel, or faithless, as you may be, you dare not say, ‘This moment is
our last.’ O Luxima! Luxima!”--Overcome by a sense of his weakness, he drooped
his head upon her hands, and wept. Had not the salvation of his life been the
purchase of her firmness and her resistance, Luxima would have granted to the
tears of love, what its ardour or its eloquence could now have obtained: but she
knew the danger of remaining longer, or of again meeting him in a place, where
they had either been discovered by the jealous guardians of her rigid order, or
from which they had been warned by a divine intimation. Mingling her tears with
his, after an affecting pause, she said, in a low voice, and scarcely articulate
from contending emotions,

“To-morrow, then, we shall again meet, when the sun sets behind the mountains:
but not here--not here! Oh, no! These shades have become fearful and full of
danger to my imagination. But if thou wilt repair to the western arcades of the
great banyan-tree, then----” The words died away on her trembling lips, and she
cast round a wild and timid look, as if some minister of Heaven’s mercy was near
to forbid an appointment, which might be, perhaps, pregnant with destruction to
both. “_And then_,” repeated the Missionary, with vehemence and with firmness,
“we meet to part _for ever_!--or--_to part no more_!”

Luxima, at these words, turned her eyes on him, with a look of love, passionate
and despairing--then, folding her hands upon her bosom, she raised those
eloquent eyes to Heaven, with a glance of sweet and holy resignation to its
will. This seraph look of suffering and piety operated like a spell upon the
frantic feelings of her lover. The arms, extended to detain her, fell back
nerveless on his breast. He saw her move slowly away, resembling the pensive
spirit of some innocent sufferer, whom sorrow had released from the bondage of
painful existence. He saw her light and perfect form, faintly tinged with the
moon-ray, slowly fading into distance, till it seemed to mingle with the fleecy
vapours of the night: then he felt as if she had disappeared from his eyes for
ever, and, turning to her image in his heart, he gave himself up to suffering
and to thought, to the alternate influence of passion and remorse. CHAPTER XII.
The habit of suffering brings not always with it the power of endurance; the
nerves, too frequently acted on, become morbid and less capable of sustaining
the pressure of a reiterated sensation; and the mind, no longer able to support
or to resist a protracted conflict, sinks under its oppression, or by some
natural impulse abandons the object of its painful cogitation, and finds relief
in the effort of seeking change. The Missionary had reached the crisis of
passion, the feverish paroxysm of long-combatted emotions. He had reached the
utmost limits of human temptation and human resistance, and shuddered at the
risk he had run and the peril he had escaped. He resembled a wanderer in an
unknown land, who reaches a towering and fearful eminence; who beholds at a
single glance the dangers he has passed, and those he has still to encounter;
and who endeavours to regulate his future course by the inferences of his past
experience. That wild delirium of the senses which left him an unpractised
victim to their tyranny, subsided in some degree with the absence of that tender
and enchanting object who distanced all that his fancy had ever dared to picture
of woman’s loveliness or woman’s love; and his mind, comparatively enabled to
think and to decide, with something of its former tone and vigour, gave itself
up to a meditation which had for its subject the consequences of that fatal
avowal by which he had so irretrievably committed his character and his
profession. The mysterious veil which the cold pure hand of religion had flung
over his feelings, was now for ever withdrawn, and the frailties of a being once
deemed infallible, the passions and weaknesses incidental to his nature as being
human, were not only exposed to himself, but were betrayed to others; and to the
followers of Brahma and Mahomet, the apostle of Christianity appeared alike
frail, alike subdued by passion and open to temptation, as he on whom the light
of revealed truth has never beamed. He felt that he had dishonoured the religion
he professed, by making no application of its principles to his conduct in the
only instance in which his virtue had been put to a severe test; and that the
doctrine of opinion had failed practically in its influence upon the interests
and feelings of self-love. He could no longer conceal from his awakened
conscience, that the proselyte his zeal had sought for Heaven, had become the
object of a human passion; of a passion, imprudent in the eye of reason,
criminal in the eye of religion; and which, in its nature and consequences, was
scarcely referable to any order, or to any state of society; for, by the
doctrines of their respective religions, by the laws and customs of their
respective countries, they could never be united by those venerated and holy
ties, which regulate and cement the finest bonds of humanity, and which obtain
from mankind, in all regions of the earth, respect and sanction, as being
founded in one of the great moral laws of nature’s own eternal code. No Brahmin
priest could consecrate an union, sacrilegious according to his habits of
thinking and believing. No Christian minister could bless an alliance formed
upon the violation of vows solemnly pledged before the altar of the Christian’s
God. If, therefore, human opinion was of moment to one, whose secret ambition to
obtain its favour had rendered even _religion_ subservient to its purpose; if
the habits, the principles, and the faith of a whole life, held any power over
conduct and action in a particular instance; if self-estimation were necessary
to the self-love of a proud and lofty character, between the Christian Priest
and Heathen Priestess was placed an insuperable bar, which if once removed,
risked their exposure to infamy and to shame in this world, and offered,
according to their respective creeds, eternal suffering in the next. But the
alternative was scarce less dreadful. In the first instance it was deemed
impossible, for it was immediate and eternal separation! Reason dictated,
religion commanded, even love itself, influenced by pity, admitted the terrific
necessity. Yet still passion and nature struggled, and resisted, with an energy
and an eloquence, to which the heart, the imagination, and the senses, devotedly
listened. Oh! it is long, very long, before the strongest mind, in obedience to
the dictates of prudence and of pride, can dismiss from its thoughts the object
of an habitual meditation, before it can strike out some new line of existence,
foreign to its most cherished sentiments and dearest views. It is long, very
long, before we can look calmly into the deserted heart, and behold unmoved a
dreary void, where late some image erected by our hopes, filled from the source
of pleasure, every artery with the tide of gladness. It is difficult for human
reason to argue away passion, by cold and abstract principles, and to substitute
the torpor of indifference for the pang of disappointment; but it is still more
difficult for human fortitude, though actuated by the highest human virtue, to
tear asunder the ties of love, in all their force and vigour, ere habit may have
softened their strength, or satiety relaxed their tension. To effect this sudden
breaking up of the affections, ere they have been suffered gently to moulder
away in the mild and sure decay of consuming time, the silent, certain progress
of mortal oblivion, some power more than human is requisite. On the luxurious
shores of the confluence of the streams, with the light of heaven dying softly
round them, the air breathing enjoyment, and the earth affording it, the
stoicism of the man would not perhaps have continued proof against the charms of
the woman. But in darkness, in solitude, and in silence, in a cavern cold and
gloomy, religion borrowed a superadded influence from the impression of the
senses; and at the foot of the cross, raised by his own hands in the land of the
unbelieving, and faintly illuminated by the chill pure rays of an approaching
dawn, that season of the day so solemn and so impressive, when passion slumbers,
and visions of fear and gloom steal upon the soul, did the Christian Missionary
vow to resign for ever, the object of the only human weakness which had
disgraced his sinless life. The vow had passed his lips; it was registered in
heaven; and nature almost sunk beneath the sacrifice which religion had exacted.
The great immolation resolved on, all that now remained to be effected, was to
fly from a spot which he had found so fatal to his pious views, and to pursue
the holy cause of the Mission in regions more favourable to its success; but the
energy of zeal was subdued or blunted, and a complexional enthusiasm, once
solely directed to the interests of Christianity, had now found another medium
for its ardour and activity. Scarcely knowing whither to direct his steps, he
mechanically inquired from a Goala, whom kindness that morning brought to his
grotto with some fruit, the road, which at that season, the caravan passing
through Cashmire from Thibet, usually took. The information he received tended
to facilitate his departure from Cashmire, for the caravan had halted in the
district of Sirinagur. To behold Luxima for the last time was now all that
remained! But the feelings of tenderness and despair, with which this trying
interview was contemplated, plunged him in all the pangs of irresolution;
vibrating between desire and fear, between the horror of leaving her, unprepared
and unexpecting their eternal separation, or of beholding her in love and in
affliction, expressing in her beautiful and eloquent countenance, the agony of
that tender and suffering heart which, but for him, had still been the asylum of
peace and happiness. At last, a day of conflict and of misery, alternately
devoted to an heavenly and to an earthly object, now passed in tenderness and
grief, and now in supplication and in prayer, hastened to its conclusion! The
sun had set--a few golden rays still lingered in the horizon, and found a bright
reflection on the snows which covered the mountains of Thibet. It was the hour
of _the appointed interview_! The Christian prostrated himself for the last time
before the altar, and invoked the protection of Heaven to support him through
the most trying effort of his life; to subdue the hidden “man of the heart,”
and, upon the ruins of a frail and earthly passion, to raise a sentiment of hope
and faith, which should point alone to that eternal recompense reserved for
those who suffer and who sustain, who are tempted and who resist. He arose,
sublimed and tranquillized, from the foot of the altar. Religion encompassed him
with her shield, and poured her spirit on his soul. He took from the altar the
Scriptural volume, and placed it on his bosom; and grasping in his right hand
the pastoral crosier, he paused for a moment, and gazed around him; then
proceeding with a rapid step, he passed, for the last time, the rude threshold
of a place which had afforded him so sweet and so fatal an asylum, which had so
often re-echoed to his sighs of passion, and resounded to his groans of
penitence. Yet once again he paused, and cast back his eyes upon this beloved
grotto: but the faded wreath of the Indian Priestess, suspended from one of its
projections, caught his glance. He shuddered. This simple object was fatal to
his resolutions--it brought to his heart the recollection of love’s delicious
dawn; the various eras of its successive and blissful emotions. But he wished to
meet _her_, on whose brow this frail memento had once exhausted its odours and
its bloom, as he had first met her, with eyes so cold, and thoughts so pure and
so free from human taint, that even Religion’s self might say, “A communion such
as this belongs to Heaven!” Yet he withdrew his eyes with a long and lingering
look, and sighed profoundly as he retreated. He reached the arcade of the
banyans, as the sunbeam reflected from the mountains threw its last light on a
dark bower of branches, beneath whose shade he beheld the Indian Neophyte. She
was kneeling on the earth, pale, and much changed in her appearance, and
seemingly invoking the assistance of Heaven with fervid devotion. No consecrated
flower bloomed amidst the dark redundancy of her neglected tresses. No
transparent drapery shadowed, with folds of snow, the outlines of her perfect
form: her hair, loose and dishevelled, hung in disorder round her; and she was
habited in the dress of a Chancalas, or _outcast_--a habit coarse and rude, and
calculated to resist the vicissitude of climate to which such unhappy wanderers
are exposed. A linen veil partly shaded her head: her muntras were fastened
round her arm with an idol figure of Camdeo: from the dsandam which encircled
her neck, was suspended a small cross, given to her by the Missionary; and those
symbols of faith and of idolatry expressed the undecided state of her mind and
feelings, which _truth_ taught by _love_, and _error_ confirmed by _habit_,
still divided--equally resembling in her look, her dress, and air, a Christian
Magdalene, or a penitent Priestess of Brahma. In this object, so sad and so
touching, nothing appeared to change the resolutions of the Missionary, but much
to confirm them. It was a fine image of the conquest of virtue over passion--and
the most tender of women seemed to set a bright example to the firmest of men.
Yet, when Luxima beheld him, a faint colour suffused her cheek, her whole frame
thrilled with obvious emotion. She arose, and extended her trembling hand--but
he took it not; for her appearance awakened sensations of love and melancholy,
which, when they mingle, are of all others the most profound; and casting down
his eyes, he said,

“I am come, my daughter, in obedience to thy commands, to behold thee for the
last time, and to give thee up exclusively to Him, whose grace may operate upon
thy soul, without the wretched aid of one so frail and weak as I have proved.
Thou wearest on thy breast, the badge of that pure truth which already dawns
upon thy soul. Take also this book--it is all I have to bestow; but it is all-
sufficient for thy eternal happiness.” He paused, and the emotion of his
countenance but ill accorded with the coldness of his words. Luxima took the
book in silence: something she would have said, but the words died away on her
trembling lips; and she raised her eyes to his face, with a look so tender, and
yet so despairing, that the Missionary felt how fatal to every resolution he had
formed, another such look might prove. Averting his eyes, therefore, and
extending his hands over her head, he would have spoken--he would have blessed
her--he would have said, “Farewell for ever!” but the power of articulation had
deserted him. Again he tried to speak, and failed; his lips trembled, his eyes
grew dim, his heart sickened, and the agonies of death seemed to convulse his
frame. Luxima still clung to his arm. Had the lifeblood flowed from her bosom,
beneath the sacrificial knife, her countenance could not have expressed more
acute anguish. He sought, by a feeble effort, to release himself from her grasp:
but he had not power to move; and the mutual glance which mingled their souls at
the moment they were about to part for ever, operated with a force they had no
longer power to resist. Faint and pale, Luxima sunk on his bosom. At that
moment, sounds came confusedly on the winds, and growing louder on the ear,
seemed to pierce the heart of the Indian. She started, she trembled, she
listened wildly; and then, with a shriek, exclaimed,

“So soon, so soon, does death overtake me. Now then, now, farewell for ever!
Leave me to die, and save thyself!” As she spoke, she would have fallen to the
earth, but that the Missionary caught her in his arms. All the powers of life
seemed to rush upon him; a vague idea of some dreadful danger which threatened
the object of his pity and his love, roused and energized his mind and nerved
his frame. He no longer reasoned, he no longer resisted. Obedient only to the
impulse of the immediate feeling, he bore away his lifeless charge in his arms,
and plunging into the deepest shades of the banyan, endeavoured to reach a dark
pile of towering rocks, whose sharp high points still caught a hue of light from
the west, and among whose cavities he hoped to find refuge and concealment. The
mists of evening had hid from his view a mighty excavation, which he now
entered, and perceived that it was the vestibule of an ancient Pagoda: its roof,
glittering with pendent stalactites, was supported by columns, forming a
magnificent colonnade, disposed with all the grand irregularity which Nature
displays in her greatest works, and reflecting the images of surrounding
objects, tinged with the rich and purple shade of evening colouring. This
splendid portico opened into a gloomy and terrific cavern, whose half-
illuminated recess formed a striking contrast to the exterior lustre. Pillars of
immense magnitude hewn out of the massive rocks, and forming an imperishable
part of the whole mighty mass, sustained the ponderous and vaulted ceiling:
receding in the perspective, they lost their magnitude in distance, till their
lessening forms terminated in dim obscurity, and finely characterized the awful
mystery of the impervious gloom. Idols of gigantic stature, colossal forms,
hideous and grotesque images, and shrines emblazoned with offerings, and dimly
glittering with a dusky lustre, were rudely scattered on every side. For the
Missionary had borne the Priestess of Brahma to the temple in which she herself
presided: the most ancient and celebrated in India, after that of Elephanta.
This sanctuary of the most awful superstition, worthy of the wildest rites of a
dark idolatry, was now wrapt in a gloom, rendered more obvious by the faint blue
light which issued from the earth, in a remote part of the cavern, and which
seemed to proceed from a subterraneous fire[11], which burst at intervals into
flame, throwing a frightful glare upon objects in themselves terrific. The
Christian shuddered as he gazed around him: but every thought, every feeling of
the lover and the man, was soon concentrated to the object still supported in
his arms, and who he believed and hoped, in this sad and lonely retreat, had
nothing to apprehend from immediate danger. Life again reanimated her frame, but
she was weak and faint, and an expression of terror was still marked on her
features. He placed her near a pillar, which supported her drooping form, and
flew to procure some water from a spring, whose gushing fall echoed among the
rocks; when the sound of solemn music, deep, sad, and sonorous, came upon the
wind, which at intervals rushed through the long surrounding aisles of the
cavern, disturbing with their hollow murmurs the deathlike silence of the place.
The Missionary listened: the sounds grew louder; they were no longer prolonged
by the wind; they came distinctly on the ear; they were accompanied by the echo
of many footsteps; and hues of light thrown on the darkness of the rocks, marked
the shadows of an approaching multitude. The Missionary rushed back to his
charge: she had raised her head from the earth, and listened with the air of a
maniac to the increasing sounds. “Unfortunate as innocent,” he said, encircling
her with his extended arms, “there is now, I fear, no refuge left thee but this.
O Luxima! thy danger has reunited us, and I am alike prepared to die for or with
thee.” As he spoke, a blue phosphoric light glanced on the idols near the
entrance of the Pagoda: it proceeded from a large silver censer, borne by a
venerable Brahmin, who was followed by a procession of the same order, each
Brahmin holding in his hand a branch of the gloomy and sacred ocynum, the symbol
of the dreadful ceremony of _Brahminical excommunication_. The procession, which
passed near the pillar, by whose deep shadow the unfortunate victims who thus
had rushed upon destruction, stood concealed, was closed by the venerable Guru
of Cashmire; he was carried in a black palanquin, and his aged countenance was
stamped with the impress of despair. The Brahmins circled round the
subterraneous fire, each in his turn flinging on its flame the leaves of the
sandaltree and oils of precious odour. The kindling flames discovered on every
side, thrones, columns, altars, and images; while the priests, dividing into two
bands, stood on each side of the fire, and the Guru took his place in the centre
of his disciples. All now was the silence of death, and the subterraneous fire
spread around its ghastly hues: the chief of the Brahmins, then prostrating
himself before the shrine of Vishnu, drew from his breast the volume of the
sacred laws of MENU, and read the following decree, in a deep and impressive
voice: “Glory be to Vishnu! who thus speaks by the mouth of his Prophet
Menu[12]. He who talks to the wife or the widow of a Brahmin, at a place of
pilgrimage, in a consecrated grove, or at the confluence of rivers, incurs the
punishment of guilt; the seduction of a guarded Priestess is to be repaid with
life: but if she be not only guarded, but eminent for good qualities, he is to
be burnt with the fires of divine wrath!” At these words the solemn roll of the
tublea, or drum of condemnation, resounded through the temple; and when the
awful sound had died away in melancholy murmurs, two Brahmins coming forward,
made their depositions of the guilt of the chief Priestess of the temple. They
deposed, that, passing near the sacred grove which led to the pavilion of the
Priestess, they observed issuing from its shades the Mogul Prince Solyman--that,
induced by their zeal for the purity of their sacred order, they repaired at the
same hour on the following evening to the place of her evening worship, where
they had discovered the Brachmachira, not indeed as they had expected, with the
worshipper of Mahomet, but with a Frangui or Impure, who had already endeavoured
to seduce some of the children of Brahma to abandon the God of their fathers;
that they found her supporting the infidel in her arms--a circumstance
sufficient to confirm every suspicion of her guilt, and to call for her
excommunication, or forfeiture of cast. The sanctity, the age and reputation of
the Brahmins, gave to their testimony a weight which none dared dispute. It was
now only reserved for the Guru to pronounce sentence on his granddaughter. He
was supported by two Yogis. A ghastly and livid hue diffused itself over his
countenance; and in his despairing look were mingled with the distracted
feelings of the doting parent, the superstitious horrors of the zealous Priest.
Thrice he essayed to pronounce that name, hitherto never uttered but with
triumph; and to heap curses upon that beloved head, on which blessings and tears
of joy had so often fallen together. At last, in a low, trembling, and hollow
voice, he said,

“Luxima, the Brachmachira of Cashmire, Chief Priestess of the      Pagoda of
Sirinagur, and a consecrated vestal of Brahma, having      justly forfeited
cast, is doomed by the word of Brahma, and the law      of Menu, to become a
Chancalas, a wanderer, and an outcast upon      earth!--with none to pray with
her, none to sacrifice with her,      none to read with her, and none to speak
to her; none to be allied      by friendship or by marriage to her, none to eat,
none to drink,      and none to pray with her. Abject let her live, excluded
from all      social duties; let her wander over the earth, deserted by all,
trusted by none, by none received with affection, by none treated      with
confidence--an apostate from her religion, and an alien to her      country,
branded with the stamp of infamy and of shame, the curse      of Heaven and the
hatred of all good men[13].”

The last words died on the lips of him who pronounced them; and the unfortunate
grandsire fell lifeless in the arms of his attendants. The conch, or religious
hell, was then blown with a blast so shrill and loud, that it resembled the
sound of the last trump; the tublea rolled, and was echoed by endless
reverberations; hideous shouts of superstitious frenzy mingling their discordant
jar, ran along the mighty concave like pealing thunderbolts, until gradually
these sounds of terror fainted away in sobbing echoes; and the awful procession
departed from the temple to the same solemn strains, in the same order in which
it had entered it. All was again silent, awful, and gloomy; like the night which
preceded creation, or that which is to follow its destruction. The subterraneous
fires still faintly emitted their flame above the surface of the earth, and
threw their mystic light on the brow of the excommunicated Priestess. She lay
lifeless on the earth, where she had fallen during the conclusion of the
ceremony of her excommunication, with a shriek so loud and piercing, that the
horrid crash of sounds, which at that moment filled the Pagoda, could alone have
drowned her shrill and plaintive voice, or prevented the discovery of her
situation to the ministers of the temple. The Missionary knelt beside her,
watching, in breathless agony, the slow departure and fading sounds of the
procession. When all was still, he turned his eyes on the Outcast; he saw her
lying without life or motion, cold and disfigured, and, save by him alone,
abandoned and abhorred by all. Thus lost, thus fallen, he beheld her in a place
where she had once received the homage of a deity: he saw her an innocent and
unoffending victim, offered by himself, by his mistaken zeal and imprudent
passion, on the altar of a rigid and cruel superstition: his brain maddened as
he gazed upon her, for he almost believed her tender heart had broken its life-
chords, under the pressure of feelings and sufferings beyond the power of human
endurance; and, in this dreadful apprehension, all capability of thought or
action alike deserted him. Alike bereaved of reflection or resource, alike
destitute of effort or energy, he remained mute, agonized, and gazing on the
object of his tenderness and his despair. At last a sigh, soft, yet convulsive,
breathed from the lips of Luxima, and seemed to operate on his frame like
electricity: it was a human sound, and it dispelled the dead-like silence of all
around him; it was the accent of love and sorrow, and his heart vibrated to its
respiration. He raised the sufferer in his arms; he addressed to her soothing
murmurs of love and pity, of hope and consolation. At the sound of his voice,
she raised her eyes, and gazed, with a look of fear and terror, round her, as if
she expected to meet the forms, or to hear the voices, of the awful ministers of
her malediction; but the moment which succeeded was cheaply purchased, even by
its preceding horrors. She turned back her languid eyes in despair, believing
herself abandoned alike by Heaven and earth, but she fixed them in transport on
him who was now her universe; her whole being received a new impulse from the
look which answered to her own. “Thou art safe! thou art near me!” she
exclaimed, in a sobbing accent; and, falling on his shoulder, she wept. Some
moments of unbroken silence passed away, devoted to emotions too exquisite and
too profound to be imaged by words. Where a true and perfect love exists, there
is a melancholy bliss in the sacrifices made for its object; and the tender
Indian was now soothed, under her affliction, by the consideration of him for
whose sake she had incurred it: for to suffer, or to die, for him she loved, was
more precious to her feelings, than even to have enjoyed security and life,
independent of his idea, his influence, or his presence. But equal to sustain
her own miseries, she was overpowered by the fate which remotely threatened him;
and in a moment when her affection rose in proportion to the peril he risked for
her sake, she resolved on the last and greatest sacrifice the heart of woman
could make to effect his safety, by again urging his flight, and resigning him
for ever. Gazing on him, therefore, with a melancholy smile, which love and
agony disputed, she said, “My father and my friend! a creature avoided and
abhorred by all, labouring under the curse of her nation and the wrath of
Heaven, has no alternative but to submit to a fate, which she can neither avert
nor avoid: but for thee, who hast incurred the penalty of a crime, of which thou
art innocent, and which thy pure soul abhors, a life of safety and of glory is
yet reserved. A law, which seems dictated by cruelty, is always reluctantly
executed by the gentle and benevolent Hindus; and they shudder to take the life
which they yet forbear not to render miserable. Provoke not then their wrath by
thy presence, but fly, and live for those most happy and most blessed, who shall
meet thy looks and hang upon thy words. For me, my days are numbered--sad and
few, they will wear away in some trackless desert; where, lost to my cast, my
country, and my fame, death, welcome and wished for, shall yet find my soul
wedded to one deathless bliss, the bliss of knowing I was beloved by thee.” As
she spoke, her head drooped on the trembling hands which were clasped in hers;
her tears bathed them. A long and an affecting pause ensued. A thousand
feelings, opposite in their nature and powerful in their influence, seemed to
struggle in the bosom of the Missionary: a thousand ideas, each at variance with
the other, seemed to rush on and to agitate his mind. At last, withdrawing the
hand which trembled in hers, and with the look and voice of one whose soul,
after a long tumultuous conflict, is wound up to unalterable resolution, he
said, “Luxima, I am a Christian, and a priest, and I am bound by certain vows to
Heaven, from the observance of which no human power can absolve me; but I am
also a man; as such, led by feeling, impelled by humanity, and bound by duty, to
aid the weak and to succour the unfortunate:--but when I am myself the cause of
sorrow to the innocent! of affliction to the unoffending!--O Luxima!” he
passionately added, “lost to thee for ever, as lover or as husband, thinkest
thou that I can also abandon thee as pastor and as friend? Hast thou then, my
daughter, the courage to leave for ever the temples of thy God, and the land of
thy forefathers? Art thou so assured of thyself and of me, as to follow me
through distant regions, to follow me as my _disciple only_; to take up the
cross of Christianity, and to devote what remains of thy young and blooming life
exclusively to Heaven? Luxima, wilt thou follow me to Goa?”

“Follow _thee_?” wildly and tenderly repeated the Indian. An hysteric laugh
burst from her lips, a crimson blush rushed over her face, and again deserting
it, left it colourless. “Follow thee! O Heaven! _through life to death_!”

The Missionary arose: he averted his eyes from the fatal eloquence of hers: he
paced the temple with an unequal but rapid step; he seemed wrapt in thoughts
wild and conflicting. At last, turning to Luxima, he fixed his eyes on her face,
and said, with a voice firm, solemn, and impressive, “Daughter, it is well! from
this moment I am thy guide on earth to heaven--no more!”

“No more!” faintly repeated Luxima, casting down her looks and sighing
profoundly. Then, after a short pause, the Missionary extended his hand to raise
her; but suddenly relinquishing the trembling form he supported, he moved away.
Luxima, with a slow and feeble step, followed him to the entrance of the temple;
but, as they reached together the extremity of the cavern, the blue light of the
subterraneous fire flashed on an image of Camdeo, her tutelar deity. She
started, involuntarily paused before the idol, and bowed her head to the earth.
The Missionary threw on her a glance of severe reproof, and, taking her hand,
would have led her on; but this little image had touched on the chord of her
most profound feelings, and awakened the most intimately associated ideas of her
mind. “Father,” she said, in a timid supplication of look and voice, “forgive
me; but here, in this spot, no less an idol than that at whose shrine I bow--my
nation’s pride and sex’s glory--here did I devote myself to Heaven; and becoming
the Priestess of mystic love, here did I renounce, by many a sacred vow, all
human passion and all human ties.”

“Luxima,” he replied, still leading her on, “such as were thy vows, such _are_
mine; let us alike keep them in our recollection, and renew them in our hearts.
O my daughter! let us more than tacitly renew them in our hearts; let us
together kneel, and----”

“_But not here, father!_” tremulously interrupted Luxima, looking fearfully
round her--“not here!”

“No,” he replied, and shuddered as he spoke, “not here!”

In silence, and with rapid steps, they passed beneath the frowning and gigantic
arch, which hung its ponderous vault above the threshold of the Pagan temple; to
its impervious gloom, its mysterious obscurity, succeeded the sudden brightness
of the moonlight glen, in whose lovely solitudes the awful pile reared its
massive heights, to intercept the rising, or catch the parting beam of day. Here
the proscribed wanderers paused; they listened breathlessly, and gazed on every
side; for danger, perhaps death, surrounded them: but not a sound disturbed the
mystic silence, save the low murmurs of a gushing spring, which fell with more
than mortal music from a mossy cliff, sparkling among the matted roots of
overhanging trees, and gliding, like liquid silver, beneath the network of the
parasite plants. The flowers of the Mangoosten gave to the fresh air a balmy
fragrance. The mighty rocks of the Pagoda, which rose behind in endless
perspective, scaling the heavens, which seemed to repose upon their summits,
lent the strong relief of their deep shadows to the softened twilight of the
foreground. “All is still,” said the Missionary, pausing near the edge of the
falling stream, and relinquishing the hand he had till now clasped; “all is
still, and spirits of peace seem to walk abroad, to calm the tumult of human
cares, to whisper hope, and to inspire confidence. My daughter, eternity is in
these moments. The brief and frail authority of man, reduced to its own
insignificance, holds no jurisdiction now, and the spirit ascends free and
fearless to the throne of its Creator.” The Missionary stood gazing on the
firmament as he spoke, his soul mingling with the magnificent and sublime
objects he contemplated; then, turning his eyes on Luxima, he was struck with
the peculiar character of her air and person. She looked, as she stood at a
little distance, half hid in the mists of shade, like some impalpable form,
which imaged on the air the spirit of suffering innocence, in the first moment
of its ascent to heaven. Her head was thrown back, and a broken moonbeam,
falling through the trees, encompassed it with a faint glory: the tears of human
suffering had not yet dried upon her cheek of snow; but it was the only trace of
human feeling visible: her soul seemed to commune with him of whom it was an
emanation. “Luxima,” said the Missionary, approaching her, “the moment of thy
perfect conversion is surely arrived: in spirit thou belongest to Him who died
to save thee; be then his also by those rites, which, in a place like this, he
thought it not beneath him to receive, from the hands of one by whom he was
preceded, as the star of the morning ushers in the radiance of the rising sun. O
my daughter! ere together we commence our perilous and trying pilgrimage, we
have need of all the favour which Heaven’s mercy can afford us, for we have much
to dread, from others and ourselves; let then no tie be wanting which can bind
us faster to virtue and religion. Luxima, innocent and afflicted as thou now
art, pure and sublime as thou now lookest, feelest thou thyself not worthy to
become a Christian in form as in faith?”

“If _thou_ thinkest me not unworthy,” she replied, in a low voice, “that which
thou art, I am willing to be.”

The Missionary led her forward, in silence, to the edge of the spring, and
blessing the living waters as they flowed, he raised his consecrated hands, and
shed the dew of salvation upon the head of the proselyte, pronouncing, in a
voice of inspiration, the _solemn sacrament of baptism_. All around harmonized
with the holy act; Nature stood sole sponsor; the incense which filled the air,
arose from the bosom of the earth; and the light which illuminated the ceremony,
was light from heaven. A long and solemn pause ensued; then the Missionary,
clasping and holding up the hands of Luxima in his, said, “Father, receive into
thy service this spotless being; for to thy service do I consecrate her.”

A beam of religious triumph shone in the up-turned eyes of the Missionary. The
conversion of the Priestess of Brahma was perfected, and human passion was
subdued. “Daughter of heaven!” he said, “thou hast now nothing to fear; and I,
on this side eternity, have nothing to hope.” As he spoke the last words, an
involuntary sigh burst from his lips, and he turned his eyes on the Christian
vestal; but hers were fixed upon the Pagoda, the temple of her ancient devotion.
Her look was sad and wild; she seemed absorbed and overwhelmed by the rapidity
of emotions which had lately assailed her. “Let us proceed,” he said, in a
softened voice, “if thou be able; let us leave for ever the monument of the dark
idolatry which thou hast abjured.” As he spoke, he took her arm to lead her on;
but he started, and suddenly let it fall, for he found it was encircled with the
muntra, or Brahminical rosary, from which the image of Camdeo was suspended.
“Luxima,” he said, “these are not the ornaments of a Christian vestal.”

Luxima clasped her hands in agony; the tears dropped fast upon her bosom; and
she fell at his feet, exclaiming, in a voice of tenderness and despair, “Oh!
thou wilt not deprive me of these also? I have nothing left now _but these_!
nothing to remind me, in the land of strangers, of my country and my people,
save only these: it makes a part of the religion I have abandoned, to respect
the sacred ties of nature; does my new faith command me to break them? This
rosary was fastened on my arm by a parent’s tender hand, and bathed in Nature’s
holiest dew--a parent’s tender tears: hold not the Christians relics, such as
these, precious and sacred? Thou hast called thy religion the religion of the
heart; will it not then respect the heart’s best feelings?” A deep convulsive
sob interrupted her words; all the ties she had broken pressed upon her bosom,
and the affections of habit, those close-knit and imperishable affections,
interwoven, by time and circumstance, with the very life-nerves of the heart,
bore down for the moment, every other passion. The Outcast, with her eyes fixed
upon the religious ornaments of her youth, wept, as she gazed, her country,
parents, friends--“and would not be comforted.”

The Missionary sighed and was silent: he sighed to observe the strong influence
of a religion, which so intimately connected itself with all the most powerful
emotions of nature and earliest habits of life; and which, taking root in the
heart, with its first feelings, could only be perfectly eradicated by the slow
operation of expanding reason, by the strengthening efforts of moral perception,
or by the miraculous effects of divine grace, and he was silent; because, the
appeal which the tender and eloquent Indian made to his feelings, found an
advocate in his breast it was impossible to resist. Instead, therefore, of
reproving her emotion, he suffered himself to be infected by its softness, and
mingled his tears with hers. The grief of Luxima subsided in the blessed
consciousness of a sympathy so precious, so unexpected; and love’s warm glow
dried up the tear, which the grief of natural affection shed on the cheek of the
Outcast. “Thou weepest for me,” she said, chasing away the trembling drops which
hung in her up-turned eyes; “and in the indulgence of a selfish feeling, I
hazard thy safety and thy life! That cruel, that accusing Brahmin, who has
watched my steps to my destruction, whom I mistook last night for the vision of
that God he too zealously serves--may he not even now lurk in these shades; or
may he not, when we are vainly sought for in our respective asylums, seek us
here?--O my father! forgive these tears. But it was the tenderness of him who
lately cursed me; it was my aged grandsire, whom I have dragged to death and
covered with shame (for something of my infamy must light on all my kindred); it
was he who, with the morning’s dawn, sent me the tidings of my approaching fate,
and bade me fly and shun it: he would not see, he would not hear me; nor dare he
breathe my name, but to heap curses on my head. But for this timely tender
warning I should have else been hunted, like some noxious reptile, to wilds and
wastes, there to die and be forgotten. All day I lay concealed amidst the shades
of the impervious banyan, to wait thy coming with the evening sun, to bid thee a
last farewell, and urge thee to save thyself by an immediate flight; but by a
miracle, wrought doubtlessly by thy God for thee, that which seemed to lead us
to destruction, became the wondrous mean of preservation; and we found safety
where we could only hope for death.”

“Luxima,” said the Missionary, “let us believe that He, who alone could save us,
still extends around us the shelter of his wing. Let us, while yet thou hast
strength, fly these fatal shades. Behind those pine-covered rocks, which the
moon now silvers, there lies, I know, a deep and entangled glen, which, I have
heard, is held in superstitious horror, and never approached by pious Hindus.
This glen leads to Bembar, by many a solitary path, made to facilitate the march
of the caravan from Thibet to Tatta, at this season of the year[14]. It was but
yesterday, some straggling troops, belonging to the caravan, passed through the
valley, and halted at no great distance hence, to traffic with the Cashmirian
merchants: these, as they often halt, we may overtake in some lone way, out of
the view of thy intolerant countrymen.” While he spoke, they had proceeded on,
and reached the entrance to a ravine in the rocks, which, dark and tremendous,
seemed like a closing chasm above their heads, threatening destruction; but,
when they had reached its extremity, they found themselves in a delicious glen,
through whose trees were discernible the crescent banners of the Mogul camp; and
the sky-lamps, which marked the outposts of the midnight guards. At this sight,
the prophetic warning and generous offers of the gallant Solyman rushed with
equal force to the minds of the wanderers; but both remained silent--Luxima,
from an instinctive delicacy, which mocked the refinement of acquired sentiment;
the Missionary, from a feeling less laudable and less disinterested. Both
involuntarily turned their eyes on each other, and suddenly withdrawing them,
changed colour; for, in spite of the awful vows since made, and the virtuous
resolutions since formed, the hearts of each throbbed responsively to the
dangerous recollection of that fatal scene, to which the unexpected presence of
the Mogul Prince had given birth. Ere the mild and balmy night had passed its
noon, the weary proselyte, exhausted equally from fatigue of mind and body, felt
that she would be unable to proceed, if she snatched not the invigorating
refreshment of a short repose. The Missionary, with tender watchfulness, was the
first to observe her faltering steps, and sought out for her a mossy bank,
cradled by the luxuriant branches of a mango-tree; and, withdrawing to a little
distance, he at once guarded her slumber and gave himself up to meditate on some
precise plan for their future pilgrimage; which, if they could overtake the
caravan, whose track they had already discovered, would be attended with but few
difficulties. Yet he dared no longer seek “the highways and public places,” to
promulgate his doctrines, and to evince his zeal. Withheld less by a principle
of self-preservation than by his fears for the safety and even life of his
innocent proselyte; he also felt his enthusiasm in the cause weakened, by the
apparent impossibility of its success; for he perceived that the religious
prejudices of Hindostan were too intimately connected with the temporal
prosperity of its inhabitants, with the established opinions, with the laws, and
even with the climate of the country, to be universally subverted, but by a
train of moral and political events, which should equally emancipate their minds
from antiquated error, in which they were absorbed, and which should destroy the
fundamental principles of their loose and ill-digested government. He almost
looked upon the Mission, in which he had engaged, as hopeless; and he felt that
the miracle of that conversion, by which he expected to evince the sacred truth
of the cause in which he had embarked, could produce no other effect than a
general abhorrence of him who laboured to effect it, and of her who had already
paid the forfeit of all most precious to the human breast, for that partial
proselytism, to which her affections, rather than her reason, had induced her.
Yet, when he reflected that he should return to Goa, the scenes of his former
triumphs, followed only by one solitary disciple, and that disciple a young and
lovely woman, his mind became confused, and he trembled to dwell on an idea
fraught with a thousand mortifying and cruel recollections. The dawn had already
beamed upon his harassing vigils, when Luxima stood before him, resembling the
star of the morning, bright in her softness, the mists of a tender sadness
hanging on the lustre of her looks. The Missionary was revived by her presence;
but the sweet and subtle transport, which circulated through his veins, as he
gazed on the being who now considered him as her sole providence, he endeavoured
to conceal beneath a tranquil coldness of manner, which the secret ardour of his
feelings, the delicacy of his situation, and the pure and virtuous resolutions
of his mind, alike rendered necessary and laudable. As they proceeded, he spoke
to her of the plans he had devised, and of his intention of placing her in a
religious house when they arrived at Goa. He spoke to her of the false religion
she had abandoned, and of the pure faith she had embraced. Luxima answered only
by gentle sighs, and by looks, which seemed to say, “Whatever may be my future
destiny, I am at least _now_ near you.”

The Missionary sought to avoid these looks, which, when they met his eye, sunk
to his heart, and disturbed his best resolutions; for never had his Neophyte
looked more lovely. Supported by a white wand, which he had formed for her, of a
bamboo, she moved lightly and timidly by his side, like the genius of the sweet
and solitary shades, in which they wandered. The course of the rivers, the
variation of the soil, and the beacons held out to them by the surrounding
mountains, with whose forms they were well acquainted, were their guides; while
the milk of the young and luscious cocoa-nut, the cheering nectar extracted from
the pulp of the bilva-fruit, and the rice, and delicious fruits, which on every
side presented themselves, afforded at once nutrition and refreshment[15].
Sometimes catching, sometimes losing, the faint track of the caravan, the
conviction of increasing safety, and the certainty of overtaking it at Bembar,
left them scarcely a fear, and scarcely a hope, on the subject. For to wander
through the lovely and magnificent valley of Cashmire, was but to loiter amidst
the enjoyments of Eden; and to proceed by each other’s side--to catch the half-
averted eyebeam, which penetrated the soul--to observe the sudden glow which
mantled on the cheek--to participate in the same blissful feeling, and yet to
heighten, by submitting it to the same pure sense of virtue, was a state of
being too exquisite not to obliterate, in its transient enjoyment, the memory of
the past and the apprehension of the future. Restrained and reserved even in the
intimacy of their intercourse, they sought to forget the existence of a passion
it was now so dangerous to cherish. The Missionary was regulated by religion and
by honour; the Indian, by sentiment and by instinctive delicacy. Solicitude
tempered by reserve, tenderness blended with respect, distinguished the manner
of the Priest. Modesty, which shrunk from the appearance of intrusion; and
bashfulness, trembling to betray the feelings it guarded, marked the conduct of
the Neophyte. Silent, except on subjects of religious sublimity, a look,
suddenly caught and as suddenly withdrawn, alone betrayed their dangerous
secret. They were frequently parted during the ardours of the day, which
prevented their continuing their journey; and sometimes, when the night-dews
fell heavily, the guardian Priest sought out for his weary charge a grassy
couch, where the madhucca had spread its downy leaves; or where a luxurious and
perfumed shade was afforded by the sephalica, whose flowers unfold only their
bloom and odour to the sighs of night, and droop and wither beneath the first
ray the sun darts o’er their fragile loveliness: while _he_, not daring, even by
a look, to violate the pure and seraph slumber of confiding innocence, waked
only to guard her repose; or slept, to woo to his fancy the dream, which too
often, in illusive visions, gave to his heart her whom waking he trembled to
approach. When they arose, the twilight of the dawn conducted them to the
respective bath, which innumerable springs afforded; and, when again they met,
they offered together the incense of the heart to Heaven, and proceeded on their
pilgrimage. The path they had taken was so sequestered, that they seldom risked
discovery; but when, amidst the haze of distance, they observed a human form, or
caught a human sound, they plunged into the umbrage of the surrounding shades,
until the absence of the intruder again gave them up to solitude and silence. It
was in moments such as these only, that the high mind of the Missionary felt
that it had forfeited its claim to the independence which belongs to unblemished
rectitude, and that the Indian remembered she was an alien and an Outcast. THE
END OF VOL. II. S. GOSNELL, _Printer, Little Queen Street, London_. FOOTNOTES:

[1] The new Emperor Aurengzebe had scarcely mounted his throne near Delhi, when
he was alarmed with intelligence of the march of Solyman Sheko, by the skirts of
the northern mountains, to join his father, Daara, at Lahore.--Dow, 286. [2] The
Brahminical hell. [3] Saint Catherine de Genes. [4] It is thus Brahma is
represented in his avatar of divine wisdom. [5] Paraubahzah Vushtoo, or First
Cause. [6] The Indian Cupid is frequently represented armed with a flash of
lightning. [7] Gungee, the presiding deity of the Ganges: she has eight vestal
attendants, which personify the eight principal rivers in Hindoostan. [8]
Flowers have always been the tasteful medium for the eloquence of Eastern love:
like the Peruvian quipas, a wreath, in India, is frequently the record of a
life. [9] To quit life, before it quits them, is among the Hindus no uncommon
act of heroism; and this fatal custom arises from their doctrine of
metempsychosis, in which the faith of all the various casts is equally implicit.
[10] This mystery is called the _Matricha-machom_. The Brahmins believe that the
soul is thus conducted to the brain, and that the spirit is re-united to the
Supreme Being. [11] The vapour of naphtha which issues through the crevices of
the earth, is supposed to be the cause of the flame which is sometimes observed
in India. At Chittagong is a fountain which bursts into flame, and which has its
tutelar deities and presiding priests. When it is purposely extinguished, it
rekindles spontaneously. [12] See translation of the Laws of Menu, by Sir
William Jones. [13] Such is the form of the Indian excommunication. [14] “Selon
les témoignages de tous les Katchmeriens, on voyoit partir chaque année de le
pays plusieurs caravans.”--_Voyages de_ BERNIER. [15] “Il faut surtout
considérer que l’abstinence de la chair des animaux est une suite de la nature
du climat.”--_Essai sur les Mœurs des Nations, &c. &c. &c._