CHAPTER I

I was sitting in an arm chair with my feet upon the hand rail of the verandah--
very much at my ease--when Major Bullbeggor rode around the bend of the turnpike
and came into view. I watched him lazily and noted the action of his mare's hind
feet as she threw little jets of dust off to either side. The jets mingled
together and formed a yellow cloud in the rear, through which could be seen the
grinning teeth of Snake in the Grass, the Major's nigger, who always acted as
his body-servant. Snake was mounted ungracefully upon an old spavined clay bank,
and he came loping along some three or four fathoms behind his master. The sky
was cloudless and the warm sunshine appeared to annoy the Major. I was so
comfortable, sitting there with the buzzards soaring in silent circles overhead
and listening to the small birds singing in the shrubbery on the lawn, that I
had just made up my mind to hail the horseman and ask him to accept the
hospitalities of Judkins' Hall--and all who have been anywhere in the state know
the reputation of my house--when the single-footing mare turned sharply from the
main road and came loping up the carriage drive toward me. I might as well tell
you now, that the Judkinses were never of a nervous or excitable temperament.
Even the first Richard Judkins, Earl of Belldon, and viscount Ansley, was noted
for his cool and calculating disposition. But if you think I am overstepping the
bounds of courtesy by dwelling too much upon the characteristics of my family, I
will say that I only do so for fear someone may hear this who is a stranger in
the colonies, and who might, therefore, get a wrong impression of the manners
bred in and taught to a Virginia gentleman. As I said before, I am not nervous;
so I sat calmly watching the Major and his servant until they halted within ten
feet of the soles of my shoes. "Good morning, Major!" I cried, "How are you to-
day? Jump down and come in!" And with that I took down my feet and rose to greet
him. The Major's face seldom relaxed its grave expression, although he had a
sympathetic eye, but this day he looked more stern and military than ever. His
dress added to this effect, for he now appeared for the first time in the
uniform of Woodford's irregulars, with a long, straight sword dangling from his
broad belt. He stroked his pointed, tuft-like beard which hung from the end of
his chin, and twirled his long, grey moustaches, while his eyes looked from one
object to another as if searching for something. Then he saluted, saying, "Is
there a Prince George county nigger about here, Mr. Judkins?" Snake in the Grass
bent forward in his saddle, and I noticed a thin, rod-like contrivance rise from
the back of his coat collar and lift off his hat, replacing it again the instant
he sat up straight. "Yes, sir, there is. Here, Sam!" I cried, and my boy stepped
out from behind a corner of the house and stood attention. "If there is,"
continued the Major, "he can hold my horse a few moments while Snake, there,
takes up my left stirrup a hole or two. It is an outrage the way some saddles
are built, and I'm certain this one will be the death of me yet. It has already
given me trouble in my left knee joint." I gave a look at Sam who sprang to the
Major's bridle--and I might say here, that for an all-around good nigger, my boy
Sam was hard to beat. He stood six feet one inch on a pair of ham like feet and
weighed two hundred weight. He was a black, big-limbed, bullet-headed, broad-
faced, hog-nosed nigger of the pure Guinea breed, and he came from the best
stock in Prince George's--but that goes without saying, for the Major would
rather have seen his favorite mare struck with a whip than in care of any other
but a Prince George nigger. "Well, sir, how do you feel, and what is the news
to-day?" I asked, as I stepped down from the verandah and shook his hand when he
had dismounted. It was always the custom to ask Major Bullbeggor how he felt,
for although he was only fifty, or but little over twice my age, he always
appeared to be suffering very much. "I feel a little better than I did last
week," he answered, "but I have some pains shooting all through me, sir. Yes,
sir, a pain, now and then, a shooting all through me. I've been taking Miranda
Jones' spring medicine, but it don't seem to do me much good. I'm quite certain
there's a settling in my joints, coupled with a numbing of the nerves and
twitching of the scalp. Dr. McGuire bled me twice last week and drenched me
three times--but no matter, a soldier has no time to devote to talking about his
physical sufferings, even if they are unwarranted. News I have, unless you have
seen Roger Booker to speak to while he was riding an express to the assembly at
Richmond." "No!" I answered, "I've not seen Booker since last May, when he went
with you to help organize some of the colonial companies. But what has happened?
No more of that rioting and massacre like the affair of Concord and Lexington, I
hope?" The Major walked slowly up the steps and seated himself comfortably in
the arm-chair I had just occupied, and then waited patiently until I drew up a
chair and was seated. I saw he had some important news, but, of course, was not
discourteous in my haste to find it out. The Major had served through the entire
French war with Colonel George Washington, and was a man of the most pronounced
military method in all things. It would have been showing a gross disregard for
his training had I even suggested that he should hurry and tell me what was
uppermost in his mind, before he had thought carefully upon the proper manner
and time for doing so. For himself, he was most punctilious, at all times, in
his manner and address to gentlemen of his own rank and station. He was
sometimes truculent of speech, but he even went so far into the matter of
politeness and good breeding that when his trusty body servant, Snake in the
Grass--he always had a humorous way of naming his people--forgot to bow properly
and remove his hat on one or two occasions, he had the rod-like contrivance
rigged upon the slave's back which lifted and replaced his hat as I have
described. The idea that Snake was a lazy, shiftless nigger, never entered the
Major's head. Snake may have been a good servant, but for my part, I've always
stuck to the old method of training one's people and have seen more than one
Prince George county nigger all the better for a little dressing with a small
hickory switch; especially when extenuating his circumstances. My cousin, Will
Byrd, who was a few years my senior, came out of the house on hearing us
talking, and, after greeting the Major, had a small table brought within easy
reach. Upon this was placed a bottle of brandy, some sugar, ice and sprigs of
young mint. The Major sat there silently stroking his beard while Will mixed the
beverage, nor did he even offer my cousin a suggestion, knowing well the mixture
that had been famous in Judkins' Hall ever since the days my grandfather and
Lord George Fairfax honored its roof. But because we held our English ancestry
dear, and observed their customs, don't think that we were rank tories. Will and
I had both been friends of Lord Dunmore, before he started his aggressive
policy, but since then we had had little to do with him. We also held aloof from
the too radical followers of Mr. Patrick Henry. That is, from all except Major
Bullbeggor. The Major had been my father's friend, and since his death had
always been a welcome visitor at the Hall, even though he had helped to raise a
company sent to Boston, and had joined Colonel Woodford's militia. Berkley
Harrison and Captain Barron were in the breakfast room talking to my mother and
sister. They had just finished lunch. Harrison was an outspoken tory who lived
upon the adjoining plantation, and who, though only thirty years of age, was one
of the richest planters on the James river. My mother had a high regard for his
many accomplishments, for he had lived much in England, and had the bearing of a
man who had seen something of the life at His Majesty's court. Therefore Will
and I were anxious to hear what important news the Major had to tell before
anyone else joined us, for we were afraid lest his radical views should reach
the ears of Mr. Harrison. When the Major put down his glass he looked at us, and
it was strange to note the effects of the liquor in the old soldier's face.
Every line, from the heavy creases about his square jaw to the fan-like wrinkles
that stretched away from the corners of his eyes, seemed to stand out more
clearly. His eyes brightened and he spoke with great feeling--

"Gage's men stormed the hill defenses at Boston last week, and carried them by
assault," he said. "The devil," said Will. "And then what happened?" I asked,
jumping from my chair. "What could happen with a lot of yokels against regular
troops, hey? What could happen? But," he added, and his eyes fairly flashed,
"our boys made a fine stand, sir. Yes, sir, stood there on Bunker Hill 'till the
last dram of powder was burned, and the scoundrels were running in and jabbing
them with the bayonet. Yes, sir, by Gad, sir, they have the making of the finest
men in them that ever stood up to be killed." "I wish I had been there," said
Will. "Wish thunder!" roared Bullbeggor, half rising from his chair. "What's the
use of wishing! Why don't you do something besides lying around here and
wishing. Holy thunder! If I was your age I would have been there in the thick of
it with our company of Prince George boys. Wish to thunder!" And the old soldier
reached for the bottle. "That is as may be," remarked Will, quietly, referring
to the Major's imaginary military movements. "Wish smoke and blazes!" growled
the old fighter, putting down his empty glass. "If it wasn't for this settling
in the bones and numbing of the joints, and having pains shooting all through
me, to say nothing of a vertigris in the head when I stoop over, I'd have gone
up there with the boys. As it is, I'll do what I can against that rascal
Dunmore,--and stay here with Woodford _toe_ do it." "But give us the details of
the Boston fight," I urged. "That's all I know," he answered. "I met Booker
riding an express to Richmond, and he told me just what I've told you. I think
you and Will here would be welcome at Woodford's--if you don't want to go so far
from home--and he will give you enough fighting before the year is out. But
isn't that Berk Harrison's voice I hear? He's hand and glove with Phripps and
Dunmore, and, perhaps, he would not care to hear my sentiments on the affairs of
the day." "Old Captain Barron is in there with him," said Will, motioning with
his hand toward the room. "It's nearly two, so they ought to be through
breakfast and be out in a few minutes." "There isn't a better soldier than old
Barron alive, although he places too much value in the small sword and pistol--
two worthless weapons for real fighting--Ah!" At this instance the figure of
Berk Harrison appeared, issuing from the window of the breakfast room, which
being cut level with the floor within enabled anyone to walk out on the
verandah. He was closely followed by Captain Barron and my sister, Mary.
Harrison was dressed with his usual care, wearing a buff waistcoat and snowy
ruffles. Although he had slept in the Hall over night, he had not appeared in
the breakfast room until after I had finished my midday meal. He wore his hair
carefully queued, and his lean, smooth face, with its arched eyebrows, aquiline
nose, and thin, straight lips, bespoke the cynical man of the world--and also of
fierce passion. There was a hard glint in his eyes the instant they were
directed toward the Major, but the glance softened a little when he noticed me.
"Good morning, Major Bullbeggor," he said, advancing toward the old soldier, who
rose to greet him. "How are you, sir, this morning?" "Pretty well, thank you,
sir; yes, sir, pretty well, considering a little settling of the bones I
probably got by riding too long yesterday--Ah! Good morning, Miss Judkins." And
then he shook hands with my sister and Barron. The Captain and he had served
together and were old friends. "Always well and hearty, Barron, eh?" he cried.
"You see, Miss Judkins, the difference time makes with men. Here's Barron
sitting around all the time with the ladies as young as he was twenty years ago,
and just look at me--a perfect wreck, yes, Miss, a perfect wreck. I shouldn't
wonder if he began to think of getting married next--if he only had a pension,
eh." "My face ought to be worth a thousand a year to any woman," laughed Barron,
drawing up a chair, while Mary stepped down from the verandah to pet the Major's
mare and have a word with his strangely attired nigger, Snake in the Grass.
"Your face, indeed, ought to be worth that, Barry," continued the Major, smiling
at him thoughtfully, "but it is a question that might admit of some diversity of
opinion among women, in comparing it to the relative value of affections." "It
is strange that women should put such a value on such things as affections,"
said Harrison, smiling at me, "but self esteem is to be commended in the sex."
Barron laughed heartily, as he always did when jokes were made at his expense.
He always laughed at, and took a light view of, everything, and it was this that
made him so popular with the young people, for he was, physically, the ugliest
man on the river. He refused to wear any hair except his own, which consisted of
two little red tufts just over his ears. These latter stuck out from the sides
of his head like a pair of fans. His face was full, bronzed and rugged featured,
and absolutely hairless, and his mouth curled up at the corners in a perpetual
smile. His great, red nose was almost purple, and its color, he claimed, had
cost him much time and money to develop. He was short and stout, but always wore
the baggiest of brown homespun breeches. "Women are not the only persons who
like comfort," said he, and the Major, very thoughtfully, passed him the bottle.
"No, no," he cried, motioning away the liquor, "I never drink at this time of
day, and very little now at all. Only a bracer or two when I rise, then another
before eating, along with two or three in the late afternoon--and a couple
before dinner--and--well, I'll take just one, if you insist." "Its easy to see
that Barron's heart lies in his stomach," said the Major. "There's an old
woman's saying that 'to win a man's esteem, you must feed the brute.'" "And,
likewise, to win a woman's, 'dress the animal,'" laughed Barron. "But what was
the news, Major, from Boston? I thought I overheard you say something about a
fight," asked Harrison. "He did," said Will. "Gage's men carried Bunker Hill by
assault, last week. But he says the Virginia boys fought well and gave the
reddies all they wanted." "They did that, and Woodford's men will give Dunmore
about the same, if he doesn't bear a hand and leave," interrupted the Major
sententiously. "You don't say!" laughed Barron, raising his glass. "Well, here's
to the army of Virginia, and may it reap much benefit from the Major and his
combination of Christian men." "And have reason to give thanks that they'll be
in no worse condition than that which they find themselves," muttered Harrison,
putting down his untouched glass. "They'll be damned lucky if they're not." "Oh,
well, it is hardly necessary to be profane about it," said the Major, quietly.
Barron smacked his huge lips and smiled blandly, then murmured softly--

"And when they pawned and damned their souls      They were but prisoners on
paroles." "An apt quotation," snapped Harrison ill-humoredly. "You don't look as
if you were much given to poetry, especially Butler's." "An angel is sometimes
disguised as a devil," laughed Barron. "But never as a soldier," said Harrison,
dryly. "Nor as a fop," growled Bullbeggor, "which the same might be said of some
people who dress to appear like gentlemen, but about whom there might be some
diversity of opinion among men." And he looked straight before him. "Your wit is
coarse, and if you mean that for me, I'll say you are damned insolent," said
Harrison with some energy. "Oh, hold on!" said Will. "The Major did not mean
that for you," I said quietly, advancing toward Harrison, who stood leaning
against a pillar of the verandah. "He never makes rude remarks to anyone," I
continued, trying to pacify his rising anger, "and he simply meant the _vice
versa_ of Barron's jest." "I don't overstep the rules of politeness very often,"
said the Major, slowly, "but I don't believe in fitting all cases to a set of
rules. It is better sometimes to make a rule to fit a case, such as this, for
instance. If Mr. Harrison thinks I made the remark for the purpose of comparing
him to an angel, he is most unaccountably satisfied with his personal appearance
and certainly flatters himself, but if so, he is welcome, and be damned to him.
I'll give him whatever redress he wishes at any time. Only I'd rather take it
out of his friend, Dunmore, if--"

"Hold on, Major! You forget yourself," cried Will, placing a hand on his
shoulder. "I'll see that you make good your words to-morrow morning, old as you
are," said Harrison, now white to the lips with passion. And he walked away and
down the steps, meeting my sister Mary, who had just heard the raised voices and
had turned to see what had happened. "Why do you waste time talking to those old
men," I heard her say as they walked together down the path which led to the
grove of live oaks that separated the estates. But he appeared not to answer, so
I knew there was trouble ahead. "Harrison has horrible taste to get angry at
such an old fellow as you," laughed Barron. "Also a pretty clever opinion of his
presence." "I am old, Barry, sure enough, but I can't abide a man who lives in a
country as a gentleman and then fights against it. I've got these pains shooting
all through me and considerable twitching of the skull, but I'll meet him, sir;
yes, sir, I'll meet him to-morrow morning if I'm alive. I offer you my humblest
apology, Mr. Judkins, for being party to a scene on your verandah, but you heard
what he said in regard to soldiers, sir; yes sir, you heard what he said." And
the Major reached for the bottle, while I entered the house to leave again by a
side door and follow Harrison to do what I could to pacify him. Will Byrd was
living with us, so I felt sure he would keep Barron and the Major in good humor
until I came back. Mary met me on the pathway leading to Harrison's. She had
just left him and was much upset at his temper. "I don't see why you have these
old duffers come up here and make trouble," she said. "Captain Barron is bad
enough by himself, but when that horrid old Major Bullbeggor and he get
together, they just sit around to drink and make trouble. It's only an hour's
ride to his place and I don't see why Sam can't help Snake take him home." "My
dear sister," I said, "you know the traditions of Judkins' Hall. The Major
shall, therefore, always be a welcome visitor. He is a good soldier, and the
time will come--if it is not here already--when Virginia will need just such
men. We cannot put up with Dunmore's violence any longer, and if Berk Harrison
can't understand this the sooner we see less of him, the better it will be for
us all." "Good soldier! Huh!" she cried, with a pretty toss of her head. "If
Virginia depends on such men for soldiers, my lord Dunmore will soon settle the
disturbance. Good soldier, indeed! Why it was only last week he and Captain
Barron were sitting up drinking and telling their abominable adventures, and
they were anything but a soldier-like kind. Poor Mrs. Bullbeggor overheard them
and has threatened to get a divorce. Snake said she had hysterics, and kept
screaming that her husband was fit for nothing but paying bills. Good soldier,
indeed!" And Mary went into the house with an air of indignation that would have
done credit to a queen--or a Judkins. I went over to Harrison's, but on the way
I couldn't help wondering if this power to pay bills, which Mary held in such
high disdain in the Major, was not just a little attractive in young Harrison.
Women have strange methods of reasoning out the proper way to look at things.
Harrison declined to see me, at first, but after I had sat out two cigars on his
verandah, he appeared. He refused to listen to any peaceful overtures that I
advanced, and I wasted all the afternoon and evening trying to settle matters
without a meeting. His friend Phripps dined with him and afterwards left with a
formal challenge to the Major, requesting a meeting at sunrise the next morning.
I left Harrison at about nine in the evening, after an uncomfortable meal, with
the feeling that trouble was in store for the Major. On reaching the Hall, I
found dinner over and the Major and Barron in bed. The Major had requested
Barron to act for him and had accepted the challenge. They had settled upon a
spot down on the river shore, and all who know the James will remember how flat
and smooth the shore is at this bend. The fact that there was to be a meeting
had been kept secret from my mother and sister, for even Mary did not think the
last words she had overheard meant anything dangerous, but, in spite of this, it
was easy to see that the house servants suspected something was wrong. My mother
gave me a lecture about the advisibility of taking her advice, and also how to
treat the Major. She really liked the old soldier, in spite of his
eccentricities, but wished, also, to avoid offending Harrison. I forget now just
what the advice was, but, as a matter of course, had I taken it, all must have
ended well, for time and again afterwards have I heard her affirm this--so also
has she in regard to other matters. I walked out on the cool lawn under the
bright stars, and then around the house, hoping to find Will who had stepped
over to the stables. I met him as he was coming back and together we walked
around behind the slave quarters, discussing the affair of the Major's and also
the gloomy outlook of war in the colonies. The news of Bunker Hill had affected
both of us greatly. As we passed an angle of the house we heard voices. "Is yo'
sho' nuff a Prince Gawge nigger?" said one. "Dat I is, honey, sho'; an' I's de
nigger uf er Prince Gawge man," answered the other. "Kin he stan' agin Marse
Berk?" "Doan make no moan, honey, dere'll be bluddy murder an' suddin demise in
der mawnin'." CHAPTER II

Just before daybreak I was suddenly aroused by the violent movements of the
Major, who occupied a room next to mine. The bell-cord was pulled viciously for
some moments, and this was followed by hoarse exclamations. Finally someone
answered the bell and knocked at the Major's door. A deep grunt followed and the
door was partly opened. "Are yo' a Prince George nigger?" asked the Major,
sleepily. "No sir!" "Then git out and send me one right away." The door closed,
a short period of silence followed, which was suddenly broken by more violent
pulls at the bell cord. Then I thought I recognized Sam's footsteps sounding
softly along the hall, and the door opened again. "Are yo' a Prince George
nigger?" grunted the Major. "I is sir," came Sam's answer. "Then for the Lord's
sake take a look around and tell me where I am at." "You'se right heah, Major.
Right heah, sah." "I thought so," said the Major with a satisfied sigh, and as
the door closed again a long drawn snore told plainly that he had relapsed into
peaceful sleep. I was too much aroused, by this time, to sleep any more, so I
lay awake thinking of the possible dangerous outcome of the meeting that would
soon take place. Soon I heard footsteps again approaching along the corridor,
and I was then aware that Barron and Will Byrd were approaching the Major's
room. It was barely daylight, but I jumped up and dressed and made my way into
the room to join them. The Major was still undressed. He sat on the edge of the
bed and appeared so nervous that he could hardly put on his clothes. This amused
Barron very much. "It's no use, Barry! you know the old saying about the dogs'
hair being good for his bite," said the Major, throwing down his clothes. "Gimme
some of the hair, and I'll see if this twitching of the bones and numbing of the
nerves don't hold off a bit. Lord! I didn't drink anything last night to amount
to anything. I was just a little tired out riding over from Pendletons." Barron
poured out a good, stiff drink of brandy, and the Major gulped it down without
winking. Then a most remarkable change came over the old fighter's grizzled
features. He jumped up, and in less time than it takes to tell of it, he had his
clothes on, and was just buckling on his sword belt, when Barron stopped him.
"Now, Bull, whoever heard of fighting a duel in such a rig," he cried. "Take it
off, man. Byrd has the tooth-picks for this work," and he pointed to a couple of
rapiers, wrapped carefully in cloth, that Will carried under his arm. The Major
looked from one to the other of us. "Fight a duel!" he cried in astonishment.
"Who in the name of six sons of Hayman is going to fight a duel?" and he
forthwith strapped on his sword-belt. Barron burst into a fit of laughter.
"Never mind, come along with us. But where on earth, Bull, did you think we were
bound for at this hour in the morning?" "Think!" roared Bullbeggor, "I know I'm
going to ride to Williamsburg and report to Colonel Woodford. Think thunder."
Will looked a little disgusted, but said nothing, and I led the way softly down
the corridor and out the back way without awakening my mother or sister. The
Major looked about him with blinking, sheeny eyes for his mare. Not seeing her,
he started for the stables, calling out lustily for Snake in the Grass. Barron
seized him by the arm and stopped him. "Bull," he cried laughing, "you've made
an appointment to meet Harrison, and he is waiting to get a clip from you down
on the shore. Don't make any more racket, but come along before you wake up the
household." I must say, I was somewhat disgusted with the Major's behavior, so I
spoke out, telling him he would have to meet his man. "Meet him!" he bawled,
turning on me fiercely. "Of course I'll meet him." Then he turned toward the
stable. "Snake!" he cried, as his nigger appeared, "Get the mare ready, for I'll
be through in a few minutes. Lead the way, Mr. Judkins. Meet the devil!" I then
led the way down to the river bank, just as the rising sun tipped the tree tops
with golden light. The shore in the bend was very flat and sandy, being overhung
partly with great, sweeping willows. As we neared the spot fixed upon we were
aware of the presence of Harrison and Phripps. They were standing under a large
tree and appeared to be much absorbed in conversation. As we approached them
they turned about, and Phripps advanced, holding a pair of small swords in one
hand and a case containing pistols in the other. Will and the Major stood aside
and Phripps, Barron and myself proceeded to arrange the details of the meeting.
It was decided to fight the affair with swords, until one or the other of the
combatants was completely disabled, and I must say that Phripps was fair enough
in the matter. He measured the weapons and gave Barron the choice, after which
he took the one left and started toward Harrison, who had strolled down on the
river shore to where the sand was hard and firm. I might say here, that I was
not at all unfriendly toward Harrison, and that I only took part in the affair
after I had done everything in my power to settle matters peaceably. It required
nice discernment, in those days, for a man to make up his mind whether he was a
tory or not, and it was more because I sympathized with the Major's political
ideas, than anything else, that I took any part in the matter at all. As it was,
I acted as I had acted several times before in such cases; that is, as referee
or judge, while Barron and Phripps were seconds to their respective men. Will
Byrd simply acted as a spectator. It was a perfect spot for a meeting. The tall
sweeping willows for a background on the low bluff-like bank, and the water
sparkling in the sunshine beyond the shadow. The sand of the shore was firm and
flat, and there was plenty of room, as it was now nearly low water. I marked a
spot and gave the signal for the men to take their places. I introduced the
Major to Phripps and bade Barron hand him his weapon quickly to avoid
unnecessary delay, for I knew his habits of inquiry. "Mr. Phripps, your mother
was a Robinson, I believe, if I remember correctly," said he, as Barron passed
him the hilt and cast off his sword belt. "I never met her as a girl," snapped
Phripps, impatiently. "The more honor to her," replied the Major, quietly, as he
flashed out his heavy broadsword. "No fear," he continued, as Phripps reached
hastily for the pistol case, "I'll attend to you some other time. I have to do
with Dunmore's heel dog first." I took up a pistol and cocked back the flint.
"You know the penalty, Major. Take your place and weapon," I said. He looked
steadily at me for a moment, his eyes gleaming with a strange light. Then he
answered:

"This is a weapon I've used for some years past, Mr. Judkins, and it is the only
one I will use in this quarrel. If no one cares to meet me my mare is waiting to
carry me to more important matters. Take the devil!" he growled deeper, "I'll
take the stiffening out of somebody." "Don't disturb him on my account," spoke
Harrison. "Let him use his weapon and talk less. I make no objection to it at
all. I am ready." And he took his position. I looked at Phripps, but he nodded
approval; so I gave the word to begin. I heard Barron laugh out some remark at
the Major's expense, as the men stood on guard for an instant. Then the fight
began. As I said before, I had already seen some sword play and indifferent
marksmanship on that beach, but this affair was most uncommon. The men were at
it fiercely as the weapons fell across. Harrison, with gleaming eyes and a sneer
of contempt on his lips, thrust and lunged past the broad blade of the Major's
with cat like quickness. But to no purpose. The Major, holding his heavy
broadsword as lightly as a rapier before him, with its scabbard held high in his
left hand behind his back to keep it from his knees, turned each attack by a
slight, strong turn of the wrist. His face was grave and calm, but as I watched
him, the gradual tightening of the muscles in his lean, bronzed jaws showed that
either the strain was beginning to tell on his wind, or else his temper was
rising rapidly. However, he refrained from attempting the stroke I knew must
soon be made, unless Harrison jabbed him. The morning was warm and soon the
perspiration was pouring down the faces of the men. Harrison eased up a moment
to note his effect on the Major, and seeing that he was keeping him in hand,
pressed forward again with vigor. Backward went the Major, giving ground slowly
in a circle, while that look of surprise I have seen on more than one man's
face, when suddenly confronted by grave danger, spread slowly over his streaming
features. Harrison was getting white and waxy about the lips, and his breath
came in loud rasping gasps, but his eye was like the glint of steel as he
pressed fiercely on. I have never seen a better swordsman. His wrist began to
tire, but he instantly passed his hilt to his left hand and then came on harder
than ever. I looked at Barron and saw the smile go from his face as the Major
circled backward past him. The old soldier's left hand was holding his scabbard
lower and lower, until finally he dropped it entirely. Then Harrison saw his
time had come for the finish. Quick as thought he passed his hilt to his right
hand again, for the final thrust through the Major's wavering guard. Then
happened the most uncommon thing about the whole affair. It was done so quickly
my eyes could hardly follow it, although I was standing but a few paces away and
looking directly at the men. As Harrison passed his hilt to his right hand, the
Major's weapon fell to the right of him with his foot still advanced, and as
Harrison lunged strongly, the Major's broadsword rose and fell with a wicked
"swish." Harrison's sword passed neatly through the Major's shoulder and
protruded fully a foot behind him, while the old soldier's weapon struck
Harrison fairly on the head and stretched him limp on the sand. The heavy blade
had struck close to the hilt, as he had lunged forward, otherwise it must have
bitten in as deep as the eyes. As it was the blow was bad enough, and we rushed
in to see what could be done for him. It was several minutes, however, before he
opened his eyes and showed any signs of life. While we worked to stanch
Harrison's wound and revive him, the Major walked off a short distance and sat
himself on the edge of the low, bluff-like bank beneath a willow. He then
carefully stripped off his new uniform before Barron or Byrd thought of leaving
Harrison to come to his assistance, tied up the rapier thrust, and prepared to
move along in the direction of the Hall with his sword belt slung carelessly
over his arm. When Harrison's wandering gaze met him his strength came back
suddenly, and it was all Barron and I could do to hold him in check. He insisted
that he should continue the engagement and Byrd's outspoken objections only
inflamed him the more. The Major suddenly glanced back and saw what had
happened, so he halted while Phripps ran toward him. "The affair is not quite
over, if you please, sir," said Phripps as he approached. "Isn't, eh!" grunted
Bullbeggor, drawing his sword and throwing the scabbard aside. "Then if you can
prove that your gentility consists in something more than a love for horses and
dogs--and women, you can get your hand to some weapon." And with that he came
quickly forward. "After Mr. Harrison has finished with you, we can go further
into the matter with some advantage," said the second, motioning with his hand
towards his principal. But Harrison's strength was unequal to the occasion. He
no sooner stood alone than he wavered, staggered, and then pitched forward on
his face in a dead faint. Phripps quickly ran to him and raised his head while I
poured some brandy between his lips. The Major stood silent and motionless
before the group, his sword point resting upon the toe of his boot and his hands
crossed over the hilt. A strangely grave and thoughtful expression shone on his
rugged face, now perfectly calm from the heat and excitement of the fray; and as
I watched him he appeared to me a poor duellist, and a man to whom self was not
the all important realization in life. I went toward him and held out my hand.
He took it in an absent minded way and turned at the sound of approaching
footsteps behind him. I looked over his shoulder just as Snake broke through the
fringe of willows, leading the Major's mare by the bridle. "I suppose he isn't
hurt badly, Mr. Judkins," said Bullbeggor, looking at his limp adversary. "But
even if he is, I don't believe I can do much for him. I thank you, sir, for your
hospitality and fairness. I must go along now, for I'm due at Williamsburg
before night." "You certainly will come back to the Hall and let us fix you up a
little, Major. You certainly must feel a little shaken from that puncture. It
may be more dangerous than you believe," I said. "Not at all, sir. Not at all. I
have had Dr. McGuire bleed me twice as much in the last month. I do feel a
slight twitching of the bones and a sort of dead feeling in the nerves, but
besides a few pains shooting in and out, I'm all right. Then there is
Pendleton's tavern at the cross-roads a mile beyond the bend, and you remember
the old rake keeps good bottled stuff. No fear, I'll be all right. But I will
take a small drink with you, Barron and Byrd, just to show there's no hard
feeling." Harrison had begun to show signs of returning consciousness, so Barron
and Will left his side and came forward a pace or two. The flask was passed
around and then, in spite of Barron's protests to the contrary, the Major
insisted on carrying out his plans as he had already intended. He buckled on his
sword belt and mounted his powerful mare, while Snake plunged into the bushes
and reappeared a moment later mounted and ready to follow his master. His black
face was showing in marked contrast to the white gleam of his huge mouthful of
teeth, and it was evident that he had viewed the fight from some unseen point on
the river shore and was well pleased with the result. We raised Harrison and
carried him in the direction of the Hall. In a few minutes he revived and looked
about him for the Major. Not seeing him, he insisted on walking the remaining
distance to the house on foot and we finally allowed him to attempt it. Just as
we crossed the road, opposite the driveway, I saw Snake in the distance turn
sharply in his saddle as we came into view. Then, through the dust cloud that
almost instantly swallowed him up, I noticed his head bend outwards and his
white cap rise and fall in an ungraceful bow. CHAPTER III

The second day after this meeting we were at breakfast, sitting somewhat stiffly
at the table, when my boy Sam, whom Mary had just sent over to Harrison's to
find out how he did, brought a note in answer, saying that he had almost
entirely recovered and hoped to have the pleasure of meeting her that morning.
Barron and Will were still staying at the Hall and we had all been somewhat
reserved in manner in spite of the old Captain's jests. Although there had been
no serious outcome to the affair, a meeting of that kind, no matter how common
the occurrence, always makes women a little distant and cold in manner to the
parties concerned. This is possibly because a woman is somewhat more civilized
than man, and anything that savors of brutality or fierceness, always is more
revolting to her than to the less artificial being. I have said the occurrence
of such affairs was common enough in the old days, before the practice of
putting grooves in pistols and making them as accurate as rifles to a steady
hand, became general. After that men became more careful about abusing the code
and getting into scrapes, for the pistol has always been recognized as a weapon
for gentlemen in Virginia. But I must confess, however, that meetings have
always been numerous enough, and for the most trivial causes, on the soil of the
grand old commonwealth. After Mary had read the note from Harrison she became
much more civil to Barron, and even my mother's stern dignity thawed a little
under the prospect of a renewal of social intercourse with the master of the
Harrison plantation. Mary was only nineteen, and although southern girls are
women of that age, she possessed a great deal of that childlike simplicity,
which is, or is not, so acceptable to the majority of men. For my part, however,
I have always been ungallant enough to believe that a woman affects much. Will
had been devotion itself for two years past at Judkins' Hall, for he lived only
a few miles away near his family's old country seat at Westover, and
consequently found it quite easy to see the inmates of the Hall several times a
week even when living at home. He was my favorite cousin, and it was almost
painful to see his spirits as much affected by my sister's as a barometer is by
the weather. "Why don't you say something," she said to him, after reading the
note and watching the quiet, grave look on his face. "What shall I say?" he
answered, smiling with her, "I'm here to talk to you." And in truth he did
appear to be always around for that purpose, but never able to raise his voice
to the occasion. "I don't know whether you are or not. I've been reading about a
man who carried on an affair simply by whistling. But even that would hardly
apply to you after taking part in that duel. You certainly would hardly care
even to whistle to me, or you would not have gone with them. Perhaps you are
here to eat and fight." "You invited me to breakfast." "Yes, but that does not
presuppose you are too hungry to speak. Perhaps you think I asked you here to
see you fight, and then satisfy your hunger. You don't know why I asked you
here. If you are here to talk to me, do say something. Why did I ask you here to
breakfast?" "Words are sometimes used to convey ideas," I suggested, trying to
help Will along, for I well knew how little women care for a man who can't say
something light and foolish at the right time. "Or to conceal them," said
Barron, breaking in with his old saw. "But where the ideas are vague and not
quite well defined, what then?" asked Mary, with a knowing look at her mother.
"Then I don't see how they can be of any value, whatever, and I don't see how
I'll ever find out the true reason for my being here, though I'd much like to
know," said Will. "Quite right, Will," said my mother smiling, "I don't care for
vague ideas either--or to hear a man and woman in worthless gibble-gabble,
gibble-gabble. If there is a dearth of ideas, one reason is as good as another."
"I admire silence, also," laughed Barron, "for there is an old saying in regard
to its value. But at the same time, give me plenty of plans, schemes and
feasibilities." "I like the latter well enough myself," said Will, so dolefully
that we all were forced to smile, and my charming sister laughed outright,
saying--

"Certainly Captain Barrow's conversation is not lacking of ideas, but then he is
a blunt man, and plain, so it is hardly to be expected that he should conceal
such scintillating wit"--

"Blunt man,--and soldier, if you please," interrupted Barron, with intense
gravity, seeing his chance to heal the rupture between himself and Mary. "I may
add, 'and soldier,' when I see some evidence to justify it," retorted my sister
with a little energy. But Barron only laughed and we finally adjourned to the
verandah in a more civil mood than when we sat down to breakfast. The air is
delightful on the river at this time of year of which I speak, and, as you
probably well know, has a soothing effect on the nerves, for it is not at all
cool, nor is it hot enough to excite the circulation. We sat there in the
delicious, fragrant breeze for some minutes before we were aware of the approach
of Berkley Harrison, Phripps and Miss Rose Carter, a cousin of Harrison's. Miss
Carter had come over with her maid to nurse her cousin the moment she had heard
that he was hurt, and as Harrison lived alone, except when some one like Phripps
was with him, a woman would have been a good person to have had at hand, had he
been injured badly, or had my mother and sister not spent most of their time
attending to his wants. I suppose I might as well say, before going further,
that although I am only a poor Virginia gentleman who has nothing but his--well,
estate and inheritance--I had some hope of raising myself to a position from
which I might allow my gentler passions to have some sway. You will understand
what I mean when I tell you that for beauty of face and figure, coupled with a
grace beyond description, Miss Carter was--well, I will not tire you with
details that are so well known. And then, again, a woman's beauty depends
entirely upon her attractiveness to a man, and some men will see beauty in one
way and some in another; never all alike. Why, I have seen the niggers in the
slave quarters let Harrison's house servant, Angeline,--a yellow girl of
remarkable beauty,--pass by unnoticed and then, ten minutes later, be peeping
and spying at the blackest moke wench that ever left the Guinea coast.
Harrison's greeting, this morning, was a trifle cool to Barron and myself, and
his appearance was not improved by the sinister look of his shining black eyes.
These were somewhat sunken in his pale cheeks and had dark crescents beneath
them. His head was bandaged, but a skull cap covered all signs of his wound. To
Will Byrd and my sister he was most gracious, and he even bent his wounded head
to kiss the tips of my mother's thin fingers. "You see," he said, after Miss
Carter and Phripps had made their greeting, "I took the opportunity to come over
to tell you that Lord Dunmore has sent word that he fears great trouble in the
tide-water districts, and that all the gentlemen of the province were making
ready to embark on his vessels and leave with their families until the
insurrection is more in hand." "And when will that be?" asked my mother in some
alarm. "Oh, only a few weeks, at the most," said Phripps, breaking into the
conversation. "Yes, about that time," continued Harrison, "but you know how
fanatical such men as Bullet and Bullbeggor are. It's really absurd how much
influence that beggar, Patrick Henry, has over such ignorant men. The man has
about as much logic in his discourse as a nigger has in his, but he sways his
followers any way he wishes, and is gaining recruits every day. I suppose you
know how illiterate the fellow is?" "And how rough and ill-bred," said Miss
Carter. "An ill-favored rogue and no mistake," said Phripps. "Odious men--vulgar
ruffians, all of them," said Miss Carter and Mary together. "So you say!"
murmured Barron, pleasantly. "And their followers are a pack of unhung thieves,"
added Harrison fiercely. "No house is safe while they roam the outlying
counties"----

"Mercy!" quietly interrupted my mother, who felt very kindly toward the
revolutionists, "One would actually suppose, Mr. Harrison, that you were quite
unfriendly with the whole party." And when she finished speaking I could see
Harrison's eyes fairly blaze with anger. He was very quiet, however, for some
moments, and then adding that it would be well to be packed and ready to embark
with Lord Dunmore when he arrived, he turned to my sister and talked of other
matters. Barron waxed flippant and jolly while talking to Phripps, so when
everybody was in good humor I took the opportunity to ask Miss Carter to help me
hunt thistles--for my mother. We walked some distance through the fields, and
found few thistles, but among other matters discussed were certain
characteristics of Mr. Berkley Harrison. "The most accomplished and perfect
gentleman in the province," said Rose. "But, my dear Rose, he is so uncommon
vain"--

"By which, I suppose, you mean simply that he has a decent opinion of himself,
owing to his birth and position," she interrupted. "A man who hasn't a proper
opinion of himself, seldom has one of any of his friends or acquaintances."
"Quite true," I answered, "but"--

"Do you really object to him so much?" she broke in. And as she smiled and
blushed slightly I followed the direction of her look and saw Mary and Harrison
standing together at the corner of the box-hedge of the driveway. "You could
hardly expect a gentleman of cousin Berk's antecedents to agree with the absurd
ideas of government you pretend to," she continued. "The matter is possibly open
to discussion," I answered a little stiffly. "Oh, no offence, my dear Dick. You
know the laws of human nature as well as I do. Those who are governed and have
little are always antagonistic to those who govern and have much, no matter how
perfect that government is." "Yes, I know," I answered, "there is no such thing
as justice in this world. Even the Bible, most holy of records, disclaims it,
saying, that those who have little shall have that little taken from them and
given to those who have much. At least that is what I make of it, but even if
there should be a small minority to govern and grind a large majority, the
majority should have its representatives to see that no unjust"--

"Nonsense!" she interrupted, "Those who represented it would soon acquire the
same habits and tendency as the minority, without even the leavening of high
birth and education the minority already have. There are some people born with
high ideas who are intended by Providence to govern always. They are superior in
feeling--but hush! What is cousin Berk doing?" We were now close to where
Harrison and Mary were standing, and I noticed that he peered cautiously over
the hedge at some object that lay on the other side in the sunshine. We turned
the angle of the drive way and as we did so I saw my boy, Sam, lying at full
length upon the grass, looking quietly up into Harrison's face with an
expression of curious interest showing upon his black features. "Are you busy,
Sam?" asked Harrison softly, not noticing my approach. "Yessah," replied Sam
without moving. "Eh! What?" and I saw him grasp his cane firmly in his hand
behind his back. "Yessah," continued Sam, "I'se been lying here fo' quite a
spell, sah, listenin' to my heart beatin'." "So, so," said Harrison quietly,
measuring his distance. Then he flashed out--"You infernal, impudent nigger!"
And he smote Sam a crack over the head that brought him to his feet with a
wicked look in his eyes. "Superior feeling!" I muttered angrily, and I saw Miss
Carter blush. Then stepping further out into view I caught Sam's eye in time to
avert further trouble, for he had never been handled before by anyone--except,
perhaps, myself. "Go to the quarters, Sam," I cried, and as I did so I saw
Harrison start at the sound of my voice and notice me. I would have given
something to have seen what Sam intended to do after that look,--for he was a
big, black, powerful, hog-nosed nigger, capable of some little mischief--but the
ladies being present, such intentions were, of course, impossible. Sam obeyed me
instantly and went quickly toward the stables with his broad shoulders well
squared and his head up, and Harrison continued on his way with my charming
sister upon his arm. "I suppose," I said, looking askance at Miss Carter, "this
is the superior feeling of the governing class which we have just witnessed?"
"What would that black boy have done?" she said, in alarm. "I saw the look in
his eyes that certainly meant more than disobedience." "Oh, Sam is a true and
trained Christian," I answered, somewhat nettled at the scene. "I taught him the
doctrine of forbearance myself and I have seen him practice it to some
advantage." "And what was that?" asked Rose, sweetly, looking up at me with her
lovely violet eyes that still showed traces of her alarm. "Well, the last
overseer I had was a man of superior feeling who belonged to the governing class
--and he started to govern accordingly. He smote Sam savagely upon the side of
his bullet head, one day, and knocked him down. Sam jumped up and rose to his
full height, offering the other side of his head without so much as a word. The
fellow, John Smith, struck him again, like a fool, and stretched Sam senseless
for half an hour." "And then?" "Oh, then Sam came to, and as soon as he could
stand, he drew his corn knife and it was all we could do to keep him from
killing that overseer. As it was, he got so badly cut that he would never come
back again to the Hall." I saw Miss Carter pale slightly. "Are many of your
people so brutal and blood-thirsty?" she asked. "Sam is neither one nor the
other, but as good a boy as ever followed a gentleman"--

"For revenge, do you mean? If that is so, I think the sooner I tell Berk--Mr.
Harrison, the better." "Oh, Lord, no," I cried, "I mean as a servant. Even Major
Bullbeggor allows him the privilege of serving him, and you know how particular
he is. But why so anxious about Berk Harrison's welfare?" "I am his cousin,"
answered Miss Carter, stiffly. The tone of her voice was enough. But Heavens! A
man must take his strokes, mental or physical, without too much wincing. As for
me, I like the man who can meet them with a smile on his lips and talk in a
steady, natural voice while his heart stops beating and the iron grip of sorrow
holds his throat like a vice. The tone of Rose Carter's voice, that day, told me
something in regard to cousinly feeling. But no matter. Our greatest sorrows are
not nearly so heavy some years afterwards and--

As I said, I felt a sensation, similar I now believe, to that which a few others
have felt before. But a man in love is never a philosopher--and he is generally
hasty and selfish. "I congratulate you, my dear Rose, on your relationship," I
said coldly, and the blood rushed through her face and left it whiter than
before. "Do you know, my dear Dick, you sometimes bore me most stupidly?" she
answered. And this commonplace incident ended. Commonplace it was indeed, but
what it meant to certain affairs which happened afterward, you may judge, if you
care to listen. It is the little commonplace affairs that influence the lives of
most people, as anyone may remember who cares to look at the past. CHAPTER IV

Dunmore failed to appear the next day, and Harrison came over to the Hall and
had the pleasure of the company of both Mary and his cousin to beguile him. Will
and I, accompanied by Barron, whom we persuaded to join us as a sort of spirit
raiser, took our fowling pieces, a pair of good dogs and Sam, and sought
distraction in the covers below the bend. It is astonishing how sympathetic
young men of good antecedents will become under certain circumstances. I always
liked my cousin Will, and it seemed to me now that my sister was cruel, and he a
much abused friend, since Miss Carter and I had had a sort of understanding
between us. But no matter, Will and I had always been drawn together, and our
silent companionship was very soothing and restful in spite of Barron's
incessant story telling and irrational humor. The old soldier had followed
around all day without so much as firing his piece, which he insisted on having
Sam carry with the flints at full cock--much to my boy's disgust. I had always
taught Sam to be careful with weapons, but Barron insisted on readiness above
all things, and would not allow the flints down. We had bagged several brace of
fine birds while he was engaged in other matters, and after seeing that Will and
I were having all the sport he wished to have his weapon ready but still refused
to carry it. Twice there had been premature explosions, the last of which tore
off the rim of the old soldier's hat, but, after each discharge, he made Sam
reload and proceeded on his way, tranquilly spinning story after story in high
good humor, and avoiding anything that might ruffle the feelings of young men in
--well, say in an uneasy, or perhaps diseased state of mind. We tramped along
all day, and late in the afternoon we were to the eastward of the bend and
making our way slowly through the heavy timber towards the river in the lower
reach. Will was slightly in advance of the rest of us, and as he broke through
the thick fringe of cover near the river bank, he gave a sudden cry of
astonishment and stopped. Sam promptly caught the lock of Barron's gun in some
undergrowth and instantly exploded it, much to our annoyance, as it peppered my
favorite setter severely and sent him howling down the river shore with a dozen
or more small shot sunk deep in his hide. In a moment we cleared the pines, and
the first thing that met our gaze was the _Fowey_, frigate, close to the beach
and standing up the river with all her working canvas set and her guns run out
ready for action. Behind her came several smaller craft, apparently crowded with
men and guns. One glance at the ship told plainly who she was, and upon her high
poop strode a man fore and aft whom we had no difficulty in recognizing as Lord
Dunmore, His Majesty's Governor of Virginia. We were less than half a mile
distant, but the shadow of the pines made it much more difficult for those on
board to see us, half concealed as we were in the long grass and low bushes,
than for us to see them. The poor dog, however, howled dismally, and the report
of the gun was evidently mistaken for the discharge of a hostile rifle, for in a
moment a great cloud of white smoke burst from the frigate's broadside, and the
same instant the air seemed alive with grape-shot, while the jarring report of a
twenty pounder echoed along the shore. The balls tore with a loud, ripping, rush
through the pine tops and crashed through the undergrowth. One of them striking
the butt of Will's gun smashed it to bits and knocked him endways into the
woods. To say we were a little surprised at this reception would hardly describe
our feelings. I made a spring for cover and hugged a large tree trunk as though
a storm were breaking over me, and as I did so I heard Sam give a yell and
disappear as if the earth had swallowed him up. It was over in less time than it
takes to tell of it, and I stepped out to see Barron laughing heartily as he
dragged Will to his feet. "They do make a most valuable noise," he laughed, "but
there's little harm in them. The devil! You were lucky in not getting that into
you--mere chance though." And he picked up Will's shattered gun. "If that's the
reception Dunmore is going to give us, I think we might as well keep on to
Williamsburg and join Mr. Henry's men," said Will, looking somewhat disturbed in
mind. "I never had a high opinion of his lordship's manners, but this is going
it a little too far. I wish I had my rifle, I would see if he would do a little
jumping at the crack of it. Here, Sam! Give me the Captain's gun and I will load
with ball and have a try at him." "Is it over, Marse Dick?" asked Sam's voice
coolly from somewhere in the thick bushes. "Come out, you black rascal!" cried
Barron, and presently Sam emerged from cover rapidly reloading Barron's weapon,
at the same time keeping an eye on the vessels as if expecting an attack. "Don't
do anything foolish, Will," I said, as I saw his temper rising, "It is a serious
matter to fire on His Majesty's Governor. Besides, here comes a boat from the
first schooner to inquire into our affairs." While I spoke, the vessel close in
the frigate's wake luffed sharply, and as her headway slackened, a gig full of
soldiers, pulled by four stout niggers, shot away from her side and came rapidly
towards us. Then the vessel tacked ship and stood slowly in after the boat, her
head sheets slacked off to stop her headway and the black muzzle of a long
twelve pounder sticking half a fathom clear of her forecastle rail. We stood in
a group on the sand and awaited developments, supposing, of course, that as soon
as we were recognized the vessel would proceed on her course in the wake of the
frigate. Dunmore we all knew quite well, for he had been several times to the
Hall and had often visited Will Byrd's cousin at the magnificent estate at
Westover. As the boat load of soldiers neared the shore the schooner luffed
again within easy hailing distance, and a man standing by the forecastle gun
hailed us. "Throw down your arms, you dogs, or I'll blow you off the ground!" he
roared. "The devil!" exclaimed Barron, "I wonder if he means that for us? But
our dogs are not armed." "Bang!" went the long twelve pounder in a cloud of
smoke, without another moment's warning, and a shot whistled over the small boat
and struck the beach a few feet in front and to the right of us. A storm of sand
and gravel drove into our midst, staggering and blinding me so that I fell
against Will, who in turn fell to the ground, swearing furiously. A small
particle had struck him with great violence in the eye, and in his fury at this
brutal onslaught he sprang to his feet, grabbed my gun from my hands, before I
had recovered sufficiently to stop him, and fired a load of small shot slap into
the boat full of men just as its keel touched the sand. A perfect roar of curses
followed, as the soldiers received the scattering charge. Then Barron seized
Will, and just as several men leaped ashore with their guns raised to shoot, all
three of us were struggling on the ground. Sam, left alone to face the loaded
muskets, dropped Barron's gun and instantly disappeared with a couple of musket
balls snipping through the brushwood after him. The next instant we were
surrounded by men and dragged to our feet, while a short, but big-limbed Irish
sergeant stood near and gave orders to his crew not to bayonet us. "Who are you,
and where's the rest of you?" snapped a grizzled, lean-faced officer, running up
with his sword drawn and looking full at Barron. "I am Jameson Barron, Esq.,
sir," said the Captain, smiling pleasantly, "and as for the rest of me, I
believe it is in Richmond. Dr. McGuire cut it off the day after Braddock was
killed and put it into a small flask of alcohol." And he held up his left hand
from which the last finger was missing. "None of your jokes, sir," snapped the
officer. "Where's the rest of your party?" Barron looked about him. "Sam!" he
called loudly. "Sam!" "I guess he's taken the track," he continued, quietly,
"but must still be within a mile of us. However, before we go too deeply into
the case, sir, you will oblige us greatly by stating your authority for firing
upon gentlemen who are in no way hostile to His Majesty." "Yes," I said, "I am
Richard Judkins, of Judkins' Hall, sir, and am well known to Lord Dunmore. By
what right do you fire upon us while we are simply out shooting for sport." Here
I looked around for our bag and ammunition flasks to prove the statement, if
necessary; but Sam, who had been carrying almost everything, had run into the
bushes before dropping his burdens, and they were out of sight. The ammunition
left us was not of a character to corroborate my statement to any degree of
exactness. It consisted now of several musket balls that Will had put in his
pocket for use in case we had met larger game. "Sport, eh!" snarled the officer,
rubbing his shoulder where a shot had penetrated the skin. "You'll see sport
enough before we get through with you. You may start on them, sergeant." He
turned away abruptly on saying this, and, with half a dozen men deployed as
skirmishers, proceeded to examine the edges of the forest for traces of a hidden
foe. "So 'tis sport ye're afther, hey?" said the sergeant. "Give yourself no
oneasiness, ye'll see it fast enough. Rooney, me sowl, lay yer hand tinderly on
yer trigger, while I investigate the handsome old un, an' if he so much as winks
his ears, blow his tripes out, d'ye see?" Barron made no further comment, except
to inquire of private Rooney what particular part of his anatomy held the
"tripes" alluded to by the sergeant. "Hold yer tongue, ye handsome old man,"
said that officer. "My sowl, but ye have a dacent figure av a soldier, despite
the years av yer cocoanut. Fancy him, boys, squinting wan av thim oies av his at
a leddy," and he ended with a hoarse chuckle, while he carefully went through
Barron's pockets. We were each examined in turn, but nothing of a hostile nature
was discovered, except Will's half dozen bullets. These, with our tobacco and
snuff boxes, were carefully tied up in a handkerchief and carried by the
sergeant to the boat. Our guns were also appropriated. The officer in charge
returned presently from his search along the shore, and having found nothing in
the shape of a foe, he ordered all hands into the boat. I protested with some
energy against this high handed proceeding, but was instantly seized by several
soldiers while another stuck his bayonet point half an inch into my back. Will
was treated in the same manner, and Barron, knowing resistance to be useless,
set us the example by walking quickly to the boat and climbing aboard. In a few
minutes we were on our way to the schooner. As we drew near, I noticed the
vessel's peculiar rig. She appeared light in the water, with long overhang fore
and aft, and her masts raked backwards to the last degree. Her spars were long
and tapering, and new, while her bulwarks appeared to have been built up to the
height of a frigate's, showing that she was evidently some fast vessel altered
and fitted up for the work Dunmore had planned on the river. Four ports cut in
her broadsides held the black muzzles of her battery of light twelves, while on
the forecastle was the pivot gun of heavier metal, which had been discharged at
us a few minutes before. Men swarmed on her main deck and about her battery,
while small knots stood with the sheets in hand ready for further orders. The
man who had hailed us from the forecastle, and had fired without further
warning, now stood at the starboard gangway, where a hanging companionway
trailed in the water. He wore a shabby uniform, such as I had seen some of
Dunmore's officers wear when doing their so-called patrol duty on the river. He
was short and stout, with a red face, his shifty, fishy eyes looking like two
little gray dots on either side of a nose that much resembled a boil. As we drew
alongside he bawled out orders, the men hauled flat the head sheets, and
instantly the schooner began to forge ahead. Some one threw a line and a man in
the boat caught it, making her fast at the companionway, up which the officer in
charge of us scrambled to the main deck. We were quickly sent aboard, followed
by the boat's crew, and were lined up in the gangway between a file of soldiers,
while the small boat was dropped astern to tow in the vessel's wake. CHAPTER V

We were slightly bewildered at the rapidity and novelty of the events which were
happening, and for some moments I stood and gazed at the hurrying men, who
appeared to obey a man with a shrill whistle whose notes rose and fell with long
undulations. No misunderstanding seemed possible, for each note appeared to mean
an order, which sounded high above the rattle of the vessel's gear. I was
something of a yachtsman, and took great interest until aware of the presence of
the stout man with the red nose. He was in command of the schooner, and he now
stood before us, gazing at us as if we were wild animals of an unknown kind. Two
or three younger men in the group that gathered about us appeared to be
officers, but I had never met any of them before, so they joined their captain
in his curious gaze. Finally the Captain spoke. "Mr. Rose," he said, in a thick,
raucous voice, "are these the men who fired on us?" "Yes, sir," replied our thin
faced captor, holding the handkerchief containing our valuables in one hand,
while he saluted with the other. "Then what d'ye mean by bringing them aboard
this vessel, sir?" he roared. "Haven't I told you, sir, to shoot every rebel
caught with arms on him? Hey! Answer me that, sir! Answer, or I'll break you
sir!" "They claim to be gentlemen, Captain Cahill," said our captor, meekly.
"Blast you! Do you mean to disobey me, sir? Answer my question, sir, or by
breechins and blackskin I'll break you sir!" roared the captain. "Yes, sir; yes,
sir, you did," answered the lieutenant, quickly. "You gave me orders to shoot
every rebel caught in arms, who refused to surrender. But these men claim to be
gentlemen and not rebels. This one," and he pointed to me, "claims to be a
friend of Lord Dunmore's." "Claims!" roared the Captain, getting almost purple
in the face, and it really appeared as if he were going off in a fit. "Claims!"
And then he simply drew in breath for a moment to gather power to express
himself. Here was an opportunity, I thought, so I broke in--

"Yes, sir," I said, "I am well known to Lord Dunmore, and also to nearly every
gentleman on the river. I am Richard Judkins, of Judkins' Hall, and I"--

"Shut up!" he roared. "Don't you speak to me sir. If you do I'll cut you down
where you stand." And he drew his sword. "You may be Richard Perkins, of
Perkins' Hell, or any other hell, but if Lord Dunmore knows you he knows an
unhung scoundrel. Don't glare at me, sir; don't glare at me that way, or I'll
cut you down where you stand," and he advanced a step towards me. "I am a
Virginia gentleman, sir, and I demand to be treated as such," I said. "You are a
liar and a villain," he roared, "and I will treat you as such," and with that he
made a pass at my head that would certainly have finished me, had I not jumped
suddenly backwards into the arms of a soldier behind me. At the same instant
Will Byrd sprang forward to ward off the blow. He caught the skipper's sword arm
with his right hand and instantly dealt him a powerful blow just under the ear
with his left. It sent the man to the deck as limp as a rag, with his sword
clattering after him. The next instant Will was seized and thrown down and a
line quickly passed around him, lashing his arms to his sides. Then Barron and I
were served likewise. The Captain lay on the deck as if dead, so in a few
moments he was picked up and carried below to be nursed back to consciousness.
In the mean time the schooner had been standing up the river under all sail,
with the breeze abeam, and was rapidly nearing the frigate that was sailing
under easy canvas to allow her to catch up and report the news of the affair on
the shore. "Carry the prisoners below in the fore-hold," ordered Mr. Rose, who
was now in command, and we were quickly carried down through the forehatch into
a dark, ill-smelling hole filled with bunks and all sorts of ship junk, and
there we were left with a couple of men to guard us. I stretched myself
comfortably on a coil of rope and awaited developments, thinking, of course,
that the instant Dunmore heard our names we would be released. "It's no use, we
are in for it," said Barron, smiling, "I only hope we will catch up with the
frigate before Captain Cahill recovers from that tap. Very neatly done, Will,
most remarkable--if it had been a trifle further forward though it would have
made a pretty mess of things--Hello! What's that?" We were on the weather side
of the schooner, and she was heeling over and going through the water at a great
rate. The rush of the waves was quite loud and continuous against the vessel's
side, but above the noise I could hear a hail from somewhere in the distance to
windward. Then came an answer from the schooner's deck--

"Three men!" bawled Mr. Rose from somewhere above us. Then came another hail.
"Don't know," bawled the Lieutenant in reply. "One named Perkins, of Perkins'
hole." Then came another pause followed by another hail. "Two young--one old,
with a face like the breech of a brass carronnade--all alive and well--no one
hurt." A pause. "Didn't suppose you knew them"--

Another pause. "Will not hurt them, sir"--

Then came a pause, followed by a hail I could just distinguish as the vessels
neared each other. "Keep them until his lordship has time to look into the
matter," said the voice faintly in the distance. "Aye, aye, sir," bawled Mr.
Rose. "Hold on," I cried desperately, "tell him who we are and let us go ashore.
This outrage has gone far enough"--

"Kape quiet, ye gentleman, or I'll be for jabbing yez with me baynit," growled
private Rooney, and he held the point against my ribs. "It's no use," said
Barron, smiling pleasantly, "we are in for some sport. It's a wonder, though,
that his lordship didn't recognize me from that lieutenant's description"--

"Ef yez opin that ugly mug agin, afore the lootinant comes below, I'll cut off
yer elephant years and jam them into it," said the soldier, Rooney. And then we
kept quiet while the schooner drove steadily along up the river. Sometimes she
tacked around the bends and sometimes she flew along with the wind fair, but
before dark we knew by the sound of the rushing water, that could be distinctly
heard through her sides, she had traveled many miles, and we were a long way
from Judkins' Hall. Just before coming to an anchor for the night the forecastle
pivot-gun was fired at some hostile object, and there appeared to be some
excitement on deck, but this soon subsided. Then the anchor chain roared through
the hawse pipe and the sound of rushing water ceased. Men began to swarm below,
and it was evident that the schooner had made her run for the day, and that
unless Lord Dunmore interested himself quickly in our behalf we would spend the
night uncomfortably. It was late in the evening when the sergeant who had
captured us came below. He made his way to where we lay through the crowd of
sailors and soldiers who were sitting about talking and eating their evening
meal, and looking at us. "Th' Captin wishes to say a few whurds t' th' gentilman
what stretched him out this day on th' main deck," he observed to the men
guarding us. "'Twas a good stroke, sure, but the Captin av th' _Hound_ keel-
hauled two men, just lately, for trying to excite dishorder on th' beach, so it
must be a hanging th' owld man is afther to-night. Bring thim right along wid
ye, me sons." Then he made his way on deck and we followed after him with a
soldier at each elbow. We went quickly aft, and just as I turned to go down the
cabin companionway I looked astern and saw the dark loom of the frigate's hull
through the darkness. Then we filed below into the Captain's cabin. At the head
of the cabin table sat Captain Cahill, and in front of him stood a flask of
spirits. On either side, within easy reach, lay a pistol with the flint cocked
back over the priming, and behind the Captain's chair stood Mr. Rose and two
other officers. The Captain looked little the worse for the blow Will had given
him, but his eyes shone fierce and green as a tiger's, as they met my cousin's
look. "Captain Cahill," said I, "for I believe that's your name, you will do
yourself a favor if you set us ashore instantly. This outrage, sir, has gone far
enough." He turned his fierce little shifty eyes to me, but took no other notice
of my words. He sat there, silent and grim, and slowly filled his glass from the
bottle in front of him. Then he drank off the contents. As he drained the last
drops with his head held backward, his eyes met mine squarely and his fury
burned within him. He bit savagely through the glass tumbler and ground the
splintered fragments between his teeth, and then spat them from his bleeding
lips. Then he hurled the remainder of the tumbler to the deck with a crash, and
sat there silently glaring like some fiend from hell. Finally he spoke. "It is
now nearly nine o'clock," he said slowly. "When three bells strike I shall drop
all three of you overboard, and you shall have three twelve pound shot--one
apiece--along with you. Lord Dunmore requests that you shall not be hurt. You
will see, Mr. Rose," he went on, turning to his lieutenant, "that no violence is
done these gentlemen. Do you understand, sir? Simply lower them carefully over
the side with a shot fast to the right foot of each, and see that their hands
are tied to prevent them from hurting any one. You may take them forward,
sergeant." We were on our way forward again and just on the point of entering
the forehatch, when the sound of oars, working in oarlocks with a man-of-war's
sweep, fell on our ears. The sergeant stopped and looked over the vessel's side.
"It's the Guvnor's boat," said one of the soldiers. "'E's comin' to pay his
respects to the skipper, an 'e'll find 'im in a fine state for argyment." "'Pon
me sowl, it is," said the sergeant. "Pete, you an' Rooney, here, take the folks
below while I see to his ludship." Before we reached the hatchway the boat was
alongside and an officer climbed quickly on deck, where he was met by the
sergeant. "The Governor sends his compliments to Captain Cahill, and wishes him
to send the prisoners he took to-day to the frigate for examination," said the
officer, and as he spoke I recognized him as Captain Foy's under-lieutenant whom
I had met several times before at Harrison's house. I called to him before
anyone could stop me, and the next instant we were shaking hands before the
astonished soldiers. "You have come in good time, Mr. Jones," I said, "and for
Heaven's sake get us clear of this vessel and its lunatic skipper." He laughed
heartily as the sergeant came up and saluted. "This way, if ye plase," said that
soldier, and he led him aft. A few minutes later the sergeant came forward,
accompanied by Mr. Jones of the _Fowey_, frigate, and we were ushered over the
side just as the lookout, forward, struck off three bells. "'Twas a narrer
escape, me son," whispered the sergeant to Will as he went over the side. The
next minute we were on our way to the frigate. CHAPTER VI

"It's all very well for your lordship to laugh," said Will, an hour later, after
we had been served with an excellent meal, washed down by delicious wine, at the
Governor's cabin table, "but had you been busy with other matters to-night, we
would have been comfortably buoyed in the mud at the bottom of the river." "He
is an uncommon rascal, that Cahill," laughed Dunmore, "but, my dear Byrd, you
should not take arms against His Majesty's Governor, even in fun. Ha! ha! It
would have been droll, 'pon my word, ha! ha! May the Lord roast me if it would
not have been a joke to have seen you three gentlemen buoyed in this most muddy
stream. It is a revelation, Byrd, a revelation, sir, from Providence. A sign of
the times and an omen for you to take advantage of without delay. It is an
insight into the future and should hurry you to take up arms in His Majesty's
just cause. Think of it, if it had not been for his Majesty, the King--as
represented by myself--you would have been at the bottom of the river to-night
to remain there, perhaps, through all eternity; for I take it that the angel
Gabriel would have to blow a mighty blast to lift you out of this most sticky
Virginia soil." "But if it hadn't been for His Majesty, the King, as represented
by that truculent skipper on the schooner over there, we might now be dining in
the charming company of Miss Judkins and Miss Carter, to say nothing of the
mistress of Judkins Hall," said Barron, smiling at Dunmore with a beaming face.
"And have lost the honor of dining with his excellency, the Governor," I put in
hurriedly, for I thought I perceived an uncomfortable look gather on his
lordship's countenance. The two officers present, Captains Foy and Graham, also
began to look a trifle annoyed. "But where are we, anyhow, Lord Dunmore?" asked
Will. "Your excellency has rescued us, true enough, and made the matter all the
better by adding this splendid dinner, but whereabouts on the river are we?" "As
near as I can judge, we are about twenty miles above Westover. Hey! Captain Foy?
Isn't that about the reckoning?" replied Dunmore. "And if we have good luck and
little fighting, we shall be through our business in this part of the river and
on our way down stream before this time to-morrow evening. There is very little
to do after all. Graham, here, and Fordyce of the _Hound_ had some little
difficulty yesterday with a small party of rebels, but they were all shot or
dispersed except the leaders, who were keel-hauled by Captain Fordyce. He and
Cahill are very able men in their line of work and their vessels are well
adapted for these inland waters. But it is a very malodorous business and the
sooner we get clear of these unhealthy swamp vapors, and get a sniff of salt
air, the better. I hope, Foy, you will see that plenty of sulphur is burned
aboard to-night." "Can we be landed to-night?" I asked. "Yes," said Will, "can
we get ashore? They will expect us at the Hall and will be much troubled if we
don't get back before bedtime." "I don't see how it can be done, do you Foy?"
said Dunmore. "We had an exchange of shots with the shore, as you may have
noticed from the schooner, just before coming to anchor, and I would hardly
think it wise to send a boat in there at this time of night. You wouldn't care
to land there this evening, would you, Graham?" "No, your excellency, it would
hardly be safe," replied that officer. "Besides," continued Dunmore, "Fordyce
stopped at Harrison's to take him and his party aboard the _Hound_, and from
Fordyce's description of your affair on the beach with Cahill's men, they will
probably be satisfied that you are in safe keeping for the night. Harrison was
in a hurry to get to Norfolk, as he expected to sail for England soon,--so his
note said--and I gave Fordyce orders to end his patrol there and start back
immediately. He will go down on the morning tide and meet us below in a day or
two. Cahill, and some of those small craft astern of us can finish up the work
here and above us." "Then we shall have to spend the night aboard?" I inquired.
"I am sorry to force my hospitality upon you, gentlemen," said Dunmore, "but I
see no other way out of it. Anyhow, I take it for granted you would have joined
us to-morrow, in the interest of the King, so the hardships will not be so very
great. However, if you would rather go back aboard the _Black Eagle_ and spend
the evening with Captain Cahill, you may do so. Shall I call away the boat?" And
as he said this his eyes twinkled with some little amusement. "Give yourself no
more trouble on my account, your excellency," said Barron, "I am, as you know,
an old soldier and have no relatives to speak of. I find myself just as much at
home in a strange bed, be it ever so comfortable, as in any other." "Not a bad
idea, Captain," answered Dunmore, "not a bad idea, sir; but before we think of
turning in, Captain Foy and Graham here would not be adverse to opening a bottle
or two more with you. Steward! You may clear the table and bring some of that
stuff captured yesterday. It may strike you as strange, gentlemen," he
continued, "but that beggar who lives near Jamestown keeps most remarkable
liquor. May the Lord pickle me, if it isn't equal to any I have ever tasted at
home." "And a most remarkable man he was, too," put in Captain Foy. "He did show
more or less nerve of a peculiar order," said Graham. "How was that?" asked
Will. "Well, you see," said Captain Graham, "we went ashore on the island to
reconnoitre, as we had heard of the large gathering at Williamsburg. The first
thing that greeted us on landing was a couple of rifle shots. These appeared to
come from the bushes near Jacquelin's house, and one of them struck poor
Billings in the pit of the stomach and passed through him, poor fellow. We
finally made a landing a little farther up stream, where there was more cover,
and the first thing we encountered on getting ashore was a motely crowd of
farmers, armed and ready to fight us. There was one fellow, I believe they
called him 'Bullet,' who is a fierce rebel, and another mounted on a powerful
bay mare, who rode with his left arm in a sling and had a strangely attired
negro servant to carry a couple of rifles for him. These were the only dangerous
men in the crowd, for the rest had no organization and appeared to obey no
commander, so they quickly broke and fled at the first fire. Four of them
remained, however, and these two I have just described were the ones who cut
their way through our men with their swords and escaped. The other two were
captured, for they refused either to run or cease fighting. One was Jacquelin,
who owns the house, and the other a man named Horn. Fordyce was coming up just
then and I turned them over to him. He tried to get some information about Mr.
Henry's mob out of both of them. Jacquelin had his fingers punched with a belt
punch without so much as saying a word, and the fellow, Horn, was seated on a
hot stove until the breeches and skin were burnt off his buttocks, but all he
did during that time was to curse His Majesty most heartily. Fordyce started to
keel-haul him, and had the line made fast to his hands passed under the
schooner's bottom, but somehow the line fouled just as he was drawn under the
bilge, and by the time they cleared it and pulled him aboard again he was as
dead as a mackerel. After Jacquelin had his turn, he offered to lead us to
Williamsburg, or anywhere else we wished to go, and the beggar told a yarn about
some good wine in his cellar the men had failed to find. We stopped at his house
again, and four of us went with him to find the stuff. He did have a door we had
overlooked and he showed it to us. The cellar was full of this stuff you see
before you, and while we stood at the entrance admiring the flasks the rascal
shoved all four suddenly inside the door and banged it to and locked it. Then he
started across the island like a scared rabbit. That's the last anyone saw of
him, for, as usual in such cases, by the time the men heard us and saw what had
happened, he was too far off to hit and there wasn't a man there who shot within
a fathom of him." "That must have been a very interesting affair," said Will,
somewhat coldly, "but if you are through I would like to go to bed. I am a
little fatigued from the day's excitement. No thanks! I do not care for any more
wine. I hope your excellency will excuse me." And he rose from his chair. Lord
Dunmore looked sharply at Byrd, and appeared a trifle annoyed, but he said
nothing. It was easy to see that Will's sentiments were not exactly in accord
with our hosts, and that a strained relationship would exist between them if
something were not done quickly. It was evident that Lord Dunmore expected us to
accompany him as loyal subjects on the morrow, and I knew it would need some
keen acting on our part to enable us to avoid giving up our residence at the
Hall and becoming refugees for an indefinite period. My heart was anything but
light when I thought of Harrison,--with the ruffian Fordyce to back him,--having
things his own way down the river. But as I only thought of Berk as a misguided
gentleman, a little over-zealous in his duty to the King, the only trouble I
anticipated was some obstacle I felt he would place in our way when he found we
wished to remain at home. At all events, I knew I must not antagonize Dunmore,
or he would fail to put us ashore the next day as we hoped he would. Therefore I
reached for poor Jacquelin's wine and drank his excellency's health, and Barron
needed no urging to follow my example. Will remained standing until I explained
that he was suffering from the shock of the discharge from Cahill's pivot-gun,
whereupon the Governor was much amused and laughed immoderately as I described
how the ball covered us with sand and gravel. Then we finished the bottle, and
after bidding his excellency good night, the steward ushered us into the
officers' cabin where a state-room had been made ready for us. As soon as we
were left alone, Will burst forth into a perfect torrent of abuse against
Dunmore and his underlings. Barron and I tried to stop him lest some one should
hear the noise, but it was only after he had called them every villainous name
he could think of that he at last consented to keep quiet. As for myself, I have
said before that the Judkins family were not of a nervous or excitable
disposition, and are not carried away by wild and insane thoughts of mistaken
patriotism, but I had decided that evening that the King would soon have another
enemy of my acquaintance. By the present state of the feelings of both Barron
and Byrd, I thought it highly probable that there would be several more. Will
finally turned in and I did likewise, for we were very tired. Barron sat a long
time apparently lost in thought, holding his half-removed boot in his hands.
Then he spoke. "Poor Horn," he muttered, "I owed him for two gallons of gin."
And then he undressed and turned in without another word. CHAPTER VII

The next morning the frigate was under way before we were up, but as the water
appeared shoal at the end of the reach, she was anchored to await high tide, for
the river is very narrow here and dangerous for a large vessel to turn about in.
When we arose and came on deck a little later, we had the pleasure of seeing our
friends, or rather enemies, of yesterday, pass close under the frigate's stern;
and as they did so Barron leaned over the rail and saluted Captain Cahill very
pleasantly and wished him a safe and happy voyage. We stood on the _Fowey's_
high poop and watched the swift little schooner pass up the river and disappear
around the bend above us. Soon afterwards we heard the rattle of musket firing,
followed by the heavy, deep boom of her pivot-gun. After the reverberating
echoes died away along the wooded shores, all was silent. The sun broke through
the river mist and shone warmly on the muddy water, and the day promised to be
bright and quiet. The two small craft that followed the schooner now took in
their sails and put out their oars, and their niggers pulled to a lusty chorus.
Dunmore was up early. He was evidently annoyed at having to spend so much time
on the river, for he came on deck in quite bad humor. He greeted us rather
stiffly, and then turned to Captain Graham who had also just made his
appearance. "What is that firing about?" demanded the Governor in no uncertain
tone. "I don't know, your excellency," replied Graham. "Captain Graham," said
the Governor, "you will please tell me just what you know, sir, quickly. It
won't take a minute, sir, or else write it down on a slip of paper. Send Mr.
Johnson to me, sir!" The Captain went forward on the poop, and a moment
afterward a young officer appeared coming aft. He saluted the Governor and stood
attention. "Mr. Johnson, it is your watch on deck, sir. What was that going
about on board the _Black Eagle_?" inquired Dunmore. "I d-d-do not k-k-know,--
your"--

"Call the Corporal of the guard, sir. Don't stand there and stammer at me, sir,"
cried the Governor, interrupting him and waxing furious. The poor lieutenant
retreated to the break of the poop, closely followed by his master, but he was
too excited to speak plainly. "Corp'ral g-g-g'ard! Corp'ral g-g-g'ard!" he cried
weakly, but there was no response from the main deck. "What are you doing, sir!"
thundered Dunmore as he came up behind him. "Trying t-t-to c-c-call the Corporal
of the g-g-g'ard, your"--

"For God's sake, Mr. Johnson call somebody. Call somebody, sir, quick," cried
his lordship, walking to and fro across the deck and wringing his hands. Then,
as he came to where the Lieutenant stood, he could stand it no longer and waxed
into a frenzy. "Do something! Call somebody! Do something for God's sake! Do
something Mr. Johnson, or get off this ship," he cried. And the young officer,
showing him self to be a man more fitted for action than words, dashed down the
companion ladder and dragged the corporal he wished for up again by the collar
of his coat. Then, after much swearing and questioning, the Governor heard that
Captain Cahill had fired upon a small hut, just visible beyond the bend of the
river. I tell these events that happened on board the _Fowey_, frigate, to give
an idea of the Governor's temper, and also because every incident of that time
stands out clearly before me. Mr. Jones, the young officer who took us off the
_Black Eagle_ was very pleasant to us, and warned us against the tempers of
Captain Foy and the Governor, after which he kept out of our way, and we saw him
no more to speak to while we were aboard the ship. He was a promising young man
and I hoped to have him help us get ashore, but he evidently thought it best not
to be intimate with neutrals. After breakfast his lordship was in better
spirits, and these were more improved later in the morning upon the arrival of a
small boat which carried Mr. Robinson, a noted tory, and several of his family
to the frigate. Mrs. Robinson was a woman of fine presence, and her daughter
might have been said to have been beautiful, judging from the standard of those
days, but she was no longer young and her lack of success in the matrimonial
field appeared to have soured her temper. These people were made comfortable in
the officer's cabin and were very outspoken in their opinions regarding Mr.
Patrick Henry. When the tide turned in the afternoon and began to run a strong
ebb, the frigate was gotten under way, and, with her working canvas set, headed
down stream. The wind was so light that, in spite of the most careful steering,
she was run on a mud bank before going much over a mile. Captain Foy, however,
was equal to the occasion. He soon had a kedge out and before the falling tide
left her fast he warped the ship back again into the channel. Bad luck did not
desert us here, for the frigate had hardly gathered way again before she piled
heavily upon a sand bar and all attempts to pull her off proved useless. It was
then decided to await the next high water. The day passed stupidly enough in
spite of the presence of Miss Robinson on board. We were all anxious to get down
river and Lord Dunmore was now in such a bad humor that he refused flatly, and
with some energy, our request to have a small boat put us ashore, so we could
walk the twenty miles or more across country to Judkins' Hall. But we were not
the only ones to suffer from his lordship's temper. Mr. Johnson, the young
navigating lieutenant, came in for his share also. He was standing on the edge,
or break, of the poop, after the frigate had run hard and fast aground, and was
much upset in his mind, although the accident was unavoidable. A little imp of a
powder-monkey boy thought to take advantage of a moment when his back was
turned, to imitate his defect in speech and make faces at him for the benefit of
the ship's company. The officer, however, turned and caught him in the act.
"Damn you, sir! Come to the m-m-mast!" he bawled, and Lord Dunmore, hearing the
noise, came forward to see what was the matter, and take a hand in the
disturbance if occasion demanded it. "What has he done?" asked the Governor, as
the boy came aft crying with fear. "Nothin'," snuffled the little rascal,
speaking before anyone could stop him. "'E just sez, 'Dam you, sir, come to the
mast,' an' I comes." "Did you swear at this boy for nothing?" demanded the
Governor. "No, your excellency," said Mr. Johnson. "I said d-d-damn y-y-you,
sir, c-c-come here, because he"--

"That will do!" thundered the Governor. "Go to your quarters in arrest, sir. I
won't have you swearing at my men for nothing. Go, sir!" And after this affair
we gave his excellency a wide berth for the rest of the day. The next morning
the tide floated us clear, and we got under way just as the _Black Eagle_ came
around the bend above us. She soon caught up with the frigate and we learned
that she had a dozen or more prominent tories aboard who wished to take refuge
with the royal Governor. We stopped twice on the way down the river, once to
take aboard a tory named Thornton, who lived on a large plantation on the south
side, and once we stayed an hour or more on a mud flat. It was nearly sundown
before the white pillars of Judkins Hall showed through the fringe of willows on
the river bank. The red light of the setting sun flooded the south portico and a
pane of glass in a window, catching a ray at an angle, burned like a bright eye
for an instant as we drifted past. Dunmore reluctantly consented to send us
ashore in a boat with Mr. Johnson and a guard of soldiers to see if anyone
remained at the Hall, and if so, to help carry what luggage there was to be sent
aboard the frigate. My slaves could follow us in the small craft. As the boat
drew near the beach, where only a few days before Bullbeggor had won his strange
victory over Harrison, we looked for some signs of welcome from our people. Not
a leaf stirred in the calm of the bend, and not a sound from the shore broke the
ominous stillness of that warm, clear evening. None of us spoke and even
Barron's face appeared grave with some thought of impending evil. The sun shone
on the sweating faces of the rowers, and the regular clank of their oars in the
row-locks beat time to my heart throbs as I waited to learn what was wrong. When
the boat's keel struck the sand, we sprang quickly ashore and proceeded rapidly
by the river path toward the Hall. On entering the fringe of bushes and
undergrowth on the river bank I thought I heard a strange noise close by me to
the right. We stopped a moment and listened, but the four men and Mr. Johnson,
who were following close behind us, came up, and we started on again toward the
Hall. All of a sudden I heard a faint cry. "Marse Dick!" it said feebly, and the
voice came from the direction I had first heard the noise. Barron, Byrd and
myself heard the cry simultaneously, and we instantly started toward the spot
from whence it came. The next minute we broke through a thicket of blackberry
bushes, and found a small cleared spot in the midst of the grass and briars.
There, lying upon his back, with his left hand held over a nasty cut in his
abdomen, was my boy, Sam. The poor fellow saw me and I caught his glad look of
recognition, but his glance wandered back of me to Mr. Johnson and his men, and
his look turned to one of savage fury. He started to rise, but I quickly held
him in my arms while the rest crowded around us. "What's happened?" I gasped.
"Where is mother and Mary--and Miss Carter?" "Miss Mary, she gone wid Marse Berk
--all alone--old missus and Miss Rose gone away, too," said the poor fellow,
with great difficulty. I looked at Will and saw him turn ashy pale and his jaws
set until the bands of muscle in his lean face seemed about to break with the
strain. "What rascal do you suppose did this?" asked Mr. Johnson, coming up
closer and noticing the look on Will's face. But no one answered. "Who gave you
that cut, Sam?" I asked, bending over him and gently removing his hand from the
gash. "Get some water, quick!" I continued to the men, but Barron had already
started for the boat, where he found a bailer, and returned in a moment with it
full of water. In a few moments Sam felt better, and I immediately set to work
to dress his wound. "Who cut you?" I asked again, for I saw he hesitated about
telling me. I soon had a bandage in place, and then I repeated the question.
"Marse Berk," he finally whispered, and as he did so Will leaned over him to
catch the words. "He an' that Captain were here--Marse Berk--he wanted Miss Mary
to go off alone with him on the schooner--an' he took her--she wanted to wait
for old missus an' she cried--I came--so he killed me." "But mother and Miss
Carter, Sam, quick; where are they?" I asked, frantically. "Dunno, Marse Dick.
I'se been here sence yesterday--I ain't seen no one--they all must be gone
somewheres, too." "Carry him to the Hall," I said to the soldiers, and then Will
and I started on a run towards the house. On reaching the front door we found it
shut fast, but Will burst the fastening of a window on the verandah and sprang
into the dining room, and I followed at his heels. I bawled out my mother's
name, and Will cried out for my sister, but our voices echoed through an empty
house. There was not even a slave there. We quickly went through the rooms
upstairs, and then through the pantries and kitchens in the rear, without
finding a single house servant. Then we started for the slave quarters to see if
anyone had remained there, but not even a single pickaninny was in sight.
Everywhere there were traces of hurried preparations for departure. Clothes were
scattered about the floors, and in the servants' dining room the evening meal
lay untouched upon the table. We went outside and looked about the court, and
then went to the stables. We had only been through the empty stalls on the lower
floor, when we saw two of my niggers coming on a run through the field to the
northward. They had seen us and had come from hiding places, and in a few
minutes they were with us and seizing our hands, thanking us for coming back
again. Then Mr. Johnson came up with his men, carrying Sam on a litter made of
their crossed muskets, and Barron showed them the way to a couch in the slave
quarters. My two field hands, who were telling me what had happened, were ready
to run at the sight of the soldiers, but I bade them be still and tell their
story. They told how the schooner, _Hound_, had anchored just off Harrison's
plantation, the evening we were captured by Captain Cahill, and how Berkley
Harrison had come over to the Hall with Captain Fordyce and a file of soldiers.
Then all hands had gotten drunk, in spite of my mothers' presence, and Harrison
had insisted on my family and Miss Carter accompanying him to Norfolk on the
vessel. My mother had remonstrated at this high handed business, but Harrison
stormed and threatened, and vowed he could not keep the soldiers from looting
and burning the Hall if they were not all on board and ready to sail within an
hour. My sister took him outside to try and get him into a more reasonable mood,
and that was the last anyone on the plantation, except Sam, saw of her. After
waiting half an hour, my mother and Miss Carter became alarmed at her absence,
and also at the actions of the soldiers, who began to fire their muskets at
random. Upon looking for their Captain, they found him sitting on the verandah
with a bottle of spirits on a table before him and much the worse for what he
had already drank. He informed my mother roughly that Harrison and my sister had
embarked aboard the _Hound_, which would sail within the hour. He then rose from
the table and insulted Miss Carter, after which he staggered down to the shore
and was carried aboard his vessel, leaving the Hall at the mercy of his men.
These rascals broke into the women's side of the slave quarters and such a scene
of riot followed that my poor mother and Miss Rose fled across the fields for
their lives. They reached Harrison's place and had the frightened slaves, who
were preparing to follow their master, harness a horse for them. Then they drove
with all speed for Pendleton's Inn at the cross-roads several miles to the
eastward. Here they were made comfortable and were now awaiting news of our
whereabouts. As the men finished their story, Barron reappeared with the
Lieutenant, and I repeated some of the details. Then I turned to the officer.
"You may give the Governor my compliments," I said, in a dry, rasping tone that
seemed to stick in my throat, "and tell him that I am sorry not to be able to
accompany him to Norfolk this evening. I shall, however, hope to meet him and
his party quite soon, and will make all haste after I see affairs attended to
here. Mr. Byrd, and, perhaps, Mr. Barron, will go with you," and I gave Will a
look that made him nod assent. "I am v-very s-s-sorry, sir," stammered Mr.
Johnson, "but the Governor's orders were positive. They were that all of you
should return with me to the _Fowey_." "Indeed?" asked Will, blandly. "And of
course you will carry out the Governor's orders?" asked Barron, smiling
pleasantly. "At any cost, sir," replied Mr. Johnson. "So you say," remarked
Barron, still smiling. "So I'll do," replied Mr. Johnson coloring a little at
Barron's remark. "If you doubt me, sir, try me," and he looked about him for his
men who now came straggling up. "No offence, sir," put in Barron, quickly. "I
merely repeated a remark said to have been made quite often in the society at
court--a remark expressing doubt in the mind of the person making it, without
reflecting in any manner upon the sincerity of the person telling of the
supposed event." "At any rate, you certainly will allow us time to collect my
people and attend to my scattered property. Also, you will allow us to make what
necessary changes in our personal attire we see fit?" I asked. "Certainly, sir,"
replied the officer, "the frigate will anchor for the night in the broad reach a
few miles below the bend, and you shall have plenty of time, not only to pack
your effects, but to send for whatever relatives you wish to accompany you. The
men, meanwhile, can collect your slaves and send them on ahead of us." "We shall
make our preparations," I answered shortly, and then I led the way into the
Hall. CHAPTER VIII

My first care was for my boy Sam, and after he had been properly cared for, he
was carried aboard the small boat and made comfortable. While we were changing
our clothes, Will and I had a chance to discuss matters privately and decide
what had best be done. Knowing my sister's fondness for Berkley Harrison, I
conceived the idea very readily that she had consented to go with him and marry
him at the first convenient opportunity. Will declared that he would soon hear
this consent expressed from her own lips, and that he would feel more relieved
after hearing it. God alone knows what the poor fellow's thoughts were, and what
hope still lingered within his breast. As for myself, my duty appeared now to
lay first with my poor mother--and Miss Carter. My sister was off with the man
she apparently loved, and nothing worse could happen to her than what had
already occurred. I believed Harrison to be a gentleman and honorable in his
dealings, although I did not agree with him in his political ideas and views.
Barron decided, positively, to accompany me and openly hinted that Williamsburg
was the place he hoped to reach as soon as he helped me straighten out matters
at the Hall. "I will join you there also, as soon as I find my services are not
needed at Norfolk," said Will. "Then we will leave you here with Mr. Johnson," I
said. "As soon as he gets tired of waiting for Barron and myself, you can go
with him and join Dunmore, and meet us later with the forces under Colonel
Henry." While we were discussing our affairs, we were changing our shooting
clothes for more suitable garments, and we were quite alone. I took two silver
mounted, Paris made pistols from a case, and concealed them carefully by
sticking them in my belt under my outer coat. I may say here that these weapons
were remarkable for their fine finish, and were the same I had used on one or
two well known occasions before. They were the ones from which I had fired six
bullets in succession, one day, upon the edge of a knife blade set twenty paces
distant, and they could be relied upon. They had the advantage over most, for
they exploded almost instantly from the flash of the flint. After seeing to
these, Barron and I then buckled on our swords; mine a fragile rapier which had
formerly been part of the dress of a man of fashion, and his a more serviceable
weapon, but still very light for field use. "You will certainly allow me the
privilege of escorting my own mother," I said to the Lieutenant, when we had
finished our preparations and had come down stairs. "Where is she?" he asked.
"At Pendleton's Inn, a few miles back in the country," I answered. "But, as I
understand we are not exactly prisoners, you will have no objection to my going
to her, and telling her of the arrival of his excellency, the Governor." "Not
only that, but you may take two men with you. There may be some of Mr. Henry's
bush-fighters who might not be to your way of thinking, and who might dispute
the way with you. Carry your sword if you wish. Is Captain Barron to accompany
you? He may do so if you wish it, for, of course, I have your word that you will
not stay any longer than necessary or go anywhere my men cannot go also without
making trouble." Saying this he beckoned two stout soldiers aside and gave them
some orders I did not quite hear. I said nothing in reply to his remark about
not staying, or leading his men into hostilities, for I wished to gain time, and
I led the way quickly to the stables where saddles and bridles were procured.
The horses were at large, but in sight, grazing quietly in the pasture to the
eastward of the quarters. My two field hands soon had four of them ready. Giving
a nod to Barron, I leaped into the saddle, and he instantly followed my example.
The soldiers started to mount in a more leisurely manner. "Mr. Johnson," I said,
turning quickly, "I have not given my word as to not leaving you and your men.
Mark that, sir. Therefore I bid you farewell." The next instant I was loping
gracefully down the carriage drive with that peculiar ease which you may have,
perhaps, noticed as belonging to a Virginia country gentleman. Barron's knee was
rubbing against mine with each rise and fall, and the old soldier was smiling
happily at the scenery lit up by the last rays of the setting sun. I half
expected to hear a warning bullet, and turned my head with my chin to my
shoulder to see what was taking place behind. Mr. Johnson waved his sword
nervously and shouted out something I could not understand, and then the two
soldiers came galloping after us. "We better avoid their company, for they are
rough looking men," said Barron. "A soldier is good enough when properly
commanded, but most unpleasant when in command. As for me, I intend to command
some as soon as I can join the Major and the rest at Williamsburg." "We must
shake clear of these men before we get to the Inn," I said. "It would never do
to have a dispute there before the ladies, although the advantage would lie with
us. Suppose we slack up at the turn a mile above here and tell these fellows to
go back. Perhaps Will will find himself kept pretty close when Dunmore knows we
are not exactly in sympathy with the king." "He will have tact enough to keep
out of limbo, but I reckon Dunmore will try to make him take up arms against
us," said Barron. "You spoke of a bend in the road; is that it ahead there?"
"Yes, but suppose these fools show fight?" I asked. "That little side ornament
of yours will do little good in that case, but I reckon I can hold them both in
play. There was a time, if I remember rightly, when I knew something about the
use of a sword--even a light one like this I have with me. When Braddock was
down in the swamps I was a fair hand at pinning frogs. I reckon there isn't
anything much better to eat than the reptile's legs, but I tired of them after
the boys got me to eat the half raw legs of a skunk, by mistake, in the way of a
joke. Most uncommon joke it was, but I certainly am right when I say I can taste
those legs yet. Whoa! Steady, boys?" And we slowed our horses down to a walk.
The soldiers came galloping up, and the one who appeared to be a corporal, by
the cheverons on the sleeves of his tunic, drew alongside of me and saluted.
"Sorry, sir, but orders are to accompany you to your party at the Inn and bring
whatever luggage you wish to send back with me," said he. "But I'm not coming
back to the Hall for some time," I answered. "Do you wish to go with me to the
militia camp? It's doubtful if they would receive you well, or allow you to
return to the frigate after seeing your uniform." "We only go three miles," said
the man, "and if your party is not with us after traveling that distance, we
will postpone meeting them this evening and shall return together." "Shall is a
big word," said Barron, laughing. "Don't you know any better than to use it to a
gentleman? I reckon your discipline or early family training has been
neglected." "Our discipline aboard the _Fowey_ is fair," answered the soldier,
coolly, "and as for my family training, I don't think such things count for
much. Family is nothing to me, for the only ones I ever knew of mine were
cowardly and bad." "Does that apply to your mother and father?" asked Barron,
much amused. "Most certainly. My mother was a woman on the streets, and my
father was probably some chance acquaintance of a day or two, though I never
heard his name, or have I ever met him; but if you think my ancestry makes me an
inferior being to your self, I shall take pleasure in proving that a man's worth
depends entirely on the education or training he gives himself, mentally or
physically." "You speak with great precision," laughed Barron, "and I am sorry
not to have time to discuss your theory to a better advantage. That tall pine
tree ahead, with the eagle's nest in its top, is a trifle over three miles from
Judkins' Hall, so I regret to have to bid you good evening." "If that really be
so we shall all turn about here and go back to the boat. We shall proceed no
further in this direction. I suppose you know I am master of arms on the frigate
and quite capable of enforcing my words with this." And he whipped out a long
shining sword and his silent mate did likewise. "Of course you gentlemen will
not resort to anything so vulgar and absurd as resistance. Therefore turn your
horses and we may discuss other matters." My temper had been steadily rising for
some minutes past, and now it burst beyond my control. I snatched out my rapier
and dug my heels into my horse's ribs. The animal sprang forward twenty paces.
Then I drew up and wheeled suddenly, and then bore down on that Corporal with
all speed, my sword point aimed at his breast. There was a crash as the animals
and weapons met, and the next thing I knew I was lying on my back by the
roadside, grasping the hilt of my puny, broken sword tightly in my right hand.
Barron sat quietly in his saddle and laughed immoderately at me, while the
soldier seized my horse by the bridle and bade me remount. I sat up in the
roadway a little dazed, but, collecting myself, I felt under my coat to see if
my pistols were all right. They were there, so I arose, and, taking my horse
from the Corporal, climbed painfully back into the saddle again. Barron then
drew his weapon and slowly placed himself on guard. "You may or may not be right
in your theory, Mr. Soldier," said he, "but we are not to accompany you back to
Dunmore. Mr. Judkins is a very young and inexperienced swordsman compared to
yourself, but his mishap was due more to the worthlessness of his weapon than
lack of skill." "Tut! tut! I shall be forced to secure both of you with cords,
if this nonsense proceeds any further," said the Corporal. "Put up your sword
and waste no more time. Jim!" he called to his mate, "pass a line about Mr.
Judkin's wrists, lest he continue this nonsense past supper time." The soldier
approached and bade me hold forth my hands that he might secure them with a line
he produced from under his belt. I saw there was no use of putting off the
crisis any longer, so I held out one of them--my right--and in it was gripped
the butt of the straightest shooting pistol on the Virginia peninsula. "Give me
your sword hilt," I said, as I raised the barrel level with his eyes. But the
fool had seen me unhorsed so grossly, that he laughed in my face, and made a
pass at my weapon with his blade. I held fire while his point cut my cheek open,
and I ordered him back, hoping I could spare his life. But he cursed me and
pressed on, aiming a blow at my head to knock me from my horse, so I could wait
no longer. Then, to save my life, I pulled down the flint. The next instant he
lay dead in the road with a bullet hole in the center of his forehead. It was
all done so quickly that the Corporal and Barron sat looking on, hardly
realizing what had happened. This gave me the moment I needed, so I pulled out
my left hand weapon. "Surrender your sword, sir," I cried to the Corporal, for
the excitement of the fight was hot within me and my patience was at an end.
"Not to such a swordsman as you; it would disgrace me," replied the Corporal
contemptuously, and he began the fight by making a pass at Barron, which the old
Captain parried. Round and round and past each other went the horses, guided by
trained hands, and the sword blades slipped with a ringing sound from lunge to
parry. So fast did they fight that I found myself sitting there quietly in my
saddle looking on, never thinking for an instant that one snap shot from my
pistol would put an end to the affair. It was rapidly growing dark, but at that
distance I could have broken the soldier's sword blade while it was in play, had
I so wished. The man was certainly a master of fence and I soon saw that Barron
had no chance whatever with him. Still I never thought to fire upon a man
engaged with another in a fair fight. The cut in my cheek bled freely, but I
felt no pain or dizziness and was cool enough to think calmly. Once the thought
came to me to get the dead man's sword and take part in the unequal affray, but
I put it aside and made up my mind to shoot only at the last minute to save
Barron's life. Suddenly a new idea flashed through my head and I instantly
raised the pistol. The corporal's horse turned his nose in my direction and I
marked the white blaze between his eyes. "Crack!" And down both horse and rider
went, just as Barron whirled a wicked cut at the soldier's head. The old
Captain's weapon went wide and the Corporal jumped to his feet as lightly as a
cat and was on guard again before Barron fully realized what had happened.
"Come!" I cried. "Let him go!" And I galloped away down the road before I
finished speaking. Barron wheeled his horse to follow just as the soldier
started for him. In an instant the animals were together, running neck and neck,
with that Corporal within six feet of Barron's saddle, running as I had never
seen a man run before. Away we went, and for a second or two I was afraid Barron
would be run through the back, but the pace proved a trifle too strong for our
enemy. Seeing this, the rascal made a vicious cut at Barron's mount and almost
hamstrung him, and then he dropped back while the poor animal hobbled ahead
desperately for several minutes, and finally brought up dead lame. "That man
will certainly prove he is equal to both of us," said Barron, "and put at
variance all laws of heredity, if we don't do something to stop him." "It's a
pity I didn't shoot him, for that was my last shot," I said. "Here he comes, and
unless you can hold him in check until I get a charge into this pistol, we will
indeed see Dunmore or the devil to-night." As I spoke the figure of the Corporal
showed through the gathering darkness, coming along the edge of the road at a
smart walk with his long sword in front of him. "You ride on ahead and let me
settle with him," said Barron, quietly. "It is uncommon shameful to have to run
from this vermin," I said, "but I had him at my mercy once and let him go." "So
had he you, my boy," laughed Barron. It did seem hard to have to get away from
this creature, the acknowledged offspring of a prostitute, but it was apparently
certain death to face him. I strove to get a charge into one of my pistols, but
by the time I had the powder in the barrel he was up with us. He saw what I was
about and instantly started for me. And then, yes, I shall have to confess it,
then I put spurs to my mount and went down that dark road as though thirty
devils were at my heels. The corporal's long sword could not reach me, so he
soon gave up the chase and turned his attention to Barron. In another minute my
pistol was loaded and I was riding back again as fast as I could. Barron had
dismounted and they had just begun a passage as I rode up. I was almost beside
myself with rage and I rode close to the soldier to be certain of my aim. I
meant to end matters and would run no risk at night, so I shot quick and sure
for the centre of the man's body and had the satisfaction of seeing him double
up and drop in the roadway. Barron stooped over him and picked up his long
straight sword. He looked at it for a moment and then passed it to me. It was a
very heavy weapon and as sharp as a razor. "Come," said Barron, "let us carry
him into the bushes and go ahead." The form of the soldier moved slightly as he
spoke. "I thought you killed him," he continued, and he sprang forward with his
sword drawn back for a final thrust. "Hold on!" I cried, "he's dead unless made
of iron," and I jumped down from my horse and bent over the fallen man just as
he started to raise himself. "His belt! Quick!" I cried, and I grasped him
around the body with all my strength. Before he fully realized what was taking
place, we had his elbows lashed fast behind him and I had a chance to find out
why he not was dead. My bullet had struck him just below the breast bone and
over the heart, but between him and it was the cross belt buckle-plate of his
uniform. The lead had flattened on this, but the stroke of the ball had sent him
to the ground unable to move for over a minute. "You are a most disputatious
man, Mr. Soldier," said Barron, good humoredly, "and at one time you had nearly
all the facts necessary to establish the truthfulness of your side of the
argument. I hope you are now convinced of the value of good breeding, and will
not, in the future, thrust yourself into company uncongenial to your taste.
However, you shall now accompany us to the Inn, for I would hardly trust you to
return to Mr. Johnson alone to-night." "Had I believed you were not too scared
to return," said the soldier, looking straight at me, "I would have followed you
and killed you. Your horse is a good runner." "And for such an absurd mistake, I
very nearly killed you," I answered. "Had I known you were so bent upon
mischief, I would have sent your soul to the devil some twenty minutes ago. We
will now go back and get your mate's horse and you will walk between us the rest
of the way." In a few minutes we were back to where the dead soldier lay and
Barron was soon mounted upon his animal--which, by the way, was mine, as were
also the other three, and it caused me some little regret to lose two of them on
account of this hard headed soldier. We carried the dead man to the roadside and
laid him in bushes. Then we proceeded quietly upon our way, and the moon rose
like a huge ball of silver to light up the dark road. CHAPTER IX

Pendleton's Inn, as you may remember, was a famous place in its time. Colonel
George Washington often stopped there, and Mr. Patrick Henry often held a group
of listeners spellbound with his peculiar eloquence on its wide verandah. So
proud was the proprietor of his distinguished guests, that the bed Colonel
Washington usually slept in, and even a certain chair at the head of the dining
room table, in which it was claimed he generally sat, have been preserved and
pointed out to new-comers as objects of peculiar interest. As for me, I have
been to hardly a single house between New York and Richmond that has not boasted
of possessing some of the Washington furniture, and I have been somewhat
sociable in my habits. Pendleton himself was a sad rake. But his hospitality was
known to the young men for miles around, and his house was often used as a
meeting place on Sunday afternoons, when the gentlemen would indulge themselves
in such exciting sports as cock-fighting and rat killing. Sometimes affrays of a
more sanguinary nature occurred within the limits of its broad orchard, but
these happened seldom, and, on the whole, the Inn was considered respectable
enough for any lady in the commonwealth. "I could not have stood it much longer,
my dear Richard," said my mother, the morning after our arrival. "I am too old
for such scenes as that which happened at the Hall. I have not slept since Mary
was taken away, and I have not had my bath for two days. All the servants ran
away from that odious Captain and his terrible men. The only ones I have with me
here are old Mammy Liza and Mary Jane Johnson. They were so old the men took no
notice of them, so they hobbled all the way over here to me. But they cannot do
anything, let alone fix my bath. And poor Rose, she has been so quiet. Not a
word has passed her lips and she walks to and fro in her room with her head held
tightly in her hands. The shock to her young nerves at seeing such revelry has
completely unstrung her. Mammy Liza said she had delirium last night, for she
heard Rose scream 'villain' and 'scoundrel' at the top of her voice, and when
she looked into her room she was sitting in bed with her hands clenched and her
eyes staring into vacancy." "I suppose she will not breakfast with us, then," I
said. "I doubt it, but when I tell her you and Captain Barron are to take us to
Williamsburg, she may make her appearance in time. You will not leave before we
get some news of Will and Lord Dunmore, will you?" "Possibly not," I answered,
"but it is hardly worth while to stay here. It is not likely the Governor will
send a party this far inland after us, and as for Will, he will have no message
of importance, even if he has a chance to send one. The Governor is in a hurry
to get out of the river, for the climate does not agree with him. He is probably
now as far down as Jamestown on his way out." While I was speaking, Barron made
his appearance, accompanied by old Pendleton and half a score of armed men who
had camped in the barn over night. These militiamen were on their way to join
the forces under Colonel Henry, and they were armed and dressed in the most
fantastic manner. They had just visited our prisoner, the Corporal, who was
confined in a box-stall in the stable, and were in high good humor at the
soldier's fierce threats and wild vaporings. Barron left these men on the far
end of the verandah and came up and saluted my mother. "I shall wait upon you,
madam," he said, "just as soon as I ride over to my lodgings at the Widow
Brown's house and attend to some little private matters there. It is not likely
I will be back this way before next year, and I reckon I had better tell my
landlady so. I think, however, that the Governor has made his last trip up the
river, and, if that is the case, you can soon go back and remain unmolested at
the Hall. But here comes our host, and he looks as if he had some matters of
importance to communicate." "Matam ees sarved wid her bickfust," spoke up old
Pendleton, giving my mother a sweeping bow as he approached. "In that case we
will all go in together and fortify ourselves for the coming ride," I said, and
I led the way to the table with my mother on my arm. We no sooner sat down than
Miss Carter made her appearance. It was so late the night before when we arrived
that I had not had a chance for more than a word of greeting with her, so she
received Barron and myself very graciously. In spite of her pleasant manner, I
noticed the large blue eyes--I had seen only to admire so often before--were
swollen and red, and the poor girl appeared to have suffered much. A man must be
very selfish when in love, for it was quite plain to me that she was suffering
more than I, yet I would not have had Harrison back there at that moment, had I
been certain of his conventional behavior with my sister Mary. There is no use
of denying it, I felt almost glad that he had run off with my sister. I was sure
Mary loved him, and I reasoned that no harm could happen to her. I was equally
certain Byrd would soon reappear with the news that she and Harrison were
happily married. I was furious to see this beautiful woman breaking her heart
for another, but was glad that his act was irrevocable and left the field clear
for myself. Barron waxed especially lively during the meal and ordered some of
Pendleton's new cider, suggesting that Miss Carter and my mother drink some to
refresh themselves for lack of sleep. "It is weak enough, I reckon," said he,
"for I call to mind the time Bullbeggor and I stopped here last year. His
nigger, Snake in the Grass, had never seen this stuff, for the Major sticks
pretty well to stronger waters. One cold night I gave the rascal a bottle filled
with the stuff and told him to be careful with it, as it was very good. He
sneaked off after supper into the woods and the Major couldn't find him again
that evening. About midnight, while we sat smoking and talking, we heard a knock
at the door. I went into the entry and opened it, and there was Snake, shivering
and shaking with cold. 'What's the matter, Snake?' I asked, when I got him
inside. 'Oh, Marse Barron, yo' dun me mean,' he said, 'I went outen the woods to
drink dat stuff on de quiet, an' I dun set thar fo' hours waitin fo' de drunk tu
come--an' I'se nearly froze. Yessah, yo' dun me mean, suh; sho' nuff mean, an'
I'se nearly froze.'" "Major Bull, he stopped here de oder day wid his nigger,"
added Pendleton. "How about his shoulder, was it paining him much?" I asked.
"His shoulder! Nien it was a leedle hole, de pain shooded all through him. He
has dem shooding pains always shooding through him. Dey was only leedle pains.
Mein Gott! I never see de Major, but wid a leedle shooding pain." "Then he went
on and joined the militia at Williamsburg as he intended?" asked Miss Rose. "Not
only that," I put in, "but it was he who did some little fighting with that
Captain Fordyce in the little skirmish below here the other day." "And perhaps
that is why the Captain acted as he did at the Hall. People are usually judged
by the company they keep, and they all had heard of the duel," said Miss Rose,
with a little sting of resentment in her voice. "If that be really so, people's
judgments are most unjust, for a man certainly cannot always choose his own
companions," I replied. "I think he can," she answered. "God grant that it be
even so," I said, quietly, and I caught her eye for an instant. Barron was
laughing and looking at my mother, but Miss Carter appeared to take no notice of
him and continued to eat her egg with more ill tempter than appetite. When we
were through the meal, Barron rode over to his lodgings and then returned within
an hour. After that we had the horses brought up, and he and I acted as
outriders to my mother and Miss Carter, who rode in Pendleton's chaise with old
Mammy Liza and Mary Jane on the rear seat. One of my field hands, who came over
to the Inn, acted as driver. Pendleton was to collect the rest of my people and
take care of them until my mother was ready to return to the Hall. We started
off with a contingent of the militia bringing up behind us as a rear guard, and
among them walked the Corporal with his belt strapped about his elbows behind
him. It was something uncommon in the way of a procession, as we rode slowly
down the old Virginia turnpike. Barron, sitting his horse in an easy, soldierly
fashion, riding on one side of the carriage, and I riding on the other, while
the motley men with muskets and squirrel rifles, having the English corporal in
their midst, came straggling along through our thick yellow dust-cloud in the
rear. The sun shone brightly and the birds sang merrily in the fields and
woodlands, so our spirits rose, and even Miss Carter began to smile at Barron's
jests. The long, heavy sword I captured from the Corporal jangled uncomfortably
from my belt, and it, together with my two silver mounted pistols, which I now
carried in full view, gave me a most warlike appearance. But my clothing was of
the latest fashion, and even my shoes showed the marks of care my poor boy Sam
had bestowed upon them. But if I attracted some attention from the neighboring
farmers, I hardly know what amount of interest was excited by the looks of our
strange followers. Some of these had their hair long and matted, hanging down
over blouses or hunting shirts of deer skin, giving them an almost wild look.
Their long rifles had the old fashioned heavy flint and wide primer and were of
small calibre, best fitted for hunting squirrels and such game. But their powder
horns held enough ammunition for a campaign, and they were all tolerable shots.
Those who carried muskets appeared perfectly contented that their weapons made a
loud noise and asked for nothing better than a range at which it would be almost
impossible to miss an enemy--or hit a friend. Some carried old swords of the
most unusual patterns,--looking as though they might have once done good duty as
scythes,--and all carried knives. A young clown, from one of the upper counties,
carried a musket with fixed bayonet and had the impudence to try and force the
Corporal to put him through the manual of arms, even threatening to blow the
soldier's head off if he gave an improper order. All of them were entirely
without discipline, and all gave orders and offered suggestions at one and the
same time. This, of course, invariably ended in a dispute that had to be settled
by long arguments, in which all who wished to took part. Several times, during
their bickerings, they fell far behind us, only to catch up again later on, and
all day long their hilarious songs, accompanied by frequent fusilades of rifle
shots, kept us in excellent knowledge of their whereabouts. At noon we passed
Doncastle's ordinary, where the affair of the gunpowder brought about the first
distinct rupture between Lord Dunmore and the people. Everything appeared quiet
and peaceful and the place showed no signs of war. We had little conversation on
the ride, and I found myself thinking a great deal of my poor boy Sam and Will
Byrd. Will, I felt sure, would take care of the wounded fellow and endeavor to
prevent him from falling into other hands, and I believed Sam would soon get
over his hurt, for he was a powerful nigger, broad-built and with good pluck. I
tried to imagine what would happen to Harrison if Sam ever met him before
matters were peacefully settled. But then I knew that Harrison would not return
to his plantation until the war was over, and I believed it would be a long time
before peace reigned again in the colonies. At intervals during the ride I came
close to the carriage and endeavored to engage Miss Carter's attention, but she
appeared so sad and listless that, out of sheer pity, I forbore to worry her
with my presence. Once I thought I noticed her looking at me intently with a
curious, searching expression in her eyes for some moments, but when I turned my
gaze in her direction she immediately stared vacantly at the scenery ahead. I
told my mother of my intention of joining the forces under Mr. Henry, and
strange to say she did not appear to be either surprised or disappointed. On the
contrary, she began instantly to give me all manner of advice about taking care
of myself when camping in the field, and above all implored me never to expose
myself to the danger of getting shot. "It is absurd," said she, "that a
gentleman should expose himself to the hurts which belong to the common, vulgar
soldier. A true general always takes care of himself, for with him rests the
care of the whole army. Should anything happen to the officer in command, what,
oh what would become of those poor fellows dependent upon him for his high
courage and intelligence? They would certainly be lost, and it is for them, my
dear Richard, you should sacrifice all brute feelings of ferocious courage and
keep yourself in hand." Barron agreed with her in her sentiments, and she made
him promise faithfully that he would never leave my side in the hour of danger,
and never allow me to be carried away by my youthful ardor; all of which he did
with a grave countenance, and some little ceremony, in spite of a little
frivolity on my part. In the late afternoon we caught sight of the white tents
of the militia, and soon afterwards we were entering the quaint old town of
Williamsburg. We headed for my uncle's house, which stood near the college, in
the best part of the town, for my uncle's wife, Aunt Jane, as I called her, was
a person of some prominence, and was of the ancient family of O'Brian, which, as
you know, was once royal. The streets were full of men from the surrounding
country, who gathered in groups as we passed, and pointed at us and stared as
though we were something remarkable. But they were all rough men, who had never
seen much, and belonged to the outlying settlements and farms where no gentleman
ever gets, except by hunting or some mishap. The men who appeared to be soldiers
wore no regular uniform, and might have passed for a lot of armed yokels
starting out on a coon hunt. As we drew near our destination we heard the sound
of galloping horses, and presently several mounted men came riding around the
corner ahead of us. I recognized Patrick Henry and Colonel Woodford at a glance.
The former had made himself a colonel of militia and rode a powerful grey horse
at the front of the groups, while on either hand rode Colonel Woodford and
Colonel Bullet. Behind them came several other gentlemen, well known along the
James river for their anti-British politics. Among them I recognized Major
Bullbeggor and also Mr. Jacquelin, who had been captured by Fordyce, and who had
escaped from his captors by running while they were suddenly confined in his
wine cellar. Still farther in the rear rode some mounted servants, with Snake in
the Grass in their midst. The Major saluted with a flourish as he rode past, as
did the rest of the officers, and Snake's hat continued to rise and fall while
his nodding, grinning face was turned towards us until the cavalcade disappeared
in the direction of the encampment behind the college. On arriving at our
destination, we received a warm welcome from my aunt Jane and cousin Marion.
Although my uncle, Thomas Burns, Esq., had died some years before, my aunt and
cousin were living in the most comfortable circumstances. While they lived
simply in their large mansion, they had an abundance of home comforts and many
house servants, and cousin Marion, though only sixteen, was considered one of
the wealthiest as well as prettiest women in Virginia. Aunt Jane was well known
for her kind acts of charity and hospitality, so you may be sure there was
nothing lacking for our comfort on our arrival at her house. In spite of this
Barron and I were all eagerness to go to the camp and report to Colonel Henry--
as we now heard him called--for duty. Even the prospect of a few hours alone
with Miss Carter and my pretty cousin Marion, was not enough to curb my
impatience to be among the men, who I now felt certain would make some history
to be handed down through all time. I know Marion laughed at my warlike
appearance, but I changed that a little by fixing my pistols under my coat and
hitching up my heavy broadsword until it cocked up as prettily behind as a
rapier. In this attire I bade my pretty cousin good-bye, with cousinly
privilege, and bowed low to Miss Carter. Then Barron and I mounted our horses
and rode off with Marion's laugh ringing after us. She was a very pretty girl
and as good as ever lived, but I thought very little about her as we rode down
the main street in the direction of Colonel Henry's headquarters. CHAPTER X

The first person we met on arriving in front of Colonel Henry's house was our
old friend, Major Bullbeggor. "I am feeling pretty peart, Mr. Judkins," he
replied, in answer to my greeting. "That little punch Harrison gave me is almost
well, and besides a slight twitching of the bones and some little stiffening of
the joints, with a little pain shooting through them, I am feeling fine, sir.
Yes, sir, feeling like a bird, sir. But where on earth did you get that English
sword, and what brought you and your mother here so soon? Dunmore, for sure. No
fear! The rascal passed down the river this morning and I don't think he will
try coming up again. But what can we do without ships or guns? We gave them a
dusting on the island, the other day, and lost poor Jim Horn and three niggers
before leaving. Bullet and I had a hard time to get out, and Snake took a slight
hurt." "Yes, I heard all about it," I answered. And then Barron and I told how
we were captured and taken aboard the vessels, and how Harrison had served my
people at the Hall while we were absent. The Major's eyes flashed as we told the
story and his hand went nervously to his sword hilt. "I didn't hit him hard
enough," he said fiercely, when we had told of the actions of the soldiers at
the Hall. While we continued speaking, we were interrupted by an uproar which
arose from the street beyond the college, and on looking in that direction from
which the sounds proceeded we suddenly saw the figure of a man, covered
completely from head to foot with feathers, come running along the pavement
towards us. Behind him came a howling mob, armed with every conceivable sort of
weapon, and they pressed closely upon the runner's heels. The fugitive stopped
suddenly in front of me and spoke out--

"If you'll give me that sword of mine for a few minutes, I think I might show
these fools the absurdity of playing their infernal games upon one of his
Majesty's soldiers," he said coolly, and I instantly recognized the voice of the
corporal who had engaged us so hotly the day before. He was almost completely
hidden under his coat of tar and feathers, and the only part of his face visible
was his nose and eyes. Barron and the Major burst into uncontrollable laughter,
in which I joined. But the man's tormentors were upon him before I had even time
to consider his proposition. They surrounded him and began prodding him with
sticks and bayonets, shouting and jeering in derision. Bullbeggor was the first
of us to recover himself. He drew his sword and struck his spurs into his
powerful mare, making her spring forward through the crowd. He knocked down
several men in his path and reined up alongside the prisoner. "Disperse!" he
roared. "Break away!" And he struck some of the men nearest him with the flat
side of his blade. Barron and I spurred forward and joined him, for the natives
were waxing furious at this interruption and I noticed one man bringing his
musket to his shoulder. The Major saw the fellow in time to avert disaster, and
he leaned forward and smote the weapon so strongly that it fell from the
scoundrel's hands. Then we closed around the prisoner with our swords sweeping
at arm's length, and the Major thundered forth orders for the men to disperse,
threatening them with all sorts of military punishments if they did not. But
these wild men had no idea of discipline, and feared nothing, so they still
crowded sulkily around us, brandishing their weapons and cursing us heartily for
interfering with their sport. The uproar had been heard at headquarters, and
Colonel Henry appeared on the verandah accompanied by Colonel Bullet, Woodford,
and some other officers. Colonel Woodford roared out orders, and some of the men
about us turned to see who our new ally was. Then they suddenly recognized
Patrick Henry, as he stood there in his waistcoat on the verandah. There was
something in the calm dignity of Colonel Henry's manner that arrested all the
fierceness of these rough men's passions and drew attention to him as the magnet
draws soft iron. He stood there on the verandah and held out his hand over that
wild mob, and spoke, and in less than half a minute every man was silent and
listening. I cannot recall the words that fell from the lips of that grand
orator, and when I think of him standing there speaking, it seems to me it was
not the words at all that affected me, but the deep power of the man's nature. I
have heard men speak to men in my time, and have listened to some of the
eloquent words of those who have made history; but nothing I ever heard compared
to the power and force of those words that fell from the lips of that plain and
uncouth officer standing there on the verandah of that house in Williamsburg. He
spoke to that mob of honor and manhood, and of the grand things of war, and bade
them remember that mercy to a fallen enemy showed the difference between a
coward and a man. When he finished there was not one of that ruffian crowd who
looked squarely at his neighbor, and two minutes afterwards there were not six
of them in sight. The only person there who appeared in no way affected by
Patrick Henry's remarkable eloquence, was the English corporal. He looked
carelessly about him for a moment and then at Major Bullbeggor. "I have to thank
you," said he, "for interfering with those farmers, for as you see, I am
entirely unarmed and undressed--except for this growth of feathers. But I am no
chicken sir, in spite of them. No, sir, I'm hardly classed as a chicken--as
these two gentlemen with you might testify. "If the ugly old duck, there,"--and
he pointed to Barron--"would like to continue the argument we were engaged in
last night, I think I might persuade him of the fallacy of his ideas concerning
his birth and self importance." "You have most remarkable powers of logic,"
laughed Barron, "and if reason and sword-play were analogous I doubt not that
you could sustain your premise. But there are too many men like you in this
world who wish to maintain their point by reason of false analogy. Therefore, I
warn you that unless you mend your speech I shall turn you over again to Colonel
Gibson's lambs, and they will hardly let you off so easily the next time." "If
they are his lambs," replied the soldier, turning and looking at Colonel Henry,
"I take it he is a preacher, and now I mark it, the fellow has a most
ecclesiastical mode of speech. One would think him an itinerant minister,
holding forth to his flock of"--

"Silence! you dog," growled the Major, "know your betters, or I'll stretch you
on the wheel." Then he beckoned to an orderly who stood nigh the steps of the
house and in a moment the Corporal was led away to be scraped and scrubbed.
Barron and myself were then introduced to Colonel Henry, Woodford, and other
officers in the group, after which we were left to ourselves to discuss more or
less learnedly the probable outcome of affairs in the colonies, while the older
men went back to their duties. I knew little or nothing about military
organization, so when the talk drifted into certain channels I withheld my
speech. Before we left, however, Barron and I had been assigned volunteer
positions; he as captain of a company of farmers, and I as a lieutenant in it,
all under the command of Major Bullbeggor, who, in turn, belonged to Colonel
Bullet's regiment. Rank was a pretty hard thing to determine in those days, for
nearly everybody was addressed as "Colonel" or "Major," no matter what they were
in reality. Besides this, there were several jealous men in the Richmond
assembly who pretended to doubt Colonel Henry's military ability, and for a long
time I believed Colonel Woodford in command. The brave and gallant Bullet,
however, took the place assigned him without a word, as did Bullbeggor, Barron
and myself, and we strove to get some discipline into the hunters and farmers
who made up our rank and file. Gibson's Lambs, as his command of wild men were
called, were almost beyond the reach of discipline, and were little better than
Indians, so at one time Colonel Woodford was strongly tempted to disband the
whole outfit, but later on they began to show signs of intelligence and were
kept in ranks. We drilled and drilled, day after day, until finally we had the
satisfaction of heading a poorly armed, but fairly well organized, set of men.
During this period we had several times had news of Berkley Harrison. He and my
sister were apparently married and living happily together at Norfolk, but
strange to say not a letter or word came direct from either of them. Of Will
Byrd and Sam there had been no trace since they went aboard the frigate the
evening I left the Hall. Barron sent several messengers to Norfolk to find out
their whereabouts, but to no purpose. Whenever I had time to spare from the
camp, I usually came over to see my mother and cousin Marion. Miss Carter had
seldom put in appearance until the day Snake in the Grass brought the news of
Harrison and my sister living so happily together. Then her manner toward me
instantly changed, and instead of being out of sight she always put in
appearance whenever I called at my aunt's house. This amused me not a little,
but I was not ready to indulge her whims too quickly, so I put off matters until
I finally became so entangled with my pretty cousin that I was on the point of
doing something foolish. But sometimes unforseen incidents happen that pull a
man out of a drifting current. One evening my cousin was not feeling well, so
Miss Carter and I took a long walk around the encampment and visited Lord
Dunmore's deserted palace. As we walked along the sound of a nigger singing
arrested our attention. It was Snake's voice, and his deep bass notes rang
weirdly through the gathering darkness. Snake had a strange habit of fitting all
his feelings into song, and now he sang in deep mournful notes

"Dere is trouble ober heah                   An' dere's trouble ober dar-r
An' I really do believe dere's trouble everywhar-r                   Trouble,
troub-ll                   Trouble, troub-ll          Oh dere's trouble on de
ol' man's mine." We tried to stop him as he rode past us, but he pretended not
to see or hear us, and rode away in the direction of the Major's quarters.
"Snake has a sorrowful mood upon him this evening," said Miss Carter, after the
singing had died away in the distance. "And by the same token, I reckon, there's
some bad news ahead," I answered, "and we might as well go to the Major's and
find it out." When we reached there, we found that orders had just come for us
to move to Norfolk and take part in the operations against the British. I was
glad the news was no worse, and I must say I felt a great relief, in spite of
those I must leave behind me. This was my last evening to spend with my people,
and I determined to know my fate in a certain direction, so I recalled a few
things to Miss Carter that had passed between us. "My dear Dick," she said, "you
have a most charming cousin. Why don't you marry her?" "In the first place, she
would not marry me; and in the second, she is hardly to my way of thinking," I
replied. "But you might alter your thoughts and ask her; she is pretty, wealthy,
and a lady born," said Miss Carter. "So was your grandmother," I replied, "but
that fact does not presuppose any love for her on my part, charming as she still
is. You also have the qualities you have just mentioned, and you, you only, do
I, or can I ever love." "If that is so, I shall be blessed with a most stupid
husband," said Rose--and that was all. I bade her good-night at my aunt's front
door and I think, or rather hope, it was quite dark. Then I went on my way
whistling, as happy as a boy. The days that followed in the mud and rain near
Norfolk, were disheartening enough, but I never for an instant despaired. My
whole life seemed filled with a great coming joy, and even old soldiers like
Barron and Bullbeggor wondered at my never-failing spirits. There were nearly a
thousand of us, badly armed and half-frozen men, under the command of Colonel
Woodford, camped at the end of the causeway known as Great Bridge. It was
December, and the weaker men fell away rapidly, until there were scarcely two
hundred able riflemen left in the trenches on the night of the eighth. I was
lying in my tent on this night, listening to the rain and thinking happy
thoughts of the joys in store for me when I should return to the Hall and marry
the beautiful girl I loved. Barron slept with me and was snoring away at a great
rate for it was long past midnight. I had just made up my mind to cease building
air-castles and follow his example, and had fastened the tent flies and
stretched myself out comfortably in my wet blanket, when a noise outside
startled me. It sounded like the stealthy tread of someone bent on a secret
purpose, which, at this hour and place, would probably be anything but good. I
reached carefully for my pistol and noiselessly cocked back the flint, and then
stared through the inky darkness toward the tent fly. I lay listening for a
moment or two longer and then was aware of something moving under the canvas at
my side. In an instant I clapped the muzzle of my pistol to it and called out,
"Stop!" "For God's sake, take your pistol away and let me in, quick!" said a
well known voice, and the next instant Will Byrd was inside the tent. Another
form followed his and for a moment I was almost smothered by Sam's embrace.
"What time is it?" asked Will, quickly. "Not quite three, I believe," I
answered. "But for heaven's sake, how did you get"--

"Hurry, then, we have just about time," interrupted Will, paying no attention to
my question. "They attack you at daylight. We have just escaped, and came
through the swamp to avoid being taken by these farmers and held until too
late"--

"Hello! What's the matter? Who's that?" cried Barron, starting up from his
blanket. "Will and Sam," I said, "They've just come over. The grenadier company
from the fort will be on the causeway in an hour." And in less than a minute all
of us were on our way to Colonel Woodford's tent to tell him the news. Little
noise was made as we gathered our men at the end of the causeway, and as we
hurried about Will told me, between breaths that my sister Mary and Harrison
were living in the town of Norfolk where Will had been held close prisoner until
an hour or two before. He had failed to gain the good will of the governor on
going back to the frigate after our flight, and both he and Sam were closely
confined. As soon as Sam was able to work, he was taken out and sent, with a lot
of other captured slaves, to help strengthen the fortifications of the town.
Here he heard the news of the proposed attack and managed to liberate Will and
escape with him in time to warn us. "When was Mary married, and at what church?"
I asked breathlessly. But Will suddenly turned away and did not answer and,
taking an old musket from a farmer, pretended to be busily engaged in fixing the
flint. I was working hard with my men, trying to get an old twelve pounder into
position to sweep the bridge, but the wheels of its carriage were so rotten and
stuck so deeply in the mud, that they finally broke down completely, leaving the
gun useless. As the gray dawn of the winter morning deepened, objects began to
grow more distinct. We shivered in our wet clothes and strained our eyes in the
direction of the fort that covered the farthest approach to Great Bridge.
Something moved in the dim distance. Slowly and surely it drew nearer, and then
we saw the head of the British column coming silently over the long causeway. I
shook from head to foot with cold and excitement, and was so ashamed because I
did so, I felt like doing something foolish to prove my courage. It was very
trying to stand there on that cold, wet morning and not even speak above a
whisper, or move more than a foot or two, while that column, with a company of
grenadiers in the van, made its way to within speaking distance of us. The enemy
was so close that, even in that bad light, the features of the men were easily
distinguished, and their hard, bronzed faces looked strangely fierce from under
their tall grenadier hats. Then a nervous rifleman on my left blazed off his
priming, and the next instant a hundred rifles rang out from the breastworks
into a deep, rolling roar. The head of the column seemed to melt away like an
icicle in the sunshine. Men pitched over each other in a tangled heap of guns,
arms and legs. But the rest behind them came steadily onward, firing together in
volleys that sounded like a single report. Our line fairly flamed with rifle
flashes, and the men yelled and shouted at each discharge, until the blending of
yells and musket firing became almost deafening. Suddenly the column wavered.
Then backward it went and appeared almost on the point of breaking. Officers
waved their swords and shouted furiously at the men, and like the gallant
soldiers they were, they closed up and came onward again with a scorching fire
that seemed to fairly fill the air with flying lead. A bullet cut the coon-skin
cap from the head of an old hunter at my elbow, but he never even winced, and
coolly bit the end off his cartridge and rammed the lead home as if making ready
to fire at a target. They were within twenty paces of us now, and I fired my
pistols with the certain knowledge that the bullets would strike within an inch
of the spot at which I aimed. The officer leading the grenadiers sprang forward
upon the breastwork, gave a shout to his men, and then, waving his sword, he
brought it down with a sweep at my head. He was a brave fellow, and I did not
know it was Fordyce until after my pistol bullet had passed through his body and
he had rolled back among his men. It was now almost hand to hand fighting, and
the hot blasts of the muskets, firing in our faces, scorched the skin and
blinded us so that nothing could be seen a few feet distant, but we had the
advantage of only having to expose our faces, whereas the enemy had to stand to
it in full view. I saw Colonel Woodford ride past the line within a foot of me,
sitting his horse easily in full view of the enemy, but he remained untouched.
The fight raged fiercely, but our men refused to be dislodged. The grenadiers
were forced backward on the causeway, where they rallied upon the tory infantry
coming to their support, and in a moment the smoke cleared away enough to see
them forming for another desperate charge. Again and again did they storm that
line of riflemen, and each time they were repulsed and forced onto the causeway.
Then, with great precision, they closed up and drew away, firing steadily as
they went, the tory infantry leading. A great shout went up from our victorious
soldiers, and Colonel Bullet leaped, sword in hand, over the breastworks and
called for the men to follow him. Bullbeggor pushed forward on the right, and
led half a score of men onto the causeway, but the British fired so steadily,
and kept their formation so well, that Colonel Woodford would not risk any
mishap to mar so grand a victory. The men were recalled, in spite of the gallant
Bullet's protests, but the rifle fire was kept up from the breastwork until the
enemy was well across and out of range. All along the line of that long causeway
they dropped from the ranks before the murderous fire of those Virginians, and
when they at last gained the protection of the guns of their fort on the other
side, there was not one grenadier left unhit. The rest of them broke and became
a disorganized mob, making for shelter where it could be found, while the way
now being clear the fort opened a heavy fire that soon kept our men under cover.
When I had time to look about me I was astonished at the small number of our
wounded. In that hot fire it seemed to me that nearly everyone must get hit. But
the poor light and breastworks had saved us many lives, and our victory was not
robbed of its joy by the presence of many dead and wounded comrades. Not over a
score of our men were hit, and only a few of these casualties resulted fatally.
Barron had his coat cut in three places by balls, for he had exposed himself
unnecessarily, and Bullbeggor had lost his hat and was bleeding from a scratch
on his forehead where a grenadier had made a pass at him with his bayonet and
then fired. The steel had cut the skin, but the bullet had missed and the
discharge had blackened the Major's face until it was the color of his
servant's. Snake wished to attend his master, but the Major waved him back and
insisted on taking no notice of his hurt. He stalked up and down the line of
men, with his drawn sword held before him, stopping now and then to see that a
rifle was properly primed, or that the men did not flinch too much from the
artillery fire and become disorganized in case of a renewal of the attack.
Finally the fire of the fort slacked up, and then ceased altogether, and we were
able to go about unmolested. Twenty dead grenadiers lay piled up at our end of
the causeway, their red coats stained with blood and dirt. Then, as the fever of
the fight died away in our veins, we looked out upon those silent corpses and
began to realize the grim glory of war. Will joined me then and we shook hands
silently over our success, and afterwards we started to do what we could for our
wounded men. CHAPTER XI

Shortly after the battle of Great Bridge the British evacuated Norfolk, and we
followed hard upon their heels. Will and I happened to be together in the
company that first entered the town, and we had some hot skirmishing before we
got well into the streets. He had told me little in regard to Harrison and my
sister, but his sad face and silent manner spoke plainer than words the thoughts
which were uppermost in his mind. Since the morning he crawled into my tent I
had refrained from asking any more questions. We had become separated from our
men in a smart rally about a tory house, whose inhabitants had fired upon us and
then fled, but Will continued to lead the way rapidly through the main streets
toward that portion of the city where resided the most prominent followers of
Lord Dunmore. Even as we appeared in the streets people fled towards the water
front, where the boats of the men of war were plying back and forth, taking the
fugitives aboard in great numbers. Suddenly Will stopped at a corner and looked
sharply across the street at a house whose closed blinds gave it a deserted
appearance. Almost instantly the front door opened and Berkley Harrison walked
out. He saw us and turned towards us for an instant; then bowing politely he
made his way down the street. "Stop! Hold on!" I cried, and I ran across to
intercept him. "Wait a moment, you have something to tell me," I continued as I
caught up with him. For answer he drew his sword and stood on guard. Will stood
silently watching us. "Hold on!" I cried. "Where is Mary? What do you mean by
that?" and I pointed to his drawn weapon. "Miss Judkins is upstairs," he said
coldly, and he drew himself up to his full height, while that scornful smile I
knew so well curled his lips. "If you wish to see her," he continued, "you will
probably find her at home." "But, Berk," I cried, "tell me, are you married, and
is she going with you? It's but a step to the frigate's boat and our men will
not come much closer. Tell me all about it, and how you intend to care for my
sister?" "You will have to excuse me, Mr. Judkins," said he. "I am not afraid of
your men, but every loyal man has left this town, and I must catch the last boat
to the frigate, where I have business of importance to attend to." Then I
realized the horrible truth that had begun to gain upon me since I noticed
Will's suspicious lack of knowledge of Harrison's affairs. I was satisfied that
Will had heard the true rumor of the affair, while he was confined in prison,
and now my wrath swelled beyond my control and burst forth. "You damned
villain," I said, almost in a whisper, and I had my sword before me. We went at
it; I with my blood afire, he with the coolness of a born villain, who neither
feared nor cared for anything. The rasping ring of sliding steel and the noise
of our shuffling feet were heard in the room above us, for in a moment a shutter
clanged open against the wall, and I heard my sister's voice shriek in dismay. I
turned my head partially to try and see her face and slipped on the wet
pavement. Then I felt something like a bar of hot iron passing through me and
Harrison's cold, villainous face was close to mine. There was a sickening
catching of the breath, but I sat my teeth hard as the scoundrel withdrew his
weapon. Then I reeled and fell to the pavement. But I would not go, quite.
Everything seemed to whirl around me, but I drew my right hand pistol and cocked
back the flint with fast weakening fingers. Harrison appeared in a fog, and to
be going up a steep hill close to me, and then suddenly to be descending a
frightful declivity as I raised my weapon slowly. The pavement seemed to heave
upward again, and I marked the look on his craven features--for he knew what he
was facing--and I pulled the trigger with the sight on his heart. At that
instant something struck the weapon from my hand, and I was aware of Will Byrd
standing over me with his sword outstretched. I was going fast, but I drew my
left pistol. Harrison was still standing near me, but appeared to be double. I
fired into him but an object seemed to pass between us and something fell
heavily to the pavement. Then I thought I saw the villain sheath his sword and
bow to me, with that same sneering smile on his face, and pass away out of sight
down the long street. I tried to raise myself to follow him and got to my knees,
then I pitched forward--

It was late in the evening when I regained consciousness, and found myself lying
on a cot in a house which appeared to be an improvised hospital, as there were
many wounded men about me. A wet compress lay upon my chest and each breath I
took caused me sharp pain. I looked at the cot next to mine and noticed a
familiar figure reclining there, and as I did so it sat up. Then I recognized
Will Byrd, but could not tell how either he or I came to be where we were. He
saw my eyes open, and gazed sadly and thoughtfully at me; then he spoke. "How is
it Dick, do you feel better?" he asked. "Yes," I whispered, "are you hurt too?"
"No, why?" "What are you lying there for?" Then I suddenly remembered. "Where's
Harrison?" I asked faintly, as the affair came back to me. Will looked
thoughtfully at me without speaking, and the expression of deep sadness came
over his face again. "Where is he?" I whispered. "His body was thrown into a
trench with some others outside the town," answered Will. "Then you killed him?
Or was it a dream, what?" I gasped. "Don't try to talk, Dick. You remember you
shot him, don't you? Hit him through the body. I knocked your first pistol away,
for your sister's sake, but you fired again before I could stop you. Don't talk
any more and you will come out all right. "There's not much dream about the
whole business, I only wish there was." CHAPTER XII

The evacuation of Norfolk by the British practically ended the war for a time in
Virginia, and Dunmore soon sailed away never to return. In a couple of weeks I
was on my feet again, very little the worse for the wound Harrison had given me.
Will had been with me all the time and Barron and the Major spent nearly all
their spare hours in the hospital. The companies had now begun to disband, that
is all except those who volunteered to join Washington's army at the north.
Colonel Woodford gave over his command to Colonel Howe, of North Carolina, and
after that he did little else than receive the praise he had so well earned.
Everywhere he was feted and applauded, until even the tories began to come over
to his way of thinking. My company broke up and the men either went home or
joined other commands, and I was given indefinite leave on account of my wound.
Will, who held no commission, made ready to go with me to Judkins' Hall. Now
that the fighting was over, Major Bullbeggor appeared to suffer acutely, and I
made up my mind that the only thing that would save the old soldier's life would
be for him to join the army in the north. "It's no use, Dick, my boy," said he,
the day before I left him. "I have these pains a'shooting all through me and a
vertigris in the skull. Why, I wouldn't be able to stand anything in that cold
climate. This twitching of the nerves and numbing of the bones certainly means
disintegration, sir; yes, sir, it certainly does mean something. Go and get
married, Dick, and try to get Will to join the army in the north. He will make a
splendid soldier, for there's nothing so desperate and dangerous in a fight as a
man crossed in love." "But, Major," I said, "you know the army needs just such
men as you to guide them in military affairs. It's your duty to go where your
country calls for you when you are a soldier." "I have a wife and six young
children, Dick, all of them mostly ailing. I've tried Miranda Jones' spring
medicine, and all of them have had Dr. McGuire bleed them until they could stand
it no longer, but it didn't do any good. They are all dependent on me. Who would
pay for their medicines if I should happen to fall ill and die?" "They would
probably be much better off if such an accident did happen to you," I answered,
laughing. "It's about time you let them alone. I certainly think you ought to
volunteer, or better still, raise a company with Will and myself in it. Then,
with Sam and Snake to look out for us, we might operate to some advantage."
"I'll think of it, Dick. I'll think of it, but I must go now to headquarters.
Good-bye!" And his lean hand closed upon mine with a hearty grip. Then he took
the bridle of his mare from Snake and vaulted lightly into the saddle. In a
moment he and his servant had disappeared around the corner of the street. I
wended my way to the house where Will and I were stopping and made ready for our
journey. The next day about dusk we landed at the Hall. Of course it is needless
for me to say much about our welcome, but my poor mother's joy at seeing us
again was nothing to her sorrow when Will had told the painful details of my
affair with Harrison. After Miss Carter heard the details of the fight she
appeared to regard me with secret horror for a few days, but then I knew all
women were much set against violence. "But where is Mary now?" my mother asked
of Will, after she had regained herself. "Nothing could induce her to remain in
sight of Dick," said Will, "so she sailed for England on one of Dunmore's
vessels the day we entered Norfolk." And that was the last time I ever heard him
mention my sister's name for years. Rose was not a very joyous bride a couple of
weeks later, but her tenderness and thoughtfulness made up for the lack of
passionate love, which I felt sure she would develop as the years went by, and
the memory of Harrison faded from her mind. One day, about a month after we were
married, I went to the stables to see about my horses getting their salt
properly. As I stood at the stable window, looking out towards the slave
quarters, I saw Will Byrd standing at the curve of the carriage drive, gazing
steadily at a slave woman who held a shining black pickaninny in her arms. The
slave woman sat under a tree and dangled some plaything over the child's face
and crooned to it. The day was cold, and I thought it strange that the woman
should sit there with the child, even though the little thing was carefully
wrapped up in a shawl. Will was evidently to my way of thinking, for he gazed
steadily at the child, and that strange look of deep sadness came over his face
like I had noticed before in the hospital at Norfolk. Then he turned and walked
slowly away, with his eyes cast upon the ground in front of him. Rose, who
always looks after the people, then came out of the house and went straight
toward the slave woman. She was evidently much upset at her carelessness in
exposing the child so long to the weather, for she bent tenderly over it and
kissed it, and then sent the woman away. Ten minutes later, while I was walking
through the grounds, attending to some necessary repairs, I saw the woman again,
sitting now on the low stone fence that separated mine from the now deserted
Harrison plantation. I walked up to her and reproved her sharply for keeping a
year old child out so long in such cold weather. "What is its name?" I asked.
"Marse Berk Harrison," she answered. "Let me see him," I said, and I took hold
of the child's arm to see if he was good and fat. It was a common practice to
name slave children after the families to whom they belonged. Then I pinched the
child's fat cheeks and a lot of black stuff, like burnt cork, came off on my
hand, showing a white skin beneath it. "Is he white?" I asked in astonishment.
"Oh, yes, Marse Judkins, he's white, but we keeps him black, 'cause I has to
take him so much with me to the quarters at the Hall." "Who is his mother?"
"'Deed I don't know, Marse Judkins. Poor Miss Jude Berry over to the forks, I
believe, but she's daid now this year gone--no two, last month--but her folks
give him to me to raise, 'cause I lives at his uncles, an' they tole me to keep
him black till he able to shift for hisself." "Don't bring him to my quarters
again," I said, and I handed her two pieces of gold. That is all. Perhaps it is
enough. The whole horrible truth dawned upon me and I staggered away. A week
later Will insisted that he had stayed out his visit at the Hall, and would join
the army for the campaign against the British on Long Island, near New York. The
same day Major Bullbeggor sent me an express that he would stop at the Hall and
get Will and myself to help organize a company for Washington's army. He and
Barron rode in a little later, accompanied by Snake in the Grass. The Major's
face was most peculiarity marked and tattooed by the explosion of the
grenadier's musket at the Great Bridge fight, and my mother hardly recognized
him. We made our preparations for departure within a few hours, and, accompanied
by Sam and Snake, rode away from the Hall. All the field hands were grouped at
the