CHAPTER I

LUCY ACTON

Old Harbour House stood about a mile from the Harbour. It confronted the town
which lay about one mile and a half off, right across a wide, romantic, heavily-
wooded ravine. The banks of this gap sloped softly and pleasantly into a plain
of meadows and two or three farms whose dyes of roof and cattle enriched the
verdure; and down there ran a river singing in measures of music as it flowed
into the Harbour and mingled its bright water with the brine of the deep beyond.
Above, on the placid slope of down close against Old Harbour Town, hung a
straggler building or two, lonely in importance, or consequential in some
trifling pomp of land; at the point of cliff on Old Harbour House side, a low,
pursy lighthouse wheezed at night a yellow gleam that was a home-greeting or
God-speed to some five score fishermen who dredged in these and further waters;
and on the brow confronting the lighthouse a venerable windmill revolved its
vans against the sky. It has been said that Old Harbour House stood. The house
takes its place as a beauty of the past. On Christmas Eve 1832, fire reduced it
to a few blackened walls. All through the long night the flames made a wild,
grand show; sea and land were illuminated for leagues and leagues. Out of the
ashes of the beautiful building sprang that commonplace phoenix, the local poet,
who celebrated the one tradition of Old Harbour Town in a copy of rhymes, of
which the first verse should be found imprinted on the title-page of this book.
The house, or at least the front of it, was built after a design by Inigo Jones.
The pediment was perforated by a circular window glazed with a casement whose
frame resembled the spokes of a ship's wheel. A variety of antique symbolism
resembling the hideous sculptures which sometimes close the chapters in books of
the seventeenth century, under-ran the eaves. The tall, narrow windows gleamed
blackly amidst the skeletons of the winter, or the coloured embroidery of the
summer creepers. The hall door was noble and hospitable in expanse. A carriage
drive swept from it on either hand the oval lawn to a handsome gate whose
supports were crowned by the arms of the Actons on the one hand and the arms of
a family into which one of the Actons had married on the other hand. One bright
morning in April in that memorable year 1805, Captain Charles Acton, R.N.
(retired), stood on his lawn in front of the house watching a gardener who was
at work at a flower-bed. He was a slightly-built but tall, very gentleman-like
man, one of the last in a crowd to be picked out as a seafarer. He was pale, his
nose aquiline, lips thin, and the expression of the mouth firm. He was dressed
in a frill shirt, loose cravat of white cambric, red-striped waistcoat, long
green coat with a high collar and small cuffs, tight breeches to the ankle
buttoned to the middle of the thigh, and top-boots; a rather low-crowned, broad-
brimmed hat sat somewhat cocked on his head. His hair was long, without powder,
and tied a little way down the back in a sort of tail. He was suddenly hailed
from the gate by a loud, hearty voice. "What cheer! How are ye, Captain, how are
ye this fine morning? Have you heard the news?" The gate was thrust open and
there entered Rear-Admiral Sir William Lawrence, a round-faced, bullet-headed
seaman of the old type. He was dressed in a bottle-green coat, metal buttons,
red waistcoat, knee breeches and stockings, shoes and large buckles; and being
totally bald he wore a wig, perched at the back of which was a little round hat.
Sir William again asked Captain Acton if he had heard the news. "French landed?"
enquired Captain Acton, as they strolled away from the flower-bed and paced the
grass, in which the daisies were springing, in a quarterdeck walk, the Admiral
taking about one and a half rolling steps to Captain Acton's one. "Yes, the
French have landed, but not just in the way they like. One of our frigates--I
haven't got to hear her name--chased a French privateersman ashore five miles up
the coast yesterday afternoon; after taking out of her ten thousand pounds in
gold, which the beggars had sneaked from a British West Indiaman off Dungeness
two or three nights before, they set her on fire. I had a mind this morning to
ride over and view the wreck or what remains of her." "Lucy told me at breakfast
this morning that on going to bed last night she noticed a faint tinge in the
air as of the rising moon away to the eastward. 'Twas the burning wreck, I
presume?" "No doubt. She'd light up a wide area." "I expect the frigate that
chased her will be one of the Western squadron," said Captain Acton. "How finely
those ships are doing their work! Since they've been sweeping these waters
scarce a French picaroon dare put his nose out; when before, the seas swarmed
like a tropic calm with bristling fins of sharks." "You have to thank Pellew for
the idea of those squadrons," said Sir William. "What a gallant fellow he is!
Whenever I hear his name I recall the story told of him when he was a
midshipman. He was aboard the _Blonde_. You remember Pownoll?" Captain Acton
nodded. "General Burgoyne arrived alongside to ship for America. The yards were
manned. The General climbed aboard, and looking aloft spied a youngster standing
on his head on the main topsail yard-arm. 'It's only young Pellew, one of my
midshipmen,' says Captain Pownoll. 'But suppose he falls, sir?' said the
General. 'Why, sir,' answers Pownoll, 'if he falls he'll sink under the ship's
bottom and come up t'other side.'" "Yes. Very characteristic. I rank Pellew
after Nelson." "Why, no, sir." "Who, then?" "I consider Cochrane possesses all
the potentialities of Nelson. Then gallant old Jervis"--the Admiral interrupted
himself and gazed with an arch leer at his companion. "As you know, I have had
the honour," said Captain Acton with slight sarcasm, "to serve under my Lord St
Vincent when he was Sir John Jervis, I may claim to know him." "Oh yes,
thoroughly--very thoroughly." "I admit the gallantry of his action with the
Pegase. It was as brilliant as a hundred other actions between single ships, not
one of which nevertheless brought the victor an earldom. What made Jervis a
Lord? Was it his own, or the genius of Nelson? That manoeuvre of the Commodore
on the 14th won the battle. We took four ships from the enemy, and two of them
were captured by Nelson. But I dislike St Vincent for opinions which he is at no
pains to disguise. He objects to the education of the poor." "So do I, sir,"
said Sir William. "We'll not argue the point. St Vincent objects to inoculation
for small-pox because he says that that disease is intended by God to keep the
population down." Sir William laughed. "He objects to service clubs. He said to
a friend of mine, 'Take my advice and have nothing to do with them; they are one
of the signs of the times of which I highly disapprove; these assemblies of Army
and Navy may in time become dangerous to the Government.' When he was Commander-
in-Chief he strongly discouraged matrimony. He hated to have married officers in
his fleet, for he said they were the first to run into port, and the last to
come out of it. I do not wonder that they declined to drink his health at Bath."
"I never heard of that," said Sir William. "It was in 1802; a Naval dinner was
given at Bath--St Vincent was First Lord, I need not tell you--his health was
proposed and refused to be drunk by many of the company. The party broke up in
confusion; some toasted him in a bumper and left the room; others turned down
their glasses and sat still. And you would rank this old gentleman next after
Nelson?" "Talking of Nelson," said Sir William, "have you heard the yarn that is
told of Tom Cooke, the actor? He came on in the part of old Barnwell, and when
stabbed forgot the words, and would have died speechless. His murderer whispered
with agitation, 'For heaven's sake, say something--anything,' on which Tom,
throwing up his little three-cornered hat, shouted in his thick lisp, 'Nelson
for ever!' and died amidst louder applause than was ever provoked by the finest
strokes of Garrick or Siddons." The story was to Captain Acton's taste, and he
laughed with enjoyment. "I should like," said the Admiral, "to have met Nelson.
In all my going a-fishing I never fell in his way." "Well," said Captain Acton,
"I may say of Nelson as Pope said of Dryden: _Virgilium tantum vidi_. I was on
the Hard when two Naval officers came ashore. I was thinking of other matters,
and scarcely observed them until they were abreast or a little past me. Then my
glance going to one I instantly perceived he was Nelson. His companion, I
believe, was Troubridge. In the glimpse I got of Nelson's face I was struck by
its paleness and careworn appearance. He looked at least fifteen years older
than his age. They passed rapidly out of sight. I cannot express the emotions
which that one-armed little figure excited in me--St Valentine's Day, the Nile,
Copenhagen!" "And how much more?" cried the Admiral, with a flush in his cheek,
and with that expression of triumph and pride which lighted up the eyes of men
in those days when they pronounced the magic name of Nelson. "I should like, I
should much like to meet him, to see him, to grasp his hand, for a minute only
before my windlass is manned for the next world." "Who knows what lies before
us?" said Captain Acton. "Little enough before me, sir," exclaimed Sir William.
"Sailors dream of a cottage ashore, but when they come to it--I like my little
perch: 'tis not Old Harbour House," says he, casting his eye over the building,
"but I could wish the sea were within range of its windows. I was down in the
Harbour yesterday admiring the lines of your _Minorca_. She lay upright on the
mud, awash to her garboard strake about, and I liked her lines in the run, and
believed I could see a hint to our shipwrights in the cleanness and beauty of
her entry." "She is a pretty example of the French form," said Captain Acton. "I
think I told you she was built at Bordeaux, from which port some elegant
structures are sent afloat. But the French cannot approach the Americans as
shipbuilders. Take that schooner of mine, the _Aurora_--by the way, she is due
here shortly. I wish she may not have been taken by the enemy." "I admire your
venture," said the Admiral. "I believe if I could muster two or three thousand
pounds I should be disposed to purchase a prize or two from the French, Spanish,
or Yankees and follow your lead. Good interest on money is hard to get. Your
ships do well for you, sir." "I am quite satisfied," exclaimed Captain Acton
complacently; "but, as you know, I was mainly actuated by the desire to promote
the trade of this decaying place. The inheritance of this property," said he,
sending his gaze over the wide grounds agreeably wooded afar by orchards whose
boughs in a season's yield supplied cider enough to keep a parish merry through
several generations, "brought with it urgent obligations. I could not view Old
Harbour going to pieces without a resolution to do something that might serve to
keep it together." "You will add to your ships?" said Sir William. "I think not.
The prospect must brighten before I increase my fleet. The war risks are
stupendous. I never see one of my vessels quit her berth, but that I say to
myself, 'When I next hear of you, you'll be at Cadiz or Dunkirk, or at the
bottom of the sea.'" Sir William Lawrence halted in the quarterdeck walk the two
were taking upon that bright green oval lawn, and looked at the ocean which ran
in a white line, pale and faint as ice at the horizon, betwixt the two points of
the ravine crowned on the right by the lighthouse and on the left by a windmill;
but the waters of the Channel broadened down from their pearl-like margin into a
delicate blue, which changed into dark green and brown as the sea shoaled into
the land. The Admiral seemed to find something to delight him in the prospect,
and Captain Acton standing at his side viewed a scene, very familiar indeed to
him, with pleasure, which increased with the attention he gave it. Indeed no
piece of English landscape could have looked fairer on this fine April morning
than Old Harbour Town and its Harbour, and little forefinger of pier; the
windmill and the lighthouse resembled carvings, so delicately were their
outlines traced against the silver blueness of the spring sky. In the Harbour
against the wharves were visible the mounting masts and yards of several craft
with sails hanging loose to dry, and the water of the Harbour was dotted with a
few squab shapes of smacks and the figure of a moored brig-of-war. The picture
was tender and mellow with colour: the springing lights of the early growths of
the young year, the venerable face of the cliff as it swept from the slope of
down where the windmill was to the beach, the slow motion of violet shadows over
green distances; and the impression of placid provincial life was heightened by
the calm in the air which was scarcely vexed by the remote silver ringing of a
chapel bell in High Street, Old Harbour Town. "I often wish I was at sea again!"
exclaimed Sir William, as the two started afresh on their quarterdeck walk.
"What a noble, open, hearty, soul-stirring life it is! What good fellows one
meets, what brave ships, what splendid crews! It is my hourly regret that my son
should be out of it. Though I am his father, I say that this young man had in
him--nay, he has in him--all the makings of a fine, dashing, even a great
officer. But that devil drink--not that the vice is immoderate with him: but he
takes too much; and when the fiend is in him, all that is weak in his nature
appears, and he falls: drink--but not so as to justify the word drunkard--drink
and gaming--these undid him. He was a favourite with all he sailed with, and
yet, through his own accursed folly, he is forced to quit the Navy under
circumstances which would bring the moisture into my eyes if half a century of
hard weather had not dried all the dampness out of them." Captain Acton looked
at his companion in silence, but with an expression of gentle concern. "He must
go to the dogs," continued the Admiral, "if he lingers on in this neighbourhood.
He can get nothing to do here, and idleness brings with it the temptation of
drink. I hear of him at 'The Swan.' There he meets Lieutenant Tupman, and they
grow merry together, God wot! over recollections. I wish he had Tupman's berth:
a cabbage garden and a cottage and a pig-sty, and a gun-brig that is never
ready. I wonder the Admiralty keep up this farce of gun-brigs stationed on the
coast to guard against what they are never prepared for." "I have heard Mr
Lawrence highly spoken of. When I was last in London I met Pettigrew of the
_Circe_, and he was telling me of a cutting-out affair in which your son was
engaged in the West Indies--Antigua, I think. Nothing could have been more
gallant than his conduct." "He could have done well," sighed the old Admiral. "A
few evenings ago I was waited upon by Mr Greyquill, a sleek and dingy little man
whom I do not love the sight of. Such a visit must be an intrusion. I was
sitting in the open window smoking my pipe, when he pushed the gate and sneaked
up the path in his land-stealing way, but before he could fetch the door I
hailed him: 'Hallo, Mr Greyquill,' says I, 'pray, what business brings you on
this visit?' But in my heart I knew devilish well what he called about. He steps
on to the grass over against my window, and with a low congee says, 'I am sorry,
Sir William, to intrude upon you, sir, but I can obtain no satisfaction from
your son, and at the same time I have no desire to go to extremities.' 'You'll
not help your case by threatening me, Mr Greyquill,' said I. 'But look how the
case stands, sir,' he cries, 'your son has had three hundred pounds from me.'
'No, sir,' I said. 'Well, sir, he owes me three hundred pounds.' 'For how much
advanced?' said I. 'For two hundred in good cash,' he answered. I looked the old
rogue full in the eye, and said, 'You should be a rich man, sir.' 'I want my
money, Sir William,' says he. 'I trusted your son as an officer and a gentleman,
and as the son of an officer and a gentleman----' 'Hold, sir,' I shouted, losing
my temper. 'What right had you to trust me as an officer and a gentleman when
you never gave me your confidence? Did you drop a hint to me that you were
advancing money to my son? Do you suppose if I had known the truth, that I would
have suffered you to accept my credit as a stake in these ignoble transactions?'
'Well, Sir William, I want my money,' said the old rascal, 'and must get it,
though I hope not to be driven into extremities. Is Mr Lawrence in?' 'No, sir,'
says I. 'Good afternoon!' and I got up and left the window." "This man Greyquill
has managed to clap the thumb-screw of debt upon the hands of a pretty good few
in our district," said Captain Acton. "But what's the use of locking up a man
who owes you money? Leave him at large and you stand to be repaid; but flinging
a man into a debtor's gaol, not because he won't pay, but because he can't pay,
seems to me folly as monstrous as locking up a man because being unable to
obtain work his wife and children come upon the parish. Look at the cost you put
the country to on this account! There is the expense of the maintenance of the
man in gaol, and there is the expense of the maintenance of the wife and
children on the parish. Now, by leaving the man at large you give him the chance
of obtaining a day's work." "I hope old Greyquill will not go to extremes,"
exclaimed the Admiral, with a flush in his face. "It is dishonour enough to be
in his debt, but to be imprisoned! There is no good in his looking to me for
repayment." "I don't think he'll trouble your son in that way. He may be a
Shylock, but he is not one of those money scriveners who demand your money or
your flesh. At least, I should say not. I only know the man to nod to. Of what
use would a pound of your son's flesh be to him? I believe, sir, that Mr
Lawrence is not so immoderate in his love of the glass but that he might be
entrusted with the care of a ship?" "No, sir; 'tis gambling not drinking that is
his weakness. But he has drunk and still drinks more than he should. Yet I have
little doubt if he could find himself in a situation of trust, knowing now the
hardships and difficulties of life, and the almost insuperable obstacles to a
man's advancement when by his own folly he has ruined his professional career,
that he would keep a stern watch over his appetite for drink. He has
considerable powers of mind, an uncommon degree of spirit and resolution when he
chooses to exert those qualities; and I say, with the assurance of his profound
sensibility to his present melancholy condition, that he might be safely trusted
to discharge any duties he may have the good luck to be called upon to execute."
"I think I told you, Sir William," said Captain Acton, after a short interval
passed in reflection, "that the _Minorca_ is in want of a captain." "Yes, I
remember. The master died in the homeward passage, and the ship was brought to
port by the mate, to whom I suppose you intend to give the command." "Well, he
is a respectable though a very illiterate man, and I had half made up my mind to
offer him the berth. But I am affected by your trouble. I should be glad to be
of service to your son. Whilst we have talked I have been thinking, and if he is
prepared to accept the position I am quite willing that he should take the
_Minorca_ out and home from the West Indies this voyage on the terms I am in the
habit of giving--twelve pounds a month and a commission on the earnings of the
voyage." The Admiral stopped short and looked at his companion with a face that
was warm, and with eyes that were dim with an emotion of gratitude that was
almost the conqueror of his manhood. He extended his arm in silence, and the two
officers clasped hands. "Acton, you are good--this is indeed kind of you," said
the Admiral after a moment or two of silence. "It would be a great weight lifted
from my spirits to know that my son is shoved clear of the mischief of the
idleness of this place, and that he is once more honourably employed. For, sir,"
said the old gentleman in a hearty, almost rapturous way, "to be in charge of
such a ship as the _Minorca_ is to hold a command as honourable, if not as
exalted, as any afloat. I do thank you, sir. He will be most deeply obliged to
you." The two gentlemen released hands and continued their walk. "Of course,"
said Captain Acton, "he is well up in navigation?" "You will find him fully
qualified in that, and in all else. A smarter seaman never trod shipboard." "I
like the idea," said Captain Acton, "of a naval officer being in charge of my
vessel. The men of the Merchant Service are a very rough lot. Many of the
masters and mates can scarcely read or write. They grope their way about by dead
reckoning. They so little understand the treatment of men that their crews
consider themselves as good as they, particularly when they bring the sailors
aft, and hob-and-nob with the rum cask lifted through the hatch and broached in
the cabin, till half the company lie motionless in drink, and the rest are
fighting and running about mad. Two things the Navy teaches us: discipline and
the art of it." At this point the couple turned in their walk and confronted the
house, at the hall door of which, in the act of descending the broad flight of
steps, was a young lady putting on a glove, attended by a little terrier, who at
sight of the gentlemen bounded along the grass and barked with fury up at the
Admiral's face. This young lady was Lucy, the only child of Captain Acton, one
of the most charming, indeed one of the most beautiful girls of her time. The
scene of garden and flower-beds quaintly shaped, and the backing of the noble,
mellow, gleaming building with its pediment and symbolic carvings, was
enchantingly in keeping with the figure and appearance of the girl, who by the
magic of her looks and attire instantly transformed it into a picture charged
with the colours of youth and health and a sweet and delicate spirit of life.
Her apparel was prettily of the time: a straw hat, the brim projecting a little
over the forehead and seated somewhat on one side, a plain light blue gown and
long yellow silk gloves. The gown was without waist and bound under the bosom by
a girdle. Her hair this day was dressed in tresses which hung around the face--
not curls, but tender shadings of hair, as though the effect had been contrived
by the fingers of the wind; but some curls reposed on her neck. Her eyes were
unusually large, of a dark brown and full of liquid light. The eyelids were
somewhat heavy, and looked the heavier because of their rich furniture of
eyelash. The eyelashes indeed suggested at first sight that she doctored her
eyes, as do actresses and others; but a brief inspection satisfied the beholder
that all was Nature transparent, artless, and lovely. A conspicuous charm in
Lucy Acton was her colour: her cheeks always wore a natural bloom or glow; this,
as in the case of her eyes, might have been suspected as the effect of art, but
she blushed so readily, even sometimes on any effort of speech, the damask of
her blood so wrought in her cheek on any impulse of mood or humour, that it was
quickly seen the mantling glow was a charm of Nature's own gift. No girl could
have been more natural, and few more beautiful than Lucy Acton. Had she lived
half a century earlier she would have been one of the toasts of the nation. She
was twenty-three years of age, and it will be readily supposed had been sought
in marriage by more than one ardent swain. But she had kept her heart whole:
nothing in breeches and stockings and long cut-away coat and salutations adopted
from the most approved Parisian styles had touched the passions of Lucy Acton.
She was like Emma as painted by Miss Austen: she loved her home, she adored her
father, she was perfectly well satisfied with her present state of being, she
could not conceive anything in a man that was worth marrying for, and being
well, she meant to leave well alone. Where did she get those wonderful eyes?
From her mother, who in her day had been a celebrated Irish actress; Kitty
O'Hara, famed in such parts as _Sir Harry Wildair_, the _Fair Penitent_, and
_Ophelia_. Captain Acton, when lieutenant and stationed at Kingston, had seen
Mrs Kitty O'Hara as "Ophelia" at the Dublin Theatre, and before she had been on
the stage five minutes he lost his heart to her. The beautiful and accomplished
actress was living with her mother, a noble-looking old gentlewoman who claimed
to possess the blood of Irish kings. Acton made love and offered marriage, and
was accepted. He had little more than his pay to live upon; nevertheless he
refused to allow his wife to return to the stage. He was a sailor, and must by
reason of his vocation be often long absent from home, and he declined to
subject his beautiful young wife to the temptations of the stage. He might also
have been influenced by the case of Sheridan after his marriage with Miss
Linley, and sometimes quoted Dr Samuel Johnson's comment on Sheridan's decision:
"He resolved wisely and nobly to be sure. He is a brave man. Would not a
gentleman be disgraced by having his wife singing publicly for hire? No, sir,
there can be no doubt here." "Down, ma'am! cease your clatter!" cried Captain
Acton to the terrier, whilst the Admiral saluted the young lady with a bow as
full of homage as he would have conceded to royalty. "Where are you bound to?"
"I am going to Old Harbour Town to do a little shopping," answered Lucy, smiling
at the Admiral and showing her milk-white teeth, the whiter for the red of her
lips and the bloom on her cheeks. "Can I do anything for you, papa?" "No, my
dear." "Can I be of service to you, Sir William?" said the girl, picking up her
dog to silence it. "You do me service enough by suffering me to see you, madam,"
replied the gallant old sailor. "Brighter lights and fresher colours seem to
attend you. Your grounds, sir, have grown gayer since your charming daughter
made her appearance." "I know nobody who turns his compliments so prettily as
you, Sir William," exclaimed Lucy. "Do you know, sir," said she, addressing her
father, "that Bates (the butler) just now told me there was a fire at sea last
night." "No, on the shore, Miss," said the Admiral. "A French corsair was chased
ashore about five miles up and burnt." "I saw the light from my bedroom window,"
said Lucy. "Who chased the Frenchman? Lieutenant Tupman?" "He! More likely he
was chasing one of his pigs, if indeed he was not in bed, sound under the
influence of flip. As those brigs are not useful, and as they are not
ornamental, why is the nation put to the cost of maintaining them? Had my son
received Tupman's berth--oh, ma'am, I must tell you of a noble, generous deed of
kindness your excellent, large-hearted father has been good enough to do me and
Mr Lawrence. He has promised him the command of the _Minorca_." Lucy looked at
her father with an expression of surprise that vanished from her fine dramatic
eyes in an instant. "I am very pleased to hear it," she said. "I am sure Mr
Lawrence will be glad to get away from Old Harbour Town. He has visited many
parts of the globe, and to be limited to two streets, and such streets as High
Street and Lower Street with their little shops and tame and commonplace
interests, must be such a trial to a man of spirit, as every day can but make
more and more a punishment." "It gives me great pleasure to serve my old
friend," said Captain Acton. "Mr Lawrence is an officer with a career full of
gallant things; I have no doubt he is a capable navigator. Will you ask him to
call upon me this evening?" "At what hour?" "Eight o'clock will suit me very
well." "He shall wait upon you at the stroke, sir." "Good-bye, Sir William,"
said Lucy, and in silence the two gentlemen watched her walk to the gate and
pass out. CHAPTER II

WALTER LAWRENCE

Lucy Acton made her way towards Old Harbour Town by a lane that struck down off
the road used by the coaches and post-chaises. This lane was broad and in places
steep and rugged, with long spaces heavily flanked with tall and spacious trees.
Elsewhere the low hedge revealed the sloping meadow or ploughed field whose
margin where it sank low was defined against the blue water of the ocean. It was
April, and some birds were in song; the sun shone brightly, and the breeze
blowing from the sea sang pleasantly amongst the trees whose boughs were studded
with little buds. The lane conducted Lucy to the valley where the river was, and
here she stepped upon an old bridge. When half-way across she stopped to look in
the direction of Old Harbour. The river flowed prettily under this bridge and
melted its brilliance in the waters of the Harbour, where, when the tide was at
lowest ebb, it always had a bed for its discharge into the brine beyond. Lucy
had often viewed this scene: her pause now was dictated by a trifling feeling of
curiosity. Against the wharves on the left-hand side and over against the stump-
ended projection of pier was moored her father's ship the _Minorca_, of which
she had just now been assured Sir William Lawrence's son was to be offered the
command. This vessel lay with two or three others, a brig or two and a schooner,
at the wharves, and with her own and the drying sails of the others, the tall
spars, the yards across, the complicated lines of the rigging, provided a bold
and even ample figure of shipping to the eye. But in addition to these there lay
in the harbour a number of fishing craft, and this side the extremity of the
wharves within musket shot of where Lucy stood was moored the _Saucy_ brig-of-
war of about one hundred and eighty tons armed with thirty-two pounder
carronades. She was one of a number of the like sort of brig which were to be
found in that year (1805) on the coasts of Sussex, Suffolk, and Norfolk. These
brigs were usually hauled into creeks or laid up in snug corners where the
Lieutenant, as Sir William had pointed out, had his cabbage garden and pig-sty.
They were designed as a provision against the invasion of the French, and were
quite worthless, as they were never ready, and always so anchored or so secured
as to demand as much time in getting under weigh as would take a French army of
invasion to march from Dover to Ashford. This cool indifference on the part of
the lieutenants in command of the brigs is rendered the more surprising by
contrast with the sincere terrors which the prospect of invasion raised in the
country. The alarm indeed was very seriously justified, for in that year the
French Emperor had at his disposal at the Texel, Ostend, Dunkirk, Calais,
Boulogne and Havre, a total of one hundred and eighty thousand men, with a fleet
of twenty-one sail of the line, besides frigates and transports at Brest, a
squadron at Rochefort, and a powerful fleet at Toulon, and at this time Spain
had joined her forces with those of France against us. Nevertheless the
lieutenants in charge of the gun-brigs stationed on the coasts took life with
that unconcern which is one of the blessings of peace; they cultivated their
cabbage gardens, they attended to their pig-stys, and they smoked their pipes
and drank strong beer at taverns with sounding names such as "The Coach and
Horses," or "The Maid and the Harp"; and one of the worst offenders was
Lieutenant Tupman of the brig _Saucy_, which lay within gun-shot of where Lucy
stood. The thought of Mr Lawrence having received from her father the offer of
the command of yonder little ship was put out of Lucy's mind by the image of
placid sun-lighted scenery she contemplated, taking full possession of her.
Familiar as the picture was, her beautiful eyes, moving slowly, dwelt in their
brooding way upon the objects she directed them at, and her native loveliness
seemed to gain by the impulse which visited it, and she and the sweet and
restful scene of cliff and distant blue water and quiet haven into which the
fabrics that floated shook their lights and the delicate tracery of their gear,
were blent, and it was as though she was the spirit of the place. Close to lay
the gun-brig reflecting her white band broken by ports in the calm surface. She
looked to be ready for sea; all her yards were across, the white sails furled
with that exquisite finish which expresses the pat of the man-o'-warsman's hand;
but there was nobody visible aboard of her. Beyond, the eye went to the short
length of timber pier, and on this side of it to some smacks which now floated
at little buoys or at their own anchors, though at ebb of tide Old Harbour was
mainly mud with the river's bed in the middle and vessels lying high, black and
gaunt in several postures, whilst out in the south the ripple of the sea in
smooth weather streamed to and fro with long lashings of black weed, and the air
was salt and nimble with the smell of marine growths. The wharves were old
platforms black with tar or pitch, and at the back of them were three warehouses
for the accommodation of such merchandise as this Old Harbour received or sent
afloat. Perched midway on the slope that was terminated by the brow of the cliff
where the windmill this morning was peacefully revolving its vans, was Old
Harbour Town, a romantic grouping of little grey houses full of sparkling
lozenge windows backed by a church spire, the whole looking in the distance like
a toy that could be put into a box and set out according to taste upon a table
by a child. Lucy heard a church bell strike: she started from a fit of
abstraction, and, turning to move on, confronted an old man who was crossing the
bridge. The face of this old man was pale and wrinkled; his hair was long and
quite white. His nose streamed down his face in a thin, curling outline; his
mouth when his lips were compressed might be expressed by a simple stroke of a
pencil. His eyes were deep-seated and extraordinarily luminous and swift in
their motions, and his eyebrows, which were as white as his hair, were so thick
and overhanging that they might have passed for a couple of white mice sleeping
on his brow. His apparel had that dim and faded look which in fiction is
associated with miserliness. His high and dingy white cravat and the tall build
of his coat at the back of his head, so sloped his shoulders that they looked to
make a line with his arms. He wore a faded red waistcoat which sank very low,
and under it dangled a bunch of seals. His knee-breeches left painfully visible
the pipe-stem shanks clothed in grey hose and terminating in large shoes,
burdened with steel buckles. He removed his little round hat and bowed low to
Lucy. "Good morning, Mr Greyquill," said the young lady, bestowing upon him one
of those sweet and gracious smiles with which she favoured nearly all, thus
rendering herself as much beloved for her cordial charm of manner as she was
admired by the women and adored by the men for her singular beauty of face and
graces of person. He bade her good-morning with profound respect. Her dog barked
in his face, and she silenced it by lifting it under her arm. "I hope your cold
is better, Mr Greyquill," said she, making to proceed in her walk. "Much better
--indeed, quite gone, I am greatly obliged to you, ma'am," he answered. "I find
nursing of little account. Gruel and foot-baths and a tallow candle for the nose
do not help me so much as fresh air. Fresh air seems to dry the cold up." She
agreed with him with a smile, and with a pleasant salutation of the head, walked
on. The old man looked after her, and whispered to himself in admiration of her
kindness and person. A wooden-legged sailor just then came up some steps from
the river side on to that end of the bridge which the money-lender was
approaching, and when Greyquill was close to, the tar, assuming a posture of
abject despondency, pulled off his hat, and extending it begged for alms. "I
have bled for my country, your honour," said the man. "But you don't say you
were paid to do so," answered Greyquill. "Ay, but I wasn't paid to lose my leg,"
called out the man. Greyquill, who saw little to fear in the pursuit of a man
with a wooden leg, turned his head upon his shoulder and cried back: "There are
too many of us." "That ain't my fault!" bawled the man at the receding figure.
"Yes, it is," cried Greyquill. "For people like you who can't get on ought to
get out." The laugh with which the malicious old fellow accompanied this sally
caused the sailor to gaze eagerly round the ground as though for a stone to
heave at him. Meanwhile, Lucy crossing the bridge pursued the road to Old
Harbour Town. She walked up an incline as gradual and pleasant as the lane which
had brought her to the river. The hedges on either side stood thick, and the
road was sentinelled by trees which when robed in their foliage transformed a
long space of it into a beautiful avenue. The way took her straight to Lower
Street, at the corner of which stood "The Swan" Tavern, a posting-house with a
signboard that swang rustily through the long dark night, but behind its little
lower windows a glimpse of old-world comfort could be caught: a sanded floor, a
dark-polished table ringed with impressions of immemorial mugs of ale set down
upon it, a little grate high perched in a setting of china, an old Dutch clock,
and a black-board for the score. This house contained a room which caused it to
be the haunt of the seafaring men of the place. It was in the second story, and
was lighted by a large bow-window with a seat running round it from which a fine
view of Old Harbour was to be obtained and the spacious sea beyond. Here on a
table in the middle of the room were to be found telescopes, newspapers, not
older perhaps than a week, little sheaves of matchwood for lighting pipes at the
fire in winter or at a floating oil-mesh in summer. This room always contained
one or more seafaring men, and of a night, if there was a tolerable presence of
shipping in the Harbour, it was sometimes full, on which occasions it was so
heavily loaded with tobacco fumes that one was at some pains to see one's friend
through the fog. Here were battles fought over again, and future victories
planned and won. Here you heard the argument running high on the usefulness of
certain sails in certain weather, on the best course to adopt when taken by the
lee, on the wisest thing to do when chased by an enemy's cruiser. Here were told
stories of admirals and captains whose names are shining stars in our national
story; yarns of Hawke and Howe and Duncan, Rodney, and others. For this room was
frequented by several very old men who lived in Old Harbour Town and had served
the King; and one of them, like Tom Tough, had been coxswain to Boscawen. Of
this man, a toothless salt whose face was like an old potato, dark with the
weather of vanished days and covered with warts, an affecting story was told: it
was evening, and the room was full of seafaring men, and this man, whose name
was John Halliburton, sat at the table with a long clay pipe trembling in one
hand and a glass of hot rum and water in reach of the other. Several songs had
been sung by members of the company, and some one, by way of a joke, asked old
John to oblige. To the amazement of everybody the old man put down his pipe,
took off his hat, out of which he drew a large red handkerchief with which he
polished his face, and then, fixing his lustreless eyes upon the man who had
asked him to sing, broke into a song in a strange, quivering, fitful note, as
though you should hear a drunken sailor singing in a vault. The assembly was
hushed into deep stillness. It was certainly a most unparalleled circumstance
for old John to sing. In the middle of the second verse, some old nautical
ballad popular fifty years before, he stopped, put his handkerchief into his
hat, and his hat upon his head, and resumed his pipe, gazing vacantly at the man
who had asked him to sing. "Pray, go on," said the man. "We are all delighted,
Mr Halliburton. Have you forgot the words? There's some here, no doubt, as are
able to remind ye." "Oh yes," said a voice. "Are ye speaking to me?" said old
John. "Certainly," was the answer. "What d'ye want?" "We want you to finish the
song you was just now singing and broke off in." "_Me_ singing!" exclaimed old
John. "Why, yes, of course." "Me singing!" quavered old John, with a voice of
amazement. "Why, I ha'nt sung this twenty year past." It was easily seen that
the poor old man was deeply in earnest and was to be speedily distressed. It was
an affecting exhibition of mental decay, and rough as the company were, they had
the good taste to change the subject. Lower Street was not the street in which
Lucy shopped. It consisted mainly of little houses with screen doors and bright
brass knockers, and lozenged windows which opened and shut in the French style,
so that a small piece of the window could be opened at will. These houses were
the dwelling-places of pilots, sailors, and fishermen belonging to the district.
In the middle of the street was a Nonconformist Chapel with a burial ground
spreading out in front of it till its outer confines were half-way upon the
footpath; a wonderfully tended resting-place: its billows of grass marked in
most cases the silent beds of seafarers; the decoration of flower or memorial
was largely nautical: the anchor, the Liliputian bows of a ship as a headpiece,
and here and there the headpiece was a gun. Tombstones whose inscriptions
endless discharges of wet and the fretting action of the wind had rendered
almost illegible, leaned as though for support in their weariness against the
walls of the adjacent houses; so that a few bricks or stones might separate a
row of dead men from a little parlour full of cheerful company where the fire
crackled briskly, where the oil flame shook in ripples of yellow radiance upon
the walls and the ceiling, where the atmosphere was good with the perfume of rum
punch, and where a manly voice in an interval of silence might be heard singing
a nautical ballad to the accompaniment of a fiddle. Lucy walked on to High
Street, into which she turned, and from nearly every person that she passed, she
received a respectful salute or a ducking curtsy; and for all she had a kindly
word and a smile as lovely as a fine May day, and sometimes she would stop and
speak to a child, on which occasions she generally took a penny from her pocket.
This High Street was pleasantly furnished with shops: the butcher's, the owner
of which shouted in talk to his customers as he dexterously chopped on his
block; the baker's, with its little bow-window choice with buns and cakes, and
pretty shapes of bread; here too was the post-office, which was like a pedlar's
tray for variety of contents. After Lucy had done her shopping--and the few
articles were to be delivered punctually that afternoon--she walked along High
Street, so as to return by the road she had come by. When her steps had brought
her abreast of "The Swan," she saw two men standing in conversation in the
doorway of that old hostelry. They both bowed low to her, but it might have been
noticed that after she had saluted them in return, the fine natural glow of her
cheeks slightly deepened and her step appreciably quickened. If her object was
to escape these men she must either run, which would not have been seemly, or
submit to being overtaken if pursued, which happened in the case of one of them,
and within a few minutes a gentleman was walking at her side. "Good morning,
Miss Acton! I am going over to my father's. Are you returning to Old Harbour
House? If so, I hope you will allow me to do myself the pleasure of accompanying
you as far." "No, sir," she answered. "I am not returning to Old Harbour House--
not immediately. I am going to the Harbour--I am going for a little walk." "How
I am always being disappointed!" he exclaimed, and she might by the note in his
voice, by a smile which did not show perfect self-control, and by a heated
colour of complexion, have by this time suspected that this gentleman and his
companion, who was Lieutenant Tupman, had not looked in at "The Swan" Inn only
to find out what o'clock it was. He was Mr Walter Lawrence, a son of Admiral
Lawrence, and down to a recent period a lieutenant in the Royal Navy. He was
something over thirty years of age, but drink, dissipation, the hard life of the
sea and some fever which had got into his blood and proved intermittent, had
worked in his face like time, and he might have passed for any age between
thirty-five and forty-five. Nevertheless he was an extremely handsome man, of
the classic Greek type in lineament, but improved, at least to the British eye,
by the Saxon colouring of hair, skin, and eyes. His teeth were extraordinarily
white and good for a sailor who had lived on gun-room fare in times when the
ship's biscuit was flint, and the peas which rolled about in the discoloured hot
water called soup, fit only for loading a blunderbuss with to shoot men dead.
His eyes told their tale of drink, but they were large and fine and spirited;
his light brown hair, according to the fashion of the age, was combed down his
back and lay in a rope-shaped tail there. He wore a wide-brimmed round hat, and
his attire, a little the worse for wear, consisted of a blue coat, white
waistcoat, sage-green kerseymere breeches, and, needless to say, the cravat was
high and full. He stood about six feet, his figure was extremely well
proportioned, and in addition to these merits his carriage had the easy elegance
which the flow of the billow and the heave of the deck infuse into all human
figures not radically vile and deformed. His voice was soft, winning, and
somewhat plaintive, and no man, whether on or off the stage, not even Incledon,
sang a song with more exquisite feeling and sweeter sincerity of passion. His
companionship, however, in spite of his beauty, for more reasons than one, must
prove, then, as it had proved on other occasions, extremely embarrassing to Miss
Acton. Shortly after he had obtained his promotion he arrived home on a visit to
his father, and meeting her, fell in love and offered her marriage. But Lucy had
much good sense, which is not often allied with so much beauty as she possessed.
Her heart admitted his fascination, and she had heard things of him that did him
honour; moreover, he was a member of a profession which she adored. But it had
come to her knowledge, by avenues difficult to determine, that he was a gambler
and drank without moderation, and that his theory of life and morals was such as
deserved severe condemnation as it would surely end in provoking heavy
punishment. She declined his offer, yet with a maiden's secret fretfulness over
the perception that her judgment compelled her into a step against the wishes
and sighs of her heart. He went to sea again and did not return for two years,
and when he arrived he came broken, to the grief and shame of his father. He had
been court-martialled and dismissed his ship. His offence was singular and
characteristic: he was in a foreign port, and at night-fall he walked to the
quay to return to his ship. He was intoxicated, and on being challenged by a
sentry, tumbled the fellow into the water and immediately sprang after him and
saved his life. Some in the face of his gallant career thought the sentence too
severe: others regarded it as lenient. His own view of it he betokened by
conceiving a bitter hatred against the Service and by resigning his commission.
He returned to England, and went to his father ostensibly to seek a berth
ashore, but for many months past he had been hanging about Old Harbour Town, an
idler and a tippler, and handsome as he was, and brilliant as had been his short
naval story, he was not the man to commend himself to Lucy Acton as a husband
whatever may have been her secret feelings in regard to his person and some
points of his character. "How," he exclaimed, "I am always being disappointed!
If you turn off at the bridge I shall not be allowed more than ten minutes' talk
with you." "I shall turn off at the bridge," she answered. "It is not long since
that I was with your father. I left him in conversation with Captain Acton at
Old Harbour House. I believe I heard your name mentioned as I passed away from
them." "What would they have to say about me?" he exclaimed, with a rather
unmeaning smile. "I can believe that Sir William grows weary of my presence, and
that he sometimes wishes me at the bottom of the sea. 'Tis a pity that he did so
ill in prize money. He was born to no fortune, and married a moneyless lady, and
here is my father, an Admiral in the British Navy, obliged to dwell in a cottage
fit only to make a dwelling-house for a poet, whose calling is, I believe, the
poorest paid of any. I am much troubled," he continued in a maudlin way, "to
think that I should continue to be a burthen upon the old gentleman. But I
assure you on my honour, madam, if I am not independent of him this moment 'tis
not because I have not been as diligent as Old Nick himself in looking about me.
But go where I will and ask where I will, the door is shut, the place is full,
the answer is nay. What a sweet little dog is that! How happy to be for ever
frisking about you and often lifted and caressed!" Here he sighed so loudly that
she could not fail to hear him, and looked at her a little while with a somewhat
tipsy steadfastness. "There should be plenty to be done," said she. "There is
the Army." "The Army!" he cried. "Could you put a greater indignity upon a
sailor than to compel him to shoulder a handspike and march up and down as
though he were a soldier?" She fell a-laughing at his sottish indignation, but
quickly recollected herself. He burst into a loud guffaw when he saw that he had
amused her, and said: "I was just now with Tupman. I wish I had his berth." Here
he looked behind him to see if the lieutenant was following, but as a matter of
fact Tupman had re-entered "The Swan." "He is stationed here to guard us against
being invaded by the French, which he provides for so carefully by lying a-bed
until ten in the morning, then sulking over his breakfast of ale, new bread, and
tobacco, then doing some work in his bit of garden--he is a great lover of
vegetables--then lurching up to Old Harbour Town, where of an afternoon he may
commonly be found sitting over a pot reading the newspaper and yarning with any
man that will take a chair over against him, that I protest when I met him at
'The Swan' not an hour gone by he had not heard that a French privateersman had
been chased ashore by one of our frigates last evening, and burnt after ten
thousand pounds had been taken out of her." "I think if the French intend to
invade us, they will not be stopped by Mr Tupman and his brig." "He thinks
highly of his brig, though: says to me a day or two ago, 'I wish an enemy's
cruiser would look in. She will not know that the _Saucy_ is lying here. I
believe I could make my carronades talk to her, and it would please me to see
the pier and the shore dark with figures whilst I was towing my capture into Old
Harbour.' I doubt if he would rise out of bed to give an order to chase even if
a suspicious sail hove in sight. Here we are coming to the bridge, and you are
going for a walk to the pier. Will you pluck me a daisy before you go? See,
there are several amongst the grass just there. I have nothing to remember you
by. I will wrap it in silver paper, and it shall be the only sacred thing I
possess." "Oh no, sir, you can do without a daisy from me," she answered, though
her cheeks were warm with one of those sudden blushes which seemed to glow as
though to prove that her lovely bloom was entirely due to nature and not to art,
as the suspicious eye might fancy or the cynical eye desire. "You will deny me
even a daisy?" he cried, with a sudden passion in his manner which alarmed her,
as he was not sober. He sprang to the side of the road, and picking a daisy
returned to her, pulled off his hat, and said earnestly--indeed in a voice of
emotion and sincerity that put a fine and appealing meaning into the expression
of his eyes which by the power of the impulse then governing him were superior
to the drink in his head: "Let me entreat you, madam, to put this little flower
to your sweet lips, and return it to me. It is but a trifle I ask: you are too
good and generous to refuse me." She took the flower, put it to her lips, and
handed it to him. His passion for her was very visible as he received the flower
with his eyes fixed upon her face. He gave her a low bow, and then put on his
hat, and going to the hedge pulled a leaf in which he wrapped the daisy, and
carefully placed both in his waistcoat pocket. "To prove my sincerity, madam,"
said he, "I could wish that the possession of this little flower might depend
upon the result of a conflict between yonder brig with your humble obedient
servant in command of her, and the biggest corvette the Frenchman has afloat."
"Why, sir, do not you think that a great deal of nonsense is talked by young men
and old men to young women? But I believe your father will be glad to see you. I
may have a reason to suppose he is waiting for you to return. Here we part, Mr
Lawrence, and I wish you a good morning," and, sinking her figure in a curtsy
fashionable in those days, she crossed the road and went down the little flight
of wooden steps that led to the path by the river's bank and so to Old Harbour.
She had not intended to take this walk. At Old Harbour House dinner was served
at two o'clock, and if she was not punctual Aunt Caroline would grow alarmed,
and probably send the coachman on horseback in search of her. But it was only
just noon, and there was time enough for her to arrive home at the dinner-hour,
and also to make this little diversion to escape Mr Lawrence, who, she
suspected, would have forced his company upon her even in this further walk had
not she excited his curiosity by saying that his father was waiting to see him.
He was not too far gone in liquor to understand that something of significance
to him lay in her reference to Sir William, and when presently she was upon the
river-side footpath and took a cautious peep over her shoulder, she observed him
through the trees mounting the lane and walking somewhat fast. "It is a very
great pity," she thought to herself, "that so handsome a young man, and one so
spirited and daring as he has proved, should abandon himself to his vicious
tastes. The longer he remains here the more sottish he will become, and the
lower will his manhood sink till he will be at no pains to relieve his father
from the obligation of supporting or helping him, and the gallant creature who,
if he took the right path, would march easily to fame and dignity and affluence,
must end as a drunken, trembling, degraded wretch, the object of pity or scorn,
and who has pity for such people?" The beautiful girl sighed. She had no
intention of crossing the river by the ferry to gain the pier. When Mr Lawrence
had advanced well ahead, she intended to resume the road he was taking and go
home. Her mind, however, was occupied by him, and yonder, lying at the wharves,
was the _Minorca_, of which she understood he was to receive the command. She
walked towards the vessel; she supplied an object for the little excursion, and
the walk would give Mr Lawrence time enough to put the necessary distance
between them. The river widened rapidly when it passed under the bridge. The
smooth water at the mouth of it reflected the chequered band of the _Saucy_
brig-of-war. Two or three smacks were hoisting their coloured canvas and sailing
out to sea. On either hand the banks of the ravine sloped, well dressed in
shrubs and wood, and here and there stood a little house. Some small boats lay
in black specks away out between the two Heads fishing. Business was not very
brisk in the Harbour just then, and the wharves were quiet. They were three;
each of well-pitched timber long enough to supply berths stem and stern to two
or three small vessels apiece. They were backed by a row of warehouses, some of
which were Captain Acton's, and in these were stowed the rum, sugar, and tobacco
which his two ships brought from the West Indies. CHAPTER III

THE OFFER

The small amount of work in the shape of discharging and receiving cargo which
was being done on the wharves of Old Harbour, had come to a pause when the
labourers' dinner-hour struck, and but three or four figures were visible upon
the tar-black platforms along which the little ships were moored. Of these one
was a brig and the other a schooner, and one was the _Minorca_, a handsome
coppered barque of five hundred tons built by the French, and, as we have heard,
taken from that people. The sails of these vessels had been furled, and the
bright April breeze blowing from the sea sang in their clean rigging. A couple
of planks communicated between the _Minorca's_ gangway and the wharf, and at the
wharf-end of these planks stood a man of a seafaring aspect, apparently
belonging to the barque. As Lucy advanced holding her dog lest the creature
should skip in a fit of excitement into the water, the man viewed her as though
on catching her eye, or receiving the encouragement of a look of recognition, he
was prepared to salute her. Perhaps she did not heed him, but on drawing close
to the vessel, she looked at him, and thanks to that gracious gift which by
creating opportunities for tact, helps more to render the individual beloved or
popular than perhaps any other quality, she immediately recollected the man, and
not only the man, but his name, as Mr John Eagle, mate of the _Minorca_, who,
when the vessel was last in harbour and she had gone on board of her with her
father, had been introduced to her by Captain Acton. He was a man of rough
appearance whose hand had been in the tar-bucket for most of his life--a hard,
reserved man, shy, so ignorant that he read with difficulty, and wrote his name
as painfully as a hand tortured with gout inscribes with the pen. "How do you
do, Mr Eagle?" exclaimed Lucy. He stiffened himself, and saluted her by a
flourish of his hand to his brow, and answered: "Just about middling, thank you,
Miss." "I am sorry you are not better than middling," she said. "It's the
rheumatics. It's got into my feet and my shoulders. It's a pain as no spirits
can stand up against." "Are you doing anything to ease your suffering?" "I
drinks a drop of rum when it comes on very bad. I've given up rubbing. I've been
rubbed till I've scarce got any skin left." "I'll speak to Miss Acton. I am sure
she will have something that is good for rheumatism, and if she has I will send
it you." "I thank you, Miss," said he, with an incredulous smile. "Was you going
on board?" "No. What a big ship she looks compared with the other two! It is
difficult to think of her alone in the middle of the sea. I can only imagine her
lying at a wharf with protecting hills on each side. Does she sail fast?" "Give
her a good breeze and she can find her legs, but she ain't to be compared with
the _Aurora_." "She will be arriving shortly, I think." "Doo any day, Miss,
unless she's been nabbed, but the vessel that's going to take the _Aurora_ 'ull
want more than wings." "When does the _Minorca_ sail?" "Early next month, I
believe, ma'am." Her eyes reposed thoughtfully upon the hull of the ship,
mounting presently in a stealing way to the heights, and her colour seemed to
deepen slightly to the impulse of a romantic mood or fancy. "If there was
nothing to fear from the enemy's ships," she said, "and if the sea was always
calm and the breeze gentle and mild, I believe I might wish to make a voyage in
the _Minorca_ to the West Indies." "You'd be taken all care of, ma'am." "But the
sleeping berths are very little, and I am certain that the motion of the
ship----" She shook her head and smiled, and then saying, "Good morning, Mr
Eagle. If my aunt has a remedy for the rheumatism I will send it you," she
returned the way she had come, mounted the steps, gained the bridge, and
proceeded home. Meanwhile, Mr Lawrence had gone about three-quarters of a mile
and was now approaching his father's home. The Admiral's cottage was in a lane
off the main road. It was such an umbrageous retreat as Cowper, had he been in
earnest, would have hastened to when he sighed for some boundless contiguity of
shade. It stood in a little land protected by hedges and walls full of orchards.
The Admiral lived in the heart of groves of cherry, plum, apple, pear, and other
fruitful trees which presently, in this month of April, would make the scene
round about as beautiful as driven snow shone upon by the sun, with almond-white
flowers. The Admiral missed the sea; he was near it, nay, in heavy weather
within sound of it, but not a glimpse of the blue deep could be caught through
the windows. He had retired on a pension and on trifling private means which
rendered this retreat the fittest he could have chosen for the convenience of
his purse and for the simple tastes of his life. Here he lived with an old
servant and a young girl, and now with his son; but he was always hoping that
this last obligation would not be continuous, though the prospect of getting
anything to do in such an obscure corner of the earth as Old Harbour Town was as
remote as the possibility of Mr Lawrence ever becoming Prime Minister of
England. Yet a secret hope, an indeterminable dream, one of those imaginations
which make blessed the possessors of the sanguine temperament, buoyed the
Admiral. Who could tell? Something might happen! Walter might fall in with a man
who should prove a friend, even in that very haunt, "The Swan," which seemed
obnoxious to his interests. Thus the old fellow would reason without logic, or
even knowing what he was talking to himself about. His mind was full of his son
as he sat this day at his dinner, which was put every afternoon punctually at
half-past one upon the table whether Mr Lawrence was at home or whether he was
not. The window at which the Admiral was wont of a pleasant evening to sit with
his pipe was open; the room was small, with a low ceiling, but one should say a
very dream of comfort to a nautical man. Its walls were embellished with
pictures of sea-fights, of frigates engaging forts, of encounters between line-
of-battle ships. A handsome telescope, a gift for some deed of valour, lay in
brackets over the small, richly-carved sideboard. The Admiral sat at table
before a meal that betokened total neglect on his part of all thought of
digestion. The dinner in short, so far as it had been served, consisted of a
round of boiled beef, carrots and turnips, and a dish of potatoes smoking in
their jackets, a stout loaf of black crust, a dish of fine yellow butter, and at
Sir William's elbow was a silver mug with a thick glass bottom, just filled
foaming to the brim from a cask of the very best ale at that time brewed in
England, and in those days a glass of fine ale was a more delicious draught,
more thirst-quenching, more appealing to all the secret feelings of the interior
than the finest liquor that has been drunk since, call it what you will. Just as
the Admiral was cutting a second helping for himself from the round of beef,
which being English was choicely tasted, he heard his son's footsteps in the
passage outside, and after a short interval, during which Mr Lawrence fitted
himself for the dinner table, that gentleman walked in. He was almost
immediately followed by the old housekeeper with hot plates. She was very fond
of Mr Lawrence. She would listen for his footsteps. He was still "Master Walter"
with her, and would remain so. She had once, on hearing of his money troubles,
offered to lend him from her slender savings. But whatever may have been his
character he was a sailor in this: he would not take money from a woman. The
Admiral viewed his son critically. The walk home, followed by a sousing of the
face in cold water, had helped to attenuate the lingering fumes in the young
man's brains, and on the whole his mind was about as steady as could be expected
in one who was always more or less under the influence of drink. "Have you
dined?" asked Sir William. "No, sir." This question will not appear strange when
it is understood that Mr Lawrence occasionally took a seat at an ordinary at
"The Swan," served half an hour after noon. The Admiral cut a plate of meat, and
the pair fell to their dinner, the housekeeper reappearing to place such another
silver tankard foaming full as graced Sir William's elbow, at the side of Mr
Lawrence. "I met Miss Acton as I was coming home," said Mr Lawrence, "and she
said she had left you and her father talking about me." "Captain Acton and I
were talking about you this morning," said the Admiral. "I was lamenting your
inability to procure a berth of any sort, and told him that I could see no hope
for you whilst you continued to hang about Old Harbour Town, and to lounge in
and out of 'The Swan.'" "You'll admit, sir, that my failure to obtain employment
has not been due to neglect in searching for it." "But what is to be hoped for
in a place like this? Here are no industries; there is nothing doing, you cannot
turn smacksman or start as a pilot." "I am extremely anxious to relieve you of
the burden of maintaining me, and my fixed intention, if I can procure nothing
to do between this and next month, is to work my passage out before the mast to
the United States. If it should come to the backwoods, I am ready. I confess
this life grows insupportable, and the more burthensome to me because it is a
tax upon you, sir." The Admiral buried half his face in his tankard, and after
wiping the froth from his lips and looking earnestly at the round of beef as
though he deliberated within himself whether he should take another slice, he
said: "I am happy to say that I have good news for you. An opportunity has been
offered which will do away with the need of your shipping before the mast and
seeking your fortune in America. The _Minorca_, as you doubtless know, is in
want of a captain. I was speaking about you to Captain Acton this morning, and
regretting, as I must continue to regret whilst I have the capacity of a sigh--I
do not say a tear--left in me, that you should relinquish the Service in which,
had you behaved with prudence, you were eminently calculated to make a shining
figure." The gallant old officer paused and looked at his son, and any one could
have easily seen that he was equally moved by pain and pride. Indeed the man who
sat opposite to him was one who by manly beauty of face, worn as it was by
weather and excess, by vigorous bearing of shapely person, and by a story which,
brief as it was, was as full of the stars of gallant deeds as a short scope of
wake is alive with the brilliant pulses of the sea-glow, was one, let it be
repeated, whom many a father's heart would rejoice in, and approve of, bitterly
as it must deplore those lamentable, if fashionable, weaknesses, gambling and a
love of what Dibdin calls the "flowing can." Mr Lawrence had closed his knife
and fork and swallowed half his tankard of ale, when the Admiral halted in his
speech. He regarded his father with eager earnestness. But the Admiral was not
to be interrupted in his further disclosure. Having ascertained that his son
wished for no more beef, he went to the fire-place and pulled a bell-rope, and
it was not until the housekeeper had removed the joint and vegetables and
replaced them by a dish of Norfolk dumplings with white sauce sweetened and
brandied--a homely dish of which Sir William was uncommonly fond--that the old
gentleman proceeded. "I may now tell you," said he, "that Captain Acton this
morning, on my expressing my regret that you could not obtain employment, most
handsomely and liberally made you the offer of the command of a ship, the
_Minorca_." Mr Lawrence's face lighted up, but the expression was curious; it
was composite; it seemed to be lacking in the elementary quality of exultation
or rejoicing which naturally would have been sought for or expected. "He is very
kind," said he. "I should like the berth." "He proposes that you should take the
vessel out to the West Indies and bring her home. He pays twelve pounds a month,
and gives a commission on the earnings of the ship. What do you say?" "Why, sir,
of course I accept without hesitation, and feel most deeply obliged." "It is a
step," continued the Admiral, "that may lead to other and even better things.
But first and foremost it finds you in employment, and will put some money into
your pocket, and relieve the pressure which not only you but I am made to feel.
I do not choose that Mr Greyquill should visit me. Yet he calls to enquire after
you." "He is a very impertinent old man, and why he should call here to see me
when he knows that every day I am within a stone's throw of his office, I cannot
tell. He'll get his head broke if he troubles you, sir." "Captain Acton wishes
to see you at eight o'clock this evening. You'll be there?" "Oh, depend upon it.
This is a great offer. He is extremely obliging." "And I must hope," said the
Admiral, "since this opportunity has been brought about by me, that you will do
me the justice to take care to present yourself in such a state as shall not
excite his resentment, or, which is worse, result in the cancellation of his
offer." The old gentleman spoke with sternness, and held his eyes fastened upon
his son, who cried: "Oh sir, I am not such a fool as to run any risks with this
stroke of fortune." "You will present yourself at eight," said the Admiral a
little more softly, "and I have no doubt whatever that you will receive the
offer which will be properly executed to-morrow. I believe that the _Minorca_
sails early next month. You will have time to obtain the few clothes you may
require. The dress of the Merchant sailor is inexpensive. Indeed, a man in the
Merchant Service dresses as he pleases. It is a warm voyage, and you'll find a
few white clothes useful. I do not suppose you'll be expected to know anything
about stowage and the like. But you will pick up what you want as you go.
Captain Acton spoke of the mate as a respectable, though illiterate man. He
doubtless understands his part, and little more will be expected from you than
the navigation of the ship to her port, a careful attention to your owner's
interests, and a strict execution of such commands as you may receive with
regard to obtaining a freight and matters of that sort, of which I confess I am
ignorant." Sir William now rose from the table and went to an armchair at the
open window, upon the seat or ledge of which stood a jar of tobacco, some clay
pipes, and a little machine for firing a match dipped in brimstone, a very
ingenious contrivance as old as the days of the second Charles: namely, a little
pistol-shaped fire-maker whose trigger struck a full and brilliant spark from
the flint and kindled the tinder. He filled his pipe and lighted it, and sat in
conversation with his son, in whom the particular humour or mood would have been
extremely hard to settle by the most sagacious of critical observers. He was
speedy in answering his father, and his language did not show much abstraction
of mind; but even the Admiral noticed that there was an undercurrent of thought
in his son which was pursuing a very different course from the stream as it
appeared on the surface. Sir William, however, was a man not in the habit of
taking long or deep views. His son was thinking of his good luck, of his meeting
that evening with Captain Acton, of the opportunities for advancement which now
lay before him, and these reflections would naturally colour his manner and make
him appear somewhat strange to those who knew him best. Captain Acton received
Mr Lawrence in his library, a small but very elegant room. It was lighted by wax
candles on the table and wax candles on the chimney-piece. Its walls were
covered with valuable books in finely carved cases. Captain Acton was reading
when Mr Lawrence was announced. He immediately put down his book and rose. It
would have been easy to see that he was struck by and pleased with the fine
figure and handsome face of Mr Lawrence as he strode through the doorway, bowing
with dignity and grace as he advanced. Of course the Captain was perfectly well
acquainted with Mr Lawrence; he had been to his house to dinner on more than one
occasion with Sir William; they had met at the Admiral's house and out-of-doors.
Yet Captain Acton appeared to find in Mr Lawrence this evening a quality of
bearing, a character of masculine beauty which had not certainly before
impressed him to anything like the same degree. He had carefully dressed
himself; his manner betokened complete self-possession; his handsome eyes shone
clear and steady, and his face exhibited a mind whose command over itself was
complete. The worn look partly due to dissipation, partly due to the hard life
of the sea which was often injuriously visible by daylight, was now concealed in
the soft veil of light shed by the wax candles. They shook hands, and seated
themselves. "Your father has doubtless acquainted you with my object in asking
you to call upon me this evening." "He has, sir." "Are you willing to accept the
command of the _Minorca_?" "I am indeed, and have no words in which to convey my
thanks to you for your kindness." "Oh, say no more, sir, about that. I am
pleased with the idea of a Naval officer being in charge of my ship." And here
Captain Acton again viewed the face and form of the young man with a pleasure
and satisfaction the other could scarcely miss, though it was delicately
tempered by Acton's natural gravity and his well-bred air. And now for a short
time the conversation wholly referred to the business part of the compact.
Captain Acton named the terms, stated the nature of the voyage and his
expectations, spoke of the cargo and the consignees, and of his agent at
Kingston. Mr Lawrence listened with intelligence, and the questions which he put
were all to the point. "The rig of the vessel," said Captain Acton, "is unusual.
She is called a barque. The idea of fore and aft canvas only upon the mizzen-
mast is French. I am told that rig is very handy in stays. Do you know the ship,
sir?" "I was never on board of her, but I know her very well. I admire her
figure, though I do not think she is so finely moulded as your schooner, the
_Aurora_." "Oh, certainly not, and as a consequence the _Aurora_ sails two feet
to the _Minorca's_ one. That schooner is almost due. She is commonly very
punctual. She earns more money than the _Minorca_. No doubt all will have been
well with her until she enters the Chops. But the Western squadrons have done
great work. They have swept the French corsairs off the narrow waters and
huddled the lily-livered rogues into their own ports. The _Minorca_ is lightly
armed: four eighteen-pounder carronades, for her business is to run and not to
chase. You'll have to keep a bright look-out, sir. Your business must be to give
your heels to everything that stirs your suspicion." "I assure you, sir," said
Mr Lawrence, with a smile which added a freshness to his beauty by that light,
"that I have no idea of taking command of your ship with a view to a French
prison." After some further conversation to this effect, during which it was
manifest that Captain Acton was very well satisfied with the generous resolution
he had formed that morning to offer the command of the _Minorca_ to Sir
William's son, he left his chair and conducted Mr Lawrence to the drawing-room.
Wax candles burning purely and softly in sconces and candelabra illuminated an
interior of singular elegance and rich in luxury. Lucy started from the piano,
the sounds of which had been audible outside before the gentleman opened the
door. Her beauty, her costume were in exquisite keeping with the objects which
filled that room, the repository of the tasteful and sumptuous selections of
several generations of Actons. Lucy's garb was the picturesque attire of that
age: the neck and a portion of the bosom were exposed; a handsome medallion
brooch decorated the bust; the arms were bare to above the elbows; the girdle
gave her gown a waist just under the bosom. In that light all that was tender
and lovely in her gained in softness, sweetness, and delicacy. Her rich bloom
had the divine tenderness of the flush of sunset when in the east the velvet
deeps are enriched with the diamond-throb of the first of the stars. Not far
from the large old-fashioned hearth beside a little table on which stood a work-
basket, sat in a tall-backed arm-chair fit for a queen to be crowned in, a
figure that must have carried the memory of a middle-aged or old man of that
time well back into the past century. She was Miss Acton, Lucy's Aunt Caroline,
sister of Captain Acton, a lady of about seventy years of age, who trembled with
benevolence and imaginary alarms, who was always doing somebody good, and was
now at work upon some baby clothing for an infant that had been born a week or
two before. She belonged to a race whose extinction Francis Grose lamented. She
was what was termed an antiquated gentlewoman whose dress was a survival of the
fashion of two if not three earlier generations: consisting of a stiff-starched
cap and hood, a little hoop and a rich silk damask gown with large flowers. She
acted as housekeeper to her brother, and the keys of the cupboards jingled at
her side. She was choice in her stores, which included cordial waters, cherry
and raspberry brandy, Daffy's Elixir, pots of currant jelly and raspberry jam,
and her stock also comprised salves, electuaries, and purges for the poor. When
she walked she leaned, perhaps a little affectedly, on an ivory-handled crutch
stick, and a fat pug dog rolled in her wake. This pug now snored alongside of
her, and the little terrier slept with its paws upon the pug's stomach. Mr
Lawrence was extremely easy. There was nothing of the embarrassment in the
presence of ladies which is often visible even in well-bred men who have fallen
from their estate, and pass their days in liquor and in looking in and out of
such haunts as "The Swan." Indeed, his well-governed behaviour had something of
a pre-determined air as of a man who acts a part and with all the resolution of
his soul means to carry it through, though he may be obstructed by physical pain
or by mental distress. After a few airy nothings of salutation and the like had
been exchanged and all were seated, Captain Acton said: "Lucy, I am now to
introduce Mr Lawrence to you in a new character; he is the captain of the
_Minorca_." "What is that you say?" cried Aunt Caroline, starting in her chair
and peering over her gold-rimmed glasses at Mr Lawrence. "I have given Mr
Lawrence the command of my ship, sister," said Captain Acton. "The news does not
surprise me," said Lucy. "I think I told you this morning, sir, that Sir William
wished to see you. Do you like the idea of commanding the _Minorca_?" "Very much
indeed, madam. My inclination leans wholly towards the Merchant Service. I would
rather command the _Minorca_ than a line-of-battle ship." He smiled faintly, as
though he guessed she would not believe this, and she could not miss the
expression of bitterness in his smile which, as she was well acquainted with the
story of his career, she perfectly understood. In truth she felt a little
grieved for him. It was pitiful to think of so handsome and gallant a young
fellow descending from the lofty platform of the King's Service to take charge
of a poor little Merchant vessel whose one officer, a mate, was as ignorant and
common a fellow as any that could be found in the 'tween decks of a man-of-war,
remote from the society of the ward and gun rooms, though on board the _Minorca_
Mr Eagle would be Mr Lawrence's associate. "Are you not afraid to take the
command of a ship, sir?" enquired Miss Acton, who continued to peer at Mr
Lawrence over her glasses. "Afraid, madam!" "Afraid, sister!" echoed Captain
Acton. "Your question reminds me of a story of Lord Howe: a lieutenant having
reported the ship on fire returned, and said that his lordship need not feel
afraid as the fire was out. 'Afraid!' exclaimed Howe, 'How does a man feel when
he is afraid? I need not ask how he looks!'" "It is such a very serious
undertaking," said Miss Acton. "I cannot imagine a more responsible position
than that of captain of a ship. If she sinks or is consumed by fire or strikes
upon the rocks and the people perish, the captain, whether he survives or not,
is answerable. If he dies with the people he goes before God, who judges him. It
is dreadful. If I commanded a ship and lost lives, I could never sleep. I should
not know what to do for seeing the spirits of the dead. I should feel that they
all looked to me to return them their lives, and how terrible it must be to feel
helpless when you are pleaded to by spirits who wring their hands and wail." Mr
Lawrence viewed the old lady with silent astonishment. "If all thought like you,
aunt," said Lucy, "we should get no captains at all for our ships, and how
delighted the French would be to learn that our men-of-war could not leave port
because captains were not to be got." She received a smile full of perception of
her point from Mr Lawrence. "Well, I did not think of it in that way," said Miss
Acton, who was active again with her needle and talking at her work. "Of course
we must have captains for our men-of-war. I hope there is no fresh news of
invasion." "Nothing more since the privateersman was run in," said Captain
Acton. "Oh, aunt, whilst I think of it," cried Lucy, "poor Mr Eagle, the mate of
the _Minorca_, is suffering badly from rheumatism in his ankles. He can hardly
stand. I told him that I would ask you to send him something to ease him." "I am
sure I do not know what is good for rheumatism," said Miss Acton, with the
petulance that attends a sudden anxiety of benevolence. "It is a most
troublesome disease. You may rub and rub, and you only make it fly to another
place, and often rubbing takes the skin off. I will send him some sulphur to put
in his stockings, and I will see what else there is to be done for the poor
man." And here, looking over her glasses again at Mr Lawrence, she said: "Pray,
can you tell me how Mrs Bigg is, sir?" "Mrs Bigg, ma'am! I never heard of her."
"She lives at Uphill Cottage, and lay in of a very fine baby a fortnight
yesterday, and has done very poorly since. You cannot tell me how she does?" "I
cannot, madam." At this moment the door was opened and the butler entered with a
large sparkling silver tray of refreshments--wines and spirits, and cakes of
several kinds. But Mr Lawrence would take nothing. He had done very well, he
said. He had supped handsomely with his father off a round of cold boiled beef.
The hospitality of the tray was not pressed upon him; Miss Lucy took some wine
and water, and a small draught of cordial waters was placed beside Miss Acton.
"Your father was telling me a few days ago," said Captain Acton, "of a narrow
escape of yours, sir." "I have met with several. To which did he refer?" "To
that of the punt in which you attempted to sail from Plymouth to Falmouth." Mr
Lawrence smiled. When his smile was dictated by some honest or candid emotion,
free from irritation or contempt, or any of the passions which make merriment
forced and alarming, the expression gave a particular pleasure to the beholder.
It was full of heart, and seemed to lighten his beauty of much of its burden of
wear and tear. "What was the story, sir?" asked Lucy. "A story of foolhardiness,
madam, largely due to my difficulty in foreseeing issues." The remark appeared
to impress Captain Acton, who fastened his eyes upon the speaker. "I had made up
my mind to go from Plymouth to Falmouth in a small punt. She was fourteen feet
long. When I had got some distance away, my hat was blown overboard. I secured
the tiller a-lee, threw off my clothes, and jumped after my hat. As I was
returning with the hat the sail filled, the boat got way on her and sailed some
distance before she came up in the wind. I had almost reached her when she
filled again. This happened three or four times. At length I managed by a
frantic struggle to catch a hold of the rudder, but I was so exhausted that it
was long before I had strength to get into the boat." This tale induced Captain
Acton to indulge in the recital of a hair-breadth escape of his own, but a flow
of exciting anecdotes was arrested by Miss Acton declaring that she was not
strong enough to bear to hear such horrid, moving stories, particularly just a
little before bed-time. Lucy was somewhat puzzled by Mr Lawrence. His behaviour
was cool, gentleman-like, distant, cautious, entirely sober, and for the most
part he expressed himself with a high degree of intelligence. She could not but
remember that in the morning when, to be sure, he might be said to have been
"flown with wine and insolence," he had, with a passion which assuredly borrowed
nothing of heat from liquor, plucked a daisy and bade her put it to her sweet
lips and return it to him, and he had then concealed the little flower in his
pocket as the only sacred treasure he possessed. This evening his bearing was on
the whole as formal and collected as though she was but an acquaintance in whose
company he could sit without being overcome by her charms. The passion of the
morning was genuine and sincere, drink or no drink; the behaviour this evening
was calculated and extraordinary. Perhaps in the delicate candlelight she might
not catch every expression of eye, every movement of mouth, every shade of
change in the expression of the whole face, so that she would justly imagine she
had missed through defective illumination the impassioned look, the swift
pencilling by rapture of the lineaments which her maiden's intuition gave her
eloquently and convincingly to know must be the secret homage of his heart, let
him mask his handsome and worn face as he would. "I wish, madam," said he, "that
you would return to the piano at which we interrupted you. "Papa will not thank
me for making a noise." "Oh, my dear, don't say that. I am quite sure that if
you will play, Mr Lawrence will afterwards sing, and I shall be charmed to hear
you, sir, for I recollect your sweet and powerful voice both here and at your
father's." "There is little that I would not do to oblige you, sir," answered Mr
Lawrence, and going to the piano he stood beside it, as though waiting for Lucy
to seat herself at the instrument. "Lucy, my dear," exclaimed Miss Acton, "play
'Now, Goody, Please to Moderate,' or 'My Lodging is on the Cold Ground,' or
'Sally in our Alley.' I do not care which. They are all very beautiful, and I
know no song, brother, that carries me back like 'Sally in our Alley.' Do you
remember how finely our father used to sing it? He was at Dr Burney's one night,
sir," said she, talking to Mr Lawrence, "when a famous Italian singer of that
day--who was it now?--she was as yellow as a guinea, and her hoops were so large
there were many doors she could not pass through--who was it now? But no matter;
after my father had sung she stepped over to him, and curtsying as though she
would sit before him, she said: 'I have often heard this song sung and thought
nothing of it. But now, sir, I shall ever regard it as the loveliest composition
in English music.'" "Ay, father had a very fine voice, to be sure," said Captain
Acton, "and so has Mr Lawrence." Lucy had now taken her seat at the piano, and
as the airs her aunt desired were well known to her, she played them from ear,
whilst Miss Acton in her stiff-backed chair, kept time, with much facial
demonstration of enjoyment, with her starched cap and hood. "Will you now sing
us a song, Mr Lawrence?" exclaimed Captain Acton. "With the greatest pleasure.
What should it be?" As Miss Acton loved "Sally in our Alley," he would be happy
to sing it. Lucy touched the keys. CHAPTER IV

THE _AURORA_

Next morning after Captain Acton had read prayers, he stepped on to the lawn to
take the air for half an hour before breakfast, and was immediately followed by
Lucy, who had hardly reached his side when Miss Acton appeared on the hall steps
and carefully descended the broad flight, leaning on her crutch cane and
followed by her pug. It was a charming spring morning, warm as June and
brilliant as a diamond. The sea was white with the light of the sun, and the
radiance of the water clarified the sky into a tender azure, along which floated
a number of little mother-of-pearl clouds brushed by a breeze which kept sea and
land in motion with a feathering of ripples and the dance of shadows. "I cannot
think of anything but sulphur for poor Mr Eagle's feet," said Miss Acton, as she
approached father and daughter. "I will give you a packet for him after
breakfast. Is not this a morning to lift up one's heart in rejoicing? How fair
is this prospect! How tender and promising this scene of garden! How quiet the
old town looks upon the hill! The heart swells in gratitude to God on such a
morning as this." "Very true, sister," said Captain Acton, "and I hope we are
all grateful; I am sure I am. I was very well pleased with our friend Mr
Lawrence last night. I witnessed nothing in him that I could have wished not to
see. I do not know that I ever met a more gentlemanlike man. He holds himself
very well. He has a fine figure, and I like his type of good looks; it is manly.
The face is a little weather-worn perhaps." "'Tis a pity he cannot command his
appetites," said Miss Acton. "How would my heart bleed if he were my son! Poor,
dear Sir William! with what Christian fortitude has he resigned himself to the
wretchedness of seeing his son out of the Navy, and squandering his precious
time in drinking with Lieutenant Tupman." "He can control himself," said Captain
Acton. "Did you observe, Lucy, that he refused all refreshments last night? Now,
a man who is radically and incurably a sot cannot view a decanter of anything to
drink, and the stronger the worse, without thirsting for it. And did ever such a
man say no to an invitation to drink with the liquor standing up in a bottle in
front of him?" "I am sure he is a man of resolution," said Lucy. "I never look
at him without seeming to see why it is he should be so gallant and desperate a
fighter at sea. He has a cast of face that is very uncommon, full of power of
thought, and the shape of his head is like that Greek bust in the library. How
is it that a man with his spirit is unable to deny himself what he knows must
speedily bring him to ruin?" "It is not only drink," said Miss Acton. "They tell
me he is accustomed to bet very heavily." "He will mend. He shall have a
chance," said Captain Acton cheerily. "I love his old father, and I am strongly
disposed to like his son; and I am an ill judge of human nature if I am wrong in
predicting that the command I have given him will lead to his reformation. I
have ever found it true that the way to make a man honest is to let him
understand that you have a cordial faith in his good intentions. He must be a
black-hearted rogue beyond hope who disappoints the high and reassuring
expectations you give him to know you have formed of him." "Mr Lawrence has a
beautiful voice," said Lucy. "How touchingly he sang 'Tom Bowling'!" "I could
love him for his way of singing 'Sally in our Alley,'" said Miss Acton. "But the
song in his mouth has not the moving sweetness papa gave it." At this moment
Captain Acton cried out, halting as he uttered the words with his eyes fixed in
the direction of Old Harbour: "Bless my soul! what can have happened? Is the
French Flotilla in sight?" "The French Flotilla!" exclaimed Miss Acton. "In
sight, do you say?" "What can be the meaning of it?" said Captain Acton. "What
do you see? The French Flotilla?" cried Miss Acton in a voice tremulous with
agitation. She darted her eyes through her glasses over the sea. "If the French
Flotilla is not in sight," said Captain Acton, "what can be the intention of Mr
Tupman rising at this very early hour and getting his brig under weigh? For
certainly the _Saucy_ is making a start for something or somewhere. Do you see
her sheeting home her canvas, Lucy?" "She is going out for a little cruise, no
doubt," said Lucy. "I quite agree, but it is so unusual for Tupman to be out of
bed at this hour that we cannot but think that something very important and
dangerous has called him from his moorings. No, sister, the flat-bottomed boats
are not in sight yet, and I suspect we shall have to go on staring for many a
week, and many a month, if not for ever, before we sight them coming along in a
shoal with the little cocked-hatted usurper, his arms folded upon his breast,
watching the van from the hindmost, for he is one of those mighty conquerors who
are very careful of their own precious carcasses." It was as Captain Acton said:
the _Saucy_ brig-of-war was getting under weigh, and it might be safely
concluded for no other purpose than to exercise the crew by an off-shore trip.
Captain Acton and the two ladies stood watching the little toy figure away down
in the river's mouth. Sail was made with man-of-war despatch; all the clews were
sheeted home together, the yards at the same time mounting, so that all at once
it seemed the little vessel broke into a broad, bright, shapely glare of canvas,
slightly leaning from the breeze as she softly crept round and pointed her
bowsprit seaward, and whitening the water under her with the power of a floating
body of radiance. "Well done, Tupman!" cried Captain Acton, who watched the
manoeuvre with a sailor's interest. "Sluggard as you are, you have your little
ship and her people well in hand. I wonder if there's a foreigner afloat that
could have made sail with the despatch that brig exhibited?" The little leaning
vessel, diminished by the distance from which she was surveyed into a size fit
only to be manned by Liliputian sailors, crept like a small white cloud along
the placid water of Old Harbour, and rounding the pier hauled the wind for a
south-westerly course. They watched her as she streamed onwards with a sparkle
as pretty as a rainbow at her fore-foot, and a short scope of trembling lustre
astern as though she towed a length of satin. A few minutes before she
disappeared from the sight of those who viewed her from the lawn of Old Harbour
House, past the bluff or round of cliff on which stood the dropsical old
lighthouse, she dipped her flag manifestly in response to a hidden salutation,
and scarcely had she vanished when there stole out from the edge of the cliff
round which she had gone, the slanting figure of a large three-masted schooner
with the English ensign at her peak. She was steering directly for Old Harbour.
Though she had evidently come a long journey, she made upon those silver-white
rippling waters a far handsomer figure than the brig. She was clothed from truck
to waterway with sails which reflected the light of the morning with something
of the splendour of polished metal. Her hull was black, but she was inclined
sufficiently by the breeze to reveal a narrow breadth of copper sheathing, which
sprang pulses of wet dazzling light upon the eye in keen flashes like gun fire.
"The _Aurora_!" cried Captain Acton. "How nobly she sits! How her sharp bows eat
into it! Does not she come along handsomely? What a slaver she would make!
Nothing flying the British flag could catch her. I did not conceive her due
before next Wednesday. She has not been nabbed this voyage, at all events." "She
floats in like a swan," said Miss Acton. "A most unfortunate image, sister,"
rejoined the Captain, laughing; "for a swan's white bulk sits low upon the
water, whilst yonder beauty is all airy, cloudlike height." The breakfast bell
at this moment summoned them from the lawn. At table Captain Acton said that he
had asked Mr Lawrence to meet him at his office down on the quay at half-past
ten. This office was in a little house a few minutes' walk from the warehouses.
Captain Acton employed a person who looked after his affairs, who, with the
assistance of a couple of clerks, saw to the delivery and loading of cargoes, to
the needs of the ships in respect of gear, canvas, carpenters' and boatswains'
stores, and so forth. But not the less did the gallant Captain take an interest
in his own business. He was laudably anxious to promote the prosperity of Old
Harbour and Old Harbour Town, but though he was a rich man--a very rich man
indeed in those days, having come into a fortune of eighty thousand pounds,
together with the finely wooded and beautiful freehold estate known as Old
Harbour House--he was by no means disposed to lose money in marine speculation;
so he kept a keen eye upon the books, examined narrowly all the demands which
were made for the ship's furniture, closely watched the markets in rum, sugar,
and coffee, and having a clear perception of the risks of war, justly appraised
the value of his tonnage to those who desired consignments through his bottoms.
Shortly after breakfast he left the house and walked by way of the lane to the
Harbour. Lucy was not a young lady to sit idle. She could find something to do
in every hour in the day. As Miss Acton did the housekeeping, Lucy was left to
her own inventions, and being a girl of several resources, she was very happy in
pleasing herself. Miss Acton went to look after the affairs of the home, and to
attend to the needs of a little congregation of poor who were ushered into the
housekeeper's room one after another every morning, excepting Sunday, where they
stated their wants and obtained such relief as Miss Acton's closets, stocked
from her own purse, could supply; and if they did not get always exactly what
they wished, they were sure of tender and consoling words, of sympathetic
enquiry into their troubles, of a promise of some stockings for little James
next week, of a roll of flannel for old Martha the day after to-morrow. Pleasant
and instructive it might have been to witness this old lady in her hoop and
flowered gown asking questions, handing purges, promising little gifts of
apparel to the poor people, who ceaselessly sank in curtsies, or plucked at
wisps of hair upon their foreheads whilst they scraped the ground behind with
their feet. Lucy first of all spent three-quarters of an hour in drawing. She
was a charming picture as she sat in the library bending over her board; her
eyes dwelt in their beauty of lids and heavy lashes, sometimes with a little
fire of pleasure, sometimes with a little life of impatience, upon the motions
of her pencil and its results, and perhaps not always did she think of what she
was about, for now and again the pencil would stand idle in her hand, the
natural glow of her cheek would slightly deepen as to some visitation of moving
thought; her eyes would lift in languor from her work to the open window, upon
the bit of landscape which it framed, beautiful with the small darts, and
curves, and lights of springtime in the trees, they appeared to brood in
contemplation from which she broke sometimes with a faint smile, sometimes with
an expression upon her sweet lips which found a deeper loveliness for her
naturally pensive look. When she had done with her drawing, she went to the
piano and passed another half-hour at that instrument, then took up some work
which she presently neglected for a novel, and shortly after eleven o'clock she
mounted to her bedroom to prepare herself for a drive with her aunt. At half-
past eleven a carriage and pair drove through the gates and stopped in front of
the house, and there fell from the box a groom in a livery of brass buttons and
orange facings, who posted himself opposite the hall door and with crooked knee
studied the entrance with trained intentness. He was not kept waiting long. The
hall door was opened, and Mr Bates, the butler, appeared with a shawl and rug
and the pug. A few minutes later Miss Acton and Lucy entered the carriage, one
nursing her pug, the other her terrier. And when some parcels were put in they
were driven away. "I can think of nothing better than sulphur for poor Mr
Eagle's feet. Here is a packet of it, enough, I believe, to enable him to walk
in sulphur for quite a fortnight," said Miss Acton. They had arranged to drive
as far as the bridge, where they would quit the carriage and walk along the
wharves to view the _Aurora_ and give the sulphur to Mr Eagle. But there were
several places to be visited first of all: Mrs Bigg was to be enquired after; a
little basket of comforts in the shape of tea, sugar, and the like was to be
left at Mrs Lavender's, whose husband had fallen into a disused pit, and after
lying in it all night, during which it rained heavily and continuously, he was
discovered by a boy, and later on hauled up with both his legs broken. Several
such errands of kindness and compassion must render the drive to the bridge
circuitous. As the carriage went down a lane into the main road, it overtook Sir
William Lawrence, who was stoutly trudging along in the direction of Old
Harbour, striking the ground as he went with a staff with the regularity of the
pounding of a wooden leg whose owner marches steadily. "Pray, get in! Pray, get
in, Sir William!" cried Miss Acton, after telling the coachman to stop, and in a
few moments the hearty old gentleman was seated opposite the ladies and the
carriage proceeding. "I am on a visit to Old Harbour," said the Admiral, "to
inspect the _Minorca_. Now that my son is in command of her I am doubly
interested in the ship. Were you ever on board of her, Miss?" "Yes, sir,"
answered Lucy. "I paid her a visit with papa when she returned home before this
voyage, but I was never in her cabin." "We will explore it together. I hope to
have the pleasure of handing you over the side, ma'am," said the Admiral to Miss
Acton. "If the ship is perfectly motionless I might venture to step on to the
deck," answered Aunt Caroline, "but I could not enter the cabin, sir. I believe
the smell would instantly oppress me with nausea. I am a shocking bad sailor;
even the sight of a rocking ship at a distance provokes an indescribable and a
very disagreeable sensation." "You, madam, are not to be so easily upset,"
exclaimed the Admiral, looking with undissembled admiration at the beautiful,
glowing girl seated opposite, never more fascinating than in the dress in which
she had apparelled herself this morning. Her large hat sat lightly on one side
her head, and the fringes of her rich and abundant hair were like little
pencilled shadowings upon her fair brow, save that now and again the passage of
the carriage made these fairy tresses tremble. "My son passed a delightful
evening at your father's." "Nobody could have been more agreeable, sir," said
Miss Acton. "He has a sweet, strong voice, and sings with great feeling." "Oh
yes, he has the makings of a fine fellow in him," exclaimed the Admiral, with
his face clouding somewhat. "It is not for me to say so, but there was a time
when I was proud of my son. Such was his zeal and gallantry in the Service that
I sometimes flattered myself the day would come when, like Lord Nelson, he would
have a gazette to himself. His opportunities in the Navy are passed. Even if he
could be reinstated I doubt if he would return, so lively, unnaturally lively,
is the resentment and aversion which the sentence of the court-martial excited
in him. It is a pity--it is a pity!" The hearty old gentleman sighed, and his
eyes reposed in thought upon the face of Lucy. She may have found an
intelligence in his gaze which it did not possess. Her cheeks were a little
warmer. She cast her eyes down. The expression of the whole face was peculiarly
pensive. Whatever may have been the thoughts in the Admiral's mind at that time
it is certain that among the mortifications and regrets his son's conduct caused
him, must be ranked the consideration that Mr Lawrence, had he governed his
conduct with prudence, would have stood a very good chance of winning the hand
of Lucy Acton. The Admiral knew that his son had proposed to the lady, and his
partiality as a father could not blind him to the reasons of his rejection. He
had cause to suppose that in his quiet, unostentatious way Captain Acton had
taken a favourable view of Lawrence's suit. But the sentence of the court-
martial, and his subsequent lazy, sottish life ashore had utterly extinguished
the lieutenant's chances so far as Captain Acton was concerned. Naturally Sir
William grieved over this consideration. Here was a beautiful girl and an
heiress, belonging to one of the oldest families in the country; her father had
exhibited no marked ambition in the direction of her marriage; he was willing to
leave her to choose, having confidence in her judgment, and convinced that her
choice would be dictated by regard to her own happiness. Like Sir William, he
loved his old calling, and a naval alliance would have been gratifying to him.
There was indeed much for the poor old Admiral to deplore, and no doubt Lucy had
some delicate sense of what might be or should have been as she sat with her
cheeks a little deepened in colour and her eyes pensively bent downwards. The
carriage stopped opposite the steps on the bridge down which Sir William,
holding Miss Acton by the hand, conducted the old lady with admirable solicitude
for her safety, begging her not to hurry, but to lean upon him and not trust to
her cane. The two dogs were left behind. The scene of the quay-side was gay and
indeed festive. The few ships had hoisted colours in celebration of the
_Aurora's_ arrival, and the large flags of those days streaming from mast-head
and gaff-end and ensign-staff and jack-staff combined with the brilliant blue of
the sky, the light and lovely greenery of spring that clothed the ravine's
slopes, the sober hue of the cliffs, the white shape of the squab lighthouse
past which some gulls were wheeling, the chocolate tint of the revolving
windmill, the sober grey of the houses and the diamond sparkle of the river with
its softened reflection of bridge and banks streaming into its heart in
dreamlike shadow of what was mirrored: this combination, I say, coupled with the
motions and colours of human life on the quay-side, albeit the beer hour had
struck and the picture owed nothing of animation to the workmen, fascinated the
eye with the calm, the freshness, and the glory of a little English sea-piece,
Sabbath-like in repose, lighted by the sun of April beaming in a perfectly fair
heaven. Naturally the arrival of the _Aurora_, as of any ship, but particularly
a vessel belonging to the port, must be an incident full of active interest. The
wives and children of the crew lived in Old Harbour Town; the men were related
to two-thirds of the people of the place. The return from a considerable voyage
of a ship in those days was not the commonplace familiar happening of every day
which it now is. Ships sailed in convoys, and arrived in groups at long
intervals. Again a ship was attended with a passion of interest which is no
longer felt. Will she fall in with the enemy? Will she escape him? There was
much to tell after a voyage in those days no matter into what regions of the
globe a vessel sailed: new lands to discover; amazing and enriching products of
the soil to be reported. New races were to be met with. Indeed in 1805 Sydney
Cove in New Holland, which had been settled by Phillip in 1787, was scarcely
thought of as a new land in this country, it was too recent and remote; it was
to supply reports later on, news which was to startle and excite the nation,
differing only in kind from the information ships returned with from the East
Indies and China and the great continent of South America. Therefore, when a
ship was newly come home even to a little maritime scene such as Old Harbour,
there was plenty to hold groups in animated converse on the quay-side. The
_Aurora_ had hauled in to her berth; the crew were busy in unbending her sails.
The _Minorca_ lay close enough to establish a contrast, and everybody would have
admitted that if the barque was a smart ship for her time, the three-masted
schooner built by the Americans was as shapely a fabric as the gracefullest then
afloat. The Admiral and the ladies paused before her on their way to the
_Minorca_, which lay further on. They would not go on board; there was too much
confusion. The captain, however, stumping the quarterdeck and shouting orders,
saw and recognised them. He was a thick-set man, brick-red in complexion, with
deep-red greasy hair, ear-rings, brown eyes, and a mouth that through some
injury was drawn a little way up into his left cheek. He came to the bulwark-
rail with his hat in his hand, and as the Admiral and the ladies stepped to the
quay-side to speak to him, he exclaimed: "Happy to see you, ma'am. And my hearty
respects to you, Miss, and I hope that Admiral Lawrence is none the worse for
remaining ashore." "Glad to see you safely back, Captain Weaver," cried Miss
Acton. "What a very quick voyage you have made this time, Captain Weaver!"
called out Lucy. "Some Frenchman had the scent of ye, Captain, hey, and gave you
heels?" exclaimed Sir William. "There's sometimes the virtue of half a gale of
wind in a round shot, eh, Captain?" "Why, sir," answered the Captain, "it is
true that we was chased, but that didn't make us the voyage the young lady's
obliging enough to praise us for. Off the Scillies a French frigate hove in
sight on the weather bow, but what could she do with us? I eased off and got her
abeam, soon afterwards on the quarter; I then luffed, sir, making a tight jam of
it, and crossed her bows at the distance of about three mile. She threw a few
shot at us, but what's a frigate a-going to do with a vessel as can look up as
the _Aurora_ does, until by thunder the wind seems blowing fore-and-aft?" He ran
his eyes proudly over the spars of his vessel and along the length of her. "I am
glad to know that you return and find your wife and little boy well," said Lucy.
"Oh thank you, mum, thank you, and it's deeply beholden I am to you and Miss
Acton for calling and enquiring after them, not to mention presents which leaves
my Sarah most grateful indeed. That there little Tommy of mine grows like a ship
you're arisin'. Because I'm his father I'm not goin' to pretend he don't improve
every voyage." "Put him into the Royal Navy," said the Admiral. "The King wants
chips of old blocks like you." "No fear, sir," called the Captain over the
bulwark-rail, with a steady shake of the head and a smile that merely ran his
mouth higher into his cheek. "I've set my 'eart upon making him a lawyer. He
shall end like old Mr Greyquill, as rich and as comfortable; and when he's old
he'll hang out a white head of hair like a flag of truce, to let the world
understand he don't want any more quarrelling." "Good!" cried the Admiral with a
laugh and an applauding flourish of the hand, and with this laugh, and smiles
and bows from the ladies, Sir William and his companions pursued their way to
the _Minorca_. It was apparently a morning half-holiday with Old Harbour Town.
Groups stood or walked about the wharves in talk. Most of the people
respectfully saluted the ladies and the Admiral, who, one or another, had for
every other person a kindly sentence or a pleasant smile. Standing in the
gangway of the _Minorca_ was Mr Lawrence, who had manifestly seen the party
approaching, though himself had been hidden from them by the interposition of
the main shrouds. He crossed the planks which connected the ship with the shore,
and stood with his hat in his hand as though they were royalty. "Is papa on
board?" asked Lucy. "No, madam. I left him at his offices about half an hour
ago." "We have come down to look over your ship, Walter," said the Admiral,
sending from the wharf-side a sailor's knowing glance up at the masts and spars
of the barque. "You'll not have had time yet, but I trust whilst you're in
harbour you will set a good example to others by keeping your gear hauled taut
and your yards square to a hair by lift and brace." "She shall look as smart as
she can be made to look, sir," answered Mr Lawrence. "Permit me to conduct you
on board, madam." He had the grace, sense, and tact, to offer his hand to Miss
Acton, who said: "Do not let go of me. Those are very narrow planks. If I should
be left alone in the middle, I should turn giddy and tumble." "Trust to me,
madam," said Mr Lawrence, and taking the old lady by the hand he marched her on
to the planks, and they went in safety over the side into the ship. The Admiral
and Lucy followed. The decks were empty, the men were at dinner. She was a flush
deck ship, that is to say, her decks ran fore-and-aft without a break. She was
steered by a wheel placed aft, which was unusual. Her deck furniture was simple:
she had the necessary companion-way to the cabin, a little caboose or kitchen
abaft the foremast, and abaft that again a long boat secured keel up to ring
bolts by lashings. She also carried a couple of boats secured under the
bulwarks. Her artillery was trifling: four eighteen-pounder carronades, two of a
side, the purpose of which it was idle to enquire, because, as she carried but
twelve seamen, two boys, a steward, and a cook, she was not likely to make much
show of resistance against a pirate with the blood-red flag of "No Quarter" at
his mast-head, or any ship of the enemy which, though but a lugger, would
certainly be far more heavily armed and manned than the _Minorca_. "A fine sweep
of deck," said the Admiral. "Lord, how the old spirit comes into one with the
feel of a ship's plank under foot!" "Is Mr Eagle on board?" asked Miss Acton.
"No, madam. He is ashore getting his dinner." "Will you give him this packet of
sulphur, and tell him to put a little into his stockings? I hope it may do the
rheumatism in the poor man's feet good." Mr Lawrence pocketed the packet with a
bow. Occasionally his eye went to Lucy, but he never suffered it to dwell, nor
indeed did he seem to mark his sense of her presence by any particular
behaviour. He was perfectly sober, his eyes clear and beaming, his cheeks
painted with a little colour, and his apparel showed care. His father glanced at
him and seemed well pleased, and Lucy owned to herself that she had never seen
him look more handsome, and that somehow or other no stage seemed to fit his
peculiar type of beauty more happily, with a subtler blending of all qualities
of its furniture with the spirituality of the man, than the deck of a ship with
the rigging soaring. "It is wonderful to think," said Miss Acton, "how far a
ship like this will go. I suppose she would go around the world." "Again and
again, madam, whilst her timbers held." "Around the world!" exclaimed Miss
Acton, looking about her with an expression of awe in her face. "It is a long
way from Old Harbour Town to London. But around the world! I believe I should be
proud had I been around the world. How few who are not sailors can boast of it!"
"Let me conduct you into the cabin, madam," said the Admiral. "No, sir, I must
be content to stop on deck. It is about twenty years ago since I was on the sea.
I crossed from Dover to Calais. We were two days terribly tossed about, and
almost lost upon some sands. I lay dreadfully ill all the time, and on our
arrival at Calais, when I had strength to speak, I said to papa: 'We must return
by the sea, it is true, to get home, but once I am at home, I will never more
put my foot into a ship.'" "But the cabin is motionless, madam," said Mr
Lawrence. "It is the tumbling of the sea that makes you ill. Here we are as
restful as a painting." "The very look of that hole," said the old lady,
directing her eyes at the companion-way, "makes me feel as though if I descended
I should suffer all that nearly killed me in my voyage from Dover to Calais."
"May I have the great honour of showing you the cabin, Miss?" said Mr Lawrence.
"Yes; since I am here I should like to see the ship," answered Lucy. "I will
keep Miss Acton company on deck," said the Admiral. Mr Lawrence led the way
below. A barque of five hundred tons, though she would be regarded as a
considerable ship in those days, will not supply lofty nor extensive cabin
accommodation. This little ship's interior consisted of a cabin into which
daylight passed through a skylight in the deck above. In the middle of this
cabin was a short table capable of seating one at each end and two of a side.
The cabin was painted brown and was somewhat gloomy. The furniture merely
supplied the ordinary needs of the occupants. There were four sleeping berths,
and a little compartment which was used as a pantry. "I never was in a place
like this before," said Lucy, resting her hand upon the table and gazing round
her with the curiosity which a new and striking scene of life must always excite
in an intelligent mind. "The bedrooms are very small," said Mr Lawrence, going
to the berth that confronted the aftermost end of the cabin table and opening
the door. "But at sea any little hole is good enough to stow oneself away in.
Amongst other things, a sailor learns how to sleep, and the habit is so strong
with me of slumbering anywhere that if there was room for me I believe I could
sleep in a hawse-pipe when the ship is pitching bows under." "What a very little
room!" said Lucy, peering in through the door Mr Lawrence held open. "How
fearful to be locked up in such a box when the ship is sinking." "Oh, you must
not think of such things, madam. How fearful to be locked up in your bedroom,
though it should be half as big as this ship, when the house is on fire! Would
not you enjoy a short voyage? The trip to the West Indies is short. It is a
tropical journey, and all the romance of the sea is in it." "In what things,
sir?" "Oh, madam, in magnificent sunsets, in storms of fire which harm not,
though they are as sublime as one might figure a vision of Hell viewed through
such tremendous doors as Milton described; in birds of exquisite plumage, and
flight which is beyond all other forms of grace; in fish of a thousand lustrous
dyes, and the dark wet blue of the long shark; in nights magnificent with such
stars as do not shine upon these Islands. For as you strike south, madam, the
glory of things which are glorious waxes hourly, the moon expands into a nobler
shield, and her path upon the water is a torrent of silver that seems to mark
the depth of the mystic realm it sounds----"

As he spoke these words the companion ladder was darkened, and a moment or two
later Captain Acton entered the cabin. CHAPTER V

PAUL

Captain Acton paused for a few moments at the foot of the companion ladder with
a grave smile on his face. "This is the first time you have been in this cabin,
Lucy, I think," he said. "Yes, sir." "Well, and what do you think of the
accommodation offered by the _Minorca_?" "I hope Miss Acton thinks well of it,"
said Mr Lawrence. "I was trying this moment to tempt her to take a voyage to the
West Indies by a poor description of some of the wonders which are to be met in
the trip." "Oh, if we should think of a journey to the West Indies we should not
choose the _Minorca_," said Captain Acton. "I confess that I have sometimes
myself had a fancy for looking into one or two of the old ports which I remember
as a midshipman. The _Aurora_ would be the ship. She has a speed that would make
me indifferent to pursuit. At the same time there is always the risk of capture,
and as I can no longer serve my country by taking my chance of a French prison,
I believe I am discreetly advised by leaving well alone, that is until peace
comes, if ever it comes. Is not this a very fine cabin, Lucy, considering the
size of the ship?" "I daresay it is, papa, but how should I know? This is the
first cabin I ever was in, and the _Minorca_ and the _Aurora_ are the only two
vessels whose decks I have ever stepped upon." "Then let me tell you there are
countless Naval officers afloat who would reckon themselves in Paradise if they
had such quarters as these to live in. Look at the _Saucy_! The well of a cod
smack is more comfortable than her sleeping places. Take a corvette or gun-brig
stationed on the West Coast of Africa, or kept cruising along the West Indian
shores; the heat strikes through the plank and a man sleeps in a furnace;
cockroaches in numbers thick as ropes blacken the beams, rats ferocious with
thirst are found drowned in the hook pot of cold tea you want to drink.
Everything simmers, the paint even below, if there is any paint to be found,
bubbles, and you are fed on scalding pea soup and beef blue with brine, the very
sight of which raises a craziness of thirst which you slake by rum, for the
cooling of which you might offer your year's pay for a piece of ice. Now, these
are airy quarters. An admiral might well be content with such a living-room." He
looked into one or two of the cabins or sleeping berths, and examined a stand of
arms affixed to a bulkhead just before the companion ladder. "If, sir, you
should be tempted whilst I have the honour of holding command in your service
into taking a trip in one of your vessels to the West Indies," said Mr Lawrence,
"I hope I shall be the one privileged to navigate you and Miss Acton there."
"Oh, we should be in very good hands--very good hands," answered Captain Acton,
lightly regarding him; they had met by appointment not long before at Acton's
offices, and there the gallant Captain had taken notice that Mr Lawrence was as
sober as he himself was, whilst the care with which he had attired himself had
promoted all that was excellent in his person to such a degree that Captain
Acton had never thought him handsomer and on the whole a finer specimen of the
young British Naval officer. Indeed he had congratulated himself on behalf of
his worthy old friend Sir William on having resolved to give his son this
appointment, for it surely looked as though with this gift of a berth, with this
opportunity for honourably employing himself and so getting a little money and
easing his father of the burden of his maintenance, the young fellow's
reformation had begun, and naturally Captain Acton, who was an exceedingly kind-
hearted man and a sound Christian in principle and behaviour, could not but be
happy in the reflection that he might prove instrumental in rescuing a handsome
young man, a gentleman, the son of an old friend, himself a Naval officer, a
person whose character was enriched by many meritorious and some rare qualities,
from the ruin physical and moral into which he was fast decaying through drink
and an idleness which was a consequence of an aversion to his old calling, and
the almost insuperable difficulty of obtaining anything to do whilst loitering
in Old Harbour Town and passing most of his time at "The Swan" with Lieutenant
Tupman. "Mr Lawrence would represent the voyage to the West Indies as beautiful,
wonderful, and indeed magical, as an Arabian Nights dream," said Lucy. "But you
did not tell me of cockroaches, sir," she added with a smile, and with one of
those looks which in her seemed a brooding or dwelling of the eye, though if
judged of its effect by time the look was scarcely more than a glance; yet this
was the consequence of the peculiar beauty of her heavy lids rendered yet more
languid by the fringes through which the large dark brown orbs of vision
directed their gaze. "And you said nothing about the beef blue with salt which
creates thirst before it is tasted." "We will undertake to keep you free from
cockroaches, madam," said Mr Lawrence. "And the beef Captain Acton speaks of is
shipped for the sailors. I believe, sir, it would not be difficult to send aft
every day such a dinner and breakfast as would convince Miss Acton that at sea
all that we eat is not bread-grubs and beef hard enough to carve snuff boxes out
of." "For my part," said Captain Acton, "I don't want to sit down to a better
banquet than a piece of really good ship's pickled beef finely grained, and
cutting delicately and well fatted, and a crisp ship's biscuit, and you may add
a drop of real old Jamaica. I have dined more heartily off such a dish than at
many a dinner ashore of ten or twelve courses." "You were young, sir," said
Lucy, "and you enjoyed all that you ate. There was a good deal that you ate when
you were young that you would not eat now, and even now I doubt whether you
would find the old relish in your prime piece of pickled beef." Captain Acton
smiled, and looked fondly at his daughter, and said pleasantly: "And pray, my
dear, what are Mr Lawrence's temptations to a voyage to the West Indies?" "I
think you spoke of sunsets," she said. Captain Acton broke in: "We have finer
sunsets in England than any you get in the tropics." "Birds of exquisite
plumage, and beyond all forms of known grace in flight." "Ay, but they don't
sing," said Captain Acton. "Give me the song of the thrush or the blackbird
before all the finest feathers in the world." "Wonderfully dyed fish----" said
Lucy. "Oh, madam," said Mr Lawrence, with a little blush in his face, "I did not
intend my poor representation of the fascinations of a voyage to the West Indies
for the ear of so experienced a sailor, and so keen an observer as Captain
Acton." "Well, we may go with you some day, sir," said Captain Acton good-
humouredly, "but peace must be declared before I embark. We are keeping Miss
Acton waiting." He led the way up the companion ladder. Amongst those who just
then were standing upon the quay-side gazing with more or less of interest at
the _Minorca_ and the other vessels moored to the walls, was old Mr Greyquill,
whose figure was immediately conspicuous by reason of his long white hair and
heavily white thatched eyebrows. And this day he wore a round velvet cap such as
might have been suggested to him by a portrait by some old Flemish artist, and a
velvet coat. He stood on the wharf a few paces behind some people who formed a
little group, and peered at the _Minorca_ with the sharp of his hand pressed
against his brow seeking to determine the faces he saw on board. He was too far
off to recognise the Admiral and Captain Acton, who now appeared, but the moment
Mr Lawrence's head was visible above the bulwark-rail he knew him, and seemed to
try to catch his eye, but Lawrence, who instantly perceived him, averted his
gaze or turned his back, and after steadily staring for some moments under the
shelter of his hand the old fellow shuffled off. "Have you secured a berth,
Miss?" asked the Admiral, with a hearty, jolly smile. "Mr Lawrence paints the
voyage to the West Indies in very tempting colours," answered Lucy. "If Lucy and
I should take the trip we should go in the _Aurora_," said Captain Acton. "You!
At your time of life, brother, going a voyage to the West Indies with every
probability of the French making a prisoner of you and Lucy!" cried Miss Acton
in the high key in which she saluted the ear when she was alarmed. "My dear
sister, we are going to do nothing of the sort. Not that a voyage to the West
Indies in such a vessel as the _Aurora_ would be a fearful adventure or a
terrible ordeal. Indeed I never look at that little ship," said he, turning his
eyes in the direction of the schooner, "without a longing to be on her deck when
she is fully clothed, when the liberal breeze of the sea blows steadily, and
when bending under her white heights she springs like the flying fish from one
sparkling sea to another, cradled always by the rocking hand of the swell." "You
should add papa's description to your list of the charms of a West Indian
voyage," said Lucy, with a slight glance at Mr Lawrence, for, when a girl has
been proposed to by a man and has refused him, and when she is perfectly well
aware that his passion remains as great for her as ever it was, she will be coy,
shy, cautious, something unintelligible perhaps, in his presence. "Upon my word,
Acton," said the Admiral, "you have just put into words the fancies I have had
whilst I have been conversing with Miss Acton. The old spirit will speak in a
man, the old love will grow eloquent once again at the suggestion that quickens
it into bright memory: and whilst I have been talking to you, I have in
imagination paced the starboard side of the quarterdeck, which we will call the
weather side; this harbour, these wharves, the Old Town have disappeared, and I
am surrounded by a wide ocean in the heart of which this little ship is rushing,
streaming her wake like a comet's tail, bursting the surge in rainbow-like
arches for her progress, filling the air with the music of shroud and back-stay,
and lightening the heart with a sense of freedom which the sea alone can give,
and which used to visit me like a sense of gratitude or rejoicing as though
something had been given to me that was gracious, beautiful, and rare." Mr
Lawrence viewed his father with astonishment, Miss Lucy with a smile whose
beauty was radiant with applause, Miss Acton with an expression of awe, whilst
Captain Acton burst out: "Upon my word, Admiral, forgive me for saying so, but I
never could have believed such thinking so expressed was in your line of mind. I
believe St Vincent would be very pleased did he possess your powers of
delivery." "Oh come, come!" cried the Admiral, "don't make me feel more ashamed
of myself than I am. But, Miss Lucy, is not the sea a subject about which you
cannot think without being inspired with thoughts high above those which visit
you from other topics?" "When such a man as Nelson is in your mind." "Yes,
Nelson is the great sea-poem of the age," said Captain Acton, "and I find more
melody in the thunder of his guns than in the prettiest turns of the poetic
measure. Are you going home, sister?" "Yes, we have done all we came out to do.
Where is Mr Eagle? Mr Lawrence, you will not forget to give him the sulphur for
his poor feet?" "I will not, madam, and I trust that the application of it may
make him a little better humoured." "One might notice a man's ill-temper," said
the Admiral, "if he were over you; but when he is under you--there used to be a
saying in my day--it's in the power of an officer to ride down any man under
him." "I believe Mr Eagle is a very respectable man, though illiterate like most
of them in the lower walks of the Merchant Service," said Captain Acton. "This
sort of people come on board through the hawse pipe, but at a pinch their
knowledge which is uncommonly practical, is sometimes vastly useful. They are
acquainted with manoeuvres which would often put their betters to their trumps.
They know all about rigging, its straining point, have little tricks above the
average seamanship for heavy weather, are learned in the pumps and their gear,
and indeed know ships not only with the familiarity of a master-rigger, but of a
master builder. One of these men I believe is Eagle, and I think, sir, you will
find him all that I tell you he is, though like most of his class he is of a
somewhat sour and sullen nature, and quick to grumble. I'll go home with you,
sister. Admiral, can we give you a lift?" "No, I thank you, sir. I am to dine
to-day with Mr Perry. I have long promised to eat a cut of cold meat with him.
His cider is the best I know. His cider alone makes him worth dining with."
"Give Perry my kind regards," said Captain Acton. "And thank him," twittered
Miss Acton, "for the beautiful sermon he gave us last Sunday, and tell him I am
looking forward to such another next Sunday." This said, they all went over the
side, the Admiral taking great care of Miss Acton as she crossed the planks. Mr
Lawrence remained in the gangway. When on the wharf his father called to him.
"Where do you dine, Walter?" "At 'The Swan,' sir." "I have a few words to say to
my son," said the Admiral. "I will bid you good-bye here," and with the
ceremonious courtesy of that age, he took leave of Captain Acton and the ladies,
who proceeded to their carriage, where they were cordially welcomed by the
passionate barking of the pug and the terrier. Mr Lawrence's eye reposed upon
Lucy's figure whilst his father was bidding the party farewell, whilst she
walked away on Captain Acton's right, Aunt Caroline strutting and leaning with
some affectation on her crutch-cane on his left, the three much saluted by the
people who lingered on the wharf, as they went. The young fellow's eyes still
reposed upon the girl even as the Admiral came stumping across the planks
pounding them with his staff as he walked. "Well," said he, "I suppose you kept
your appointment this morning with Captain Acton." "Oh, certainly, and his
reception was all that I could have expected at his hands." "Are the terms
pretty satisfactory?" "Twelve pounds a month, and ten per cent. commission on
the freight." "On the freight?" "On the money earned by the carriage of cargo,
sir." "I understand," said the Admiral. "This should prove a very good offer--
very good terms. What will this ship carry?" Mr Lawrence reflected as though
mentally gauging depth of hold and breadth of beam, and answered, "I think when
flush she should hold six hundred tons." "Six hundred tons out and six hundred
home. That is twelve hundred. I don't know what freights are, but they must rule
high, and, kindly creature as he is, Acton is the man to know to what market to
drive his pigs. I think you have done very well; besides obtaining occupation
which may conduct you to something higher or at least better, you stand to clear
about a hundred pounds by this voyage----"

"The value of its wages, sir, will depend upon its length," interrupted Mr
Lawrence. "I know that," cried the Admiral. "But whatever the sum, it is good
money and honestly earned, made not as you could make it in this place, and
better a hundred pounds gained by toil which a man's conscience approves and
applauds, than one hundred thousand fetched from the pockets of others by the
crime of gambling." He looked steadily at his son whose eyes were fixed upon the
carriage which the Actons were at that moment entering. "Did you observe Mr
Greyquill," continued the Admiral, "on the wharf behind a little crowd of people
viewing the ship under his lifted hand? He was there when you came on deck." "I
saw him." "What brings that old man here peering and mopping and mowing? Has he
heard of your appointment? I wish he may not be hatching some scheme, planning
some design to end this, your fortunate command, by arresting you unless you pay
him up in full." "I don't know what his intentions are," said Mr Lawrence with
some blood colouring his face. "I saw the old rascal plain enough, but avoided
his eye as I feared he might have the insolence to step aboard and address me in
the presence of Captain Acton and the ladies, and yourself, sir. But if he has
heard of my appointment I cannot conceive that he meditates my arrest as an
alternative to my paying him in full, which he knows I cannot do. I should tell
him that by waiting he will receive payment by instalments. This I can manage
now that I have money coming to me. Will he stop his sole chance of receiving
back his loan by clapping me into gaol?" "Why, perhaps not," answered the
Admiral. "He would be a fool as well as a villain for so doing. Take an
opportunity of putting the matter to him as you put it to me. I do not want to
see your chance obstructed nor Captain Acton's kindness embarrassed by any
action on the part of old Greyquill. And I beg, sir," continued the old officer
speaking slowly and solemnly, "that during the rest of your time ashore you will
behave with that discretion which can alone secure you the continuance of
Captain Acton's goodwill. You are going to dine at 'The Swan'? I am sure you
will understand what must signify a report that you were not master of yourself,
for," continued the old Admiral with emphasis, "it is idle to believe that the
best natured man in the world will confide his property and the care of valuable
lives to the custody of a man who is not fit to take charge of himself." "You
may trust me," said Mr Lawrence, making Sir William so low a bow that it might
have been thought that they were strangers, and had met on an affair of
ceremony. The young man watched his father roll away towards the steps which
conducted him on to the bridge. His face was sunk in thought, a peculiar gloom
was in the expression of it. His beauty even in repose always had something of
sternness in it: now as he watched his father's diminishing figure his mouth
gradually put on an air of bitter hardness, and a frown gave severity and even
the light of anger to his eyes. He was lingering on board until the hour when
the ordinary at "The Swan" was served, and whilst he stood looking over the rail
near the gangway, so profoundly self-abstracted that his eyes, turning idly,
seemed without speculation, Mr Eagle came across the planks. He limped a little,
and the expression of his face was uncommonly acid with pain and the nature of
the man. "Oh," said Mr Lawrence, waking up, "here is a packet left by Miss Acton
for you for your feet." He handed him the sulphur. "I am much obliged I am
sure," said Eagle. He put it to his nose. "I have tried it again and again," he
said, "and it ain't of no more use than if you was to rub in snuff. But she's a
kindly lady to remember me," said he, putting the packet into his pocket. "And I
hope, sir, as when you meet her you'll present her with my humble
acknowledgments." Mr Lawrence gave him a nod and then turned his head away, not
desirous of further converse with a man he regarded as inferior to a boatswain's
mate or master-at-arms upon a man-of-war. Eagle was on board to see to the
arrival of cargo which came into Old Harbour very leisurely in waggon-loads at a
time. The _Minorca_ was now receiving commodities for the passage out, but she
did not sail till the 3rd of May, and was not yet more than half full up. Mr
Lawrence looked at the clock which was affixed to the house at the end of the
wharf in which Captain Acton had his offices, and was about to leave the ship to
make his way to "The Swan," when a man who had been standing a few moments on
the quay side at the foot of the gangway boards, stepped across and saluted him.
Mr Lawrence exclaimed: "Oh, it's you! What do you want?" The man was almost a
caricature owing to malformation and other deformities. His red hair flamed; he
was hunched, his arms were as long as a baboon's and seemed designed for
climbing. His legs were arched and at the same time crooked at the knees, so
that he appeared to be stooping whether he walked or stood, and to complete the
suggestion of his origin he had a trick of scratching himself like a monkey. He
was about twenty-five years of age. Whose son he was he could not have told. He
preeminently belonged to the parish. Lawrence had got to know of his existence
by one day sauntering into the justice's court. Among the prisoners charged with
various misdemeanours was this man, who had no other name than Paul. He was
accused of having taken a vegetable, a cabbage or a turnip, from a field which
lay invitingly open, and the punishment inflicted was a fine or a term of
imprisonment. Mr Lawrence, struck by the extraordinary appearance of the man, or
witnessing a very great hardship in a pauper having to pay for so mean a thing
as a turnip by a considerable term of incarceration, put his hand in his pocket
with a sailor's liberality, and finding the money that was wanted, handed the
amount to an official of the court, and the man went free. The man waited
outside for Mr Lawrence. When he appeared he seized his hand, and fell upon his
crooked knees and kissed and slobbered his hand, and blubbered, with tears
trickling down his face, "that so help him his good God, come what might he
would do anything, no matter what, to serve his honour, he would die for his
honour; let his honour command him to jump into the river then and there and
drown himself, he'd do it if only to please him." His gestures whilst on his
knees, his extraordinary grimaces, the strange, wild terms in which he expressed
his pathetic gratitude for this condescension of a gentleman in taking notice
of, and rescuing from gaol a poor, pitiful vagabond, a child of the parish, a no
man's son, nor woman's either, a creature who lived he could not tell how,
sometimes by stealing a raw vegetable, sometimes by running an errand, sometimes
by the bounty of a tradesman who might fling him a crust, or of some drunken
fisherman who might toss him a shilling to sing him a song and dance as he sang,
a performance so hideously uncouth that Hogarth would have immortalised it could
he have witnessed it; his gratitude, in short, was so diverting, at the same
time moving in its appeal to pity, that Mr Lawrence could scarcely forbear a
laugh, and indeed did laugh when he got rid of the fellow and walked away. "I
understand that your honour's got command of this ship," answered Paul. "Well!"
exclaimed Mr Lawrence, eyeing him with that sort of regard with which one views
some hairy, human-like importation of the likeness of a man, and perhaps better
looking than some men, from an Indian or South American forest. "If your honour
hasn't shipped a steward, sir, I should be mighty glad if you'd take me. I could
sail round the world with you, sir. I'd love to be your shadder. Wherever your
honour goes, I'd like to be there." The strange face of the fellow with its red
eyebrows and red eyelashes, and red fluff upon his upper lip, and compressed
nose, ape-like or sheep-like, so that the nostrils seemed to be squeezed out of
position, and to gape from either side, quivered with feeling, with intensity,
and passion of desire. Mr Lawrence, with a ridiculing smile, said: "What do you
know about waiting on people in the cabins of ships?" "What I did should be to
your honour's satisfaction. I could lay a cloth and set a dish, and I'd learn in
as many hours as much as it would take others days." "But you were never at sea.
You'll be sick in your hammock, and I shall be wanting some one to wait upon
me." "Oh yes, your honour, I've been to sea," answered Paul with prodigious
earnestness. "I've been in smacks. I've knocked about all my life in boats
belonging to this Harbour. Sick! No fear, your honour. I'll sarve you for
nothing." Mr Lawrence looked at the red-headed, monkey-faced, pleading creature,
not, in that look designing, it was manifest, to give him the berth; but all on
a sudden his face slightly changed, an idea seemed to flash up in him and work
in his countenance, just as a light kindled suddenly within a mask made of
something transparent might, by the intention of the artist, change its look.
"What's your name again?" he said. "Paul, your honour," answered the fellow,
brightening instinctively with the face Mr Lawrence now viewed him with. "No
other name?--no matter; Paul will do very well for the books." He mused a little
with his eyes fastened upon the ship's decks. For a space he was deeply sunk in
thought. Presently his eyes rose to the figure before him, and he examined him
as curiously as though he had never before seen him. "Be here," said he, "on
Saturday next. It may be that I'll give you the berth. No more words. Off with
you!" The fellow made a dash with his hand at a red forelock, and in his crooked
gait went through the gangway and walked away up to the wharf, just as Mr Eagle
rose out of the main-hatch. Mr Lawrence walked to "The Swan." The entrance was
under a covered way into which the stage coach drove for baiting. Mr Lawrence
walked into the bar and observed a letter fixed in a frame of red tape stretched
across a board covered with green baize. As he was in the habit of receiving
letters at this house he looked at this one and saw that it was addressed to
him. He pulled it out of its mesh of tape, and addressing a middle-aged, comely
woman who sat in the window in the bar where she supplied lookers-in with pots
of frothing beer, or directed them to such parts of the house as they desired to
visit, he asked when that letter had been left, and was answered that the letter
carrier had brought it in about two hours before. He seemed to know the
handwriting on the envelope, and there was a frown upon his face as he broke the
big seal. He read it where he stood. It was a letter from a Captain Rousby
informing him that he owed him the sum of one hundred guineas, that this money
as a debt of honour had been payable immediately on proof of the loss of the
wager, but that so far from having received it, Captain Rousby had been waiting
for nine months without obtaining further satisfaction than the now wearisome
and well-worn excuse that Mr Lawrence could not immediately pay, that he was
expecting to obtain employment in the course of the month which would enable him
to discharge this debt with interest if Captain Rousby thought proper. The
Captain informed Mr Lawrence that last week Mrs Rousby had presented him with
twins, a catastrophe which greatly increased his expenses at a time when he was
without employment, and when money was never more urgently needed. Captain
Rousby then went on to inform Mr Lawrence that if a portion of this debt, say
twenty-five guineas, was not sent to him by the first of June, it would be his
unpleasant duty to visit Old Harbour Town, call upon Sir William Lawrence and
state the facts of the case to him as an officer and a gentleman. If he could
obtain no satisfaction from the Admiral, it would be his painful duty--a duty
that must be singularly distasteful to a man who had been a messmate and
shipmate of Mr Lawrence--to take such steps as his lawyer might advise. When Mr
Lawrence had read this letter through, he was in the act of crushing it by one
of those spasmodic motions of the hand which accompany a sudden violent gust of
wrath, he met the eyes of the female in the bar fixed upon him; in her gloomy
beer-flavoured recess, faintly luminous with hanging rows of highly-polished
drinking pots, and a sideboard well within laden with metal vessels for drinking
from and for holding drink, the landlady of "The Swan," for such was this
decoration of the bar, had manifestly been studying his face whilst he read. She
knew him very well, and she was also well acquainted with his habits. In a
breath on meeting her eyes he changed his resolution, and folded up the letter
into its original creases, giving her a smile which did not seem in the least
degree forced, and saying to her in his pleasantest manner, "Is the ordinary
on?" and receiving her answer after she had darted a look at an invisible clock
in her room, "In another three minutes, sir," he passed on and went upstairs.
The ordinary was held in a long room next to the room in which the seafaring men
congregated. As a meal it was renowned in the district. Coarse it might have
been called, coarse and plentiful, but it was of that sort of coarseness which
makes very good eating. Mr Short, the landlord, was a liberal caterer, and he
excelled in choice of rounds of beef, in joints of venison, in legs of pork and
mutton, in fine dishes of veal; and this ordinary was always graced with a
precedent dish of fish, which was invariably fresh from the sea, and whether
turbot, cod, bake, soles, and many flat fish which the smacks brought with them
into Old Harbour, were delicious in freshness and flavour. Short's cheeses, too,
were always very fine, dry, crumbly, flakey, nutty, and without being too strong
they flavoured the bread or the biscuit with what the palate knew to be real
cheese. His cellars held a very fine old port, but it was seldom asked for
unless some person of distinction and importance occupied a seat at that teeming
and appetising board. Short brewed his own beer, and a delicate amber draught it
was; there was no better beer brewed in England. This ordinary was held every
day, for there were always people passing through Old Harbour Town, and then Old
Harbour Town itself was liberal with its own supply of guests, pilots, smack-
owners and others who found it cheaper and much more convenient to get a cut at
"The Swan," than to sit down to an ill-killed and ill-cooked joint, or a fried
chop or steak in their own homes. The ordinary was frequently graced by the
presence of distinguished people. A lord would occasionally take a chair;
several neighbouring squires were regular frequenters when business brought them
into those parts. Captain Acton had often made a meal at that table, and so had
Sir William. Mr Short occupied the head of the table, and the oldest frequenter
who happened to be present the foot. Mr Short took his seat when Mr Lawrence sat
down, and all the people who had come to eat were then assembled. In a picture
they would figure as a homely old English lot: men in bottle-green coats, in red
coats, in purple waistcoats, in plain pilot cloth, here and there a dandy built
up in the latest style, here and there an old fogey who stuck to the fashion of
the last century and figured in a little tye wig, a frill very fit for the
harbouring of snuff, a cut-away coat with immense pockets, such as Boswell might
have been found drunk in, in Edinburgh, and shoes with buckles. Mr Short said
grace, and prayed for the King and Royal Family, and for the utter ruin and
confusion of the French, Spanish, and all our enemies. In two or three places
the walls were adorned by maps, with which no navigator of this age would dare
to risk his life fifty miles out of sight of land. A spinet stood in a corner;
it was sometimes customary when the ordinary was ended and the sentiments had
been brought to a conclusion for any one who could perform, to sit down to this
spinet and accompany any gentleman who was good enough to oblige. But it was
always understood that the song must carry a chorus which everybody present knew
so that everybody present might join in it, hence the same old melodies were
very often heard in that long room with the low ceiling, and its clock whose
voice was audible all over the house at night. Mr Lawrence was a quality guest,
and being a frequenter, had a place of his own, which was on the left hand of
the landlord; thus he got the fish of his choice, the cut of meat he liked best,
the best draught of ale the house could supply, and this ordinary was too useful
to him to allow him to be in debt to it. Short was a large fat man with a pink
face, merry little drunken eyes almost buried out of sight in hairy eyebrows and
eyelashes; his pear-shaped nose was so purple at the end that it might have been
supposed he had just been fighting his way through a hedge full of nettles. He
treated his patrons as guests, and of those he knew, would ask familiarly after
their relations, and how their businesses went and the like. Mr Lawrence sat
very silent, yet ate with appetite because what was put before him he relished,
but it was observed that he limited himself to one tankard of beer. When the
ordinary was ended, pipes were put upon the table, and jars of tobacco, and then
Mr Short, without rising, exclaimed:

"Gentlemen! before I give you a sentiment I shall be pleased if you will allow
me to propose a toast. It was only known to me this morning that my highly
respectable friend on the left, Mr Lawrence, the son of that distinguished
officer, Rear-Admiral Sir William Lawrence, has received, through his friend
Captain Acton of His Majesty's Navy, the command of that beautiful barque, the
_Minorca_. I am sure that there is ne'er a gent here who takes an interest in
our Old Harbour, and who has the honour of the acquaintance of Captain Acton and
Mr Lawrence, but will feel proud and delighted that that beautiful ship, the
_Minorca_, which we all claim now as belonging to our town, will be commanded by
as fine an officer as ever walked His Majesty's quarterdeck. Gentlemen all, I
give you the health of Captain Acton, Mr Lawrence, and the _Minorca_, and may
prosperity attend the beautiful ship, and may she return home to gladden the
eyes of all well-wishers of our grand old town by loading our store-houses with
more foreign produce." Mr Lawrence looked startled when this toast was begun;
but he composed his face as Short proceeded, and when everybody was extending
his glass to him and wishing him all the good-luck that Short desired, he was
receiving the general salutation with a composed smile and an air of courteous
appreciation. One sat at the table who peered at him hard when Mr Short began.
This was a middle-aged man in a brown wig. He was one of the two clerks kept by
Mr Greyquill, and regularly dined at "The Swan's" ordinary, a repast which had
never once been decorated by the presence of Mr Greyquill, who, living in rooms
over his offices, chose to eat for his breakfast a little fish which he bought
from a man with a barrow with whom he haggled, and for his dinner a cutlet or a
piece of steak, just enough for one, with vegetables, and for supper whatever
might have been left from breakfast or dinner, and if nothing was left, then a
piece of "hearty bread and cheese," as he would term it, and a glass of beer.
The man with the brown wig peered with his head on one side at Mr Lawrence, as
though Mr Short's toast conveyed a piece of news to him. When the landlord had
made an end, and the healths named had been pledged, Mr Short, filling a pipe
and inviting those of his friends who were smokers to follow his example, asked
old Mr Sturgeon, a well-known smack owner, for a sentiment, who in a feeble
voice, and eyes from which the light of being had almost been extinguished by
time, broke out in a sort of hiccough: "As we ascend the hill of life may we
never meet a friend." This was enough for Mr Lawrence, who perfectly understood
that all the sentiments which were likely to be delivered at that table he had
heard over and over again. He rose, made a bow to the landlord and the company,
and walked from the room to the adjacent room, which was made a reading-room of
by the pilots, smacksmen, and others, and sitting down at the long table, took a
sheet of some paper which was there for the accommodation of the frequenters,
and after thinking deeply, undisturbed by the sound of singing which started
next door, he began to write in pencil, obviously making a draft of a
communication he proposed to copy there, or more probably elsewhere. Certainly
what he wrote about did not refer to the letter he had received on his arrival
at "The Swan." This may be assumed, as he never referred to that letter which
lay in his pocket. He wrote leisurely and with absorption, never heeding the
noise next door, and when he was done he carefully read through what he had
written, and with his handsome face stern with the quality of resolution and the
temper which enters into great or violent undertakings as their impulse or
seminal principle, he pocketed the letter, and left the room by another door.
CHAPTER VI

THE LETTER

Mr Greyquill's office was in High Street. He used two rooms for his professional
affairs, and the rest of the house, which was a small one, he lived in. He was
an attorney, and a flourishing one: so mean that his name had passed into a
proverb, but honourable in his dishonourable doings, so that though every man
agreed that Greyquill was a scoundrel, all held that he kept well within the
lines of his villainy, and that he was unimpeachable outside the prescribed and
understood rules of his roguery. Two mornings following the day on which Mr
Short had proposed Mr Lawrence's health, old Mr Greyquill rose from his chair at
his office table, and said to his clerk in the brown wig, who sat within eyeshot
at another table in the adjacent room, that he was going to collect his rents at
Greyquill's Buildings, and that he would not be back before half-past twelve. He
never looked so white as he did this morning. His white hair seemed to rest like
a cloud upon his head and shoulders. His eyebrows bore so strong a resemblance
to white mice that no one could have overlooked the similitude, particularly as
each eyebrow flourished over the bridge of the nose a few little dark hairs
which resembled tails. His waistcoat was white, not having come from the wash
above three days, and his stockings were white. He left his house and walked
down the road which led to the bridge, but instead of crossing the bridge he
descended a short flight of steps abreast of the flight that led to the wharves.
These steps conducted the passenger to the river-side walk that went up the
banks of the stream, and a very sweet walk it was this morning. The bright river
trembled in prisms and gems under the pleasant breathing of the wind, which was
aromatic with the odours it culled in its flight over the country, the birds
sang gaily with here and there a deep flute-like note. It was a morning lovely
and delightful with the virginal spirit of spring, when all creation seems new,
when no note in the trees, no sweetness in the air, no bloom or flash of white
on the bough, no timid wayside flower that seems to have sprung into being since
yester eve and glances at you coyly from its little wayside bower, but delights
the senses as a beautiful surprise, as a something remembered but never so
fresh, so appealing. A bend of the river's path shut out the view of Old Harbour
Town and the Harbour, and just when Mr Greyquill reached this turn, he saw Mr
Lawrence coming along the road, having manifestly gained it by a little bridge,
some distance beyond which was another way, but rather roundabout, of getting to
Old Harbour from Sir William Lawrence's cottage. Mr Lawrence looked very well;
his colour was fresh, his eyes carried the light which nature intended them to
take, but which his hand was perpetually seeking to extinguish by draughts of
strong liquors. He had been extremely temperate for three days, and his
resolution was producing its fruits in his general appearance. It is indeed
surprising how short is the period asked for by Nature even from men who live
harder and drink harder than Mr Lawrence, to restore to them as much of their
healthy old good looks as in some cases makes them almost irrecognisable. "Good
morning, Mr Lawrence," said Mr Greyquill, making the gentleman a low bow. "I may
take it that you're going to the ship which I am pleased to hear Captain Acton
has given you the command of." "You are very kind, sir, to take an interest in
my affairs," answered Mr Lawrence with slight sarcasm. "I think I have some
reason, Mr Lawrence," answered Mr Greyquill, drooping his head to one side, and
looking at the other with a confidential and familiar expression which was
scarcely a smile, but which teased the hot blood of Mr Lawrence as though the
look masked an insult. Mr Lawrence viewed him in silence. "I may trust, at all
events," continued the money-lender, "now that you are in receipt of money--and
if the terms have been correctly named to me they speak very highly in favour of
Captain Acton's generosity--that you will give my debt your immediate attention,
and that if you cannot pay all, you will pay as much as I have a right to expect
from the amount you receive." "You shall be paid, sir," said Mr Lawrence. "It
would be convenient to me if you would fix a day for the first payment if you
cannot pay the whole," said Mr Greyquill. "I shall not be able to pay you
anything this side my first command of the _Minorca_. If I hand you the sum of
twenty-five guineas after my return, that is, when I am paid off by Captain
Acton, I believe you will not have much reason to complain, sir." Mr Greyquill
shrugged his shoulders. "Twenty-five guineas is a very small proportion of three
hundred pounds," he exclaimed. "It is not three hundred pounds, sir," answered
Mr Lawrence, with the countenance of a man who is resolved in his intention, but
desires to speak with prudence and good humour. "But from my point of view it is
three hundred pounds," cried Mr Greyquill. "What is the good of money without
interest? I enter in my books the interest on my money as a part of my money,
and if you tell me I am not to speak of my interest when I speak of what is due
to me, what is my situation? How am I to live? The profit the butcher makes by
the sale of his carcasses is the interest upon his outlay; deprive him of that
and he will not sell you meat, because he could not afford to do so." "The
butcher does not charge at your rate, Mr Greyquill," said Mr Lawrence with a
faint smile. "I will not declare what the butcher charges!" cried Mr Greyquill,
a little warmly for so sleek a man. "But take my word, the British tradesman,
whether tinker, tailor, butcher, baker, and we'll throw in grocer as we do not
value rhymes, charges at rates which if reduced from profit to interest and
called by that aggressive term discount, would represent every shopkeeper in the
nation as big a scoundrel as the most voracious of your money-lenders, sir." He
bowed as though to the applause of an audience, and looked the better pleased
with Mr Lawrence for having heard him. "Well, Mr Greyquill, twenty-five guineas
when I'm paid off on my return home. I can say no more, and can promise no
more." "You speak like a gentleman to me in this matter, which you do not often
do when I refer to it, nor your father neither----"

"Sir William Lawrence has nothing to do with my affairs." "Still, he might
recognise my claim and your debt, and treat me perhaps with the commiseration
with which he would pity himself if he lost three hundred pounds." "You have not
lost it, Mr Greyquill." "No, sir, and from my conversation with you this morning
I am satisfied I shall receive every penny. I wish you a truly prosperous voyage
and a safe return home, and that the Frenchman won't be the means of dishing
more hopes than your own." He made another of his bows, and Mr Lawrence saluting
him with a slight smile and a lifted hat, passed on. Just at the bend of the
road not ten paces from where they had been standing, Mr Lawrence drew forth his
pocket-handkerchief to blow his nose, and with it there came out of his pocket
and fell upon the road unobserved by him, a large sheet of paper folded into
four. Mr Lawrence blew his nose and went round the corner, and the paper would
have been out of sight had he looked behind. Old Greyquill, trudging on busy in
thought with Mr Lawrence's debt, was moved by some idea of the man to look
behind him. Mr Lawrence had disappeared. Quite discernible from where Greyquill
stood was the sheet of paper Lawrence had let fall. Old Greyquill stopped,
peered, reflected that it might be a letter that he himself had unconsciously
been toying with and had dropped, or that in some other way had let fall from
his pocket. He retraced the few steps that lay between and picked it up, and
proceeded with it in one hand, whilst with the other he fumbled for his
spectacle-case. He immediately saw that it was a sheet of paper about the size
of foolscap, but somewhat squarer, of a bluish tint; it was provided free of
cost to the frequenters of the sailors' reading-room at "The Swan." He well knew
the paper, for many a letter written upon it had he received. It was of a
convenient size for those who used it, as first of all it was ruled on one side,
which enabled a man to steer a straight course with his pen. The page was
likewise so large as to enable a man to write big, and few who used it could
write small. It also supplied plenty of space for erasures, whether of
expression or spelling, and this was useful. When folded into four and sealed or
wafered, the sheet became a letter which needed but the address to qualify it
for the post. In the case of the sheet Mr Greyquill held, it had been folded to
resemble a letter, but it had not been made one; it bore no address, and the
communication started at once without the prefatorial "Dear sir," or the like,
and it closed without signature or initials. But Mr Greyquill immediately saw
that the handwriting in pencil was Mr Lawrence's, and that the document must
have fallen from that gentleman's pocket just now when they parted. We have seen
that the frame which bounded Mr Greyquill's portrait of honour was large. Most
men recognising the handwriting would have denied themselves the right of
reading this letter, because they had found it lying in a public roadway, for
two reasons: the handwriting was known to them, and the recent presence of the
writer where that letter was found would have identified it as its owner's
business in no wise to be intruded on by a man of honour. But this sort of
argument did not fall within the frame of Mr Greyquill's picture of integrity.
It was a letter lying ready for anybody's hand in a public way; next, it was not
addressed; third, it was not signed; and fourth, though the contents were
apparently in Mr Lawrence's handwriting, yet some people did write, as Greyquill
knew, so wonderfully alike that there was no reason to conclude without strong
internal evidence that the letter Mr Greyquill held was written by Mr Lawrence.
Whatever else it was, it was certainly a draft roughly pencilled of a letter
that had been copied in ink and no doubt despatched. Here and there was an
erasure in ink, which proved that it had been copied in ink and corrected in
certain places by the pen that was transcribing it. He had not proceeded far
when his eyebrows, which, as we have heard, inimitably expressed the aspect of
two white mice, arched their backs to an extraordinary degree as though in
imitation of a cat when enraged; his mouth took on the posture of a whistle;
with his eyes rooted to the sheet he stopped and scratched his head until he
nearly tumbled his hat into the road. Just then certain large white-bosomed
April clouds which had been leisurely sailing up from over the sea began to
discharge some rain, and one shower was so smart that Greyquill took refuge in a
small wayside barn, where, until the rain ceased he had the opportunity of
reading the letter several times. His astonishment was unaffected and amazing;
with the habit of senility he kept on muttering to himself aloud whilst he
perused and re-perused the letter. "Is it possible! Is this the officer and the
gentleman! Could an egg so full of criminal matter find any black fowl willing
to hatch it in so pleasing a nest! And I am called an old scamp because I part
with my honestly earned money for a consideration which is trifling in
comparison with the benefit I confer, the help that I am to the man in need.
This will require thought. I shall need to think pretty considerably before I
decide. Meanwhile, Mr Lawrence, I wish you a prosperous voyage, and I wonder
what you will do when you find out that you have mislaid this letter, a copy of
which to somebody or other, as pretty a scoundrel as yourself no doubt, you have
unquestionably by this time posted?" Meanwhile, Mr Lawrence walked towards his
ship. He should have been on the whole well satisfied with his meeting with Mr
Greyquill. Perhaps the profound indifference which in reality possessed him as
to the old scrivener's willingness to accept twenty-five guineas, or, in short,
anything as an instalment, was because he had long felt that the old man never
durst take extreme action. Greyquill knew that Mr Lawrence was very popular in
his own particular way in Old Harbour Town and the neighbourhood. He drank and
treated, and in a high degree possessed the liberality of the sailor. The
townspeople were proud of him, not only because he was a handsome and finely
built man, but because he had shone in many deeds of gallantry whilst in the
Navy, and everybody was agreed that when Mr Lawrence was court-martialled the
Service lost as fine and plucky a seaman as was ever afloat, and one to be
recalled to his duties with apologies and without delay. Admiral Sir William
Lawrence was also highly respected, and people spoke with pride of his living in
their neighbourhood. It was likewise well known that Mr Lawrence was a friend of
the Actons, and in a small town of small gossips the idea if not the
circumstance of Mr Lawrence having offered for the hand of the beautiful Miss
Acton was not likely to be neglected or overlooked, and to do the gossips
justice, they imputed the rejection of the handsome and dashing young Naval
officer to his loose habits. Mr Lawrence well judged that if Greyquill locked
him up for debt Old Harbour Town would rise against him. His windows would
certainly be broken, his person might go in danger, for there was more than one
who had suffered at the hands of Greyquill who would be grateful for any sort of
excuse to administer a sound cudgelling to the old man, and take his chance of
the law, fortified by the conviction that if it came to a fine the amount would
be subscribed several times over. Mr Lawrence's business on board the _Minorca_
did not keep him long. He was primarily there to see to the arrangements of his
own cabin, and also of another cabin aft which it was his design to convert into
a sick-bay. This end was chiefly accomplished in this cabin by the rough
construction of a couple of bunks. Just before he left the ship, the young
fellow Paul, whom he had told to come down on Saturday, stepped from the fore
part of the ship where he had been watching two or three men caulking, and gave
Mr Lawrence his usual salute of a pluck at a forelock and a scrape of a hinder
foot. "Yes," said Mr Lawrence, running his eyes over him, "the articles are
opened at Mr Acton's offices. Go and tell the manager--but here----" He pulled
out a card upon whose face was some printed address, and with a pencil struck
out the address, and wrote to the effect that the bearer called Paul had been
engaged by Mr Lawrence as his cabin servant. These lines he initialed, and
giving the card to the youth, bade him present it at the offices before one
o'clock, or he would find them closed. "Have you no better clothes than what you
wear?" he said. "No, sir." "You may give an order for a suit of decent apparel
fit to wait at table with, for I want you to understand that your duties may
bring you to wait upon ladies and gentlemen, though you know nothing about that.
Do you hear?" "Ay, your honour," answered the fellow with a grin decidedly above
a clown's intelligence. "You can pay for the clothes on your return, or by
drawing an advance which Mr Acton's manager will let you have. Do you know Miss
Acton?" "The lady that lives at Old Harbour House along with Capt'n Acton?"
answered Paul. "I mean Captain Acton's daughter." "I should think I do, sir,"
answered Paul, grinning. "You know her well enough, for example," said Mr
Lawrence, critically surveying him as though he took counsel within himself
whilst he talked, "that if I gave you a letter for her and for none other"--he
frowned, and with some passion emphasised _none other_--"you are not likely to
mistake, you are not likely to give it to another." "I couldn't mistake, your
honour. I know the lady as I know you, and if so be as I did mistake, then I
hope your honour would blow my brains out, for I shouldn't leave your side till
your honour did." Mr Lawrence, with a nod and an expression of face that was
scarcely a smile, quitted the ship, and on the wharf found Mr Eagle, who had as
a matter of fact for a minute or two been watching him. "That young fellow came
aboard not long ago," said the mate, "and I asked him his business. He replied
that he was to be cabin servant by your choosing. I was nigh telling him he was
a liar, for I couldn't suppose that the likes of him and his rags would suit a
gent as has sarved the King, and been waited upon, as I understand they do in
the Sarvice, by Marines." Lawrence smiled, and answered: "The Marines may not be
all you think them, Mr Eagle, though they are a noble fighting corps. I took a
pity upon that young fellow. I once helped him out of a difficulty, and his
gratitude rose to the height of a dog's, which, as you know, is very superior to
man's. His ugliness interests me as the sort of beauty you find in the toad or
the snake or other things which make ladies scream. He can bring dishes aft as
well as another, and will look a very pretty young man in a new suit of clothes.
I may not be down to the ship again till Monday. Good morning, sir." He walked
away, leaving Mr Eagle staring apace, and as he was going over the side, Paul,
who was coming down, received a very acid, watchman-like look from the mate. Mr
Lawrence pursued the same road home by which he had gained Old Harbour. In all
probability had Mr Greyquill not looked back, the young gentleman would have
found his letter where he had unconsciously dropped it. That side of the bridge
--the up-river water path--was much unfrequented, save on a Sunday, when lovers
walked along it, and now and again a little family dressed in their best. It was
many chances to one that the two or three who had passed along that path since
Mr Lawrence and Mr Greyquill had stood in conversation upon it, would have
picked up the letter or even taken notice of it, so very remote from their ideas
of things worth stopping for and examining on the highway was a folded sheet of
paper. Mr Lawrence walked on. He thought of old Greyquill when he passed the
place where he had stopped to talk. He crossed the quaint old bridge duplicated
in the river, which streamed with becalmed surface up here and mirrored with the
precision of a looking-glass the hues and shapes of every bird that swept the
glassy surface for an insect, and gaining a rich lane formed by seven or eight
hundred years of growth, for a monastery had stood here and a knight had had his
manor where now the land was without relic of stone or brick; but the vegetation
left by these people flourished, and though not above half a mile in length that
lane formed one of the most glorious, soothing, enfolding, impulse-creating
walks in all that country-side which abounded in little paradisaical reaches of
a like kind; I say Mr Lawrence crossed the bridge, and emerging from the lane
struck the high-road, and presently gained his father's cottage. Even in three
days the weather had worked a miracle in the increase of the beauty of the
orchards in which the Admiral sat pipe in mouth, tankard at elbow, embowered; a
sort of figure who when at his window would have greatly puzzled the Knight of
Spenser's _Faerie Queene_; for what should such a shape secretly ambushed in a
spot fit only for the dancing tread of the fairy, or the gaping stare of the
ogre who tries to see how the land lies by peering through two apple boughs,
what should such a shape signify, briefly arresting the clouds of smoke which
rose from his lips by vain efforts to extinguish by copious draughts from his
tankard the magical fires that blazed in its interior? Whether the Knight would
have tilted at the figure or pricked his horse into headlong flight is a
conjecture that must be left to those who have read the poem and know the man.
The Admiral just now happened to be at dinner. A shoulder of mutton and onion
sauce with potatoes roasted with the shoulder and such other vegetables as the
season yielded was a dish fit to set before a king, and the monarch who turned
up his nose at such a dainty should be made to banquet on nothing but the fare
they give kings upon the stage. Indeed, Sir William would tell his friends he
knew for a fact that a shoulder of mutton was the favourite dish of His Royal
Highness Prince William. If it was objected that the joint yielded more bone
than meat he had his answer:

"Sir, I once said to a sailor who had obtained a berth ashore on sixteen
shillings a week, 'How do you manage to rear your family? How many are there of
you?' 'Why,' he answered, 'there's me and the old woman and four youngsters and
grandfather!' 'You never see meat, of course,' said I. 'Oh yes, we do,' he
answered. 'Meat!' I cried, 'on sixteen shillings a week and seven people to
support, four of them hungry youngsters!' 'Well,' he answered, 'I doos it in
this way. On Saturday I goes to the butcher and buys a shoulder o' mutton; on
Sunday we 'as it 'ot; on Monday we 'as it cold; on Toosday we 'ave what's left
of the cold; on Wednesday what's left of the cold we 'ave made into ishee-ashee;
on Thursday we makes what's left of the ishee-ashee into ashee-ishee; on Friday
we does without; and on Saturday I goes to the butcher and I buys another
shoulder of mutton.' Now," the Admiral would say with his face warm with
triumph, "name me any joint but a shoulder of mutton that will supply what kept
this family in meat, or the like of meat, from Sunday to Thursday?" The Admiral
made his son welcome with unusual warmth. "I never tasted a finer flavoured
piece of mutton. This jelly, too, lifts it to the dignity of a haunch. Those
spring cabbages are very tender. We do not eat nearly enough vegetables in this
country. What purifies the blood like a well-cooked spring cabbage that melts in
the mouth? I am in hopes that we shall get a very good show of potatoes. Are you
fresh from the ship?" He asked this question with much importance. Indeed,
during the last two days he had manifested great interest in all that concerned
the Merchant Service; had found out, for instance, and avowed the fact to
Captain Acton, that our Colonial Empire was founded by British Merchant seamen
who, in the employ of merchant adventurers, sailed into all parts of the globe
and established settlements, and often fought for the preservation if not for
the conquest of principalities over which the King's flag now waved. He also
pointed to the Honourable East India Company, and asked if our own or any Navy
were superior in their capacity and splendour to those ships, and whether our
Navy treated their officers with so much consideration, liberality, and prudent
foresight for each man's well-being. "Yes, I have come straight from the
_Minorca_." "Will you complete your lading by the date announced for your
sailing?" "I think so--I hope so. I am very well disposed towards that scheme I
have put into being--the construction of a sick-bay. Every ship should have a
sick-bay. You must agree with me, sir." "Wherever room can be found a sick-bay
is most important," answered the Admiral. "A man falls sick of small-pox. What
are you to do with him? You can't cure him, and you can't heave him overboard.
But because one falls ill it surely does not follow that the others should go
sick. Besides, we carry no surgeon, which was an additional incentive to my
suggesting a sick-bay to Captain Acton." "Oh, you have done well. Acton will
value your foresight. A sick-bay is a valuable detail in a ship's catalogue."
They talked of this and of other matters connected with the _Minorca_, and then
the Admiral went to the window to fill his pipe, and Mr Lawrence to his bedroom.
Some thought whilst eating with his father had occurred to him, and he felt in
his pocket for the copy of the letter which he had drawn out with his pocket-
handkerchief and which Mr Greyquill had got possession of. The handkerchief was
there, but the letter was not. When he had drawn out his handkerchief and felt
and found the lining of his pocket bare, when, in short, he completely
understood that the letter was not where it ought to be and where he knew it
should be, he turned as pale as the muslin curtain that partly veiled his
window, started with an abrupt swagger of motion as though he had been struck
violently behind, then with the energy of madness felt in all his pockets,
pulling out everything, meanwhile gazing around the room with eyes which seemed
on fire with their vigour of scrutiny and passion of fear. He endeavoured to
recollect himself that, by calming his terrors his memory might better serve
him. Urgent alarms often induce vain hopes which we should laugh at in the cool
mood. He believed he might have put that letter down in his bedroom, and
perfectly well knowing that he had not done so, and yet coaxed by a will-o'-the-
wisp hope, he ransacked the room as though he knew that in it was to be found a
gold piece of value whose discovery demanded a careful search only. What was
certain in his mind was that that letter was in his pocket when he walked that
morning to visit the _Minorca_. He remembered withdrawing it from his pocket,
but in what part of the walk he knew not, and re-perusing a portion of it to
refresh his memory. He tried to find comfort in the recollection that the letter
bore no address and no signature. But a thundercloud of horror came down on this
feeble streak of sunshine when he recalled the damning, incriminating contents
of that sheet which he had scrawled in pencil at "The Swan Inn." Whoever found
it would know that Mr Lawrence, and Mr Lawrence alone, had written it, and this,
too, irrespective of the handwriting. But here he found another little hope;
some squalls of wet, one very heavy, had set the kennels running shortly after
he had met Mr Greyquill, and if that letter had lain exposed to those three or
four deluges, it not only stood to be changed into a mere rag to the eye which
none would dream of even glancing at, but the writing must have been washed out
to a degree to render the sense of the letter unintelligible. He considered that
it was not above two or three hours when that letter was in his pocket, and that
it must have fallen somewhere betwixt his father's house and the _Minorca_ in
that time, for he had taken the same road to and fro. He reflected that that
road was but little used compared with the lane that led to the bridge where the
Actons' carriage had stopped. Understanding as a sailor the preciousness of
time, and conceiving that if the letter had by some strange mischance fallen
during his walk unobserved by him it might still rest in the spot where it had
dropped, insomuch that chance--for the fellow was a gambler at heart--might
concede him yet an hour, even two hours, in which to find it, he put on his hat
and marched out of the house, just saying to his father in the window that he
had an appointment and should miss it if he didn't hasten, and then stepped out,
casting as he went to right and left of his path eyes as piercingly scrutinising
as those which the madman darts when he seeks for the philosopher's stone. It is
needless, of course, to say that this searching walk was in vain. Whatever lay
white in his road he rushed at, and in his gizzard he cursed the vast number of
pieces of white paper which did somehow, as though distributed by innumerable
malicious Greyquills, attract his eye and retard his progress whilst he turned
them over. On his way this side the bridge he met an old man with a stick who
stopped in his lame walk to turn about any little heap his eye met. This old man
was attended by a dog, who smelt at what the man touched. "Have you seen a
letter," cried Mr Lawrence, "a broad piece of paper folded into four lying in
the road?" "Seen a what, your Anner?" "Where are you from?" "From Oozles." Mr
Lawrence repeated his first question. "I don't know what you mean," said the old
man. Mr Lawrence easily perceived that he didn't, and went on his way always
hunting with his eyes. Past the bridge he met another old man, a peasant with
silver hair, fit, dressed as he was, to walk upon any stage, and immediately
take part in any performance that included a peasant, a foster-child, and a
baron. This white hair gave him a reverend look, and his legs were strangely
bandaged round about, and his smock was a gown in which he could have preached a
sermon without exciting much suspicion as to the propriety of his dress. "Have
you seen a letter folded in four lying in the road?" shouted Mr Lawrence. "I'm a
little 'ard of 'earing," was the answer, and the picturesque old man put his
hand to his ear shellwise. Mr Lawrence went close to him and shouted. "Gard
bless your worship," said the old man in a sweet voice and a face beautiful with
the touches of the pencil of time upon a countenance originally open, gracious,
and good, "I ha'nt received a letter since her last from my poor old woife, and
that 'ull be twenty year ago, as I know by the laying of the foundation
stone----" Mr Lawrence broke away, and asked no more questions during the rest
of his walk. He saw no letter--nothing like it. He went on board the _Minorca_,
and seeing the mate at the main-hatch, asked in an off-hand way if a copy of a
letter had been found in the cabin, or any other part of the ship that morning.
"No, sir." And there was an end. With wrath in his heart, and cursing himself
again and again as a barnyard idiot fit for spread eagling only to carry such a
missive as that about with him when its miscarriage might prove his destruction,
might even now be working it, he stepped on to the wharf and came across Paul.
"Here!" said he. The youth approached. "I have lost a letter this morning," said
Mr Lawrence, explaining its form and size, "and it must have fallen from my
pocket somewhere between my father's house and this ship by way of Old Friar's
Road. If you can bring me that letter, or find out if it has been found, and if
so, by whom, before we sail, you shall have five pounds." "Simply a letter, your
honour, folded into four, without address, written in pencil, and not sealed?"
said the hunchback. "That's it!" exclaimed Mr Lawrence. "I'll do my best, sir,
and I'll work from dawn to night to find it, if it's to be found," was the
answer. CHAPTER VII

WHERE IS THE _MINORCA_? Mr Lawrence was for a few days very uneasy, but uneasy
is a mild term to express the state of a man's mind that starts at a look or an
exclamation, who fancies he is whispered about when two go past him talking, who
expects that every man who approaches him is going to speak to him about the
letter he has found, who imagines that every look that his father fastens upon
him is a prelude to a tremendous attack, who is willing to attribute the silence
of Captain Acton to the consideration of what steps in the face of such an
enormity should be taken by him against the son of his old friend Sir William
Lawrence. But Lucy Acton smiled and curtsied when he passed as usual. Old Miss
Acton was nervously polite in her way in her little chirrupy salutations.
Captain Acton was sometimes down at the ship, but had nothing to say about the
finding of a letter good or bad. Therefore after a few days of miserable
anxiety, during which he was remarkable for sobriety and for conspicuous regard
to his personal apparel, Mr Lawrence allowed the subject of the letter to slip
from his mind, satisfied that it had been reduced to pulp by the wet that had
fallen on the morning he lost it, or that it had been blown by some sportive
stroke of breeze into a corner, or a place where it was as much lost as if it
had dropped from his pocket into the ocean. As evidence that Mr Lawrence was
improving in general esteem, a brief conversation passed at Old Harbour House on
the fourth evening following the day of the loss of the letter. Captain Acton
had invited some friends to a rubber of whist. Sir William Lawrence was to be
amongst the guests, but as he lived near he was always late, explaining that the
fact of his living near excused him for taking plenty of time. Miss Lucy was
lovely in black muslin spangled with stars as the hair is dusted with gold.
Whilst they waited for Sir William the conversation turned upon his son. "How
greatly Mr Lawrence has improved, not indeed in manners, for he was always a
very fine gentleman, a very pretty gentleman, but in appearance, since you gave
him the command of the _Minorca_, Captain Acton." This was said by Lady Larmont,
the widow of an East India Director, who had achieved a reputation for
beneficence in the district without spending very much money. "What I much
admire in Mr Lawrence," said Miss Acton, "is his art in making a leg on entering
a room. His art in this way rises to a degree that is very unusual in men
nowadays, and I should think particularly in sea-faring men. His deportment
embraces the whole room. A man has a right to claim some sort of excellence who
can make a leg with skill." "'Tis a very old-fashioned term, madam," said
General Groves, "current in my time, but I question if much understood in this."
"It is most happily explained in the play of the _Man of the World_," said Miss
Acton. "I was never more pleased than by Sir Pertinax Macsycophant's reply to
his nephew's question how he had made his way in the world. Sir Pertinax
replies, 'By booing, sir.' A great deal of money and fine social positions have
been obtained by booing." "Hence the value of being able to make a leg in your
opinion, madam," said General Groves. "If trousers come in legs must go out,"
said Lucy. "What is the good of being able to make a leg with elegance if
fashion compels you to conceal the eloquent member?" "Well said, Miss, well
said!" cried Miss Proudfoot, who was a very good hand at whist and very
quarrelsome over the game. "I don't believe myself," said Miss Acton, "that
trousers ever will come in. Men whose calves are of a good shape and who have
long been in the habit of admiring and cherishing them, will be very reluctant
to conceal them in those ridiculous unmanly garments called trousers." "As the
majority of men strut this petty earth on drum-sticks," said General Groves. "I
expect that in a few years hence the universal male wear will be trousers." He
looked at his own legs. Time had somewhat shrunk them. "Mr Lawrence has
wonderfully improved of late," said Miss Proudfoot, with a glance at Lucy. "I
should say that when in the Navy he was one of the handsomest men in that
glorious Service." "All praise of him is gratifying to me for his father's
sake," said Captain Acton, whilst Lucy sat in silence with the shadow of a smile
lurking about her mouth, but invisible in her soft, dreamy half-veiled eyes.
"Would not you like to take a trip to the West Indies in your father's ship,
Miss?" said the Reverend James Prettyman, who had been headmaster at a
fashionable school for young gentlemen for many years past in a city about
twenty miles distant from Old Harbour Town. "Only the other day," replied Lucy,
"I told Mr Eagle, the mate of the vessel, that I could not imagine a pleasanter
trip than a voyage to the West Indies in the _Minorca_, but I stipulated that
the sea should be always smooth." "There it is!" said Miss Acton. "Give me a sea
as smooth as our lawn, and I will accompany you, my dear." Here Mr Pierpoint,
who held some influential position in connection with Old Harbour and was one of
Captain Acton's frequent guests at his whist tables, exclaimed: "The master of
the _Aurora_ told me, a day or two ago, that Mr Lawrence was attempting a
wonderful innovation in Merchant ships by the introduction of a sick-bay, after
the custom of men-o'-war." "It is true, sir," said Captain Acton, "and Mr
Lawrence loses nothing in my esteem by his idea and application of it. The
Merchants care nothing about their sick. 'A sick man is no man's dog,' I
believe, is one of their adages. Every vessel, supposing her to be above a
certain tonnage, whether flying a pennant or not, should have quarters properly
fitted for the reception and treatment of the sick among her crew." "I should
think so indeed, poor men!" exclaimed Miss Acton. "Suppose she carries no
surgeon?" said Mr Pierpoint. "Her master should be able to dispense physic with
the aid of a book," said Captain Acton. "Besides, the idea is to isolate the
sufferers from the rest of the crew in the black, wet, slush-lighted holes in
which Merchant sailors are forced to live in dozens, breathing the aroma of
their own breath, and creating such an atmosphere that the wicked halo of miasma
gleams a corpse-light round the flickering, stinking flame which hovers at the
mouth of the spout of the lamp." "What an awful picture!" cried Miss Proudfoot.
"Who'd be a sailor in the Merchant Service!" exclaimed General Groves. "It is a
noble life," said Lucy. "But it must be nobly lived." "Oh, madam, I thank you,"
exclaimed Mr Prettyman. "To live nobly you need pure air to begin with. But it
certainly does young Mr Lawrence great credit to be the first, as I apprehend
from this conversation, to introduce sick quarters for sick men on board
Merchant ships. I doubt even if the East India Company's vessels are fitted with
such humane receptacles." "And yet Nelson," said Lady Larmont, "liked the
Merchant Service so well that he was reluctant to leave it to enter the Royal
Navy. When he came from his West India voyage in a Merchant ship his favourite
saying was, 'Aft the more honour. Forward the better man.'" At this moment the
conversation was interrupted by the bustling entrance of Admiral Sir William
Lawrence, when of course the conversation was immediately changed from the
subject of his son and sick-bays to other matters. The _Minorca_ was announced
to sail on Tuesday, 3rd May, at half-past twelve o'clock. All her people without
exception lived in or near Old Harbour Town, consequently her crew was quickly
assembled. On the day previous they had bent all sails, rove all running
rigging, done all that was necessary to render a ship fit for the sea. She lay
between two other vessels, but was readily distinguished, not only by her rig
but by the height her masts towered above those of the others. It had been
arranged between Captain Acton and Admiral Lawrence that the latter should
breakfast at half-past nine with Captain Acton, who would then fill an hour with
transaction of certain business which he could deal with in his own house,
leaving the Admiral to amuse himself in the grounds with his pipe, and, if he
chose, a telescope; after which they would walk leisurely down to Old Harbour,
go on board the _Minorca_, and take a farewell view of the vessel with a God-
speed to her new commander. Lucy over-night had said she would join them, but
she did not appear at the breakfast table. Her father enquired for her, and was
told that she had left the house an hour earlier, or perhaps more, to take the
morning air and a walk with her dog. Neither Captain Acton nor Miss Acton
witnessed anything strange in the absence of Lucy from the breakfast table. She
was in the habit of taking these early walks, and would often turn into a
cottage whose inmates she well knew and breakfast with the occupants, enjoying
more the egg warm from the nest, the home-cured rasher of bacon, the pot of
home-made jam, the slice of brown bread and sweet butter, the bowl of new milk,
or the cup of tea which on such grand occasions would be introduced by her
humble friends, than the choicest dainties which her father's cook could send to
the breakfast table at Old Harbour House. "I expect you will find her down at
the wharves waiting for the ship to sail," said Miss Acton. "I met Mrs
Jellybottle yesterday. She told me that Farmer Jellybottle had received on the
previous day a large parcel of very substantial eatables from his brother, who
is head gardener at Lord Lancaster's. Lucy has possibly been tempted by the
display." "Here is her dog anyhow!" exclaimed the Admiral, as the little animal
marched into the room and stood near Lucy's chair with fore-foot lifted as
though she awaited her mistress. "How sits the wind?" enquired Captain Acton,
who being used to his daughter's occasional absence took no particular interest
in her failure that morning to attend the breakfast table. "I believe," said the
Admiral, casting his eyes at the window, "that it blows a pretty little off-
shore breeze from the north. The sea is rippled by it into a dark blue, and your
ship will sail into it with almost square yards." "No ship of mine departs
without my heart accompanying her," said Captain Acton. "I believe I am bound to
go in one of them to the West Indies some day or other, but not whilst there's
an enemy's cruiser to be met with in the circle of the horizon." "I suppose,
sir," said Miss Acton to the Admiral, "that there is no further news of the
descent of the French." "Plenty of news, madam," answered the Admiral, "but most
of the reports are lies born of fear. The French never can get a footing upon
this land." This led to a brief argument between Captain Acton and Sir William,
who was making a prodigious breakfast off a large crab, which he affirmed was
much more delicate eating than the lobster, as the shrimp is sweeter than the
prawn, though people whom the actor Quin loved to deride were of a different
opinion. He had begun with crab, and was now ploughing heartily through a dish
of eggs and bacon, with a view to letting go his anchor in some savoury
sausages. Captain Acton fed capriciously, as a man who thinks of his digestion
more than his appetite. After breakfast the Captain went to his library to
transact certain business with a lawyer and one or two others, Miss Acton to the
housekeeper's room, there to receive certain poor people, and Sir William
Lawrence, filling his pipe, waited in the grounds until Captain Acton should
appear, and diverted himself as best he could with conversation with the
gardeners and in admiring the springing flowers. He came from the kitchen garden
and was standing in the middle of the lawn, where he obtained a view of the sea
betwixt the bluff on which stood the windmill and the other bluff on which stood
the lighthouse. He sent his gaze in the direction of Old Harbour. It was a
heedless gaze. He took no particular note. Alongside the wharves a number of
small vessels were moored. They somewhat crowded the eye with their rigging and
spars. The brig-of-war lay in her accustomed place off the pier. Apparently it
was not Lieutenant Tupman's intention to put to sea that day. All of a sudden
the Admiral's gaze, that was somewhat heedless--that of a man who takes in a
general prospect without regard to particulars--grew intent: his eyes were fixed
on Old Harbour. In a minute they grew more than intent: astonishment dilated
them, and they were not without the sparkle of alarm. He rubbed his eyes, and
removing his pipe from his lips strained his gaze once more at the shipping in
the Harbour. "Good God!" he ejaculated, "where is she?" Only a little bit of sea
lay within his sight; that which he had seen ran in blue ripples between the
points of cliff which framed the entrance to Old Harbour. Though the scene was
distant, his sight, for a man of advanced age, was fairly good, and even all
that distance off, he could without much difficulty distinguish the fine lines
of the _Aurora's_ masts bearing their trucks high above the spars and rigging of
the vessels abaft and ahead of her. He walked to a bed of flowers at which an
under-gardener was at work, and said to the man: "Have you good eyes?" "I can
see a good bit, your honour." "Do you know the _Minorca_?" "Oh yes, sir." "Could
you distinguish her if she's in the Harbour at this distance?" "Why, sartinly,
your honour," answered the man, looking at the Admiral. "Then tell me if you see
her," and the Admiral watched him with such an expression of face as he might
have looked with at a falling barometer in seas distinguished for cyclones and
typhoons. The gardener gazed and gazed, and his intent regard crumpled his brow,
for he seemed ambitious to be able to say he could see the ship. After a
considerable pause, during a portion of which the man sheltered his eyes with
his hand, he exclaimed: "If the _Minorca's_ a three-masted vessel, square rigged
forward, and fore-and-aft rigged on the mizzen-mast, then all that I can say is,
your honour, she ain't among that shipping down there." Without speech the
Admiral walked away swiftly on the stout staff he was used to carry, striking
the sward with it till you witnessed the energy of his thoughts with each blow,
and, entering the hall of Old Harbour House, took down from its brackets a very
handsome, and for those times, powerful telescope with which he returned to the
place he had left, where he might obtain the best view of the Harbour that was
to be got from the grounds of the mansion. He levelled the tubes at the
shipping, but witnessed no signs of the _Minorca_. He was amazed. The glass sank
in his hand, and he rubbed his naked eye and fastened it again upon the Harbour.
The vessel was to sail at half-past twelve, and it was now about a quarter past
ten, and the _Minorca_ was gone. The old gentleman took aim with his glass at
the little breadth of sea that was in sight, in a hopeless way conceiving that a
sail, invisible to his bare vision, might leap into the lenses out of the
distant blue recess, and proclaim herself to his nautical eye as the ship that
was gone. Nothing was in sight. He stood musing. It was, as we have seen, about
a quarter past ten. Captain Acton would not have completed his business until
something after eleven. Should the Admiral invade him with the announcement of
this strange disappearance of his ship? He considered the matter a little, and
concluded that it must be impossible but that, although Captain Acton had been
silent on the subject at the breakfast table, he must know the business of his
ship, and that it was understood between him and Mr Lawrence that if the wind
served, or anything unforeseen befell, or if Mr Lawrence in his judgment chose
to sail before the time announced, he was at liberty to let go his fasts and
blow into the open at any hour he pleased. Thus it struck the old man, though
secretly he did not regard his own reasoning as sagacious. Nevertheless he
determined to await Captain Acton's arrival from the business which was holding
him in his library; so he lighted his pipe afresh with his singular little
pistol-shaped pipe-lighter and struck about the grounds with his staff, blowing
great clouds out of the depth of his meditation, and often heaving a sailor's
blessing at the two points of cliff which interrupted the view of the sea to
east and west of the coast. It was a few minutes past eleven when Captain Acton
came out of the house talking to Miss Acton, who was followed by her own and
Lucy's dog. "Sorry to have kept you waiting so long, Admiral!" exclaimed Captain
Acton. "Why, sir," answered the Admiral, "I don't see that we should be late if
we did not go at all." "I don't quite understand," said Captain Acton, gazing
with friendly interest at the jolly, round, weather-dyed face of Sir William,
whose looks certainly at this moment did not wear the jocund complexion they
were used to carry. "Your telescope is in the hall, sir," said the Admiral. "But
your sight is very good. I presume that you are aware that your ship has left
her berth, and is not in the Harbour." "Not in the Harbour!" cried Miss Acton.
"Good gracious, has she sunk, do you think?" Captain Acton sent a swift and
searching glance at the shipping in the distance. He then with quick steps
fetched his glass. By his movements and countenance the Admiral immediately
perceived that he did not know his ship had sailed. He pointed the telescope at
the shipping. The _Minorca_ was certainly not one of them. The river flowed bare
from the sea under its bridges to its inland recesses, and offered no creek nor
shelter to the eye for a vessel of any tonnage. If the barque was not in the
Harbour, she had put to sea. Both observers on the lawn were sailors, and did
not need to be told this. "If your son has sailed," said Captain Acton, with a
face charged with perplexity, doubt, irritation, and astonishment, "he had no
authority to do so. What has caused him to take this step? Surely as a sailor
who has served the State, he, before all masters in the Merchant Service, ought
to understand the meaning of the word of command." Sir William's countenance
resembled the expression that probably decorated Captain Marryat's Port Admiral
when he was told in no uncompromising language, "You be damned!" "And where,
pray, is Lucy?" said Miss Acton, in a voice querulous with alarm and other
feelings, for Miss Acton was one of those old ladies who are always praising
Providence for its blessings, but who are very willing to find calamity in
trifles. "She is a long time gone. Who says that she breakfasted with the
Jellybottles? And at what time did she leave the house? And if Mamie went with
her why is she here?" she added, turning her eyes upon the little terrier. The
hall door was wide open; a footman was crossing the hall. Captain Acton called
to him. "What time this morning did Miss Lucy leave the house?" "I don't know,
sir. I'll ascertain, sir," and the man disappeared. "The _Minorca not_ in the
Harbour!" exclaimed Miss Acton, staring at the cluster of rigs, beyond which
rose the breadth of narrow sea shining in a blue tremble to its horizon. "No
accident could have happened or you would have heard, brother." "Miss Lucy went
out at about half-past seven, sir," said the footman. "Come, Admiral, we will
walk to the Harbour and enquire into this matter," said Captain Acton, who was
somewhat pale and looked extremely disconcerted. "But where is Lucy?" cried Miss
Acton. "Send the people about and make enquiries," answered Captain Acton. "She
is making calls. It is the _Minorca_ that has disappeared." "But what a dreadful
responsibility to leave upon my shoulders," said Miss Acton. "Suppose those I
send about come back and say she is not to be found? It is more than I can bear.
The charge is too awful! What am I to do if she is not to be found?" "But she is
to be found," cried Captain Acton, surveying his sister with a quarterdeck
severity of look. "What do you think? That Lucy has run away with the ship? She
has breakfasted somewhere and is gossiping somewhere else. I leave you to make
enquiries, sister. The area to be covered is not wide. She will be telling you
where she has been before we return. Come, Sir William, this is the most
extraordinary thing that has happened to me in my time!" The two gentlemen set
out at a vigorous pace, leaving the poor old lady overwhelmed, motionless, and
gaping with the alarm raised in her by this enormous obligation of discovering
whether her niece had breakfasted with the Jellybottles or with other folks,
where she was, and why she had not returned since half-past seven that morning.
All the conversation of the two officers consisted of idle speculations as to
the cause of the _Minorca_ having sailed some hours before the time announced
for her departure. It was clearly necessary that Mr Lawrence should have much
business to do before he could quit his moorings, and that if the ship had
sailed as early as the Captain and the Admiral suspected, her captain had
completed all necessary arrangements on the previous day. For first the loading
of the vessel was to be fully completed, and all the necessary papers and
documents to be on board, the clearance or transire from the Customs duly
obtained, and the master furnished with copies of the charter party or
memorandum of charter party and of the policies of insurance on both ship and
goods. "I saw Mr Lawrence on several occasions yesterday," exclaimed Captain
Acton, "and he did not suggest by a syllable that he was making ready to sail
early this morning before the various officials he would have to see were
aboard." The Admiral struck his staff strongly upon the earth and stopped to
look through a break in the hedge in the lane or road which they were
descending, at Old Harbour: the Captain stopped too; they stared amain. "But he
must have had some object!" cried the old Admiral, whose face was strongly
flushed with heat and conflicting passions. "We shall very shortly find out what
that object is, and I shall feel very greatly astonished if it does not satisfy
you, sir, as well as myself." They resumed their walk. When they had reached the
bridge they found old Mr Greyquill, leaning over the rail, and gazing with
intentness, with a sort of lifting leer which could not be defined as a smile,
though it was like the shadow of one, in the direction of Old Harbour. This
person was not used to address either of the gentlemen on meeting them in the
public streets. They were accustomed to nod in silence. But this morning as the
Admiral and the Captain passed him, the Admiral so close as to brush his coat-
tail, the old scrivener turned with a rapid motion and exclaimed, still
preserving his singular leer: "I beg pardon, gentlemen, but as I fail to see the
_Minorca_ amongst the ships, may I enquire if she has sailed?" "That, sir, is
the errand which is carrying us to the wharves," answered the Admiral, and the
two passed on, whilst Mr Greyquill, retaining a hold on the rail of the bridge
with his hand, gazed after them with an unchanged face. It was hard upon twelve
o'clock when Captain Acton and his friend reached the wharves. Though there was
plenty of shipping about to suggest occupation there was little apparently
doing. Here and there a song was monotonously sung by sailors or labourers who
were leisurely taking in or discharging cargo. Had the _Minorca_ sailed at her
appointed hour the little Harbour would no doubt have looked gay with colours
flying on the ships and plenty of gossips to see the vessels off on the wharf.
Captain Acton and the Admiral turned into the Custom House, and the first person
they met after leaving it was Josiah Weaver, master of the _Aurora_, a thick-set
man of a dark-red complexion rendered more glowing still by the sun, greasy
deep-red hair, ear-rings, and brown eyes which moved sharply in their sheaths.
"I find," cried Captain Acton, eagerly addressing him, "that the _Minorca_ has
sailed. How is this? Do you know anything about the matter?" "She left the
Harbour at about a quarter past eight this morning, sir," answered Weaver. "At
about a quarter past eight!" exclaimed Captain Acton. "What was Mr Lawrence's
object in quitting his berth before the fixed time?" Captain Weaver faintly
smiled, slightly glancing at Admiral Lawrence. "When I saw the ship starting,"
said he, "I walked over to her and asked Mr Lawrence, who was standing right aft
watching the crew working, making sail and so forth, what made him in such a
hurry, and he answered that he had received news on the previous night of a
French cruiser that was hovering over this part of the coast, that when last
seen she was standing to the east'ard, and that he had made up his mind to sneak
the _Minorca_ out at daybreak if possible so as to have the heels of her should
she shift her helm, as he had no mind to start his first voyage in Captain
Acton's employ by being taken by a French cruiser and locked up for a time no
man could detarmine." "And that was the reason for sailing which he gave you?"
said Captain Acton. "Yes, sir." Captain Acton looked at the Admiral, who was
staring sternly into Captain Weaver's face. "Mr Lawrence told you," said Captain
Acton, "that he had received the news of this cruiser last night. At what hour,
do you think?" "That, sir, I couldn't say," answered Captain Weaver. "But we
might take it as his having heard it after eight o'clock." "In that case he must
have intended during the day," said Captain Acton, addressing the Admiral, "to
sail early this morning. For, as I have explained to you, he could have had no
time to do his business at so early an hour at which he started this morning,
nor would the officials be seen at that time. Therefore he must have made the
necessary arrangements yesterday for what he contemplated as a daybreak
departure this morning." "Does the ship call anywhere in England before her
final departure for her port?" asked the Admiral in a voice that proclaimed his
heart hot with bewilderment, doubt, and anger. "No, sir," answered Captain
Acton. "A pity!" said the Admiral, striking the ground with his staff.
"Otherwise I would have posted it, caught him, and asked him his reason, which
to satisfy me would have to prove infinitely more intelligible than the one
Captain Weaver has repeated." "I saw him two or three times yesterday," said
Captain Acton. "He had nothing to say about French cruisers in the offing. Nor
did he give me a hint that he was taking the necessary steps to quit this
Harbour early this morning." "Is the ship in sight?" exclaimed the Admiral. "No,
sir. A man came down from the cliffs," answered Captain Weaver, "and I asked him
that question, and he said she'd rounded the coast to the west'ard." "The
pilot," said Captain Acton, "was John Andrews. Was he on board, do you know?"
"Yes, sir," answered Captain Weaver, "I took notice of him on the fok'sle." They
could obtain no further information from Captain Weaver. They called at "The
Swan" and saw the landlord, who told them that he had seen Mr Lawrence on the
previous day, that, in fact, he had lunched at the Inn and sat next him, but had
said never a word about the change in the sailing of his ship. They called upon
Mrs Andrews, the pilot's wife, who informed them that Mr Lawrence had told her
husband the day before that the hour of sailing had been changed, and that the
_Minorca_ would leave Old Harbour shortly after eight o'clock instead of half-
past twelve. "Did Mr Lawrence state the reason of this change?" enquired Captain
Acton. "Not to my husband, sir, who naturally thought the matter all right, and
said he would be on board at half-past seven." They met Lieutenant Tupman of the
_Saucy_ brig-of-war, a large, fat, purple, smiling man, with the word grog
written in small red veins over his nose and parts of his cheeks: obviously a
good-natured, drunken fellow who would fight, no doubt, if a Frenchman opposed
him, but who preferred his bed and "The Swan" to frequent sentinel cruisings in
his little ship of war. Both gentlemen knew him slightly. They ventured on this
occasion to stop and accost him. They asked him if it was true that news of a
French cruiser being off the coast had come to hand, and he answered that he had
not heard of such a ship being near the coast. The replies of other questions
put to Mr Tupman were equally unsatisfactory, and it now being past one o'clock
and the information the Captain and the Admiral had obtained not being worth the
questions that had elicited it, they stepped on to the bridge and walked in the
direction of Old Harbour House, the Admiral saying that he would accompany the
Captain to his home, as he was anxious to hear if Miss Acton had obtained news
of Lucy. CHAPTER VIII

WHERE IS LUCY? Captain Acton and the Admiral walked a few hundred paces in
silence, each lost in thought. Very abruptly the Admiral stopped, obliging his
companion to halt. "If I have your permission, sir," he exclaimed, "I will at
once send a messenger in a post-chaise to the Commander-in-Chief at Plymouth,
and after stating the facts request him to send a ship to overtake or intercept
and arrest the _Minorca_, and you will then be able to ascertain direct from my
son the meaning and causes of his extraordinary conduct." Captain Acton resumed
his walk, and the Admiral rolled by his side beating the ground. "That idea has
occurred to me," he said, "and I have dismissed it, sir, for what reception
would the Commander-in-Chief give such a message as you propose? The master of a
ship, who is fully empowered to act in the interests of his owners, chooses to
leave a certain harbour some hours earlier than the time announced. The reason
he gives is that there is a Frenchman in the neighbourhood whom he is anxious to
avoid and escape. The Commander-in-Chief's sympathy would be with him in that.
It is no case of piracy to ship a pilot, and the mate and crew which the vessel
carried last voyage; and besides, sir, would the sloop, corvette, or frigate
which the Commander-in-Chief might choose to send, overhaul the _Minorca_ if
your son determined that his purpose, whatever it may be, should be prosecuted
without interruption? She is certainly as swift as the fastest thing that we
have in the Navy, and there is no reason to suppose that any vessel as fast
would be despatched in chase. Plymouth is a long distance from this spot, and
messengers are not always the rapid people we desire them to be. No, sir, we
have to accept the position as it is. The ship has sailed; Mr Lawrence's conduct
is unaccountable. We must continue to regard him as the honourable, well-meaning
man which I have found him during our association in the matter of this command,
and I must await with a certain degree of confidence a letter in which he will
communicate the full meaning of what is now unintelligible to us." The Admiral
bowed in silence. He was the father of the person they were talking about.
Captain Acton's acceptance of an incident which must instantly prove sinister to
a suspicious intelligence was noble and gracious, and it was certainly not for
the father to endeavour to prove his son a rogue and a scoundrel, and perhaps
worse still, in the teeth of the disposition of his employer to continue to
place trust in him. When they were within ten minutes' walk of Old Harbour
House, they met Mr Adams, who was an agent for a gentleman who lived in London,
and who owned a great deal of property in the neighbourhood of Old Harbour Town.
"I beg your pardon, squire," said Mr Adams, addressing Captain Acton, who with
the Admiral was passing on with a nod, "but I understand that enquiries are
being made after your daughter." Both the old retired officers instantly
stopped. "Has she returned home?" asked Captain Acton. "I cannot tell you that,
sir, but this morning at about a quarter before eight o'clock, I was about ten
minutes' walk this side Old Harbour Bridge. I was going up the road and met your
daughter, who was alone, coming down. A few minutes after I had passed her, I
happened to look round and perceived that she had been stopped by a young man,
humpbacked and otherwise deformed, well known to me as a fellow who used to hang
about Old Town, and called by the single word Paul. As your daughter was alone I
slackened my pace and continued to look to see what the man wanted with her, and
observed that he gave her a letter which she read, and I heard her exclaim on
reading it: 'Oh dear! I hope it is not serious,' and she immediately walked
swiftly on followed by the fellow called Paul. She turned the bend of the road,
and I pursued my way." "I beg your pardon," exclaimed Captain Acton, whose
agitation was marked when Mr Adams ceased to speak, "but may I enquire if you
are quite sure that it was my daughter whom you met?" "Sir, there is but one
Lucy Acton in this country, and no man who has set eyes on her is ever likely to
forget her beauty and sweetness." Captain Acton bowed, but his distress was
lively. "What sort of a fellow was this who stopped Miss Acton?" enquired the
Admiral. "Was he a pauper? Broken clothes, whining voice, the suppliant's
demeanour--that sort of thing?" "I have known the fellow by sight some years. He
got his living by running errands, and has in his day, I believe, been watched
with some attention by the magistrates. He is a red-haired, hunchbacked, long-
armed man with rounded legs, and I marked a peculiarity in him whilst he
addressed the lady which I have before taken notice of when passing him as he
lounged in the sun, or stood waiting in a door: I mean that whilst the young
lady was reading the missive, he scratched his left shoulder precisely as a
monkey scratches himself." Captain Acton started, and stared hard at Mr Adams.
"Did you notice how he was dressed?" he asked. "In a camlet jacket. There was
something of the sailor's rig in his costume." "Then the fellow," said Captain
Acton, "is steward of the _Minorca_! This gentleman," said he, addressing the
Admiral, "has exactly described the figure of a man who passed me in the cabin
two or three days ago when I was talking to Mr Lawrence. Judging that he
belonged to the ship, and being struck by his appearance, I asked Mr Lawrence
who he was, and he answered that he was a poor devil whom he had shipped as a
steward or captain's waiter out of pity, and he said something about having once
paid a fine for the man to rescue him from a term of imprisonment to which he
would have been sentenced for some trifling offence." The Admiral's face wore an
expression that was almost imbecile with bewilderment. "From whom was that
letter? Who is the person that Miss Lucy has fled to help? It cannot possibly be
my son, sir. If he had met with a serious accident, would the ship have sailed?
But even if he had met with a serious accident and left the duty of going to sea
with the mate, would he have sent to Miss Lucy? I am utterly beaten. I see
nothing, and can conjecture nothing!" Captain Acton with a violent effort had by
this time recollected himself. "I am much obliged to you, sir, for your
information," he said to Mr Adams. "We may find her at home, sir," he said,
addressing the Admiral. "An explanation will simplify the miraculous. Good day,
sir, and many thanks." He bowed to Mr Adams, and again set off with the Admiral
for Old Harbour House. "To me it is impossible to suppose," said Sir William,
"that my son could have written the letter which Mr Adams saw your daughter
reading. Captain Weaver told us plainly that my son was aft on the quarterdeck
of the _Minorca_ at the time that she was hauling out from the wharf. It is
perfectly clear therefore that no accident could have befallen him. Nor is it
imaginable that, even if he had met with a disaster, he would dream of
communicating with your daughter. Why your daughter, sir? If they are on bowing
terms we may take it that their intimacy scarcely goes farther. Depend upon it,
there is some man in connection with this business, in whom your daughter is
interested--of course, sir, you will understand me to mean as a sweet and
beautiful Christian sympathiser, as one to whom every sort of misfortune
appeals, to whom suffering and misery are quick to make themselves known, being
sure of heartfelt, womanly pity. The moment I have had a peck, after hearing
whether Miss Lucy has arrived at home, I will devote the rest of the day to
enquiries about this person who wrote the letter which Mr Adams saw delivered."
"Speculation is idle," exclaimed Captain Acton, with a slight flavour of
impatience in his manner. "I am profoundly puzzled. There can be no question
from Mr Adams's statement and from my own observation that the fellow who
delivered the missive is cabin-boy, or steward, or whatever you please to call
him, of the _Minorca_, chosen by your son, as he admits, though it seemed to me
as I looked at him that nobody less likely and less inviting for such a post
could have been found in the district." These and a few further words brought
them to the gateway of Old Harbour House. They entered and found Miss Acton in
the dining-room. "Well," she cried in a voice of tremulous eagerness, "have you
heard of her?" This was proof conclusive that Miss Acton had not. "She has not
returned, then?" said Captain Acton. "No, nor can I get to hear of her,"
answered Miss Acton, whose voice trembled with tears and terror. "Wasn't she
down on the wharves?" "We have heard of her, but not as we could wish, sister,"
said Captain Acton. "But what have _you_ done to find her, or to hear of her?"
"Why," answered the old lady, "I sent George and Joseph on horseback to every
house where she is known, and she has visited none, nor been seen by any this
morning. Yes, Mrs Moore as she was passing our gate, caught a sight of her
coming out of the house at half-past seven, or at some such time, and gave her a
curtsy and received a smile. But nobody else that George and Joseph met and
called upon has seen her this day. What have you to tell me about her?" Captain
Acton repeated Mr Adams's statement. The old lady's face was slowly moulded into
a mask that her friends would scarcely have recognised by the horror and terror
that worked in her. She cried: "A dirty fellow giving her a letter, and
beguiling her and luring her into some dreadful place, perhaps to her
destruction! Oh dear! oh dear! what is to be done? Can't she be discovered?
Can't the bell-man raise the alarm? Who can the wretch be that wrote to her? And
why should she rush away to his help? Oh dear! oh dear! what is to be done?"
"I'll do something," said the Admiral. "I'll call upon you this evening and tell
you what I have found out. Farewell for the present. No, I thank you, I must go
home first and I'll get a bite that awaits me, and then away to Old Harbour
Town, and the place shall be dredged, and the fellow who wrote the letter found,
and the lady restored to her home if wrong has been done her, if there is one
ounce of energy left in this old composition." He bowed with the vehemence of a
man who butts at another, struck the floor hard with his staff, and rolled out
on legs that showed themselves more expeditious than his years seemed to
promise. Captain and Miss Acton sat down to dinner. An elegant repast was
rendered insipid in every dish by the absence of Lucy. The Captain's excellent
if fastidious appetite was gone, and his eyes often wandered to his daughter's
vacant place. Brother and sister had but one subject in their minds; they talked
but little, however, for servants were present. When they were alone, Miss Acton
exclaimed: "I hope I may be forgiven if I do him a wrong, and I love his old
father, who is the soul of honour and a fine example of a true gentleman of the
sea, but I cannot help thinking, brother, that Mr Lawrence has had a hand in our
Lucy's disappearance." And the worthy old lady's eyes grew dim as she pronounced
the words "our Lucy." Captain Acton started from a reverie and looked at her
attentively. "You want to imply," he cried, "that there was an understanding
between Mr Lawrence and my daughter?" "I cannot imagine why the steward of the
ship came to be employed, as Mr Adams tells us--an assertion you justify by
saying that you saw this man in the cabin of the vessel--unless Mr Lawrence sent
the letter." Captain Acton expanded his chest, and a look of haughtiness entered
his face. "Sister, is your opinion of Lucy such that you imagine she can have
anything to do with Mr Lawrence unknown to me?" But a quality of stubbornness
was one of Miss Acton's characteristics. "He offered her marriage, brother."
"Yes. And she rejected him with the peremptoriness which I should have expected
in her." "A woman," said Miss Acton, "cannot but think with more or less
kindness of the man who offers her marriage and who loves her. She may reject
him, but she will always feel a tenderness for him." "But do I understand," said
Captain Acton, "that you mean that Lucy was secretly attached to the man whose
hand she declined, and that she speeds to him at the first call that is made
upon her by such a missive as the fellow Paul delivered?" "I cannot but think,"
answered Miss Acton, "that Lucy had a secret hankering after Mr Lawrence. He is
exceedingly handsome. In bearing he is superior to any man of quality I ever
met, and for fine manners you must look to the aristocracy of this country. He
can make a leg with the grace equal to any master of elegant salutations; and
though his character is bad, yet there are many points in him which women
admire, and I say," she continued, with perseverance and a fixity of meaning
truly astonishing in an old lady who in most matters scarcely knew her own mind,
who was easily filled with terror, and who seldom acted without consulting her
friends, "Lucy has a secret liking for the man, which could scarcely escape the
observation of any one who watched them when they are in company." With an
expression of face that was near to amazement Captain Acton said: "Do you want
me to believe that Lucy has eloped with Mr Lawrence?" "Lord forbid! She is too
God-fearing, and too nobly and sweetly moulded as a woman to be capable of any
such descent." "Then I do not understand you," said Captain Acton. "What has
become of her?" cried Miss Acton, sinking suddenly into her tremulous voice and
into a manner of alarm, bewilderment, and general confusion of mind. "What shall
you do to find out?" "As I am quite convinced," said Captain Acton, "that Mr
Lawrence has nothing to do with this business, and as I feel persuaded that the
call made upon her is by some man or woman--for how are we to know the sex of
the person who wrote that letter?--in whom her charity is interested, and whom
she has been helping according to her wont in ways unknown to us, I shall devote
the afternoon as Sir William intends, to making enquiries in Old Harbour Town
and about the wharves----"

"But she cannot be in Old Town or even in the district," broke in Miss Acton,
"or why did she not return to dinner? She has had the whole morning. From a
little after seven till now is a very long time, and a hundred acts of charity
may be performed in less." Though Captain Acton was not a man to be influenced
by his sister's opinions he knew her to be in many directions a shrewd,
observant woman, who could deliver herself of many stupid antiquated notions,
whilst at times she would astonish him by the sagacity of her views and the
penetration with which she interpreted human motives. We shall not be surprised,
therefore, when we learn that shortly after dinner he ordered his mare to be
saddled, and rode straight into Old Harbour Town, where he stabled the mare at
"The Swan" and walked direct to the wharves, first of all to learn if anybody
had seen Lucy down at the shipping early that morning. He made for the _Aurora_
and found Captain Weaver on board. He immediately related Mr Adams' story, and
asked Captain Weaver if he had seen Miss Lucy Acton down by the _Minorca_ or
near her, or aboard of her shortly before she sailed. "No, sir," was Captain
Weaver's answer. "I came on to the wharf as the _Minorca_ was warping out, and
talked with Mr Lawrence from the quay-side. I saw nothing of the young lady,
who, depend upon it, sir, would have immediately caught my attention had I seen
her." "It is very strange," said Captain Acton, "that that mis-shapen fellow
made by Mr Lawrence the steward of the ship, should be employed to convey a
letter to my daughter at so early an hour when there was very little likelihood
of finding the young lady abroad." "The whole job of the ship sailing before her
time is a mystery to me, sir," said Captain Weaver. "Walk with me, and we'll
endeavour to find out if Miss Lucy Acton was on the wharf after the hour of
half-past seven this morning, and before the _Minorca_ sailed." Captain Weaver
knew many who were engaged on the several wharves, and so indeed did Captain
Acton. They asked two or three score of different persons the question, but the
majority had not been down on the wharves at that time, and the few who were at
work declared that they had not seen her. It seemed impossible to Captain Weaver
as well as to Captain Acton, that so beautiful and well known a lady as Miss
Lucy should make her appearance on the wharf at a time of day when scarce more
than labourers were about, without being either recognised or seen, and her
presence borne witness to by those who did not know who she was. They went on
board the several vessels lying in the harbour, but the answer they received was
that of the wharf: Miss Lucy Acton had not been seen, or at all events noticed.
"I will leave you," said Captain Acton, "to make further enquiries, sir, and you
will be pleased to immediately communicate with me at my home should you meet
with anybody who can positively swear that my daughter was down here between
seven and eight this morning." He seemed convinced by these enquiries at the
wharves that at all events Mr Lawrence could have had nothing whatever to do
with the communication which Mr Adams had seen Paul place in the hands of Miss
Lucy. Who, then, was the sender of the note, and how was it that Paul, who
should have been on board his ship since she was on the eve of sailing, should
have been engaged to carry the letter? There was really no particular reason why
the writer should be a man. Why should not she be a woman? She might even be a
relative of the fellow Paul. Lucy was a girl of singular kindness, who was
always helping others and going amongst the poor and ministering to the
afflicted; and though Captain Acton could not positively say, he might readily
believe that she had one or two or three poor sufferers on her list whom she saw
to and helped with her purse, and one of these--possibly a woman--might have
written the letter in a moment of urgency intending it for delivery at Old
Harbour House. Captain Acton walked slowly towards Old Harbour Town. He was sunk
in thought, and was in deep distress and at a loss to know what to do. He had no
machinery of police to command. 1805 was a year very primitive as compared with
1905. He reflected that the first step in the disappearance of his daughter as
represented in the statement of Mr Adams might indicate nothing in respect of
the real cause of her disappearance. Because, suppose his surmise was correct,
and that she had hastened to the help of some afflicted or humble person whom
she befriended, she might, after having left the place wherever it was, have met
with some disaster; she might have fallen over the cliff--she might on some
roundabout way home have been robbed and left for dying; in short, when a person
mysteriously disappears a hundred reasons for his or her envanishment will occur
to the mind, and any one of them may so satisfy, so convince, that those who
accept it will go to work as though it were the truth though it possess but the
very attenuated merit of being a conjecture. At six o'clock, greatly wearied,
Captain Acton mounted his mare at "The Swan" stables and rode home. He was very
pale. Indeed this man loved his daughter, who was his only child. His immediate
question, put with bright-eyed passion to the servant who came to the door, was,
"Has Miss Lucy returned?" "No, sir." "Has news been received of her?" "I don't
think so, sir." "Has Admiral Lawrence been here?" "No, sir." Captain Acton
walked into his house and sought his sister, whom he found alone in the dining-
room. She was seated on a high-backed chair knitting. Her own and Lucy's dog lay
at her feet. She started at the entrance of Captain Acton, dropped her knitting
in her lap, and half rose at her brother, clutching the arms of the chair.
"Well!" she cried in a note that was like a suppressed scream with excitement,
fear, and expectation. "What have you heard? Is there any news of her? What have
you to tell me?" He sat down, looking very weary. "I have heard nothing of her,
sister. Nobody saw her on the wharf at the time the _Minorca_ sailed, and there
was plenty about, labourers ashore, and sailors in the ships." "Then what have
you done to find out what has become of her?" "Believing that she might have met
with some accident--God knows of what serious nature--on her return from the
person whose letter she received"--Miss Acton looked stunned at such an idea--"I
called at Arrowsmith's first of all, and wrote out a placard, offering a reward
of fifty guineas to any one who can find Miss Lucy Acton, who can state her
whereabouts, or who can give any information as to her disappearance since half-
past seven o'clock this morning, which was dated and the day named. This placard
will be printed and pasted in Old Harbour Town, and over a wide area of the
district before nightfall. I also gave a copy of this placard to the bell-man.
What further publicity could I command?" "But what do you fear, brother? What
could have happened to her?" "Why, suppose on her way home by way of the cliffs,
or by any other of the roads by which this house may be gained, she fell upon
the rocks, or was met by a band of gipsies, or attacked for her money and left
for dead----"

His feelings overcame him, and he looked upon the ground in silence. "Nothing of
the sort. I am sure of it!" exclaimed Miss Acton. "Who hears of such outrages
happening here?" "But to fall over the edge of a cliff is not an outrage," said
Captain Acton. "She is too careful. She may safely be trusted. Besides, are
there not blockaders stationed along these cliffs, and would not one see her on
the rocks? No, no, no! an accident is not the cause of her disappearance. The
more I think, the more persuaded I am that Mr Lawrence has had a hand in this
horrid business. Why did he sail so early and long before his time? Why was his
steward Paul engaged to carry the letter?" "You again want to imply, sister,"
said Captain Acton with a darkling face, "that my daughter has eloped with the
man she rejected." "Rejected, but she has a hankering for him still," said the
old lady with one of those smiles of knowingness which make the lineaments
ghastly when bitter sorrow and tragic trouble are the topics talked about.
Captain Acton left the room to refresh himself with a change of apparel, and
returned after a brief absence. He was a man of considerable but not powerful
self-control. He entered the room with a face that indicated a certain
resolution of mind, and said to his sister: "I have been thinking, perhaps, that
we have been unnecessarily flurried and somewhat hurried in our conjecture and
efforts. I believe I have done well in giving all possible publicity to the fact
that Lucy left her home this morning and has not returned. But when I come to
reflect that even now it is not twelve hours since she started on her early
walk, I consider that she has not been long enough absent to cause us the bitter
anxiety we have felt and are feeling. Suppose after visiting the person from
whom she received the letter, she breakfasted with a friend on the other side of
Old Harbour Town. This friend may have induced her to stop to dinner; a drive
might follow. There are hundreds of things in this business which when explained
would seem perfectly reasonable, so that at any moment she may turn up and tell
us the story of her day's outing, and wonder that we should be so troubled
because of an absence that she makes perfectly comprehensible. I shall hold to
this view," he continued firmly, "until the night is advanced. If she does not
return to-night then we must take further steps to-morrow." "What steps?" asked
his sister. "What steps have not been taken that remain to be taken?" He had
suddenly sunk in reflection and did not answer her. "I should be uneasy in my
mind in any case," said Miss Acton. "But that odious steward of the _Minorca_
being in the business together with the unwarrantable sailing of the vessel
hours before her time, fills me with dread and terror, and I cannot, brother,
listen to what you say about her breakfasting and dining with a friend and going
for a drive, and so forth. She would guess at our suspense and anxiety. Is our
Lucy a girl to cause unnecessary pain and unhappiness, not indeed to those who
love her as we do, but to the humblest creature in the world?" Just then the
door was opened, and the footman announced "Admiral Sir William Lawrence." The
old gentleman entered, not with his familiar deep-sea rolling gait, but slowly
and wearily, and with an air of dejection. Lucy's dog welcomed him by barking
and rushing at his shoe and trying to bite through it. Miss Acton rose and sank
in a curtsy which is to be seen in these days only on the stage, but her kindly
heart quickened her gaze for anything that invited sympathy, and she immediately
said: "Sir William, you are quite worn out. You need refreshment. Pray sit, pray
sit! What will you take?" "We will have some brandy and seltzer water," said
Captain Acton, pulling the bell, knowing this drink to be as great a favourite
with the Admiral as hock and soda water was with Lord Byron. "I am sorry to
say," said the Admiral, sinking into a chair, "that I have brought no news." "I
have scoured Old Harbour Town and can obtain no information," said Captain
Acton; "but it is certain that no one seems to have seen her down on the wharf
between seven and eight this morning." "I heard the bell-man recite your
notice," said Sir William, speaking leisurely, as one who is tired out; "that,
and the bill which they were beginning to paste as I came this way, should help.
I've walked my legs off. I have enquired everywhere. I, too, asked if Miss Lucy
had been seen down at the harbour at any hour this morning. But my fixed idea
was, and still is, that the person who wrote to her through the _Minorca's_
steward was somebody that she helped, somebody in poverty and want, and I called
upon everybody likely to know of the existence of such an individual; but to no
purpose. The parson, the apothecary, all the tradespeople I looked in upon,
could tell me nothing. Once I thought I had run the person we want to earth. Mrs
Moore, who keeps the greengrocer's shop, told me that there was an old woman who
lived in a cottage just out of Lower Street, out of whose house she had once
seen Miss Lucy Acton issue. I got the address, called at the cottage and saw a
squalid female who said she was Mrs Mortimer's niece, and that Mrs Mortimer had
died that morning at five o'clock. She said it was true that Miss Acton
occasionally visited Mrs Mortimer and brought her little comforts and read to
her. I got no further. This is the extent and value of my report, and I am as
profoundly puzzled," said the Admiral, raising the glass of brandy and seltzer
and examining it before he drank, "as I was this morning." "She may turn up at
any moment," said Captain Acton, with more gloom than the hope his words
expressed justified. "She has only been twelve hours missing." "Only!" cried
Miss Acton. "Sir William," she went on slowly, nodding, at him whilst her face
hardened, "I have a conviction which my brother does not share. It seems to me,
sir, impossible to think of the unexpected and terrifying departure of the
_Minorca_ hours before her time, and the conveyance of a letter by the steward
of the vessel, without feeling the conviction I speak of." "And what is that
conviction, madam?" asked Sir William, from whose jolly round face fatigue had
robbed much of its warm colour. "I regret to have to say it," said Miss Acton,
"but I must think--I cannot help it, that Mr Lawrence's hand is in this strange
disappearance of my niece." Captain Acton slightly frowned upon the old dame,
and exclaimed: "I think, Caroline, you should have withheld your conviction, for
the present at all events, from Admiral Lawrence." Sir William looked firmly and
somewhat sternly at Miss Acton and said: "I am very sorry, madam, that you
should hold this opinion, very sorry indeed. I had thought you the friend and
well-wisher of my son--in this respect eminently the charitable and warm-hearted
sister of Captain Acton. But if you mean to imply that Mr Lawrence wrote the
letter to Miss Lucy, then you have to confess (which would be an indignity done
to a beautiful character) that your niece was a willing recipient of my son's
missive, that she hastened to him on reading the contents of his communication
and that in short, the design of the _Minorca's_ premature sailing was that Mr
Lawrence and Miss Lucy Acton should elope--a thing not to be dreamt of--at an
hour when few were abroad, and when there was little or no chance of the news
reaching her home that Captain Acton's daughter had sailed in the _Minorca_."
Scarcely had the old gentleman pronounced these words when a footman, throwing
open the door, exclaimed: "Mr Greyquill presents his humble respects to Captain
Acton, and desires leave to speak with him." "Mr Greyquill!" cried Captain
Acton. "Mr Greyquill!" echoed the Admiral, looking with a changed face at the
footman. "Mr Greyquill!" cried Miss Acton. "Why, he may have come with news of
Lucy. Bid him step in!" The footman disappeared. "What on earth but some news of
my daughter can bring Greyquill here at this hour?" said Captain Acton. The
Admiral looked deaf, and continued to stare at the door, which in a few moments
was again flung open, and Mr Greyquill entered. CHAPTER IX

MR GREYQUILL'S VISIT

Mr Greyquill entered the room by two paces, and placing his hand upon the spot
where he supposed his heart to lie, made three separate bows to the company,
each of the "Your most humble and obedient servant" school; it was an expression
of ceremony which for mingled respect and senility should have pleased, as it no
doubt did please, Miss Acton. He was a figure striking in its way as he made
these bows, with his long, snow-white hair, his heavy white eyebrows, his long
curling nose, the purely congenital satiric leer that characterised the
formation of his thin lips; and his faded dress, which was a very good
representation of his mind, aided the impression produced by his face. Admiral
Lawrence gave him a nod which was barely a mark of recognition. Captain Acton
bowed to him in silence. Miss Acton cried out:

"Pray step in, Mr Greyquill, and be seated!" Greyquill sidled rather than walked
in and sat down on a chair removed from the others, and observing enquiry strong
in each face as those who watched him would not condescend to enquire the
purpose of his visit, but waited to hear it, he said: "I was coming out of Lower
Street this afternoon, when I heard the bell-man recite the announcement that
Miss Lucy Acton had been missing from her home this morning since between seven
and eight o'clock, and a reward of fifty guineas is offered to any one who shall
proclaim her whereabouts, or who shall help to restore her to her family." "That
is so," said Captain Acton, viewing him gravely. "Have you news of her?" cried
Miss Acton. "I wish to state, sir," said Mr Greyquill, addressing Captain Acton,
"that if I should prove instrumental, not in the restoration of Miss Lucy Acton
to her home, but in your discovering where she is, and how she got there, my
candour will be due entirely to the very great respect I entertain for the young
lady who has always had a kindly word for me, and whose character is an
extremely lovable one, and to the regret, I may say indignation, that one so
young, beautiful and rich, should fall into such unworthy hands." He glanced at
the Admiral, who returned the look with a compressed brow, whilst with his right
hand he seemed to be keeping time to an inward and secret tune with the play of
his fingers upon the knee where the leg of his breeches fell into his stocking.
"Oh, pray continue, sir! Pray continue!" cried Miss Acton in a voice that was
almost husky with the hysteric quality of her emotions. "In other words, sir,"
continued Mr Greyquill, still addressing Captain Acton, "I beg to state that if
I should be so fortunate as to help you in your trouble I desire no money
reward, nor should dream of taking any." Captain Acton merely bowed. "I have not
met with the usage," old Greyquill went on calmly, steadily exasperating Miss
Acton by a preface that was disgusting and needless whilst she thirsted for the
one essential fact, "that I certainly think I deserve from either Admiral Sir
William Lawrence, nor his son, Mr Lawrence." He spoke with so complete a neglect
of the Admiral's presence that the old gentleman might have been out of the
room. "They have no claim upon my kindness." "We shall be thankful to receive
any news of Miss Lucy Acton," said Captain Acton, with that collectedness of
manner which implies the glazing by a vigorous will of passions growing
turbulent. "Two or three days after your appointment of Mr Lawrence as master of
the _Minorca_, I chanced to be going by way of Old Friar's Road to visit some
houses belonging to me. At the bend of the road, which conceals the bridge and
Old Harbour Town I met Mr Lawrence, and we exchanged a few sentences on the
subject of the sum of three hundred pounds which he owes me. He informed me that
when you, sir, had paid him off on his return he would hand me the sum of
twenty-five guineas in part payment of his debt. We each pursued our way. When I
had gone a few yards I stopped and turned to look after him. He had disappeared
round the bend of the road, but just about the place where he and I had
conversed I saw something white. It was a letter. Thinking I had dropped it in
unconscious play of my hands during our talk, I returned and picked it up." The
old man put his hand in his pocket and pulled out the letter, which he held on
his knee, whilst he continued: "It was not addressed, as you will presently see,
but the contents which I took the liberty of reading, the letter being open and
manifestly a stray article which was anybody's property, assured me that it had
just now fallen from the pocket of Mr Lawrence, who had brought it out possibly
with his pocket-handkerchief, but who would not know of his loss by looking
behind him as the turn of the road hid it from him. I was greatly astounded by
the contents of this letter, which is in Mr Lawrence's handwriting, and somewhat
incensed by reading that he termed me an old scamp, I, who had proved his friend
at a time when friendship was valuable to him, and who have shown him every
consideration since. Will you read the letter, sir?" Mr Greyquill left his seat
and stepped across with the missive to Captain Acton. The Captain glanced at the
contents, and without reading extended the letter to the Admiral, saying: "Is
this your son's writing, sir?" The Admiral took the letter, ran his eyes over
it, and answered, returning the letter to Captain Acton: "It is." "It is a draft
or copy," said Captain Acton. "It is undated, and it is without the formal
beginning of My dear, etc." He then read slowly and deliberately, the
handwriting being good and clear:

"I should have answered your letter sooner but I have been so      worried by
debts and difficulties, by compulsory idleness and the      absolute
impossibility of finding anything congenial to do, that      I have had no
spirit to communicate with you or anybody else. But      the wheel of fortune
which has depressed me to the very bottom,      has by another revolution,
raised me. I must tell you that I am      very heavily in debt. Even in this
antiquated hole I owe an old      scamp, named Greyquill, three hundred pounds,
of which I have      only had two hundred. I am in debt, some of them debts of
honour,      to several men, a few of whom I have spoken of in my time as
brother-officers, and one of them quite recently threatened me      with the
law. In addition, I owe a lot to various tradespeople      in London and
elsewhere. So that my personal liberty hangs by a      hair, and at any moment I
may find myself clapped on the shoulder,      arrested for debt, and flung into
gaol, there to languish possibly      for the remainder of my days, for it is
quite certain that my      father cannot, even if he would, come to my help. His
private      means are very small, and his pension inconsiderable, and though
he has behaved very well in maintaining me since I quitted the      Service, and
allowed me to use his cottage as a home, he is a man      whose morality is high
and severe, and he is the last person to      part with a farthing in discharge
of debts which he regards as      dishonourable. "I had made up my mind to ship
before the mast in a vessel bound      to America, where I should have left her,
and sought my fortune      in a new country; when through the great kindness
that a rich      gentleman in this district has for my father, I was offered the
command of a barque called the _Minorca_, a handsome little vessel      of about
five hundred tons, on terms which a Merchant shipmaster      would consider
liberal, but which to one, in the face of what      I owe, are as a penny piece
in the value of a guinea. Captain      Acton (R.N., retired)--you may have met
him--is the owner of the      two little ships. He lives in a beautiful old
house, planted in      the midst of a fine prospect of gardens and orchards. He
has one      child, a daughter, a young creature so beautiful that the instant
I saw her I irrecoverably lost my heart to her. I offered her      marriage; she
rejected me, probably because she had been told that      I was a drinker and a
gambler. I am, nevertheless, determined to      possess her as my wife, and with
that view have promptly conceived      a stratagem or plot which should either
end in enabling me to pay      off all my debts and live at peace in this
country, or be hanged      as a pirate." The Admiral, who had heretofore
discovered no signs of life, started in his chair and clenched his fist. "It is
you, my dear Dick, and old companion, mess-mate and      friend, with whom I
have enjoyed many a jaunt to which I could      never recur without passionately
lamenting the days that are no      more, who will help me in this desperate
undertaking. I propose      to navigate the vessel, not to Kingston, Jamaica, to
which port      she ought to be bound, but to the port in which you live, Rio de
Janeiro. By a ruse which must prove successful, I think, I shall      inveigle
Miss Lucy Acton on board, and everything being ready,      shall make sail
immediately after she is carefully confined in      my cabin. I have had a cabin
set apart for my own use, which I      represented to Captain Acton was to serve
as a sick-bay. This      drama has been well rehearsed. When far out at sea the
crew will      be summoned aft. I shall read some pretended sealed orders from
Captain Acton, requiring me to carry the ship to Rio de Janeiro,      and to
sell her, if possible, after discharging the mate and      crew, who will
receive from Captain Acton, on application, treble      the amount of their
wages they would have got for sailing the      vessel to Kingston. I shall also
take care to destroy the ship's      papers. And my story will be that I was
overhauled by an American      cruiser, who sent an officer on board. He
examined the box of      papers and took it away to show to his Captain, as he
considered      them unsatisfactory. The cruiser then braced her main top-sail
yard to the wind and sailed away with the box of papers. On my      arrival, we
will consult together as to the safest course to be      adopted for the sale of
the ship and cargo, by which time I have      no doubt the lady will have agreed
to marry me either for love,      or because she has been placed in a situation
which must render      marriage imperative to her in the name of honour. With
the money      which I shall make, thanks to you, through this business, I will
pay off all my debts in England, and Lucy Acton being my wife, or      promising
me her hand, I may count with absolute certainty upon      the forgiveness of
her father, who is not likely to abandon his      only child for a behaviour
that was no fault of hers, and the rest      must be left to time. "I think our
man to help us for a liberal commission will be your      friend, José Zamovano
Y Villa. His scrupulosity in financial      matters is not likely to prove a
great hindrance, eh, Dick? I      shall follow this letter soon after the ship
that takes it, so      that you will not have long to wait before seeing me
after you      have read it." This letter was unsigned. It was manifestly a
rough draft of the posted letter which had been amplified before it was sent.
Captain Acton's hand dropped with it on to his knee. He exclaimed:

"That is the end--there is no name." On which Miss Acton screamed out: "What did
I say? Are not my words true? To think of our beloved Lucy imprisoned in a ship!
Sailed away with, never to be seen more perhaps, in the hands of--of--oh, what
is to be done? What is to be done?" The Admiral started from his chair to his
feet. His face was full of blood, his hands were uplifted, and his fingers
tightly locked. He cried, in a voice that was like mimic thunder in its power,
and breaks, and falls:

"I will hire a vessel and chase him; I will pursue him, though he should lead me
to the very gates of Hell. Oh, my precious God! I, who have ever striven to act
my part well in the service of my country! I, who have ever struggled to live an
honourable and a stainless life as a gentleman and a sailor! Why am I
dishonoured and degraded by the possession of such a son?" He unclasped his
hands and buried his purple face, and stood rocking and reeling as though he
were about to fall in a fit, and sobbed twice or thrice with that dreadful note
of grief in his dry-eyed agony, which makes the fearlessness of manhood in
suffering one of the most pitiful, painful and pathetic of spectacles. Captain
Acton laid his hand on the Admiral's shoulder. "Bear up!" he said gently.
"Presently we will discuss the matter calmly. God is good, and this blow may not
prove nearly so heavy as we now think it." With kindly pressure he obliged the
old seaman to resume his seat, and then turned with something of fierceness upon
old Greyquill. "May I ask," said he, flourishing the letter, "how it is that
you, sir, being fully admitted by the perusal of this document into the base
plot Mr Lawrence was hatching, should have chosen to keep the intention to
yourself, when by the revelation of this letter you could have put it out of Mr
Lawrence's power to carry off my child." Mr Greyquill stood up. His eyes had a
peculiar light in them, a faint flush was painted on each cheek, and seemed to
make whiter yet the whiteness of his brows and his hair. "Sir," he answered, "I
am much sneered at in this town and district. I am very well aware that few have
a kind word for me. If you, sir, or Admiral Lawrence condescend to bestow a nod
upon me as I respectfully pass you in the street, it has the character of the
recognition with which you would honour something you disdain, which you are
compelled to see, and by that nod acknowledge the existence of. Your beautiful
daughter, Miss Lucy, on the other hand, has always been gracious and kind to me.
In the light and sweetness of her presence I am sensible of the warmth and glow
which make me feel that I am human and a man. There is no office I would not
discharge to oblige her. I make money by lending it, but I would give her money
--much if she needed it, for the delight I take in her sympathetic, tender and
generous nature. When I read the letter you hold, sir, I did not believe that Mr
Lawrence would have the power or the art to carry out his scheme of kidnapping
your daughter, and I was only assured that his base plot, as you term it, had
proved triumphant by the calling of the bell-man, and by the letterpress on the
placards which they are pasting about the place. Then I was determined that you
should be instantly apprised through the medium of Mr Lawrence's own letter of
what had become of your daughter. Otherwise, sir, the loss of your ship by an
act of piracy must be nothing to me. Mr Lawrence promises in his letter that he
will repay all his creditors, of which I am one to the extent of three hundred
pounds. And as I am of opinion that this is his honest intention in order to
enable him to dwell in England at liberty, I resolved to keep my own counsel and
to await the receipt of my money." Thus speaking he picked up his hat from the
floor, bowed to Captain Acton and to Miss Acton, and left the room without
noticing the Admiral. "What a wicked, dreadful old man!" exclaimed Miss Acton,
"to preserve such a hideous secret, and to be willing to wait for payment of his
three hundred pounds out of another man's robbery. What is to be done? What will
you do, brother? Our Lucy must be rescued. Is it too late? She was here in this
house this morning at seven o'clock. The ship cannot be far off. Cannot she be
reached?" Captain Acton, holding the Greyquill letter in his hand, stepped to a
bell rope and pulled it. The hue of his face was ashen, the expression cold and
severe: such a face as he would carry had he to confront a crowd of armed
mutineers. "What is to be done? What is to be done?" cried Miss Acton. "What is
to be done?" exclaimed the Admiral, starting from a silence in which his form
was motionless, though his lips might have been seen moving whilst his eyes were
fastened upon the carpet. "This is to be done, madam. I will commute my pension.
I will mortgage my household furniture. I will get together every penny that is
to be had by realisation of what I possess. I will post to London to-morrow." He
pulled out a great gold watch and surveyed it for two or three breathless
moments, "and in the river seek and assuredly find a sharp-stemmed vessel which
shall convey me to Rio de Janeiro, and I shall be in that spot, if God but grant
me wind enough, to greet the arrival of that villain, my son, to secure the
person of your daughter, and return her in safety--that I will do!--that I will
do!" And the poor old fellow stood up snapping his fingers whilst he flourished
his arms at Captain Acton and his sister, and made several mouths in
inarticulate phrase. A footman entered. "Send George at once," said Captain
Acton, "with the gig as fast as the mare can trot to Captain Weaver. He must
call at his house first--the Paragon out of Lower Street. If not at home, he
must find out where he is, and drive him back here with express orders from me
that I must see him without loss of an instant's time." The footman ran out.
Miss Acton looked with eager, tearful expectation at her brother, who addressing
the Admiral, exclaimed:

"You are a sailor, sir, and so am I, and 'tis natural that we should both light
upon the same scheme. But there is not the slightest occasion for you to
sacrifice a farthing of your property, nor to post to London to-morrow to find a
ship, some little schooner or other swift enough to enable you to be at Rio when
the _Minorca_ arrives. Such a ship," he said, his face brightening a little with
an expression of triumph, "I possess in the _Aurora_. She has discharged her
lading. She can be ballasted at once, and if a crew can be assembled by this
time to-morrow evening, I may be far down Channel in such pursuit as must make
the barque's chances of escape hopeless, unless indeed she eludes me in the
night, or in thick weather, in which case I shall thrash on and be at Rio a week
before she enters the Harbour." "The _Aurora_," cried the Admiral with a sudden
elation, which might have passed as the flare-up of a man in his cups who has
sat for a while in maudlin dejection. "By heavens, Acton, you have hit it! where
should I find such a vessel for this purpose? Why, aboard of her in a few days
you would be alongside the _Minorca_, if you are fair in the scent of the trail
of her wake, and wanting that, why, your noble and beautiful little clipper will
have been at Rio a fortnight before the barque heaves in sight. May I accompany
you?--but you must allow me to do so. You must permit me to be your companion,
for, by God, Captain Acton, it is for you to recover your daughter and your
property, but it is for me to greet that malefactor, my son." He smote his thigh
hard with the palm of his hand. The noise was like the report of a pistol. He
was wont to strike himself thus in the days of his command when angered, or when
he expressed a purpose, which he intended to fulfil though it meant life or
death. "Certainly, Sir William," said Captain Acton. "I shall rejoice to have
you with me." "Good, good!" cried the old fellow, and rolling across to his
friend, he grasped him by the hand, and held on, looking at his friend with a
face a-work with emotion, with an expression indeed that seemed perilously close
to further dry sobs. "But," said Captain Acton, who was perhaps helped to a
display of comparative composure of mind by the Admiral's reception of the news,
"though if possible we shall sail to-morrow evening or the following day in
pursuit, my opinion is, sir, that even if Mr Lawrence were left to his own
shifts he would never be able to compass his undertaking. First of all, he has a
highly respectable man, who has proved a good servant to me, to deal with in his
mate. Will Mr Eagle permit him to carry the _Minorca_ to Rio? Will the crew have
nothing to say? What will be thought by all hands when it gets about that my
daughter is on board, a prisoner in confinement in the cabin? And is my daughter
so enamoured of Mr Lawrence that because he has placed her in a highly equivocal
situation she will be willing to marry him, or to have anything to say to him on
their arrival at Rio?" "Oh no, oh no!" interposed Miss Acton; "she would not be
our Lucy if she did." "My conviction is," continued the Captain, "that when
Eagle and the crew get scent of Mr Lawrence's intentions, and understand the
blackguardly act he has been guilty of in trepanning my daughter, they will turn
upon him and either do him some serious mischief or lock him up, and under
Eagle, proceed direct to Kingston, or if they have not gone far, return to Old
Harbour." "That's what will happen!" cried Miss Acton. "Would our sailors permit
a stranger like Mr Lawrence to steal your daughter and your ship and what is in
her, and be dismissed from your service by him at Rio Janeiro with promises of
your paying them treble wages when they got home, and applied to you? Oh no, no,
no!" "And Mr Lawrence," continued Captain Acton, speaking in a cool voice that
was almost sarcastic, "little understands the habits and customs of the Merchant
Service when he supposes that owners give their shipmasters sealed orders to be
opened and read to the crew in mid-ocean, or when they are well away from their
port of departure. This is the practice of our Service, sir, and Mr Lawrence as
a Naval man who is ignorant of the habits and discipline of the Merchant ship
greatly errs in supposing that the crew will be misled by any such device."
"Suppose," said Miss Acton, "that a French man-o'-war should capture you, and
make you prisoners, what is to become of Lucy? "We must defy every chance in our
determination to recover my child," answered her brother. "Ay, that must be,"
exclaimed the Admiral, "even though Heaven should rain French men-of-war." An
hour passed from the time the message was sent before Captain Weaver arrived.
Captain Acton desired to see the skipper alone, out of delicacy to Sir William,
of whose son it would be impossible to speak without causing the poor old
gentleman distress more or less acute. The Admiral found out Captain Acton's
well-bred and considerate wish in the one or two hints he dropped, but stuck
manfully to his chair nevertheless, and when Captain Weaver was announced, he
still remained one of the three occupants of the room. The skipper entered, red,
nervous, with a countenance slightly lifted by astonishment. Of course he knew
that Miss Lucy Acton had been missing since the morning, but that was all he did
know. "Walk in, Captain Weaver. Pray, take that chair," said Captain Acton. "I
can ask you no questions until I make you acquainted with what has happened."
"Then Miss Lucy hasn't been found, sir," said the Captain. "She has been
kidnapped by Mr Lawrence," answered Captain Acton. "She left this house early
this morning to take one of those fresh morning-walks which she enjoys, and was
seen to receive a letter from the hunchback steward of the _Minorca_. She must
have immediately hastened on board the barque, urged by some statement which I
am disposed to agree with my sister Miss Acton, was forged or manufactured by Mr
Lawrence." "My son, Captain Weaver, my son!" broke in the Admiral tremulously.
"The best of fathers have known your lot, sir," answered Captain Weaver. "There
is no need to go to the Old Testament to learn that." "The long and short of it
is, Captain Weaver," said Captain Acton, "Mr Lawrence having lured my daughter
on board the vessel he commands through some ruse which I am unable to explain,
made sail at once with the lady on board, not for Kingston, Jamaica, but for Rio
Janeiro, where he proposes to discharge the mate and crew after reading to them
a forged promise by me that their wages to Kingston shall be trebled on their
return and on their application to me. He also proposes to sell the ship and
cargo, and he is manifestly acquainted with some scoundrel out at Rio, who, in
spite of such vigilance as the officials of Rio may be in the habit of
exercising, will undoubtedly discover a market, though not necessarily at Rio."
"Rascally things can be done at sea, sir," said Captain Weaver, whose face,
instead of gaining in the look of amazement that had coloured it on his
entrance, was slowly settling as Captain Acton proceeded into an expression of
hard-a-weather composure. With such a look perhaps a thoroughbred, stout-hearted
British sailor would view the calamity or catastrophe that was pressing strong
men down upon their knees in devotion, and causing tears of terror to flow from
the eyes of others. "Oh, Captain Weaver, there are many wicked people at sea!"
cried Miss Acton. "Think of the pirates! Think of the slavers! My poor, poor
niece!" "Now, sir," continued Captain Acton, "it is not the intention of Sir
William Lawrence or myself to suffer my daughter to be kidnapped by an act of
treachery which I forbear to say more about in the presence of my honourable and
gallant old friend, Admiral Lawrence." "Oh, Acton," exclaimed the Admiral,
"nothing that you can say could approach what I feel, could express what I
suffer." "My intention is," Captain Acton went on, "to fit out the _Aurora_ at
once for a chase. We know where the _Minorca_ is bound to. Mr Lawrence's course
must necessarily be yours. Your vessel can sail two feet to his one. If we are
unfortunate enough to miss him on the high seas, we shall be at Rio a week or a
fortnight before the _Minorca_ arrives, to receive him. When can you get your
ship ready for sea?" Captain Weaver reflected. "To-day, sir," he said, "is
Toosday. I'll engage to be under way by Saturday." "Not before?" cried Miss
Acton, an exclamation which Captain Weaver received with a faint smile. "That
will be giving the _Minorca_ long odds, won't it?" said Captain Acton. "No, sir.
If we took a fortnight to fit the clipper for sea, we should overhaul the
_Minorca_ or be ahead of her long before she heaves her port into sight."
"What's the distance to Rio, Captain Weaver?" asked the Admiral. "All five
thousand miles, sir." "What would you call the _Aurora's_ average?" enquired
Captain Acton. "I'll put it low to make sure," responded Captain Weaver, "and
call it a hundred and twenty-five miles a day, though a hundred and fifty would
be nearer the mark." The Admiral might have been observed to be calculating by
the movement of his lips. "It will be a run, then," said he, "of about forty
days." "At the utmost," said Captain Weaver, "and the _Minorca_ will want at
least sixty." "What have you to do," said Captain Acton, "that we should wait
until Saturday?" Here the conversation was stayed for a minute or two by the
entrance of a footman with a tray of sandwiches and cakes, and ale for Captain
Weaver, and wine, and the like. "Why," answered Captain Weaver, who had had time
to think, "the _Aurora's_ copper wants cleaning badly. We shall need to take in
more ballast. There are the sails to bend and a lot to be seen to aloft; stores
to be shipped, and dozens of other matters to be attended to, gentlemen. We're
not a Naval dockyard down on the wharves. We can't rig out a dismantled frigate
and fill her with men with all her artillery in place and send her to sea in
twenty-four hours, and there may be some little difficulty as to a few of the
crew. Two or three of them who are married will want a longer spell ashore than
this time gives them. If so, and I reckon upon it, I shall need others." "You
think a detention of four days will signify nothing in our certainty of
overhauling the _Minorca_, or getting to Rio in advance of her?" said Captain
Acton. "I know the _Aurora_, sir. No highwayman could know his blood-mare which
has galloped him again and again clear of the noose of the gibbet better than I
know your Baltimore clipper. She'll look up to windward, or hold her course when
the _Minorca_ is falling points off. She was built to sail, madam, and she do
sail. There is nothing in the King's service with her legs. I allow she was born
to be a slaver." "She looks swift even as she lies at rest," said Miss Acton.
"You are not armed, I think," said the Admiral, "whilst the _Minorca_ carries
some carronades and a stand of small arms in her cabin. Mr Lawrence is a
fighting man, and his situation is one of desperation and"--his voice sank as he
added--"piracy." "I do not propose to go armed," said Captain Acton. "Such
armament as the _Aurora_ of three hundred and ninety tons could carry, and not
perhaps without injury to her speed, would prove of little good against an enemy
to whom we could only show our heels, whilst as to the _Minorca_ if we
overhauled her we should hail her to back her topsail, and if she declined we
should hold her in sight." "We might lose her in thick weather," said the
Admiral. "Then, sir, our policy will be to thrash on for Rio." "You are quite
right," said Captain Weaver. "Guns would only be in our way, and sarve to check
the beauty, which we don't want." "Can you explain, Captain Weaver," interrupted
Miss Acton, whose irrelevancy was feminine, and whose question was based on her
desire to hear something that she could understand, for the talk now as it ran
was beyond her--"how it was that Miss Lucy Acton, who is one of the best known
ladies who reside in these parts, should pass along the wharves and go on board
the _Minorca_ to be made a prisoner of and sailed away with, without anybody
seeing her--without anybody being able to say that he saw a young female pass
along? Even if he could describe her dress without knowing who she was, we
should have been able to conclude that Mr Lawrence had lured her on board: for
we never could have supposed that she would have gone to him without his being
guilty of some base stratagem to inveigle her." "I can make no other answer than
this, ma'am," said Captain Weaver. "Suppose she was down on the wharves between
half-past seven and eight. Most of the labourers would have been away
breakfasting. The few that hung about might not have taken any notice of her, or
if one or two did, then they are people we didn't come across to question. Most
of the men on board the ships in the Harbour would be in their foc'sles
breakfasting and smoking and the like, and those that were on deck, and few
enough at that hour, might be thinking of other things than people who were
passing by. I don't see how else Miss Lucy Acton's not being seen or noticed can
be accounted for." "No doubt you are right," said Captain Acton. "I see no other
solution to the puzzle, and a puzzle it is, for," said he, "it is quite certain
that my daughter was down on the wharves and was entrapped this morning, which
explains the reason of Mr Lawrence's hurried sailing." "I beg your pardon,
gentlemen," said Captain Weaver very humbly and respectfully, "both your honours
are sea-faring men who've seen more of the sea than my larnedest notions could
heave into sight to me, but I should like to say this: if our ship is made out
aboard the _Minorca_ supposing we overhaul her, is she likely to back her
topsail to our hail? Mr Lawrence, we may guess, is a detarmined man, he'll know
that you've got the scent of him, and I allow that he'll keep all on with his
ship, even if there should be such a breeze as would sarve him to run her under
water." "We must hoist foreign colours," said the Admiral quickly and
decisively. "American, I should think; there are many Yankees afloat like the
_Aurora_." "Still begging of your honours' pardon," said Captain Weaver,
"suppose the _Minorca_ do back her topsail and we launch our boat; Mr Lawrence
makes out his father and Captain Acton in the starn sheets. Will he stay to
receive ye? Won't he fill on his topsail and be off?" "You forget," said Captain
Acton, "that Mr Eagle and my crew are on board, and they will have something to
say in response to Mr Lawrence's orders." "Your honours," said Captain Weaver,
"I am greatly mistaken if Mr Lawrence don't prove one of the hardest and most
difficult skippers that ever took command of a ship. He'll get his way, though
it should come to his sending balls to do it through the brains of those who try
to stop him." "If the _Minorca_ won't heave-to after catching sight of us in the
boat," said Captain Acton, "we must return to the _Aurora_ and follow her. Then,
as I have said, we must head under a full press for Rio." "But will Mr Lawrence
make for Rio," said Captain Weaver, "when he understands by the _Aurora_ chasing
that you have found out his port of destination?" "Something at sea must be left
to chance," said Captain Acton a little impatiently. "Since you cannot be ready
before Saturday Sir William and I will have time to weigh your conjectures and
views. I shall be down early to-morrow morning, and hope to find that you have
made a fresh and vigorous start in getting the vessel ready for sea." CHAPTER X

MR LAWRENCE AND MR EAGLE

It was a May morning in the English Channel. Over the soft blue of the sky some
large clouds as yellow and tender for the eye to dwell upon as the spume of the
sea from the receding breaker, with glories in their brows and glories in their
skirts, were sailing slowly and stately on the mild breeze that blew sweet with
mingled odours of land and brine from the coast of Old England. There was weight
enough in the wind to grace the lines of streaming waters as they ran with
feathers of foam, and on this wide plain, with the shores of Britain dwelling in
a faint, violet shadow upon the starboard horizon north, but one ship was
visible and scarce to be wondered at! War had swept the narrow seas, and for
hours in the day little more hove into view whether from the cliffs of our
country or from those of the enemy opposite, than sometimes a large convoy
glimmering cloud-like as it floated, some compact, some scattered, under the
protection of men-of-war up Channel to London town or to other ports, or down
Channel to their several destinations in various parts of the globe. Or it might
be a cloud of steam-like smoke far off indicating an action between single
ships. An Englishman had hailed a Frenchman to strike. The Frenchman had
answered with a broadside, and before the sun sets the Englishman with her fore-
topmast and mizzen topgallant mast gone is making for Plymouth with a prize in
tow. Or again it will be a smuggling lugger chased by a Revenue cutter with a
flash of the sea-snow at her stem and the blaze of a long gun on the forecastle.
The ship in sight carried in those days a very unfamiliar rig. She was what is
well known now as a barque. She was under all plain sail and showed many wings,
and she lifted sails which Lord St Vincent when Captain Jervis was the first to
introduce into the Navy, and Merchantmen, always quicker than Navy ships to
adopt improvements or changes for the good, were using them when ships of the
State, at least a good many of them, were still satisfied with the truck above
the topgallant yard. This vessel was the _Minorca_, which, as we know, had left
Old Harbour shortly after eight o'clock that morning, and now she had shrunk the
Mother Country into a delicate vision, and slightly leaning from the wind was
sliding with a steady keel through the water which beautified the copper that
shone ruddily under her weather-bow with the prisms and crystals and gems of the
ocean fountain. In spite of Admiral Lawrence's admiration of her, she would
excite laughter in this age as an example of the stump-ended fabrics which the
shipwrights of the eighteenth and the nineteenth centuries were building for
sailors. Yet many of these structures made wonderfully long voyages and kept the
seas, touching here and there to careen, for as lengthy a period as the average
life of the modern steel fabric. The _Minorca's_ length did not very greatly
exceed her beam. Her bows were round, though they fined down into keenness at
her entry under water. She had a large square stern with windows, and her
buttocks when her stern fell into the hollow, swept up as much foam as recoiled
from the plunge of her bows. Upon the weather-side of the quarterdeck of the
ship on this May morning in the English Channel Mr John Eagle, the mate of the
vessel, was walking to and fro, sometimes directing his gaze to windward,
sometimes aloft, sometimes sending it along the ship's decks at the men who were
employed on the numberless jobs which attend a sailing ship's departure from
port. High aloft, perched on the fore-topgallant yard, was the figure of a look-
out man, who was told to report anything that hove into sight and to continue to
report how the distant sail was heading. These were Mr Lawrence's instructions.
Mr Eagle looked a very mean sort of man as he walked the deck. Neither by form,
face, nor manner did he express individuality or character. The sole feature
noticeable in him was a look of sullenness, a sour, sneering, quarrelsome air
about the mouth, to be found perhaps in the curve of his thin lips. Whilst he
walked Mr Lawrence came up from the cabin through the companion-hatch, and after
standing a few moments looking about him, he stepped to the side of Mr Eagle.
The contrast between the two men was remarkable. You could scarcely have
believed that they belonged to the same nation. Mr Lawrence's tall, elegant, and
dignified figure towered above the poor, unshapely conformation of Eagle; his
handsome face wore an expression of haughtiness, distance, and reserve. Both Mr
Eagle and the boatswain, named Thomas Pledge, who acted as second mate, and the
rest of the crew had already discovered that their captain perfectly well
understood and remembered that he had been an officer in the Royal Navy, a
sailor of His Majesty the King, that comparatively brief as his story was it was
brilliant with heroic incident and adventure, and that instead of being greatly
obliged to Captain Acton for this command, he considered that he was acting with
a very uncommon degree of condescension in taking charge of a merchant vessel,
unless indeed she was a prize to his man-o'-war. "There is nothing in sight,
sir," he exclaimed, as he stood beside Mr Eagle, who had come to a halt on the
approach of the other. "You will please see that a sharp look-out is kept for
any sort of sail that may heave into view; and I trust to you to keep a sharp
look-out yourself. When fairly clear of the Scillies, I may breathe with some
ease." "So far nothing's hove into sight, sir," said Mr Eagle. "We have a pretty
little breeze blowing," said Mr Lawrence, going to the side and looking over,
"and we are under all plain sail. The wind's abeam and her speed is under six.
Can she walk in strong weather?" "She's done nine, sir, in my experience of
her," answered Mr Eagle. "But it took half a gale of wind on the quarter to make
her do it." Mr Lawrence came from the ship's side, and said: "Pray continue your
walk. I have something of importance to communicate to you," and he looked down
into Mr Eagle's face with a curiously mingled expression of contempt,
haughtiness and superiority. "It is not customary, I believe," he said, "in the
Merchant Service for shipmasters to take their mates into their confidence. It
is necessary, however, that I should communicate one or two facts to you in
connection with this voyage. I presume you are not aware that Miss Lucy Acton is
on board this ship?" "I saw her come over the side, sir, but didn't know she had
stopped," said the mate, with an expression which might have passed for
incredulity in the sour, congenital curl of his lips. "She remained on board,
and is in my cabin, and I shall occupy the cabin which was fitted up professedly
for a sick-bay." "Miss Lucy Acton aboard this ship!" cried the mate, giving way
to his amazement. "Well, I _am_ truly astonished." "I don't care a damn about
your astonishment, Mr Eagle!" exclaimed Mr Lawrence with haughty severity. "I
want you to understand that Miss Lucy Acton is on board this ship, and I desire
that you will regulate your behaviour by thoroughly understanding the facts
which I am going to do you the honour to impart." Mr John Eagle made no answer.
"I first of all wish you to understand," continued Mr Lawrence, "that Miss Acton
and I are in love with each other. We desire to be married. Captain Acton
objects on the grounds of what I am forced to term my poverty; and certainly
this quarter-deck would not know my tread if I were not poor. At the same time
the greatest esteem and friendship exists between Captain Acton and myself, and
his regard for me is sufficiently expressed by his placing me in command here.
Do you follow me, sir?" "I do, sir." "Miss Acton and I agreed to elope. We found
our opportunity in this vessel. This could only be done by contriving what the
French call a ruse. It was to be assumed that her father had fallen ill in this
ship whilst inspecting her early this morning, and the stratagem was to be
carried out by his dictating a letter to me begging his daughter to come at once
to the vessel. This she did, and she is now below. Do you understand me, Mr
Eagle?" "Oh yes, sir, I am a-following of you," answered the mate, with a face
crippled in meaning by astonishment and by other sensations excited by this
extraordinary story. "Now," continued Mr Lawrence, still preserving his lofty,
superior, rather over-bearing manner, as though he would heave Mr John Eagle
overboard by scruff and breech if the fellow durst utter a syllable of offence,
"it is arranged by Miss Acton and myself that she should feign that I have
kidnapped her--sailed away with her, in short, against her will. This attitude
we preconcerted, to rescue her from the accusation of having eloped, which might
greatly prejudice her in the eyes of her father, and injure her future and
fortune. When, therefore, you meet her, which you doubtless will, she will
probably with the utmost passion, nay, even with tears in her eyes, declare that
she has been torn from her home by a base artifice. And you'll understand, Mr
Eagle, that her sighs, her statements, and her tears are merely tricks and parts
of a play which has been carefully prearranged between the lady and myself. Do
you understand, sir?" he added, looking stormily at his mean little companion
from the altitude of his elegant and commanding figure. "Why, yes, sir, course I
do. But I never should ha' thought it. Why of all the young ladies----"

"I'm not asking you for any opinion, nor will any view that you can take concern
me. You have the facts, and you will repeat them to the crew, to some of whom
she may probably appeal, as indeed I have advised, that her pretended situation
may seem the more real, and Captain Acton by such evidence be more fully
convinced. You and the crew will know what to think. It is simply a love affair
and my own and the lady's business essentially," and he stopped in his
quarterdeck walk, causing his companion to stop, and flamed threats from a pair
of eyes as imperious as ever glared command upon another. Mr Eagle looked as
obedient as a quartermaster to instructions sternly delivered by a flogging
captain. "I have another matter to talk to you about," Mr Lawrence proceeded,
"and on this head I have to request without the smallest qualification of what
you must regard as my orders that you will preserve silence." "I beg pardon,"
interrupted Mr Eagle, "but before you go on I should like to say that I am only
mate of this ship and take no interest lyin' outside the sphere of my duties
that don't consarn me." "What I have to say," said Mr Lawrence, "will concern
you--at least I think so. It will concern you very much indeed. Yesterday,
Captain Acton placed in my hands sealed orders with strict instructions to
summon all hands and to read the document to you and the men, but on no account
to break the seal before the ship had arrived at latitude twenty degrees north,
and longitude--about--for we never can be sure of that--thirty degrees west." Mr
Eagle's figure started as he walked. He knew his course to Kingston, Jamaica as
intimately well as you know your home when crossing from over the way to it. He
ventured to stare at Mr Lawrence, who went on:

"The nature of these instructions I can only guess at from several conversations
which I have had with Captain Acton, who without being in any degree specific,
yet seemed to suffer me to read between the sentences of his conversation. And
now, sir," said Mr Lawrence with great austerity, "this is the communication you
will preserve strict silence upon until the sealed instructions are read. My
belief is--understand me: I say that the idea I have arrived at from Captain
Acton's conversation--is that I should carry this ship to a port that certainly
is not Kingston nor is it in Jamaica, though I am unable to say more, and that
he wishes this vessel to be handed over to the representative of a South
American merchant who does business in London. What the port may be I am as
curious as you undoubtedly now are to learn. I believe also that the whole of us
from captain to boy will be paid off at this port and sent to England at Captain
Acton's expense, and each man will receive treble the amount of the wages that
he would have got for his voyage to Kingston and home. All this I infer from
Captain Acton's language, and I may be violating his good faith in me in
committing even these conjectures to the strict confidence which I am sure you
will observe." Various sensations were depicted in Mr Eagle's face as he
listened. First he looked scared, then fierce by mere force of frown and
enlargement of eyes, then sceptical with his sour, sneering mouth, then
obstinate, sullen, mulish. He perfectly believed in the statement Mr Lawrence
had made. Captain Acton, the owner, was a naval officer, and so was Mr Lawrence.
They had agreed to abide in this matter of selling the ship and discharging the
crew by a custom of their Service, namely, the sealed instructions. A very short
silence followed Mr Lawrence's delivery. Mr John Eagle then said: "You'll find,
sir, that when the crew comes to larn that this voyage ain't bein' made to
Kingston, Jamaica, but to another place, they'll tarn to and refuse to work the
ship, as their agreement was for Kingston and nowhere else." "That will be
mutiny. To refuse an order aboard ship is mutiny. In the Navy we hang men for
that sort of conduct." "Well, sir," said Mr Eagle, who uttered his convictions
with the misgiving which fear of the listener excites, "my own opinion is that
it wouldn't be reckoned as mutiny. It wouldn't be justice if it was called
mutiny, and treated as mutiny. 'Taint the crew that breaks the agreement by
refusing to do something which they never shipped to undertake, but the owner
who gives 'em a job when at sea which they would have declined to hear of had
they been told of it ashore. And I'm surprised," he continued, emboldened by Mr
Lawrence's silence, "that Captain Acton, who is a gentleman born, and a man one
could sarve all his life with satisfaction to himself and employer, should get
rid of his ship and crew in such a fashion. But, perhaps, all that you say, sir,
won't be found in the instructions you are to read in latitude twenty." "I am
talking to you," said Mr Lawrence, with acid contempt, "not to gather your
opinion of Captain Acton and of such instructions as he may have given me, but
to acquaint you as an officer of this ship with such facts as I collected from
Captain Acton's conversation, which must presently become the property of the
whole crew. It seems to me, sir," he continued, looking at his mean companion in
his lofty, imperious, flaming way, "that even on the bare hint of the
possibility of such a proceeding as I have stated, you are on the side of the
crew, you advocate and express the cause of the crew, you anticipate the action
which would be ranked as mutiny, and which would certainly cost human lives,
unless, indeed, I decide upon a course of my own, by which I mean that if the
crew refuse to work this ship to the place named by Captain Acton, I would steer
to the nearest port and get rid of the whole of them and replace them by others;
and if they refused to help me to navigate the ship to the nearest place, I
would hoist a signal of distress and make my helpless situation known to the
first man-o'-war that was not French or Spanish that came along." Having driven
in his nail firmly and deeply enough (as he thought) to sustain his wild,
piratical, extravagant project, Mr Lawrence added in his commanding way, "I
hope, sir, I have said enough. Meanwhile, I must repeat my order to you to keep
a sharp look-out for ships and to see that a sharp look-out is kept. We should
be in a very serious plight if we allowed a French cruiser to cross our hawse,
and come between us and the coast of England. The Frenchmen's frigates sail
well, the _Minorca_ has a shabby pair of heels. Therefore I am for putting my
helm to port should anything show ahead, and you will be good enough to report
any sail that springs into sight." With that after a long penetrating look round
he went below, leaving Mr Eagle looking as if he was asleep with his eyes open
and dreaming. Indeed, Mr Eagle's mind was so shallow that all that he could
think of or conceive was simple even to silliness. He resumed his walk to and
fro on the quarter-deck, and every time that his face was turned forward his
eyes fastened upon Thomas Pledge, who was acting second mate besides being
boatswain and carpenter, and who just now was superintending some shipboard
business that was going on in the waist. Mr Lawrence descended the steps into
the cabin, which has already been described, with its plain sea furniture and
stand of arms, and entered the after berth which he had pretended to convert
into a sick bay. Here were two rough bunks, one on top of the other, each
containing a mattress and bolster. It was the middle berth betwixt the Captain's
and the pantry. Mr Lawrence's sea-chest, clothes, and nautical instruments were
here collected. He stepped to a shelf and took from it a tin box containing the
ship's papers, and from this box he drew out a large, portentous, heavily-sealed
envelope, whose enclosure of stout paper rendered it somewhat thick and bulky.
He looked at the address. Upon the envelope in a bold clerkly hand was written:

"To WALTER LAWRENCE, Esquire., R.N.,      in command of Captain Acton's barque-
rigged      vessel named the _Minorca_. "Secret instructions to be read to the
officers and crew of the      above said _Minorca_ by Mr Lawrence whenever the
ship shall have      arrived at twenty degrees of north latitude, and about
thirty      degrees of west longitude." He looked attentively at the seals,
which were impressed with the Acton crest. He mused for a little while over this
document manifestly thinking of other things. Though his brow was knit, his
handsome face was a-work with thought. Under that knitted brow the expression of
the idea in him came and went. There never could have been a finer study for an
artist than this tall and elegant creature, slightly bowed, his beauty lighted
up so to speak by the several colours of the moods which inspired him, and which
seemed by the occasional movement of his lips to indicate the rehearsal of a
passage that was to follow. With an impulse almost passionate as an effect of
stern resolution he replaced the tin box, walked out of the berth, and dangling
a key which he had withdrawn from his pocket, stood listening for a few moments
at the door of the berth which adjoined the one he had quitted. He listened,
then knocked, knocked again, and receiving no reply, inserted the key, turned
the handle and entered. This was the berth set aside for the Captain, though as
a matter of fact in Merchant vessels the Captain used to occupy almost
invariably the aftermost starboard berth. It was plainly, but comfortably,
furnished, the bedstead was like those ashore, and such as in former times
Spanish ships chiefly were equipped with. It had a chest of drawers and a
washstand in combination, and a table in the middle, at which sat Miss Lucy
Acton. Her hands were clasped before her and rested on the table. She shot a
swift glance under her beautiful eyelids at the incomer, then looked down upon
her hands with a gaze which for motionlessness might have been riveted, though
nothing was to be seen of her eyes under their lovely drooping clothing of lids
and lashes. She was plainly dressed in a gown whose waist was just under her
bosom. In some such a gown, or in some such attire she was wont of an early
spring or summer morning to amuse herself in the flower gardens, or to take
walks, occasionally remaining to breakfast at some poor neighbour's house. The
only conspicuous feature of her apparel was a hat lately introduced from Paris
and much affected by the fashionable ladies of London and other parts of this
country. I speak of it as a hat: it was in truth a jockey-bonnet made of lilac-
coloured silk decorated in front with a bunch of fancy flowers, and on top was a
lace veil that hung gracefully down the back. Mr Lawrence stood viewing her in
silence for a few moments, and then approaching the table so that he stood close
to her, he said in a voice of tenderness:

"Miss Acton--Lucy--my Lucy: for my Lucy you have ever been in my heart since the
day when I asked you to be my wife, and you know--but you must believe--that my
adoration of you then has not waned by a single ray of its brilliance--nay, the
flame is greater and purer and more glowing than it was in that hour in which
you refused my hand, not because you could not love me, nor because you believed
the half of what had been told you about me, but because I was in too great a
hurry. I had not given you time to find me out and love me as I believe, as I am
sure you now do. Oh, my Lucy, this act of seeming treason against you will be
forgiven. Your heart will acknowledge that violent as might seem the step I have
taken, by no other could we have been brought together, and all the artifices
and all the falsehoods I have been guilty of were, you will come to believe, the
inspiration of such a love as few men ever felt for the women of their worship."
He knelt on one knee by her side and tried to take her hand. She started from
her chair and recoiled some paces. On which he rose and stood towering in his
figure and gazing at her, but with a face whose beauty could not have been more
perfected than by the expression of the emotion of his heart. Her native blush,
which was one of the delightful features of her loveliness, had vanished: her
face was colourless, and this uncommon pallor which one would have thought could
only have visited her cheek in the day of dangerous sickness or in death,
heightened the wonder, the depth, the power of her dark eyes, whilst those lids
of her's which naturally drooped upon the loveliness they eclipsed in slumber,
were raised till the vision she might have been said to pour in soft light upon
her companion, looked unnatural and wild, the eyes of madness, the
incommunicable gaze of any one sooner than the half-veiled, love-lighted
sweetness of the orbs of Lucy Acton. "I asked you when you first came in here to
see me what you mean to do with me," she exclaimed in a voice so strained and
high, so entirely lacking in its native music that her father, had she been
unseen, would not have recognised the tones as his child's. "And I answered, I
will marry you," he replied. "That is no answer, sir," she cried. "You have
basely and cruelly stolen me from my home. I command you to return me to my
father! Is this your gratitude for his goodness to you and the affectionate
regard he has for Sir William Lawrence, who will be more shocked than even
Captain Acton by your unnatural, ignoble, treacherous conduct? Home cannot be
far, the ship has not sailed many miles. Return me at once, sir! Ships must be
in sight, any one of which will put me ashore. If you detain me, if you carry me
I know not where in the hope of my marrying you, you will drive me mad, as I
nearly am mad now," and when she spoke these words, she delivered a wild,
shrieking laugh, baring her teeth by such strenuous elongation of her lips as
left them ashen; and the tragic quality of that ringing dreadful laugh was
heightened by the absence of the faintest stroke of merriment in her features.
"You are wrong, madam," he said, with an appearance of respect, and even of
sympathy colouring the tender voice he employed. "There is no ship in sight. If
there were she would probably prove an enemy's cruiser which must end my dream
of happiness by our consignment to a French prison. You are in the hands of a
man who loves you, who adores you, who is indeed taking his chance of the gibbet
to win you. Trust in me. As my wife you shall be faithfully returned to your
father, who will not condemn an action which merely anticipates the sanction I
was looking forward to when he gave me command of this ship, and brought me by
this stroke of goodness closer to you." "You will return me," she said. "You are
not in earnest. This is a bold and awful act of treachery attempted merely to
test me. Marry you! Send me back to my father at once whilst my home is at hand,
or you will discover that instead of having won a wife, you have driven a girl
into a madhouse." Her wild look, the extraordinary change by dramatisation of
the eyes which she held in their soft brilliance fastened upon him, her raised,
painful, indescribable voice, her attitude, the hue of her face, might well have
suggested to him that her threat was no idle one, that being a young woman of
exquisite sensibility she might be so wrought by his inhuman conduct as to lose
her mind, her delicate intellect would stagger into madness under the cruel blow
he had dealt her in the name of love. "You are not likely to go mad," he said,
smiling at her, and his handsome face with that smile lighting it up might have
helped to conquer any woman, though betrayed into the imprisonment of a ship's
cabin, and sailed away with into unknown regions, who in her heart of hearts
felt towards this man as Lucy Acton did. But not in the way that Mr Lawrence had
devised was the victory to be his. "When am I to leave this ship?" she asked.
"Will you be seated?" "No, sir. When am I to leave this ship?" "You know, madam
--Miss Acton--Lucy--_my_ Lucy--that I am a man of broken fortunes. I have
struggled hard to retrieve the past, but the world is full, and I have been
unable to find room in it. You came in my way. I adored your beauty, and
worshipped you for your character. You would not accept my hand, but I felt in
my secret soul that I was not indifferent to you--nay, that if I could advance
higher claims than those of a broken lieutenant and a man with the reputation of
being a gambler and a drunkard, you would have listened to me, you would have
consented. Nor would your father have objected, for he loves our service, and
his partiality for Sir William would have helped me. I determined to win you, no
matter the machinery I might set in motion. I was determined to escape the
horrible trouble of bankruptcy, and the intolerable menace of a debtor's gaol,
by carrying this ship to a port and there selling her and her cargo through the
agency of a man who is known to me, and with the money thus got, I mean to pay
off all my creditors in England, and return with you as my wife, assured of
Captain Acton's forgiveness for your sake, and equally assured of his approval,
as it is my intention to hoist the flag of honour as high as my father has
mastheaded it, to be a gentleman, to live as a gentleman, and to be deemed by
the part I hope to play in the drama of life, worthy of being the husband of
Lucy Acton, and the son-in-law of her gallant, generous, noble-hearted father."
She listened to him with the immobility of a ship's figurehead. No astonishment
at his extraordinary revelation of intention varied the expression of her face
which remained as it was when she shrank from him. Truly a wonderful face, the
face of an actress of supreme genius, the face of the inheretrix of the
surprising, most excellent art of her mother, the famous Kitty O'Hara. Still did
she keep bare her beautiful teeth, still did the tension through the elongation
of her sweet lips hold them bloodless, her eyes had lost in their expression
their lovely quality of brooding. They stared, and the stare was that of
madness. Her colour was gone. Apparently this delicate, fascinating, lovable,
gentle girl, possessed powers of will and intellect which dominated Nature
herself in her; and even as it is known of some, that they have been capable of
arresting the pulsation of their heart and yet live, so obviously in this lady
was an influence, a passion, a very wizardry of determination, which suffered
her to drive the blood from her cheek, to narrow the eyelid till the eye had
lost its familiar seeking and dwelling look, till the mouth took the form that
was to convey the intention of the artist. Her only reply to his speech was (as
though she had not attended to his meaning), "Are you going to keep me a
prisoner in this cabin?" "For a day or two only, madam," he answered, with his
face flushed with disappointment, for he had hoped his candour would have
produced a very different effect. "But I may tell you frankly that Mr Eagle and
the crew know that you are on board, and I should have played my part ill had I
not provided that nothing you can say, no entreaties that you can make, will
persuade them that your elopement is not voluntary." "Oh, sir, I had never
thought you a villain!" "You shall never find me one!" he cried with
impetuosity. "But I am to win you, and will you tell me the poet or the
philosopher who has ever spoken of the strategies employed in love as villainy?"
She continued to stare at him. Her figure still seemed to shrink as though in
her first recoil when he tried to take her hand. Her face then suddenly
underwent a change, her mouth relaxed what in homely features might have been
called its wild grin; she frowned; her eyes took an unsettled look. There was
something in her countenance that could hardly have failed to arrest the
attention of any one who had a tolerable acquaintance with the insane. Mr
Lawrence seemed to see nothing but Lucy Acton in her beauty. "You have stolen me
from my home, sir," she exclaimed in a piteous, almost whining voice, "and I am
without clothes except the dress that I am wearing, and they will soon be in
rags, which will flutter if I begin to dance." "I am thankful to hear you speak
of dancing. If ever your clothes should become rags and flutter to the measures
of your feet, your beauty will still make them a finer garment, at least in my
sight, than the apparel of royalty in state. But you shall not want for
clothes," he said, speaking in his gentlest voice, which, as he held command
over fine vocal powers that rendered him at the piano, or at any other
instrument, a sweet and engaging and manly singer, would have been found
soothing by any ear that had not Lucy Acton's to hear with. "Your dress will
last you till our arrival, and then you shall have plenty; whatever your choice
selects you may already call your own." She delivered the same wild, screaming
laugh which had before filled the cabin with its insane music, and said,
dropping her note into one of plaintiveness, whilst she extended her skirt with
both hands as though she was about to make a step or two in a dance: "Think of
poor Lucy Acton in rags! Think of the lady who was notable, before a liar and a
rogue stole her from her father, for her fine dresses and modish hats and
bonnets; oh, think of her"--she paused to sigh deeply--"in rags, a prisoner in a
ship owned by her father, who would kill the wretch that tore her from his
side!" And thus speaking she turned to the bulkhead, and putting her arm against
it buried her face in her sleeve, and fell to sobbing so piteously that you
would have thought her poor little heart was broken. CHAPTER XI

PRINCESS TATTERS

Mr Lawrence approached the figure of the young lady sobbing against the
bulkhead, and placed his hand lightly upon her shoulder. She shook him off with
a passionate convulsion of her whole form, which was full of disgust, aversion,
and contemptuous wrath. It was a masterpiece of movement, eloquent in the
highest possible degree of what she chose him to believe was in her mind. Her
mother, Mrs Kitty O'Hara, had been famous for her artful strokes in this way. No
actress surpassed her, and few were the equals of Mrs O'Hara in the remarkable
gift of personification of passion by action. Mr Lawrence drew back a step.
"Loving you as I do," he exclaimed softly, "loving me as I know you do, my
dearest girl, my sweet mistress, the sole star of my desire, how must it grieve
me to see you weeping, how much more that I am to think those tears flow through
me? But I have faith in time, in the unconquerable quality of my love, and in
the assurance of my soul, for though I have descended to artifice to enable me
to win you, pure gem of your sex as you are, you do not despise me for my
struggle. You recognise and approve an effort which has cost me many little
pangs; for, dearest madam, my sweetest Lucy, 'tis all for love, and the world
would be lost for me if you denied me, if I did not win you." She stayed her
sobbing to exclaim in the high, strained notes she had before spoken in: "Send
me home, sir! send me back to my father! There are ships about. You speak
falsely if you say there are no ships. We are still near my home. Do as I say
before you drive me mad!" She rounded from the bulkhead as she pronounced these
words. Her eyes seemed to be on fire; her cheeks glowed. Again she bared her
teeth in her wild, insane grin. She appeared transformed. He knew that certain
violent and heart-changing passions and emotions could so work in a beautiful
face as to make it look repulsive and devilish, such as jealousy or criminal
insult, but he never could have believed of Lucy Acton that her loveliness could
undergo the amazing transformation he witnessed; for he did not think to recall
that her mother had been a great actress, and that this girl might have
inherited perhaps the finest side of her genius. "There is no ship, I assure
you, madam. They have my instructions on deck to keep clear of any sail that
heaves into sight, because I am not the man to allow my dream of happiness to be
dissolved by a Frenchman's capture of this vessel. And what must we expect to
find in these narrow waters but the ships of the enemy intent upon easy
captures, bloodless prizes such as the _Minorca_ would make?" For answer she
threw herself down upon the deck. She fell as though in a swoon, and lay
motionless with her face buried once more in her arm that now reposed upon the
carpeted planks. Her tears or sobs assured him that she had not fainted, and
understanding that his wisest policy would be to leave her to her thoughts, he
cast an adoring look upon the prostrate figure and quitted the cabin, slamming
the door noisily after him that she might know he was gone, but silently turning
the key outside, for it was not then his intention that she should go on deck
and meet the crew until the statement he had made to Mr Eagle had passed in
growling whispers through the men. It was customary on board the _Minorca_, and
doubtless in many other ships carrying merchandise, for the mate to dine in the
cabin with the captain in his watch below, that is to say, when he had no duty
on deck. The second mate kept a look-out, and when the chief mate was done, the
second went below to dinner. If the mate had the watch during the dinner-hour,
he remained on deck until he was relieved by the captain. The cabin dinner-hour
on board the _Minorca_ was one o'clock. When Mr Lawrence first met Mr Eagle, and
perceived that he was little superior to a working hand before the mast, he had
made up his mind to hold no intercourse with him outside the absolute
requirements of the ship's routine. He had told him plainly that he desired to
dine alone, and that when the mate's duty kept him on deck he, Mr Lawrence,
would relieve him after he had finished his meal. This arrangement perhaps
secretly pleased Mr Eagle, even on the spot when it was first named, for he
easily witnessed in Mr Lawrence a man so out and away superior to himself that
he judged he would feel like taking a great liberty every time he sat down with
the master of the ship. The dinner was served this day at one o'clock. The
humpbacked steward brought the dishes aft from the galley or caboose, as the
little cooking place used to be called. The ship had only just come out of port,
and she had brought with her a stock of fresh provisions, meat, and vegetables,
and the like, which would supply the cabin and the forecastle with fresh messes
for some days. Mr Lawrence had also caused a couple of hen-coops to be filled
with poultry. In those times sailors lacked the addition of the harness cask and
bread barge, to the bitter wooden beef and the coarse worm-eaten ship's biscuit
which science and experience have contributed to the scurvy-making fare which
seamen are obliged to eat. Yet a sort of provision was made to supplement the
brine-hardened meat and the worms of the sailor's bread. The captain of a man-
of-war, for instance, at sea, would breakfast on coffee, toast, potted beef and
tongue, sliced _à la_ Vauxhall. Whole legs of mutton were tinned. Mr Lawrence
sat down alone in the plain little cabin of the _Minorca_ on this the first day
of the vessel's sailing, and upon the table were placed by Paul a boiled fowl, a
piece of boiled bacon, a round of cold fresh beef boiled, a dish of sausages,
and two or three dishes of vegetables. Paul having already received instructions
placed a tray furnished for a meal beside his master on the table; and Mr
Lawrence cut some fowl and bacon, adding vegetables, and filled a small tumbler
with red wine, and then, stepping to the door of the berth in which Lucy Acton
was confined, he almost noiselessly inserted the key and softly shot the latch,
and resumed his seat, and Paul, bearing the tray of food, knocked on the door,
and receiving no reply entered, and the motion of the ship upon a long, steady
heave of swell slammed the door to after him. Mr Lawrence, with his back turned
upon this cabin door, heard Lucy's voice, but not what she said. If Paul
answered her his voice was so sunk by the awfulness of her presence, by all that
she meant being at sea, by all that she had typified to this forlorn vagrant
when on shore, that his accents were inaudible in the cabin. After a few minutes
he came out. He approached the cabin table and stood close. His face wore a
mingled look of astonishment and fear, and he was very pale. He was as grotesque
as something fanciful in a fairy story, with his red hair, hump, long arms,
rounded legs, and whilst he stood he scratched himself as a monkey does. His
chin was enormous, and out of all proportion to his face. "Is Miss Acton eating
her dinner?" "No, sir." "What did she say to you?" "Why, your honour, when I
went in she looked at me and burst into a laugh that turned my blood cold." "She
didn't know you to be the man that gave her the letter that brought her here?"
"She didn't look as if she remembered me, your honour, and she said nothing
about it." "What did she say?" "Why, your honour, she says whilst I hold the
tray, 'What are you?' 'I'm the ship's steward, your ledyship,' says I. 'Ay, but
what else?' says she. 'What forest was you caught in?' I didn't understand her,
sir, and didn't answer. 'Do you come from Africa?' says she, 'or have you broke
loose from a travelling wild beast show?'" Mr Lawrence arched his eyebrows.
Certainly he did not recognise the sweet and sympathetic Lucy Acton in these
questions. "And then she says, frowning as though she'd up with a knife off the
tray and run it into me, 'What have you got there?' 'Your dinner, your
ledyship,' says I. 'Put it down upon the floor!' says she in a sort of shriek,
as if she was trying to sing. 'Don't you see I'm in tatters? They've got me here
who am a princess at home, and these are my rags and all I've got,' says she,
spreading her dress with her hands as though she was goin' to skip. 'Beggars in
rags feed on the floor: they feed so. Anywhere's good enough for them. I've seen
'em sitting on the edge of ditches eating. Put the food on the floor! That's how
princesses in tatters dine.' I did as I was ordered, your honour, and came
away." "Go in presently and see if she's done, and ask if she'll have some fruit
pie or cake, and report if the tray is still on the deck." "Yes, sir," answered
Paul, who was not sailor enough to say, "Ay, ay, sir," which should have been
his speech. Mr Lawrence was exceedingly thoughtful. What opinion he was arriving
at, whether he was beginning to think that the girl was really mad or that she
was merely acting with extravagant absurdity in the hope of disgusting him, you
could not have told by looking at his face. In about ten minutes after Paul had
made his report, Mr Lawrence told him to knock on Miss Acton's cabin door and
enter. This time the door swung to and fro, and Mr Lawrence, who had turned in
his seat to follow the steward's movements, saw Miss Acton upon all fours upon
the deck with her face close to the tray, as though she was taking up the food
with her mouth. A swing of the vessel hove the door to its latch, and hid the
extraordinary picture. A minute or two later Paul came out, shutting the door
after him. "I saw her," said Mr Lawrence. "She is on her hands and knees. What
did you say?" "I asked her if she'd have some fruit pie or cake. She didn't look
up nor answer. She's chucked most of what I took in about the cabin." "She has
made no meal, then?" "I couldn't tell, your honour. The piece of chicken is on
the bed, and I see the piece of bacon under it. I dunno what she was doin' with
her nose a-nuzzling of the tray as though she was a-smelling of the salt."
"Don't enter the cabin for half an hour. Then go in and clear up. And if she
speaks, make no answer, and take no notice of her, but clean up the mess." He
left the table, and turned the key softly in Lucy's door, withdrew it, and went
on deck. The breeze that had blown the _Minorca_ out of Old Harbour still sang
in her shrouds, but with a fresh and a stronger song. The sea ran in lines of
brine which flashed friskily. The mountainous clouds sailed down the blue
heavens with the solemn majesty of line-of-battle ships draped in sun-empearled
cloth from truck to waterway. The bluff-bowed barque was darting foam from her
to right and left as she thrust through the streaming waters and rolled with
dignity, slowly to leeward and yet more slowly to windward as she brought the
violet shadowed cavities of her canvas to the wind. The hens were noisy in their
coops, and cocks crew. The sound of waters broken and in motion was musical. The
shadows of the rigging slided gently to and fro over the wide breadth of white
planks. The men in the picturesque garb of the merchant sailor of that day, some
of them in striped pantaloons flowing to the shoe, some in short-cut blue
jackets, and most of them in round hats, were distributed over several parts of
the ship. Mr Eagle walked the weather side of the quarterdeck. In reply to Mr
Lawrence's question, he said that nothing had been in sight and nothing was in
sight. This Mr Lawrence verified by a searching sweep of his gaze round the
horizon, and Mr Eagle went below into the cabin to eat his dinner. When he was
there he bade Paul go forward and tell Mr Pledge that dinner awaited him. This
privilege was Pledge's because, though he was the ship's boatswain and also her
carpenter, he kept watch and headed the starboard division of the crew as second
mate. He was a tall, lank man, rather knock-kneed, with a long neck, and, which
was very unusual in those days, his chin was garnished with a quantity of
straggling reddish hair. His face looked as though it had been put together
without much judgment. His nose, which was broken, was not in line; his mouth
was somewhat on one side, one eyebrow was raised and the other depressed. His
eyes were small, of a deep, moist, soft blue. He had served in the American
Navy, and had much to tell about Yankee captains and commodores. He was dressed
in the garb of the common sailor, and it is not wonderful that Mr Lawrence
should decline to meet him at table, which, if it did not make their footing
equal, must bring them into relations the fastidious, haughty, handsome naval
officer would regard in an uncommon degree objectionable. He entered the cabin
and took his place. Mr Eagle at the foot of the table carved the boiled beef.
When they were fairly under way with their dinner Paul went forward, and the two
men were alone in the cabin, out of hearing of Mr Lawrence's ears through the
open skylight if they suppressed their voices, equally out of hearing of the
inmate, under lock and key, of the captain's cabin. Though Mr Lawrence had
communicated the intelligence of the girl being on board and of his holding
sealed orders from Captain Acton in confidence to Mr Eagle, the sensations
excited in this plain and acid sailor by the extraordinary, astounding, and
unexpected revelations had filled him to bursting point with a fever and passion
for giving the news. In short, the man's mind was much too small to retain what
had been poured into it, and of course it overflowed. To whom other than Tom
Pledge could he speak? Pledge and he had sailed in Captain Acton's employ for
two or three voyages; they were friends, and visited each other ashore where
each had a little cottage and a wife. So after a careful survey of the skylight,
which lay open just above the table, and a cautious look round, Mr Eagle said:
"Tom, did you observe me and the Capt'n walkin' up and down this morning in
conversation?" "Ay," answered Pledge, "and I wondered what there was between ye
to keep ye so busy in talk." Mr Eagle again looked up at the skylight, and said
as softly as his gruff voice permitted: "What d'ye think, Tom, of our sailin'
under sealed orders from Captain Acton which the Captain's to read in latitood
twenty north and longitood thirty west? The contents of them sealed orders
aren't exactly known to the Capt'n, but he told me from what Capt'n Acton let
fall, he believed that the ship was to be carried to another port, and there
handed over to a Spanish gent as was a-waitin' to receive her, and that the
whole ship's company was to be discharged and sent 'ome at Captain Acton's
expense and the wages they had agreed for trebled. What d'ye say to that?"
Pledge, who chewed slowly as a cow the cud, watched his companion steadfastly,
his temples throbbing with the action of his jaws, and said: "Do you believe it,
John?" "So help me God, yes, then, as I sit here," answered Mr Eagle. "Who is to
work the ship for him?" asked Pledge. "For you may depend upon it that if the
crew are to be carried away to an unbeknown place, they'll all go below to a
man, for Jack's as good as his master when it comes to his having to do
something which he didn't agree for." "I put it as you do, though in different
words," said Mr Eagle, "and he answered that Captain Acton's orders must be
obeyed, that the crew's refusal would be mutiny, and that if they wouldn't work
the ship to a port, where he could ship a fresh crew, he'd heave a-back the
main-topsail yard and wait for a man-o'-war to come along." "Well, I'm
jiggered!" said Mr Pledge, now looking slightly startled, for he was an old
sailor, he well understood the despotic powers of the captain of a ship, and he
readily perceived that Mr Lawrence's threats in case of refusal by the crew were
to be carried out. "But that's not all," continued Mr Eagle, with another glance
at the skylight. "It ain't even 'arf all, and I think you'll agree with me that
the rummiest part's got to come." "Another slice, John!" said Pledge, pushing
his plate, and cutting a big chunk from a loaf. "Who d'ye think's aboard?"
"Who?" "Why, Captain Acton's daughter, Miss Lucy Acton!" "What's she a-doing' of
_here_?" enquired Pledge, pulling away his plate heavy with meat and fat. "She's
a-running away with Mr Lawrence!" "Or is Mr Lawrence a-running away with _her_?"
"According to his yarn," said Eagle with sour solemnity, "they've rooned away
with each other." "Where is she?" asked Pledge. Eagle dumbly pointed to the
Captain's cabin. "It's an artfully laid plot," said he, "if the Capt'n's to be
believed. She's supposed to be locked up agin her will. By-and-by she's to go
among the sailors and swear that she's been carried off by violence. This is to
make her father believe that she never consented to run away, as she don't want
to lose the fortune as 'ud otherwise come to her." "Wasn't there some talk a bit
of a time past of him a-courting of her?" said Pledge. "Why, yes, now that you
remind me, I recollect." "Well, John," said Pledge, "it's not for me nor the
likes of me to interfere in such a galavantin' job as this. If the young lady's
been run away with with her own consent, it's not for me, I says, to pay any
attention to what's 'appening. People who fall in love with each other and are
objected to by their relatives will sometimes carry on their business in a way
as might make pious, respectable old parients feel their hair standing short up
on their heads. I've lived long enough in this 'ere world to descover that no
good ever comes to a man by messing about in other people's consarns. But when
it comes to this ship being navigated to another port than the one agreed for,
why, naturally you set me a-thinking, John. I don't know nothing about them
sealed orders you refer to, but it seemed strange to me when I heard of it, and
it's strange to me still, that Mr Lawrence should have been chosen to command
this vessel when the berth was yourn by right of sarvice. Was it because Captain
Acton couldn't be sure of your a-executing his wishes? What d'ye think yourself,
John? You've got to consider it's two naval officers acting together; they know
each other's mind, and I guess that when Captain Acton chose Mr Lawrence to take
charge of his ship he knew that he was in the 'ands of a man who'd listen to no
talk, who was used to man-o'-war's discipline, and would act if it came to
having to shoot men down so as to gain his ends." Mr Eagle, whose views were
undoubtedly in accord with Mr Pledge's, viewed his companion in acid silence.
Just about this time the steward Paul came down the companion steps with the
cabin key which he had received from Mr Lawrence. He took no notice of the two
men seated at the table, but stepped to Lucy's door, knocked, paused, inserted
the key, and passed in. He emerged in less than two minutes holding the tray
that was covered literally with broken victuals, and locking the door was about
to step up the companion ladder when Mr Pledge said: "Who've you got locked up
in that there cabin?" "You must ask the Captain that, sir, if you want to know,"
Paul answered. "You dog! D'ye know I'm second mate? Answer me, or I'll flay ye
before sundown," said Pledge, turning scarlet. "I durs'nt," whined Paul. "I've
the Captain's orders to keep my mouth shut," and he hastened up the steps. He
was followed by Mr Eagle, who thought it about time to relieve the Captain. Mr
Pledge had eaten his last morsel of cheese and was leaving the table, when his
attention was arrested by a knocking on Lucy's door, accompanied by the cries of
a female; but what she said he could not hear. So Mr Pledge, taking some steps,
stood close to the door. The voice of Lucy within cried out: "Is anybody there?"
"I'm here, ma'am," answered Pledge. "Who are you?" "I'm Thomas Pledge, acting
second mate of this 'ere ship, ma'am." "Open this door!" "I can't, ma'am, it's
locked," and in proof of his assurance, Pledge turned the handle and shook the
door. "I demand to be set at liberty!" cried Lucy, in the strained, wild voice
that had frightened the hunchback steward. "The villain who commands this ship
lured me into her by pretending that Captain Acton, who is my father and the
owner of the vessel, lay seriously injured through an accident, and wished to
see me. I demand to be returned to my home! I have been stolen away by a base
artifice. The crew of this ship are the servants of my father, and they would
know his wish must be to recover me, and your duty, and Mr Eagle's, and the
men's, is to turn the ship for Old Harbour, and surrender me up to my father. If
this is not done I shall go mad. I am mad now. The wretch who by a lie has
seduced me into this vessel, has driven me crazy." And with that she fell to
singing, from which she broke off after a few moments to burst into a shrieking,
lunatic laugh. Thomas Pledge's mind was of a very common order. He had gathered
from Eagle that the girl was to pretend a situation of acute distress, that when
she was married her father should not hold her responsible for her elopement.
Her words might have carried weight, and even conviction, but for the song and
loud unmeaning laugh that closed them, in which Mr Pledge saw nothing but
acting, not having experience of insanity in any shape or form. And shouting
through the door, "I'll go and report to the Captain, ma'am, that you're locked
up and want to get out," he turned, with the intention of making for the
companion ladder, when he saw Mr Lawrence standing a few paces abaft the steps,
tall, stern, frowning, his face fierce with the strain, and indeed almost fury,
of the attention with which he had bent his ears to catch the syllables of Lucy
through the bulkhead. Mr Pledge started like a guilty thing surprised. "What are
you doing at that cabin door, sir?" asked Mr Lawrence. "I do not enquire what
you are doing in this cabin, for, according to the custom of this ship, and
perhaps of others in your Service, you take your meals here. But what are you
doing at that door, conversing through it with the lady inside?" "The lady
thumped and I went to see what was the matter, sir," said Mr Pledge, awed in his
old man-o'-war instincts by the over-bearing, I may say, the overwhelming
demeanour of Mr Lawrence, which was to his words as the thunder of the explosion
is to the message of the firearm. "Has Mr Eagle been talking to you about the
subject of our conversation this morning?" said Mr Lawrence. Now, Tom was too
sound a shipmate to betray John. He answered doggedly, as though Mr Lawrence as
well as himself must be aware that he was trespassing on ground he had no right
to tread: "We yarned of course together. We've sailed together afore, and can
always find something to talk about, sir." Mr Lawrence seemed to read the man's
thoughts. Unscrupulous as was this Naval gentleman, he was an extremely clever
fellow. Preserving a severe austerity of countenance, a demeanour upon which the
word discipline was writ large, he exclaimed: "It is not my intention to ask you
if Mr Eagle has broken his faith with me and communicated to you the confidence
I imparted to him this morning. You are, sir, by virtue of your rank aboard the
ship free of this cabin, and it is therefore desirable that I should trust you.
The lady in yonder berth is Miss Lucy Acton, who consented to elope with me,
providing it should be understood by all on board that she was being kidnapped
or stolen from her home. That this should appear, it was arranged between us
that she should be locked up as though she were a prisoner, and then in a day or
two I should enlarge her, and she would go amongst the crew and speak of my
cunning and stratagem, and her desperate lot in being torn from her father's
home. All which would in due course reach her father's ears, and mollify his
wrath at her giving me her hand in the existing state of my fortunes, and
preserve to her the fortune she must inherit as Captain Acton's only child. Now,
sir," continued Mr Lawrence in his frowning, imperious way, "this is submitted
to you in confidence, and it is manifestly my wish that some of the crew should
credit her story that they may give the evidence we desire when they are called
upon to tell what they know!" "Well, sir," answered Mr Pledge, pleased by the
skipper's candour and condescension, "it's not for a plain sailor man like me to
put his hand into such a tar-bucket as this. I know my bit, and I'm a-willing
for to do it, and if the hands get to hear the story of the lady it'll come from
her or from that there humpbacked steward who waits upon her, and not from me,
for I'm for minding my own affairs, and sticking like a barnacle to a ship's
bottom to the ondertakings I enter into." He said this with a grave nod of the
head, that the significance of the closing passage of his speech might be
mastered, for it was then running through his mind that more lay behind the
presence of Lucy Acton on board than Mr Lawrence suspected he knew: by which he
referred to the sealed orders. Mr Lawrence made no answer, and Mr Pledge seeing
that he was to go, went on deck by the only exit, namely, the companion ladder.
Immediately after he had passed through the hatch the steward Paul descended.
"Did you clear away the mess from Miss Acton's berth?" asked Mr Lawrence. "Yes,
sir." "The lady, I presume, ate nothing?" "I couldn't see that she had, your
honour." "When you have cleared this table, go forward and tell the cook to cut
a plate of the most delicate beef and chicken sandwiches he can contrive. Get a
bottle of red wine and a glass, and be ready to carry the refreshments to the
lady when I've left her." He approached Miss Acton's door. Lucy was seated on a
locker under a window, three of which embellished the stern of the _Minorca_.
The ocean as the ship lightly depressed her stern, was visible through this
window, a blue field decked with flowers of foam that rose and sank. The large
glazed space filled the cabin with light, which trembled with the pulse of the
white wake streaming fan-wise, and with the shivering of the sunlight into
splinters of diamond brilliance by the fretful motions of the breeze-brushed
waters. Miss Lucy Acton sat with her eyes veiled by downcast lids fixed in a
stare as lifeless as the dead upon her hands, which lay clasped in her lap. So
motionless was she, you would have said she slept. Much of the lovely bloom that
always gave to her lineaments a choice sweetness was absent, but not the less
did as much of her face as was visible express its refined and delicate beauty.
When Mr Lawrence entered she did not raise her eyes, nor whilst he stood looking
at her did she discover by any sort of movement the least knowledge of his
presence. "Lucy!" he said, speaking the word in the wooing voice of love. She
made no sign. He repeated her name as though startled by her immobility in which
an element of tragedy might have been found in the singular, unwinking fixity of
her stare upon her hands. He stepped to her side, and peered closely into her
face and listened to hear if she breathed. Oh yes: she breathed, she was alive.
But though he put his face so close to her's that she might have felt his breath
upon her cheek, her form did not move by so much as might indicate the passage
of a thrill, her eyes remained as steadfast in their gaze as though they were
painted. He withdrew a step, and exclaimed: "Lucy, why will you not speak to me?
Why will you not look at me? You know that all this is done in the holy name of
love, and God who knows me knows that I would not cause you a pang, that your
beautiful eyes should not be shadowed by a tear drawn by any action of mine if I
could have believed that loving me as I know you do, that loving you as you know
I do, you would have come to me at the summons of my passion, and hand in hand
with me as my wife, taken your chance of all that might have followed." The
emotion of an impassioned heart, the melody of a rich and manly voice were in
his words, and no man, though he should hate the fellow for his wrong-doing,
could have doubted his sincerity whilst listening to his speech. Add to this his
superb figure, his handsome face glowing with feeling, the hereditary dignity of
his demeanour; but these were expressions of his meaning which she would not
raise her eyes to witness. All on a sudden and when the silence that followed
had not lasted ten seconds, she sprang to her feet with a shriek; she dashed her
hands to her face, she rushed as though pursued to the other end of the cabin,
and there crouched with her face to the bulkhead, hidden in her hands; and thus
she stood rocking herself sideways, moaning: "Why am I not sent home? Why am I
here a prisoner? What will my father think has become of me? Home, home, home!
In the hands of a man that dare rob his employer! At the mercy of one who of all
Captain Acton's friends and acquaintances should feel the most deeply obliged to
him." She wheeled round and out of her incommunicable attitude and language of
distress, and said, looking at him vacantly with a cold, pale smile: "Are you Mr
Lawrence, the son of Sir William Lawrence, Captain Acton's friend?" "You know,
madam, that I am," he answered, bowing with graceful suavity, and with a light
smile that was like saying, "I understand the import of your tactics, and am
willing to wait and watch you." "I know, sir," she exclaimed with the vehement
indignation and contempt conveyed by that perfection of art which conceals art
and which is a gift of intuition beyond the reach of those not born with it,
"that Sir William Lawrence has a son, and that he was dismissed from the Navy
for a brutal, drunken outrage of which he alone, of all the gentlemen and
officers in the Service, was capable." He coloured brightly at this, and his
frown was as though a shadow had come between him and the light that revealed
his face. "I know," she continued, still preserving her accent of scorn and
viewing him with eyes that did not seem to be her's, so did she contrive to
diminish the breadth of the beauty of the lids, so did she manage to look
passions and feelings which the memory of her oldest friend could never have
recalled as vitalising her brooding half-hooded gaze: "I know that this man came
ashore and lived upon his father who was poor, and drank and gambled until his
name provoked nothing but a shrug, and that one day in a fit of pity, for which
doubtless he has asked God's pardon, Captain Acton, who loves Admiral Lawrence,
gave his poor creature of a son command of a ship. This I know," she said,
letting her eyes fall suddenly from his face down upon her fingers, which she
seemed to count as she proceeded. "But I had always supposed that there was some
spirit of goodness left in Mr Walter Lawrence. I believed that though he might
gamble and drink and live in idleness upon the bounty of his father, he with all
his imperfections was a man incapable of outraging the feelings of a young girl,
incapable of betraying the generous confidence of one who stood to him as a
warm-hearted friend. Can _you_ be that Mr Lawrence?" she said, peering at him in
such a peculiar fashion, with such archness of contempt that a spectator, short-
sighted and at a little distance, would have supposed she was looking at the
handsome fellow through an eye-glass. "Oh, I am going mad to suppose it--mad to
think it possible!" She flashed her hands to her forehead, sobs seemed to shake
her, she turned on her heel and went to the big stern window, and looked out
upon the sea. He seemed to have been struck dumb by the fury of her candour. His
teeth were fastened upon his under lip, his cheek had grown pale. "Will you
leave this cabin," she said without turning, "and acquaint the first ship you
meet with that you have a young gentlewoman on board who desires to be set
ashore in England? I do not ask you," she continued, with the cutting sneer that
was on her lip as plain in her voice as though her face was visible to him, "to
return this ship and her contents to their lawful owner. But if you suppose that
you are going to gain me by keeping me a prisoner in this den, if you imagine
that all the horror which my soul can feel for a wicked, unscrupulous man is not
likely to be with me in all thoughts of you that come to me with your presence,
or fill me with madness when I am alone, then better for you if you should go to
the stack of muskets which is in the cabin, load one and shoot yourself." And
clapping her hands as though she was in the box of a theatre ravished by some
transcendently fine performance, she once more delivered herself of the maniac
laugh which had curdled Paul's blood and which though ringing from lips, though
proceeding from a face hidden from him, seemed to strike Mr Lawrence as nothing
which she had spoken had, and save but for the swaying of the ship he stood as
motionless as a statue facing another statue whose back was turned to him.
CHAPTER XII

MR LAWRENCE REFLECTS

When Mr Lawrence found that nothing he could say, nothing he could implore,
nothing he could entreat his companion to forgive, provoked Lucy into looking
round from the window through which she gazed at the sea, nor caused her to
alter her posture, which curiously suggested with dramatic art that she was
alone, that the man was gone, that she was engrossed by thoughts of her own, he
withdrew. After closing the door he seemed to hesitate over turning the key, but
turned it nevertheless and pocketed it as before. The cabin was empty. Mr Pledge
was again superintending work forward. Mr Eagle kept the look-out. This was the
ship's first day from home. The watches had not been set, and it would be "all
hands" with the ship's company until the second dog-watch came round. The vessel
swayed on the heave of the swell with the ponderosity, you would have looked for
in one of her mould. She creaked in every timber. She pitched rapidly, albeit
the blue afternoon hollow was very shallow, but the sullenness of the sturdy
round bows was in her longwise motion. If Lucy meant to be sea-sick she was
neglecting her chance, for here was movement more fitted to discompose the land-
going stomach than the lofty billow that is swung by the storm. But so far this
sweet and amazing young lady had proved herself as good a sailor as Mr Lawrence
himself. Whilst he stood in reflection at the cabin table, the steward Paul came
down the steps bearing a tray of refreshments so prettily decorated as to prove
that the ship's cook had been chosen with judgment. The pyramid of sandwiches
might have kindled a light in the dulled eye of one lying oppressed with nausea.
In addition were a plate of cold tongue, a small plate of brawn, with two or
three other delicacies. On the tray stood a bottle of red wine and a tumbler. Mr
Lawrence told Paul, handing him the key as he gave him the directions, to take
the tray to Miss Acton, place it on the table in perfect silence, and quit the
cabin, making no answer if she spoke to him. When this was done and the key
received by Mr Lawrence, he took a tumbler from a rack out of the skylight and
entered the berth which under the name of "sick-bay" had been fitted up for his
own use. Here he contrived to find a bottle of brandy, a small caulker of which
without water he swallowed. This interior presented a very inhospitable look;
its rough-hewn bunks might have been intended for the accommodation of
prisoners. The deck was without carpet. Indeed the only colour or warmth which
this melancholy hole presented to the eye or the mind was to be found in such
wearing apparel as swung from hooks, in Mr Lawrence's sea-chest, in the nautical
instruments, in the shelves with their little burden of tin box, a few books,
and so forth. He sat down upon his chest, folded his arms and sank into thought.
Had he needed a motto for his reflections he might have found one in the Duke of
Gloster's speech:

"Was ever woman in this humour woo'd? Was ever woman in this humour won?" He had
been so transported by his scheme for winning the beautiful young girl whom he
worshipped that his survey of the vast canvas of his intentions was in reality
restricted to but one corner of it, so that he saw only a little of the whole
truth. First, and certainly foremost, he had counted upon her love for him,
which, however carefully the secret might have been kept by her, was witnessed
by him every time they had met, and flourished as a conviction in him. He had
looked for her forgiveness for the rashness, and, it may be added, the cruelty
of his conspiracy of love, and he never could have believed that in the sweet
image of the girl dwelt such a character as she had exhibited since, after
inveigling her on board into his cabin, he confessed that the story which had
brought her to him was a lie, and with a face filled with the light of worship
for her avowed his intentions. In some strokes of this character he might have
indeed believed that she was merely acting, but other features had impressed him
to such a degree that, though he was determined--not yet, perhaps--to accept the
suspicion, or the persuasion of his own opinion, he, behind the darkest curtains
of his heart, felt a fear that his stratagem would force her reason from her
brain, that she would go mad when she clearly understood that the ship was bound
to Rio to be feloniously sold there, when she realised that she had been
ruthlessly torn from her father, from her home, and all that she loved, and that
her name must ever bear the stain, happen what might, of Mr Lawrence's ignoble
feat of abduction. But as a rule men who act with excessive imprudence are
endowed with a quality of self-complacency which enables them to persuade
themselves that "it's all right," and to this belief they cling until time and
experiment prove that it's all wrong; whereupon their moral being falls to
pieces, they become mean, cheap, and weak, and bewail their folly under the name
of misfortune. Mr Lawrence having meditated awhile, rose from his chest,
unclasped his arms, and whistling softly the familiar air of "Wapping Old
Stairs," quitted his naked, forlorn, inhospitable berth. As he advanced towards
the companion steps the hatch was darkened by the figure of Mr Eagle, who, on
catching sight of the Captain, cried: "A sail broad on the larboard bow, sir!"
Mr Lawrence rushed back to his cabin, whence he took from a shelf a telescope of
uncommon power for those times, the gift of no less a man than Captain Acton
after intelligence had been brought to him of a particular heroic piece of
behaviour on the part of Mr Lawrence. With this telescope he sprang on to the
deck, and levelling it at the sea over the lee bow, viewed in the lenses the
picture of a large man-of-war with two white bands broken by gun-ports. She was
far away, yet not so distant but that a hand's breadth of her black side could
be seen shivering in mirage betwixt the lower white band and the wool-white
tremble of water running aft. All the men of the _Minorca_ were on deck at work
here and there. They looked at Mr Lawrence as with levelled telescope he stood
on the quarterdeck viewing the distant battleship. They all belonged to Old
Harbour Town; all had heard of him, and a few knew him by sight. They were
members of a group of inhabitants who felt that the presence amongst them of a
man whose sea story though brief was brilliant did them and Old Harbour Town
honour, and they regarded him as he stood with the glass at his eye, as though
they should say, "Yon's a man-o'-war, and she may be a Johnny; but there's the
Jack who will know what to do with her." And, may be, some of those who thus
reflected cast their eyes upon the figure of Mr Eagle, who stood near enough to
the Captain to enable the sight to master the details of a very striking
contrast. "Hoist the ensign!" exclaimed Mr Lawrence. Mr Eagle, breaking into a
run, sent aloft at the peak of the barque the meteor flag of Old England.
"British!" said Mr Lawrence in a moment, as though speaking to himself, "as I
thought," holding the man-o'-war in view in his telescope, and marking the slow
soaring of the British flag to the gaff-end of the two-decker. The Captain's
exclamation had been overheard, and the gaze of the Merchant seamen of the
_Minorca_ was fixed upon the figure of one of those fabrics which could never
light up with their cloud of sail the confines of the sea or the nearer fields
of water, without exciting a thrill of interest or causing the heart to leap up
in momentary transport of patriotic pride. She was under fore and mizzen jury
topmasts. With the main all was well, and the spars lifted their canvas to the
moon-like royal without hint of wreck or suggestion of wound. Either she had
been in action and had come away crippled, or had been in trouble on a lee-shore
or amongst rocks. And still she painted a stately and a swelling picture upon
the blue sky past her. The sun was westering; his yellow light flung upon the
distant canvas the delicate sheen of fine silk. From the hand's breadth of black
side under the lower white band, the stately roll to leeward flashed lightning-
sparks from the wet, and, as she slightly pitched, the upheaval of her bows
exhibited at the fore-foot the snow-like crumbling of foam. She passed in
grandeur and in tranquillity. All the hearts aboard the _Minorca_, British as
they were, must wish that that gallant show might not fall in with something
superior to herself in weight of broadside and perfect in equipment aloft.
Though every man felt that the sequel of such a rencountre must be the
inevitable one: that is the sailing of the jury-rigged two-decker in company
with a powerful prize both bound, let us suppose, for the sweet and lovely
waters of Plymouth Haven. Mr Eagle approached Mr Lawrence, who turned upon him
suddenly. "The sails of that ship," cried the Captain, "must have been in sight
some time before you reported her. When I came on deck she was hull up. Is this
your idea of keeping a look-out?" "I reported her as soon as I saw her, sir."
"Wasn't she reported from the masthead?" "Yes, sir, and then I saw her and
reported her to you." "And this is the way that a look-out is to be kept aboard
this ship," said Mr Lawrence with a biting insolence of scorn, and that sort of
pity which enrages more than kicks or execrations. "If you don't hold to the
instructions you receive from me, sir, you'll soon find yourself eating black
bread in a French dungeon with straw from a sty for a bed." He made a step to
the ship's side, and the mate without answer slunk away to leeward. About this
time the breeze began to freshen. The horizon slightly thickened with some windy
change in the atmosphere and with the shadow of the evening. The _Minorca_ under
all plain sail heeled into the white smother of spume alongside, and as she
sprang crushed the surge with her round weather-bow till the bright brine
sometimes leapt like a fountain athwart the forecastle. Mr Lawrence watched her
behaviour with attention, and often sent a look at the creaming road of wake
which was so brilliant and long that, as the shadow deepened, the tail of it was
lost to view. In the second dog-watch the crew were mustered aft and divided
into watches. It was tolerably certain that down to this moment no hint had
found its way amongst them that their course would presently be for any other
port in the world than Kingston. Mr Lawrence supped alone as he had dined alone,
and, as he intended, to breakfast alone. At sea the last meal which in the old
forecastle days consisted of black tea and ship's biscuit was invariably called
supper. At six o'clock Mr Lawrence sat down to the last meal of the day. A tray
for the inmate of the Captain's cabin was prepared. It was furnished with tea
and milk (for the ship was but one day out, and though she wanted a cow she
could not need at least a day's supply of milk), bread and butter, slices of ham
and biscuits. When the steward came from the cabin Mr Lawrence said: "Did the
young lady speak?" "No, sir." "What is she doing?" "She is pulling feathers and
other stuff out of her bed which she has drawed from its place on to the deck,
and she is sitting alongside of it a-fluffing of the feathers over the cabin
floor." "Did she look at you when you entered?" "She didn't seem as if she even
saw me, your honour." "Has she eaten anything, can you tell me?" "When I fetched
her tray last time, sir, I noticed that some sandwiches and tongue was gone, and
there was a little red wine in the bottom of the tumbler, as though she had
drunk some and left a drop." "She has ripped up her mattress and is throwing the
inside of it round about her!" Mr Lawrence frowned, pursed his lip, and stared
upon the deck with a strange admixture of gloom and anger. In truth there had
come into his mind the remembrance of a person who had fallen mad, and amongst
the earliest indications of his insanity was his tendency to tear up everything
that would yield to the power of his fingers, including his clothes. "By-and-
by," said he, "go in and clear the mess up. Take no notice of her, nor heed her
if she speaks. Then fetch the mattress from the upper bunk in my cabin and place
it on her bedstead." He finished his supper in a very gloomy mood. His character
has been imperfectly drawn if it leaves upon the reader the impression that he
was no more than a gallant, handsome, hectoring scoundrel, a drunkard, a liar,
and a gambler. He was more than this, and better than this. In him was a very
great deal of honest, sturdy, British human nature, and amongst those who saw
the white skin of his character peeping through the rags and tatters of his
morals was the young lady whom he had locked up in his cabin. Was he driving,
had he driven her mad? This was an awful thought to him, a figure, a presentment
on the canvas of his scheme which his utmost imagination never could have
painted. He was passionately fond of her. In truth he was risking his neck to
win her. His inmost sensibility as a man and as a gentleman was in perpetual
posture of recoil over the reflection that his hand it was that had made this
gently-nurtured, beautiful, adorable girl a prisoner in a little ship that was
rolling to a port in which she was to be fraudulently sold. He thought of her in
the lovely drawing-room of Old Harbour House: the soft illumination of wax
lights; the sweet incense of flowers; the piano whose keys were accompanied by
her own melodious warblings; her little dog; all the comforts and luxuries which
wealth could provide her with; all that a tender-hearted and loving father could
endow his only child whom he loved with. And then he thought of her torn from
all this pleasantness and sweetness and elegance, so robed that in a short
period she must become beggarly to the eye; after her father's hospitable and
plentiful table, fed with the poor fare of a common little ship. For some time
after he had closed his knife and fork he sat at table shading and supporting
his forehead with his hand, his elbow resting, and deep thought was in his
attitude. To one who knew his story he submitted a picture for memory to
cherish. Night was near, though not yet come, but its shadow was upon the ship,
and three or four stars like little balls of quicksilver ran to and fro athwart
the gleaming black panes of the skylight glass. The hum of a steady breeze in
the stout shrouds, in the cat-harpings, in the drumming hollow of many sails
sounded like the strains of an organ muffled to the ear by the walls of the
church that holds it. The low thunder of the surge washing past the ship was as
constant as its accompaniment of the concert of creakings, jarrings, shocks in
bulkhead, rudder-post and strong fastenings. Mr Lawrence started suddenly, stood
up, looked round him, and viewed steadfastly for a space Lucy's cabin door. Then
muttering to himself, "To-morrow--to-morrow!" he made his way towards the deck.
He had half mounted the cabin ladder when he was brought to a stand by a sound
of voices, of men speaking hard by the companion-way. "What beats all my goin'
a-fishing," said Mr Thomas Pledge in a voice which, in spite of its being
subdued, and in spite of the noises of the wind aloft, and of waters washing
along the bends yearning and seething, was distinctly audible to Mr Lawrence as
he stood in the shelter of the companion-way, "is this: this 'ere ship belongs
to Captain Acton. His purchase of her was square and above-board. Why should he
go behind his own back, in a manner of speaking, and put a man that was an
officer in the Royal Navy in charge to carry her to a port, and sell her by
stealth, as though she was a piece of plunder, and the officer in charge ordered
to 'and her over to a fence, which, John, as of course you know, is the vulgar
name for a man as receives stolen goods? Why is the crew kept in ignorance of
Captain Acton's intention? There's no 'arm in a man a-selling of his own
property. But I says there is a good deal of 'arm in a man deceiving of sailors
for making them an offer to do something which he don't rightfully explain, and
which they'd decline to undertake if they'd been told the nature of it." "In all
what you say I agree with you, Tom," answered Mr Eagle, "and I should have
thought that Captain Acton was the last man on this earth to have behaved
himself in such a way. For my part I have always found him so straightforward
that the needle ain't truer to the Pole than he is to his rightful and
honourable meaning." "Ay," said Pledge, "but don't you forget that the needle
swings, and leaves the Polar mark points off." "But he swings back again," said
Mr Eagle, "and is true as God's law allows him to be in every atom of steel that
goes to the making of him. Have you talked at all forrards about this here
matter?" "Not yet," was the reply. "Well," said Mr Eagle, "I'm for leaving these
'ere coils on the pin until the time comes for chucking the fakes down and
lettin' go, by which I mean I'm for waitin' until the Capt'n calls the 'ands aft
and reads to 'em the sealed orders he told me about. It'll be time enough to
speak up when we know what Captain Acton's instructions to him are." "You may be
right," said Pledge, "but I should oncommonly like to larn what old Jim is
a-going to say to this 'ere traverse." Meaning by old Jim the oldest hand
forward, and one who had served Captain Acton ever since that retired Naval
officer had commenced ship-owning. At this point Mr Lawrence, who judged that as
much had been said as was likely to interest him, put his foot over the coaming
and passed on to the deck, walking, without heeding the presence of the two men,
to the binnacle stand. He inspected the compass, and then looked along the deck.
Only one figure was now visible, and he had started to stump the planks in the
true deep-sea look-out fashion. It was, of course, as Mr Lawrence had foreseen.
Eagle had betrayed Mr Lawrence's confidence, and Pledge manifestly was thirsty
to carry the report into the forecastle. As this was a part of Mr Lawrence's
programme his mind made no other comment upon it than that he was pleased to
discover that honest John Eagle, as Captain Acton held him, was a rogue who
could not keep a secret although imparted by so exalted a personage as the
commander of a ship, and that in breaking his promise the sour, shallow-minded
mate was doing exactly what Mr Lawrence wished. The night came down in a heavy
shadow that was not lightened by its burden of stars. The foam of the sea looked
as spectral as the faint astral splashes in the velvet deeps on high through
which sailed many visionary shapes of cloud. A little time before it fell dark,
and when the soft, moist crimson of the sun that was set yet lurked in the west,
the steward Paul went aft with lanterns for the cabins occupied by the Captain,
the mate, and Miss Lucy Acton. The great cabin, or living-room, was already
lighted by two lanterns which swung from hooks on either side the skylight fore-
and-aft. The lanterns Paul bore were small, of iron frames fitted with glass,
and in them was consumed a mesh which was fed with oil. Mr Lawrence was in the
act of passing from the cabin steps to his berth when Paul, who had received the
key from him, came out of the interior tenanted by Lucy. He looked pale in the
lantern light, ugly, and grotesque, and his face wore an expression as though he
had been terrified. "Have you hung up the light in Miss Acton's cabin?" said Mr
Lawrence. "Yes, sir." "What is she doing?" "She was lying on the mattress I took
in." "Did she speak?" "No, sir. At least not at once." "Has she ripped up the
mattress?" "I didn't see she 'ad, your honour." "What next?" "As I turned after
'anging the lantern up I found her stannin' behind me with a knife in her hand;
one of the knives I took in the tray, and didn't miss when I cleared away. She
says to me, speakin' through her teeth like as though she was tryin' to talk
whilst holding on to something with her mouth, and in the strangest, thinnest
voice I ever heard in all my life, like when you're trying to file down the head
of a nail, 'What do you want here, you loathsome creature? You come fresh from
your forest. Go back before I kill you!' And she flourished the knife which
glittered in her 'and as though it was a-fire, on which I ran out, sir." It
would have been difficult to tell what was in Mr Lawrence's mind as he stood
viewing Paul for some moments in silence, after that arched-legged hunchback had
ceased. He said in a voice without a tremor, in tones as steady and collected as
those in which he would ask a man how he was or bid him good-morning: "Have you
ever met with mad people?" "Yes, sir." "What proof have they given you that they
were mad?" "A-tearin' up of their clothes and a-goin' about without shame. He
was a man called Micky Cruppin, sir. Another 'ud stop at every pool to wash his
feet. I knowed a man who wouldn't attend sarvice 'cos he said that the devil
always came in, and took a seat beside him. There was old Mother Compton, who'd
spit at a dog if he barked at her, who used to do her washin' on the Sabbath,
sayin' that she was too good to go to church, and that the parson ought to be
'anged for having committed a forgery where he last lived. And this she'd say of
a new parson just as she would of t'other who had gone afore him." "Do you think
Miss Acton mad?" said Mr Lawrence, speaking with an effort, but determined to
have an independent opinion and willing to believe that the wretch who stood
humped, pallid, and terrified before him might be able to distinguish clearly
what was obscured by his own prejudices, wishes, and dread. "Yes, sir, I do,"
was the answer, swiftly delivered, as is the characteristic of conviction.
Without further speech Mr Lawrence passed into his cabin. Till midnight he was
frequently up and down. The mate in charge rounding upon his heel would see the
figure of the Captain, who might not have long before gone below, rising and
falling against the stars as he stood grasping a back-stay, watching the
darkling ship as she crushed the phantom lights of the deep out of the black
coil of surge with its trembling lading of stars of the sea-glow, and ever and
anon sending the eye of a man, who has been used to looking out for ships of the
enemy, around the gloom of the horizon. But the mate of the watch did not know
that Mr Lawrence varied this routine of vigilance by often standing in his own
cabin with his ear pressed to the bulkhead that separated Lucy's berth from his,
with the idea of catching any noises that might be made within. Shortly after
midnight he softly turned the key in Lucy's door and looked in, and deeming that
she lay asleep he passed in, closing the door behind him, that the roll of the
ship might not slam the door and awaken the sleeper. The light was dim, but
sufficiently clear for eyes that had come out of the gloom or darkness. A
mattress lay upon the deck close against the bedstead, which was emptied of its
furniture, and upon this mattress was stretched the figure of Lucy Acton. She
was fully dressed as in the day, save that she had removed her jockey-shaped
hat. The bolster from the bedstead supported her head. Some of her dark hair had
become disengaged and lay loosely about her cheek, giving the purity of marble
to her brow in that light, and her sleep was so deep that she lay as though
dead. On the deck close beside her grasp was a common table knife. Mr Lawrence
made a step and quickly picked up the knife and drew back again, conscious that
the fixed gaze will often awake a slumberer even from deep repose. He stood
close to the door viewing this picture of a sleeping girl in a ship's little
cabin irradiated by a dim light, whose motions, with the rolling and the
pitching of the ship, filled the darkling interior with a hundred dancing
spectres. His marine ear would take no heed of the voices of the ship in that
cabin, the groans and murmurs, the low whistlings and rusty strainings. This was
a concert which his seasoned sense of hearing must miss or overlook in his
perception of the picture he viewed. He gazed at the sleeping figure for two or
three minutes and then left, again locking the door. He entered his own cabin
and stretched his form along the lower bunk; but used as he was to sleep well in
an hour betwixt one scene of slaughter, of belching broadsides, of fierce and
murderous boarding and another scene scarred by the cannon flame, terrible with
its thunder of guns whose muzzles yawned close to the muzzles of the foe,
slumber was not to be his. Was it possible that Lucy's situation had driven her
out of her mind? Her behaviour throughout the day had been extraordinary.
Features of character had appeared in her in the extravagance of her moods and
humours which he never could have conceived would, though latent and demanding
the summons of insanity to become visible, have formed a part of her nature.
She, the gentle, the sweet, the refined, the tender, the sympathetic had
exhibited even coarseness. Could she be mad, and yet slumber so soundly? How do
the insane sleep? He contrasted her wretched bed on that cabin floor with her
home bedchamber which he figured--he had never entered it; a room sweet-scented
with the flowers of the creepers at the windows, white and fair in the apparel
of a girl's bower of rest, elegant in its equipment as were all the rooms of the
home of the Actons. He loved her passionately, even to madness, and must win
her. But he never would have sought to win her at the price of her reason, had
he foreseen the blow his stratagem must deal her. He must turn robber to rescue
himself from a life-term of imprisonment as a debtor, and he could not steal his
friend's ship without stealing his daughter too, because he knew that his act of
piracy would as effectually end all chance of his possessing her as a wife as
though she lay as dead as Juliet in her tomb. He was on deck early in the
morning. Daybreak had turned ashen the surface of the sea. The wind was a steady
breeze, and the _Minorca_ crowded with every cloth she carried saving her stun-
sails, plunged, and pitched, and frothed, and foamed in prodigious fine style as
she was swept onwards by the wind that was a point abaft the beam. The sun rose
in wet pink splendour on the larboard quarter, and by his light, which threw out
the sea-line like the crystal rim of a tumbler against the heavens which were
full of travelling clouds, Mr Lawrence swept with his glass the whole brimming
circle. There was nothing in sight. Mr Pledge walked the deck in charge of the
watch. When Mr Lawrence appeared Pledge saluted him in man-o'-war style, but Mr
Lawrence's policy towards Pledge was the same as his policy towards Eagle. He
would not sit at meals with him, or have anything to say to him outside the
necessities of strict discipline and the ship's routine. Pledge saw pride,
haughtiness, and contempt in the handsome face that was turned to him when Mr
Lawrence condescended to ask a few questions about the ship's rate of going, and
the like. But this much the Captain added: "Did you ever serve in a man-o'-war,
sir?" "Yes, sir," answered Pledge. "British?" "American, your honour." "Well,
the Yankee's discipline is taut, though not so taut as ours by the length of a
log-line to a lead-line. You therefore understand the necessity of obeying
orders?" With some astonishment Thomas Pledge answered: "I do, sir." "I told Mr
Eagle to keep a bright look-out for ships, and he reported one to me when she
was hull up. She might have been a Frenchman, and if so, we should now be
occupying her hold. You will please keep a bright look-out for ships, sir!" he
added, with which he stepped to the weather-side of the quarterdeck, and Pledge
crossed to leeward thinking to himself: "If he talks to old Jim like this and
with that there face and manner, he'll find out that the discipline of the
British Merchant Service ain't all his Navy ideas would like to see it. Damn me,
on top of his talking to me like this, if I don't 'ave a yarn with old Jim after
breakfast, and blast the consequences," and he sent a scowl at Mr Lawrence, who
was looking to windward. CHAPTER XIII

LUCY'S MADNESS

The monotonous and commonplace demands of everyday life on board ship as well as
on shore will enter into the most exalted and uncommon forms of romance at sea.
Whether Lucy Acton was mad, or whether she was merely acting a part, it was as
certain she must be fed as though she was a vulgar, homely, steerage passenger
with nothing more poetic and soul-lifting in her life than the faded portrait of
the milkman who wooed and then jilted her. The cabin breakfast was served at
half-past eight. A tray for Lucy was placed at the side of Mr Lawrence, who with
his own hand furnished it. He then directed Paul, whilst giving him the key, to
leave the door unlocked on quitting the berth, and, turning in his chair, he
watched the hunchback enter. But the door, as before, was closed by the swing of
the ship, and he caught but a glimpse of the interior, which did not frame its
inmate. This time Paul was for some minutes in the berth. He came out, leaving
the door unlocked as ordered, though shut, and stood beside Mr Lawrence to make
his report. "How does the lady seem?" said Mr Lawrence. "She made me put the
tray on the deck, sir," answered Paul, "and I see her running her eyes over it,
and she says, 'Where's the knife, you man of the forest?' I says, 'I don't know,
mum.'" He paused. "Nothing but a slice or two of tongue was sent to her," said
Mr Lawrence, "that requires a knife to cut it with. Go on! Tell me what
followed." "After she told me to put the tray on the deck, and looked at it and
asked about the knife, she stares at me just as I was about to go, and then,
your honour, her face changes as if she'd pulled off a mask. She smiled with so
cunning a look, such a trembling of the eyelids, that I reckoned she'd got
something hidden and was going to stab me with it, and she lifts her shoulders
all the while, a-looking at me with a cunning smile and trembling eyes, till I
supposed she was a-imitating of my figure; and then she whispers so soft that I
could just hear what she said, whilst she beckons to me, smiling: 'If I show it,
swear you'll keep it a secret.' 'I don't know what you mean, ma'am,' I says.
'Here,' she says, with her cunning smile, and still a-beckoning. 'But if you
don't keep the secret I'll kill you as sartin as that you was born in a
forest.'" Here again the fellow paused, apparently striving to find words to
produce his picture. "Go on!" said Mr Lawrence fiercely. "What did she show
you?" Paul started, and answered: "She took me to the locker that's under the
window, and, lifting the lid, pointed down into the inside, and began to laugh
with a strange, crying noise, like a cat quarrelling, and then says she, 'Do you
see it?' There was nothing in the locker, saving that in one end of it she'd
made a sort of bird's nest out of the bed feathers which I 'adn't swept away,
and in it was her rings, a piece of soap, a salt-cellar which I hadn't missed
from the tray, and what I took for a ball, but which, I allow, was her gloves
rolled up tight. 'Do you see it?' she said, looking so cunning and a-whispering
so mysterious, it was more like dreaming than living to see and watch her.
'That's my secret!' and then she slams the lid of the locker to, with a noise
which I thought your honour would believe was a pistol-shot, and says, frownin'
and starin' at me with eyes that seemed to be in a blaze, 'If you says a word
about what you've seen I'll kill you.'" The fellow ceased. He had told all he
had to relate, and he was by no means such a fool as not to see in his
listener's face that he had related much more than enough. He scratched his
thigh as a monkey would, and fell to waiting upon his master. When Mr Lawrence
had finished breakfast he went on deck consistently with the innovation he had
made in the ship's routine aft to relieve Mr Eagle, who had come on watch at
eight o'clock, and who now with Mr Pledge went to breakfast in the cabin. It was
a very fine, clear, sparkling May morning far down in the English Channel, and
still the sea stretched desolate to its dim blue recesses: which, had all been
right with Mr Lawrence, would have pleased him very much indeed, but he had
something else to think of. The waters frolicked in little sliding runs; it was
a chasing dance of waters with the billows pointing their white satin shoes
under their brilliant skirts of liquid blue. Mr Lawrence walked the deck, and
seemed to be keeping a bright look-out as he swept the horizon with the glass he
had brought with him, and often his stern, haughty, and handsome face was
directed towards the men, who seemed to know that a vigilant eye had hove into
view through the companion, and they clapped a fresh colour of activity into
those motions of limbs which accompanied their labours. But in truth Mr Lawrence
was all the while thinking of what he had heard from Paul, and every time he
took a turn his gaze went to the companion hatch, whence, now that her cabin
door was unlocked, he expected at any moment to see the figure of Lucy Acton
emerge. What would she do if she came on deck? And what was he to do if his
treatment of her had driven her mad? It seemed like all the world to a very
little, for here was this one man in conflict with really stupendous
circumstances brought about by himself. Upon his hands was the girl of his
heart, the most adorable of women in his opinion, as mad--if he was to trust the
evidence of his own senses and the report of his steward--as any howling,
grimacing, jibbering inmate of a lunatic asylum. Upon his hands, too, was the
ship with a crowd of sailors, the ship to be feloniously sold, the sailors to be
fraudulently got rid of: and much must depend upon the reception accorded him
and his friend Dick, if it ever should come to the _Minorca's_ safe arrival at
Rio de Janeiro, by the intelligent scoundrel whom he had named in his letter as
Don José Zamovano y Villa. Mr Eagle did not keep him long waiting, and when that
surly, awkward seaman arrived Mr Lawrence went below and found Mr Thomas Pledge
in the act of leaving the table and the cabin, with his jaw still working in
mastication. It was clear that Mr Pledge had no intention of keeping his seat,
even though he had not entirely swallowed his last mouthful, when Mr Lawrence
hove in sight. As the second mate climbed the companion steps Mr Lawrence stood
with his hand upon the table and his eyes fastened upon Lucy's door, thinking.
It was clear he was hanging in the wind, as sailors say. He could head a
boarding party, he could look a loaded cannon full in the muzzle, he could risk
seizing the side-rope which was connected with a fuse for exploding the powder-
room of a pirate that was to be boarded and taken; but he seemed to lack heart
for such an enterprise as his opening of that door, and his entrance into that
berth signified. He formed his resolution, and stepping to the door, knocked. He
received no answer, whereupon he entered. He started as though he was confronted
by something totally different from the lady he expected to see. In truth Mr
Lawrence had never seen Lucy Acton with her hair down. Always when they met her
hair had been dressed in the prevailing mode, with a little fringing or
shadowing of wisps on her fair brow and curls on the beautiful outlines of her
shoulders. Whether her hair had become disengaged from its fastenings in the
night, or whether the deck mattress had done half and she with her fingers had
let fall the rest, matters not; she was before him, clothed all about her back
and breast with her abundance of soft dark hair. She was kneeling or crouching
at the breakfast tray which was upon the deck, and when Mr Lawrence entered, she
held in one hand a piece of cold tongue, a bite or two out of which she was
eating, and in the other hand a white biscuit. The cup was half-full of tea. She
did not lift her eyes when he entered, nor seem to be aware that another
occupied the cabin besides herself. She looked at the piece of tongue with a
smile which was a miracle of idiotism in its perfect conveyance of no meaning,
then bit what was in her mouth, then smiled again; and again as suddenly frowned
with a marvellous swiftness of transformation of facial expression. So that
whilst she looked, she appeared idiotic in one instant, in the next she wore a
strange and alarming look of angry madness, dreadful to witness, working in her
lineaments so sweetly feminine, so purely gentle. Her natural colour had not
wholly faded from her cheek, but the bloom was very faint indeed, once removed
only perhaps from pallor, so that her eyes, which in the full glow of her beauty
were as a sorceress's for liquid softness and the lambent lights of passions and
emotions, making one think of a dark midnight sea illuminated by the moon,
gathered a keenness of outline, a vitality of colour and play which of
themselves would have suffered her to pass as the mad girl she was or figured to
be. "I wish, madam," he said, "I could see you seated more comfortably. But I
wish more that you could see into my heart, what I feel there, and how my pain
is infinitely keener than yours, because my love for you, my inexorable passion
for you, my determination to win you and make you my own for life, paralysing
the efforts of those who would keep us asunder, make the very soul within me
shrink to behold you so uneasy, so unhappy, so reluctant to cast upon me one
look--even one look--to persuade me that my stratagem was based upon my
conviction that I am not indifferent to you, nay, that deep in your spirit your
love for me dwells as a jewel in a casket that yourself dare not open, though
willing that I should." She continued at one moment smiling her idiot smile, at
another moment frowning her madwoman's frown, whilst he spoke. Then looking up
she seemed to perceive him for the first time, sprang erect with a wonderful
convulsion of terror in her whole form, and a sharp, short, piercing shriek of
distress. "Who are you, sir?" she cried, brushing her hair by a fling of both
hands from her brow and cheeks. "How durst you intrude upon me? Do you know I am
a woman--a lady--a lady--a princess--the Princess Tatters, sir, the daughter of
a great and powerful lord who would condemn you to be hanged if he caught you
here!" It was sure that neither the spirit nor the inspiration of the genius of
the famous Kitty O'Hara was far distant from her child when this sweet and
astonishing young creature executed the above feat of dramatic gymnastics and
delivered the words just recorded. The bewildered man stared at her as though he
was himself bereft of reason. Amazement, confusion, love, pity, horror, doubt
were amongst the expressions which ran through his countenance like shadow
chasing shadow. "My dearest madam!" he cried. "My sweetest Lucy!" and here he
clasped his hands and swayed with passion in his posture of piteous and painful
appeal, which rendered him as a figure a really noble piece of flesh and blood,
exalted as it was by its peculiar manly beauty of face. "Is it possible that you
do not know me? How can I act to undo the dreadful distress my love has brought
upon you? Oh, thou fair and everlasting darling of my heart, have those secret
sweet feelings with which you regard me no power to influence your moods, to
control these strange manifestations, to----"

He drew his breath in a gasp and stopped, arrested by her suddenly turning her
back upon him and bowing with the exquisite grace of the finished curtsy of
those days to what Mr Lawrence guessed was an apparition. "It is good of your
Royal Highness," she exclaimed in softly modulated, respectful tones, uttered in
a measure that gave them a courtier-like dignity, "to visit me in my loneliness
and distress. The great Duke of Clarence, sir"--again she curtsied--"will ever
be remembered with love and pride by a kingdom whose glory lies in the deeds of
her sailors, for his devotion to the sea, to those who sail it, and who bleed
for their country upon it." She seemed to listen in a profoundly respectful
attitude to the reply of the vision, and then said as though in answer to it:
"Your Royal Highness, I am imprisoned in this ship by a man who is the son of a
sailor and was himself a sailor until he was expelled from the Service of which
your Royal Highness is one of the most brilliant lights, by a shameful and a
barbarous act unworthy of an officer and a gentleman. He hopes to marry me, sir,
by stealing me from my father, who was a captain in the Royal Navy, and who
trusted him. I entreat your Royal Highness's influence to procure my immediate
liberation from this wicked man that I may return to my father who will be
breaking his heart over my disappearance and loss." She pronounced the words
"who will be breaking his heart" in a plaintive Irish accent. But it did not
occur to the listener that the apparition she apostrophised was not H.R.H. the
Duke of Clarence but Mrs Kitty O'Hara, her mother, who was as famous in her day
as Peg Woffington and equal to Mrs Jordan in some scenes of romping and
roguishness. Like most sailors of his time Mr Lawrence possessed the instinct of
superstition, a quality or element which has contributed the most brilliant of
the rays to the glory of the romance of the sea. He was sensible of an emotion
of awe as he watched Lucy bowing to and addressing a royal apparition so well
known to him as the Sailor Prince whose viewless eye might be upon him, whose
invisible ear might be taking in his story whilst the wild-haired girl bowed
apparently to the bulkhead or addressed the thin air. She appeared to be
listening: then with a profound curtsy, said: "I thank your Royal Highness for
your gracious condescension. It is not my wish that this unhappy man should be
severely punished. If, sir, it should be your pleasure to order him to be
executed, I would travel twenty miles upon my knees to beg him off. I am reduced
to this one gown, and am now the Princess Tatters. My cruel gaoler will not
suffer me to use a knife to cut the food he sends me. Look at that tray, sir! I
feed upon the floor because I have been made a beggar of, and as though I were a
savage, I am obliged to use my fingers to eat with." Here she paused and looked
round at the tray as though she would have Mr Lawrence catch a sight of her
face, whose composite expression of indignation, distress, and eager yearning
for help and sympathy was heightened and scored by the mad look her eyes wore,
and the unmeaning smile which deformed her mouth. She again addressed the
apparition. "Can I trust your Royal Highness with a secret?... How good you are,
sir! Your Royal Highness shall see my treasure, but you are too great as a
Prince, and too virtuous as a man, to betray me." With that, and looking round
about her with insane cunning glittering in her eyes as diamonds tremble in the
dancer's ear, as though she feared she might be watched by another in that
berth, albeit her manner persuaded Mr Lawrence that she did not know he was
looking on, she went to the locker, lifted the lid and disclosed her treasure-
hidings of rings, soap, and the rest of it, looking up meanwhile as though into
the face of a person who was bending a little to catch a sight of that nest of
feathers, but looking up with such marvellous vitality in the composition of her
lineaments, and in the penetrating glare of those eyes of hers which in hours of
repose and content seemed to brood upon what they viewed, that Mr Lawrence could
almost swear that he beheld the spectral shadow of the Royal apparition into
whose face she gazed, stooping and peering into the nest at the end of the
locker. She spoke again to the phantom, but this time in such a mere muttering
of words that the listener caught nothing of her meaning, and then sank her
figure in a profoundly respectful curtsy whilst she seemed to kiss a hand
extended to her. She stood a few moments with her hands clasped before her at
arm's length, and her head bowed as though deep in thought, then went to the
tray again, knelt beside it and continued her meal, taking the biscuit and the
tongue in her hands without seeming to be in the least conscious of the presence
of Mr Lawrence. "Madam," said he softly, "after so lively a conversation with
your Royal but unrevealed visitor, have you no word for me--no look----"

"I have no piano in this cabin, sir," she answered, without raising her eyes.
"And I have no heart to sing without music." "I do not ask you to sing," he
said. "Give me but a word, give me but a look. You tear my heart by this
behaviour." She looked up at him suddenly with her eyes trembling cunningly
again as when she asked the phantom to view her treasure, and with a look
impossible to portray but which convinced him that she did not know him, and in
a voice that was almost tender with its note of seeking after sympathy and help,
she exclaimed: "Are you come here to liberate me, to restore me to my father,
who weeps because he thinks I am lost, to rescue me from the wicked arts of a
treacherous man--oh, tell me so, tell me so!" she cried, springing to her feet,
and extending her arms. What could the unfortunate, infatuated, handsome rascal
say? Her appeal was poignant by virtue of her deep distress, the misery of her
condition, the insane disposition of her beautiful face, wild and almost white
in its shadowing of hair. What could he say to her? His countenance was filled
with the confusion of his mind. His heart beat tumultuously with love that raged
with its sense of helplessness. These phrases do not exaggerate a state that
nothing but the highest form of genius could delineate in its astounding
complexity of adoration, despair, horror at the consequences of his own lightly
undertaken act, honour that could be no stranger to a valiant nature, and a
resolution to persevere and conquer as a consequence of the character that could
lay upon its owner's soul this enormous obligation of the betrayal of the girl
he worshipped and the man who had stood his friend when the world was sterile,
and he must either flee the country or rot in gaol. "Madam," he said in a broken
voice, "it is plain that I have brought upon me something that I had not
foreseen, and if you are the sufferer, I am the loser, and of the two the keener
sufferer by my loss. This door, madam, will remain unlocked, and you are at
liberty to come and go as you please." He made her one of those elegant and
stately bows which was his greatest charm in the eyes of old Miss Acton, and
left the berth, closing the door. Did he believe her mad, or did he conceive
that she was merely feigning a part? It may be at once said that he had very
little doubt that her ruthless abduction based upon the fear that her father had
met with a serious injury, coupled with her imprisonment and the terrors excited
in her by the knowledge that she was being carried away into a remote part of
the world and that she was entirely at the mercy of a man who had proved himself
a scoundrel, had disordered her intellect, had played havoc with her nerves and
brain, so that though she might recover her reason should she be rescued or
returned to her home, she must continue mad whilst in his ship or associated
with him. If he doubted her insanity at all his suspicion had no stiffer ground
than the shallow sand on which reposed his hope that she was acting. Throughout
this passage he did not think to consider her as the child of a great actress.
To him she had always been a gentle, sweet, undemonstrative girl, ingenuous in
speech, kind, charitable, beloved by the poor, one whose pursuits were amiable
and pure. She was nimble and poetical with her pencil. She sang pretty songs
prettily. Her beauty informed with a colour of its own the melodies her fingers
evoked from the keys or strings of the instruments she touched. He could not
think of her as having the talents of an actress, or even the tastes of one. He
had never heard of her taking a part in a performance above a charade. Nothing,
therefore, but madness or an extraordinary dramatic genius which it was
impossible for him to think of her as possessing, could create those parts which
she had enacted before him in a manner so immoderately life-like, so absolutely
in unison with what he himself could conceive of the behaviour of madness, that
deep in his soul might be found the conviction that she had lost her reason, and
that his passionate, unprincipled love was the cause of it. Shortly before
twelve the people of the _Minorca_ beheld on the starboard bow one of those
bland and beautiful pictures of the sea which have vanished from the face of the
waters to be seen no more. The Lizard was painted in a soft, blue looming mass
against the sky, and to the right of it upon the sea-line, there sprang like
stars in their rising, the white cloths of ships--a numerous convoy from Torbay;
they rose fast with a pleasant breeze on the quarter, and one hundred and sixty
sail could have been counted with three line-of-battle ships and some frigates
to look after them. They were of all rigs known in those days, from the
commanding Indiaman armed like a man-o'-war, hoisting her huge main and fore-
yards by jeers, loosing her vast topsails out of the tops, clothed as no ship
now goes clothed with sprit-sail and sprit-topsail, water sails and other
devices in canvas to catch even the faintest cat's paw that should tarnish the
burnished calm, down to the little snow bound to Lisbon; a gallant, an imposing,
a splendid sight, when every hull was shaped upon the sea which seemed to be
transformed into a mighty plain, brilliant for leagues with the shining white
cones of tents. Mr Lawrence, who was on deck at noon, wisely concluding that the
then peculiar rig of the _Minorca_ would challenge the attention and excite the
suspicion of one or another of the convoying men-of-war, hoisted British
colours, and as no observation of the sun was deemed necessary when there hung
plain in sight the famous promontory of the Lizard from which a departure was to
be made, he overhung the rail gazing apparently with absorbed interest at the
grand spectacle of ships which were making a more southerly course than he.
Indeed he was so absorbed either by that "vision splendid" or by thinking of the
mad pictures he had witnessed in the little berth from which he had lately
emerged, that he failed to notice that some of the hands forward for whom the
dinner-hour had arrived and who were hanging about the caboose, were staring at
him with a degree of obstinacy which perhaps had he regarded it he would have
deemed something more than strange, as they had a fine show to arrest and detain
their gaze on the bow. One of the most steadfast of these starers was the man Mr
Pledge familiarly styled Old Jim. At noon Mr Eagle, who had been in charge of
the watch since eight o'clock, was relieved by Mr Pledge, and went below. On
entering the cabin on his way to his berth, he started and stopped dead on
beholding Miss Lucy Acton standing at the table and looking up through the
skylight. She had gathered up her hair, but in such wise that had it not been
for the jockey-shaped hat which she had resumed she would have looked as wild as
though her tresses hung about her shoulders and down her back as in her berth.
If she was sensible of the entrance of Mr Eagle she did not for some moments
running into a minute or two appear to notice him, but continued to gaze fixedly
through the skylight as though she beheld something that riveted her vision
through the open glazed cover. Mr Eagle did not speak. Indeed, having started,
he came to a stand and scarcely moved, staring. Of course he knew that the young
lady was on board, but realisation had not been completed in his narrow, shallow
understanding, because down to this moment he had not been able to use his eyes
to see her. But now she stood before him, Miss Lucy Acton indeed, but Lord
defend him! how changed! "Why," he reflected with the velocity of thought, "it
was only a few days ago, in a manner of speaking, that she comes aboard this
vessel when we was lying at the wharf and asks after my rheumatism, and says
she'd like to make a voyage to the West Indies if the weather could be kept fine
and the sea smooth. And I couldn't help thinking to myself that I never could
imagine a smarter and a more modish young party than she looked, whilst now--
well, if this rooning away to sea with a man is to be called love, bust me if it
ain't only another name for madness. For what young lady in such sarcumstances
as that there with a beautiful 'ome, carriages, sarvants to wait upon her, and a
loving father to give her everything that she wants, and more than she wants,
would dream of rooning away to sea with a man with no other clothes than those
on her back, onless she was as mad as that there Miss Lucy Acton looks." She
turned her eyes upon him when the surly shell-back had come to this part of his
thoughts, and frowned without recognition in her face as he read it. She stared
at him, not with the heavy-lidded, beautiful eyes of Lucy Acton, but with orbs
of sight whose glances seemed keen as rays of light as they shot from under her
knitted brows. Though her fair forehead was deformed by a scowl, her lips were
curved into a meaningless smile--the very expression of the idiot's highest
facial effort, and all meaning or no meaning that was in her countenance was
accentuated by the unusual, uncommon, very faint tinge which had taken the place
of the habitual bloom of her cheeks and paled her into an aspect of distraction,
wildness, and insanity. "Do you belong to this ship?" she asked. "Of course I
do, ma'am," answered Mr Eagle, with profound astonishment moving in his face as
though it were some vitalising subcutaneous influence that stirred in one part
of his visage at a time. "Don't you recollect me, ma'am?" "Who is in command of
this ship?" she enquired in a low, harsh voice, almost a whisper. "Whoever he
is," she rattled on, "I am his prisoner. I am being carried away into captivity,
I who am a princess, though soon to be clothed in tatters. If you are a man with
a heart have mercy upon me, and turn this ship and steer me home!" Eagle stood
dumbfounded. He was prepared to hear her represent her state in such fiction as
had been preconcerted between her and Mr Lawrence. But he never could have
supposed that simulation of madness was the posture of mind she had pre-arranged
to feign, and she looked so mad and spoke so madly that it was impossible for
such a stubborn, sour old fool to see the truth or know what she meant. He gazed
at her with the vacancy of a confounded mind, perplexed not infinitely, for few
understandings were more limited, and then said: "I've got no power here, ma'am.
It isn't for me to steer the ship, if you was to condescend to go on your bended
knees, which the Lord forbid. Indeed, ma'am, I don't know what to say, and only
know what I've been told, and can but judge by what I see. It's not for me as
mate of this vessel to mess about with something that may be all right or all
wrong. There's one in this ship as could break me and would break me if so be I
gave him the chance, and a chance he'd find"--here he lowered his voice and
looked up at the skylight--"though no other captain would think of taking
advantage of it. If you've been wronged, I'm 'eartily sorry for it. And if it's
all right, why then, ma'am, I wish you joy, though it's a very bold henterprise
--a very bold henterprise," he added, and he gloomily shook his head and sourly
viewed her. Whilst this singular conversation was being conducted in the cabin,
a scene in the tragicomedy of which this book is the relation was being prepared
on deck. The convoy on the starboard bow had considerably risen and was
scattering, and flags from the armed fabrics which watched the vessels streamed
at gaff end and mizzen royal mast-head in signal to the slow sailers and to
other ships whose blockheads of masters, indifferent to the safety of the
bottoms they commanded, acted without reference to the possibility of the enemy
heaving into view, and some of them with the contemptible determination to prove
their independence by giving the commodore and the naval officers in the other
ships as much trouble and annoyance as skilless seamanship could provide. Mr
Lawrence kept the _Minorca_ away a point or two that he might hold the convoy in
view and hang upon their quarter without drawing close as though he was one of
the convoyed ships, for it must be intelligible even to the most inexperienced
in sea-going affairs that Mr Lawrence had no wish to invite the attention of one
of those British men-o'-war. He leaned over the rail, and then walked the deck,
whilst Mr Pledge paced to leeward. On a sudden Mr Lawrence became aware that the
whole ship's company were on deck forward in the neighbourhood of the caboose,
and that a few talked together with frequent glances aft, whilst others stared
in the direction in which he moved, deliberately and obstinately. He stood a
moment before he made a turn for another quarterdeck excursion and viewed them,
and then walked right aft with his back turned to the bows of the ship, and in
such an attitude that should the man at the wheel look over his shoulder he
would not be able to see what he was doing. What he did was to pull from the
pocket of his coat a pistol whose priming he quickly examined; he replaced the
weapon, which was of a lighter pattern than the cumbrous engine which in those
days men stuffed into their belts, and none by observation of his coat would
conceive that he went about armed with a loaded pistol. This done he wheeled
round and walked the usual distance forward. As he advanced, one of the sailors
came away from a little crowd of men manifestly with the object of addressing
him. This man was Pledge's friend "Old Jim." He was about forty-five, with a
neck as long as a piece of broken pillar, and lantern jaws deformed by a growth
of mustard-coloured hair sprouting in single fibres. He had but three or four
teeth in his gums, two of which shot outwards and lifted his upper lip. He was
generally reckoned the ugliest man in Old Harbour Town, and esteemed by his
brethren of the jacket as one of the best sailors that ever stepped a ship's
deck. "May I have a word with you, sir?" he exclaimed in a coarse, hoarse,
broken voice. "What do you want?" said Mr Lawrence, halting and viewing the
fellow with a frowning face and lips which grew tight-set the instant he closed
them. "I beg your pardon, sir----" began the man. "To the point! Out with it and
bear a hand!" exclaimed Mr Lawrence with a stern, contemptuous glance at the
huddle of faces forward, and then slightly turning his head to see in the tail
of his eye what Mr Pledge was doing. "Well, sir, it's like this," said the man,
pronouncing his words forcibly in his determination to show a bold front. "Us
sailors who agreed to sail this 'ere ship to Kingston in Jamaica have got to
hear that we are bound to another port, though where it is ain't know'd."
"What's this matter got to do with you?" said Mr Lawrence fiercely. "It's got to
do with us all, sir, not alone with me," was the answer. "If it's the owner's
wish that this vessel shall be carried to another port, there she shall go; and
so you have it. Now, go forward!" said Mr Lawrence, and he moved as though about
to turn on his heel. A murmur broke from the men. "We are not willing to carry
this ship to any other port than the port we agreed to, sir," said Old Jim,
speaking with great firmness, the murmur that had risen behind him having
stimulated his fortitude. "I think you are a mutinous dog," said Mr Lawrence in
a snarling, sarcastic voice, but preserving a frown that was portentous of an
intellectual thunderstorm through the darkness of which the eyes would flash
lightning. "Do you see those men-of-war out yonder? I need but make a signal to
bring an armed crew aboard, and then you shall be carried into the first port
that's convenient and discharged to make way for a crew of willing men--men
willing to obey their commander, who must be willing to obey his owner."
"There's no good in threatening us with your armed crew. We agreed for
Kingston," said a voice. "Who said that?" shouted Mr Lawrence, with the blood
red in his face. "Me--Thomas Hanlin," was the answer, and a sailor made two or
three steps and stood close to Old Jim. "Mr Pledge," cried Mr Lawrence, "clap
that man in irons! go and fetch them, sir!" and rounding again upon the man, and
approaching him by several paces, he pulled the pistol from his pocket and
levelling it direct at the man's head, cried in a tone that left not an
instant's doubt of his resolution in the mind of every man who saw and heard:
"If you utter another syllable I'll send this ball through your brains!" As he
flung himself into this posture of taking aim, with some of the crew about the
caboose cowering as do men who seek to dodge a missile, whilst Old Jim and the
other stood in the foreground steadily staring at the enraged officer with the
blood in his cheeks, Lucy Acton came on deck, and, standing with her hand upon
the companion-way, wild-eyed, and pale and dishevelled, with a mien of
distraction which was a marvellously true copy of madness in momentary halt,
watched the proceedings. CHAPTER XIV

THE _LOUISA ANN_

It was on the 4th of June 1805 that a large, handsome three-masted schooner was
softly, with a keen cut-water, rending a way for herself over a smooth breast of
sea. The sound under the bows was that of a knife shearing through satin, and
the note fell softly with a silken noise upon the ear, without tinkle of bell-
bubble, or serpent-like hiss of expiring foam. Upon the stern of this schooner
was painted in long white letters the word _Aurora_. The breeze was so light
that it was scarcely to be felt on deck. The gaff topsails faintly swelled with
a summer-like softness and tenderness of gleaming curve and delicately-fingered
shadow; but the heavier canvas hung with an occasional sway of boom only, as
though the little ship was at rest in a harbour into whose water breathed the
slow, low swell of the outer sea. It was half-past seven in the morning; the sky
was blue from line to line, but the monotony of the morning's brilliance of
azure was relieved by a few little steam-white clouds which floated small violet
island shadows under them. The horizon was a clear line, a sweep of crystal
against the blue crystalline heaven it brimmed to. The decks had been washed
down, the ropes coiled away, and everything was neat, sparkling with the swabbed
brine from pump or bucket, and the whole a pleasant picture to the eye with its
lofty fabric of wide white canvas, its glossy black sides descending into a
ruddy coat of copper sheathing which charged the water immediately under with a
yellow light as of fire, the canvas forward lifting and drooping in wings of
triangular cloth like the pinions of a sea bird that gently flutters its plumes
as it slowly breasts the water to the impulse of its webbed feet. Smoke from the
chimney of the little galley rose for a space in a straight line, then curved
like the liquid column of a fountain. The cook was preparing breakfast for the
cabin, and the savoury smell of eggs and bacon in the process of cooking made
the scarcely breeze-disturbed atmosphere in the neighbourhood of the schooner's
kitchen shore-like and home-like, and in every sense delicious to hungry sailors
whose breakfast was black tea, ship's biscuit, and such remains of yesterday's
beef as they might have preserved. The _Minorca_ had started early on the
morning of 3rd May. The _Aurora_ followed her in pursuit on the 8th May, sailing
on the afternoon of that day. Her nimble keel had been delayed by contrary
winds, and down to this date--namely, 4th June--she had failed to even approach
the average daily speed which Captain Weaver had predicted of her in her chase
of the barque. She had met with one adventure only so far: it was sufficiently
filled, however, with excitement and danger to suffice for twenty. When in the
Chops of the Channel the weather thickened all round: a dingy drizzle of rain
curtained the horizon into the distance of a cannon shot, and out of this sullen
dimness which was not to be shifted nor broken into spaces showing recesses, the
surge came in a steel-dark curve upon whose polished back the foam that fell
from the head of the billow cast a deeper gloom filled with raven gleams like
water at night. A bright look-out was kept. The _Aurora_ under all plain sail
sprang through these glooming waters, and the brine swept from her weather-bow
in sharp shootings of brilliant hail. Suddenly a little before eleven o'clock in
the forenoon the deck was hailed from aloft, and a sail reported three points on
the weather-bow. She came out of the thickness like one of the heads of seas, in
a shining light of canvas; she was sailing large; she showed herself as an
iceberg leaps from the snowstorm of the Antarctic ocean. A brig-of-war with foam
to the hawse pipes, and the white band along her side broken by guns! She was
within a couple of miles when she shaped herself out of the rain-thickened
murkiness. The _Aurora_ was making a free wind, and every stitch of canvas was
doing its work. Was yonder stranger French or English? The Admiral and Captain
Acton, who were both on deck, left Captain Weaver to his own devices, sensible
that they were in the hands of a shrewd, well-seasoned, practical sailor, who
knew his ship better than they did. "We'll test her," said he, and the tricolour
was run aloft. No flag aboard the brig was to be seen in response. The schooner
was crossing the stranger's bows when the brig suddenly let fly a shotted gun at
her. Whatever her nationality it was plain she was not satisfied with the show
of bunting flying aboard a vessel that any practised eye could at once see was
not of French paternity. "Keep her away three points!" cried Captain Weaver,
which shift of helm would leave the schooner in fuller possession of her powers
of flight. And immediately afterwards he shouted: "Haul down that lie, and hoist
the British Ensign! She shall have the truth, and it'll make the truth known to
us." Scarcely was the ensign blowing from its halliards when the brig fired a
second shot, and as the passage of the _Aurora_ and the shifting of her helm had
brought the brig's trysail-gaff into view the schooner's crew saw the French
flag streaming from the end of it. Immediately the _Aurora's_ change of course
was perceived the brig trimmed her canvas for a chase; she set stun-sails from
lower boom to both topgallant yard-arms; these additional wings threw her out
against the weeping gloom in a large, looming, menacing mass irradiated by an
occasional flash of bow gun which dyed her canvas with a sudden yellow glare as
of lightning. But these explosions were soon stopped, and the pursuit was
continued in silence. It was idle, however, to call it a pursuit. It was a
procession with the leader walking fast ahead and the follower lagging. On board
the _Aurora_ they saw the brig's round bows bursting the surge into sheets of
brilliant whiteness which raced under her row of iron teeth like the foaming
cascade of a weir; whilst alongside the keen fore-foot and the clean copper and
beautifully moulded run of the _Aurora_ the brine swept past with no more noise
than a shower of rain upon the sea, in a narrow band on either hand which,
uniting at the rudder, rushed off in a ribbon of wake that shone like pearl. It
was not long before the brig that was chasing on the schooner's weather-quarter
swelled and paled in distortion with the encompassing thickness, and presently
she was a pallid square, and then she became a smudge, after which the rain
curtain dropped upon her, and she vanished. Then it was that Captain Weaver
luffed the schooner to windward of her course, and she went ahead with
flattened-in sheets, leaning to it and severing the flint-coloured billow with
her sharp tooth of fore-foot: and so she held on, until, had the weather
cleared, the brig, even had she taken in her stun-sails and hauled the wind with
yards sweated fore and aft, would have been found dead to leeward and far away
beyond all dream of prize money amongst the French crew. "I can't conceive of
anything," said Captain Weaver, smiling with something of pride at the Admiral
and Captain Acton, "born--I don't care in what shipwright's yard, whether
British or French or Roosian or Spaniard--as is going to have more than a look
at the _Aurora_ when it's her pleasure to show nothing but her heels."
Nevertheless it was an adventure fraught with danger to the schooner, and
neither the Admiral nor Captain Acton needed to be informed that had the weather
been a little thicker and the brig a knot or two faster so that she could have
brought the schooner within range of her broad-side, it was odds if the fall of
a mast or the ruin of a sail had not resulted in the _Aurora's_ company finding
a lodging in the brig or under hatches in their own little ship and sailing for
the nearest French port, with the pursuit of the _Minorca_ immediately ended.
But the essential object of Captain Weaver and the very first desire of Captain
Acton and the Admiral was the overtaking of the _Minorca_, her capture, and the
rescue of Lucy. To this end it was extremely necessary that they should speak
ships to ascertain if the barque whose rig would make her remarkable had been
sighted or spoken, and if so when and where? They had fallen in with two or
three vessels which after very careful inspection they had considered safe to
speak. But they could obtain no information. Nothing answering to a ship rigged
as the _Minorca_ was had been sighted. So Captain Weaver stuck as best he could
to his course for Rio, though much hindered by opposing winds. It was to be
hoped if the _Aurora_ lay fair in the wake of the _Minorca_ that the winds which
had delayed the schooner had also baffled the barque. Now, as we have seen, the
4th day of June had come, and the _Aurora_, with a light air aloft which put a
gentle breathing into her gaff top-sails and lighter canvas, was slowly scoring
her way through the heart of a wide circle of Atlantic ocean, along which the
swell ran gently, whilst the surface at a distance resembled a motionless sheet
of ice under a blue sky. Admiral Lawrence was walking the deck alone. Captain
Weaver stood on the weather side of the wheel viewing the vessel as she
leisurely floated forward. They had kept a look-out aloft with the perseverance
of a whaler. The signalman was furnished with a glass with which he continuously
swept the sea-line from beam to beam. The Admiral, great as his trouble was,
looked uncommonly well and hearty. His cheeks wore a deeper dye of colour. He
rolled along the deck with enjoyment of the sensation of the plank, whose
motions were timed by the sea. As he rounded in one of his fore-breakfast
strolls, Captain Acton stepped out of the deck-house, for this schooner was
furnished with a deck structure a little sunk so that you entered it by a short
flight of steps, and in front of it stood the wheel. The house contained six
berths each lighted with a window; the foremost larboard berth was the pantry,
and next door to it, abutting upon the sleeping place which the Admiral
occupied, was the spare room for Lucy. Captain Acton's face as he emerged was
grave and pale. His restlessness and anxiety had increased with the voyage and
the obstruction of the wind. Realisation of the loss of his daughter was a pain
in him that was as a wound deeply planted, and there was no remedy but the
recovery of the girl. He joined the Admiral after looking aloft and around him,
and exclaimed: "Very slow work, sir. If it's to be this sort of thing the
_Minorca_ will not find us at Rio; and if she fetches Rio before we do, my child
is lost to me." "I cannot see that, sir," answered the Admiral. "What can my son
do? She will not have him, and he must therefore leave her at Rio, because I
have never imagined that he will be able to sell the barque and her cargo
without exciting enquiries which he dare not challenge. If therefore he puts
into Rio, it will be with the hope of inducing Miss Lucy to marry him there and
promptly--an issue which he will have satisfied himself upon before his arrival.
And if, as 'tis certain, she will have nothing to do with him, he will leave her
at Rio and make haste to sail to where he can dispose of your property without
risk. But," he continued cheerily, observing that his companion held his peace,
manifestly unconvinced by the Admiral's arguments, "we have no right to assume
that the weather is always to consist of baffling breezes or light airs like
this; and, sir, consider that what is bad for the schooner may--indeed should--
be bad for the barque. There is but one course for Rio from the port we hail
from. I have watched Weaver's navigation with anxiety, and have full confidence
in his judgment. I have again and again considered his chart and prickings, and
in all that he said and says I have agreed, and still agree." "But," said
Captain Acton in a tone that marked the depression of his spirits, "you must
remember that this visible girdle of sea has, even in brilliant weather and from
the mast-head, but a narrow width, and we might even now be abreast of the
_Minorca_ which is sailing yonder, or yonder, hull and spars down to a fathom
below the sensible edge." "We've allowed for that, sir," said the Admiral. "'Tis
a contingency which has had a very full share of contemplation. If we miss her
and pass her in the way you suggest, there is still Rio to receive us, where we
will await the _Minorca's_ arrival. And in that you will get your way, and crown
this struggle with success. So that let us miss her by failing to sight her as
you say, it can but mean that we shall be first and ready for Mr Lawrence."
"True," answered Captain Acton. At that moment the man at the mast-head with the
telescope still at his eye, shouted the magic words: "Sail ho!" "Where away?"
yelled Captain Weaver from the side of the wheel. "Right ahead, sir." "How
standing?" bawled Weaver. After a brief pause: "Coming for us, sir. We are
rising her." But the schooner might be rising her through overtaking her, and
nearly a quarter of an hour must elapse before the sailor aloft could shout with
emphasis down to the deck that the sail was standing right for them and that she
was square rigged. The circumstance of a sail heaving into sight was necessarily
brimful of excitement and interest to Captain Acton and the Admiral. She might
prove a peaceful trader or a man-of-war, a friend or an enemy, a privateer, or
as likely as not the _Minorca_ rolling home in charge of Eagle and her crew,
who, conscious of the presence of Lucy on board, and having learnt that the
ship's destination was any port but Kingston, had mutinied, and locked up the
Captain in his cabin, and turned tail for Old Harbour Town. But the breakfast
bell had been rung, and leaving Captain Weaver and his mate to keep an eye upon
the stranger and to act with the prudence which was to be expected of a man of
Weaver's sagacity and experience, Captain Acton and his companion entered the
deck-house. Here was a cheerful little interior, gay with sunshine, which
sparkled in the furniture of the breakfast-table, on which smoked as relishable
and hearty a meal as was to be obtained at sea in those days. The two gentlemen
found much to talk about, and perhaps because of an argument they had fallen
into, their sitting was somewhat lengthened: until just when they were about to
rise, Captain Weaver came to the cabin door, and after, with the old-fashioned
courtesy of his period, begging their pardon, he exclaimed: "The sail's now
clear in the glass from the deck." "What is she, do you think?" said Captain
Acton. "She looks to me, sir, a worn-out bit of a brig about a hundred tons.
Most sartinly there's nothing to be afraid of in her." "She's not the
_Minorca_?" cried the Admiral. "No, sir, she carries no royals." On this Captain
Acton and his friend went on deck. The schooner was travelling three or four
knots one way, and the stranger was heading directly for her at some small pace,
so that the speed of the two vessels being combined, the sail might be expected
to show a clear hull; which she did, and with the aid of their telescopes,
Captain Acton and Sir William confirmed the conjecture of Captain Weaver. She
was either a little brig or a brigantine--her after-sails were concealed; her
burden was very small. The dusty and rusty complexion of her canvas neutralised
the brilliance which most ships' sails shine with when the silver glory of the
morning sun pours strong upon them. By half-past nine, three bells by the
schooner's clock, the stranger was on the larboard-bow with her main topsail to
the mast, and so close that it seemed almost possible to distinguish the faces
of her people. She was a little brig, and an immense but ragged British ensign
fluttered at her trysail gaff-end. She had been painted black, but the fret of
an ocean long kept, the hurl and whirl of prodigious seas which were like to
founder her, the blistering heat of tropic suns, the viewless fangs of the wind
had so worn her sides that she was mottled with patches of different colour as
though she was suffering from some distemper which ravaged vessels of her sort
when the voyage was of great length. She rolled wearily, as though her old bones
were worn out, and every time she hove her bilge to the eye she disclosed a very
landed estate of weed, long, serpentine, trailing, like the huge eel-like
growths which sway from black rocks in the white wash of breakers. "Ho, the
schooner ahoy!" shouted a man, standing close to the larboard main-shrouds.
"Hallo!" was the answer from Captain Weaver. "We are the brig _Louisa Ann_ of
Whitby from Callao, one hundred and seventy days out, bound to the port we
belongs to. We are short of provisions, and should feel grateful if you could
let us have a cask of beef." This was clearly delivered, and every syllable
caught on board the _Aurora_. Captain Weaver looked at Captain Acton, who
immediately assented. "Send a boat and we'll give you what you want!" shouted
Weaver. A few men were to be seen racing aft, and in a minute or two a squab
boat descended from a pair of davits as stout as catheads with four men in her,
two to row, one to bale, and one to steer. Whilst they were coming Captain
Weaver said to Captain Acton: "The master of that brig, sir, seems to have his
wife aboard." But though Captain Acton and Admiral Lawrence heard him, their
eyes were busy with the boat as she approached, and neither raised a glass to
determine the appearance of the female. The man who steered the boat was the
captain; he climbed over the side of the _Aurora_, and presented the aspect of a
man not unlike Mr John Eagle; he looked sour with succession of bad weather,
with little ships that made nothing but leeway on a wind, with immensely long
voyages, with shortness of rations and fresh water, and with the aridity of the
ocean which he had been forced to keep for nearly the whole of his life. "I
should be much obliged for a cask of beef, sir," he said, after touching the
narrow penthouse of a queerly constructed fur cap. "It's still a long way home
for that there _Louisa Ann_, whose bin a hundred and seventy days in bringing us
so fur." "Have you spoke any ships lately?" asked Captain Weaver. "The last we
spoke," answered the man, "was the day before yesterday. And we took out of her
by request of her master, a young female who was said to have gone mad, but for
my part I never met with anybody saner. She's an additional mouth, and a cask of
beef would be grateful." "A young female!" said Captain Acton. "What was the
name of the vessel you took her from?" At this point the Admiral levelled his
glass at the brig. The master of the _Louisa Ann_ went to the side and shouted
down, received an answer, returned and said: "Her name was the _Minorca_." "The
_Minorca_!" shouted Captain Acton. "The day before yesterday! And you received a
young lady from her?" "By God!" cried Admiral Lawrence in a voice of thunder,
letting fly the profanity with the bellows of a boatswain, "why, Acton, there's
Lucy aboard that brig! I can make her out plain in this glass." "She's a
beautiful young lady--highly eddicated," said the master of _Louisa Ann_.
Captain Acton levelled his telescope. He did not need to long survey the figure
of the woman who was standing near the tiller that was grasped by a man. The
lenses brought her face close to him. "It is Lucy!" he said, in a voice in which
awe and amazement were so mingled that one should say the apparition of a ghost,
of something spiritual and fearful to the observer, could not have filled the
hollow of his mouth with that tone. He was now seized with a passion of delight.
"Lower a boat, Captain Weaver! Lower a boat!" he shouted, losing his habitual
gentlemanlike coolness and calm in the overwhelming sensations of that moment.
"Bear a hand now! Be quick! It is the lady for whom we have been chasing the
_Minorca_. Quick, I say!" He stamped his foot. "She is waving her handkerchief!"
cried the Admiral, with his eye at the telescope. "God bless her! God bless us
all! What a miracle of discovery!" "A relation, sir?" said the master of the
_Louisa Ann_, addressing Captain Weaver, whom he had immediately perceived was
not of the standing of the two Naval gentlemen. "My daughter, sir!" cried
Captain Acton. "Then I'm proud and 'appy to have been the instrument of
a-bringing her to you. I'm a father myself and can understand your feelings,
sir," said the captain of the brig. But congratulations were not in place in
such a moment as this. A fine boat of the _Aurora_ was alongside manned by five
sailors, who being clad in much the same sort of apparel, carried a sort of
warlike aspect as though the boat was proceeding from something heavily armed
and much to be feared. Captain Acton and the Admiral sprang into her with the
agility of boys, thanks to the energy infused by the apparition of Lucy waving
her pocket-handkerchief, and whilst they were being swept to the brig Captain
Weaver asked her master one or two questions. This was the story his
interrogatories elicited. On the day before yesterday the brig that was very
short of provisions and water sighted a vessel, which on her approach proved to
be so rigged that the master declared he had never seen the like. "She carried
nothing but fore-and-aft sails on her mizzen-mast," said he. On which Captain
Weaver exclaimed: "The _Minorca_, of course. She was French, and what's called
barque-rigged." Well, the _Louisa Ann_ backed her topsail, and the strangely
rigged ship backed her's, and the master of the brig, not choosing to ask too
many favours at once, hailed to know if she could spare some fresh water, as
they had run to an allowance that was close upon famine. He was received on
board by a tall, commanding, handsome man, who, on the arrival of the master of
the _Louisa Ann_, said he was welcome to a supply of fresh water, and that in
return he would ask him to receive a young lady who had gone mad during the
voyage from England, and convey her to that country. Her name was Miss Acton.
She was a daughter of Captain Acton of Old Harbour Town, and the captain of the
_Louisa Ann_ might make sure of a handsome reward for his services from the
father. The lady, the tall, handsome man said, had consented to elope with him,
and they were to be married at Rio de Janeiro; but she had gone out of her mind.
The fine, handsome man felt he could do nothing better than to restore her as
soon as possible to her friends. The captain of the brig said that he had but a
poor accommodation for a lady of her quality, but wanting the fresh water very
badly and likewise reflecting that he might receive a handsome reward, and
learning from the fine, handsome man that Miss Acton was by no means violent,
but on the contrary gentle and melancholy, he consented. "And how did she seem,"
said Captain Weaver, "when she got into the boat?" "She never spoke nor smiled,"
answered the captain of the brig, "but got quietly in and sat quietly down, and
kept her eyes fixed upon the thwart that was next her's whilst the water was
being lowered; but afterwards when I got her over the side and put her into the
best cabin we could accommodate her with, she began to talk, said she thanked
God for her deliverance, and was grateful indeed to Him for now being on her way
home. And she spoke as clear and collected as I do, and is no more mad than I
am. But she did not let me into the job whatever it was. She hasn't given me an
idea as to her elopement and the reason of her being sent aboard me, and I'm
always a-wondering what the trick is." The _Aurora's_ boat was swept alongside
the brig, and Captain Acton and the Admiral clambered over the side up a short
flight of steps, and in an instant Lucy was clasped in the devouring embrace of
her father. Such an old-world scene taxes the highest gifts of the pen or the
brush. This _Louisa Ann_ was about fifty years old; she was nearly as broad as
she was long. Her fore-mast was stepped far in the bows; her decks were stained
and grimy; the paint had faded out of the inside of her bulwarks. Her sails were
patched and so dingy that they might have been coloured as a smack's. Her rusty
sides were lined with yawning seams amid which three little circular windows
were merged with no accentuation from the dirt-shrouded glass which prevented
the sea from entering the blistered, worn, mani-coloured hull. Her sailors
looked as though they were shipwrecked: long-haired, bearded, sallow, in clothes
considerably tattered, in aspect melancholy and dejected with lack of
nourishment, dullness of sailing and ceaseless motion: for here was the tub
wallowing like a buoy in a popple upon a smooth sea, and the frightful weather
she would make off Cape Horn or in a gale of wind the imagination of a sailor
could readily picture by witnessing her motions now. On the stage of this little
marine theatre the father clasped his daughter, whilst the Admiral, with emotion
damp in his eyes, looked on. Captain Acton released his child and surveyed her,
whilst the Admiral seizing both her hands, raised them to his lips, one after
the other, mumbling in broken tones: "May God bless you! I thank God we have
found thee!" She was dressed, of course, in the costume in which she had been
kidnapped, and like the sailors she looked very much the worse for wear and
tear. Her jockey-shaped hat, so modish and even rakish when purchased, had
fallen into a confusion of headgear, a something that might have wanted a name
had it been found on the highway. Her hair looked wild in the inartistic
dressing it suffered from. Her rich and characteristic bloom had faded, and what
lingered was but as a delicate faint flush of expiring sunset. But even as she
stood, not the most cynical and aspish of her own sex would have challenged her
beauty, the charms of her figure, the melting sweetness of her eyes on whose
dark-brown irids the white lids, rich in eyelash, reposed. Those eyes were wet
now, and tears were upon her cheeks. But what was to be said aboard that loutish
old brig, with a crew of half-starved, weedy mariners looking on agape? In a
very few minutes Lucy was handed into the _Aurora's_ boat, and the party were
making for the schooner as swiftly as the dip and sweep of oars could impel the
keen-bowed little fabric. "What a wonderful meeting!" cried Captain Acton,
blessing his daughter with a smile sweet and good with the pulse of the heart of
a father who adores his only child. "You will have much to tell us, my darling."
"Much," said the Admiral. "Oh yes. It is a story that will make you wonder,"
said Lucy. "I fear Aunt Caroline was terribly upset when she found me missing."
"Oh, we'll soon stand her up again," said Captain Acton. "Did you recognise the
_Aurora_?" "Oh yes, sir; how could she be mistaken?" answered Lucy. "How
beautiful she looked as she came towards us!" "You have been half-starved in
that brig," said Captain Acton, searching his daughter's face, and running his
eyes over her dress. "We'll soon have her back again to her old moorings," cried
the Admiral. "She cannot gain in beauty, but the schooner will give her the
colour she lacks." There was very little to be said in that boat where there
were five oarsmen to listen. The few of the crew who remained on board the
schooner greeted Miss Lucy's recovery and arrival alongside by springing into
the rigging and delivering cheer after cheer with much demonstration of arm and
cap. She was carefully handed over the side, Captain Weaver receiving her, hat
in hand and a succession of congratulatory bows, and without more ado she was
conducted into the cabin that had been assigned her by her father, who embraced
her again and again when he had her alone, saying that she looked tired, that
she must take some repose before she began to tell him and the Admiral what had
happened to her. He held her by the hands. He looked at her face; his affection,
his gratitude, his delight overwhelmed him. "Oh, my dear, dear Lucy," he cried,
"little can you conceive how the man who carried you off has made your aunt and
me, and his father, suffer!" "He acted wickedly in luring me on board only to
steal me," said Lucy, "and he is wicked to rob you of your property. But oh,
father, villain as he seems, his behaviour to me was that of a gentleman--and--
and I am sorry for him." Captain Acton's face changed with the astonishment
wrought in him by his daughter's words and manner of speaking, and instantly to
his memory recurred the remark of his sister that, if Mr Lawrence was in love
with Lucy, she was equally in love with him, though she made no sign save to the
scrutinising eye of an old maid. "We'll talk of that later, my dear one," he
said. "You'll find several changes of apparel in those boxes. I left it to your
aunt to pack them. She would know what you needed, though we had no hope of
falling in with you in this way. Some breakfast shall be got for you in the
cabin when you are ready, and then you will tell the Admiral and me your story."
After further endearments between this devoted father and his daughter, Captain
Acton closed her cabin door and went on deck. He found Captain Weaver, the
master of the brig, and the captain of the brig in conversation. The skipper of
the brig had made no entry touching his falling in with the _Minorca_. He could
depend upon nothing but his memory, and to the best of his recollection he had
given to Captain Weaver the latitude and longitude in which he had spoken the
_Minorca_ on the morning before the previous day. It was at least certain that
the barque was within easy sailing reach of the schooner; it was equally sure
that the schooner was almost directly in the tail of the wake of the _Minorca_,
and that if Captain Weaver continued the course he had been steering he was
bound to overhaul her, providing the schooner was the swifter vessel. Leaving
Captain Weaver to converse with the skipper and to supply his wants, Captain
Acton passed his arm through the Admiral's and led him aft. "Now," said he in a
soft voice full of the emotion which his daughter's preservation and restoration
had filled him with--"now that my dear child, by the mercy and goodness of
Almighty God, has been returned to me I am for heading straight for Old Harbour
Town, for she has had enough of the sea--more than enough, and I am for having
her at home, safe again. She has gone through much, she looks ill, she needs the
rest and nursing she can only get at home." The Admiral was violently agitated.
He exclaimed in broken tones: "If this is your decision I implore you to
reconsider it. You, sir, who are the soul of benevolence would not act with
heartless cruelty towards an old friend, but heartlessly cruel you must prove to
me if, with the opportunity which this schooner provides and with the _Minorca_
within a few hours' reach, you suffer my worthless, ungrateful son to make away
with your property, and render me hopeless and helpless as a man who has no
means to repay you the loss you must sustain." Captain Acton was silent for a
few moments. He then said: "My dear friend, have you reflected upon all that
your son's return to England must signify to him?" "Your property must be
recovered. My son must take the consequences of his acts. I know what it means,
sir--the gibbet and chains--for thus they serve the pirate," exclaimed the poor
old Admiral, grim and desperate. "God forbid!" exclaimed Captain Acton, whose
spirits, it could be seen, were suddenly and violently disordered by the
Admiral's speech. "They hang no pirate without a prosecution. Who is to
prosecute? Admiral Lawrence's old friend, Captain Acton? No, sir, by the holy
name of that good God who has restored my child to me, not I!" "Oh, Acton,
Acton, you overwhelm me!" murmured the Admiral, turning his head away to sea,
and speaking with a voice that trembled with the tears of a man's heart. "What I
meant was," said Captain Acton, tenderly pressing his friend's arm, "if your son
returns to England he may be arrested for debt, in which case his actions of
abduction and piracy may be brought to light, and if I was not compelled to
prosecute, I should be held guilty of conniving at a crime. All this must be
avoided, and can be avoided." "It can be avoided, and still your property may be
preserved to you," exclaimed the Admiral. "My unhappy son will throw him self
upon your mercy----"

"It shall be extended sir, it shall be extended," broke in Captain Acton. "And
we can land him privately," continued the Admiral, "at an English port, where
habited in the clothes of a common sailor he will seek a berth before the mast,
and sail away--to be heard of no more." Here this fine old seaman fairly broke
down, and stepping to the bulwarks, hid his face in his hands, whilst convulsion
after convulsion seemed to rend his sturdy figure. Captain Acton waited until
this unconquerable fit of grief should have abated. He then went to his friend's
side, and, passing his arm round his neck, said: "My dear old friend, keep up
your heart! We will pursue the _Minorca_ and regain her if possible, and depend
upon it, your son shall be made to suffer as little as can be helped. Meanwhile,
let us wait until we hear Lucy's story." CHAPTER XV

NELSON

By the time that Lucy was seated at the cabin table of the _Aurora_ at the meal
which had been prepared for her, with her father on one side and Sir William
Lawrence on the other watching her with riveted eyes, listening to her with
impassioned attention, putting such questions as must naturally arise from this
most extraordinary adventure, the brig _Louisa Ann_ was about three miles astern
rolling and flapping onwards for Whitby, her larder enriched by two casks of
beef and a cask of fresh water, whilst in her master's pocket was Captain
Acton's address; for it had been agreed that in consideration of the brig's
skipper having taken Miss Lucy Acton aboard his ship, he was to receive the
fifty guineas reward which had been offered for her recovery, and which Captain
Acton would forward when on his return he should know where to address the
skipper. And meanwhile Captain Weaver had received instructions from Captain
Acton to continue his chase of the _Minorca_, and the schooner under full and
large breasts of canvas was gently leaning from a pleasant little breeze which
had sprung up whilst the _Aurora_ was sending meat and water to the brig, and
was sliding with some show of nimbleness through a blue surface that was summer-
like in peaceful rippling, in beautiful dyes, and in splendid distances. The
cabin that Lucy was now to occupy had been fitted up and furnished with all
possible reference to her needs, for it had been hoped that if she was not
overtaken at sea she would be found at Rio, and Acton's and his sister's
expectations were not so forlorn but that they believed the _Aurora_ would
return with the girl, and the possibility was to be provided for with as much
foresight as could be bestowed on the circumstance of her return as a fact. The
boxes contained such wearing apparel as she herself might have chosen from her
wardrobe. The toilet table was comfortably supplied: indeed nothing that she was
accustomed to use in dressing herself was absent. So, then, as she sat at table
she almost looked the same beautiful Lucy Acton who had left her house early one
morning for a walk in which she had met the hunchback Paul and read a letter he
gave her. The old rich colour was indeed lacking; no charm of hat, no grace of
coiffure, no elegance of costume could immediately qualify or dispel the languor
of fatigue in the eyes, the delicate shadow pencilled by worry and an enormous
mental strain under the eyes, and a general expression in movements of silence
or repose, of anxiety, pain, and another quality which you might have seen was
present without being able to give it a name. One or two questions of no moment
had been asked and answered when the Admiral exclaimed: "I beg, dearest madam,
and you, Captain Acton, will forgive me for perhaps unseasonably thrusting in,
by asking if you can tell me that atrocious, and to me heartbreaking as has been
the conduct of my son, he acted nevertheless during his relations with you on
board the _Minorca_ as a gentleman?" "He did. I can assure you on my word of
honour, Sir William," answered the girl, with a glow and fervour that caused her
father to again attentively examine her face with an expression which changed
the look it was wearing. "In my feigned madness I reproached him in language
which I knew was not ladylike. I called him a scoundrel, and a rogue, and many
injurious and aggravating words which came into my head I flung at him, acting
all the while the part of a madwoman. Yet, sir," she said, turning to her
father, "never once did my violent attacks upon his temper and character cause
him to forget himself. He bowed to me, he madamed me, he was throughout as
gentlemanlike and respectful as I had ever found him when we met at Old Harbour
House or in Old Harbour Town." The Admiral put his hand upon her's. "I thank you
for this gracious assurance," he said, in a voice deep with feeling, with eyes
which looked humid as they reposed upon her, and with a faint smile like the
first illumination of the face by a dawning happiness. "Did you act the part of
a madwoman?" said Captain Acton. "Yes, papa. When I found myself his prisoner
and at his mercy I quickly thought over what I should do to rescue myself. I
understood, first of all, that I must disgust him if possible." Captain Acton
and Sir William exchanged a look at this stroke of _naiveté_ and lightly smiled.
"How was I to disgust him?" continued the beautiful young creature. "I made up
my mind to pretend to be mad." "And you are so fine an actress as to have been
able to persuade so intelligent a man that you were actually mad?" enquired
Captain Acton with some astonishment. "I was determined to try. I could see no
other way of frightening and disgusting him." "The spirit of her mother came to
her aid," said the Admiral, who had heard much of the genius of Kitty O'Hara.
"Ha!" exclaimed Captain Acton, looking fondly at his child, "I don't doubt it is
in you. But you have suffered it to rest as an unsuspected quality." "And you
made Mr Lawrence afraid of you?" said Sir William. She answered by relating the
story of some of those freaks with which the reader has been made acquainted;
she described other acts of madness which had taxed her imagination to devise.
She was mad to all who spoke to her because, as she justly said, "it would have
been ridiculous for me to have been mad to the Captain and sane to everybody
else in the ship." Captain Acton listened to her with profound interest. He was
greatly impressed and moved by his daughter's exhibition of traditionary genius.
She recalled his wife, of whom he was passionately proud and fond. He had never
imagined that Lucy had the talent of an actress, but the dramatic character of
her narrative and every point in her extraordinary relation convinced him that
she was a born artist, and that accident had compelled her to reveal to herself
gifts of power, perception, and imagination of whose existence she had been as
ignorant as her father. "My love," said Captain Acton, "will you tell me how it
happened that you should have allowed yourself to be lured on board the
_Minorca_?" "I will tell you exactly," said Lucy, and the Admiral bent his ear.
"It was a very fine morning and I was awake early, and I thought I would walk as
far as the pier and back, intending to be home before you read prayers. I left
Mamie behind, as she has a trick of running into the water, and she swims so
badly that I am afraid she will one day be drowned. On the way I met the red-
haired hunchback whom I had seen about Old Harbour Town at times. There was
something in his manner that made me think he was making for Old Harbour House.
He saluted me very respectfully, and gave me a letter written in pencil. In my
excitement and alarm I did not know what I did with it. If I put it in my pocket
it was not there when I felt. It was signed by Walter Lawrence, who wrote that
Captain Acton had come on board the _Minorca_, had stumbled over something the
name of which I forget, and fallen a few feet into the hold, which lay open. Mr
Lawrence believed that Captain Acton was not dangerously hurt, but he was in a
very bad way and in great pain, and he had asked Mr Lawrence to write to his
daughter Lucy and acquaint her with the accident and beg her immediate presence,
but she must on no account make the disaster known to her aunt or to any other
member of the household. "I was completely deceived by this letter," continued
Lucy, "and hurried to the ship followed by the hunchback, who conducted me
downstairs and opened a cabin door. I entered, thinking to find you there, sir.
The door was instantly shut, and I found myself alone with Mr Lawrence." "The
villain!" muttered the Admiral. "But could you suppose, my love, that I should
be down at that ship at so early an hour?" said the Captain. "I was too much
agitated to reflect, papa," Lucy answered. "It seemed so natural--so reasonable,
and I hastened to the ship, in the belief that you were lying in her seriously
hurt." "But suppose that fellow Paul had not met you?" said Captain Acton. "Mr
Lawrence is very daring," answered Lucy. "I can easily believe that the
hunchback Paul, as he is called, had orders if he did not meet me to go to the
house and deliver the letter to me in person." "But wouldn't Mr Lawrence guess
that I should be at home at that hour, and that you would know I was at home?"
said Captain Acton. "The Devil," said the Admiral, "is very bountiful to his
servants in his gifts of opportunity." "True!" answered Captain Acton. "Fortune
certainly favoured Mr Lawrence. And now, Lucy, I want you to explain how it was
that neither I, nor the Admiral, nor Captain Weaver, could find a single living
creature to tell us that you had been seen passing along the wharves to the
_Minorca_?" "I am sure I cannot answer that question, sir. I was not disguised,
nor was my face concealed. I wore my jockey hat. My spirits were in too great a
hurry to allow me to take any notice, but I am quite sure that there were very
few people about; none of these might have known or observed me, and it is not
surprising, therefore, that you should not have guessed what had become of me."
"What excuse did Mr Lawrence make to the men for sending you into another ship?"
"I cannot believe that he made any excuses at all. He is not a man," Lucy
answered, with a faint smile which was certainly not unsuggestive of that sort
of expression which the human face puts on when its wearer speaks with secret
pride of another, "to make excuses for his conduct to the common sailors under
him. Indeed, papa, I don't know which side would be more surprised: he, in
excusing his actions to the sailors, or they, that he should condescend to
explain. When I first went on deck after being kept in the cabin the scene I
witnessed might have been on the stage of a theatre: the crew stood in a body in
the fore-part of the ship; two men were a little in advance of them, and at one
of these men Mr Lawrence had levelled a pistol. There he stood, pistol in hand,
and the sailor, stubborn and defiant, never budged. I felt faint. I feared he
would shoot and kill the man." "He didn't shoot, then!" cried the Admiral. "No,
Sir William; something like a scuffle followed, and Mr Pledge, who, I believe,
was the boatswain, acting as an officer on board, holding some irons in his
hand, seized one of the men, but I thought in a very gentle, friendly way, and
carried him below." "Did no mutiny amongst the crew follow?" enquired Captain
Acton. "I think not. I am sure not. Mr Lawrence awed them all. I could never
have believed in such a commanding, overwhelming manner as he put on." The
Admiral drummed with his fingers upon the table, looking down. "But pray, Lucy,"
exclaimed Captain Acton, "what was Mr Eagle about? Did not he know that you were
Mr Lawrence's prisoner, though he might not have been able to guess that it was
Mr Lawrence's intention to navigate the ship to Rio to sell her there? Did not
he make any effort to rescue you by appeals to the Captain, or by so working up
the crew as to determine them to sail the ship back to Old Harbour Town?" "I can
assure you, papa," answered Lucy, "that Mr Eagle is a very silly, sour man, in
whose rheumatism I shall no longer take any interest. He thought I was mad, and
was as much afraid of me as he was of Mr Lawrence, and was careful to avoid me.
As I just now said, if I was to be mad to Mr Lawrence, I must be mad to the
others, and fully believing that I was mad, the crew would naturally think that
the most humane course Mr Lawrence could adopt was to send me home by any ship
that would receive me." "You must have acted your part well, my child," said
Captain Acton, viewing the girl with admiration and fondness. "I was forced to
act many parts. Every day the strain grew more and more unsupportable, and I
prayed for the end to come in the way I was working for. I was obliged to act
many parts, some so base, sordid, even disgusting, that my heart sickened at my
imposition, and the internal struggle with my feelings was as hard as my
external efforts. I had to invent my parts and rehearse them." "What were the
characters which could convince so shrewd and intelligent a man as Mr Lawrence
that you were mad?" enquired Captain Acton, the habitual gravity of whose face
was replaced by a constant expression of astonishment. "I pretended to hear
voices, and answered, of course, when Mr Lawrence was present," said Lucy. "I
would bow to visionary persons and address them. One was the Duke of Clarence,
whose hand I kissed while Mr Lawrence looked on." Captain Acton's eyes opened
wide; the Admiral gurgled a nervous laugh. "I secreted my rings and some
rubbish, and made signs with a mad face to Mr Lawrence to come and look at the
treasure I had hidden. I took my meals on the deck crouching like an animal. I
would shriek with laughter which had nothing to do with what was said. A later
and most difficult effort was to believe that I was Mrs Siddons." "What on earth
have you been reading in your day about madness to give you such extraordinary
ideas?" said Captain Acton. "I can't tell how the fancies came to me," said
Lucy. "I know that mad people see apparitions and reply to imaginary voices. I
also remembered old Sarah Hutchinson who was thought mad because she was always
trying to tear up things: her sheets, her gowns, anything that might be given to
her. It was the remembrance of this disease in her that made me rip up my
mattress and scatter the feathers about the cabin." "Some of these days, madam,"
said the Admiral, "I trust you will favour me with a sample of the genius that
terrified Mr Lawrence and led to your recovery, for which God be praised." She
looked at Sir William, and with that look her face underwent a change--the
change that had amazed Mr Lawrence, that transformation of beauty into alternate
idiocy and bright-eyed madness, that marvellous facial motion which had done
more to convince her kidnapper that his act had driven her mad than all the rest
of her impersonations put together. Her rich and beautiful eyelids seemed to
shrink up into the sockets in which her eyes were lodged; the eyes themselves
seemed to sparkle with the uninterpretable passions of the afflicted brain; the
faint bloom which her cheek wore when she stepped on board faded as the picture
of a red rose overhanging its reflection in water disappears at the blurring by
the wind of its liquid mirror. Her lips were elongated and parted, and grey with
tension, and her teeth, white as sea foam, were set. The whole expression of
madness was incomparably life-like. Sir William started back in his chair,
crying faintly: "My God! Look at her, Acton!" The father caught that surprising
face of dramatic genius a moment before she composed her features to their
natural calm beauty of drooping lid and brooding eye and sweet expression of
lip, and the tenderness, the gentleness, the goodness that was her heart's and
her soul's, and the foundations of her moral nature. "Well, Lucy," said Captain
Acton, after fetching a deep breath of astonishment, "should I die insolvent,
you will know your fortune. You have it in your face: I don't question the rest
of your performance. 'Tis the very spirit of her mother, sir. Small wonder that
Mr Lawrence was convinced." "The British stage misses a splendid figure, a
shining light, in your neglect of it, madam," said the Admiral. "Oh, I have no
taste for acting. I have no ambition to be an actress. This effort was forced
upon me. How was I to disgust him, sir?" Again at this ingenuous remark the
Admiral and the Captain exchanged a smile. "Do you think, my dear," said Captain
Acton, "that the crew know they are being carried to Rio de Janeiro? I believe,
sir," he continued, addressing the Admiral, "that in Mr Lawrence's letter that
Mr Greyquill brought to us reference was made to certain sealed orders given by
me to the captain of the ship to be opened and read to the crew in a position
that was or was not named--I forget." "I have no doubt that the crew know that
the ship is not being steered to the West Indies," answered Lucy. "In silent
weather in my cabin I could hear any conversation that passed in the room where
Mr Lawrence or his officers sat at table, and more than once I overheard Mr
Pledge and Mr Eagle talking about the ship's navigation, wondering to what port
Captain Acton had in his sealed orders directed Mr Lawrence to carry the ship,
to sell her and dismiss the crew. I therefore supposed that the rest of the men
would know that the ship was not bound to Kingston." "I judge by this," said
Captain Acton, addressing the Admiral, "that my sealed orders"--he smiled
sarcastically, and the Admiral listened with a frown--"have not yet been read to
the crew by Mr Lawrence." "Where is the _Aurora_ going?" enquired Lucy. "We are
pursuing the _Minorca_," answered Captain Acton. She looked down upon the table
with a grave face. "She is not far distant," she said, speaking as though in
soliloquy. "It is only three days ago that I was on board of her. This swift
vessel is certain to overtake her. And what then will happen?" And as she said
this she suddenly lifted her eyes half-veiled, dark, and beaming to her father's
face. "The Admiral and I," answered Captain Acton, talking as though slightly
embarrassed, though moved by other feelings, "consider that we cannot do better
than remove Mr Lawrence into this ship, and carry him to England." "And what
after?" enquired Lucy, observing that her father paused with an expressive look
at Sir William, "I mean what after as regards Mr Lawrence?" "You do not wish him
to be hanged for piracy, even if abduction be not a hanging matter," said
Captain Acton with a smile in his eyes as he met the Admiral's. The girl
shuddered. "I know they hang for piracy!" she exclaimed. "It is what must happen
if you convey him to England." "He must be prosecuted before they can hang him,"
said Captain Acton, whilst the Admiral's regard was fastened upon Lucy's face
with such tokens of affectionate gratitude and surprise which rose to a passion
of delight as made the worthy, poor old man's jolly, weather-scored, truly
British countenance moving to behold. "And who is to prosecute him? I alone am
the sufferer. I alone can prosecute. Am I likely to do so? Am I the man to bring
my friend's son to the gallows?" "No, sir, no!" cried the Admiral in a deep,
trembling voice. "But though you do not prosecute him, sir," said Lucy, "might
not his story become known so that he might be arrested for piracy, and charged
and convicted on the evidence of his crew?" "You are a Portia," said Captain
Acton. "She reasons exquisitely well!" exclaimed the Admiral, slowly and
dolefully wagging his head. "We propose to provide against all that your fears
picture, my dear," said Captain Acton, who could no longer doubt that Aunt
Caroline was right, and that there had been, and that there still lived, a deep
secret liking or love for Mr Lawrence in Lucy, which had not suffered but rather
gained by his rascality, "by landing Mr Lawrence at an English port where he is
unknown, where habited in the garb of a common merchant sailor he will seek, and
of course obtain, employment before the mast, and sail away clear of all
dangerous consequences of his conduct." "Sail away, madam, into the remotest
part of the earth to be seen no more--to be heard of no more," said the Admiral,
trying to master his face as he spoke. But he failed and turned his head from
his companions, and would have buried his face in his hands but that he would
not have them know that his love for his son was deeper than his horror at his
conduct. The silence that followed was eloquent with recognition of the poor old
gentleman's trouble. Lucy left her chair, and going close to the Admiral said,
yet not so low but that Captain Acton overheard her: "It will not be as you say,
Sir William. Indeed it must not be. So fine a character besmirched by acts into
which a very bitter necessity has forced him, ought not to be found in the
common garb of a humble working merchant sailor, nor buried in some distant
parts where he can never shine as a man of fine and heroic spirit fit to fill
the highest position in the service he has left; and above all, and which is
best, sir, capable of bitter regret, of deep feeling, of exerting the power by
which the humbled man is alone able to struggle--I mean the power of self-
regeneration." She spoke like a young wild-eyed prophetess; her tones had a
vigorous, dramatic clearness which made her voice new to her father's ears. Her
language, which seemed exalted beyond her age, beyond anything one would look
for in the lips of so calm, modest, and undemonstrative a girl, she appeared to
make peculiarly appropriate to her years and sex, by her delivery, her melodies
of accentuation, the easy grasp with which, it was clear, she held a subject
that was deep in human nature. The Admiral rose, and addressing her as though
she were the consort of a king, said: "Madam, as the father of the person you
speak of, I ask Almighty God, who is merciful and knows the human heart, to
bless you for your words." Captain Acton was silent. He was astonished. He had
never observed his daughter as Aunt Caroline did. He was wanting in feminine
sagacity where the heart is concerned. He saw that if his daughter was not in
love with Mr Lawrence, she was dangerously near that passion; she seemed to him
to have been transformed into a sweetheart by usage which would have made the
heart of most young women fierce with hate and horror. She was under a spell
which she thought to break by the practice of an inherited art, as miraculous in
effect as it had been unsuspected in being, and she had left her kidnapper
seemingly as enamoured of him as though his behaviour from the beginning had
been strictly honourable and chivalrous, an additament to the passion which his
gallant record, his lofty bearing, and his handsome looks had inspired in her.
Her rising from the table had caused the gentlemen to rise. They went on deck.
Lucy said she was tired and would be glad to take some rest; her accommodation
on board the _Louisa Ann_ was very wretched, and she had scarcely been able to
sleep on account of the gruff voices, the alarming creaking and groaning noises,
and a strange hideous smell which probably came from the cargo, all which she
must always associate in memory with the _Louisa Ann_. She wished however to see
the _Aurora_, and for some minutes she stood on the deck with her father and the
Admiral beside her, gazing round the picture as though entranced. Once again her
lovely eyes seemed to brood even in their glances; they appeared to dwell with a
dreamy delight on what they beheld. Through her parted lips the sweet breeze
rushed, and the hair upon her brow flickered like shadows cast by the wavering
of a silver flame. The bright, mild wind came gushing steadily over the bulwark
rail; the decks were slightly sloped, and their seams ran black, as defined as
the ebony lines ruled by standing rigging in moonshine, and the planks between
shone like ivory. On high the heeling structure was a vast surface of canvas,
with three square yards at the fore for the fore topsail and topgallant sail,
and over the swan-like stem of this American clipper--for a clipper she was--the
immensely long bowsprit and jibboom spread the foot of huge triangular wings
which gave the hull a grand and noble look forward, as though she was about to
spring from the water in the brilliant flash of foam which darted from the wet
and metalled fore-foot, to form one of the squadron of cream-coloured clouds
royal in their progress with trailing robes of glory. "What a contrast,"
exclaimed Lucy, "to the _Louisa Ann_!" She turned her eyes into that remote part
of the sea on the quarter where the _Louisa Ann_ hung transformed by distance
and sunshine into a star of day. So marvellous is the magic wrought by the wand
of the deep in its passage over even such shapeless enormities as the Whitby
brig. When she had drunk her full of the fine wide scene of sea and sky and
milk-bright schooner in the midst, with never a break the clear horizon round
save the _Louisa Ann_ that was fast fading, Lucy went below, followed by her
father, who kissed her again and again in a transport of delight at having
recovered her, and in being able once more to hold his adored child to his
heart, and before she entered her berth to lie down and rest, he said to her: "I
am so overjoyed, my darling, in having recovered you that I take no interest in
the _Minorca_. Mr Lawrence may do with her what he pleases--I have you." She
smiled and kissed him, and then said: "But oh, sir, his poor old father! You
have regained me, your only child, but Sir William, an old, a good man, an
upright, a beautiful character, must lose his son, an only child too." "He shall
not lose him through me," said Captain Acton, speaking with the solemnity with
which he might utter a sentence in a sacred building. "Sir William shall never
be made to suffer at my hands. I will not lift a finger to prosecute Mr
Lawrence, who, if he ever returns to Old Harbour Town, will be safe from all but
his creditors." She slightly coloured as though surprised into an emotion of
happiness, and again kissing her father went into her berth, and Captain Acton
returned to the Admiral slowly and thoughtfully. It was early next morning,
about six bells--seven o'clock--when an event of the deepest historic interest
to those who took part in it, broke the routine of the chase of the _Minorca_ by
the _Aurora_. The wind was a little to the north of west, and blew a gentle
breeze which rippled the waters upon the long-drawn swell that came heaving from
horizon to horizon, from north-west to south-east, as though a gale of wind had
been lately blowing or was to come. Though freckled with high fine-weather
clouds the dome of heaven sank in purity to its girdle of sea line, and from the
deck at daybreak nothing was in sight. But soon as the east changed from
darkness into a pale luminous grey, with the stars fading above the soaring haze
of light as though they fled in scatterings, a sailor trotted up the forerigging
of the _Aurora_, and shinned as high as the topgallant yard over which he flung
a leg with his back against the mast, and taking the telescope that was slung
upon his back in his hands, he slowly and steadily directed the lenses round the
girdle of brine which was now faintly stealing into a visible horizon in the
west, and his silence betokened to Captain Weaver, who stood on the quarterdeck
with eyes fixed upon the fellow up aloft, that nothing was in sight. Captain
Weaver was carrying out the instructions he had received at Old Harbour Town. He
was chasing the _Minorca_. The recovery of Lucy had led to no change in those
instructions. Though Captain Acton in his gratitude for the restoration of his
child was willing to relinquish the pursuit and to leave the _Minorca_ and the
handsome piratical scoundrel who had sailed away with her and Lucy to their
fate, he had not revealed his thoughts to Captain Weaver, nor to the Admiral,
and the _Aurora_ at this hour of daybreak on a day in June 1805, was steadily
stemming in chase of the barque which she was to capture, Captain Weaver did not
exactly know how. For the _Aurora_ was unarmed, whilst the _Minorca_ mounted
four pieces of artillery, and was in command of a naturally desperate fighting
and fearless spirit, one whose neck would certainly be broken by the hangman if
he was taken: unless indeed his crew turned upon him, and backed their yards and
stopped the ship, that her owner might come by his own, despite Mr Lawrence's
levelled pistol or any threats he might make use of in reference to the powder
magazine. "But," Captain Weaver had thought to himself on several occasions,
"time enough to know what's a-going to happen when we heave the _Minorca_ into
view or draw abreast of her, for who's to tell but that we are bound to miss
her, in which case we shall receive her at Rio, providing her skipper hasn't got
scent of us and shifted his hellum for another port, and then there can be no
blazing away of carronades on one side and a trimming of sail to keep clear of
shot on the other." Just as the sun rose the Admiral came on deck, and as the
old gentleman stepped over the coaming of the sunk door of the deck-house and
mounted the two or three steps that carried him on deck, the man on the
topgallant yard, with his telescope shooting straight from his eye into the
south-west quarter of the sea, bawled: "On deck there! Two sail, a point and a
half on the starboard bow." Scarcely had the words been received by the ears on
deck, when he shouted: "Two more sail, just astarn of the two first." "What's
this going to be?" exclaimed the Admiral to Captain Weaver. Another call from
the mast-head, and yet another and another and another in brief intervals of
scarce half a minute's duration each; and at last fourteen sail were reported in
sight on the starboard bow, sailing large, heading north-east or thereabouts so
that the course of the _Aurora_ would bring her into the thick of them. At this
moment Captain Acton came on deck. He saw the cloud of sail in an instant, and
the Admiral having taken the ship's glass from Captain Weaver's hands, Acton
rushed into the deck-house to get his own fine telescope. "A small convoy, sir,
I think," said Captain Weaver. "No, sir," responded Captain Acton, with his eye
at his glass. "Line of battle-ships, and three smaller vessels," for by this
time the distant fleet by combination of its own and the passage of the _Aurora_
through the water had lifted above the horizon to the topsails of the hindmost,
the courses of the van swelling and falling plain in the lenses as the
structures bowed upon the large, wide, steel-coloured swell tinctured by the
day-spring. "I agree with you, Acton: a fleet of men-of-war," said the Admiral.
"British or French?" enquired Captain Acton, letting his glass sink whilst he
looked at his companions. "Before we sailed the news had got about that
Villeneuve meant to go for the West Indies. It may be his ships returning." He
pointed his glass again, and counted: "Eleven sail of the line and three
frigates." "Villeneuve's force was greater, sir," said the Admiral. "It was
reckoned at eighteen or twenty line-of-battle ships." "All the same we must mind
our eye," said Captain Acton. "Shorten sail, Captain Weaver! But furl nothing!
And stand by to get away close hauled on the larboard tack before we're within
gunshot." Lucy came out of the deck-house. A long night's rest had restored much
of the bloom to her beauty. She wanted something of the freshness, but she
lacked nothing of the sweetness and the loveliness with which she fascinated the
gaze at home. She ran to her father and kissed him, shook hands with the
Admiral, and bowed to Captain Weaver most cordially. "What a lot of ships!" she
cried. The crew were busy with letting go halliards and brailing in and clewing
up, and the _Aurora_ floated forward, slowly swaying her mast-heads with languor
and dignity as the heave of the sea took her and rocked her. The ships rose
until every hull was visible. Eleven line-of-battle ships, as Captain Acton
said, and three frigates. They flew no colours: nothing in that way could be
seen save the little patch against the flecked sky that denoted the flag-ship.
"If they are not British, sir," said the Admiral, after a prolonged squint
through the glass, "I'll swallow my cocked hat when I get ashore." "I could
swear to one of them as the _Superb_," said Captain Acton, who had also taken a
prolonged view of the ships through his glass. "She is a slow sailer. I know
that she is rotten to the core for want of a dockyard. If I am not greatly
mistaken, her stun-sail booms are lashed to the yards, and she is the only one
with stun-sails set, which means that her rotting keel marks the pace for the
rest. Hoist our colours! We'll chance it." Captain Weaver sped aft, and in a few
moments the English Ensign soared to the mizzen-gaff end and streamed out fair
to the sight of the approaching fleet. "British, as I guessed," cried the
Admiral. "And here comes a frigate to speak us," exclaimed Captain Acton, as one
of the smaller vessels which had hoisted English colours came out from the crowd
with yards braced for the shift of helm and, leaning under her silk-white towers
of cloths, and rolling as she came, made directly for the _Aurora_. The schooner
was washing slowly along under her three lower gaff sails only, and the frigate
that carried everything but studding sails was speedily within ranging and
hailing distance. She was the _Amphion_, without much beauty to detain the eye,
unless the gaze climbed aloft where every sail was cut and set with the
perfection that was the characteristic of the British man-of-war, and where the
running and standing rigging was ruled as delicately against the sky as though
exquisitely pencilled on paper, and on high, just under the gleaming button of
the truck, shimmered the long pennant in fluctuating dyes like a thread of a
girl's golden hair floating on the breeze. But her sheathing was rusty and
ungainly with marine growths, and her sides wanted the paint-pot, but the run of
the hammock cloths was as white as snow, and her row of cannon and the sparkle
of uniform buttons and the colour got from the marine sentry posted here or
there, heightened the war-like spectacle to the degree of a marine piece charged
with the loveliness of finish and precision and imposing and stirring with the
spirit of war. She put her helm over, and sailing broadside to broadside with
the _Aurora_, hailed her from the throat of a lieutenant who had hoisted his
figure by standing on a carronade. "Ho, the schooner ahoy! where are you from?"
"Old Harbour Town, England," responded Captain Weaver. "Have you seen anything
of the French Fleet?" "No, sir, we have sighted nothing of that sort." This was
manifestly all that the frigate had left the other ships to ascertain, and the
lieutenant was in the act of springing on to the deck, when Captain Acton
shouted: "Pray, sir, can you tell us what those ships are?" "They are the fleet
under Lord Nelson," was the answer, "which have been chasing Monsieur de
Villeneuve across the Atlantic to the West Indies, and are now bound to Europe,
having missed the Frenchmen." "I am Admiral Sir William Lawrence," was next
bawled. "Will you be so good as to inform me if Lord Nelson is on board one of
those ships, and which ship?" "Yes, sir, he is on board the _Victory_. She is
the one that is ahead of and to windward of the ship that has stun-sails set."
So saying, and evidently not much impressed by meeting an Admiral of whom he had
never heard in a schooner that looked uncommonly like a slaver or a pirate, the
lieutenant disappeared, and a moment or two after, the frigate trimmed sail to
rejoin the fleet. "Nelson!" cried Captain Acton, in a voice subdued by reverence
for the name it pronounced, addressing his daughter. "We must run down and have
a look at him. The deviation need not be above two or three miles, which will
not cause us to lose sight of the _Minorca_ by diverting us from her track. Make
all sail again, Captain Weaver, and head for that flag-ship. You can see her:
she is to windward of the ship with the stun-sails." All sail was immediately
made on the schooner. And with a fine dancing motion thrown into her by the
swell, her coppered sides slipped nimbly through the water, graced by the frolic
of foam sheared out of the feathering ripples by the sharp stem. It was not very
long before the eleven sail of the line with their attendant frigates were
swelling large, bristling, and close to the _Aurora_, at whose signal halliards
stood two sailors who dipped to such battle-ships as the schooner passed
receiving the acknowledgment of small ensigns gaff-ended, and then hauled down
to be hoisted no more. The picture was full of a grandeur that borrowed majesty
from the sense of the power and the empire the ships symbolised. They were
lordly in slow motion; they bowed to the swell as though in lofty homage to
their mistress the sea; they were terrible in triple rows of cannon and by
virtue of the traditional magnificent spirit, silent and concealed behind their
lofty and invincible defences. It was the breakfast hour, but the people aboard
the _Aurora_ were very willing to wait to break their fast. Not a man but was
fascinated by the sight and presence of that tall, majestic ship out there, with
the little flag at the fore. For Nelson--the Nelson of the North, of Aboukir
Bay, of Teneriffe, of St Vincent, the Nelson of a hundred wounds, the first of
all sea chieftains in the history of the world, Nelson, the truest sailor, the
kindest shipmate, the man of the purest and loftiest spirit of chivalry and
patriotism that ever stepped the planks of a ship's decks--this great, this
sublime hero, to be even greater and sublimer in his victorious and immortal
death a few months later--_Nelson was in her_! As the schooner, swifter by two
to one than the battle-ships, passed onwards on her road to the _Victory_, the
Admiral and Captain Acton recognised some of the three-deckers in which they had
served as midshipmen. "There's the old _Canopus_!" cried the Admiral. "Lord,
what a shivering recollection I have of her main topmast cross-trees!" "And
there's the _Bellisle_," said Captain Acton. "I was in her"--and he named the
period to his daughter, whom he addressed, but who seemed to have no eyes for
any ship but the _Victory_. Other ships, the two retired naval officers knew,
were the _Superb_, _Spencer_, _Swiftsure_, and _Leviathan_. The position of the
_Victory_ gave plenty of scope for the manoeuvrings of the _Aurora_. Captain
Weaver, finding that he would rapidly outsail the liner and be ahead and out of
hail before half a dozen sentences could be exchanged, luffed the _Aurora_ to
windward of the _Victory_, wisely declining to be becalmed by the big ship's
sails if he stationed his little craft to leeward of her. A lieutenant stood at
the forward end of the raised deck, or poop as it really was. One or two
midshipmen were visible. The sentry on the forecastle was in sight; otherwise
scarce a man was to be seen. The lieutenant hailed as the officer in the
_Amphion_ had: "Schooner ahoy! Are you fresh from England?" "Direct, sir,"
answered Captain Weaver. Scarcely had the _Aurora's_ skipper made this answer
when there appeared at the side of the lieutenant a figure whose apparition was
so sudden that, like Hamlet's ghost in the theatre, he might be thought to have
risen from below through an opening in the deck. He wore a cocked hat
athwartships. His frock uniform coat seemed somewhat threadbare; amidst the
folds of the left breast of his coat were four weather-tarnished and lustreless
stars. The right sleeve was empty and was secured to the breast. One eye was
protected by a green shade. He looked a little man alongside the lieutenant who
himself was not above the average. Collingwood described him as small enough to
be drawn through an alderman's thumb ring. At the sight of this immortal figure
the Admiral and Captain Acton instantly bared their heads, and the whole of the
crew of the _Aurora_, springing into the fore and main shrouds, roared hurrahs
in such voices as perhaps only British sailors' throats are capable of
delivering. Amidst those shouts of rapturous recognition and impassioned pride,
could be heard such exclamations as, "God bless you, Lord Nelson!" "Down with
the French, and glory to our Hero!" "Hurrah for the grandest sailor in the
world!" Nelson, standing beside his lieutenant, who might have been Pasco (the
officer who, on the 21st day of the following October, made the Nelson signal
that is as dear as his heart's blood to every Englishman), acknowledged the
salutations of the schooner's quarterdeck and the mobs in her rigging by bows
and a smile, and a lifting of his hand and certain flapping motions of the stump
of his right arm, an action into which he was frequently moved when irritated or
pleased. "I should like to know," he exclaimed, and every ear on board the
schooner was bent to catch his accents, with the greed with which a crowd of men
might be supposed to extend their hands to catch a shower of gold flung amongst
them from a height, "if you have seen anything of the French Fleet under Admiral
Villeneuve?" "No, my lord," shouted the Admiral, "I am very sorry to say we have
not." Nelson's stump wagged with annoyance. "I have followed them to the West
Indies," he exclaimed, "with eleven sail of the line, and Villeneuve has
eighteen or twenty; but you may tell them at home, if you are returning shortly,
that had I fallen in with the French Fleet I should have brought them to
action." "We are honoured by your lordship's command," cried the Admiral. "May I
venture to introduce myself as Admiral Sir William Lawrence? And I beg the
honour of introducing my friend Captain Acton, late of His Majesty's Royal Navy,
and his daughter, Miss Lucy Acton." Nelson flourished a salutation. Lucy sank in
a curtsy that was almost the same as kneeling. Most girls have a favourite hero,
and Nelson was her's, and had been her's ever since he came into renown on the
glorious St Valentine's Day. Had her father not been fascinated by the figure on
the _Victory_, he might have witnessed the almost magical art with which his
daughter had alarmed Mr Lawrence into releasing her, by a brief study of her
face as she gazed at the little figure on the deck of the _Victory_, with his
untenanted sleeve secured to his breast, and a smile of acknowledgment on his
pale and worn face, seamed about the mouth with wrinkles such as are sometimes
seen in persons deformed in the back, or suffering from spinal complaint. The
_Aurora_ and the line-of-battle ship sailed so close that it needed a special
vigilance on the part of Captain Weaver to preserve his schooner's spars from
the yard-arms of the towering vessel within a biscuit toss. Much exertion of
voice was therefore not necessary for conversation, and though Nelson occupied a
platform high above the low deck of his schooner, his features were perfectly
visible, and his voice fell as clear as though he stood beside those he
addressed. "Any relation, sir, of Lawrence of the _Peterel_ and _Curieux_
affair?" he cried. "I am his father, my lord," replied Sir William with a low
bow, of which the gravity that coloured it was very intelligible to Captain
Acton and Lucy. "A brilliant piece of work, sir," cried Nelson. Again the poor
old Admiral bowed, this time with a glow of pride, because a sentence of praise
from the mighty Nelson excited in the heart of this old sailor a transport that
the highest honour conferred by the King himself could not have induced. "I have
had the honour, my lord," exclaimed the Admiral, "to serve under Howe, Duncan,
and Sir Hyde Parker, but alas! I came into the world too soon to reflect even a
little of the glory with which those who have had the unspeakable happiness to
serve under your lordship have covered themselves." "Ah, three illustrious
names, sir," said Nelson. "Howe was the greatest of sea officers. Are you
gentlemen making a voyage of discovery or of pleasure?" "We are in chase of a
ship, my lord," cried Captain Acton, "which we hope to capture." "How? Unarmed!"
exclaimed Nelson. "We hope to effect our end without bloodshed, my lord," said
Captain Acton. "You will be very clever. I wish I could learn how to effect ends
in the same way," were Nelson's closing words, as, saluting the people on the
deck of the _Aurora_ once more, he stepped back and disappeared, followed by a
storm of cheers from the men of the _Aurora_, in which the Admiral and Captain
Acton heartily joined, whilst Lucy flourished her pocket-handkerchief, though
her hero was out of sight. CHAPTER XVI

THE CAPTURE

At breakfast, which was necessarily delayed on board the _Aurora_, the
conversation, as may be supposed, was almost entirely concerned with undoubtedly
the most memorable incident--the meeting with Nelson--in the lives of Captain
Acton and Sir William. The _Aurora_ had hauled out of the Fleet with a dipping
flag, and with wings eagerly straining to the breath of the strengthening blue
breeze that gushed with a tropic warmth over the little seas which creamed and
purred in heads that would easily grow spiteful and change their fountain-like
music into a harsh hissing as of serpents, was heading as true a course as
Captain Weaver could imagine for the barque that Captain Acton wanted. Nelson's
reference to Mr Lawrence's brilliant action was going to prove an overwhelming
memory to the Admiral. "When I think, sir," he exclaimed, as they breakfasted,
"what a few syllables of applause signify in the mouth of such a man as the hero
of the Nile, I feel as if I could spring overboard and drown myself when I
reflect that my unhappy son quitted the glorious Service under ignoble
circumstances, and that by remaining he might have come under the command of
Nelson, and gained the splendid renown which scarce a sea officer who has served
under that great man but has won." "I for one should not need to meet Lord
Nelson and hear him speak of your son to fully agree in what you say, Sir
William," said Lucy. Her father looked at her with a questioning gaze, but made
no remark. Nearly all the talk at that breakfast table was about Nelson and his
ships and his pursuit of Villeneuve, but shortly before the three arose the
conversation had been deflected by a remark of Lucy, on which the Admiral said:
"If this breeze holds we shall be heaving the _Minorca_ into sight the day after
to-morrow, or at latest the following day. There can be no doubt that the
schooner is fair in her wake. The _Whitby_ brig seems to have steered a straight
course from her to us; and now, sir, Lord Nelson's remark comes home: we are
unarmed. The barque carries four guns with which she can pelt us without our
being able to make a reply. If she wings us she will escape, and since she will
very well know who we are that are in pursuit of her, is my son likely to
proceed to Rio? Will he not take advantage of our being crippled to shift his
course, and go away to some place, unconjecturable by us, where he will be able
to communicate with his scoundrel friend at Rio and the Don with the long name
who is to have the management of the nefarious business?" "You will know, sir,"
replied Captain Acton, "one of Nelson's favourite sayings: at sea something must
be left to chance. I count upon the crew of the _Minorca_, when they sight the
_Aurora_ and understand her mission, which they will guess without explanation,
backing her main-topsail in defiance of your son's firearms and calling upon us
to take possession. If this does not happen, I shall not be at a loss, and
meanwhile, Sir William, let us get a view of the barque." After breakfast
Captain Acton and Lucy walked the deck, whilst the Admiral, with his big pipe,
seated himself right aft all alone, for this little ship was steered by a wheel
in front of the deck-house; he sat puffing out clouds of tobacco with his eyes
fixed upon the glimmering phantoms of the British Fleet, which hovered in the
north-east quarter in a few dim, waning gleams; and the moods of his mind were
faithfully reproduced in his jolly, honest, well-bred, kindly face. The breeze
blew bright and warm, and sang sweetly aloft. The brilliant horizon ahead slided
up and down past the prismatic edges of the clear and shapely sails which
yearned in steady breasts from mast-head to jibboom and bowsprit ends; the
parted water rolled past in wool-white lines of yeast; the heavens were alive
with the clouds of the air. Nothing was in sight but Nelson's Fleet, fading.
Lucy had related much, but she had much more to tell, and she narrated to her
father fresh stories of her madness, and drew several graphic pictures of Mr
Lawrence whilst he laboured under the various sensations her genius as an
untutored artist excited. She spoke with contempt of Mr Eagle, whilst she had
little or nothing to say about Mr Pledge. Her narratives were marked by a strong
leaning in favour of Mr Lawrence. Her father could not mistake. Her prejudice,
indeed her fondness, was expressed not so much in her admirable recitals and her
references to the dignified and gentlemanly manner with which Mr Lawrence had
treated her, with which he had received her aggravating, indeed her venomous,
references to his past and present conduct, as in the pause, the soft,
thoughtful smile, the brief exclamation, the sigh, and now and again the little
but significant remark. "But it is impossible, Lucy," said Captain Acton, "to
make a hero out of such a fellow as this: a man who forges sealed orders
supposed to be written by me! A rogue who not only steals my property, but
kidnaps my daughter by a lie!" "He must have done well, sir, for Nelson to have
remembered him," said Lucy. "And, oh, papa, will not you make some allowance for
the misconduct of a man who is tempted by--by----"

"By what, my dear?" "By love," said Lucy, hanging her head, whilst the blush
that came into her cheeks was like the revelation of the glory of the red rose
to the first delicate light of sunrise. Then with a sudden impulse of confidence
she added fluently: "He was wasting his time at Old Harbour Town. He fell into
vicious habits and modes of getting money which he detested, but the
opportunities offered, and strong as he is as a sailor, he proved himself weak
as a man." "As a gentleman!" said Captain Acton, who followed his daughter's
words with mingled impatience and wonder. "I feel that I am greatly to blame in
this dreadful trouble," said Lucy. "I am sure that it was his love for me, his
desire to gain me as his wife, his horror at the prospect of being an outcast
through debt, his resolution to lead an honest life and perhaps a noble life,
should I become his wife and should he obtain your forgiveness; these things I
am convinced drove him into a sort of madness in which he invented this
desperate plot which could never be forgiven in any man who was not as brave and
well-bred as Mr Lawrence, nor as--as----"

"D'ye mean handsome, Lucy?" said Captain Acton. "For the dog is that." "But what
is to happen to him," said Lucy, "if you carry him back to England? I would
rather hear," she cried, with an emphasis which may have borrowed note and
complexion from the impulse of her late impersonations of madness, "of the
_Minorca_ having sunk and carried him down to the bottom of the sea with her,
than live to witness his degradation and perhaps his death and the misery and
the broken-heartedness that must come to his dear old father, if you do not
prove his friend, and help to reclaim a nature that in its essence is beautiful,
and a fulfilment of the purest woman's ideal." Captain Acton walked half the
length of the extent of deck they were pacing, before he spoke. "Your dear
mother," said he calmly, "whose genius as an actress I cannot help thinking has
descended to you, though never once in all your life have you given me reason
for suspecting the existence of a gift, not wonderful by mere power of mimicry,
but astonishing by its art of persuading and convincing the beholder that what
he sees is the living thing itself: your sweet and blessed mother, though a
staunch upholder of her sex, was fond of a saying which she had found in Pope:

'Nothing so true as what you once let fall,     Most women have no character at
all.' She meant by this, as Pope, or rather Horace, held, that a woman may have
a very great genius, and yet be so weak in the significant and quint-essential
actions of her life as to prove herself characterless. You have behaved with
amazing heroism. You found yourself in the hands of one of the most unscrupulous
of men----"

"No, sir," she said. "You are placed in the most helpless situation a woman
could find herself in: at sea, locked up in a cabin, and all the crew, who might
otherwise have helped you, believing that you were running away with Mr
Lawrence, and that your imprisonment and your representations and your madness
were part of a programme preconcerted between you and your lover. You realise
the horrors and peril of your position, and by virtue of the mother's genius
that came to your help, you decided upon a behaviour which you magnificently
conducted. So much for the better part of you: but what remains? To be wooed--
shall I say won?--it is necessary for your sweetheart to act the part of a
scoundrel. He must steal my ship and kidnap my only child, and heap lie upon
lie, and then, to be sure, he is a very pretty gentleman, a noble, gallant
rogue, at root a man of a lordly soul, of a most chivalrous and fighting spirit
to be made much of--in short, to fall desperately in love with." Lucy bit her
under-lip, but certainly the general expression of her face was not one of
displeasure. "So, my dear, you see that your mother was right in putting faith
in her quotation, 'Most women have no characters at all.'" Whether Lucy would
have replied to this cannot be known, for just then the hand stationed aloft
sung out: "Sail ho!" "Where away?" "Right ahead, sir." But the stranger remained
so long invisible from the deck whilst she could be easily distinguished from
the height of the fore-topgallant and then from the fore-topsail yard, and then
from midway the altitude of the fore-shrouds, that it was not before the
afternoon had passed into a golden brightness of westering sunlight that the
ship right ahead revealed her canvas to the quarterdeck of the _Aurora_. From
the moment the ship in sight was reported expectation aboard the _Aurora_ sprang
and grew. Was she the _Minorca_? She was undoubtedly square-rigged, but the
lenses of the comparatively feeble telescopes of those days could not determine
before it fell dusk, whether she was rigged aft with square yards or merely with
the mizzen and gaff topsail which made the _Minorca_ a barque. The Admiral was
restless; he paced the deck with unwearied legs, and when the sail ahead had
hove her canvas into view, he sent endless searchings of her through his
telescope, but never could arrive at an opinion. Captain Acton was self-
possessed, and his manner was marked by contemplation as though the
possibilities the ship in sight suggested filled him with earnest and
bewildering considerations. Lucy was of opinion that the ship must prove the
_Minorca_. She well understood that the two vessels could not be far asunder,
and quite rationally concluded that the sail ahead was the barque. It would have
needed, however, a keener gaze than either Captain Acton or the Admiral was
capable of bringing to bear, to penetrate to the girl's thoughts. Whilst the
distant vessel leaned like a small orange flame gently blown sideways by the
wind upon the early evening purple of the horizon, Lucy would overhang the rail
with her brooding, beautiful eyes dwelling upon that far-off vision, and the
expression of her face was in these intervals of motionless posture and
steadfast regard, as though she was asleep and dreamt, and that her dream was
partly sweet and partly vexing and bitter, so that her whole look was that of
one who slumbers, through whose sealed lids a vision of sleep slides to the
heart to trouble its pulse. Captain Weaver believed that the vessel was the
_Minorca_: because, first, she carried royals; next, because she happened to be
where she was; third, the leisureliness with which the _Aurora_ rose her seemed
to prove that her pace was that of the barque. But the dusk drew round; the
gloom of night came along in that thickness of shadow which under such heights
as the _Aurora_ was then sailing, seemed swift to persons accustomed to the
northern twilights. And at the hour in which the shades of the coming night had
with their viewless fingers effaced the stranger from the sight of the _Aurora_,
and shaken some stars into their places, the sail had been risen by the
_Aurora_, till on the heave of the swell her hull to the height of her bulwarks
from the edge of the sea was visible. And then she was steeped in darkness. The
moon was without power until shortly after midnight; her light silvered the
sails of the ship ahead, and she grew out of the gloom into a fairy-like fantasy
that might have been some symmetrical form of moon-touched mist fleeting down
the wind, or some snow-robed height whose base lay behind the horizon. The
Admiral was on deck, and so was Captain Acton, and Captain Weaver had also
stepped out of the deck-house to take a look round. The stranger was now
sufficiently near to be determinable by the glass even in moonshine; and so soon
as she sprang into being under the magical flourish of the wand of the moon, it
was known for a surety that she was not the _Minorca_. She was square-rigged
aft, and made a big, broad cloud as she rolled along under topgallant, topmast,
and lower stun-sails. The breeze that had blown throughout the day still blew,
and the circumstance of the stranger having kept ahead of the _Aurora_ for many
hours was proof of her nimble keel. "She sails faster than the _Minorca_,
gentlemen," said Captain Weaver. "She has the appearance of a frigate," said
Captain Acton, working away at her with his glass. "Is that _your_ opinion,
sir?" Captain Weaver asked the Admiral. After a pause, during which he carefully
scrutinised the vessel, "She has every appearance of being a frigate," the
Admiral answered. Of what nation, if an armed ship? A wide berth was to be given
to the Tricolour or the Spanish Flag. After much debate the order was given for
sail to be reduced that the _Aurora's_ pace might not outmeasure that of the
stranger, until break of day should yield a better idea of her character.
Meanwhile she must be closely watched, and at the first shift of the stranger's
helm the _Aurora_ must out with all wings and slide away from gun range with the
despatch the wind could give her. The dark moonlit hours thus passed, and the
_Aurora_ followed the stranger, but at a distance that was out of cannon reach.
At daylight the vessel proved to be a frigate; she was painted black, with red
gun-ports and red tompions. But this was no evidence of her nationality, for it
was only comparatively recently that Nelson had caused ships under his command
to carry white bands which the portholes for the guns chequered with black
squares. And many ships of the State in 1805 were black in hull and some of them
yellow. "We must take our chance," said Captain Acton to Weaver, "and end our
doubts in the only possible way. See that our ensign blows clear for the eyes
aboard of her." As the ship ahead was almost stern on, they ran the British
ensign to the _Aurora's_ mizzen-mast head whence it streamed, a "meteor flag,"
in the silver-white glory of the sun. In a few moments the English colours were
hoisted aboard the stranger, on which the Admiral delivered a British cheer,
which was caught up and re-echoed by a few of the crew forward. Immediately
every stitch of canvas that the schooner carried was set, and bending to the
pressure of the fine breeze that was now flashing from right abeam, gracing the
multitudinous run of the surge with the various splendours of the morning's
light; the three-masted American-built clipper _Aurora_ thrashed through it in
her pursuit of the black British frigate at a rate of sailing that within three
hours brought her within speaking distance of the man-of-war. Before this
happened, however, Captain Acton had called a council of his daughter and the
Admiral, and a resolution had been arrived at of which the nature will appear in
a few moments. The frigate seemed unquestionably of foreign build; but the name
_Phoebe_, written in large characters upon her stern over which from the peak of
the mizzen-gaff streamed the flag of our country, was a warranty that whatever
nationality her builders had boasted, she was now a British ship. She was
somewhat old in years, as was manifested by her fore-mast that was stepped too
far forward to please a critical eye, whilst her main-mast stood too far aft,
its nearness to the mizzen-mast offending the gaze by an appearance of crowding.
But she was very spick and span: as fresh as though just launched; her glossy,
black sides trembled with the lustre of the sea; her canvas was spacious and
superb in cut and set. The white line of hammock cloths delightfully contrasted
with the gilt rope of beading which ran the length of her below the wash streak,
and which terminated on the stern in a flourish of gilt scroll amid which the
windows gleamed darkly like those of Old Harbour House duskily shining amidst
the foliage of creepers. The regular enquiry was made from the frigate's
quarterdeck by an officer, and the regular information was supplied by Captain
Weaver. "I will send a boat aboard of you!" was the shout which immediately
followed Weaver's response. "Shorten sail, or shake the way out of her as you
please!" "Just what could have been wished!" exclaimed Captain Acton to the
Admiral. "She suspects us. 'Twill save a world of bawling." Sail was at once
shortened aboard the schooner and the helm put down, which held the canvas
shuddering in smart ripplings of shadow, whilst on board the frigate the lower
stun-sail was taken in, the other stun-sails boom-ended, the main topsail yard
backed to the wind and the ship's way arrested, all with the alacrity and
quietude which are to be found only in a British man-of-war in perfection. Down
sank a boat from the davits with a lieutenant in the stern sheets, and six
sailors to pull her, and in a dozen strokes of the blades feathering in fire to
the sunlight and dropping jewels of brilliant dyes ere they were buried for the
next foaming impulse, the boat was alongside the schooner. The lieutenant
mounted the short length of steps which had been flung over through the open
gangway and saluted the little ship as all sea-gentlemen do, or should, when
they step aboard a vessel, even though she should be as mean as an Irish hooker.
The Admiral, Captain Acton, and Captain Weaver stood in the gangway to receive
the officer, a man whose portrait should be painted by the caricaturing brush of
a Michael Scott. He was this side of forty, and a great Roman nose stood out
like a flying jib between two gaunt cheeks whose hollows when he was silent made
you think he was sucking in his breath. He wore a pigtail under a very old,
tarnished cocked hat. His uniform coat was scarcely held together by the
tailor's thread, and appeared to have travelled a score of times round the world
in an age when a voyage round the world was regarded as something more
prodigious than we should now consider a voyage to the moon, if such a journey
were practicable. His shoes were rusty; his hose had gone into mourning over an
absence of soap that was all the same as the death of his laundress. Yet despite
a garb that made a travesty of the human figure there was something
distinguished and even noble in the man's bearing. It was to be seen at once
(and no masterful capacity of penetration was needed) that in this officer was
the gentleman of old blood, poor and proud, a loyal subject whose heart's life
was at the service of his King and country. It might be thought that the first
person in the group this gentleman's eyes fastened upon was Lucy. She would be
held to appeal in her sweetness, colour, freshness, and youth to a sailor as a
nosegay of lovely flowers to a lover of flowers who for months has lived forlorn
in a desert of sand. But instead of looking at Lucy, the lieutenant stared at
the Admiral with a very great deal of visible speculation in the screwed-up cock
of his eye, till his face relaxed with these words: "Pray, sir, did you ever
hear of Billy Lawrence?" "Who commanded His Britannic Majesty's sloop _Merlin_?"
cried Sir William. "My dear Fellowes, this is indeed an unexpected meeting. And
you knew me before I should have known you!" They grasped hands. "Acton, let me
introduce an old shipmate--Lieutenant Fellowes. Captain Acton--Miss Lucy Acton."
"Of the Norfolk Fellowes?" enquired Captain Acton, after bows and smiles had
been exchanged. "Ay, sir," exclaimed the Admiral; "and as a man of Norfolk
myself I am proud of the family whose records do honour to the dear old county."
"Pray, what is your ship, sir?" asked Captain Acton. "The _Phoebe_." "Who's her
captain?" "Lord Garlies." "Ha!" said Captain Acton. "He was at St Vincent." "As
a spectator only, I think, sir," answered Mr Fellowes. "His lordship evidently
suspects us," said Captain Acton, laughing. "Why, to be sure," said the
lieutenant, laughing also, "you have a very slaving, piratical look. Who would
expect to find a British Admiral aboard so rakish a craft?" "But unarmed,
Fellowes, unarmed!" exclaimed the Admiral. "You won't want to see our papers,
will ye?" And the worthy old sailor chuckled heartily from his throat to the
bottom of his waistcoat. "Will you step into the deck-house, sir," said Captain
Acton, "and learn our strange story, which shall not detain you long." Mr
Fellowes bowed with a smile which charmed Lucy by its good-nature, and by the
light it kindled in the man's face, where she witnessed that sort of breeding
which her heart, as the hearts of most women who are ladies at heart, delight
in. The party of four entered the structure, and the cabin servant was ordered
to put refreshments on the table. "This is the yarn, Fellowes," said the
Admiral, who, it had been pre-arranged, was to tell the story. "My friend Acton
is the owner of this schooner; he is also the owner of another ship, called the
_Minorca_. Now, this ship, of which my friend was good enough to give the
command to my son----"

"A fine fellow," interrupted Mr Fellowes. "How is he?" "Pretty well--pretty
middling, I thank ye," answered the Admiral. "But just now in a bit of a fix. It
has come to our knowledge that there has been a mutiny on board the _Minorca_,
and that the crew are navigating the vessel to Rio de Janeiro----"

"The _Phoebe_ is bound to that port," again interrupted Mr Fellowes. "Good!"
cried the Admiral, with an expressive look at Captain Acton--"instead,"
continued Sir William, "of Kingston, Jamaica, to which place her cargo is
consigned. We are following her in this clipper, which outsails her by two to
one, and we have reason to know that she is now about two days in advance of us.
The _Minorca_ is armed: we are not. And your captain will be conferring a very
great favour upon us if, seeing that the _Phoebe_ is almost as swift as this
schooner, he will allow us to keep him company, so that if we jointly fall in
with the _Minorca_, her crew may be overawed by the guns of the frigate." "Lord
Garlies, I am sure, will be happy to oblige you, Sir William, and your friend,
in any way he can," said the lieutenant. "Pray, how did you happen to hear of
the seizure of the ship and her shift of course to Rio?" "The news was
communicated to us," said the Admiral, "in a letter which had been written
before the ship sailed by a conspicuous member of the crew. A copy of this
letter fell into Captain Acton's hands on the very day the _Minorca_ left Old
Harbour Town, and my friend immediately arranged to pursue his ship in this
smart schooner when she could be got ready." The Admiral spoke with a steady
face and with a steady voice. He was giving a version of the story which to all
intents and purposes was true, and there was nothing in the relation, as
previously devised, to alarm his conscience as a gentleman and a man of honour
by inaccuracy. "I see," exclaimed Mr Fellowes. "But are you sure of the
situation of the chase?" "Why, sir, yes, as sure as we can be of anything at
sea," said Captain Acton, who thought it judicious and proper to join in.
"Yesterday we spoke the brig _Louisa Ann_ of Whitby, who reported that three
days before, she had asked for some provisions from a ship named the _Minorca_
whose rig was that of my barque. There is no doubt that my ship is just ahead of
us, and that our superior sailing will enable us to overhaul her within a week.
The effect of the frigate's presence will be to rescue the capture from the
trouble of bloodshed. When your guns are seen, sir, and the character of your
ship distinguished, the mutineers will back their topsail yard and leave us to
quietly take possession." The lieutenant politely nodded his agreement with this
view, and finished his glass of brandy and soda-water. At long intervals, to
compare the lapses with the short time he spent on board, he directed a look at
Lucy; but the glance was that of a man who knows that women do not admire him,
and do not want him, a poor, plain, and elderly man: and whose policy, resolved
long ago, was to give the marriageable part of the sex a very wide berth. The
conversation at the Admiral's instance, and to his own and the relief of Captain
Acton and his daughter, was now changed into a few questions and answers which
have nothing whatever to do with this narrative; and after a visit that had
lasted about twenty minutes, Mr Fellowes took his leave, cordially and with a
hearty handshake bidding his old captain God-speed and farewell, and bowing with
dignity and much respect and a pleasant kindness of expression of face to
Captain Acton, and the sweet girl whose story, had the Admiral or Captain Acton
thought fit to relate it, would no doubt have exchanged his light, superficial,
uncritical regard into a gaze of admiration and astonishment. "I suppose that is
Lord Garlies whom he is addressing," exclaimed Captain Acton, on the arrival of
the lieutenant at his ship. The question was answered by the person thus
referred to coming to the ship's side after receiving Mr Fellowes' report. The
preliminary hail having been bawled--the two vessels lay close together, and
those aboard one might hear the wash of the waters alongside the other, in the
falls of silence--the person referred to by Captain Acton shouted: "I shall have
much pleasure in complying with your request." "We beg to thank you most
cordially," replied the Admiral, who, in response to Captain Acton's desire, was
acting as spokesman in this passage. "May I venture to ask if I have the honour
of addressing my Lord Garlies?" His lordship bowed: upon which the Admiral and
Captain Acton paid him the homage of their hats in a well-accentuated flourish
of courtesy, for not only was Lord Garlies a brave man and a fine seaman: he was
the son of an earl and heir to a title which made a claim that in its way was
not less irresistible in 1805 than it may be found a hundred years later. "The
best course we can adopt," cried Lord Garlies, "is to keep the width of the
horizons between us. I will take the western and you the eastern seaboard. This
from aloft will enable us to command a large surface of sea. The rig of the
vessel you are chasing will determine her for us. If I sight such a vessel on
the starboard bow, I will hoist a large red flag at the mizzen-royal-masthead;
if on the larboard bow, a white flag at the same place. You will hoist your
answering signal and manoeuvre to close us; but that shall be as the wind may
prove. If you sight your ship, it will suffice if you hoist your ensign at your
mizzen topmast head, and an answering signal will tell you that we intend to
close with you in chase." This was deliberately delivered and clearly heard,
and, with a flourish of his hand, Lord Garlies stepped back. In a few minutes
sail had been trimmed on both vessels, and when each had measured a distance
that gave the other no more than a sight of her bulwarks upon the sea line, the
helm was put amidships and the frigate and the schooner were steered along that
course in which they hoped in a few days to overhaul the _Minorca_. They were
sailing in bright latitudes where the weather is warm, where often the sea rolls
in a languid silken swell like the gentle heavings of a carpet of the sheen of
satin under-blown, where the stars shine with brilliance and the moon at her
full has an almost sun-like power. And very fortunately the two ships were
favoured with fine and sparkling days vital with favourable winds. Throughout
the daylight hours the two ships held each other steadily in view, the schooner
under slightly reduced canvas, and the frigate under a press, and at night each
signalled her place by rockets discharged at intervals, so that always when day
broke the brace of pursuing structures were found to be either abreast, or
almost so, each sunk from the sight of the other to the line of her bulwarks.
Came a fine, glittering morning towards the middle of June. It was about half an
hour after daybreak: the sun had risen, and the flood of brilliance lay broad
upon the sea in the east. Captain Acton was dressing in his cabin, when his door
was rapped upon, and Captain Weaver, whose manner was full of excitement,
reported a sail in sight, right in the centre of the horizon betwixt the two
ships. "The frigate has hoisted her signal, sir," he said, "and we have made
ours." "I'll be with you in a minute. She is too far off, I suppose, for the
glass to resolve her." "I guess she is the barque, sir, if the frigate's signal
is right. They command a greater height aboard of her than we can, and I fancy
they have twigged something fore-and-aft on the mizzen-mast." It was two bells
in the afternoon watch--one o'clock--at which hour the frigate and the schooner
had closed each other. By this time the ship ahead had been raised to a full
sight of her hull. But long before this she had been made out as the _Minorca_,
by that unmistakable signal of her character--the fore-and-aft canvas on her
mizzen- and top-masts. The breeze was steady. All three ships heeled to it. The
frigate foamed bending under studding sails, the schooner under all the canvas
she could set, and the barque leaned under the heavy strain of every cloth she
carried. It would be impossible to describe the feelings, sensations, passions
of three of the principal actors in this story. Who can analyse human emotion
when its state is one of almost chaotic conflict? Sir William Lawrence being
satisfied that the sail ahead was Captain Acton's barque, fixed his face in a
mask iron-hard with resolution to endure, come what would. His answers were
short, and to the point. He had little to say. His tendency to the garrulity of
old age had temporarily withered; he was as grim and reserved as though he
commanded a line-of-battle ship, whose stern-walk was exclusively his promenade.
He was an old sailor and a gentleman: he prided himself upon his descent; he
greatly loved honour and loyalty, which is the spirit of honour, and above all,
he loved truth. Yonder was his son in charge of a ship he was endeavouring to
steal from his benefactor; he had by a base stratagem kidnapped the sweet and
beautiful daughter of his friend; he had proved himself a liar, a thief, a
scoundrel in the most voluminous sense of the word. The people of the frigate
commanded by Lord Garlies might, doubtless must, come to hear all about his
wrongdoing, and through them the story would leak with plenty of colour and
plenty of exaggeration, into every ward-room and gun-room and cockpit in His
Majesty's Service. These were thoughts and considerations to hold the Admiral
austerely silent, and keep him to himself whilst the chase continued. Captain
Acton and Lucy often walked the deck deep in talk. The Captain had decided in
his own mind to place Eagle in charge of the _Minorca_, with orders to proceed
to Kingston, providing there was no disaffection amongst the crew, and Mr
Lawrence would be transferred to the _Aurora_ and conveyed to England. What
excuses would he plead? What apologies would he offer? What sort of a figure
would he make in the sight of his father? in the thoughts of the girl whom in
the sacred name of love he had used with such reckless cruelty, as to deprive
her of her reason, as he supposed? in the opinion of the kindly gentleman whose
confidence he had grossly abused? Would he, when landed in England, consent to
ship as a sailor before the mast, and conceal himself for the remainder of his
life in a distant land? If not, what would he do? What must be his fate? But
though father and daughter talked these matters over whilst they stepped the
white planks and whilst the ship ahead slowly enlarged, the topics which engaged
them did not contain all, indeed they did not contain even a very little, of the
thoughts which crowded Lucy's mind and gave a dozen varying expressions to her
beauty in as many minutes. At about three o'clock in the afternoon the frigate
fired one of her bow guns apparently at the _Minorca_, a stern, laconic message
to her to heave to; for hours ago it was perceived that the chase was the vessel
Captain Acton and the Admiral were hunting; and for hours it must have been
known aboard the barque that one of the pursuing ships was a frigate heavily
armed, and the other a fabric perfectly familiar to every man in the _Minorca_,
as the three-masted schooner _Aurora_, the property of the owner of the barque.
Indeed the chase was now so near that with the unaided vision her men might be
seen moving upon her decks, and the Admiral's telescope was levelled at a tall
figure that stood solitary and apart upon the barque's quarter, surveying with
folded arms and erect carriage the ships which were following him with foam to
their hawse-pipes. When the _Phoebe's_ cannon suddenly thundered, the Admiral
dropped his telescope to look at the frigate, and when he again directed the
glass at the _Minorca_, the tall figure, that he well knew to be his son, had
vanished. Scarcely had the ball of satin-white smoke, belched from the cannon's
mouth, been shredded by the wind and carried low over the heads of the breaking
seas in rags and lengths like pieces of a torn silk veil, when the helm of the
barque was put down, stun-sail halliards were let go, all in such a hurry that
the sails fouled the booms and yard-arms, and painted a scene of confusion
aloft, that might have stood as a perfect picture of panic at sea; the yards on
the main were laboriously hauled around and the main topsail backed and the
barque was at rest, rolling and tumbling very uncomfortably with a great deal of
flying and flapping aloft, one man at the wheel, two men standing close beside
him in a posture of waiting, and the fore-part of the bulwarks from the gangway
to the fore-rigging lined with the heads of the crew. The barque was swiftly
neared by the pursuing ships, and when they were within easy oars' range or
hailing distance their way was arrested, and immediately down sank a boat from
the frigate's side with Mr Fellowes steering her and six sailors, as before,
rowing her. The boat made directly for the schooner. "Before we board the
_Minorca_," said Captain Acton to the Admiral, "we must hear what Fellowes
proposes, or what instructions he comes with from Lord Garlies." But as he said
these words one of the two figures on the _Minorca_ who stood close to the
wheel, bawled, with his hand protecting his mouth from the sidelong sweep of the
wind: "The ship's at your sarvice, your honours; and right glad we are that
you've overhauled us, as it is about time we was under lawful government."
"That's Eagle!" said Captain Acton. "'Tis clear that the crew have not mutinied
against my interests." He flourished his hand in token that Mr Eagle's words had
been heard, and that the rest was to come. The man-of-war's boat swept
alongside, and Mr Fellowes, received by Captain Acton and the Admiral, stepped
through the gangway. "Can I put you on board your ship, gentlemen?" he said. "My
crew are armed, and their presence alongside may calm the passions of the
turbulent among that lot," he added, with a nod at the barque. The invitation
was accepted with many thanks. Sir William Lawrence was very grave, his looks
were stern, almost fierce, as he entered the boat. Captain Acton was cool and
thoughtful. His brow was knitted; his lips were set. His demeanour was that of a
self-possessed man confronted by a condition of things rendered complex by
features extraneous to the main trouble or difficulty, yet confounding it by
their existence. Lucy watched the scene from the after-part of the _Aurora's_
quarterdeck. She stood alone in that part of the ship leaning upon the rail, and
once or twice her gaze followed the boat that was bearing her father and the
Admiral to the _Minorca_; but it was chiefly directed at the barque whose length
she explored for a sight of the tall figure whom she had immediately recognised
as Mr Lawrence, whilst Sir William was surveying his son through his glass. She
mused upon the amazing passage of her life that had filled the interval between
the time of her going on board yonder ship, believing her father to be lying
dangerously injured in her, down to the hour of her transference to the Whitby
brig. Never was her pensive beauty more fascinating than now, whilst her soft
dark eyes brooded upon the ship that had been her floating prison. What would Mr
Lawrence say or think when he came to understand that her madness was feigned, a
dramatic stratagem to obtain liberty and restoration? How would he--but how
_could_ he--face his father whom he had degraded, and her father whom he had
robbed and wronged? She sighed; the distress of her heart saddened her face with
a meaning as of tears. Mr Eagle stood at the head of the side ladder when
Captain Acton and the others stepped on board. At his elbow was Mr Pledge. Some
of the crew were grinning, and all seemed to be hugely delighted by what was
happening. "We have followed and found you, sir," were Captain Acton's first
words to Mr Eagle. "S'elp me, your honour, it's no fault of any man aboard
saving the party you gave the command of this ship to," answered Mr Eagle in a
profoundly respectful, obsequious, yet sour and protesting manner and voice as
though he had been wounded in a very delicate part of his honour. "I'm here to
witness to that, sir, and so's the men," said Mr Pledge. "Reserve what you have
to say for my private ear!" exclaimed Captain Acton, with a severe look and in a
stern voice. "Where is your Captain?" "He left the deck when the frigate fired a
gun," replied Mr Eagle, "and I haven't seen him since." "I believe he's done for
himself," said Mr Pledge, addressing nobody in particular; "I fancied I heer'd a
shot fired in the cabin." "You didn't run down to see?" cried Captain Acton.
"Come, Sir William! Will you kindly follow, Mr Fellowes?" And attended by the
two he had named, he hastened to the companion-hatch and all three ran below.
The cabin--the "great cabbin," as it would have been called by our ancestors--
was empty of everything but its furniture. Captain Acton knew his ship. He
walked straight to the door of the Captain's berth or cabin--that compartment in
which Mr Walter Lawrence had locked up Miss Lucy Acton--and threw it open. The
sight that met their eyes caused an instant arrest in the movements of the three
gentlemen from one of whom, the Admiral, an exclamation in the note of a groan
escaped. On his face stretched along the cabin floor, his arms extended, his
right hand grasping the butt-end of a pistol, was the body of Mr Lawrence. That
the pistol had quite recently been exploded might be known by the smell of the
gunpowder that lurked in the atmosphere. By the side of this motionless figure
lying prone, knelt the distorted shape of Paul, the steward, who, on the door
being flung open, and on catching sight of Captain Acton and the Admiral, sprang
to his feet and recoiled into a corner of the cabin, with his face blanched by
terror which had immediately visited him on top of the wild, uncalculating
passion of grief which commonly besieges vulgar persons of this man's mental
calibre who are likewise freaks of nature. After a moment or two of hesitation
due to the consternation excited by the unexpected spectacle upon the cabin
deck, Captain Acton and Mr Fellowes ran to the prostrate man, and Acton cried:
"He has shot himself!" "Help me to turn him over, sir," said Mr Fellowes. "I
don't think he is dead." They gently rolled the dead, or dying, man on to his
back, and the nature of his injury appeared. He was clothed in white trousers, a
light blue coat, and a shirt the front of which was ornamented by some light
tracing like flowers. He was without a cravat, and his head was uncovered. The
left side of his shirt was soaked in blood, and the singed hole through which
the bullet had passed from the weapon whose muzzle he had pressed to his breast,
was visible in the thick of the dark crimson dye. His face was marble-white. It
wore an expression of torture. His lips were parted and grey. The eyelids were
half-closed, and the whites of the eye only were visible. The Admiral stood
looking as though petrified. All the wrath that was in him, all the fierce and
terrible thoughts which had raged in his heart and prepared his tongue for a
delivery desperate and fearful in the mouth of a father, melted, vanished, faded
as smoke in the air, as a shred of mist torn from a cloud in the sky, and his
face wore an expression of unutterable grief, of horror beyond expression in
words, every passion and emotion it displayed being irradiated by the light of a
father's love which had seemed to be waning and expiring in its socket, but
which found life and power in that mute, irresistible prayer addressed to him as
a father by an only son whose valour he had honoured, whose beauty he was proud
of, whose life appealed to him more deeply in that his career had been halted by
an act of folly when his reputation stood high for heroic daring. He went to the
side of the body; he looked down upon the face with tearless eyes, and with that
same dry sob in his throat which Captain Acton had heard when the poor old
gentleman spoke after Mr Greyquill's visit, then sank upon his knees beside his
son, muttering: "Walter, oh, Walter, that it should have come to this! I loved
you, my son--may God pity me, and have mercy upon you!" Captain Acton, deeply
affected by his friend's distress, concealed his face by turning his head. Mr
Fellowes, who had grasped Mr Lawrence's wrist, cried out: "I feel a thread of
pulse. He is not dead. I'll away for our medico, and shall be back with him in a
jiffey." He ran out of the cabin. The Admiral pillowed his son's head with his
arm, and gazed at the marble-still features. Never could any man appear more
stricken, though 'tis hard to tell by posture or by expression of face the depth
of human sorrow, the pang of the wound that death alone can heal. His only son--
whom he had cursed for his wickedness--whose professional life, extinguished by
an act of drunken madness, had swelled the eyes of the father with the unshed
tears of the spirit of a man--lying dead or dying on his arm--self-slain! "Were
you here when Mr Lawrence shot himself?" exclaimed Captain Acton to the
hunchback Paul, who cowered in his corner with white cheeks and terrified looks.
"No, your honour," howled the wretch; "I heard the shot and ran in. I'd have
asked him to shoot me instead--I loved him, your honour--I worshipped him, kind
gentlemen--he was good to me, he was the only friend I ever had in the world.
I'd have died over and over again for him." The hunchback broke down, and roared
in tears. "He lives, Acton," said the Admiral in a low voice. "Some brandy and
water might bring him to." Captain Acton told Paul to fetch some, and the wild,
deformed creature of the forest, as Lucy had called him, sped from the cabin on
the errand. It proved as the Admiral had said. After a little brandy and water
had been poured between the ashen lips, Mr Lawrence opened his eyes. They opened
full upon his father, whose face was stooped close to him. Consciousness was
tardy in her awakening, but on a sudden the prostrate, bleeding man recognised
his father, and with that look of recognition there must have come to him some
vision of memory presenting scenes of his past. He frowned, sighed, turned his
eyes upon Captain Acton, and closed them, but not as though he had fainted, for
the lids were firm set. Whilst they waited for the arrival of the frigate's
surgeon, Captain Acton asked Paul some questions which the hunchback answered as
though when the examination was over the Captain would send him to be hanged
forthwith at the yard-arm. In an agony of impatience the Admiral awaited the
arrival of the medical man, who, considering that there was a space of blown and
running sea for the boat to cross and re-cross, returned with Mr Fellowes in a
space of time that was the expression of the habitual and disciplined
promptitude of everything in which time finds a place, that is carried on aboard
a British man-of-war. He had been told what had happened, and presented himself
equipped with wool, lint, and bandages. He speedily discovered that the pistol
had been discharged at the place where Mr Lawrence supposed his heart to beat.
The unfortunate man imagined that the heart is on the left side of the body,
whereas it is nearly in the middle, and is well protected by the breast-bone and
ribs, so well indeed that only a small portion is unprotected. The bullet had
passed clean through the chest and left lung, and come out just below the left
blade-bone of the shoulder. The surgeon, on removing Mr Lawrence's shirt and
vest, found the bullet, which had not pierced the vest. The wounds of entrance
and of exit were easily seen, and the former was bleeding freely. When the wound
had been dressed, during which Mr Lawrence kept his eyes shut and his teeth set
--he was in mortal pain--the Admiral asked him gently if he suffered much. Mr
Lawrence opened his eyes and looked at his father, and smiled slightly. Faint as
the smile was, mingled as it was with the distortion of anguish, it had in it
the charm of a manly beauty which only the decay of the grave could destroy, and
in it also were remorse and gratitude. His lips parted in the words, "No, sir,"
and again his eyes closed. Captain Acton, the surgeon, and Mr Fellowes went into
the cabin, leaving the Admiral and his son to themselves. "Will he live?" asked
Captain Acton. "I don't see why he shouldn't, sir; the wound is not mortal. But
he will require to be very carefully nursed," answered the surgeon, with the
coolness and manner of indifference which are a characteristic of the official
medical man who is unburdened with stimulating considerations of practice and
fees. "There'll not be much nursing to be got out of this shipful of rough
sailors," said Mr Fellowes. "What a fine, manly, gallant young officer was lost
to the Service in Walter Lawrence! What made him shoot himself?" "Do you think,
sir, that he could with safety be transferred to the _Aurora_?" asked Captain
Acton, with an appearance of anxiety that seemed to render his evasion of Mr
Fellowes' question undesigned. "We could nurse him there. We are a comfortable
little ship, better found--certainly in the way of the cabin--than this vessel."
The three on this hint fell into a brief and earnest conversation, and in a few
minutes Sir William was called to participate in the discussion and deliver his
views, whilst the surgeon re-entered the berth to consider afresh the condition
of the patient. Meanwhile Lucy Acton watched and waited on the quarterdeck of
the _Aurora_. The hour was about half-past four. The breeze was sinking with the
sun; it still blew with weight enough to keep the sails of the three ships
steady. But the dance of the sea was growing languid, the rolling foam of the
breaking head was wanting in brilliance of flash and friskiness of somersault;
the blue of the deep was darkening, and spread in violet shot with light blue
and purple gleams to the margin of the reflected glory of the sun where the
lines of light steeped into the richer colour. Lucy had watched the sailors of
the barque gather in the confusion of studding-sails until the vessel looked as
trim and fit aloft as need be; she had also watched the passage of the
_Phoebe's_ boat to the frigate, and its return to the barque with one man more,
whose position on board she could not imagine, neither that nor the reason for
his being fetched. The man-of-war lay near, rolling languidly, lifting her
copper sheathing on fire with wet sunshine, pointing her guns at the sea as the
bright buttons of her trucks described arcs upon the blue sky like the flight of
meteors in the velvet deeps of night. But now at half-past four the girl seemed
to witness a commotion on board the barque. A man went aloft to the main-yard
arm, and another to the fore-yard arm, and some one standing upon the
quarterdeck of the _Minorca_, in a voice by which she guessed him to be Mr
Fellowes, hailed the schooner, and requested Captain Weaver to send whips aloft
to hoist a sick man in a litter aboard. Lucy, having sought in vain for any
signs of Mr Lawrence or her father, or the Admiral on board the _Minorca_, ran
to Captain Acton's cabin and tried to see the barque through his glass.
Unfortunately she could not use both hands; she needed one to keep her eye shut;
therefore, when she balanced the glass upon the rail, the rolling of the
schooner caused the object she tried to see to slide up and down in the lens
like a toy monkey on a stick in the hands of a child. However, with her unhelped
vision, she presently saw a something resembling the short stage which is slung
over a ship's side for men to stand upon to paint, or do carpentry work, float
from the deck of the barque to a certain elevation between the fore and main-
yard-arms, where tackles or whips had been rigged; she then perceived this
something slowly descend into the man-of-war's boat alongside, into which,
immediately afterwards, some figures tumbled from the flight of steps at the
gangway, and the boat made for the schooner. As the little craft rapidly
approached, swept onwards by six powerful oarsmen, Lucy quickly began to
distinguish the inmates who, in the stern sheets or aft, consisted of the
Admiral, Mr Fellowes, and a stranger. She could also see what resembled a
stretcher lying with its head upon the aftermost thwart and the heel upon an
unoccupied space in the stern sheets. The girl trembled, and wondered, and
stared. Where was her father? Who was the sick man? Where was Mr Lawrence? The
boat drew alongside, but not until the arrangement of plank and mattress upon
which lay Mr Lawrence had been swayed over the rail of the schooner, and softly
and tenderly lowered on to the deck, did she know that the sick man in the
ship's litter was the lover whose passion for her had defied the gibbet in its
unscrupulous, reckless, daring, headlong determination to achieve. She ran to
the side of what may be called the litter, and looked down upon the face that
rested upon a bolster. She clasped her hands. She compressed her lips. No
exclamation escaped her, but one saw in her beautiful face the expression of
that deep pity which is ever the attendant of love where sorrow is or suffering.
Mr Lawrence's eyes were open. They looked straight up at her; tormented as he
was, his pain had no influence over the composition of his feelings. It was a
stare rather than a gaze: and in that stare was profound astonishment at the
sight of her, likewise amazement at the sanity of a face, which, when he had
last seen it, was deformed, as he had believed, by the madness his behaviour had
wrought in her; but before all, and stealing into and illuminating the
complicated emotions conveyed by his eyes, was the love which had ever beamed in
them when he turned them upon her, a light not to be lessened or obscured by any
conflict of passion. The Admiral, Mr Fellowes, and the surgeon had come on board
when the litter was being lowered, and stood in momentary pause beside it,
whilst men were summoned to convey the wounded man to his father's cabin. Lucy
swept round to the Admiral, and with her hands still clasped, cried to him
softly: "Oh, Sir William, it is your son--I could not imagine--is he dying--will
he die?" The surgeon who stood close, and who had been gazing at the young lady
with admiration of her face and charms of figure and wonder at finding so
beautiful a girl in a little schooner at sea, exclaimed: "I am surgeon of yonder
frigate, madam. This gentleman will not die, provided he is carefully and
judiciously nursed." "I will nurse him," cried Lucy. A faint smile lighted up
the features of Mr Lawrence, who slightly moved his head to cast his eyes upon
her. "Oh, madam, my dearest madam," exclaimed the Admiral in a voice broken with
feeling, "how am I to thank you? What words do your angelic goodness leave me
for the conveyance of my gratitude?" "You will tell me, sir," said Lucy,
addressing the surgeon, "what I am to do, and I will do it. Where is he
wounded?" "Near the heart. He shot himself!" said the Admiral. Some men were now
arrived. They picked up the litter with careful hands, and in a sort of
procession Mr Lawrence was conveyed into the deck-house, Lucy walking beside
him, whilst behind stepped the Admiral, Mr Fellowes, and the _Phoebe's_ surgeon.
Once only did Lucy speak in that solemn march from the quarterdeck into the
little interior. She looked back and asked: "Where is my father?" "He is
remaining on board the _Minorca_ to see after affairs there, madam," answered
the Admiral. "I believe Captain Weaver is to take charge of the barque, and
Captain Acton will himself sail the schooner home." The litter was carried into
the Admiral's cabin, and Lucy and the surgeon followed. *       *       *
*       *       *       *       *

Lucy Acton's ardently uttered exclamation, "I will nurse him," cannot fail to an
intelligent and imaginative reader to immediately reveal the