CHAPTER I

A COLD WIND FROM ADRIANOPLE

It is now the middle of February, 1451. Constantine has been Emperor a trifle
over three years, and proven himself a just man and a conscientious ruler. How
great he is remains for demonstration, since nothing has occurred to him--
nothing properly a trial of his higher qualities. In one respect the situation
of the Emperor was peculiar. The highway from Gallipoli to Adrianople, passing
the ancient capital on the south, belonged to the Turks, and they used it for
every purpose--military, commercial, governmental--used it as undisputedly
within their domain, leaving Constantine territorially surrounded, and with but
one neighbor, the Sultan Amurath. Age had transformed the great Moslem; from
dreams of conquest, he had descended to dreams of peace in shaded halls and
rose-sprent gardens, with singers, story-tellers, and philosophers for
companions, and women, cousins of the houris, to carpet the way to Paradise; but
for George Castriot, [Footnote: Iskander-beg--Scanderbeg. _Vide_ GIBBON's _Roman
Empire._] he had abandoned the cimeter. Keeping terms of amity with such a
neighbor was easy--the Emperor had merely to be himself peaceful. Moreover, when
John Palaeologus died, the succession was disputed by Demetrius, a brother to
Constantine. Amurath was chosen arbitrator, and he decided in favor of the
latter, placing him under a bond of gratitude. Thus secure in his foreign
relations, the Emperor, on taking the throne, addressed himself to finding a
consort; of his efforts in that quest the reader is already informed, leaving it
to be remarked that the Georgian Princess at last selected for him by Phranza
died while journeying to Constantinople. This, however, was business of the
Emperor's own inauguration, and in point of seriousness could not stand
comparison with another affair imposed upon him by inheritance--keeping the
religious factions domiciled in the capital from tearing each other to pieces.
The latter called for qualities he does not seem to have possessed. He permitted
the sectaries to bombard each other with sermons, bulletins and excommunications
which, on the ground of scandal to religion, he should have promptly suppressed;
his failure to do so led to its inevitable result--the sectaries presently
dominated him. Now, however, the easy administration of the hitherto fortunate
Emperor is to vanish; two additional matters of the gravest import are thrust
upon him simultaneously, one domestic, the other foreign; and as both of them
become turning points in our story, it is advisable to attend to them here. When
the reins of government fell from the hands of Amurath, they were caught up by
Mahommed; in other words, Mahommed is Sultan, and the old regime, with its
friendly policies and stately courtesies, is at an end, imposing the necessity
for a recast of the relations between the Empires. What shall they be? Such is
the foreign question. Obviously, the subject being of vital interest to the
Greek, it was for him to take the initiative in bringing about the definitions
desired. With keen appreciation of the danger of the situation he addressed
himself to the task. Replying to a request presented through the ambassador
resident at Adrianople, Mahommed gave him solemn assurances of his disposition
to observe every existing treaty. The response seems to have made him over-
confident. Into the gilded council chamber at Blacherne he drew his personal
friends and official advisers, and heard them with patience and dignity. At the
close of a series of deliberative sessions which had almost the continuity of
one session, two measures met his approval. Of these, the first was so
extraordinary it is impossible not to attribute its suggestion to Phranza, who,
to the immeasurable grief and disgust of our friend the venerable Dean, was now
returned, and in the exercise of his high office of Grand Chamberlain. Allusion
has been already made to the religious faith of the mother of Mahommed.
[Footnote: "For it was thought that his (Amurath's) eldest son Mahomet, after
the death of his father, would have embraced the Christian Religion, being in
his childhood instructed therein, as was supposed, by his mother, the daughter
of the Prince of Servia, a Christian." --KNOLLES' _Turk. Hist._, 239, Vol. I.
"He (Mahommed) also entered into league with Constantinus Palaeologus, the
Emperor of Constantinople, and the other Princes of Grecia; as also with the
Despot of Servia, his Grandfather by the mother's side, as some will have it;
howbeit some others write that the Despot his daughter, Amurath his wife (the
Despot's daughter, Amurath's wife) was but his Mother-in-law, whom he, under
colour of Friendship, sent back again unto her Father, after the death of
Amurath, still allowing her a Princely Dowery."--_Ibid_. 230. On this very
interesting point both Von Hammer and Gibbon are somewhat obscure; the final
argument, however, is from Phranza: "After the taking of Constantinople, she
(the Princess) fled to Mahomet II." (GIBBON'S _Rom. Emp._, Note 52, 12.) The
action is significant of a mother. Mothers-in-law are not usually so doting.]
The daughter of a Servian prince, she is supposed to have been a Christian.
After the interment of Amurath, she had been returned to her native land. Her
age was about fifty. Clothed with full powers, the Grand Chamberlain was
despatched to Adrianople to propose a marriage between His Majesty, the Emperor,
and the Sultana mother. The fears and uncertainties besetting the Greek must
have been overwhelming. The veteran diplomat was at the same time entrusted with
another affair which one would naturally think called for much less delicacy in
negotiation. There was in Constantinople then a refugee named Orchan, of whose
history little is known beyond the fact that he was a grandson of Sultan
Solyman. Sometime presumably in the reign of John Palaeologus, the Prince
appeared in the Greek capital as a pretender to the Sultanate; and his claim
must have had color of right, at least, since he became the subject of a treaty
between Amurath and his Byzantine contemporary, the former binding himself to
pay the latter an annual stipend in aspers in consideration of the detention of
the fugitive. With respect to this mysterious person, the time was favorable, in
the opinion of the council, for demanding an increase of the stipend.
Instructions concerning the project were accordingly delivered to Lord Phranza.
The High Commissioner was received with flattering distinction at Adrianople. He
of course presented himself first to the Grand Vizier, Kalil Pacha, of whom the
reader may take note, since, aside from his reappearances in these pages, he is
a genuine historic character. To further acquaintance with him, it may be added
that he was truly a veteran in public affairs, a member of the great family to
which the vizierat descended almost in birthright, and a friend to the Greeks,
most likely from long association with Amurath, although he has suffered severe
aspersion on their account. Kalil advised Phranza to drop the stipend. His
master, he said, was not afraid of Orchan, if the latter took the field as an
open claimant, short work would be made of him. The warning was disregarded.
Phranza submitted his proposals to Mahommed directly, and was surprised by his
gentleness and suavity. There was no scene whatever. On the contrary, the
marriage overture was forwarded to the Sultana with every indication of
approval, nor was the demand touching the stipend rejected; it was simply
deferred. Phranza lingered at the Turkish capital, pleased with the attentions
shown him, and still more with the character of the Sultan. In the judgment of
the Envoy the youthful monarch was the incarnation of peace. What time he was
not mourning the loss of his royal father, he was studying designs for a palace,
probably the Watch Tower of the World (_Jehan Numa_), which he subsequently
built in Adrianople. Well for the trusting master in Blacherne, well for
Christianity in the East, could the credulous Phranza have looked in upon the
amiable young potentate during one of the nights of his residence in the Moslem
capital! He would have found him in a chamber of impenetrable privacy, listening
while the Prince of India proved the calculations of a horoscope decisive of the
favorable time for beginning war with the Byzantines. "Now, my Lord," he could
have heard the Prince say, when the last of the many tables had been refooted
for the tenth time--"now we are ready for the ultimate. We are agreed, if I
mistake not"--this was not merely a complimentary form of speech, for Mahommed,
it should be borne in mind, was himself deeply versed in the intricate and
subtle science of planetary prediction--"we are agreed that as thou art to essay
the war as its beginner, we should have the most favorable Ascendant,
determinable by the Lord, and the Planet or Planets therein or in conjunction or
aspect with the Lord; we are also agreed that the Lord of the Seventh House is
the Emperor of Constantinople; we are also agreed that to have thee overcome thy
adversary, the Emperor, it is better to have the Ascendant in the House of one
of the Superior Planets, Saturn, Jupiter or Mars"--

"Jupiter would be good, O Prince," said Mahommed, intensely interested, "yet I
prefer Mars." "My Lord is right again." The Seer hesitated slightly, then
explained with a deferential nod and smile: "I was near saying my Lord is always
right. Though some of the adepts have preferred Scorpio for the Ascendant,
because it is a fixed sign, Mars pleases me best; wherefore toward him have I
directed all my observations, seeking a time when he shall certainly be better
fortified than the Lord of the Seventh House, as well as elevated above him in
our figure of the Heavens." Mahommed leaned far over toward the Prince, and said
imperiously, his eyes singularly bright: "And the ultimate--the time, the time,
O Prince! Hast thou found it? Allah forbid it be too soon!--There is so much to
be done--so much of preparation." The Prince smiled while answering:

"My Lord is seeing a field of glory--his by reservation of destiny--and I do not
wonder at his impatience to go reaping in it; but" (he became serious) "it is
never to be forgotten--no, not even by the most exalted of men--that the Planets
march by order of Allah alone." ... Then taking the last of the calculations
from the table at his right hand, he continued: "The Ascendant permits my Lord
to begin the war next year." Mahommed heard with hands clinched till the nails
seemed burrowing in the flesh of the palms. "The day, O Prince!--the day--the
hour!" he exclaimed. Looking at the calculation, the Prince appeared to reply
from it: "At four o'clock, March twenty-sixth"--

"And the year?" "Fourteen hundred and fifty-two." "_Four o'clock, March twenty-
sixth, fourteen hundred and fifty-two_," Mahommed repeated slowly, as if writing
and verifying each word. Then he cried with fervor: "There is no God but God!"
Twice he crossed the floor; after which, unwilling probably to submit himself at
that moment to observation by any man, he returned to the Prince:

"Thou hast leave to retire; but keep within call. In this mighty business who is
worthier to be the first help of my hands than the Messenger of the Stars?" The
Prince saluted and withdrew. At length Phranza wearied of waiting, and being
summoned home left the two affairs in charge of an ambassador instructed to
forego no opportunity which might offer to press them to conclusions. Afterwhile
Mahommed went into Asia to suppress an insurrection in Caramania. The Greek
followed him from town to camp, until, tiring of the importunity, the Sultan one
day summoned him to his tent. "Tell my excellent friend, the Lord of
Constantinople, thy master, that the Sultana Maria declines his offer of
marriage." "Well, my Lord," said the ambassador, touched by the brevity of the
communication, "did not the great lady deign an explanation?" "She declined--
that is all." The ambassador hurried a courier to Constantinople with the
answer. For the first time he ventured to express a doubt of the Turk's
sincerity. He would have been a wiser man and infinitely more useful to his
sovereign, could he have heard Mahommed again in colloquy with the Prince of
India. "How long am I to endure this dog of a _Gabour?_" [Footnote: Mahommed
always wrote and spoke of Byzantines as _Romans_, except when in passion; then
he called them _Gabours_.] asked the Sultan, angrily. "It was not enough to
waylay me in my palace; he pursued me into the field; now he imbitters my bread,
now at my bedside he drives sleep from me, now he begrudges me time for prayer.
How long, I say?" The Prince answered quietly: "Until March twenty-sixth,
fourteen hundred and fifty-two." "But if I put him to sleep, O Prince?" "His
master will send another in his place." "Ah, but the interval! Will it not be so
many days of rest?--so many nights of unbroken sleep?" "Has my Lord finished his
census yet? Are his arsenals full? Has he his ships, and sailors, and soldiers?
Has he money according to the estimate?" "No." "My Lord has said he must have
cannon. Has he found an artificer to his mind?" Mahommed frowned. "I will give
my Lord a suggestion. Does it suit him to reply now to the proposal of marriage,
keeping the matter of the stipend open, he may give half relief and still hold
the Emperor, who stands more in need of bezants than of a consort." "Prince,"
said Mahommed, quickly, "as you go out send my secretary in." "Despatch a
messenger for the ambassador of my brother of Constantinople. I will see him
immediately." This to the secretary. And presently the ambassador had the matter
for report above recited. In the report he might have said with truth--a person
styling himself _Prince of India_ has risen to be Grand Vizier in fact, leaving
the title to Kalil. These negotiations, lamentably barren of good results, were
stretched through half the year. But it is necessary to leave them for the time,
that we may return and see if the Emperor had better success in the management
of the domestic problem referred to as an inheritance. CHAPTER II

A FIRE FROM THE HEGUMEN'S TOMB

The great fire burned its way broadly over two hills of the city, stopping at
the wall of the garden on the eastern front of Blacherne. How it originated, how
many houses were destroyed, how many of the people perished in the flames and in
the battle waged to extinguish them, were subjects of unavailing inquiry through
many days. For relief of the homeless, Constantine opened his private coffers.
He also assumed personal direction of the removal of the debris cumbering the
unsightly blackened districts, and, animated by his example, the whole
population engaged zealously in the melancholy work. When Galata, laying her
jealousies aside, contributed money and sent companies of laborers over to the
assistance of her neighbor, it actually seemed as if the long-forgotten age of
Christian brotherhood was to be renewed. But, alas! This unity, bred of so much
suffering, so delightful as a rest from factious alarms, so suggestive of
angelic society and heavenly conditions in general, disappeared--not slowly, but
almost in a twinkling. It was afternoon of the second day after the fire. Having
been on horseback since early morning, the Emperor, in need of repose, had
returned to his palace; but met at the portal by an urgent request for audience
from the Princess Irene, he received her forthwith. The reader can surmise the
business she brought for consideration, and also the amazement with which her
royal kinsman heard of the discovery and rescue of Lael. For a spell his self-
possession forsook him. In anticipation of the popular excitement likely to be
aroused by the news, he summoned his councillors, and after consultation,
appointed a commission to investigate the incident, first sending a guard to
take possession of the cistern. Like their master, the commissioners had never
heard of the first profanation of the ancient reservoir; as a crime,
consequently, this repetition was to them original in all its aspects, and they
addressed themselves to the inquiry incredulously; but after listening to
Sergius, and to the details the little Jewess was able to give them, the
occurrence forced itself on their comprehension as more than a crime at law--it
took on the proportions and color of a conspiracy against society and religion.
Then its relative consequences presented themselves. Who were concerned in it?
The name of Demedes startled them by suddenly opening a wide horizon of
conjecture. Some were primarily disposed to welcome the intelligence for the
opportunity it offered His Majesty to crush the Academy of Epicurus, but a
second thought cooled their ardor; insomuch that they began drawing back in
alarm. The Brotherhood of the St. James' was powerful, and it would certainly
resent any humiliation their venerable Hegumen might sustain through the
ignominious exposure of his son. In great uncertainty, and not a little
confusion, the commissionate body hied from the Princess Irene to the cistern.
While careful to hide it from his associates, each of them went with a scarce
admitted hope that there would be a failure of the confirmations at least with
respect to the misguided Demedes; and not to lose sight of Nilo, in whom they
already discerned a serviceable scapegoat, they required him to go with them.
The revelations call for a passing notice. In the court the body of the keeper
was found upon the pavement. The countenance looked the terror of which the man
died, and as a spectacle grimly prepared the beholders for the disclosures which
were to follow. There was need of resolution to make the dismal ferriage from
the lower platform in the cistern, but it was done, Nilo at the oars. When the
visitors stepped on the landing of the "palace," their wonder was unbounded.
When they passed through the battered doorway, and standing under the circlet,
in which the lights were dead, gazed about them, they knew not which was most
astonishing, the courage of the majestic black or the audacity of the projector
of the villanous scheme. But where was he? We may be sure there was no delay in
the demand for him. While the fishing tongs were being brought, the apartments
were inspected, and a list of their contents made. Then the party collected at
the edge of the landing. The secret hope was faint within them, for the
confirmations so far were positive, and the terrible negro, not in the least
abashed, was showing them where his enemy went down. They gave him the tongs,
and at the first plunge he grappled the body, and commenced raising it. They
crowded closer around him, awe-struck yet silently praying: Holy Mother, grant
it be any but the Hegumen's son! A white hand, the fingers gay with rings,
appeared above the water. The fisherman took hold of it, and with a triumphant
smile, drew the corpse out, and laid it face up for better viewing. The garments
were still bright, the gilded mail sparkled bravely. One stooped with the light,
and said immediately:

"It is he--Demedes!" Then the commissioners looked at each other--there was no
need of speech--a fortunate thing, for at that instant there was nothing of
which they were more afraid. Avoidance of the dreaded complications was now
impossible--so at least it seemed to them. Up in the keeper's room, whither they
hurriedly adjourned, it was resolved to despatch a messenger to His Majesty with
an informal statement of the discoveries, and a request for orders. The
unwillingness to assume responsibility was natural. Constantine acted promptly,
and with sharp discernment of the opportunity afforded the mischief-makers. The
offence was to the city, and it should see the contempt in which the
conspirators held it, the danger escaped, and the provocation to the Most
Righteous; if then there were seditions, his conscience was acquit. He sent
Phranza to break the news to the Hegumen, and went in person to the Monastery,
arriving barely in time to receive the blessings of his reverend friend, who,
overcome by the shock, died in his arms. Returning sadly to Blacherne, he
ordered the corpses of the guilty men to be exposed for two days before the door
of the keeper's house, and the cistern thrown open for visitation by all who
desired to inspect the Palace of Darkness, as he appropriately termed the
floating tenement constructed with such wicked intents. He also issued a
proclamation for the suppression of the Epicurean Academy, and appointed a day
of Thanksgiving to God for the early exposure of the conspiracy. Nilo he sent to
a cell in the Cynegion, ostensibly for future trial, but really to secure him
from danger; in his heart he admired the King's spirit, and hoped a day would
come when he could safely and suitably reward him. On the part of the people the
commotion which ensued was extraordinary. They left the fire to its smouldering,
and in steady currents marched past the ghastly exhibits prepared for them in
the street, looked at them, shuddered, crossed themselves, and went their ways
apparently thankful for the swiftness of the judgment which had befallen; nor
was there one heard to criticise the Emperor's course. The malefactors were
dropped, like unclean clods, into the earth at night, without ceremony or a
mourner in attendance. Thus far all well. At length the day of thanksgiving
arrived. By general agreement, there was not a sign of dissatisfaction to be
seen. The most timorous of the commissioners rested easy. Sancta Sophia was the
place appointed for the services, and Constantine had published his intention to
be present. He had donned the Basilean robes; his litter was at the door of the
palace; his guard of horse and foot was formed, when the officer on duty at the
gate down by the Port of Blacherne arrived with a startling report. "Your
Majesty," he said, unusually regardless of the ancient salutation, "there is a
great tumult in the city." The imperial countenance became stern. "This is a day
of thanks to God for a great mercy; who dares profane it by tumult?" "I must
speak from hearsay," the officer answered.... "The funeral of the Hegumen of the
St. James took place at daylight this morning"--

"Yes," said Constantine, sighing at the sad reminder, "I had intended to assist
the Brotherhood. But proceed." "The Brothers, with large delegations from the
other Monasteries, were assembled at the tomb, when Gennadius appeared, and
began to preach, and he wrought upon his hearers until they pushed the coffin
into the vault, and dispersed through the streets, stirring up the people." At
this the Emperor yielded to his indignation. "Now, by the trials and sufferings
of the Most Christian Mother, are we beasts insensible to destruction? Or idiots
exempt from the penalties of sin and impiety? And he--that genius of unrest--
that master of foment--God o' Mercy, what has he laid hold of to lead so many
better men to betray their vows and the beads at their belts? Tell me--speak--my
patience is nearly gone." For an instant, be it said, the much tried Sovereign
beheld a strong hand move within reach, as offering itself for acceptance. No
doubt he saw it as it was intended, the symbol and suggestion of a policy. Pity
he did not take it! For then how much of mischance had been averted from himself
--Constantinople might not have been lost to the Christian world--the Greek
Church had saved its integrity by recognizing the union with the Latins
consummated at the Council of Florence--Christianity had not been flung back for
centuries in the East, its birthplace. "Your Majesty," the officer returned, "I
can report what I heard, leaving its truth to investigation.... In his speech by
the tomb Gennadius admitted the awfulness of the crime attempted by Demedes, and
the justice of the punishment the young man suffered, its swiftness proving it
to have been directed by Heaven; but he declared its conception was due to the
Academy of Epicurus, and that there remained nothing deserving study and penance
except the continued toleration without which the ungodly institution had passed
quickly, as plagues fly over cities purified against them. The crime, he said,
was ended. Let the dead bury the dead. But who were they responsible for grace
to the Academy? And he answered himself, my Lord, by naming the Church and the
State." "Ah! He attacked the Church then?" "No, my Lord, he excused it by saying
it had been debauched by an _azymite_ Patriarch, and while that servant of
prostitution and heresy controlled it, wickedness would be protected and go on
increasing." "And the State--how dealt he with the State?" "The Church he
described as Samson; the Patriarch, as an uncomely Delilah who had speciously
shorn it of its strength and beauty; the State, as a political prompter and
coadjutor of the Delilah; and Rome, a false God seeking to promote worship unto
itself through the debased Church and State." "God o' Mercy!" Constantine
exclaimed, involuntarily signing to the sword-bearer at his back; but recovering
himself, he asked with forced moderation: "To the purpose of it all--the object.
What did he propose to the Brothers?" "He called them lovers of God in the
livery of Christ, and implored them to gird up their loins, and stand for the
religion of the Fathers, lest it perish entirely." "Did he tell them what to
do?" "Yes, my Lord." A wistful, eager look appeared on the royal face, and
behind it an expectation that now there would be something to justify arrest and
exile at least--something politically treasonable. "He referred next to the
thanksgiving services appointed to-day in Sancta Sophia, and declared it an
opportunity from Heaven, sent them and all the faithful in the city, to begin a
crusade for reform; not by resort to sword and spear, for they were weapons of
hell, but by refusing to assist the Patriarch with their presence. A vision had
come to him in the night, he said--an angel of the Lord with the Madonna of
Blacherne--advising him of the Divine will. Under his further urgency--and my
Lord knows his power of speech--the Brothers listening, the St. James' and all
present from the other Orders, broke up and took to the streets, where they are
now, exhorting the people not to go to the Church, and there is reason to
believe they will"--

"Enough," said the Emperor, with sudden resolution. "The good Gregory shall not
pray God singly and alone." Turning to Phranza, he ordered him to summon the
court for the occasion. "Let not one stay away," he continued; "and they shall
put on their best robes and whole regalia; for, going in state myself, I have
need of their utmost splendor. It is my will, further, that the army be drawn
from their quarters to the Church, men, music, and flags, and the navies from
their ships. And give greeting to the Patriarch, and notify him, lest he make
haste. Aside from these preparations, I desire the grumblers be left to pursue
their course unmolested. The sincere and holy amongst them will presently have
return of clear light." This counter project was entered upon energetically.
Shortly after noon the military bore down to the old Church, braying the streets
with horns, drums and cymbals, and when they were at order in the immense
auditorium, their banners hanging unfurled from the galleries, the Emperor
entered, with his court; in a word, the brave, honest, white-haired Patriarch
had company multitudinous and noble as he could desire. None the less, however,
Gennadius had his way also--_the people took no part in the ceremony_. After the
celebration, Constantine, in his chambers up in Blacherne, meditated upon the
day and its outcome. Phranza was his sole attendant. "My dear friend," the
Emperor began, breaking a long silence, and much disquieted, "was not my
predecessor, the first Constantine, beset with religious dissensions?" "If we
may credit history, my Lord, he certainly was." "How did he manage them?" "He
called a Council." "A Council truly--was that all?" "I do not recollect anything
more." "It was this way, I think. He first settled the faith, and then provided
against dispute." "How, my Lord?" "Well, there was one Arius, a Libyan,
Presbyter of a little church in Alexandria called Baucalis, preacher of the
Unity of God"--

"I remember him now." "Of the Unity of God as opposed to the Trinity. Him the
first Constantine sent to prison for life, did he not?" Thereupon Phranza
understood the subject of his master's meditation; but being of a timid soul,
emasculated by much practice of diplomacy, usually a tedious, waiting
occupation, he hastened to reply: "Even so, my Lord. Yet he could afford to be
heroic. He had consolidated the Church, and was holding the world in the hollow
of his hand." Constantine allowed a sigh to escape him, and lapsed into silence;
when next he spoke, it was to say slowly:

"Alas, my dear friend! The people were not there"--meaning at Sancta Sophia. "I
fear, I fear"--

"What, my Lord?" Another sigh deeper than the first one: "I fear I am not a
statesman, but only a soldier, with nothing to give God and my Empire except a
sword and one poor life." These details will help the reader to a fair
understanding of the domestic involvements which overtook the Emperor about the
time Mahommed ascended the Turkish throne, and they are to be considered in
addition to the negotiations in progress with the Sultan. And as it is important
to give an idea of their speeding, we remark further, that from the afternoon of
the solemnity in Sancta Sophia the discussion then forced upon him went from bad
to worse, until he was seriously deprived both of popular sympathy and the
support of the organized religious orders. The success of the solemnity in point
of display, and the measures resorted to, were not merely offensive to Gennadius
and his ally, the Duke Notaras; they construed them as a challenge to a trial of
strength, and so vigorously did they avail themselves of their advantages that,
before the Emperor was aware of it, there were two distinct parties in the city,
one headed by Gennadius, the other by himself and Gregory the Patriarch. Month
by month the bitterness intensified; month by month the imperial party fell away
until there was little of it left outside the court and the army and navy, and
even they were subjected to incessant inroads--until, finally, it came to pass
that the Emperor was doubtful whom to trust. Thereupon, of course, the season
for energetic repressive measures vanished, never to return. Personalities,
abuse, denunciation, lying, and sometimes downright blows took the place of
debate in the struggle. One day religion was an exciting cause; next day,
politics. Throughout it all, however, Gennadius was obviously the master-spirit.
His methods were consummately adapted to the genius of the Byzantines. By
confining himself strictly to the Church wrangle, he avoided furnishing the
Emperor pretexts for legal prosecution; at the same time he wrought with such
cunning that in the monasteries the very High Residence of Blacherne was spoken
of as a den of _azymites_, while Sancta Sophia was abandoned to the Patriarch.
To be seen in the purlieus of the latter was a signal for vulgar anathemas and
social ostracism. His habits meantime were of a sort to make him a popular idol.
He grew, if possible, more severely penitential; he fasted and flagellated
himself; he slept on the stony floor before his crucifix; he seldom issued from
his cell, and when visited there, was always surprised at prayers, the burden of
which was forgiveness for signing the detested Articles of Union with the
Latins. The physical suffering he endured was not without solace; he had
heavenly visions and was attended by angels. If in his solitude he fainted, the
Holy Virgin of Blacherne ministered to him, and brought him back to life and
labor. First an ascetic, then a Prophet--such was his progression. And
Constantine was a witness to the imposture, and smarted under it; still he held
there was nothing for him but to temporize, for if he ordered the seizure and
banishment of the all-powerful hypocrite, he could trust no one with the order.
The time was dark as a starless night to the high-spirited but too amiable
monarch, and he watched and waited, or rather watched and drifted, extending
confidence to but two counsellors, Phranza and the Princess Irene. Even in their
company he was not always comfortable, for, strange to say, the advice of the
woman was invariably heroic, and that of the man invariably weak and
accommodating. From this sketch the tendencies of the government can be right
plainly estimated, leaving the suspicion of a difference between the first
Constantine and the last to grow as the evils grew. CHAPTER III

MIRZA DOES AN ERRAND FOR MAHOMMED

Vegetation along the Bosphorus was just issuing from what may be called its
budded state. In the gardens and protected spots on the European side white and
yellow winged butterflies now and then appeared without lighting, for as yet
there was nothing attractive enough to keep them. Like some great men of whom we
occasionally hear, they were in the world before their time. In other words the
month of May was about a week old, and there was a bright day to recommend it--
bright, only a little too much tinctured with March and April to be all
enjoyable. The earth was still spongy, the water cold, the air crisp, and the
sun deceitful. About ten o'clock in the morning Constantinopolitans lounging on
the sea-wall were surprised by explosive sounds from down the Marmora.
Afterwhile they located them, so to speak, on a galley off St. Stephano. At
stated intervals, pale blue smoke would burst from the vessel, followed by a
hurry-skurry of gulls in the vicinity, and then the roar, muffled by distance.
The age of artillery had not yet arrived; nevertheless, cannon were quite well
known to fame. Enterprising traders from the West had sailed into the Golden
Horn with samples of the new arm on their decks; they were of such rude
construction as to be unfit for service other than saluting. [Footnote: Cannon
were first made of hooped iron, widest at the mouth. The process of casting them
was just coming in.] So, now, while the idlers on the wall were not alarmed,
they were curious to make out who the extravagant fellows were, and waited for
the flag to tell them. The stranger passed swiftly, firing as it went; and as
the canvas was new and the hull freshly painted in white, it rode the waves to
appearances a very beautiful "thing of life;" but the flag told nothing of its
nationality. There were stripes on it diagonally set, green, yellow, and red,
the yellow in the middle. "The owners are not Genoese"--such was the judgment on
the wall. "No, nor Venetian, for that is not a lion in the yellow." "What, then,
is it?" Pursued thus, the galley, at length rounding Point Serail (Demetrius),
turned into the harbor. When opposite the tower of Galata, a last salute was
fired from her deck; then the two cities caught up the interest, and being able
to make out decisively that the sign in the yellow field of the flag was but a
coat-of-arms, they said emphatically:

"It is not a national ship--only a great Lord;" and thereupon the question
became self-inciting:

"Who is he?" Hardly had the anchor taken hold in the muddy bed of the harbor in
front of the port of Blacherne, before a small boat put off from the strange
ship, manned by sailors clad in flowing white trousers, short sleeveless
jackets, and red turbans of a style remarkable for amplitude. An officer,
probably the sailing-master, went with them, and he, too, was heavily turbaned.
A gaping crowd on the landing received the visitor when he stepped ashore and
asked to see the captain of the guard. To that dignitary he delivered a despatch
handsomely enveloped in yellow silk, saying, in imperfect Greek:

"My Lord, just arrived, prays you to read the enclosure, and send it forward by
suitable hand. He trusts to your knowledge of what the proprieties require. He
will await the reply on his galley." The sailing-master saluted profoundly,
resumed seat in his boat, and started back to the ship, leaving the captain of
the guard to open the envelope and read the communication, which was
substantially as follows:

"From the galley, St. Agostino, May 5, Year of our Blessed Saviour, 1451. "The
undersigned is a Christian Noble of Italy, more particularly from his strong
Castle Corti on the eastern coast of Italy, near the ancient city of Brindisi.
He offers lealty to His Most Christian Majesty, the Emperor of Constantinople,
Defender of the Faith according to the crucified Son of God (to whom be honor
and praise forevermore), and humbly represents that he is a well-knighted
soldier by profession, having won his spurs in battle, and taken the accolade
from the hand of Calixtus the Third, Bishop of Rome, and, yet more worthily, His
Holiness the Pope: that the time being peaceful in his country, except as it was
rent by baronial feuds and forays not to his taste, he left it in search of
employment and honors abroad; that he made the pilgrimage to the Holy Sepulchre
first, and secured there a number of precious relics, which he is solicitous of
presenting to His Imperial Majesty; that from long association with the Moslems,
whom Heaven, in its wisdom impenetrable to the understanding of men, permits to
profane the Holy Land with their presence and wicked guardianship, he acquired a
speaking knowledge of the Arabic and Turkish languages; that he engaged in
warfare against those enemies of God, having the powerful sanction therefor of
His Holiness aforesaid, by whose direction he occupied himself chiefly with
chastising the Berber pirates of Tripoli, from whom he took prisoners, putting
them at his oars, where some of them now are. With the august city of Byzantium
he has been acquainted many years through report, and, if its fame be truly
published, he desires to reside in it, possibly to the end of his days.
Wherefore he presumes to address this his respectful petition, praying its
submission to His Most Christian Majesty, that he may be assured if the proposal
be agreeable to the royal pleasure, and in the meantime have quiet anchorage for
his galley. UGO, COUNT CORTI." In the eyes of the captain of the guard the paper
was singular, but explicit; moreover, the request seemed superfluous,
considering the laxity prevalent with respect to the coming and going of persons
of all nativities and callings. To be sure, trade was not as it used to be, and,
thanks to the enterprise and cunning of the Galatanese across the harbor, the
revenues from importations were sadly curtailed; still the old city had its
markets, and the world was welcome to them. The argument, however, which
silenced the custodian's doubt was, that of the few who rode to the gates in
their own galleys and kept them there ready to depart if their reception were in
the least chilling, how many signed themselves as did this one? Italian counts
were famous fighters, and generally had audiences wherever they knocked. So he
concluded to send the enclosure up to the Palace without the intermediation of
the High Admiral, a course which would at least save time. While the affair is
thus pending, we may return to Count Corti, and say an essential word or two of
him. The cannon, it is to be remarked, was not the only novelty of the galley.
Over the stern, where the aplustre cast its shadow in ordinary crafts, there was
a pavilion-like structure, high-raised, flat-roofed, and with small round
windows in the sides. Quite likely the progressive ship-builders at Palos and
Genoa would have termed the new feature a cabin. It was beyond cavil an
improvement; and on this occasion the proprietor utilized it as he well might.
Since the first gun off St. Stephano, he had held the roof, finding it the best
position to get and enjoy a view of the capital, or rather of the walls and
crowned eminences they had so long and all-sufficiently defended. A chair had
been considerately brought up and put at his service, but in witness of the
charm the spectacle had for him from the beginning, he did not once resort to
it. If only to save ourselves description of the man, and rescue him from a
charge of intrusion into the body of our story, we think it better to take the
reader into confidence at once, and inform him that Count Corti is in fact our
former acquaintance Mirza, the Emir of the Hajj. The difference between his
situation now, and when we first had sight of him on his horse under the yellow
flag in the valley of Zaribah is remarkable; yet he is the same in one
particular at least--he was in armor then, and he is still in armor--that is, he
affects the same visorless casque, with its cape of fine rings buckled under the
chin, the same shirt and overalls of pliable mail, the same shoes of transverse
iron scales working into each other telescopically when the feet are in
movement, the same golden spurs, and a surcoat in every particular like the
Emir's, except it is brick-dust red instead of green. And this constancy in
armor should not be accounted a vanity; it was a habit acquired in the school of
arms which graduated him, and which he persisted in partly for the inurement,
and partly as a mark of respect for Mahommed, with whom the gleam and clink of
steel well fashioned and gracefully worn was a passion, out of which he evolved
a suite rivalling those kinsmen of the Buccleuch who--

"--quitted not their harness bright, Neither by day nor yet by night." Returning
once again. It was hoped when Mirza was first introduced that every one who
might chance to spend an evening over these pages would perceive the
possibilities he prefigured, and adopt him as a favorite; wherefore the interest
may be more pressing to know what he, an Islamite supposably without guile, a
Janissary of rank, lately so high in his master's confidence, is doing here,
offering lealty to the Most Christian Emperor, and denouncing the followers of
the Prophet as enemies of God. The appearances are certainly against him. The
explanation due, if only for coherence in our narrative, would be clearer did
the reader review the part of the last conversation in the White Castle between
the Prince of India and Mahommed, in which the latter is paternally advised to
study the Greek capital, and keep himself informed of events within its walls.
Yet, inasmuch as there is a current in reading which one once fairly into is
loath to be pushed out of, we may be forgiven for quoting a material passage or
two.... "There is much for my Lord to do"--the Prince says, speaking to his
noble eleve. "It is for him to think and act as if Constantinople were his
capital temporarily in possession of another.... It is for him to learn the city
within and without; its streets and edifices; its hills and walls; its strong
and weak places; its inhabitants, commerce, foreign relations; the character of
its ruler, his resources and policies; its daily events; its cliques, clubs, and
religious factions; especially is it for him to foment the differences Latin and
Greek already a fire which has long been eating out to air in an inflammable
house."... Mahommed, it will be recollected, acceded to the counsel, and in
discussing the selection of a person suitable for the secret agency, the Prince
said: ... "He who undertakes it should enter Constantinople and live there above
suspicion. He must be crafty, intelligent, courtly in manner, accomplished in
arms, of high rank, and with means to carry his state bravely; for not only
ought he to be conspicuous in the Hippodrome; he should be welcome in the salons
and palaces; along with other facilities, he must be provided to buy service in
the Emperor's bedroom and council chamber--nay, at his elbow. Mature of
judgment, it is of prime importance that he possess my Lord's confidence
unalterably."... And when the ambitious Turk demanded: "The man, Prince, the
man!" --the wily tutor responded: "My Lord has already named him."--"I?" --"Only
to-night my Lord spoke of him as a marvel."--"Mirza?"... The Jew then proceeded:
"Despatch him to Italy; let him appear in Constantinople, embarked from a
galley, habited like an Italian, and with a suitable Italian title. He speaks
Italian already, is fixed in his religion, and in knightly honor. Not all the
gifts at the despot's disposal, nor the blandishments of society can shake his
allegiance--he worships my Lord."... Mahommed demurred to the proposal, saying:
"So has Mirza become a part of me, I am scarcely myself without him." Now he who
has allowed himself to become interested in the bright young Emir, and pauses to
digest these excerpts, will be aware of a grave concern for him. He foresees the
outcome of the devotion to Mahommed dwelt upon so strongly by the Prince of
India. An order to undertake the secret service will be accepted certainly as it
is given. The very assurance that it will be accepted begets solicitude in the
affair. Did Mahommed decide affirmatively? What were the instructions given?
Having thus settled the coherences, we move on with the narrative. It will be
remembered, further, that close after the departure of the Princess Irene from
the old Castle, Mahommed followed her to Therapia, and, as an Arab story-teller,
was favored with an extended private audience in which he extolled himself to
her at great length, and actually assumed the role of a lover. What is yet more
romantic, he came away a lover in fact. The circumstance is not to be lightly
dismissed, for it was of immeasurable effect upon the fortunes of the Emir, and
--if we can be excused for connecting an interest so stupendous with one so
comparatively trifling--the fate of Constantinople. Theretofore the Turk's
ambition had been the sole motive of his designs against that city, and, though
vigorous, driving, and possibly enough of itself to have pushed him on, there
might yet have been some delay in the achievement. Ambition derived from genius
is cautious in its first movements, counts the cost, ponders the marches to be
made and the means to be employed, and is at times paralyzed by the simple
contemplation of failure; in other words, dread of loss of glory is not seldom
more powerful than the hope of glory. After the visit to Therapia, however, love
reenforced ambition; or rather the two passions possessed Mahommed, and together
they murdered his sleep. He became impatient and irritable; the days were too
short, the months too long. Constantinople absorbed him. He thought of nothing
else waking, and dreamed of nothing else. Well for him his faith in astrology,
for by it the Prince of India was able to hold him to methodic preparation.
There were times when he was tempted to seize the Princess, and carry her off.
Her palace was undefended, and he had but to raid it at night. Why not? There
were two reasons, either of them sufficient: first, the stern old Sultan, his
father, was a just man, and friendly to the Emperor Constantine; but still
stronger, and probably the deterrent in fact, he actually loved the Princess
with a genuine romantic sentiment, her happiness an equal motive--loved her for
herself--a thing perfectly consistent, for in the Oriental idea there is always
One the Highest. Now, it was very lover-like in Mahommed, his giving himself up
to thought of the Princess while gliding down the Bosphorus, after leaving his
safeguard on her gate. He closed his eyes against the mellow light on the water,
and, silently admitting her the perfection of womanhood, held her image before
him until it was indelible in memory--face, figure, manner, even her dress and
ornaments--until his longing for her became a positive hunger of soul. As if to
give us an illustration of the mal-apropos in coincidence, his august father had
selected a bride for him, and he was on the road to Adrianople to celebrate the
nuptials when he stopped at the White Castle. The maiden chosen was of a noble
Turkish family, but harem born and bred. She might be charming, a very queen in
the Seraglio; but, alas! the kinswoman of the Christian Emperor had furnished a
glimpse of attractions which the fiancee to whom he was going could never attain
--attractions of mind and manner more lasting than those of mere person; and as
he finished the comparison, he beat his breast, and cried out: "Ah, the
partiality of the Most Merciful! To clothe this Greek with all the perfections,
and deny her to me!" Withal, there was a method in Mahommed's passion. Setting
his face sternly against violating his own safeguard by abducting the Princess,
he fell into revision of her conversation; and then a light broke in upon him--a
light and a road to his object. He recalled with particularity her reply to the
message delivered to her, supposably from himself, containing his avowal that he
loved her the more because she was a Christian, and singled out of it these
words: ... "A wife I might become, not from temptation of gain or power, or in
surrender to love--I speak not in derision of the passion, since, like the
admitted virtues, it is from God--nay, Sheik, in illustration of what may
otherwise be of uncertain meaning to him, tell Prince Mahommed I might become
his wife could I, by so doing, save or help the religion I profess." This he
took to pieces.... "'She might become a wife.' Good!... 'She might become my
wife'--on condition.... What condition?" ... He beat his breast again, this time
with a laugh. The rowers looked at him in wonder. What cared he for them? He had
discovered a way to make her his.... "Constantinople is the Greek Church," he
muttered, with flashing eyes. "I will take the city for my own glory--to her
then the glory of saving the Church! On to Constantinople!" And from that moment
the fate of the venerable metropolis may be said to have been finally sealed.
Within an hour after his return to the White Castle, he summoned Mirza, and
surprised him by the exuberance of his joy. He threw his arm over the Emir's
shoulder, and walked with him, laughing and talking, like a man in wine. His
nature was of the kind which, for the escape of feeling, required action as well
as words. At length he sobered down. "Here, Mirza," he said. "Stand here before
me.... Thou lovest me, I believe?" Mirza answered upon his knee: "My Lord has
said it." "I believe thee.... Rise and take pen and paper, and write, standing
here before me." [Footnote: A Turkish calligraphist works on his feet as
frequently as on a chair, using a pen made of reed and India ink reduced to
fluid.] From a table near by the materials were brought, and the Emir, again
upon his knees, wrote as his master dictated. The paper need not be given in
full. Enough that it covered with uncommon literalness--for the Conqueror's
memory was prodigious--the suggestions of the Prince of India already quoted
respecting the duties of the agent in Constantinople. While writing, the Emir
was variously moved; one instant, his countenance was deeply flushed, and in the
next very pale; sometimes his hand trembled. Mahommed meantime kept close watch
upon him, and now he asked:

"What ails thee?" "My Lord's will is my will," was the answer--"yet"--

"Out--speak out." "My Lord is sending me from him, and I dread losing my place
at his right hand." Mahommed laughed heartily. "Lay the fear betime," he then
said, gravely. "Where thou goest, though out of reach of my right hand, there
will my thought be. Hear--nay, at my knee." He laid the hand spoken of on
Mirza's shoulder, and stooped towards him. "Ah, my Saladin, thou wert never in
love, I take it? Well--I am. Look not up now, lest--lest thou think my bearded
cheek hath changed to a girl's." Mirza did not look up, yet he knew his master
was blushing. "Where thou goest, I would give everything but the sword of Othman
to be every hour of the day, for she abideth there.... I see a ring on thy hand
--the ruby ring I gave thee the day thou didst unhorse the uncircumcised deputy
of Hunyades. Give it back to me. 'Tis well. See, I place it on the third finger
of my left hand. They say whoever looketh at her is thenceforth her lover. I
caution thee, and so long as this ruby keepeth color unchanged, I shall know
thou art keeping honor bright with me--that thou lovest her, because thou canst
not help it, yet for my sake, and because I love her.... Look up now, my falcon
--look up, and pledge me." "I pledge my Lord," Mirza answered. "Now I will tell
thee. She is that kinswoman of the _Gabour_ Emperor Constantine whom we saw here
the day of our arrival. Or didst thou see her? I have forgotten." "I did not, my
Lord." "Well, thou wilt know her at sight; for in grace and beauty I think she
must be a daughter of the houri this moment giving immortal drink to the beloved
of Allah, even the Prophet." Mahommed changed his tone. "The paper and the pen."
And taking them he signed the instructions, and the signature was the same as
that on the safeguard on the gate at Therapia. "There--keep it well; for when
thou gettest to Constantinople, thou wilt become a Christian." He laughed again.
"Mirza--the Mirza Mahommed swore by, and appointed keeper of his heart's secret
--he a Christian! This will shift the sin of the apostasy to me." Mirza took the
paper. "I have not chosen to write of the other matter. In what should it be
written, if at all, except in my blood--so close is it to me?... These are the
things I expect of thee. Art thou listening? She shall be to thee as thine eye.
Advise me of her health, and where she goes; with whom she consorts; what she
does and says; save her from harm: does one speak ill of her, kill him, only do
it in my name--and forget not, O my Saladin!--as thou hopest a garden and a
couch in Paradise--forget not that in Constantinople, when I come, I am to
receive her from thy hand peerless in all things as I left her to-day.... Thou
hast my will all told. I will send money to thy room to-night, and thou wilt
leave to-night, lest, being seen making ready in the morning, some idiot pursue
thee with his wonder.... As thou art to be my other self, be it royally. Kings
never account to themselves.... Thou wantest now nothing but this signet." From
his breast he drew a large ring, its emerald setting graven with the signature
at the bottom of the instructions, and gave it to him. "Is there a Pacha or a
Begler-bey, Governor of a city or a province, property of my father, who
refuseth thy demand after showing him this, report him, and _Shintan_ will be
more tolerable unto him than I, when I have my own. It is all said. Go now....
We will speak of rewards when next we meet.... Or stay! Thou art to communicate
by way of this Castle, and for that I will despatch a man to thee in
Constantinople. Remember--for every word thou sendest me of the city, I look for
two of her.... Here is my hand." Mirza kissed it, and departed. CHAPTER IV

THE EMIR IN ITALY

We know now who Count Corti is, and the objects of his coming to Constantinople
--that he is a secret agent of Mahommed--that, summed up in the fewest words,
his business is to keep the city in observation, and furnish reports which will
be useful to his master in the preparation the latter is making for its
conquest. We also know he is charged with very peculiar duties respecting the
Princess Irene. The most casual consideration of these revelations will make it
apparent, in the next place, that hereafter the Emir must be designated by his
Italian appellative in full or abbreviated. Before forsaking the old name, there
is lively need of information, whether as he now stands on the deck of his
galley, waiting the permissions prayed by him of the Emperor Constantine, he is,
aside from title, the same Mirza lately so honored by Mahommed. From the time
the ship hove in sight of the city, he had kept his place on the cabin. The
sailors, looking up to him occasionally, supposed him bound by the view, so
motionless he stood, so steadfastly he gazed. Yet in fact his countenance was
not expressive of admiration or rapture. A man with sound vision may have a
mountain just before him and not see it; he may be in the vortex of a battle
deaf to its voices; a thought or a feeling can occupy him in the crisis of his
life to the exclusion of every sense. If perchance it be so with the Emir now,
he must have undergone a change which only a powerful cause could have brought
about. He had been so content with his condition, so proud of his fame already
won, so happy in keeping prepared for the opportunities plainly in his sight, so
satisfied with his place in his master's confidence, so delighted when that
master laid a hand upon his shoulder and called him familiarly, now his Saladin,
and now his falcon. Faithfully, as bidden, Mirza sallied from the White Castle
the night of his appointment to the agency in Constantinople. He spoke to no one
of his intention, for he well knew secrecy was the soul of the enterprise. For
the same reason, he bought of a dervish travelling with the Lord Mahommed's
suite a complete outfit, including the man's donkey and donkey furniture. At
break of day he was beyond the hills of the Bosphorus, resolved to skirt the
eastern shore of the Marmora and Hellespont, from which the Greek population had
been almost entirely driven by the Turks, and at the Dardanelles take ship for
Italy direct as possible--a long route and trying--yet there was in it the total
disappearance from the eyes of acquaintances needful to success in his venture.
His disguise insured him from interruption on the road, dervishes being sacred
characters in the estimation of the Faithful, and generally too poor to excite
cupidity. A gray-frocked man, hooded, coarsely sandalled, and with a blackened
gourd at his girdle for the alms he might receive from the devout, no Islamite
meeting him would ever suspect a large treasure in the ragged bundle on the back
of the patient animal plodding behind him like a tired dog. The Dardanelles was
a great stopping-place for merchants and tradesmen, Greek, Venetian, Genoese.
There Mirza provided himself with an Italian suit, adopted the Italian tongue,
and became Italian. He borrowed a chart of the coast of Italy from a sailor, to
determine the port at which it would be advisable for him to land. While
settling this point, the conversation had with the Prince of India in the
latter's tent at Zaribah arose to mind, and he recalled with particularity all
that singular person said with reference to the accent observable in his speech.
He also went over the description he himself had given the Prince of the house
or castle from which he had been taken in childhood. A woman had borne him
outdoors, under a blue sky, along a margin of white sand, an orchard on one
hand, the sea on the other. He remembered the report of the waves breaking on
the shore, the olive-green color of the trees in the orchard, and the
battlemented gate of the castle; whereupon the Prince said the description
reminded him of the eastern shore of Italy in the region of Brindisi. It was a
vague remark certainly; but now it made a deeper impression on the Emir than at
the moment of its utterance and pointed his attention to Brindisi. The going to
Italy, he argued, was really to get a warrant for the character he was to assume
in Constantinople; that is, to obtain some knowledge of the country, its
geography, political divisions, cities, rulers, and present conditions
generally, without which the slightest cross-examination by any of the well-
informed personages about the Emperor would shatter his pretensions in an
instant. Then it was he fell into a most unusual mood. Since the hour the
turbaned rovers captured him he had not been assailed by a desire to see or seek
his country and family. Who was his father? Was his mother living? Probably
nothing could better define the profundity of the system underlying the
organization of the Janissaries than that he had never asked those questions
with a genuine care to have them solved. What a suppression of the most ordinary
instincts of nature! How could it have been accomplished so completely? As a
circumstance, its tendency is to confirm the theory that men are creatures of
education and association.... Was his mother living? Did she remember him? Had
she wept for him? What sort of being was she? If living, how old would she be?
And he actually attempted a calculation. Calling himself twenty-six she might
not be over forty-five. That was not enough to dim her eyes or more than
slightly silver her hair; and as respects her heart, are not the affections of a
mother flowers for culling by Death alone? Such reflections never fail effect. A
tenderness of spirit is the first token of their presence; then memory and
imagination begin striving; the latter to bring the beloved object back, and the
former to surround it with sweetest circumstances. They wrought with Mirza as
with everybody else. The yearning they excited in him was a surprise; presently
he determined to act on the Prince of India's suggestion, and betake himself to
the eastern coast of Italy. The story of the sack of a castle was of a kind to
have wide circulation; at the same time this one was recent enough to be still
in the memory of persons living. Finding the place of its occurrence was the
difficulty. If in the vicinity of Brindisi--well, he would go and ask. The
yearning spoken of did not come alone; it had for companion, Conscience, as yet
in the background. There were vessels bound for Venice. One was taking in water,
after which it would sail for Otranto. It seemed a fleet craft, with a fair
crew, and a complement of stout rowers. Otranto was south of Brindisi a little
way, and the castle he wanted to hear of might have been situated between those
cities. Who could tell? Besides, as an Italian nobleman, to answer inquiry in
Constantinople, he would have to locate himself somewhere, and possibly the
coast in question might accommodate him with both a location and a title. The
result was he took passage to Otranto. While there he kept his role of
traveller, but was studious, and picked up a great fund of information bearing
upon the part awaiting him. He lived and dressed well, and affected religious
circles. It was the day when Italy was given over to the nobles--the day of
robbers, fighting, intrigues and usurpations--of free lances and bold banditti--
of government by the strong hand, of right determinable by might, of ensanguined
Guelphs and Ghibellines. Of these the Emir kept clear. By chance he fell in with
an old man of secondary rank in the city much given to learning, an habitue of a
library belonging to one of the monasteries. It came out ere long that the
venerable person was familiar with the coast from Otranto to Brindisi, and
beyond far as Polignano. "It was in my sturdier days," the veteran said, with a
dismal glance at his shrunken hands. "The people along the shore were much
harried by Moslem pirates. Landing from their galleys, the depredators burned
habitations, slew the men, and carried off such women as they thought would
fetch a price. They even assaulted castles. At last we were driven to the
employment of a defensive guard cooperative on land and water. I was a captain.
Our fights with the rovers were frequent and fierce. Neither side showed
quarter." The reminiscence stimulated Mirza to inquiry. He asked the old man if
he could mention a castle thus attacked. "Yes, there was one belonging to Count
Corti, a few leagues beyond Brindisi. The Count defended himself, but was
slain." "Had he a family?" "A wife and a boy child." "What became of them?" "By
good chance the Countess was in Brindisi attending a fete; she escaped, of
course. The boy, two or three years of age, was made prisoner, and never heard
of afterwards." A premonition seized Mirza. "Is the Countess living?" "Yes. She
never entirely recovered from the shock, but built a house near the site of the
castle, and clearing a room in the ruins, turned it into a chapel. Every morning
and evening she goes there, and prays for the soul of her husband, and the
return of her lost boy." "How long is it since the poor lady was so bereft?" The
narrator reflected, and replied: "Twenty-two or three years." "May the castle be
found?" "Yes." "Have you been to it?" "Many times." "How was it named?" "After
the Count--_Il Castillo di Corti_." "Tell me something of its site." "It is down
close by the sea. A stone wall separates its front enclosure from the beach.
Sometimes the foam of the waves is dashed upon the wall. Through a covered gate
one looks out, and all is water. Standing on the tower, all landward is orchard
and orchard--olive and almond trees intermixed. A great estate it was and is.
The Countess, it is understood, has a will executed; if the boy does not return
before her death, the Church is to be her legatee." There was more of the
conversation, covering a history of the Corti family, honorable as it was old--
the men famous warriors, the women famous beauties. Mirza dreamed through the
night of the Countess, and awoke with a vague consciousness that the wife of the
Pacha, the grace of whose care had been about him in childhood--a good woman,
gentle and tender--was after all but a representative of the mother who had
given him birth, just as on her part every mother is mercifully representative
of God. Under strong feeling he took boat for Brindisi. There he had no trouble
in confirming the statements of his Otranto acquaintance. The Countess was still
living, and the coast road northwardly would bring him to the ruins of her
castle. The journey did not exceed five leagues. What he might find at the
castle, how long he would stay, what do, were so uncertain--indeed everything in
the connection was so dependent upon conditions impossible of foresight, that he
resolved to set out on foot. To this course he was the more inclined by the
mildness of the weather, and the reputation of the region for freshness and
beauty. About noon he was fairly on the road. Persons whom he met--and they were
not all of the peasant class--seeing a traveller jaunty in plumed cap, light
blue camail, pointed buskins, and close-fitting hose the color of the camail,
sword at his side, and javelin in hand, stayed to observe him long as he was in
sight, never dreaming they were permitted to behold a favorite of one of the
bloody Mahounds of the East. Over hill and down shallow vales: through stone-
fenced lanes; now in the shade of old trees; now along a seashore partially
overflowed by languid waves, he went, lighter in step than heart, for he was in
the mood by no means uncommon, when the spirit is prophesying evil unto itself.
He was sensible of the feeling, and for shame would catch the javelin in the
middle and whirl it about him defensively until it sung like a spinning-wheel;
at times he stopped and, with his fingers in his mouth, whistled to a small bird
as if it were a hunting hawk high in air. Once, seeing a herd of goats around a
house thatched and half-hidden in vines, he asked for milk. A woman brought it
to him, with a slice of brown bread; and while he ate and drank, she stared at
him in respectful admiration; and when he paid her in gold, she said,
courtesying low: "A glad life to my Lord! I will pray the Madonna to make the
wish good." Poor creature! She had no idea she was blessing one in whose faith
the Prophet was nearer God than God's own Son. At length the road made an abrupt
turn to the right, bringing him to a long stretch of sandy beach. Nearly as he
could judge, it was time for the castle to appear, and he was anxious to make it
before sundown. Yet in the angle of the wood he saw a wayside box of stone
sheltering an image of the Virgin, with the Holy Child in its arms. Besides
being sculptured better than usual, the figures were covered with flowers in
wreath and bouquet. A dressed slab in front of the structure, evidently for the
accommodation of worshippers, invited him to rest, and he took the seat, and
looking up at the mother, she appeared to be looking at him. He continued his
gaze, and presently the face lost its stony appearance--stranger still, it
smiled. It was illusion, of course, but he arose startled, and moved on with
quickened step. The impression went with him. Why the smile? He did not believe
in images: much less did he believe in the Virgin, except as she was the subject
of a goodly story. And absorbed in the thought, he plodded on, leaving the sun
to go down unnoticed. Thereupon the shadows thickened in the woods at his left
hand, while the sound of the incoming waves at his right increased as silence
laid its velvet finger with a stronger compress on all other pulsations. Here
and there a star peeped timidly through the purpling sky--now it was dusk--a
little later, it would be night--and yet no castle! He pushed on more
vigorously; not that he was afraid--fear and the falcon of Mahommed had never
made acquaintance--but he began to think of a bed in the woods, and worse yet,
he wanted the fast-going daylight to help him decide if the castle when he came
to it were indeed the castle of his fathers. He had believed all along, if he
could see the pile once, his memory would revive and help him to recognition. At
last night fell, and there was darkness trebled on the land, and on the sea
darkness, except where ghostly lines of light stretched themselves along the
restless water. Should he go on?... Then he heard a bell--one soft tone near by
and silvery clear. He halted. Was it of the earth? A hush deeper of the sound--
and he was wondering if another illusion were not upon him, when again the bell!
"Oh!" he muttered, "a trick of the monks in Otranto! Some soul is passing." He
pressed forward, guided by the tolling. Suddenly the trees fell away, and the
road brought him to a stone wall heavily coped. On further, a blackened mass
arose in dim relief against the sky, with heavy merlons on its top. "It is the
embattled gate!" he exclaimed, to himself--"the embattled gate!--and here the
beach!--and, O Allah! the waves there are making the reports they used to!" The
bell now tolled with awful distinctness, filling him with unwonted chills--
tolled, as if to discourage his memory in its struggle to lift itself out of a
lapse apparently intended to be final as the grave--tolled solemnly, as if his
were the soul being rung into the next life. A rush of forebodings threatened
him with paralysis of will, and it was only by a strong exertion he overcame it,
and brought himself back to the situation, and the question, What next? Now
Mirza was not a man to forego a purpose lightly. Emotional, but not
superstitious, he tried the sword, if it were loose in the scabbard, and then,
advancing the point of his javelin, entered the darkened gallery of the gate.
Just as he emerged from it on the inner side, the bell tolled. "A Moslem doth
not well," he thought, silently repeating a saying of the _jadis_, "to accept a
Christian call to prayer; but," he answered in self-excuse, "I am not going to
prayer--I am seeking"--he stopped, for very oddly, the face of the Virgin in the
stone box back in the angle of the road presented itself to him, and still more
oddly, he felt firmer of purpose seeing again the smile on the face. Then he
finished the sentence aloud--"my mother _who is a Christian._"

There was a jar in the conclusion, and he went back to find it, and having found
it, he was surprised. Up to that moment, he had not thought of his mother a
Christian. How came the words in his mouth now? Who prompted them? And while he
was hastily pondering the effect upon her of the discovery that he himself was
an Islamite, the image in the box reoccurred to him, this time with the child in
its arms; and thereupon the mystery seemed to clear itself at once. "Mother and
mother!" he said. "What if my coming were the answer of one of them to the
other's prayer?" The idea affected him; his spirit softened; the heat of tears
sprang to his eyelids; and the effort he made to rise above the unmanliness
engaged him so he failed to see the other severer and more lasting struggle
inevitable if the Countess were indeed the being to whom he owed the highest
earthly obligations--the struggle between natural affection and honor, as the
latter lay coiled up in the ties binding him to Mahommed. The condition, be it
remarked, is ours; for from that last appearance of the image by the wayside--
from that instant, marking a new era in his life--often as the night and its
incidents recurred to him, he had never a doubt of his relationship to the
Countess. Indeed, not only was she thenceforward his mother, but all the ground
within the gate was his by natal right, and the castle was the very castle from
which he had been carried away, over the body of his heroic father--_he was the
Count Corti_! These observations will bring the reader to see more distinctly
the Emir's state after passing the gate. Of the surroundings, he beheld nothing
but shadows more or less dense and voluminous; the mournful murmuring of the
wind told him they belonged to trees and shrubbery in clumps. The road he was
on, although blurred, was serviceable as a guide, and he pursued it until
brought to a building so masked by night the details were invisible. Following
its upper line, relieved against the gray sky, he made out a broken front and
one tower massively battlemented. A pavement split the road in two; crossing it,
he came to an opening, choked with timbers and bars of iron; surmisably the
front portal at present in disuse. He needed no explanation of its condition.
Fire and battle were familiars of his. The bell tolled on. The sound, so passing
sweet elsewhere, seemed to issue from the yawning portal, leaving him to fancy
the interior a lumber of floors, galleries, and roofs in charred tumble down.
Mirza turned away presently, and took the left branch of the road; since he
could not get into the castle, he would go around it; and in doing so, he
borrowed from the distance traversed a conception of its immensity, as well as
of the importance the countship must have enjoyed in its palmy days. At length
he gained the rear of the great pile. The wood there was more open, and he was
pleased with the sight of lights apparently gleaming through windows, from which
he inferred a hamlet pitched on a broken site. Then he heard singing; and
listening, never had human voices seemed to him so impressively solemn. Were
they coming or going? Ere long a number of candles, very tall, and screened from
the wind by small lanterns of transparent paper, appeared on the summit of an
ascent; next moment the bearers of the candles were in view--boys bareheaded and
white frocked. As they began to descend the height, a bevy of friars succeeded
them, their round faces and tonsured crowns glistening in ruddy contrast with
their black habits. A choir of four singers, three men and one woman, followed
the monks. Then a linkman in half armor strode across the summit, lighting the
way for a figure, also in black, which at once claimed Mirza's gaze. As he
stared at the figure, the account given him by the old captain in Otranto
flashed upon his memory. The widow of the murdered count had cleared a room in
the castle, and fitted it up as a chapel, and every morning and evening she went
thither to pray for the soul of her husband and the return of her lost boy. The
words were alive with suggestions; but suggestions imply uncertainty; wherefore
they are not a reason for the absolute conviction with which the Emir now said
to himself:

"It is she--the Countess--my mother!" There must be in every heart a store of
prevision of which we are not aware--occasions bring it out with such sudden and
bewildering effect. Everything--hymn, tolling bell, lights, boys, friars,
procession--was accessory to that veiled, slow-marching figure. And in
habiliment, movement, air, with what telling force it impersonated sorrow! On
the other hand, how deep and consuming the sorrow itself must be! She--he beheld
only her--descended the height without looking up or around--a little stooped,
yet tall and of dignified carriage--not old nor yet young--a noble woman worthy
reverence. While he was making these comments, the procession reached the foot
of the ascent; then the boys and friars came between, and hid her from his view.
"O Allah! and thou his Prophet!" he exclaimed. "Am I not to see her face? Is she
not to know me?" Curiously the question had not presented itself before; neither
when he resolved to come, nor while on the way. To say truth, he had been all
the while intent on the one partial object--to see her. He had not anticipated
the awakening the sight might have upon his feelings. "Am I not to discover
myself to her? Is she never to know me?" he repeated. The lights in the hands of
the boys were beginning to gleam along a beaten road a short distance in front
of the agitated Emir conducting to the castle. He divined at once that the
Countess was coming to the chapel for the usual evening service, and that, by
advancing to the side of the road, he could get a near view of her as she
passed. He started forward impulsively, but after a few steps stopped, trembling
like a child imagining a ghost. Now our conception of the man forbids us
thinking him overcome by a trifle, whether of the air or in the flesh. A change
so extreme must have been the work of a revelation of quick and powerful
consequence--and it was, although the first mention may excite a smile. In the
gleam of mental lightning--we venture on the term for want of another more
descriptive--he had been reminded of the business which brought him to Italy.
Let us pause here, and see what the reminder means; if only because the debonair
Mirza, with whom we have been well pleased, is now to become another person in
name and character, commanding our sympathies as before, but for a very
different reason. This was what the lightning gave him to see, and not darkly:
If he discovered himself to the Countess, he must expose his history from the
night the rovers carried him away. True, the tale might be given generally,
leaving its romance to thrill the motherly heart, and exalt him the more; for to
whom are heroes always the greatest heroes? Unhappily steps in confession are
like links in a chain, one leads to another.... Could he, a Christian born, tell
her he was an apostate? Or if he told her, would it not be one more grief to the
many she was already breaking under--one, the most unendurable? And as to
himself, how could he more certainly provoke a forfeiture of her love?... She
would ask--if but to thank God for mercies--to what joyful accident his return
was owing? And then? Alas! with her kiss on his brow, could he stand silent?
More grievous yet, could he deceive her? If nothing is so murderous of self-
respect as falsehood, a new life begun with a lie needs no prophet to predict
its end. No, he must answer the truth. This conviction was the ghost which set
him trembling. An admission that he was a Moslem would wound her, yet the hope
of his conversion would remain--nay, the labor in making the hope good might
even renew her interest in life; but to tell her he was in Italy to assist in
the overthrow of a Christian Emperor for the exaltation of an infidel--God help
him! Was ever such a monster as he would then become in her eyes?... The
consequences of that disclosure, moreover, were not to the Countess and himself
merely. With a sweep of wing one's fancy is alone capable of, he was borne back
to the White Castle, and beheld Mahommed. When before did a Prince,
contemplating an achievement which was to ring the world, give trust with such
absoluteness of faith? Poor Mirza! The sea rolled indefinitely wide between the
White Castle and this one of his fathers; across it, nevertheless, he again
heard the words: "As thou art to be my other self, be it royally. Kings never
account to themselves." If they made betrayal horrible in thought, what would
the fact be?... Finally, last but not least of the reflections the lightning
laid bare, the Emir had been bred a soldier, and he loved war for itself and for
the glory it offered unlike every other glory. Was he to bid them both a long
farewell? Poor Mirza! A few paragraphs back allusion was made to a struggle
before him between natural affection on one hand and honor on the other. Perhaps
it was obscurely stated; if so, here it is amended, and stripped of conditions.
He has found his mother. She is coming down the road--there, behind the dancing
lights, behind the friars, she is coming to pray for him. Should he fly her
recognition or betray his confiding master? Room there may be to say the
alternatives were a judgment upon him, but who will deny him pity? ... There is
often a suffering, sometimes an agony, in indecision more wearing than disease,
deadlier than sword-cuts. The mournful pageant was now where its lights brought
out parts of the face of the smoke-stained building. With a loud clang a door
was thrown open, and a friar, in the black vestments usual in masses for the
dead, came out to receive the Countess. The interior behind him was dully
illuminated. A few minutes more, and the opportunity to see her face would be
lost. Still the Emir stood irresolute. Judge the fierceness of the conflict in
his breast! At last he moved forward. The acolytes, with their great candles of
yellow wax, were going by as he gained the edge of the road. They looked at him
wonderingly. The friars, in Dominican cassocks, stared at him also. Then the
choir took its turn. The linkman at sight of him stopped an instant, then
marched on. The Emir really beheld none of them; his eyes and thoughts were in
waiting; and now--how his heart beat!--how wistfully he gazed!--the Countess was
before him, not three yards away. Her garments, as said, were all black. A thick
veil enveloped her head; upon her breast her crossed hands shone ivory white.
Two or three times the right hand, in signing the cross, uncovered a ring upon
the left--the wedding ring probably. Her bearing was of a person not so old as
persecuted by an engrossing anguish. She did not once raise her face. The Emir's
heart was full of prayer. "O Allah! It is my mother! If I may not speak to her,
or kiss her feet--if I may not call her mother--if I may not say, mother,
mother, behold, I am thy son come back--still, as thou art the Most Merciful!
let me see her face, and suffer her to see mine--once, O Allah! once, if
nevermore!" But the face remained covered--and so she passed, but in passing she
prayed. Though the voice was low, lie heard these words: "Oh, sweet Mother! By
the Blessed Son of thy love and passion, remember mine, I beseech thee. Be with
him, and bring him to me quickly. Miserable woman that I am!" The world, and she
with it, swam in the tears he no longer tried to stay. Stretching his arms
toward her, he fell upon his knees, then upon his face; and that the face was in
the dust, he never minded. When he looked up, she was gone on, the last of the
procession. And he knew she had not seen him. He followed after. Everybody stood
aside to let her enter the door first. The friar received her; she went in, and
directly the linkman stood alone outside. "Stay!" said the linkman,
peremptorily. "Who art thou?" Thus rudely challenged, the Emir awoke from his
daze--awoke with all his faculties clear. "A gentleman of Otranto," he replied.
"What is thy pleasure?" "Admit me to the chapel." "Thou art a stranger, and the
service is private. Or hast thou been invited?" "No." "Thou canst not enter."
Again the world dropped into darkness before Mirza; but this time it was from
anger. The linkman never suspected his peril. Fortunately for him, the voice of
the female chorister issued from the doorway in tremulous melody. Mirza
listened, and became tranquillized. The voice sank next into a sweet unearthly
pleading, and completely subdued, he began arguing with himself.... She had not
seen him while he was in the dust at her side, and now this repulse at the door
--how were they to be taken except as expressions of the will of Heaven?...
There was plenty of time--better go away, and return--perhaps to-morrow. He was
not prepared to prove his identity, if it were questioned.... There would be a
scene, and he shrank from it.... Yes, better retire now.... And he turned to go.
Not six steps away, the Countess reappeared to his excited mind, exactly as she
had passed praying for him--reappeared--

... "like the painting of a sorrow." A revulsion of feeling seized him--he
halted. Oh, the years she had mourned for him! Her love was deep as the sea!
Tears again--and without thought of what he did--all aimlessly--he returned to
the door. "This castle was sacked and burned by pirates, was it not?" he asked
the linkman. "Yes." "They slew the Count Corti?" "Yes." "And carried off his
son?" "Yes." "Had he other children?" "No." "What was the name of the boy?"
"Ugo." "Well--in thy ear now--thou didst not well in shutting me out--_I am that
Ugo._"

Thereupon the Emir walked resolutely away. A cry, shrill and broken, overtook
him, issuing apparently from the door of the chapel--a second time he heard it,
more a moan than a shriek--and thinking the linkman had given the alarm, he
quickened his pace to a run, and was soon out on the beach. The breath of the
sea was pleasant and assuring, and falling into a walk, he turned his face
toward Brindisi. But the cry pursued him. He imagined the scene in the chapel--
the distress of the Countess--the breaking up of the service--the hurry of
question--a consultation, and possibly search for him. Every person in the
procession but the Countess had seen him; so the only open point in the affair
was the one of directest interest to her: Was it her son? Undoubtedly the
suffering lady would not rest until investigation was exhausted. Failing to find
the stranger about the castle, horsemen might be sent out on the road. There is
terrible energy in mother-love. These reflections stimulated the Emir to haste.
Sometimes he even ran; only at the shrine of the Virgin and Child in the angle
of the road did he halt. There he cast himself upon the friendly slab to recover
breath. All this of course indicated a preference for Mahommed. And now he came
to a decision. He would proceed with the duty assigned him by the young master;
then, at the end, he would come back, and assert himself in his native land. He
sat on the slab an hour or more. At intervals the outcry, which he doubted not
was his mother's, rang in his ears, and every time he heard it, conscience
attacked him with its whip of countless stings. Why subject her to more misery?
For what other outcome could there be to the ceaseless contention of fears and
hopes now hers? Oh, if she had only seen him when he was so near her in the
road! That she did not, was the will of Allah, and the fatalistic Mohammedan
teaching brought him a measure of comfort. In further sooth, he had found a
location and a title. Thenceforward, and not fictitiously, he was the _Count
Corti_; and so entitling himself, he determined to make Brindisi, and take ship
for Genoa or Venice in the morning before a messenger could arrive from the
castle. As he arose from the slab, a bird in housel for the night flew out of
the box. Its small cheep reminded him of the smile he had fancied on the face of
the Madonna, and how, a little later, the smile had, with such timely suggestion
of approval, woven itself into his thought of the Countess. He looked up at the
face again; but the night was over it like a veil, and he went nearer, and laid
his hand softly on the Child. That which followed was not a miracle; only a
consequence of the wisdom which permits the enshrinement of a saintly woman and
Holy Child as witnesses of the Divine Goodness to humanity. He raised himself
higher in the box, and pushing aside a heap of faded floral offerings, kissed
the foot of the taller image, saying: "Thus would I have done to my mother." And
when he had climbed down, and was in the road, it seemed some one answered him:
"Go thy way! God and Allah are the same." We may now urge the narrative. From
Brindisi the Emir sailed to Venice. Two weeks in "the glorious city in the sea"
informed him of it thoroughly. While there, he found, on the "ways" of an
Adriatic builder, the galley in which we have seen him at anchor in the Golden
Horn. Leaving an order for the employment of a sailing-master and crew when the
vessel was complete, he departed next for Rome. At Padua he procured the harness
of a man-at-arms of the period, and recruited a company of _condottieri_--
mercenary soldiers of every nationality. With all his sacerdotal authority,
Nicholas V., the Holy Father, was sorely tried in keeping his States. The
freebooters who unctuously kissed his hand to-day, did not scruple, if
opportunity favored, to plunder one of his towns tomorrow. It befell that Count
Corti--so the Emir styled himself--found a Papal castle beleaguered by
marauders, whom he dispersed, slaying their chief with his own hand. Nicholas,
in public audience, asked him to name the reward he preferred. "Knighthood at
thy hands, first of all things," was the reply. The Holy Father took a sword
from one of his officers, and gave him the _accolade_. "What next, my son?" "I
am tired fighting men who ought to be Christians. Give me, I pray, thy
commission to make war upon the Barbary pirates who infest the seas." This was
granted him. "What next?" "Nothing, Holy Father, but thy blessing, and a
certificate in good form, and under seal, of these favors thou hast done me."
The certificate and the blessing were also granted. The Count then dismissed his
lances, and, hastening to Naples, embarked for Venice. There he supplied himself
with suits of the finest Milanese armor he could obtain, and a wardrobe
consisting of costumes such as were in vogue with the gay gallants along the
Grand Canal. Crossing to Tripoli, he boarded a Moorish merchantman, and made
prisoners of the crew and rowers. The prize he gave to his Christian sailors,
and sent them home. Summoning his prisoners on deck, he addressed them in
Arabic, offering them high pay if they would serve him, and they gratefully
accepted his terms. The Count then directed his prow to what is now Aleppo, with
the purpose of procuring Arab horses; and having purchased five of the purest
blood, he made sail for Constantinople. We shall now, for a time, permit the
title _Emir_ to lapse. The knight we have seen on the deck of the new arrival in
the Golden Horn viewing with melancholy interest the cities on either side of
the fairest harbor on earth, is in easy English speech, _Count Corti_, the
Italian. Thus far the Count had been successful in his extraordinary mission,
yet he was not happy. He had made three discoveries during his journey--his
mother, his country, his religion. Ordinarily these relations--if we may so call
them--furnish men their greatest sum of contentment; sadly for him, however, he
had made a fourth finding, of itself sufficient to dash all the others--in
briefest term, he was not in condition to acknowledge either of them. Unable to
still the cry heard while retiring from his father's ruined castle, he
surrendered himself more and more to the wisdom brought away from the box of the
Madonna and Child in the angle of the road to Brindisi--_God and Allah are the
same._ Conscience and a growing sense of misappropriated life were making Count
Corti a very different person from the light-hearted Emir of Mahommed. CHAPTER V

THE PRINCESS IRENE IN TOWN

An oblong room divided in the middle crosswise by two fluted pillars of pink-
stained marble, light, delicately capped, and very graceful--between the pillars
a segmental arch--between the walls and the pillars square ties;--the wall above
the pillars elaborately scrolled;--three curtains of woollen stuff uniformly
Tyrian dyed filling the open places--the central curtain drawn to the pillars,
and held there by silken ropes richly tasselled--the side curtains dropped;--a
skylight for each division of the room, and under each skylight an ample brazier
dispensing a comfortable degree of warmth;--floor laid in pink and saffron
tiles;--chairs with and without arms, some upholstered, all quaintly carved--to
each chair a rug harmoniously colored;--massive tables of carven wood, the tops
of burnished copper inlaid with blocks of jasper, mostly red and yellow--on the
tables murrhine pitchers vase-shaped, with crystal drinking goblets about
them;--the skylights conical and of clear glass;--the walls panelled, a picture
in every panel, and the raised margins and the whole space outside done in
arabesque of studied involution;--doors opposite each other and bare;--such was
the reception-room in the town-house of the Princess Irene arranged for the
winter. On an armless chair in one of the divisions of the beautiful room, the
Princess sat, slightly bending over a piece of embroidery stretched upon a
frame. What with the accessories about her--the chair, a small table at her
right covered with the bright materials in use, the slanted frame, and a
flexible lion's skin under her feet--she was a picture once seen never
forgotten. The wonderful setting of the head and neck upon the Phidian shoulders
was admirably complemented by the long arms, bare, round, and of the whiteness
of an almond kernel freshly broken, the hands, blue-veined and dimpled, and the
fingers, tapering, pliant, nimble, rapid, each seemingly possessed of a separate
intelligence. To the left of the Princess, a little removed, Lael half reclined
against a heap of cushions, pale, languid, and not wholly recovered from the
effects of the abduction by Demedes, the terrible doom which had overtaken her
father, and the disappearance of the Prince of India, the latter unaccountable
except upon the hypothesis of death in the great fire. The dying prayer of the
son of Jahdai had not failed with the Princess Irene. Receiving the unfortunate
girl from Sergius the day after the rescue from the cistern, she accepted the
guardianship, and from that hour watched and tended her with maternal
solicitude. The other division of the room was occupied by attendants. They were
visible through the opening left by the drawn curtain; yet it is not to be
supposed they were under surveillance; on the contrary, their presence in the
house was purely voluntary. They read, sang, accepted tasks in embroidery from
their mistress, accompanied her abroad, loved her--in a word, their service was
in every respect compatible with high rank, and in return they derived a certain
education from her. For by universal acknowledgment she was queen and arbiter in
the social world of Byzantium; in manner the mirror, in taste and fashion its
very form. Indeed, she was the subject of but one objection--her persistent
protest against the encumbrance of a veil. With all her grave meditation, she
never lectured her attendants, knowing probably that sermons in example are more
impressive than sermons in words. In illustration of the freedom they enjoyed in
her presence and hearing, one of them, behind the curtain, touched a stringed
instrument--a cithern--and followed the prelude with a song of Anacreontic vein.
THE GOLDEN NOON. If my life were but a day--       One morn, one night,     With
a golden noon for play,       And I, of right,     Could say what I would do
With it--what would I do? Penance to me--e'en the stake,       And late or
soon!--     Yet would Love remain to make       That golden noon     Delightful
--I would do--     Ah, Love, what would I do? And when the singer ceased there
was a merry round of applause. The ripple thus awakened had scarcely subsided,
when the ancient Lysander opened one of the doors, and, after ringing the tiled
floor with the butt of his javelin, and bowing statelywise, announced Sergius.
Taking a nod from the Princess, he withdrew to give the visitor place. Sergius
went first to Irene, and silently kissed her hand; then, leaving her to resume
work, he drew a chair to Lael's side. Under his respectful manner there was an
ease which only an assurance of welcome could have brought him. This is not to
be taken in the sense of familiarity; if he ever indulged that vulgarism--
something quite out of character with him--it was not in his intercourse with
the Princess. She did not require formality; she simply received courtesy from
everybody, even the Emperor, as a natural tribute. At the same time, Sergius was
nearer in her regard than any other person, for special reasons. We have seen
the sympathetic understanding between the two in the matter of religion. We have
seen, also, why she viewed him as a protege. Never had one presented himself to
her so gentle and unconventional never one knowing so little of the world. With
life all before him, with its ways to learn, she saw he required an adviser
through a period of tutelage, and assumed the relation partly through a sense of
duty, partly from reverent recollection of Father Hilarion. These were arguments
sound in themselves; but two others had recently offered. In the first place she
was aware of the love which had arisen between the monk and Lael. She had not
striven to spy it out. Like children, they had affected no disguise of their
feeling; and while disallowing the passion a place in her own breast, she did
not deprecate or seek to smother it in others. Far from that, in these, her
wards, so to speak, it was with her an affair of permissive interest. They were
so lovable, it seemed an order of nature they should love each other. Next, the
world was dealing harshly with Sergius; and though he strove manfully to hide
the fact, she saw he was suffering. He deserved well, she thought, for his
rescue of Lael, and for the opportunity given the Emperor to break up the
impiety founded by Demedes. Unhappily her opinion was not subscribed in certain
quarters. The powerful Brotherhood of the St. James' amongst others was in an
extreme state of exasperation with him. They insisted he could have achieved the
rescue without the death of the Greek. They went so far as to accuse him of a
double murder--of the son first, then of the father. A terrible indictment! And
they were bold and open-mouthed. Out of respect for the Emperor, who was equally
outspoken in commendation of Sergius, they had not proceeded to the point of
expulsion. The young man was still of the Brotherhood; nevertheless he did not
venture to exercise any of the privileges of a member. His cell was vacant. The
five services of the day were held in the chapel without him. In short, the
Brotherhood were in wait for an opportunity to visit him with their vengeance.
In hope of a favorable turn in the situation, he wore the habit of the Order,
but it was his only outward sign of fraternity. Without employment, miserable,
he found lodgment in the residence of the Patriarch, and what time he was not
studying, he haunted the old churches of the city, Sancta Sophia in especial,
and spent many hours a dreaming voyager on the Bosphorus. The glad look which
shone in the eyes of the invalid when Sergius took seat by her was very
noticeable; and when she reached him her hand, the kiss he left upon it was of
itself a declaration of tender feeling. "I hope my little friend is better, to-
day," he said, gravely. "Yes, much better. The Princess says I may go out soon--
the first real spring day." "That is good news. I wish I could hurry the spring.
I have everything ready to take you on the water--a perfect boat, and two master
rowers. Yesterday they carried me to the Black Sea and back, stopping for a
lunch of bread and figs at the foot of the Giants' Mountain. They boast they can
repeat the trip often as there are days in the week." "Did you stop at the White
Castle?" she asked, with a smile. "No. Our noble Princess was not with me; and
in her absence, I feared the Governor might forget to be polite as formerly."
The gracious lady, listening, bent lower over the frame before her. She knew so
much more of the Governor than Lael did! But Lael then inquired:

"Where have you been to-day?" "Well, my little friend, let me see if I can
interest you.... This morning I awoke betimes, and set myself to study. Oh,
those chapters of John--the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth. There is no
need of religious knowledge beyond them. Of the many things they make clear,
this is the clearest--the joys of eternal life lie in the saying of the Lord, 'I
am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life; no man cometh unto the Father but by
Me.' ... After my hours of study, I went to see an old church over in the low
garden grounds beyond the aqueduct. Before I could get through the doorway, a
flock of goats had to pass out. I will tell His Serenity what I beheld. Better
the wreck be cleaned from the face of the earth than desecrated. Holy ground
once, holy ground forever." "Where is the Church?" the Princess inquired. "In
the low grounds between the aqueduct, and the gates of St. Romain and
Adrianople." "It belongs to one of the Brotherhoods. They have farming right in
the soil." "I am sorry to hear it." As she turned to her work again, he went on
with his account of himself. "I had then two hours and more till noon, and was
at loss what to do. Finally I decided to go to the Port of Blacherne--a long
walk, but not too long, considering my motive.... Princess, have you heard of
the Italian newly arrived?" "What of him, pray?" "He is the talk of the city,
and if the half told of him be true, we must needs wonder. He travels in his own
ship. Merchants have that habit, but he is not a merchant. Kings do so, but he
is not a king. He came in saluting with a gun, in style becoming a great
admiral; but if he is an admiral, his nationality is a secret. He also flies an
unknown flag. They report him further as standing much on his deck in a suit of
armor glistening like silver. And what is he? Mouth speaketh unto mouth, with no
one to answer. They go then to his ship, pronouncing it the most perfect thing
of the kind ever seen in the harbor. Those who have rowed around it say the
sailors are not white men, but dark-faced creatures in turbans and black beards,
un-Christian and ugly-looking. Fishermen and fruiterers have been permitted on
deck--nobody else--and they, returning alive, say the rowers, of whom they
caught glimpses, are blacker than the sailors. They also overheard strange
noises below--voices not human." The countenance of the Princess during this
recital gradually changed; she seemed disposed to laugh at the exaggerations of
the populace. "So much for town-talk," Sergius continued. "To get sight of the
ship, and of the mysterious magnate, I walked across the city to the Port of
Blacherne, and was well rewarded. I found the ship drawn in to the quay, and the
work of unloading her in progress. Parties of porters were attacking heaps of
the cargo already on the landing. Where they were taking the goods I could not
learn. I saw five horses lifted out of the hold, and led ashore over a bridge
dropped from the vessel's side. Such horses I never before beheld. Two were
grays, two bays, and one chestnut-colored. They looked at the sun with wide-open
unwinking eyes; they inhaled the air as it were something to drink; their coats
shone like silk; their manes were soft like the hair of children; their tails
flared out in the breeze like flags; and everybody exclaimed: 'Arabs, Arabs!'
There was a groom for each horse--tall men, lean, dust-hued, turbaned, and in
black gowns. At sight of the animals, an old Persian who, from his appearance,
might have been grandfather of the grooms, begged permission--I could not
understand the tongue he used--put his arms around the necks of the animals, and
kissed them between the eyes, his own full of tears the while. I suppose they
reminded him of his own country.... Then two officers from the palace,
representatives doubtless of the Emperor, rode out of the gate in armor, and
immediately the stranger issued from his cabin, and came ashore. I confess I
lost interest in the horses, although he went to them and scanned them over,
lifting their feet and tapping their hoofs with the handle of a dagger. By that
time the two officers were dismounted; and approaching with great ceremony, they
notified him they had been sent by His Majesty to receive and conduct him to
assigned quarters. He replied to them in excellent Greek, acknowledging His
Majesty's graciousness, and the pleasure he would have in their escort. From the
cabin, two of his men brought a complete equipment, and placed it on the
chestnut steed. The furniture was all sheen of satin and gold. Another attendant
brought his sword and shield; and after the sword was buckled around him, and
the shield at his back, he took hold of the saddle with both hands, and swung
himself into the seat with an ease remarkably in contrast with the action of his
Greek conductors, who, in mounting, were compelled to make use of their
stirrups. The cavalcade then passed the gate into the city." "You saw him
closely?" Lael asked. "To get to his horse, he passed near me as I am to you, my
little friend." "What did he wear?" "Oh, he was in armor. A cap of blue steel,
with a silver spike on the crown--neck and shoulders covered with a hood of mail
--body in a shirt of mail, a bead of silver in each link--limbs to the knees in
mail. From the knees down there were splints of steel inlaid with silver; his
shoes were of steel, and on the heels long golden spurs. The hood was clasped
under the chin, leaving the face exposed--a handsome face, eyes black and
bright, complexion olive, though slightly bloodless, expression pleasant." "How
old is he?" "Twenty-six or seven. Altogether he reminded me of what I have heard
of the warriors who used to go crusading." "What following had he?" This was
from the Princess. "I can only speak of what I saw--of the keepers of the
horses, and of the other men, whom, in my unfamiliarity with military fashions,
I will call equerry, armorer, and squire or page. What accounting is to be made
of the ship's company, I leave, O Princess, to your better knowledge." "My
inquiry was of his personal suite." "Then I cannot give you a better answer; but
if I may say so much, the most unusual thing observable in his followers was,
they were all Orientals--not one of them had a Christian appearance." "Well"--
and the Princess laid her needle down for the first time--"I see how easily a
misunderstanding of the stranger may get abroad. Let me tell what I know of
him.... Directly he arrived, he despatched a letter to His Majesty, giving an
account of himself. He is a soldier by profession, and a Christian; has spent
much time in the Holy Land, where he acquired several Eastern languages;
obtained permission from the Pontiff Nicholas to make war on the African
pirates; manned his galley with captives; and, not wishing to return to his
native land and engage in the baronial wars which prevail there at present, he
offered his services to His Majesty. He is an Italian nobleman, entitled _Count
Corti,_ and submitted to His Majesty a certificate, under the hand and seal of
the Holy Father, showing that the Holy Father knighted him, and authorized his
crusade against the infidels. The preference for a following composed of
Orientals is singular; but after all, it is only a matter of taste. The day may
come, dear Sergius, when the Christian world will disapprove his method of
getting title to servants; but it is not here now.... If further discussion of
the Count takes place in your presence, you are at liberty to tell what I tell
you. At Blacherne yesterday I had the particulars, together with the other
circumstance, that the Emperor gladly accepted the Italian's overture, and
assigned him quarters in the Palace of Julian, with leave to moor his galley in
the port there. Few noble foreigners have sought our Empire bringing better
recommendations." The fair lady then took up her needle, and was resuming work,
when Lysander entered, and, after thumping the floor, announced: "Three
o'clock." The Princess silently arose, and passed out of the room; at the same
time there was a commotion behind the curtain, and presently the other apartment
was vacated. Sergius lingered a moment. "Tell me now of yourself," Lael said,
giving him her hand. He kissed the hand fondly, and replied: "The clouds still
hang low and dark over me; but my faith is not shaken; they will blow away; and
in the meantime, dear little friend, the world is not all cheerless--you love
me." "Yes, I love you," she said, with childish simplicity. "The Brotherhood has
elected a new Hegumen," he continued. "A good man, I hope." "The violence with
which he denounced me was the chief argument in his favor. But God is good. The
Emperor, the Patriarch, and the Princess Irene remain steadfast. Against them
the Hegumen will be slow in proceeding to my expulsion. I am not afraid. I will
go on doing what I think right. Time and patience are good angels to the
unjustly accused. But that any one should hold it a crime to have rescued you--O
little friend, dear soul! See the live coal which does not cease burning!" "And
Nilo?" "He wants nothing in the way of comforts." "I will go see the poor man
the first thing when I get out." "His cell in the Cynegion is well furnished.
The officer in charge has orders direct from the Emperor to see that he suffers
no harm. I saw him day before yesterday. He does not know why he is a prisoner,
but behaves quietly. I took him a supply of tools, and he passes the time making
things in use in his country, mostly implements of war and hunting. The walls of
his cell are hung with bows, arrows and lances of such curious form that there
is always quite a throng to see them. He actually divides honor with Tamerlane,
the king of the lions." "It should be a very noble lion, for that." Sergius,
seeing her humor, went on: "You say truly, little friend. He has in hand a net
of strong thread and thousands of meshes already. 'What is it for?' I asked. In
his pantomimic way he gave me to understand: 'In my country we hunt lions with
it.' 'How?' said I. And he showed me two balls of lead, one in each corner of
the net. Taking the balls in his hands: 'Now we are in front of the game--now it
springs at us--up they go this way.' He gave the balls a peculiar toss which
sent them up and forward on separating lines. The woven threads spread out in
the air like a yellow mist, and I could see the result--the brute caught in the
meshes, and entangled. Then the brave fellow proceeded with his pantomime. He
threw himself to one side out of the way of the leap--drew a sword, and stabbed
and stabbed--and the triumph in his face told me plainly enough. 'There--he is
dead!' Just now he is engaged on another work scarcely less interesting to him.
A dealer in ivory sent him an elephant's tusk, and he is covering it with the
story of a campaign. You see the warriors setting out on the march--in another
picture they are in battle--a cloud of arrows in flight--shields on arm--bows
bent--and a forest of spears. From the large end he is working down toward the
point. The finish will be a victory, and a return with captives and plunder
immeasurable.... He is well cared for; yet he keeps asking me about his master
the Prince of India. Where is he? When will he come? When he turns to that
subject I do not need words from him. His soul gets into his eyes. I tell him
the Prince is dead. He shakes his head: 'No, no!' and sweeping a circle in the
air, he brings his hands to his breast, as to say: 'No, he is travelling--he
will come back for me.'" Sergius had become so intent upon the description that
he lost sight of his hearer; but now a sob recalled him. Bending lower over the
hand, he caressed it more assiduously than ever, afraid to look into her face.
When at length the sobbing ceased, he arose and said, shamefacedly:

"O dear little friend, you forgive me, do you not?" From his manner one would
have thought he had committed an offence far out of the pale of condonement.
"Poor Sergius," she said. "It is for me to think of you, not you of me." He
tried to look cheerful. "It was stupid in me. I will be more careful. Your
pardon is a sweet gift to take away.... The Princess is going to Sancta Sophia,
and she may want me. To-morrow--until to-morrow--good-by." This time he stooped,
and kissed her on the forehead; next moment she was alone. CHAPTER VI

COUNT CORTI IN SANCTA SOPHIA

The Palace of Julian arose the chief embellishment of a large square enclosure
on the sea front southeast of the landmark at present called the Burnt Column,
and, like other imperial properties of the kind, it was an aggregation of
buildings irregular in form and style, and more or less ornate and imposing. A
garden stretched around it. The founder, wanting private harborage for his
galleys and swarm of lesser boats, dug a basin just inside the city wall, and
flooded it with pure Marmoran water; then, for ingress and egress at his
sovereign will, he slashed the wall, and of the breach made the _Port of
Julian_. [Footnote: Only a shallow depression in the ground, faintly
perpetuating the outlines of the harbor, now marks the site of this royal
residence.] Count Corti found the Palace well preserved in and out. He had not
purposed hiding himself, yet it was desirable to keep his followers apart much
as possible; and for that a situation more to his wish could scarcely have been
chosen in the capital. Issuing from the front door, a minute's walk through a
section of the garden brought him to a stairway defended on both sides with
massive balustrading. The flight ended in a spacious paved landing; whence,
looking back and up, he could see two immense columnar pedestals surmounted by
statues, while forward extended the basin, a sheet of water on which, white and
light as a gull, his galley rested. He had but to call the watchman on its deck,
and a small boat would come to him in a trice. He congratulated himself upon the
lodgement. The portion of the Palace assigned him was in the south end; and,
although he enlisted a number of skilful upholsterers, a week and more was
industriously taken with interior arrangements for himself, and in providing for
the comfort and well-being of his horses; for it is to be said in passing, he
had caught enough of the spirit of the nomadic Turk to rate the courser which
was to bear him possibly through foughten fields amongst the first in his
affections. In this preparation, keeping the scheme to which his master had
devoted him ever present, he required no teaching to point out the policy of
giving his establishment an air of permanence as well as splendor. Occupied as
he was, he had nevertheless snatched time to look in upon the Hippodrome, and
walk once around the Bucoleon and Sancta Sophia. From a high pavilion
overhanging his quarters, he had surveyed the stretches of city in the west and
southwest, sensible of a lively desire to become intimately acquainted with the
bizarre panorama of hills behind hills, so wonderfully house and church crowned.
To say truth, however, the Count was anxious to hear from the Sultan before
beginning a career. The man who was to be sent to him might appear any hour,
making it advisable to keep close home. He had a report of the journey to Italy,
and of succeeding events, including his arrival at Constantinople, ready
draughted, and was impatient to forward it. A word of approval from Mahommed
would be to him like a new spirit given. He counted upon it as a cure for his
melancholia. Viewing the galley one day, he looked across the basin to where the
guard of the Port was being changed, and was struck with the foreign air of the
officer of the relief. This, it happened, was singularly pertinent to a problem
which had been disturbing his active mind--how he could most safely keep in
communication with Mahommed, or, more particularly, how the Sultan's messenger
could come with the most freedom and go with the least hindrance. A solution now
presented itself. If the Emperor intrusted the guardianship of the gate to one
foreigner, why not to another? In other words, why not have the duty committed
to himself and his people? Not improbably the charge might be proposed to him;
he would wait awhile, and see; if, however, he had to formally request it, could
anything be more plausibly suggestive than the relation between the captaincy of
that Port and residence in the Palace of Julian? The idea was too natural to be
refused; if granted, he was master of the situation. It would be like holding
the keys of the city. He could send out and admit as need demanded; and then, if
flight became imperative, behold a line of retreat! Here was his galley--yonder
the way out. While he pondered the matter, a servant brought him notice of an
officer from Blacherne in waiting. Responding immediately, he found our ancient
friend the Dean in the reception room, bringing the announcement that His
Majesty the Emperor had appointed audience for him next day at noon; or, if the
hour was not entirely convenient, would the Count be pleased to designate
another? His Majesty was aware of the attention needful to a satisfactory
settlement in strange quarters, and had not interrupted him earlier; for which
he prayed pardon. The Count accepted the time set; after which he conducted his
visitor through his apartments, omitting none of them; from the kitchen he even
carried him to the stable, whence he had the horses brought one by one.
Hospitality and confidence could go no further, and he was amply rewarded. The
important functionary was pleased with all he saw, and with nothing more than
Corti himself. There could not be a doubt of the friendliness of the report he
would take back to Blacherne. In short, the Count's training in a court
dominated by suspicion to a greater degree even than the court in Constantinople
was drawn upon most successfully. A glass of wine at parting redolent with the
perfume of the richest Italian vintage fixed the new-comer's standing in the
Dean's heart. If there had been the least insufficiency in the emblazoned
certificate of the Holy Father, here was a swift witness in confirmation. The
day was destined to be eventful to the Count. While he was entertaining the
Dean, the men on the deck of the galley, unused to Byzantine customs, were
startled by a cry, long, swelling, then mournfully decadent. Glancing in the
direction from which it came, they saw a black boat sweeping through the water-
way of the Port. A man of dubious complexion, tall and lithe, his scant garments
originally white, now stiff with dirt of many hues, a ragged red head-cloth illy
confining his coarse black hair, stood in the bow shouting, and holding up a
wooden tray covered with fish. The sentinel to whom he thus offered the stock
shook his head, but allowed him to pass. At the galley's side there was an
interchange of stares between the sailors and the fishermen--such the tenants of
the black craft were--leaving it doubtful which side was most astonished.
Straightway the fellow in the bow opened conversation, trying several tongues,
till finally he essayed the Arabic. "Who are you?" "Sailors." "Where from?"
"Tripoli." "Children of the Prophet?" "We believe in Allah and the Last Day, and
observe prayer, and pay the appointed alms, and dread none but Allah; we are
among the rightly guided." [Footnote: Koran, IX. 18.] "Blessed be Allah! May his
name be exalted here and everywhere!" the fisherman returned; adding
immediately: "Whom serve you?" "A _Scherif_ from Italy." "How is he called?"
"The Count." "Where is he?" "In the Palace yonder." "A Christian?" "A Christian
with an Eastern tongue; and he knows the hours of prayer, and observes them."
"Does he reside here?" "He is Lord of the Palace." "When did he arrive?" "Since
the moon fulled." "Does he want fish?" The men on the ship laughed. "Go ask
him." "That is his landing there?" "Yes." "All men who live down by the sea eat
fish--when they can get them," the dealer said, solemnly. Turning then to his
rowers, he bade them: "Forward to the landing." There he stepped out, dextrously
balanced the tray on his head, ascended the stairs, and in front of the great
house went persistently from door to door until he came to that of the Count.
"Fish?" he asked the man who answered his knock. "I will see." The doorkeeper
returned shortly, and said, "No." "Are you a Moslem?" the fisherman inquired.
"Yes. Blessed be Allah for the right understanding!" "So am I. Now let me see
the master. I want to furnish him with fish for the season." "He is engaged." "I
will wait for him. Tell him my catch is this morning's--red mullets and choice
cuts from a royal sword-fish that leaped ten feet in the air with the spear in
his back." Thereupon he deposited the tray, and took seat by it, much as to say,
Time is of no consequence to me. Ere long the Count appeared with the Dean. He
glanced at the tray, then at the fisherman--to the latter he gave a second look.
"What beautiful fish!" he said, to the Dean. "Yes, yes--there are no fish
pastures like those of our Bosphorus." "How do you call this kind?" "Mullets--
red mullets. The old Romans used to fatten them in tanks." "I thought I had seen
their like on our Italian coasts. How do you prepare them for the table?" "We
fry them, Count, in olive oil--pure oil." All this time Corti was studying the
fisherman. "What meal, pray, will fashion allow them to me dished?" he went on.
"For breakfast especially; though when you come to dine with His Majesty do not
be surprised to see them early in course." "Pardon the detention, my Lord--I
will make trial of these in the morning." Then to the fisherman the Count said,
carelessly: "Keep thy place until I return." Corti saw the Dean out of the
eastern gate of the enclosure, and returned. "What, still here!" he said, to the
dealer. "Well, go with the doorkeeper to the kitchen. The cook will take what he
needs for to-morrow." Speaking to the doorkeeper then: "Bring the man to me. I
am fond of fishing, and should like to talk with him about his methods. Sometime
he may be willing to take me with him." By and by the monger was shown into the
Count's room, where there was a table, with books and writing material--a corner
room full lighted by windows in the south and east. When they were alone, the
two gazed at each other. "Ali, son of Abed-din!" said the Count. "Is it thou?"
"O Emir! All of me that is not fish is the Ali thou hast named." "God is great!"
the first exclaimed. "Blessed be God!" the other answered. They were
acquaintances of long standing. Then Ali took the red rag from his head, and
from its folds produced a strip of fine parchment with writing on it impervious
to water. "Behold, Emir! It is for thee." The Count received the scrip and read:

"This is he I promised to send. He has money for thee. Thou mayst trust him.
Tell me this time of thyself first; then of her; but always after of her first.
My soul is scorching with impatience." There was no date to the screed nor was
it signed; yet the Count put it to his forehead and lips. He knew the writing as
he knew his own hand. "O Ali!" he said, his eyes aglow. "Hereafter thou shalt be
Ali the Faithful, son of Abed-din the Faithful." Ali replied with a rueful look:
"It is well. What a time I have had waiting for you! Much I fear my bones will
never void the damps blown into them by the winter winds, and I perched on the
cross-sticks of a floating _dallyan_.... I have money for you, O Emir! and the
keeping it has given me care more than enough to turn another man older than his
mother. I will bring it to-morrow; after which I shall say twenty prayers to the
Prophet--blessed be his name!--where now I say one." "No, not to-morrow, Ali,
but the day after when thou bringest me another supply of fish. There is danger
in coming too often--and for that, thou must go now. Staying too long is
dangerous as coming too often.... But tell me of our master. Is he indeed the
Sultan of Sultans he promised to be? Is he well? Where is he? What is he doing?"
"Not so fast, O Emir, not so fast, I pray you! Better a double mouthful of stale
porpoise fat, with a fin bone in it, than so many questions at once." "Oh, but I
have been so long in the slow-moving Christian world without news!" "Verily, O
Emir, Padishah Mahommed will be greatest of the _Gabour_ eaters since Padishah
Othman--that to your first. He is well. His bones have reached their utmost
limit, but his soul keeps growing--that to your second. He holds himself at
Adrianople. Men say he is building mosques. I say he is building cannon to shoot
bullets big as his father's tomb; when they are fired, the faithful at Medina
will hear the noise, and think it thunder--that to your third. And as to his
doing--getting ready for war, meaning business for everybody, from the Shiek-ul-
Islam to the thieving tax-farmers of Bagdad--to the Kislar-Jinn of Abad-on with
them. He has the census finished, and now the Pachas go listing the able-bodied,
of whom they have half a million, with as many more behind. They say the young
master means to make a _sandjak_ of unbelieving Europe." "Enough, Ali!--the rest
next time." The Count went to the table, and from a secret drawer brought a
package wrapped in leather, and sealed carefully. "This for our Lord--exalted be
his name! How wilt thou take it?" Ali laughed. "In my tray to the boat, but the
fish are fresh, and there are flowers of worse odor in Cashmere. So, O Emir, for
this once. Next time, and thereafter, I will have a hiding-place ready." "Now,
Ali, farewell. Thy name shall be sweet in our master's ears as a girl-song to
the moon of Ramazan. I will see to it." Ali took the package, and hid it in the
bosom of his dirty shirt. When he passed out of the front door, it lay
undistinguishable under the fish and fish meat; and he whispered to the Count in
going: "I have an order from the Governor of the White Castle for my unsold
stock. God is great!" Corti, left alone, flung himself on a chair. He had word
from Mahommed--that upon which he counted so certainly as a charm in
counteraction of the depression taking possession of his spirit. There it was in
his hand, a declaration of confidence unheard of in an Oriental despot. Yet the
effect was wanting. Even as he sat thinking the despondency deepened. He groped
for the reason in vain. He strove for cheer in the big war of which Ali had
spoken--in the roar of cannon, like thunder in Medina--in Europe a Sultanic
_sandjak_. He could only smile at the exaggeration. In fact, his trouble was the
one common to every fine nature in a false position. His business was to deceive
and betray--whom? The degradation was casting its shadow before. Heaven help
when the eclipse should be full! For relief he read the screed again: "Tell me
this time of thyself first; then of _her_." ... Ah, yes, the kinswoman of the
Emperor! He must devise a way to her acquaintance, and speedily. And casting
about for it, he became restless, and finally resolved to go out into the city.
He sent for the chestnut Arab, and putting on the steel cap and golden spurs had
from the Holy Father was soon in the saddle. It was about three o'clock
afternoon, with a wind tempered to mildness by a bright sun. The streets were
thronged, while the balconies and overhanging windows had their groups on the
lookout for entertainment and gossip. As may be fancied the knightly rider and
gallant barb, followed by a dark-skinned, turbaned servant in Moorish costume,
attracted attention. Neither master nor man appeared to give heed to the eager
looks and sometimes over-loud questions with which they were pursued. Turning
northward presently, the Count caught sight of the dome of Sancta Sophia. It
seemed to him a vast, upturned silver bowl glistening in the sky, and he drew
rein involuntarily, wondering how it could be upheld; then he was taken with a
wish to go in, and study the problem. Having heard from Mahommed, he was lord of
his time, and here was noble diversion. In front of the venerable edifice, he
gave his horse to the dark-faced servant, and entered the outer court
unattended. A company, mixed apparently of every variety of persons, soldiers,
civilians, monks, and women, held the pavement in scattered groups; and while he
halted a moment to survey the exterior of the building, cold and grimly plain
from cornice to base, he became himself an object of remark to them. About the
same time a train of monastics, bareheaded, and in long gray gowns, turned in
from the street, chanting monotonously, and in most intensely nasal tones. The
Count, attracted by their pale faces, hollow eyes and unkept beards, waited for
them to cross the court. Unkept their beards certainly were, but not white. This
was the beginning of the observation he afterward despatched to Mahommed: Only
the walls of Byzantium remain for her defence; the Church has absorbed her young
men; the sword is discarded for the rosary. Nor could he help remarking that
whereas the _frati_ of Italy were fat, rubicund, and jolly, these seemed in
search of death through the severest penitential methods. His thought recurring
to the house again, he remembered having heard how every hour of every day from
five o'clock in the morning to midnight was filled with religious service of
some kind in Sancta Sophia. A few stone steps the full length of the court led
up to five great doors of bronze standing wide open; and as the train took one
of the latter and began to disappear, he chose another, and walked fast in order
to witness the entry. Brought thus into the immense vestibule, he stopped, and
at once forgot the gray brethren. Look where he might, at the walls, and now up
to the ceiling, every inch of space wore the mellowed brightness of mosaic
wrought in cubes of glass exquisitely graduated in color. What could he do but
stand and gaze at the Christ in the act of judging the world? Such a cartoon had
never entered his imagination. The train was gone when he awoke ready to
proceed. There were then nine doors also of bronze conducting from the
vestibule. The central and larger one was nearest him. Pushed lightly, it swung
open on noiseless hinges; a step or two, and he stood in the nave or auditorium
of the Holy House. The reader will doubtless remember how Duke Vlodomir, the
grandson of Olga, the Russian, coming to Constantinople to receive a bride,
entered Sancta Sophia the first time, and from being transfixed by what he saw
and heard, fell down a convert to Christianity. Not unlike was the effect upon
Corti. In a sense he, too, was an unbeliever semi-barbaric in education. Many
were the hours he had spent with Mahommed while the latter, indulging his taste,
built palaces and mosques on paper, striving for vastness and original splendor.
But what was the Prince's utmost achievement in comparison with this interior?
Had it been an ocean grotto, another Caprian cave, bursting with all imaginable
revelations of light and color, he could not have been more deeply impressed.
Without architectural knowledge; acquainted with few of the devices employed in
edificial construction, and still less with the mysterious power of combination
peculiar to genius groping for effects in form, dimensions, and arrangement of
stone on stone with beautiful and sublime intent; yet he had a soul to be
intensely moved by such effects when actually set before his eyes. He walked
forward slowly four or five steps from the door, looking with excited vision--
not at details or to detect the composition of any of the world of objects
constituting the view, or with a thought of height, breadth, depth, or value--
the marbles of the floor rich in multiformity and hues, and reflective as
motionless water, the historic pillars, the varied arches, the extending
galleries, the cornices, friezes, balustrades, crosses of gold, mosaics, the
windows and interlacing rays of light, brilliance here, shadows yonder--the apse
in the east, and the altar built up in it starry with burning candles and
glittering with prismatic gleams shot from precious stones and metals in every
conceivable form of grace--lamps, cups, vases, candlesticks, cloths, banners,
crucifixes, canopies, chairs, Madonnas, Child Christs and Christs Crucified--and
over all, over lesser domes, over arches apparently swinging in the air, broad,
high, near yet far away, the dome of Sancta Sophia, defiant of imitation, like
unto itself alone, a younger sky within the elder--these, while he took those
few steps, merged and ran together in a unity which set his senses to reeling,
and made question and thought alike impossible. How long the Count stood thus
lost to himself in the glory and greatness of the place, he never knew. The
awakening was brought about by a strain of choral music, which, pouring from the
vicinity of the altar somewhere, flooded the nave, vast as it was, from floor to
dome. No voice more fitting could be imagined; and it seemed addressing itself
to him especially. He trembled, and began to think. First there came to him a
comparison in which the Kaaba was a relative. He recalled the day he fell dying
at the corner under the Black Stone. He saw the draped heap funereally dismal in
the midst of the cloisters. How bare and poor it seemed to him now! He
remembered the visages and howling of the demoniac wretches struggling to kiss
the stone, though with his own kiss he had just planted it with death. How
different the worship here! ... This, he thought next, was his mother's
religion. And what more natural than that he should see that mother descending
to the chapel in her widow's weeds to pray for him? Tears filled his eyes. His
heart arose chokingly in his throat. Why should not her religion be his? It was
the first time he had put the question to himself directly; and he went further
with it. What though Allah of the Islamite and Jehovah of the Hebrew were the
same?--What though the Koran and the Bible proceeded from the same inspiration?
--What though Mahomet and Christ were alike Sons of God? There were differences
in the worship, differences in the personality of the worshippers. Why, except
to allow every man a choice according to his ideas of the proper and best in
form and companionship? And the spirit swelled within him as he asked, Who are
my brethren? They who stole me from my father's house, who slew my father, who
robbed my mother of the lights of life, and left her to the darkness of mourning
and the bitterness of ungratified hope--were not they the brethren of my
brethren? At that moment an old man appeared before the altar with assistants in
rich canonicals. One placed on the elder's head what seemed a crown all a mass
of flaming jewels; another laid upon him a cloak of cloth of gold; a third
slipped a ring over one of his fingers; whereupon the venerable celebrant drew
nearer the altar, and, after a prayer, took up a chalice and raised it as if in
honor to an image of Christ on a cross in the agonies of crucifixion. Then
suddenly the choir poured its triumphal thunder abroad until the floor, and
galleries, and pendant lamps seemed to vibrate. The assistants and worshippers
sank upon their knees, and ere he was aware the Count was in the same attitude
of devotion. The posture consisted perfectly with policy, his mission
considered. Soon or late he would have to adopt every form and observance of
Christian worship. In this performance, however, there was no premeditation, no
calculation. In his exaltation of soul he fancied he heard a voice passing with
the tempestuous jubilation of the singers: "On thy knees, O apostate! On thy
knees! God is here!" But his was a combative nature; and coming to himself, and
not understanding clearly the cause of his prostration, he presently arose. Of
the worshippers in sight, he alone was then standing, and the sonorous music
ringing on, he was beginning to doubt the propriety of his action, when a number
of women, unobserved before, issued from a shaded corner at the right of the
apse, fell into processional order, and advanced slowly toward him. One moved by
herself in front. A reflection of her form upon the polished floor lent
uncertainty to her stature, and gave her an appearance of walking on water.
Those following were plainly her attendants. They were all veiled; while a white
mantle fell from her left shoulder, its ends lost in the folds of the train of
her gown, leaving the head, face, and neck bare. Her manner, noticeable in the
distance even, was dignified without hauteur, simple, serious, free of
affectation. She was not thinking of herself.... Nearer--he heard no foot-fall.
Now and then she glided through slanting rays of soft, white light cast from
upper windows, and they seemed to derive ethereality from her.... Nearer--and he
could see the marvellous pose of the head, and the action of the figure, never
incarnation more graceful.... Yet nearer--he beheld her face, in complexion a
child's, in expression a woman's. The eyes were downcast, the lips moved. She
might have been the theme of the music sweeping around her in acclamatory waves,
drowning the part she was carrying in suppressed murmur. He gazed steadfastly at
the countenance. The light upon the forehead was an increasing radiance, like a
star's refined by passage through the atmospheres of infinite space. A man
insensitive to beauty in woman never was, never will be. Vows cannot alter
nature; neither can monkish garbs nor years; and it is knowledge of this which
makes every woman willing to last sacrifices for the gift; it is power to her,
vulgarizing accessories like wealth, coronets and thrones. With this confession
in mind, words are not needed to inform the reader of the thrills which assailed
the Count while the marvel approached. The service was over as to her, and she
was evidently seeking to retire by the main door; but as he stood in front of
it, she came within two or three steps before noticing him. Then she stopped
suddenly, astonished by the figure in shining armor. A flush overspread her
face; smiling at her alarm, she spoke: "I pray pardon, Sir Knight, for
disturbing thy devotions." "And I, fair lady, am grateful to Heaven that it
placed me in thy way to the door unintentionally." He stepped aside, and she
passed on and out. The interior of the church, but a minute before so
overwhelmingly magnificent and impressive, became commonplace and dull. The
singing rolled on unheard. His eyes fixed on the door through which she went;
his sensations were as if awakening from a dream in which he had seen a heavenly
visitant, and been permitted to speak to it. The spell ceased with the music;
then, with swift returning sense, he remembered Mahommed's saying: "Thou wilt
know her at sight." And he knew her--the _Her_ of the screed brought only that
day by Ali. Nor less distinctly did he recall every incident of the parting with
Mahommed, every word, every injunction--the return of the ruby ring, even then
doubtless upon the imperious master's third finger, a subject of hourly study--
the further speech, "They say whoever looketh at her is thenceforward her lover"
--and the final charge, with its particulars, concluding: "Forget not that in
Constantinople, when I come, I am to receive her from thy hand peerless in all
things as I left her." His shoes of steel were strangely heavy when he regained
his horse at the edge of the court. For the first time in years, he climbed into
the saddle using the stirrup like a man reft of youth. He would love the woman--
he could not help it. Did not every man love her at sight? The idea colored
everything as he rode slowly back to his quarters. Dismounting at the door, it
plied him with the repetition, _Every man loves her at sight_. He thought of
training himself to hate her, but none the less through the hours of the night
he heard the refrain, _Every man loves her at sight_. In a clearer condition,
his very inability to shut her out of mind, despite his thousand efforts of
will, would have taught him that another judgment was upon him. HE LOVED HER.
CHAPTER VII

COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED

At noon the days are a little more yellow, and the shadows a trifle longer,
while at evening the snows on the far mountains give the air a coolness gently
admonitory of the changing season; with these exceptions there is scarcely a
difference between the September to which we now come and the closing stages of
June. Count Corti is fully settled in his position. Withal, however, he is very
miserable. A new light has been let in upon his being. He finds it a severe
trial to serve a Mahommedan, knowing himself a Christian born, and still more
difficult trying to be a Turk, knowing himself an Italian. The stings grow
sharper as experience makes it plainer that he is nefariously helping those whom
he ought to regard enemies destroy an Emperor and people who never gave him
offence. Worst of all, most crushing to spirit, is his passion for the Princess
Irene while under obligations to Mahommed prohibitory of every hope, dream, and
self-promise ordinarily the sweetest incidents of love. The person with a mental
ailment curable by prompt decision, who yet goes about debating what to do, will
ere long find his will power so weakened as to leave him a confirmed wreck.
Count Corti seemed likely to become an instance in point. The months since his
visit to the paternal castle in Italy, really the beginning of the conflicts
tossing him now here, now there, were full of warnings he could but hear; still
he continued his course. His reports to Mahommed were frequent, and as they are
of importance to our story, we think it advisable to quote from some of them.
The following is from his first communication after the visit to Sancta Sophia:

"I cast myself at your feet, O my Lord, praying Allah to keep you in health, and
strengthen the wise designs which occupy you incessantly.... You bade me always
speak first of the kinswoman of the Emperor. Yesterday I rode to the Church
supreme in the veneration of the Greeks, erected, it is said, by the Emperor
Justinian. Its vastness amazed me, and, knowing my Lord's love for such
creations, I declare, were there no other incentive to the conquest of this
unbelieving city than the reduction of Sancta Sophia to the religious usages of
Islam, its possession would alone justify my Lord's best effort, regardless of
life and treasure. The riches accumulated in it through the ages are
incalculable; nevertheless its splendors, dazzling as the sun, varied as a
rainbow, sunk out of sight when the Princess Irene passed me so near that I had
a perfect view of her. Her face is composed of the light of unnumbered stars.
The union of all the graces in her person is so far above words that Hafiz, my
Lord's prince of poets, would have been dumb before her, or, if he had spoken,
it would have been to say, She is the Song of Songs impossible to verse. She
spoke to me as she moved by, and her voice was the voice of Love. Yet she had
the dignity of a Queen governing the world through a conqueror such as my Lord
is to be. Then, the door having closed upon her, I was ready to declare, as I
now do, were there no other incentive to the conquest of this unbelieving city
than the possession of the womanly perfections belonging to her, she would
justify war to the exhaustion of the universe. O my Lord, thou only art worthy
of her! And how infinite will be my happiness, if the Prophet through his
powerful intercessions with the Most Merciful, permits me to be the servant
instrumental in bringing her safely to thy arms!" This report concluded:

"By appointment of His Majesty, the Emperor, I had audience with him yesterday
at his High Residence, the Palace of Blacherne. The Court was in full
attendance, and, after my presentation to His Majesty, I was introduced to its
members. The ceremony was in charge of the Grand Chamberlain, that Phranza with
whom my Lord is acquainted. Much I feared lest he should recognize me.
Fortunately he is dull and philosophical, and too much given to study of things
abstract and far away to be mindful of those close under his nose. Duke Notaras
was there also. He conversed with me about Italy. Fortunately I knew more about
the _Gabour_ country than he--its nobles, cities, manners, and present
conditions. He thanked me for information, and when he had my account of the
affair which brought me the invaluable certificate of the Bishop of Rome he gave
over sounding me. I have more reason to be watchful of him than all the rest of
the court; _so has the Emperor_. Phranza is a man to be spared. Notaras is a man
to be bowstrung.... I flatter myself the Emperor is my friend. In another month
I shall be intrenched in his confidence. He is brave, but weak. An excellent
general without lieutenants, without soldiers, and too generous and trustful for
a politician, too religious for a statesman. His time is occupied entirely with
priests and priestly ceremonies. My Lord will appreciate the resort which
enabled me to encamp myself in his trust. Of the five Arab horses I brought with
me from Aleppo, I gave him one--a gray, superior to the best he has in his
stables. He and his courtiers descended in a body to look at the barb and admire
it." From the third report:

"A dinner at the High Residence. There were present officers of the army and
navy, members of the Court, the Patriarch, a number of the Clergy--Hegumen, as
they are called--and the Princess Irene, with a large suite of highborn ladies
married and unmarried. His Majesty was the Sun of the occasion, the Princess was
the Moon. He sat on a raised seat at one side of the table; she opposite him;
the company according to rank, on their right and left. I had eyes for the Moon
only, thinking how soon my Lord would be her source of light, and that her
loveliness, made up of every loveliness else in the world, would then be the
fitting complement of my Lord's glory.... His Majesty did me the honor to lead
me to her, and she did me the higher honor of permitting me to kiss her hand. In
further thought of what she was to my Lord, I was about making her a salaam, but
remembered myself--Italians are not given to that mode of salutation, while the
Greeks reserve it for the Emperor, or Basileus as he is sometimes called.... She
condescended to talk with me. Her graces of mind are like those of her person--
adorable.... I was very deferent, and yielded the choice of topics. She chose
two--religion and arms. Had she been a man, she would have been a soldier; being
a woman, she is a religious devotee. There is nothing of which she is more
desirous than the restoration of the Holy Sepulchre to the Christian powers. She
asked me if it were true the Holy Father commissioned me to make war on the
Tripolitan pirates, and when I said yes, she replied with a fervor truly
engaging: 'The practice of arms would be the noblest of occupations if it were
given solely to crusading.' ... She then adverted to the Holy Father. I infer
from her speaking of the Bishop of Rome as the Holy Father that she inclines to
the party which believes the Bishop rightfully the head of the Church. How did
he look? Was he a learned man? Did he set a becoming example to his Clergy? Was
he liberal and tolerant? If great calamity were to threaten Christianity in the
East, would he lend it material help?... My Lord will have a time winning the
Princess over to the Right Understanding; but in the fields of Love who ever
repented him of his labor? When my Lord was a boy, he once amused himself
training a raven and a bird of paradise to talk. The raven at length came to
say, 'O Allah, Allah!' The other bird was beyond teaching, yet my Lord loved it
the best, and excused his partiality: 'Oh, its feathers are so brilliant!'"
Again:

"A few days ago, I rode out of the Golden Gate, and turning to the right,
pursued along the great moat to the Gate St. Romain. The wall, or rather the
walls, of the city were on my right hand, and it is an imposing work. The moat
is in places so cumbered I doubt if it can be everywhere flooded.... I bought
some snow-water of a peddler, and examined the Gate in and out. Its central
position makes it a key of first importance. Thence I journeyed on surveying the
road and adjacent country up far as the Adrianople gate.... I hope my Lord will
find the enclosed map of my reconnoissance satisfactory. It is at least
reliable." Again:

"His Majesty indulged us with a hawking party. We rode to the Belgrade forest
from which Constantinople is chiefly though not entirely supplied with water....
My Lord's Flower of Flowers, the Princess, was of the company. I offered her my
chestnut courser, but she preferred a jennet. Remembering your instructions, O
my Lord, I kept close to her bridle. She rides wonderfully well; yet if she had
fallen, how many prayers to the Prophet, what amount of alms to the poor, would
have availed me with my Lord?... Riding is a lost art with the Greeks, if the
ever possessed it. The falcon killed a heron beyond a hill which none of them,
except the Emperor, dared cross in their saddles. Some day I will show them how
we of my Lord's loving ride.... The Princess came safely home." Again:

"O my Lord in duty always!... I paid the usual daily visit to the Princess, and
kissed her hand upon my admission and departing. She has this quality above
other women--she is always the same. The planets differ from her in that they
are sometimes overcast by clouds.... From her house, I rode to the imperial
arsenal, situated in the ground story of the Hippodrome, northern side.
[Footnote: Professor E A Grosvenor.] It is well stored with implements of
offence and defence--mangonels, balistas, arbalists, rams--cranes for repairing
breaches--lances, javelins, swords, axes, shields, scutums, pavises, armor--
timber for ships--cressets for night work--ironmonger machines--arquebuses, but
of antique patterns--quarrels and arrows in countless sheaves--bows of every
style. In brief, as my Lord's soul is dauntless, as he is an eagle, which does
not abandon the firmament scared by the gleam of a huntsman's helmet in the
valley, he can bear to hear that the Emperor keeps prepared for the emergencies
of war. Indeed, were His Majesty as watchful in other respects, he would be
dangerous. Who are to serve all these stores? His native soldiers are not enough
to make a bodyguard for my Lord. Only the walls of Byzantium remain for her
defence. The Church has swallowed the young men; the sword is discarded for the
rosary. Unless the warriors of the West succor her, she will be an easy prey."
Again:

"My Lord enjoined me to be royal.... I have just returned from a sail up the
Bosphorus to the Black Sea in my galley. The decks were crowded with guests.
Under a silken pavilion pitched on the roof of my cabin, there was a throne for
the Princess Irene, and she shone as the central jewel in a kingly crown.... We
cast anchor in the bay of Therapia, and went ashore to her palace and gardens.
On the outside face of one of the gate-columns, she showed me a brass plate. I
recognized my Lord's signature and safeguard, and came near saluting them with a
_rik'rath_, but restraining myself, asked her innocently, 'What it was?' O my
Lord, verily I congratulate you! She blushed, and cast down her eyes, and her
voice trembled while she answered: 'They say the Prince Mahommed nailed it
there.' 'What Prince Mahommed?' 'He who is now Sultan of the Turks.' 'He has
been here, then? Did you see him?' 'I saw an Arab story-teller.' Her face was
the hue of a scarlet poppy, and I feared to go further than ask concerning the
plate: 'What does it mean?' And she returned: 'The Turks never go by without
prostrating themselves before it. They say it is notice to them that I, and my
house and grounds, are sacred from their intrusion.' And then I said: 'Amongst
peoples of the East and the Desert, down far as the Barbary coast, the Sultan
Mahommed has high fame for chivalry. His bounties to those once fortunate enough
to excite his regard are inexhaustible.' She would have had me speak further of
you, but out of caution, I was driven to declare I knew nothing beyond the
hearsay of the Islamites among whom I had been here and there cast.... My Lord
will not require me to describe the palace by Therapia. He has seen it.... The
Princess remained there. I was at sore loss, not knowing how I could continue to
make report of her to my Lord, until, to my relief she invited me to visit her."
Again:

"I am glad to say, for my Lord's sake, that the October winds, sweeping down
from the Black Sea, have compelled his Princess to return to her house in the
city, where she will abide till the summer comes again. I saw her to-day. The
country life has retouched her cheeks with a just-sufficient stain of red roses;
her lips are scarlet, as if she had been mincing fresh-blown bloom of
pomegranates; her eyes are clear as a crooning baby's; her neck is downy--round
as a white dove's; in her movements afoot, she reminds me of the swaying of a
lily-stalk brushed softly by butterflies and humming-birds, attracted to its
open cup of paradisean wax. Oh, if I could but tell her of my Lord!"... This
report was lengthy, and included the account of an episode more personal to the
Sultanic emissary than any before given his master. It was dated October. The
subjoined extracts may prove interesting. ... "Everybody in the East has heard
of the Hippodrome, whither I went one day last week, and again yesterday. It was
the mighty edifice in which Byzantine vanity aired itself through hundreds of
years. But little of it is now left standing. At the north end of an area
probably seventy paces wide, and four hundred long, is a defaced structure with
a ground floor containing the arsenal, and on that, boxes filled with seats. A
lesser building rises above the boxes which is said to have been a palace called
the _Kathisma_, from which the Emperor looked down upon the various amusements
of the people, such as chariot racing, and battles between the Blue and Green
factions. Around the area from the _Kathisma_ lie hills of brick and marble--
enough to build the Palace as yet hid in my Lord's dreams, and a mosque to
becomingly house our Mohammedan religion. In the midst, marking a line central
of the race-course, are three relics--a square pillar quite a hundred feet high,
bare now, but covered once with plates of brass--an obelisk from Egypt--and a
twisted bronze column, representing three writhing serpents, their heads in air.
[Footnote: The Hippodrome was the popular pleasure resort in Constantinople.
Besides accommodating one hundred thousand spectators, it was the most complete
building for the purposes of its erection ever known. The world--including old
Rome--had been robbed of statuary for the adornment of this extravaganza. Its
enormous level posed in great part upon a substructure of arches on arches,
which still exist. The opinion is quite general that it was destroyed by the
Turks, and that much of its material went to construct the Mosque Sulymanie. The
latter averment is doubtless correct; but it is only justice to say that the
Crusaders, so called Christians, who encamped in Constantinople in 1204 were the
real vandals. For pastime, merely, they plied their battle-axes on the carvings,
inscriptions, and vast collection of statuary in marble and bronze found by them
on the spinet, and elsewhere in the edifice. When they departed, the Hippodrome
was an irreparable ruin--a convenient and lawful quarry.]... The present Emperor
does not honor the ruin with his presence; but the people come, and sitting in
the boxes under the KATHISMA, and standing on the heaps near by, find diversion
watching the officers and soldiers exercising their horses along the area.... My
Lord must know, in the next place, that there is in the city a son of the Orchan
who terms himself lawful heir of Solyman of blessed memory--the Orchan pretender
to my Lord's throne, whom the Greeks have been keeping in mock confinement--the
Orchan who is the subject of the present Emperor's demand on my Lord for an
increase of the stipend heretofore paid for the impostor's support. The son of
the pretender, being a Turk, affects the martial practices prevalent with us,
and enjoys notoriety for accomplishments as a horseman, and in the tourney play
djerid. He is even accredited with an intention of one day taking the field
against my Lord--this when his father, the old Orchan, dies.... When I entered
the Hippodrome one day last week, Orchan the younger occupied the arena before
the Kathisma. The boxes were well filled with spectators. Some officers of my
acquaintance were present, mounted like myself, and they accosted me politely,
and eulogized the performance. Afterwhile I joined in their commendation, but
ventured to say I had seen better exercise during my sojourn among the infidels
in the Holy Land. They asked me if I had any skill. 'I cannot call it skill,' I
said; 'but my instruction was from a noble master, the Sheik of the Jordan.'
Nothing would rest them then but a trial. At length I assented on condition that
the Turk would engage me in a tourney or a combat without quarter--bow, cimeter,
spear--on horseback and in Moslem armor. They were astonished, but agreed to
carry the challenge.... Now, O my Lord, do not condemn me. My residence here has
extended into months, without an incident to break the peace. Your pleasure is
still my rule. I keep the custom of going about on horseback and in armor. Once
only--at His Majesty's dinner--I appeared in a Venetian suit--a red mantle and
hose, one leg black, the other yellow--red-feathered cap, shoes with the long
points chained to my knees. Was there not danger of being mistaken for a
strutting bird of show? If my hand is cunning with weapons, should not the
Greeks be taught it? How better recommend myself to His Majesty of Blacherne?
Then, what an opportunity to rid my Lord of future annoyance! Old Orchan cannot
live much longer, while this cheeping chicken is young.... The son of the
pretender, being told I was an Italian, replied he would try a tourney with me;
if I proved worthy, he would consider the combat.... Yesterday was the time for
the meeting. There was a multitude out as witnesses, the Emperor amongst others.
He did not resort to the _Kathisma,_ but kept his saddle, with a bodyguard of
horsemen at his back. His mount was my gray Arab.... We began with volting,
demi-volting, jumping, wheeling in retreat, throwing the horse. Orchan was a
fumbler.... We took to bows next, twelve arrows each. At full speed he put two
bolts in the target, and I twelve, all in the white ring.... Then spear against
cimeter. I offered him choice, and he took the spear. In the first career, the
blunted head of his weapon fell to the ground shorn off close behind the
ferrule. The spectators cheered and laughed, and growing angry, Orchan shouted
it was an accident, and challenged me to combat. I accepted, but His Majesty
interposed--we might conclude with the spear and sword in tourney again.... My
antagonist, charged with malicious intent, resolved to kill me. I avoided his
shaft, and as his horse bolted past on my left, I pushed him with my shield, and
knocked him from the saddle. They picked him up bleeding nose and ears. His
Majesty invited me to accompany him to Blacherne.... I left the Hippodrome sorry
not to have been permitted to fight the vain fool; yet my repute in
Constantinople is now undoubtedly good--I am a soldier to be cultivated." Again:

"His Majesty has placed me formally in charge of the gate in front of my
quarters. Communication with my Lord is now at all times easy. _The keys of the
city are in effect mine._ Nevertheless I shall continue to patronize Ali. His
fish are the freshest brought to market." Again:

"O my Lord, the Princess Irene is well and keeps the morning colors in her
cheeks for you. Yet I found her quite distraught. There was unwelcome news at
the Palace from His Majesty's ambassador at Adrianople. The Sultan had at last
answered the demand for increase of the Orchan stipend--not only was the
increase refused, but the stipend itself was withdrawn, and a peremptory order
to that effect sent to the province whence the fund has been all along
collected.... I made a calculation, with conclusion that my report of the
tourney with young Orchan reached my Lord's hand, and I now am patting myself on
the back, happy to believe it had something to do with my Lord's decision. The
imposition deserved to have its head blown off. Orchan is a dotard. His son's
ears are still impaired. In the fall the ground caught him crown first. He will
never ride again. The pretension is over.... I rode from the Princess' house
directly to Blacherne. The Grand Council was in session: yet the Prefect of the
Palace admitted me.... O my Lord, this Constantine is a man, a warrior, an
Emperor, surrounded by old women afraid of their shadows. The subject of
discussion when I went in was the news from Adrianople. His Majesty was of
opinion that your decision, coupled with the order discontinuing the stipend,
was sign of a hostile intent. He was in favor of preparing for war. Phranza
thought diplomacy not yet spent. Notaras asked what preparations His Majesty had
in mind. His Majesty replied, buying cannon and powder, stocking the magazines
with provisions for a siege, increasing the navy, repairing the walls, clearing
out the moat. He would also send an embassy to the Bishop of Rome, and through
him appeal to the Christian powers of Europe for assistance in men and money.
Notaras rejoined instantly: 'Rather than a Papal Legate in Constantinople, he
would prefer a turbaned Turk.' The Council broke up in confusion.... Verily, O
my Lord, I pitied the Emperor. So much courage, so much weakness! His capital
and the slender remnant of his empire are lost unless the _Gabours_ of Venice
and Italy come to his aid. Will they? The Holy Father, using the opportunity,
will try once more to bring the Eastern Church to its knees, and failing, will
leave it to its fate. If my Lord knocked at these gates to-morrow, Notaras would
open one of them, and I another.... Yet the Emperor will fight. He has the soul
of a hero." Again:

"The Princess Irene is inconsolable. Intensely Greek, and patriotic, and not a
little versed in politics, she sees nothing cheering in the situation of the
Empire. The vigils of night in her oratory are leaving their traces on her face.
Her eyes are worn with weeping. I find it impossible not to sympathize with so
much beauty tempered by so many virtues. When the worst has befallen, perhaps my
Lord will know how to comfort her." Finally:

"It is a week since I last wrote my Lord. Ali has been sick but keeps in good
humor, and says he will be well when Christian winds cease blowing from
Constantinople. He prays you to come and stop them.... The diplomatic mishaps of
the Emperor have quickened the religious feuds of his subjects. The Latins
everywhere quote the speech of Notaras in the Council: 'Rather than a Papal
Legate in Constantinople, I prefer a turbaned Turk'--and denounce it as treason
to God and the State. It certainly represents the true feeling of the Greek
clergy; yet they are chary in defending the Duke.... The Princess is somewhat
recovered, although perceptibly paler than is her wont. She is longing for the
return of spring, and promises herself health and happiness in the palace at
Therapia.... To-morrow, she informs me, there is to be a special grand service
in Sancta Sophia. The Brotherhoods here and elsewhere will be present. I will be
there also. She hopes peace and rest from doctrinal disputes will follow. We
will see." The extracts above given will help the reader to an idea of life in
Constantinople; more especially they portray the peculiar service rendered by
Corti during the months they cover. There are two points in them deserving
special notice: The warmth of description indulged with respect to the Princess
Irene and the betrayal of the Emperor. It must not be supposed the Count was
unaware of his perfidy. He did his writing after night, when the city and his
own household were asleep; and the time was chosen, not merely for greater
security from discovery, but that no eye might see the remorse he suffered. How
often he broke off in the composition to pray for strength to rescue his honor,
and save himself from the inflictions of conscience! There were caverns in the
mountains and islands off in the mid-seas: why not fly to them? Alas! He was now
in a bondage which made him weak as water. It was possible to desert Mahommed,
but not the Princess. The dangers thickening around the city were to her as
well. Telling her of them were useless; she would never abandon the old Capital;
and it was the perpetually recurring comparison of her strength with his own
weakness which wrought him his sharpest pangs. Writing of her in poetic strain
was easy, for he loved her above every earthly consideration: but when he
thought of the intent with which he wrote--that he was serving the love of
another, and basely scheming to deliver her to him--there was no refuge in
flight; recollection would go with him to the ends of the earth--better death.
Not yet--not yet--he would argue. Heaven might send him a happy chance. So the
weeks melted into months, and he kept the weary way hoping against reason,
conspiring, betraying, demoralizing, sinking into despair. CHAPTER VIII

OUR LORD'S CREED

Proceeding now to the special service mentioned in the extract from the last
report of Count Corti to Mahommed. The nave of Sancta Sophia was in possession
of a multitude composed of all the Brotherhoods of the city, interspersed with
visiting delegations from the monasteries of the Islands and many of the
hermitic colonies settled in the mountains along the Asiatic shore of the
Marmora. In the galleries were many women; amongst them, on the right-hand side,
the Princess Irene. Her chair rested on a carpeted box a little removed from the
immense pilaster, and raised thus nearly to a level with the top of the
balustrade directly before her, she could easily overlook the floor below,
including the apse. From her position everybody appeared dwarfed; yet she could
see each figure quite well in the light of the forty arched windows above the
galleries. On the floor the chancel, or space devoted to the altar, was
separated from the body of the nave by a railing of Corinthian brass, inside
which, at the left, she beheld the Emperor, in Basilean regalia, seated on a
throne--a very stately and imposing figure. Opposite him was the chair of the
Patriarch. Between the altar and the railing arose a baldacchino, the canopy of
white silk, the four supporting columns of shining silver. Under the canopy,
suspended by a cord, hung the vessel of gold containing the Blessed Sacraments;
and to the initiated it was a sufficient publication of the object of the
assemblage. Outside the railing, facing the altar, stood the multitude. To get
an idea of its appearance, the reader has merely to remember the description of
the bands marching into the garden of Blacherne the night of the _Pannychides_.
There were the same gowns black and gray; the same tonsured heads, and heads
shock-haired; the same hoods and glistening rosaries; the same gloomy, bearded
faces; the same banners, oriflammes, and ecclesiastical gonfalons, each with its
community under it in a distinctive group. Back further towards the entrances
from the vestibule was a promiscuous host of soldiers and civilians; having no
part in the service, they were there as spectators. The ceremony was under the
personal conduct of the Patriarch. Silence being complete, the choir, invisible
from the body of the nave, began its magnificent rendition of the
_Sanctus_--"Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth. Blessed is He who cometh in
the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest"--and during the singing, His
Serenity was clothed for the rite. Over his cassock, the deacons placed the
surplice of white linen, and over that again a stole stiff with gold embroidery.
He then walked slowly to the altar, and prayed; and when he had himself
communicated, he was led to the baldacchino, where he blessed the Body and the
Blood, and mixed them together in chalices, ready for delivery to the company of
servers kneeling about him. The Emperor, who, in common with the communicants
within and without the railing, had been on his knees, arose now and took
position before the altar in a prayerful attitude; whereupon the Patriarch
brought him a chalice on a small paten, and he put it to his lips, while the
choir rang the dome with triumphal symphony. His Serenity next returned to the
baldacchino, and commenced giving the cups to the servers; at the same time the
gate leading from the chancel to the nave was thrown open. Nor rustle of
garment, nor stir of foot was heard. Then a black-gowned figure arose amidst a
group not far from the gate, and said, in a hoarse voice, muffled by the flaps
of the hood covering his head and face:

"We are here, O Serenity, by thy invitation--here to partake of the Holy
Eucharist--and I see thou art about sending it to us. Now not a few present
believe there is no grace in leavened bread, and others hold it impiety to
partake thereof. Wherefore tell us"--

The Patriarch looked once at the speaker; then, delivering the chalice, signed
the servers to follow him; next instant, he stood in the open gateway, and with
raised hands, cried out:

"Holy things to the holy!" Repeating the ancient formula, he stepped aside to
allow the cup-bearers to pass into the nave; but they stood still, for there
came a skurry of sound not possible of location, so did it at the same moment
seem to be from the dome descending and from the floor going up to the dome. It
was the multitude rising from their knees. Now the Patriarch, though feeble in
body, was stout of soul and ready-witted, as they usually are whose lives pass
in combat and fierce debate. Regarding the risen audience calmly, he betook
himself to his chair, and spoke to his assistants, who brought a plain chasuble,
and put it on him, covering the golden stole completely. When he again appeared
in the spaceway of the open gate, as he presently did, every cleric and every
layman in the church to whom he was visible understood he took the interruption
as a sacrilege from which he sought by the change of attire to save himself.
"Whoso disturbs the Sacrament in celebration has need of cause for that he does;
for great is his offence whatever the cause." The Patriarch's look and manner
were void of provocation, except as one, himself rudely disposed, might discover
it in the humility somewhat too studied. "I heard my Brother--it would be an
untruth to say I did not--and to go acquit of deceit, I will answer him, God
helping me. Let me say first, while we have some differences in our faith, there
are many things about which we are agreed, the things in agreement outnumbering
those in difference; and of them not the least is the Real Presence once the
Sacraments are consecrated. Take heed, O Brethren! Do any of you deny the Real
Presence in the bread and wine of communion?" No man made answer. "It is as I
said--not one. Look you, then, if I or you--if any of us be tempted to anger or
passionate speech, and this house, long dedicated to the worship of God, and its
traditions of holiness too numerous for memory, and therefore of record only in
the Books of Heaven, fail the restraints due them, lo, Christ is here--Christ in
Real Presence--Christ our Lord in Body and Blood!" The old man stood aside,
pointing to the vessel under the baldacchino, and there were sighs and sobs.
Some shouted: "Blessed be the Son of God!" The sensation over, the Patriarch
continued:

"O my Brother, take thou answer now. The bread is leavened. Is it therefore less
grace-giving?" "No, no!" But the response was drowned by an affirmative yell so
strong there could be no doubt of the majority. The minority, however, was
obstinate, and ere long the groups disrupted, and it seemed every man became a
disputant. Now nothing serves anger like vain striving to be heard. The
Patriarch in deep concern stood in the gateway, exclaiming: "Have a care, O
Brethren, have a care! For now is Christ here!" And as the babble kept
increasing, the Emperor came to him. "They are like to carry it to blows, O
Serenity." "Fear not, my son, God is here, and He is separating the wheat from
the chaff." "But the blood shed will be on my conscience, and the _Panagia_"--

The aged Prelate was inflexible. "Nay, nay, not yet! They are Greeks. Let them
have it out. The day is young; and how often is shame the miraculous parent of
repentance." Constantine returned to his throne, and remained there standing.
Meantime the tumult went on until, with shouting and gesticulating, and running
about, it seemed the assemblage was getting mad with drink. Whether the
contention was of one or many things, who may say? Well as could be ascertained,
one party, taking cue from the Patriarch, denounced the interruption of the most
sacred rite; the other anathematized the attempt to impose leavened bread upon
orthodox communicants as a scheme of the devil and his arch-legate, the Bishop
of Rome. Men of the same opinions argued blindly with each other; while genuine
opposition was conducted with glaring eyes, swollen veins, clinched hands, and
voices high up in the leger lines of hate and defiance. The timorous and
disinclined were caught and held forcibly. In a word, the scene was purely
Byzantine, incredible of any other people. The excitement afterwhile extended to
the galleries, where, but that the women were almost universally of the Greek
faction, the same passion would have prevailed; as it was, the gentle creatures
screamed _azymite, azymite_ in amazing disregard of the proprieties. The
Princess Irene, at first pained and mortified, kept her seat until appearances
became threatening; then she scanned the vast pit long and anxiously; finally
her wandering eyes fell upon the tall figure of Sergius drawn out of the mass,
but facing it from a position near the gate of the brazen railing. Immediately
she settled back in her chair. To justify the emotion now possessing her, the
reader must return to the day the monk first presented himself at her palace
near Therapia. He must read again the confession, extorted from her by the
second perusal of Father Hilarion's letter, and be reminded of her education in
the venerated Father's religious ideas, by which her whole soul was adherent to
his conceptions of the Primitive Church of the Apostles. Nor less must the
reader suffer himself to be reminded of the consequences to her--of the judgment
of heresy upon her by both Latins and Greeks--of her disposition to protest
against the very madness now enacting before her--of her longing, Oh, that I
were a man!--of the fantasy that Heaven had sent Sergius to her with the voice,
learning, zeal, courage, and passion of truth to enable her to challenge a
hearing anywhere-of the persistence with which she had since cared for and
defended him, and watched him in his studies, and shared them with him. Nor must
the later incident, the giving him a copy of the creed she had formulated--the
Creed of Nine Words--be omitted in the consideration. Now indeed the reader can
comprehend the Princess, and the emotions with which she beheld the scene at her
feet. The Patriarch's dramatic warning of the Real Presence found in her a ready
second; for keeping strictly to Father Hilarion's distinction between a right
Creed and a form or ceremony for pious observance, the former essential to
salvation, the latter merely helpful to continence in the Creed, it was with her
as if Christ in glorified person stood there under the baldacchino. What wonder
if, from indignation at the madness of the assembly, the insensate howling, the
blasphemous rage, she passed to exaltation of spirit, and fancied the time good
for a reproclamation of the Primitive Church? Suddenly a sharper, fiercer
explosion of rage arose from the floor, and a rush ensued--the factions had come
to blows! Then the Patriarch yielded, and at a sign from the Emperor the choir
sang the _Sanctus_ anew. High and long sustained, the sublime anthem rolled
above the battle and its brutalism. The thousands heard it, and halting, faced
toward the apse, wondering what could be coming. It even reached into the vortex
of combat, and turned all the unengaged there into peacemakers. Another surprise
still more effective succeeded. Boys with lighted candles, followed by bearers
of smoking censers, bareheaded and in white, marched slowly from behind the
altar toward the open gate, outside which they parted right and left, and
stopped fronting the multitude. A broad banner hung to a cross-stick of gold,
heavy with fringing of gold, the top of the staff overhung with fresh flowers in
wreaths and garlands, the lower corners stayed by many streaming white ribbons
in the hands of as many holy men in white woollen chasubles extending to the
bare feet, appeared from the same retreat, carried by two brethren known to
every one as janitors of the sacred chapel on the hill-front of Blacherne. The
Emperor, the Patriarch, the servers of the chalices, the whole body of
assistants inside the railing, fell upon their knees while the banner was borne
through the gate, and planted on the floor there. Its face was frayed and dim
with age, yet the figure of the woman upon it was plain to sight, except as the
faint gray smoke from the censers veiled it in a vanishing cloud. Then there was
an outburst of many voices:

"The _Panagia!_ The _Panagia!_"

The feeling this time was reactionary. "O Blessed Madonna!--Guardian of
Constantinople!--Mother of God!--Christ is here!--Hosannas to the Son and to the
Immaculate Mother!" With these, and other like exclamations, the mass
precipitated itself forward, and, crowding near the historic symbol, flung
themselves on the floor before it, grovelling and contrite, if not conquered.
The movement of the candle and censer bearers outside the gate forced Sergius
nearer it; so when the _Panagia_ was brought to a rest, he, being much taller
than its guardians, became an object of general observation, and wishing to
escape it if possible, he took off his high hat; whereupon his hair, parted in
the middle, dropped down his neck and back fair and shining in the down-beating
light. This drew attention the more. Did any of the prostrate raise their eyes
to the Madonna on the banner, they must needs turn to him next; and presently
the superstitious souls, in the mood for miracles, began whispering to each
other:

"See--it is the Son--it is the Lord himself!" And of a truth the likeness was
startling; although in saying this, the reader must remember the difference
heretofore remarked between the Greek and Latin ideals. About that time Sergius
looked up to the Princess, whose face shone out of the shadows of the gallery
with a positive radiance, and he was electrified seeing her rise from her chair,
and wave a hand to him. He understood her. The hour long talked of, long
prepared for, was at last come--the hour of speech. The blood surged to his
heart, leaving him pallid as a dead man. He stooped lower, covered his eyes with
his hands, and prayed the wordless prayer of one who hastily commits himself to
God; and in the darkness behind his hands there was an illumination, and in the
midst of it a sentence in letters each a lambent flame--the Creed of Father
Hilarion and the Princess Irene--our Lord's Creed:

"I BELIEVE IN GOD, AND JESUS CHRIST, HIS SON." This was his theme! With no
thought of self, no consciousness but of duty to be done, trusting in God, he
stood up, pushed gently through the kneeling boys and guardians of the
_Panagia_, and took position where all eyes could look at the Blessed Mother
slightly above him, and then to himself, in such seeming the very Son. It might
have been awe, it might have been astonishment, it might have been presentiment;
at all events, the moaning, sobbing, praying, tossing of arms, beating of
breasts, with the other outward signs of remorse, grief and contrition grotesque
and pitiful alike subsided, and the Church, apse, nave and gallery, grew silent
--as if a wave had rushed in, and washed the life out of it. "Men and brethren,"
he began, "I know not whence this courage to do comes, unless it be from Heaven,
nor at whose word I speak, if not that Jesus of Nazareth, worker of miracles
which God did by him anciently, yet now here in Real Presence of Body and Blood,
hearing what we say, seeing what we do." "Art thou not He?" asked a hermit, half
risen in front of him, his wrap of undressed goatskin fallen away from his naked
shoulders. "No; his servant only am I, even as thou art--his servant who would
not have forsaken him at Gethsemane, who would have given him drink on the
Cross, who would have watched at the door of his tomb until laid to sleep by the
Delivering Angel--his servant not afraid of Death, which, being also his
servant, will not pass me by for the work I now do, if the work be not by his
word." The voice in this delivery was tremulous, and the manner so humble as to
take from the answer every trace of boastfulness. His face, when he raised it,
and looked out over the audience, was beautiful. The spectacle offered him in
return was thousands of people on their knees, gazing at him undetermined
whether to resent an intrusion or welcome a messenger with glad tidings. "Men
and brethren," he continued, more firmly, casting the old Scriptural address to
the farthest auditor, "now are you in the anguish of remorse; but who told you
that you had offended to such a degree? See you not the Spirit, sometimes called
the Comforter, in you? Be at ease, for unto us are repentance and pardon. There
were who beat our dear Lord, and spit upon him, and tore his beard; who laid him
on a cross, and nailed him to it with nails in his hands and feet; one wounded
him in the side with a spear; yet what did he, the Holy One and the Just? Oh! if
he forgave them glorying in their offences, will he be less merciful to us
repentant?" Raising his head a little higher, the preacher proceeded, with
increased assurance:

"Let me speak freely unto you; for how can a man repent wholly, if the cause of
his sin be not laid bare that he may see and hate it? "Now before our dear Lord
departed out of the world, he left sayings, simple even to children, instructing
such as would be saved unto everlasting life what they must do to be saved.
Those sayings I call our Lord's Creed, by him delivered unto his disciples, from
whom we have them: 'Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and
believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life.' So we have the First
Article--belief in God. Again: 'Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that
believeth on me hath everlasting life.' Behold the Second Article--belief in
Christ. "Now, for that the Son, and he who sent him, are at least in purpose
one, belief in either of them is declared sufficient; nevertheless it may be
simpler, if not safer, for us to cast the Two Articles together in a single
phrase; we have then a Creed which we may affirm was made and left behind him by
our Lord himself:

I BELIEVE IN GOD, AND JESUS CHRIST, HIS SON. And when we sound it, lo! two
conditions in all; and he who embraces them, more is not required of him; he is
already passed from death unto life--everlasting life. "This, brethren, is the
citadel of our Christian faith; wherefore, to strengthen it. What was the
mission of Jesus Christ our Lord to the world? Hear every one! What was the
mission of our Lord Jesus Christ? Why was he sent of God, and born into the
world? Hearing the question, take heed of the answer: He was sent of God for the
salvation of men. You have ears, hear; minds, think; nor shall one of you, the
richest in understanding of the Scriptures, in walk nearest the Sinless Example,
ever find another mission for him which is not an arraignment of the love of his
Father. "Then, if it be true, as we all say, not one denying it, that our Lord
brought to his mission the perfected wisdom of his Father, how could he have
departed from the world leaving the way of salvation unmarked and unlighted? Or,
sent expressly to show us the way, himself the appointed guide, what welcome can
we suppose he would have had from his Father in Heaven, if he had given the duty
over to the angels? Or, knowing the deceitfulness of the human heart, and its
weakness and liability to temptation, whence the necessity for his coming to us,
what if he had given the duty over to men, so much lower than the angels, and
then gone away? Rather than such a thought of him, let us believe, if the way
had been along the land, he would have planted it with inscribed hills; if over
the seas, he would have sown the seas with pillars of direction above the waves;
if through the air, he would have made it a path effulgent with suns numerous as
the stars. 'I am the Way,' he said--meaning the way lies through me; and you may
come to me in the place I go to prepare for you, if only you believe in God and
me. Men and brethren, our Lord was true to his mission, and wise in the wisdom
of his Father." At this the hermit in front of the preacher, uttering a shill
cry, spread his arms abroad, and quivered from head to foot. Many of those near
sprang forward to catch him. "No, leave him alone," cried Sergius, "leave him
alone. The cross he took was heavy of itself; but upon the cross you heaped
conditions without sanction, making a burden of which he was like to die. At
last he sees how easy it is to go to his Master; that he has only to believe in
God and the Master. Leave him with the truth; it was sent to save, not to kill."
The excitement over, Sergius resumed:

"I come now, brethren, to the cause of your affliction. I will show it to you;
that is to say, I will show you why you are divided amongst yourselves, and
resort to cruelty one unto another; as if murder would help either side of the
quarrel. I will show your disputes do not come from anything said or done by our
Lord, whose almost last prayer was that all who believed in him might be made
perfect in one. "It is well known to you that our Lord did not found a Church
during his life on earth, but gave authority for it to his Apostles. It is known
to you also that what his Apostles founded was but a community: for such is the
description: 'And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man
had need.' [Footnote: Acts ii. 44, 45.] And again: 'And the multitude of them
that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them that
ought of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things
common.' 'Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were
possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things
that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was
made unto every man according as he had need.' [Footnote: Acts iv. 32, 34, 35.]
But in time this community became known as the Church; and there was nothing of
it except our Lord's Creed, in definition of the Faith, and two ordinances for
the Church--Baptism for the remission of sins, that the baptized might receive
the Comforter, and the Sacraments, that believers, often as they partook of the
Body and Blood of Christ, might be reminded of him. "Lo, now! In the space of
three generations this Church, based upon this simple Creed, became a power from
Alexandria to Lodinum; and though kings banded to tread it out; though day and
night the smell of the blood of the righteous spilt by them was an offence to
God; though there was no ingenuity more amongst men except to devise methods for
the torture of the steadfast--still the Church grew; and if you dig deep enough
for the reasons of its triumphant resistance, these are they: there was Divine
Life in the Creed, and the Community was perfect in one; insomuch that the
brethren quarrelled not among themselves; neither was there jealousy, envy or
rivalry among them; neither did they dispute about immaterial things, such as
which was the right mode of baptism, or whether the bread should be leavened or
unleavened, or whence the Holy Ghost proceeded, whether from the Father or from
the Father and Son together; neither did the elders preach for a price, nor
forsake a poor flock for a rich one that their salaries might be increased, nor
engage in building costly tabernacles for the sweets of vanity in tall spires;
neither did any study the Scriptures seeking a text, or a form, or an
observance, on which to go out and draw from the life of the old Community that
they might set up a new one; and in their houses of God there were never places
for the men and yet other separate places for the women of the congregation;
neither did a supplicant for the mercy of God look first at the garments of the
neighbor next him lest the mercy might lose a virtue because of a patch or a
tatter. The Creed was too plain for quibble or dispute; and there was no
ambition in the Church except who should best glorify Christ by living most
obedient to his commands. Thence came the perfection of unity in faith and
works; and all went well with the Primitive Church of the Apostles; and the
Creed was like unto the white horse seen by the seer of the final visions, and
the Church was like him who sat upon the horse, with a bow in his hand, unto
whom a crown was given; and he went forth conquering and to conquer." Here the
audience was stirred uncontrollably; many fell forward upon their faces; others
wept, and the nave resounded with rejoicing. In one quarter alone there was a
hasty drawing together of men with frowning brows, and that was where the
gonfalon of the Brotherhood of the St. James' was planted. The Hegumen, in the
midst of the group, talked excitedly, though in a low tone. "I will not ask,
brethren," Sergius said, in continuance, "if this account of the Primitive
Church be true; you all do know it true; yet I will ask if one of you holds that
the offending of which you would repent--the anger, and bitter words, and the
blows--was moved by anything in our Lord's Creed, let him arise, before the
Presence is withdrawn, and say that he thinks. These, lending their ears, will
hear him, and so will God. What, will not one arise? "It is not necessary that I
remind you to what your silence commits you. Rather suffer me to ask next, which
of you will arise and declare, our Lord his witness, that the Church of his
present adherence is the same Church the Apostles founded? You have minds,
think; tongues, speak." There was not so much as a rustle on the floor. "It was
well, brethren, that you kept silence; for, if one had said his Church was the
same Church the Apostles founded, how could he have absolved himself of the fact
that there are nowhere two parties each claiming to be of the only true Church?
Or did he assert both claimants to be of the same Church, and it the only true
one, then why the refusal to partake of the Sacraments? Why a division amongst
them at all? Have you not heard the aforetime saying, 'Every kingdom divided
against itself is brought to desolation'? "Men and brethren, let no man go hence
thinking his Church, whichever it be, is the Church of the Apostles. If he look
for the community which was the law of the old brotherhood, his search will be
vain. If he look for the unity, offspring of our Lord's last prayer, lo!
jealousies, hates, revilements, blows instead. No, your Creed is of men, not
Christ, and the semblance of Christ in it is a delusion and a snare." At this
the gonfalon of the St. James' was suddenly lifted up, and borne forward to
within a few feet of the gate, and the Hegumen, standing in front of it, cried
out:

"Serenity, the preacher is a heretic! I denounce"--

He could get no further; the multitude sprang to foot howling. The Princess
Irene, and the women in the galleries, also arose, she pale and trembling. Peril
to Sergius had not occurred to her when she gave him the signal to speak. The
calmness and resignation with which he looked at his accuser reminded her of his
Master before Pilate, and taking seat again, she prayed for him, and the cause
he was pleading. At length, the Patriarch, waving his hand, said:

"Brethren, it may be Sergius, to whom we have been listening, has his impulse of
speech from the Spirit, even as he has declared. Let us be patient and hear
him." Turning to Sergius, he bade him proceed. "The three hundred Bishops and
Presbyters from whom you have your Creeds, [Footnote: _Encyclopedia Brit.,_ VI.
560.] O men and brethren"--so the preacher continued--"took the Two Articles
from our Lord's Creed, and then they added others. Thus, which of you can find a
text of our Lord treating of his procession from the substance of God? Again, in
what passage has our Lord required belief in the personage of the Holy Ghost as
an article of faith essential to salvation? [Footnote: Four Creeds are at
present used in the Roman Catholic Church; viz., the Apostles' Creed, the
Nicene, the Athanasian, that of Pius IV--ADD. and AR., _Catholic Dictionary,_
232.] 'I am the Way,' said our Lord. 'No,' say the three hundred, 'we are the
way; and would you be saved, you must believe in us not less than in God and his
Son.'" The auditors a moment before so fierce, even the Hegumen, gazed at the
preacher in a kind of awe; and there was no lessening of effect when his manner
underwent a change, his head slightly drooping and his voice plaintive. "The
Spirit by whose support and urgency I have dared address you, brethren,
admonishes me that my task is nearly finished." He took hold of the corner of
the _Panagia;_ so all in view were more than ever impressed with his likeness to
their ideal of the Blessed Master. "The urgency seemed to me on account of your
offence to the Real Presence so graciously in our midst; for truly when we are
in the depths of penitence it is our nature to listen more kindly to what is
imparted for our good; wherefore, as you have minds, I beg you to think. If our
Lord did indeed leave a Creed containing the all in all for our salvation, what
meant he if not that it should stand in saving purity until he came again in the
glory of his going? And if he so intended, and yet uninspired men have added
other Articles to the simple faith he asked of us, making it so much the harder
for us to go to him in the place he has prepared for us, are they not usurpers?
And are not the Articles which they have imposed to be passed by us as
stratagems dangerous to our souls? "Again. The excellence of our Lord's Creed by
which it may be always known when in question, its wisdom superior to the
devices of men, is that it permits us to differ about matters outside of the
faith without weakening our relations to the Blessed Master or imperilling our
lot in his promises. Such matters, for example, as works, which are but
evidences of faith and forms of worship, and the administration of the two
ordinances of the Church, and God and his origin, and whether Heaven be here or
there, or like unto this or that. For truly our Lord knew us, and that it was
our nature to deal in subtleties and speculate of things not intended we should
know during this life; the thought of our minds being restless and always
running, like the waters of a river on their way to the sea. "Again, brethren.
If the Church of the Apostles brought peace to its members, so that they dwelt
together, no one of them lacking or in need, do not your experiences of to-day
teach you wherein your Churches, being those built upon the Creed of the three
hundred Bishops, are unlike it? Moreover, see you not if now you have several
Churches, some amongst you, the carping and ambitious, will go out and in turn
set up new Confessions of Faith, and at length so fill the earth with rival
Churches that religion will become a burden to the poor and a byword with fools
who delight in saying there is no God? In a village, how much better one House
of God, with one elder for its service, and always open, than five or ten, each
with a preacher for a price, and closed from Sabbath to Sabbath? For that there
must be discipline to keep the faithful together, and to carry on the holy war
against sin and its strongholds and captains, how much better one Church in the
strength of unity than a hundred diversely named and divided against themselves?
"The Revelator, even that John who while in the Spirit was bidden. 'Write the
things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which
shall be hereafter,' wrote, and at the end of his book set a warning: 'If any
man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are
written in this book.' I cannot see, brethren, wherein that crime is greater
than the addition of Articles to our Lord's Creed; nor do I know any who have
more reason to be afraid of those threatened plagues than the priest or preacher
who from pride or ambition, or dread of losing his place or living, shall
wilfully stand in the way of a return to the Church of the Apostles and its
unity. Forasmuch as I also know what penitential life is, and how your minds
engage themselves in the solitude of your cells, I give you whereof to think.
Men and brethren, peace unto you all!" The hermit knelt to the preacher, and
kissed his hand, sobbing the while; the auditors stared at each other
doubtfully; but the Hegumen's time was come. Advancing to the gate, he said:

"This man, O Serenity, is ours by right of fraternity. In thy hearing he hath
defamed the Creed which is the rock the Fathers chose for the foundation of our
most holy Church. He hath even essayed to make a Creed of his own, and present
it for our acceptance--thy acceptance, O Serenity, and that of His Majesty, the
only Christian Emperor, as well as ours. And for those things, and because never
before in the history of our ancient and most notable Brotherhood hath there
been an instance of heresy so much as in thought, we demand the custody of this
apostate for trial and judgment. Give him to us to do with." The Patriarch
clasped his hands, and, shaking like a man struck with palsy, turned his eyes
upward as if asking counsel of Heaven. His doubt and hesitation were obvious;
and neighbor heard his neighbor's heart beat; so did silence once more possess
itself of the great auditorium. The Princess Irene arose white with fear, and
strove to catch the Emperor's attention; but he, too, was in the bonds waiting
on the Patriarch. Then from his place behind the Hegumen, Sergius spoke:

"Let not your heart be troubled, O Serenity. Give me to my Brotherhood. If I am
wrong, I deserve to die; but if I have spoken as the Spirit directed me, God is
powerful to save. I am not afraid of the trial." The Patriarch gazed at him, his
withered cheeks glistening with tears; still he hesitated. "Suffer me, O
Serenity!" --thus Sergius again--"I would that thy conscience may never be
disquieted on my account; and now I ask not that thou give me to my Brotherhood
--I will go with them freely and of my own accord." Speaking then to the
Hegumen, he said: "No more, I pray. See, I am ready to be taken as thou wilt."
The Hegumen gave him in charge of the brethren; and at his signal, the gonfalon
was raised and carried through the concourse, and out of one of the doors,
followed closely by the Brotherhood. At the moment of starting, Sergius lifted
his hands, and shouted so as to be heard above the confusion: "Bear witness, O
Serenity--and thou, O Emperor! That no man may judge me an apostate, hear my
confession: I believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son." Many of those present
remained and partook of the Sacraments; far the greater number hurried away, and
it was not long until the house was vacated. CHAPTER IX

COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED

Extract:

"God is God, and Mahomet is his Prophet! May they keep my Lord in health, and
help him to all his heart's desires! ... It is now three days since my eyes were
gladdened by the presence of the Princess Irene; yet I have been duteously
regular in my calls at her house. To my inquiries, her domestic has returned the
same answer: 'The Princess is in her chapel praying. She is sadly disturbed in
mind, and excuses herself to every one.' Knowing this information will excite my
Lord's apprehension, I beg him to accept the explanation of her ailments which I
think most probable.... My Lord will gratify me by graciously referring to the
account of the special meeting in Sancta Sophia which I had the honor to forward
the evening of the day of its occurrence. The conjecture there advanced that the
celebration of the Sacrament in highest form was a stratagem of the Patriarch's
looking to a reconciliation of the factions, has been confirmed; and more--it
has proved a failure. Its effect has inflamed the fanaticism of the Greek party
as never before. Notaras, moved doubtless by Gennadius, induced them to suspect
His Majesty and the Patriarch of conniving at the wonderful sermon of the monk
Sergius; and, as the best rebuke in their power, the Brotherhood of the St.
James' erected a Tribunal of Judgment in their monastery last night, and placed
the preacher on trial. He defended himself, and drove them to admit his points;
that their Church is not the Primitive Church of the Apostles, and that their
Creed is an unwarranted enlargement of the two Articles of Faith left by Jesus
Christ for the salvation of the world. Yet they pronounced him an apostate and a
heretic of incendiary purpose, and condemned him to the old lion in the
Cynegion, Tamerlane, famous these many years as a man-eater.... My Lord should
also know of the rumor in the city which attributes the Creed of Nine Words--'I
believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son'--to the Princess Irene; and her
action would seem to justify the story. Directly the meeting in Sancta Sophia
was over, she hastened to the Palace, and entreated His Majesty to save the monk
from his brethren. My Lord may well think the Emperor disposed to grant her
prayer; his feeling for her is warmer than friendship. The gossips say he at one
time proposed marriage to her. At all events, being a tender-hearted man--too
tender indeed for his high position--it is easy imagining how such unparalleled
beauty in tearful distress must have moved him. Unhappily the political
situation holds him as in a vice. The Church is almost solidly against him;
while of the Brotherhoods this one of the St. James' has been his only stanch
adherent. What shall the poor man do? If he saves the preacher, he is himself
lost. It appears now she has been brought to understand he cannot interfere.
Thrown thus upon the mercy of Heaven, she has buried herself in her oratory. Oh,
the full Moon of full Moons! And alas! that she should ever be overcast by a
cloud, though it be not heavier than the just-risen morning mist. My Lord--or
Allah must come quickly! *       *       *       *       *

"O my Lord! In duty again and always!... Ali did not come yesterday. I suppose
the high winds were too unfriendly. So the despatch of that date remained on my
hands; and I now open it, and include a supplement.... This morning as usual I
rode to the Princess' door. The servant gave me the same report--his mistress
was not receiving. It befalls therefore that my Lord must take refuge in his
work or in dreams of her--and may I lay a suggestion at his feet, I advise the
latter, for truly, if the world is a garden, she is its Queen of Roses.... For
the sake of the love my Lord bears the Princess, and the love I bear my Lord, I
did not sleep last night, being haunted with thinking how I could be of service
to her. What is the use of strength and skill in arms if I cannot turn them to
account in her behalf as my Lord would have me?... On my way to the Princess', I
was told that the monk, who is the occasion of her sorrow, his sentence being on
her conscience, is to be turned in with the lion to-morrow. As I rode away from
her house in desperate strait, not having it in power to tell my Lord anything
of her, it occurred to me to go see the Cynegion, where the judgment is to be
publicly executed. What if the Most Merciful should offer me an opportunity to
do the unhappy Princess something helpful? If I shrank from the lion, when
killing it would save her a grief, my Lord would never forgive me ... . Here is
a description of the Cynegion: The northwest wall of the city drops from the
height of Blacherne into a valley next the harbor or Golden Horn, near which it
meets the wall coming from the east. Right in the angle formed by the
intersection of the walls there is a gate, low, very strong, and always closely
guarded. Passing the gate, I found myself in an enclosed field, the city wall on
the east, wooded hills south, and the harbor north. How far the enclosure
extends up the shore of the harbor, I cannot say exactly--possibly a half or
three quarters of a mile. The surface is level and grassy. Roads wind in and out
of clumps of selected shrubbery, with here and there an oak tree. Kiosk-looking
houses, generally red painted, are frequent, some with roofs, some without. Upon
examination I discovered the houses were for the keeping of animals and birds.
In one there was an exhibition of fish and reptiles. But much the largest
structure, called the Gallery, is situated nearly in the centre of the
enclosure; and it astonished me with an interior in general arrangement like a
Greek theatre, except it is entirely circular and without a stage division.
There is an arena, like a sanded floor, apparently fifty paces in diameter,
bounded by a brick wall eighteen or twenty feet in height, and from the top of
the wall seats rise one above another for the accommodation of common people;
while for the Emperor I noticed a covered stand over on the eastern side. The
wall of the arena is broken at regular intervals by doors heavily barred,
leading into chambers anciently dens for ferocious animals, but at present
prisons for criminals of desperate character. There are also a number of gates,
one under the grand stand, the others forming northern, southern and eastern
entrances. From this, I am sure my Lord can, if he cares to, draught the
Cynegion, literally the Menagerie, comprehending the whole enclosure, and the
arena in the middle of it, where the monk will to-morrow expiate his heresy.
Formerly combats in the nature of wagers of battle were appointed for the place,
and beasts were pitted against each other; but now the only bloody amusement
permitted in it is when a criminal or an offender against God is given to the
lion. On such occasions, they tell me, the open seats and grand stands are
crowded to their utmost capacities.... If the description is tedious, I hope my
Lord's pardon, for besides wishing to give him an idea of the scene of the
execution to-morrow, I thought to serve him in the day he is looking forward to
with so much interest, when the locality will have to be considered with a view
to military approach. In furtherance of the latter object, I beg to put my Lord
in possession of the accompanying diagram of the Cynegion, observing
particularly its relation to the city; by attaching it to the drawings
heretofore sent him, he will be enabled to make a complete map of the country
adjacent to the landward wall.... Ali has just come in. As I supposed, he was
detained by the high winds. His mullets are perfection. With them he brings a
young sword-fish yet alive. I look at the mess, and grieve that I cannot send a
portion to my Lord for his breakfast. However, a few days now, and he will come
to his own; the sea with its fish, and the land and all that belongs to it. The
child of destiny can afford to wait." CHAPTER X

SERGIUS TO THE LION

About ten o'clock the day after the date of Count Corti's last despatch--ten of
the morning--a woman appeared on the landing in front of Port St. Peter, and
applied to a boatman for passage to the Cynegion. She was thickly veiled, and
wore an every-day overcloak of brown stuff closely buttoned from her throat
down. Her hands were gloved, and her feet coarsely shod. In a word, her
appearance was that of a female of the middle class, poor but respectable. The
landing was thronged at the time. It seemed everybody wanted to get to the
menagerie at once. Boatmen were not lacking. Their craft, of all known models,
lay in solid block yards out, waiting turns to get in; and while they waited,
the lusty, half-naked fellows flirted their oars, quarrelled with each other in
good nature, Greek-like, and yelled volleys at the slow bargain makers whose
turns had arrived. Twice the woman asked if she could have a seat. "How many of
you are there?" she was asked in reply. "I am alone." "You want the boat alone?"
"Yes." "Well, that can't be. I have seats for several--and wife and four babies
at home told me to make the most I could out of them. It has been some time
since one has tried to look old Tamerlane in the eye, thinking to scare him out
of his dinner. The game used to be common; it's not so now." "But I will pay you
for all the seats." "Full five?" "Yes." "In advance?" "Yes." "Jump in, then--and
get out your money--fifty-five noumias--while I push through these howling
water-dogs." By the time the boat was clear of the pack, truly enough the
passenger was with the fare in hand. "Look," she said, "here is a bezant." At
sight of the gold piece, the man's countenance darkened, and he stopped rowing.
"I can't change that. You might as well have no money at all." "Friend," she
returned, "row me swiftly to the first gate of the Cynegion, and the piece is
yours." "By my blessed patron! I'll make you think you are on a bird, and that
these oars are wings. Sit in the middle--that will do. Now!" The fellow was
stout, skilful, and in earnest. In a trice he was under headway, going at racing
speed. The boats in the harbor were moving in two currents, one up, the other
down; and it was noticeable those in the first were laden with passengers, those
of the latter empty. Evidently the interest was at the further end of the line,
and the day a holiday to the two cities, Byzantium and Galata. Yet of the
attractions on the water and the shores, the woman took no heed; she said never
a word after the start; but sat with head bowed, and her face buried in her
hands. Occasionally, if the boatman had not been so intent on earning the gold
piece, he might have heard her sob. For some reason, the day was not a holiday
to her. "We are nearly there," he at length said. Without lifting the veil, she
glanced at a low wall on the left-hand shore, then at a landing, shaky from age
and neglect, in front of a gate in the wall; and seeing it densely blockaded,
she spoke:

"Please put me ashore here. I have no time to lose." The bank was soft and
steep. "You cannot make it." "I can if you will give me your oar for a step." "I
will." In a few minutes she was on land. Pausing then to toss the gold piece to
the boatman, she heard his thanks, and started hastily for the gate. Within the
Cynegion, she fell in with some persons walking rapidly, and talking of the
coming event as if it were a comedy. "He is a Russian, you say?" "Yes, and what
is strange, he is the very man who got the Prince of India's negro"--

"The giant?" "Yes--who got him to drown that fine young fellow Demedes." "Where
is the negro now?" "In a cell here." "Why didn't they give him to the lion?"
"Oh, he had a friend--the Princess Irene." "What is to be done with him?"
"Afterwhile, when the affair of the cistern is forgotten, he will be given a
purse, and set free." "Pity! For what sport to have seen him in front of the old
Tartar!" "Yes, he's a fighter." In the midst of this conversation, the party
came in sight of the central building, externally a series of arches supporting
a deep cornice handsomely balustraded, and called the Gallery. "Here we are!--
But see the people on the top! I was afraid we would be too late. Let us hurry."
"Which gate?" "The western--it's the nearest." "Can't we get in under the grand
stand?" "No, it's guarded." These loquacious persons turned off to make the
western gate; but the woman in brown kept on, and ere long was brought to the
grand stand on the north. An arched tunnel, amply wide, ran under it, with a
gate at the further end admitting directly to the arena. A soldier of the
foreign legion held the mouth of the tunnel. "Good friend," she began, in a low,
beseeching tone, "is the heretic who is to suffer here yet?" "He was brought out
last night." "Poor man! I am a friend of his"--her voice trembled--"may I see
him?" "My orders are to admit no one--and I do not know which cell he is in."
The supplicant, sobbing and wringing her hands, stood awhile silent. Then a
roar, very deep and hoarse, apparently from the arena, startled her and she
trembled. "Tamerlane!" said the soldier. "O God!" she exclaimed. "Is the lion
turned in already?" "Not yet. He is in his den. They have not fed him for three
days." She stayed her agitation, and asked: "What are your orders?" "Not to
admit any one." "To the cells?" "The cells, and the arena also." "Oh, I see! You
can let me stand at the gate yonder?" "Well--yes. But if you are the monk's
friend, why do you want to see him die?" She made no reply, but took from a
pocket a bezant, and contrived to throw its yellow gleam in the sentinel's eyes.
"Is the gate locked?" "No, it is barred on this side." "Does it open into the
arena?" "Yes." "I do not ask you to violate your orders," she continued, calmly;
"only let me go to the gate, and see the man when he is brought out." She
offered him the money, and he took it, saying: "Very well. I can see no harm in
that. Go." The gate in question was open barred, and permitted a view of nearly
the whole circular interior. The spectacle presented was so startling she caught
one of the bars for support. Throwing back the veil, she looked, breathing sighs
which were almost gasps. The arena was clear, and thickly strewn with wet sand.
There were the walls shutting it in, like a pit, and on top of them, on the
ascending seats back to the last one--was it a cloud she beheld? A second
glance, and she recognized the body of spectators, men, women and children,
compacted against the sky. How many of them there were! Thousands and thousands!
She clasped her hands, and prayed. Twelve o'clock was the hour for the
expiation. Waiting so wearily there at the gate--praying, sighing, weeping by
turns--the woman was soon forgotten by the sentinel. She had bought his pity. In
his eyes she was only a lover of the doomed monk. An hour passed thus. If the
soldier's theory were correct, if she were indeed a poor love-lorn creature come
to steal a last look at the unfortunate, she eked small comfort from her study
of the cloud of humanity on the benches. Their jollity, their frequent laughter
and hand-clapping reached her in her retreat. "Merciful God!" she kept crying.
"Are these beings indeed in thy likeness?" In a moment of wandering thought, she
gave attention to the fastenings of the gate, and observed the ends of the bar
across it rested in double iron sockets on the side toward her; to pass it, she
had only to raise the bar clear of the socket and push. Afterwhile the door of a
chamber nearly opposite her opened, and a man stood in the aperture. He was very
tall, gigantic even; and apparently surprised by what he beheld, he stepped out
to look at the benches, whereat the light fell upon him and she saw he was
black. His appearance called for a roar of groans, and he retired, closing the
door behind him. Then there was an answering roar from a cell near by at her
left. The occupants of the benches applauded long and merrily, crying,
"Tamerlane! Tamerlane!" The woman shrank back terrified. A little later another
man entered the arena, from the western gate. Going to the centre he looked
carefully around him; as if content with the inspection, he went next to a cell
and knocked. Two persons responded by coming out of the door; one an armed
guardsman, the other a monk. The latter wore a hat of clerical style, and a
black gown dropping to his bare feet, its sleeves of immoderate length
completely muffling his hands. Instantly the concourse on the benches arose.
There was no shouting--one might have supposed them all suddenly seized with
shuddering sympathy. But directly a word began passing from mouth to mouth; at
first, it was scarcely more than a murmur; soon it was a byname on every tongue:

"The heretic! The heretic!" The monk was Sergius. His guard conducted him to the
centre of the field, and, taking off his hat, left him there. In going he let
his gauntlet fall. Sergius picked it up, and gave it to him; then calm,
resigned, fearless, he turned to the east, rested his hands on his breast palm
to palm, closed his eyes, and raised his face. He may have had a hope of rescue
in reserve; certain it is, they who saw him, taller of his long gown, his hair
on his shoulders and down his back, his head upturned, the sunlight a radiant
imprint on his forehead, and wanting only a nimbus to be the Christ in
apparition, ceased jeering him; it seemed to them that in a moment, without
effort, he had withdrawn his thoughts from this world, and surrendered himself.
They could see his lips move; but what they supposed his last prayer was only a
quiet recitation: "I believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son." The guard
withdrawn, three sharp mots of a trumpet rang out from the stand. A door at the
left of the tunnel gate was then slowly raised; whereupon a lion stalked out of
the darkened depths, and stopped on the edge of the den thus exposed, winking to
accustom his eyes to the day-splendor. He lingered there very leisurely, turning
his ponderous head from right to left and up and down, like a prisoner
questioning if he were indeed at liberty. Having viewed the sky and the benches,
and filled his deep chest with ample draughts of fresh air, suddenly Tamerlane
noticed the monk. The head rose higher, the ears erected, and, snuffing like a
hound, he fretted his shaggy mane; his yellow eyes changed to coals alive, and
he growled and lashed his sides with his tail. A majestic figure was he now.
"What is it?" he appeared asking himself. "Prey or combat?" Still in a maze, he
stepped out into the arena, and shrinking close to the sand, inched forward
creeping toward the object of his wonder. The spectators had opportunity to
measure him, and drink their fill of terror. The monk was a goodly specimen of
manhood, young, tall, strong; but a fig for his chances once this enemy struck
him or set its teeth in his flesh! An ox could not stand the momentum of that
bulk of bone and brawn. It were vain telling how many--not all of them women and
children--furtively studied the height of the wall enclosing the pit to make
sure of their own safety upon the seats. Sergius meantime remained in prayer and
recitation; he was prepared for the attack, but as a non-resistant; if indeed he
thought of battle, he was not merely unarmed--the sleeves of his gown deprived
him of the use of his hands. From the man to the lion, from the lion to the man,
the multitude turned shivering, unable nevertheless to look away. Presently the
lion stopped, whined, and behaved uneasily. Was he afraid? Such was the
appearance when he began trotting around at the base of the wall, halting before
the gates, and seeking an escape. Under the urgency, whatever it was, from the
trot he broke into a gallop, without so much as a glance at the monk. A murmur
descended from the benches. It was the people recovering from their horror, and
impatient. Ere long they became positive in expression; in dread doubtless of
losing the catastrophe of the show, they yelled at the cowardly beast. In the
height of this tempest, the gate of the tunnel under the grand stand opened
quickly, and was as quickly shut. Death brings no deeper hush than fell upon the
assemblage then. A woman was crossing the sand toward the monk! Round sped the
lion, forward she went! Two victims! Well worth the monster's hunger through the
three days to be so banqueted on the fourth! There are no laws of behavior for
such situations. Impulse and instinct rush in and take possession. While the
thousands held their breath, they were all quickened to know who the intruder
was. She was robed in white, was bareheaded and barefooted. The dress, the
action, the seraphic face were not infrequent on the water, and especially in
the churches; recognition was instantaneous, and through the eager crowded ranks
the whisper flew:

"God o' Mercy! It is the Princess--the Princess Irene!" Strong men covered their
eyes, women fainted. The grand stand had been given up to the St. James', and
they and their intimates filled it from the top seat to the bottom; and now
directly the identity became assured, toward them, or rather to the Hegumen
conspicuous in their midst, innumerable arms were outstretched, seconding the
cry: "Save her! Save her! Let the lion be killed!" Easier said than done.
Crediting the Brotherhood with lingering sparks of humanity, the game was beyond
their interference. The brute was lord. Who dared go in and confront him? About
this time, the black man, of whom we have spoken, looked out of his cell again.
To him the pleading arms were turned. He saw the monk, the Princess, and the
lion making its furious circuit--saw them and retreated, but a moment after
reappeared, attired in the savageries which were his delight. In the waist-belt
he had a short sword, and over his left shoulder a roll like a fisherman's net.
And now he did not retreat. The Princess reached Sergius safely, and placing a
hand on his arm, brought him back, as it were, to life and the situation. "Fly,
little mother--by the way you came--fly!" he cried, in mighty anguish. "O God!
it is too late--too late." Wringing his hands, he gave way to tears. "No, I will
not fly. Did I not bring you to this? Let death come to us both. Better the
quick work of the lion than the slow torture of conscience. I will not fly! We
will die together. I too believe in God and Jesus Christ his Son." She reached
up, and rested her hand upon his shoulder. The repetition of the Creed, and her
companionship restored his courage, and smiling, despite the tears on his
cheeks, he said:

"Very well, little mother. The army of the martyrs will receive us, and the dear
Lord is at his mansion door to let us in." The lion now ceased galloping.
Stopping over in the west quarter of the field, he turned his big burning eyes
on the two thus resigning themselves, and crouching, put himself in motion
toward them; his mane all on end; his jaws agape, their white armature whiter of
the crimson tongue lolling adrip below the lips. He had given up escape, and,
his curiosity sated, was bent upon his prey. The charge of cowardice had been
premature. The near thunder of his roaring was exultant and awful. There was
great ease of heart to the people when Nilo--for he it was--taking position
between the devoted pair and their enemy, shook the net from his shoulder, and
proceeded to give an example of his practice with lions in the jungles of Kash-
Cush. Keeping the brute steadily eye to eye, he managed so that while retaining
the leaden balls tied to its disengaged corners one in each hand, the net was
presently in an extended roll on the ground before him. Leaning forward then,
his hands bent inwardly knuckle to knuckle at his breast, his right foot
advanced, the left behind the right ready to carry him by a step left aside, he
waited the attack--to the beholders, a figure in shining ebony, giantesque in
proportions, Phidian in grace. Tamerlane stopped. What new wonder was this? And
while making the study, he settled flat on the sand, and sunk his roaring into
uneasy whines and growls. By this time every one looking on understood Nilo's
intent--that he meant to bide the lion's leap, and catch and entangle him in the
net. What nerve and nicety of calculation--what certainty of eye--what knowledge
of the savage nature dealt with--what mastery of self, limb and soul were
required for the feat! Just at this crisis there was a tumult in the grand
stand. Those who turned that way saw a man in glistening armor pushing through
the brethren there in most unceremonious sort. In haste to reach the front, he
stepped from bench to bench, knocking the gowned Churchmen right and left as if
they were but so many lay figures. On the edge of the wall, he tossed his sword
and shield into the arena, and next instant leaped after them. Before
astonishment was spent, before the dull of faculties could comprehend the
intruder, before minds could be made up to so much as yell, he had fitted the
shield to his arm, snatched up the sword, and run to the point of danger. There,
with quick understanding of the negro's strategy, he took place behind him, but
in front of the Princess and the monk. His agility, cumbered though he was, his
amazing spirit, together with the thought that the fair woman had yet another
champion over whom the lion must go ere reaching her, wrought the whole
multitude into ecstasy. They sprang upon the benches, and their shouting was
impossible of interpretation except as an indication of a complete revulsion of
feeling. In fact, many who but a little before had cheered the lion or cursed
him for cowardice now prayed aloud for his victims. The noise was not without
effect on the veteran Tamerlane. He surveyed the benches haughtily once, then
set forward again, intent on Nilo. The movement, in its sinuous, flexile
gliding, resembled somewhat a serpent's crawl. And now he neither roared nor
growled. The lolling tongue dragged the sand; the beating of the tail was like
pounding with a flail; the mane all erect trebly enlarged the head; and the eyes
were like live coals in a burning bush. The people hushed. Nilo stood firm;
thunder could as easily have diverted a statue; and behind him, not less
steadfast and watchful, Count Corti kept guard. Thirty feet away--twenty-five--
twenty--then the great beast stopped, collected himself, and with an
indescribable roar launched clear of the ground. Up, at the same instant, and
forward on divergent lines, went the leaden balls; the netting they dragged
after them had the appearance of yellow spray blown suddenly in the air. When
the monster touched the sand again, he was completely enveloped. The struggle
which ensued--the gnashing of teeth, the bellowing, the rolling and blind
tossing and pitching, the labor with the mighty limbs, the snapping of the net,
the burrowing into the sand, the further and more inextricable entanglement of
the enraged brute may be left to imagination. Almost before the spectators
realized the altered condition, Nilo was stabbing him with the short sword. The
well-directed steel at length accomplished the work, and the pride of the
Cynegion lay still in the bloody tangle--then the benches found voice. Amidst
the uproar Count Corti went to Nilo. "Who art thou?" he asked, in admiration.
The King smiled, and signified his inability to hear or speak. Whereupon the
Count led him to the Princess. "Take heart, fair saint," he said. "The lion is
dead, and thou art safe." She scarcely heard him. He dropped upon his knee. "The
lion is dead, O Princess, and here is the hand which slew him--here thy
rescuer." She looked her gratitude to Nilo--speak she could not. "And thou,
too," the Count continued, to the monk, "must have thanks for him." Sergius
replied: "I give thee thanks, Nilo--and thou, noble Italian--I am only a little
less obliged to thee--thou wast ready with thy sword." He paused, glanced at the
grand stand, and went on: "It is plain to me, Count Corti, that thou thinkest my
trial happily ended. The beast is dead truly; but yonder are some not less
thirsty for blood. It is for them to say what I must further endure. I am still
the heretic they adjudged me. Do thou therefore banish me from thy generous
mind; then thou canst give it entirely to her who is most in need of it. Remove
the Princess--find a chair for her, and leave me to God." "What further can they
do?" asked the Count. "Heaven hath decided the trial in thy favor. Have they
another lion?" The propriety of the monk's suggestion was obvious; it was not
becoming for the Princess to remain in the public eye; besides, under reaction
of spirit, she was suffering. "Have they another lion?" the Count repeated.
Anxious as he was to assist the Princess, he was not less anxious, if there was
further combat, to take part in it. The Count was essentially a fighting man.
The open door of Nilo's cell speedily attracted his attention. "Help me, sir
monk. Yonder is a refuge for the Princess. Let us place her in safety. I will
return, and stay with thee. If the reverend Christians, thy brethren in the
grand stand, are not content, by Allah"--he checked himself--"their cruelty
would turn the stomach of a Mohammedan." A few minutes, and she was comfortably
housed in the cell. "Now, go to thy place; I will send for a chair, and rejoin
thee." At the tunnel gate, the Count was met by a number of the St. James', and
he forgot his errand. "We have come," said one of them to Sergius, "to renew thy
arrest." "Be it so," Sergius replied; "lead on." But Count Corti strode forward.
"By whose authority is this arrest renewed?" he demanded. "Our Hegumen hath so
ordered." "It shall not be--no, by the Mother of your Christ, it shall not be
unless you bring me the written word of His Majesty making it lawful." "The
Hegumen"--

"I have said it, and I carry a sword"--the Count struck the hilt of the weapon
with his mailed hand, so the clang was heard on the benches. "I have said it,
and my sword says it. Go, tell thy Hegumen." Then Sergius spoke:

"I pray you interfere not. The Heavenly Father who saved me this once is
powerful to save me often." "Have done, sir monk," the Count returned, with
increasing earnestness. "Did I not hear thee say the same in thy holy Sancta
Sophia, in such wise that these deserved to cast themselves at thy feet?
Instead, lo! the lion there. And for the truth, which is the soul of the world
as God is its Maker--the Truth and the Maker being the same--it is not interest
in thee alone which moves me. She, thy patroness yonder, is my motive as well.
There are who will say she followed thee hither being thy lover; but thou
knowest better, and so do I. She came bidden by conscience, and except thou
live, there will be no ease of conscience for her--never. Wherefore, sir monk,
hold thy peace. Thou shalt no more go hence of thine own will than these shall
take thee against it.... Return, ye men of blood--return to him who sent you,
and tell him my sword vouches my word, being so accustomed all these years I
have been a man. Bring they the written word of His Majesty, I will give way.
Let them send to him." The brethren stared at the Count. Had he not been willing
to meet old Tamerlane with that same sword? They turned about, and were near the
tunnel gate going to report, when it was thrown open with great force, and the
Emperor Constantine appeared on horseback, the horse bloody with spurring and
necked with foam. Riding to the Count he drew rein. "Sir Count, where is my
kinswoman?" Corti kissed his hand. "She is safe, Your Majesty--she is in the
cell yonder." The Emperor's eye fell upon the carcass of the lion. "Thou didst
it, Count?" "No--this man did it." The Emperor gazed at Nilo, thus designated,
and taking a golden chain of fine workmanship from his neck, he threw it over
the black King's. At the door of the cell, he dismounted; within, he kissed the
Princess on the forehead. "A chair will be here directly." "And Sergius?" she
asked. "The Brotherhood must forego their claim now. Heaven has signified its
will." He thereupon entered into explanation. The necessity upon him was sore
and trying, else he had never surrendered Sergius to the Brotherhood. He
expected the Hegumen would subject him to discipline--imprisonment or penance.
He had even signed the order placing the lion at service, supposing they meant
merely a trial of the monk's constancy. Withal the proceeding was so offensive
he had refused to witness it. An officer came to the palace with intelligence
which led him to believe the worst was really intended. To stop it summarily, he
had ordered a horse and a guard. Another officer reported the Princess in the
arena with Sergius and the lion. With that His Majesty had come at speed. And he
was grateful to God for the issue. In a short time the sedan was brought, and
the Princess borne to her house. Summoning the Brotherhood from the grand stand,
the Emperor forbade their pursuing Sergius further; the punishment had already
been too severe. The Hegumen protested. Constantine arose in genuine majesty,
and denouncing all clerical usurpations, he declared that for the future he
would be governed by his own judgment in whatever concerned the lives of his
subjects and the welfare of his empire. The declaration was heard by the people
on the benches. By his order, Sergius was conducted to Blacherne, and next day
installed a janitor of the imperial Chapel; thus ending his connection with the
Brotherhood of the St. James'. "Your Majesty," said Count Corti, at the
conclusion of the scene in the arena, "I pray a favor." Constantine, by this
time apprised of the Count's gallantry, bade him speak. "Give me the keeping of
this negro." "If you mean his release from prison, Sir Count, take him. He can
have no more suitable guardian. But it is to be remembered he came to the city
with one calling himself the Prince of India, and if at any time that mysterious
person reappears, the man is to be given back to his master." The Count regarded
Nilo curiously--he was merely recalling the Prince. "Your Majesty is most
gracious. I accept the condition." The captain of the guard, coming to the
tunnel under the grand stand, was addressed by the sentinel there. "See--here
are a dress, a pair of shoes, and a veil. I found them by the gate there." "How
came they there?" "A woman asked me to let her stand by the gate, and see the
heretic when they brought him out, and I gave her permission. She wore these
things." "The Princess Irene!" exclaimed the officer. "Very well. Send them to
me, and I will have her pleasure taken concerning them." The Cynegion speedily
returned to its customary state. But the expiation remained in the public mind a
date to which all manner of events in city life was referred; none of them,
however, of such consequence as the loss to the Emperor of the allegiance of the
St. James'. Thenceforth the Brotherhoods were united against him. BOOK VI

CONSTANTINE

CHAPTER I

THE SWORD OF SOLOMON

The current of our story takes us once more to the White Castle at the mouth of
the Sweet Waters of Asia. It is the twenty-fifth of March, 1452. The weather,
for some days cloudy and tending to the tempestuous, changed at noon, permitting
the sun to show himself in a field of spotless blue. At the edge of the
mountainous steep above Roumeli Hissar, the day-giver lingered in his going
down, as loath to leave the life concentrated in the famous narrows in front of
the old Castle. On the land, there was an army in waiting; therefore the city of
tents and brushwood booths extending from the shore back to the hills, and the
smoke pervading the perspective in every direction. On the water, swinging to
each other, crowding all the shallows of the delta of the little river, reaching
out into the sweep of the Bosphorus, boats open and boats roofed--scows, barges,
galleys oared and galleys with masts--ships--a vast conglomerate raft. About the
camp, and to and fro on the raft, men went and came, like ants in storing time.
Two things, besides the locality, identified them--their turbans, and the
crescent and star in the red field of the flags they displayed. History, it
would appear, takes pleasure in repetition. Full a thousand years before this, a
greater army had encamped on the banks of the same Sweet Waters. Then it was of
Persians; now it is of Turks; and curiously there are no soldiers to be seen,
but only working men, while the flotilla is composed of carrying vessels; here
boats laden with stone; there boats with lime; yonder boats piled high with
timber. At length the sun, drawing the last ravelling of light after it,
disappeared. About that time, the sea gate in front of the Palace of Julian down
at Constantinople opened, and a boat passed out into the Marmora. Five men plied
the oars. Two sat near the stern. These latter were Count Corti and Ali, son of
Abed-din the Faithful. Two hours prior, Ali, with a fresh catch of fish, entered
the gate, and finding no purchaser in the galley, pushed on to the landing, and
thence to the Palace. "O Emir," he said, when admitted to the Count, "the Light
of the World, our Lord Mahommed is arrived." The intelligence seemed to strike
the Count with a sudden ague. "Where is he?" he asked, his voice hollow as from
a closed helmet. Ere the other could answer, he added a saving clause: "May the
love of Allah be to him a staff of life!" "He is at the White Castle with
Mollahs, Pachas, and engineers a host.... What a way they were in, rushing here
and there, like squealing swine, and hunting quarters, if but a crib to lie in
and blow! Shintan take them, beards, boots, and turbans! So have they lived on
fat things, slept on divans of down under hangings of silk, breathed perfumed
airs in crowded harems, Heaven knows if now they are even fit to stop an arrow.
They thought the old Castle of Bajazet-Ilderim another Jehan-Numa. By the
delights of Paradise, O Emir--ha, ha, ha!--it was good to see how little the
Light of the World cared for them! At the Castle, he took in with him for
household the ancient _Gabour_ Ortachi-Khalil and a Prince of India, whom he
calls his Messenger of the Stars; the rest were left to shift for themselves
till their tents arrive. Halting the Incomparables, [Footnote: Janissaries.] out
beyond Roumeli-Hissar, he summoned the Three Tails, [Footnote: Pachas.] nearly
dead from fatigue, having been in the saddle since morning, and rode off with
them fast as his Arab could gallop across the country, and down the long hill
behind Therapia, drawing rein at the gate before the Palace of the Princess
Irene." "The Palace of the Princess Irene," the Count repeated. "What did he
there?" "He dismounted, looked at the brass plate on the gate-post, went in, and
asked if she were at home. Being told she was yet in the city, he said: 'A
message for her to be delivered to-night. Here is a purse to pay for going. Tell
her Aboo-Obeidah, the Singing Sheik'--only the Prophet knows of such a
Sheik--'has been here, bidden by Sultan Mahommed to see if her house had been
respected, and inquire if she has yet her health and happiness.' With that, he
called for his horse, and went through the garden and up to the top of the
promontory; then he returned to Hissar faster than he went to Therapia; and
when, to take boat for the White Castle, he walked down the height, two of the
Three Tails had to be lifted from their saddles, so nearly dead were they." Here
Ali stopped to laugh. "Pardon me, O Emir," he resumed, "if I say last what I
should have said first, it being the marrow of the bone I bring you.... Before
sitting to his pilaf, our Lord Mahommed sent me here. 'Thou knowest to get in
and out of the unbelieving city,' he said. 'Go privily to the Emir Mirza, and
bid him come to me to-night.'" "What now, Ali?" "My Lord was too wise to tell
me." "It is a great honor, Ali. I shall get ready immediately." When the night
was deep enough to veil the departure, the Count seated himself in the fisher's
boat, a great cloak covering his armor. Half a mile below the Sweet Waters the
party was halted. "What is this, Ali?" "The Lord Mahommed's galleys of war are
down from the Black Sea. These are their outlyers." At the side of one of the
vessels, the Count showed the Sultan's signet, and there was no further
interruption. A few words now with respect to Corti. He had become a Christian.
Next, the bewilderment into which the first sight of the Princess Irene had
thrown him instead of passing off had deepened into hopeless love. And farther--
Constantine, a genuine knight himself; in fact more knight than statesman;
delighting in arms, armor, hounds, horses, and martial exercises, including
tournaments, hawking, and hunting, found one abiding regret on his throne--he
could have a favorite but never a comrade. The denial only stimulated the
desire, until finally he concluded to bring the Italian to Court for observation
and trial, his advancement to depend upon the fitness, tact, and capacity he
might develop. One day an order was placed in the Count's hand, directing him to
find quarters at Blacherne. The Count saw the honor intended, and discerned that
acceptance would place him in better position to get information for Mahommed,
but what would the advantage avail if he were hindered in forwarding his budget
promptly? No, the mastership of the gate was of most importance; besides which
the seclusion of the Julian residence was so favorable to the part he was
playing; literally he had no one there to make him afraid. Upon receipt of the
order he called for his horse, and rode to Blacherne, where his argument of the
necessity of keeping the Moslem crew of his galley apart brought about a
compromise. His Majesty would require the Count's presence during the day, but
permit him the nights at Julian. He was also allowed to retain command of the
gate. A few months then found him in Constantine's confidence, the imperial
favorite. Yet more surprising as a coincidence, he actually became to the
Emperor what he had been to Mahommed. He fenced and jousted with him, instructed
him in riding, trained him to sword and bow. Every day during certain hours he
had his new master's life at mercy. With a thrust of sword, stroke of battle-
axe, or flash of an arrow, it was in his power to rid Mahommed of an opponent
concerning whom he wrote: "O my Lord, I think you are his better, yet if ever
you meet him in personal encounter, have a care." But the unexpected now
happened to the Count. He came to have an affection for this second lord which
seriously interfered with his obligations to the first one. Its coming about was
simple. Association with the Greek forced a comparison with the Turk. The
latter's passion was a tide before which the better gifts of God to rulers--
mercy, justice, discrimination, recognition of truth, loyalty, services--were as
willows in the sweep of a wave. Constantine, on the other hand, was thoughtful,
just, merciful, tender-hearted, indisposed to offend or to fancy provocation
intended. The difference between a man with and a man without conscience--
between a king all whose actuations are dominated by religion and a king void of
both conscience and religion--slowly but surely, we say, the difference became
apparent to the Count, and had its inevitable consequences. Such was the Count's
new footing in Blacherne. The changes wrought in his feeling were forwarded more
than he was aware by the standing accorded him in the reception-room of the
Princess Irene. After the affair at the Cynegion he had the delicacy not to push
himself upon the attention of the noble lady. In preference he sent a servant
every morning to inquire after her health. Ere long he was the recipient of an
invitation to come in person; after which his visits increased in frequency.
Going to Blacherne, and coming from it, he stopped at her house, and with every
interview it seemed his passion for her intensified. Now it were not creditable
to the young Princess' discernment to say she was blind to his feeling; yet she
was careful to conceal the discovery from him, and still more careful not to
encourage his hope. She placed the favor shown him to the account of gratitude;
at the same time she admired him, and was deeply interested in the religious
sentiment he was beginning to manifest. In the Count's first audience after the
rescue from the lion, she explained how she came to be drawn to the Cynegion.
This led to detail of her relations with Sergius, concluding with the
declaration: "I gave him the signal to speak in Sancta Sophia, and felt I could
not live if he died the death, sent to it by me." "Princess," the Count replied,
"I heard the monk's sermon in Sancta Sophia, but did not know of your giving the
signal. Has any one impugned your motive in going to the Cynegion? Give me his
name. My sword says you did well." "Count Corti, the Lord has taken care of His
own." "As you say, Princess Irene. Hear me before addressing yourself to
something else.... I remember the words of the Creed--or if I have them wrong
correct me: 'I believe in God, and Jesus Christ, his Son.'" "It is word for
word." "Am I to understand you gave him the form?" "The idea is Father
Hilarion's." "And the Two Articles. Are they indeed sayings of Jesus Christ?"
"Even so." "Give me the book containing them." Taking a New Testament from the
table, she gave it to him. "You will find the sayings easily. On the margins
opposite them there are markings illuminated in gold." "Thanks, O Princess, most
humbly. I will return the book." "No, Count, it is yours." An expression she did
not understand darkened his face. "Are you a Christian?" she asked. He flushed
deeply, and bowed while answering:

"My mother is a Christian." That night Count Corti searched the book, and found
that the strength of faith underlying his mother's prayers for his return to
her, and the Princess' determination to die with the monk, were but Christian
lights. "Princess Irene," he said one day, "I have studied the book you gave me;
and knowing now who Christ is, I am ready to accept your Creed. Tell me how I
may know myself a believer?" A lamp in the hollow of an alabaster vase glows
through the transparency; so her countenance responded to the joy behind it.
"Render obedience to His commands--do His will, O Count--then wilt thou be a
believer in Christ, and know it." The darkness she had observed fall once before
on his face obscured it again, and he arose and went out in silence. Brave he
certainly was, and strong. Who could strike like him? He loved opposition for
the delight there was in overcoming it; yet in his chamber that night he was
never so weak. He resorted to the book, but could not read. It seemed to accuse
him. "Thou Islamite--thou son of Mahomet, though born of a Christian, whom
servest thou? Judas, what dost thou in this city? Hypocrite--traitor--which is
thy master, Mahomet or Christ?" He fell upon his knees, tore at his beard,
buried his head in his arms. He essayed prayer to Christ. "Jesus--Mother of
Jesus--O my mother!" he cried in agony. The hour he was accustomed to give to
Mahommed came round. He drew out the writing materials. "The Princess"--thus he
began a sentence, but stopped--something caught hold of his heart--the speaking
face of the beloved woman appeared to him--her eyes were reproachful--her lips
moved--she spoke: "Count Corti, I am she whom thou lovest; but what dost thou?
Is it not enough to betray my kinsman? Thy courage--what makest thou of it but
wickedness? ... Write of me to thy master. Come every day, and contrive that I
speak, then tell him of it. Am I sick? Tell him of it. Do I hold to this or
that? Tell him. Am I shaken by visions of ruin to my country? Tell him of them.
What is thy love if not the servant for hire of his love? Traitor--panderer!"
The Count pushed the table from him, and sprang to foot writhing. To shut out
the word abhorrent above all other words, he clapped his hands tight over his
ears--in vain. "Panderer!" --he heard with his soul--"Panderer! When thou hast
delivered me to Mahommed, what is he to give thee? How much?" Thus shame, like a
wild dog, bayed at him. For relief he ran out into the garden. And it was only
the beginning of misery. Such the introduction or first chapter, what of the
catastrophe? He could not sleep for shame. In the morning he ordered his horse,
but had not courage to go to Blacherne. How could he look at the kindly face of
the master he was betraying? He thought of the Princess. Could he endure her
salutation? She whom he was under compact to deliver to Mahommed? A paroxysm of
despair seized him. He rode to the Gate St. Romain, and out of it into the
country. Gallop, gallop--the steed was good--his best Arab, fleet and tireless.
Noon overtook him--few things else could--still he galloped. The earth turned
into a green ribbon under the flying hoofs, and there was relief in the speed.
The air, whisked through, was soothing. At length he came to a wood, wild and
interminable, Belgrade, though he knew it not, and dismounting by a stream, he
spent the day there. If now and then the steed turned its eyes upon him,
attracted by his sighs, groans and prayer, there was at least no accusation in
them. The solitude was restful; and returning after nightfall, he entered the
city through the sortie under the Palace of Blacherne known as the Cercoporta.
It is well pain of spirit has its intermissions; otherwise long life could not
be; and if sleep bring them, so much the better. Next day betimes, the Count was
at Blacherne. "I pray grace, O my Lord!" he said, speaking to the question in
the Emperor's look. "Yesterday I had to ride. This confinement in the city
deadens me. I rode all day." The good, easy master sighed: "Would I had been
with you, Count." Thus he dismissed the truancy. But with the Princess it was a
lengthy chapter. If the Emperor was never so gracious, she seemed never so
charming. He wrote to Mahommed in the evening, and walked the garden the residue
of the night. So weeks and months passed, and March came--even the night of the
twenty-fifth, with its order from the Sultan to the White Castle--an interval of
indecision, shame, and self-indictment. How many plans of relief he formed who
can say? Suicide he put by, a very last resort. There was also a temptation to
cut loose from Mahommed, and go boldly over to the Emperor. That would be a
truly Christian enlistment for the approaching war; and aside from conformity to
his present sympathies, it would give him a right to wear the Princess' favor on
his helmet. But a fear shook the resort out of mind. Mahommed, whether
successful or defeated, would demand an explanation of him, possibly an
accounting. He knew the Sultan. Of all the schemes presented, the most plausible
was flight. There was the gate, and he its keeper, and beyond the gate, the
sunny Italian shore, and his father's castle. The seas and sailing between were
as green landscapes to a weary prisoner, and he saw in them only the joy of
going and freedom to do. Welcome, and to God the praise! More than once he
locked his portables of greatest value in the cabin of the galley. But alas! He
was in bonds. Life in Constantinople now comprehended two of the ultimate
excellencies to him, Princess Irene and Christ--and their joinder in the
argument he took to be no offence. From one to another of these projects he
passed, and they but served to hide the flight of time. He was drifting--ahead,
and not far, he heard the thunder of coming events--yet he drifted. In this
condition, the most envied man in Constantinople and the most wretched, the
Sultan's order was delivered to him by Ali. The time for decision was come.
Tired--ashamed--angry with himself, he determined to force the end. The Count
arrived at the Castle, was immediately admitted to the Sultan; indeed, had he
been less resolute, his master's promptitude would have been a circumstance of
disturbing significance. Observation satisfied him Mahommed was in the field;
for with all his Epicureanism in times of peace, when a campaign was in progress
the Conqueror resolved himself into a soldierly example of indifference to
luxury. In other words, with respect to furnishment, the interior of the old
Castle presented its every day ruggedness. One lamp fixed to the wall near the
door of the audience chamber struggled with the murk of a narrow passage, giving
to view an assistant chamberlain, an armed sentinel, and two jauntily attired
pages in waiting. Surrendering his sword to the chamberlain, the Count halted
before the door, while being announced; at the same time, he noticed a man come
out of a neighboring apartment clad in black velvet from head to foot, followed
closely by a servant. It was the Prince of India. The mysterious person advanced
slowly, his eyes fixed on the floor, his velvet-shod feet giving out no sound.
His air indicated deep reflection. In previous encounters with him, the Count
had been pleased; now his sensations were of repugnance mixed with doubt and
suspicion. He had not time to account for the change. It may have had origin in
the higher prescience sometimes an endowment of the spirit by which we stand
advised of a friend or an enemy; most likely, however, it was a consequence of
the curious tales abroad in Constantinople; for at the recognition up sprang the
history of the Prince's connection with Lael, and her abandonment by him, the
more extraordinary from the evidences of his attachment to her. Up sprang also
the opinion of universal prevalence in the city that he had perished in the
great fire. What did it all mean? What kind of man was he? The servant carried a
package wrapped in gold-embroidered green silk. Coming near, the Prince raised
his eyes--stopped--smiled--and said:

"Count Corti--or Mirza the Emir--which have I the honor of meeting?" In spite of
the offence he felt, Corti blushed, such a flood of light did the salutation let
in upon the falsity of his position. Far from losing presence of mind, he
perceived at once how intimately the Prince stood in the councils of the Sultan.
"The Lord Mahommed must be heard before I can answer," he returned, calmly. In
an instant the Prince became cordial. "That was well answered," he said. "I am
pleased to have my judgment of you confirmed. Your mission has been a trying
one, but you have conducted it like a master. The Lord Mahommed has thanked me
many times that I suggested you for it. He is impatient to see you. We will go
in together." Mahommed, in armor, was standing by a table on which were a bare
cimeter, a lamp brightly burning, and two large unrolled maps. In one of the
latter, the Count recognized Constantinople and its environs cast together from
his own surveys. Retired a few steps were the two Viziers, Kalil Pacha and his
rival, Saganos Pacha, the Mollah Kourani, and the Sheik Akschem-sed-din. The
preaching of the Mollah had powerfully contributed to arousing the fanatical
spirit of the Sultan's Mohammedan subjects. The four were standing in the
attitude usual to Turkish officials in presence of a superior, their heads
bowed, their hands upon their stomachs. In speaking, if they raised their eyes
from the floor it was to shoot a furtive glance, then drop them again. "This is
the grand design of the work by which you will be governed," Mahommed said to
the counsellors, laying the finger points of his right hand upon the map unknown
to the Count, and speaking earnestly. "You will take it, and make copies
tonight; for if the stars fail not, I will send the masons and their workmen to
the other shore in the morning." The advisers saluted--it would be difficult to
say which of them with the greatest unction. Looking sharply at Kalil, the
master asked: "You say you superintended the running of the lines in person?"
Kalil saluted separately, and returned: "My Lord may depend upon the survey."
"Very well. I wait now only the indication of Heaven that the time is ripe for
the movement. Is the Prince of India coming?" "I am here, my Lord." Mahommed
turned as the Prince spoke, and let his eyes rest a moment upon Count Corti,
without a sign of recognition. "Come forward, Prince," he said. "What is the
message you bring me?" "My Lord," the Prince replied, after prostration, "in the
Hebrew Scriptures there is a saying in proof of the influence the planets have
in the affairs of men: 'Then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters
of Megiddo; they fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against
Sisera.' Now art thou truly Sultan of Sultans. To-morrow--the twenty-sixth of
March--will be memorable amongst days, for then thou mayst begin the war with
the perfidious Greek. From four o'clock in the morning the stars which fought
against Sisera will fight for Mahommed. Let those who love him salute and
rejoice." The counsellors, dropping on their knees, fell forward, their faces on
their hands. The Prince of India did the same. Count Corti alone remained
standing, and Mahommed again observed him. "Hear you," the latter said, to his
officers. "Go assemble the masons and their workmen, the masters of boats, and
the chiefs charged with duties. At four o'clock in the morning I will move
against Europe. The stars have said it, and their permission is my law. Rise!"
As his associates were moving backward with repeated genuflections, the Prince
of India spoke:

"O most favored of men! Let them stay a moment." At a sign from the Sultan they
halted; thereupon the Prince of India beckoned Syama to come, and taking the
package from his hands, he laid it on the table. "For my Lord Mahommed," he
said. "What is it?" Mahommed demanded. "A sign of conquest.... My Lord knows
King Solomon ruled the world in his day, its soul of wisdom. At his death
dominion did not depart from him. The secret ministers in the earth, the air and
the waters, obedient to Allah, became his slaves. My Lord knows of whom I speak.
Who can resist them? ... In the tomb of Hiram, King of Tyre, the friend of King
Solomon, I found a sarcophagus. It was covered with a model in marble of the
Temple of the Hebrew Almighty God. Removing the lid, lo! the mummy of Hiram, a
crown upon its head, and at its feet the sword of Solomon, a present without
price. I brought it away, resolved to give it to him whom the stars should elect
for the overthrow of the superstitions devised by Jesus, the bastard son of
Joseph the carpenter of Nazareth.... Undo the wrappings, Lord Mahommed." The
Sultan obeyed, and laying the last fold of the cloth aside, drew back staring,
and with uplifted hands. "Kalil--Kourani--Akschem-sed-din--all of you, come
look. Tell me what it is--it blinds me." The sword of Solomon lay before them;
its curved blade a gleam of splendor, its scabbard a mass of brilliants, its
hilt a ruby so pure we may say it retained in its heart the life of a flame.
"Take it in hand, Lord Mahommed," said the Prince of India. The young Sultan
lifted the sword, and as he did so down a groove in its back a stream of pearls
started and ran, ringing musically, and would not rest while he kept the blade
in motion. He was speechless from wonder. "Now may my Lord march upon
Constantinople, for the stars and every secret minister of Solomon will fight
for him." So saying, the Prince knelt before the Sultan, and laid his lips on
the instep of his foot, adding: "Oh, my Lord! with that symbol in hand, march,
and surely as Tabor is among the mountains and Carmel by the sea, so surely
Christ will give place to Mahomet in Sancta Sophia. March at four o'clock." And
the counsellors left kisses on the same instep, and departed. Thence through the
night the noises of preparation kept the space between the hills of the narrows
alive with echoes. At the hour permitted by the stars--four o'clock--a cloud of
boats cast loose from the Asiatic shore, and with six thousand laborers, handmen
to a thousand master masons, crossed at racing speed to Europe. "God is God, and
Mahomet is his Prophet," they shouted. The vessels of burden, those with lime,
those with stone, those with wood, followed as they were called, and unloading,
hauled out, to give place to others. Before sun up the lines of the triangular
fort whose walls near Roumeli-Hissar are yet intact, prospectively a landmark
enduring as the Pyramids, were defined and swarming with laborers. The three
Pachas, Kalil, Sarudje, and Saganos, superintended each a side of the work, and
over them all, active and fiercely zealous, moved Mahommed, the sword of Solomon
in his hand. And there was no lack of material for the structure extensive as it
was. Asia furnished its quota, and Christian towns and churches on the Bosphorus
were remorselessly levelled for the stones in them; wherefore the outer faces of
the curtains and towers are yet speckled with marbles in block, capital and
column. Thus Mahommed, taking his first step in the war so long a fervid dream,
made sure of his base of operations. On the twenty-eighth of August, the work
completed, from his camp on the old Asometon promontory he reconnoitred the
country up to the ditch of Constantinople, and on the first of September betook
himself to Adrianople. CHAPTER II

MAHOMMED AND COUNT CORTI MAKE A WAGER

Upon the retirement of the Prince of India and the counsellors, Mahommed took
seat by the table, and played with the sword of Solomon, making the pearls
travel up and down the groove in the blade, listening to their low ringing, and
searching for inscriptions. This went on until Count Corti began to think
himself forgotten. At length the Sultan, looking under the guard, uttered an
exclamation--looked again--and cried out:

"O Allah! It is true!--May I be forgiven for doubting him!--Come, Mirza, come
see if my eyes deceive me. Here at my side!" The Count mastered his surprise,
and was presently leaning over the Sultan's shoulder. "You remember, Mirza, we
set out together studying Hebrew. Against your will I carried you along with me
until you knew the alphabet, and could read a little. You preferred Italian, and
when I brought the learned men, and submitted to them that Hebrew was one of a
family of tongues more or less alike, and would have sent you with them to the
Sidonian coast for inscriptions, you refused. Do you remember?" "My Lord, those
were the happiest days of my life." Mahommed laughed. "I kept you three days on
bread and water, and let you off then because I could not do without you.... But
for the matter now. Under this guard--look--are not the brilliants set in the
form of letters?" Corti examined closely. "Yes, yes; there are letters--I see
them plainly--a name." "Spell it." "S-O-L-O-M-O-N."

"Then I have not deceived myself," Mahommed exclaimed. "Nor less has the Prince
of India deceived me." He grew more serious. "A marvellous man! I cannot make
him out. The more I do with him the more incomprehensible he becomes. The long
past is familiar to him as the present to me. He is continually digging up
things ages old, and amazing me with them. Several times I have asked him when
he was born, and he has always made the same reply: 'I will tell when you are
Lord of Constantinople.' ... How he hates Christ and the Christians! ... This is
indeed the sword of Solomon--and he found it in the tomb of Hiram, and gives it
to me as the elect of the stars now. Ponder it, O Mirza! Now at the mid of the
night in which I whistle up my dogs of war to loose them on the _Gabour_--How,
Mirza--what ails you? Why that change of countenance? Is he not a dog of an
unbeliever? On your knees before me--I have more to tell you than to ask. No,
spurs are troublesome. To the door and bid the keeper there bring a stool--and
look lest the lock have an ear hanging to it. Old Kalil, going out, though
bowing, and lip-handing me, never took his eyes off you." The stool brought,
Corti was about to sit. "Take off your cap"--Mahommed spoke sternly--"for as you
are not the Mirza I sent away, I want to see your face while we talk. Sit here,
in the full of the light." The Count seated, placed his hooded cap on the floor.
He was perfectly collected. Mahommed fingered the ruby hilt while searching the
eyes which as calmly searched his. "How brave you are!" the Sultan began, but
stopped. "Poor Mirza!" he began again, his countenance softened. One would have
said some tender recollection was melting the shell of his heart. "Poor Mirza! I
loved you better than I loved my father, better than I loved my brothers, well
as I loved my mother--with a love surpassing all I ever knew but one, and of
that we will presently speak. If honor has a soul, it lives in you, and the
breath you draw is its wine, purer than the first expressage of grapes from the
Prophet's garden down by Medina. Your eyes look truth, your tongue drips it as a
broken honey-comb drips honey. You are truth as God is God." He was speaking
sincerely. "Fool--fool--that I let you go!--and I would not--no, by the rose-
door of Paradise and the golden stairs to the House of Allah, I would not had I
loved my full moon of full moons less. She was parted from me; and with whose
eyes could I see her so well as with yours, O my falcon? Who else would report
to me so truly her words? Love makes men and lions mad; it possessed me; and I
should have died of it but for your ministering. Wherefore, O Mirza"--

The Count had been growing restive; now he spoke. "My Lord is about committing
himself to some pledge. He were wise, did he hear me first." "Perhaps so," the
Sultan rejoined, uncertainly, but added immediately: "I will hear you." "It is
true, as my Lord said, I am not the Mirza he despatched to Italy. The changes I
have undergone are material; and in recounting them I anticipate his anger. He
sees before him the most wretched of men to whom death would be mercy." "Is it
so bad? You were happy when you went away. Was not the mission to your content?"
"My Lord's memory is a crystal cup from which nothing escapes--a cup without a
leak. He must recall how I prayed to stay with him." "Yes, yes." "My dread was
prophetic." "Tell me of the changes." "I will--and truly as there is but one
God, and he the father of life and maker of things. First, then, the affection
which at my going was my Lord's, and which gave me to see him as the Light of
the World, and the perfection of glory in promise, is now divided." "You mean
there is another Light of the World? Be it so, and still you leave me flattered.
How far you had to travel before finding the other! Who is he?" "The Emperor of
the Greeks." "Constantine? Are his gifts so many and rich? The next." "I am a
Christian." "Indeed? Perhaps you can tell me the difference between God and
Allah. Yesterday Kourani said they were the same." "Nay, my Lord, the difference
is between Christ and Mahomet." "The mother of the one was a Jewess, the mother
of the other an Arab--I see. Go on." The Count did not flinch. "My Lord, great
as is your love of the Princess Irene"--Mahommed half raised his hands, his
brows knit, his eyes filled with fire, but the Count continued composedly--"mine
is greater." The Sultan recovered himself. "The proof, the proof!" he said, his
voice a little raised. "My love of her is consuming me, but I see you alive."
"My Lord's demand is reasonable. I came here to make the avowal, and die. Would
my Lord so much?" "You would die for the Princess?" "My Lord has said it." "Is
there not something else in the urgency?" "Yes--honor." The Count's astonishment
was unspeakable. He expected an outburst of wrath unappeasable, a summons for an
executioner; instead, Mahommed's eyes became humid, and resting his elbow on the
table, and his face on the thumb and forefinger, he said, gazing sorrowfully:

"Ahmed was my little brother. His mother published before my father's death,
that my mother was a slave. She was working for her child already, and I had him
smothered in a bath. Cruel? God forgive me! It was my duty to provide for the
peace of my people. I had a right to take care of myself; yet will I never be
forgiven. Kismet!... I have had many men slain since. I travel, going to mighty
events beckoned by destiny. The ordinary cheap soul cannot understand how
necessary it is that my path should be smooth and clear; for sometime I may want
to run; and he will amuse or avenge himself by stamping me in history a monster
without a soul. Kismet! ... But you, my poor Mirza, you should know me better.
You are my brother without guile. I am not afraid to love you. I do love you.
Let us see.... Your letters from Constantinople--I have them all--told me so
much more than you intended, I could not suspect your fidelity. They prepared me
for everything you have confessed. Hear how in my mind I disposed of them point
by point.... 'Mirza,' I said, 'pities the _Gabour_ Emperor; in the end he will
love him. Loving a hundred men is less miraculous in a man than loving one. He
will make comparisons. Why not? The _Gabour_ appeals to him through his
weakness, I through my strength. I would rather be feared than pitied. Moreover,
the _Gabour's_ day runs to its close, and as it closes, mine opens. Pity never
justified treason.' ... And I said, too, on reading the despatch detailing your
adventures in Italy: 'Poor Mirza! now has he discovered he is an Italian, stolen
when a child, and having found his father's castle and his mother, a noble
woman, he will become a Christian, for so would I in his place.' Did I stop
there? The wife of the Pacha who received you from your abductors is in Broussa.
I sent to her asking if she had a keepsake or memento which would help prove
your family and country. See what she returned to me." From under a cloth at the
further end of the table, Mahommed drew a box, and opening it, produced a collar
of lace fastened with a cameo pin. On the pin there was a graven figure. "Tell
me, Mirza, if you recognize the engraving." The Count took the cameo, looked at
it, and replied, with a shaking voice:

"The arms of the Corti! God be praised!" "And here--what are these, and what the
name on them?" Mahommed gave him a pair of red morocco half-boots for a child,
on which, near the tops, a name was worked in silk. "It is mine, my Lord--my
name--'Ugo.'" He cast himself before the Sultan, and embraced his knees, saying,
in snatches as best he could:

"I do not know what my Lord intends--whether he means I am to die or live--if it
be death, I pray him to complete his mercy by sending these proofs to my
mother"--

"Poor Mirza, arise! I prefer to have your face before me." Directly the Count
was reseated, Mahommed continued:

"And you, too, love the Princess Irene? You say you love her more than I? And
you thought I could not endure hearing you tell it? That I would summon black
Hassan with his bowstring? With all your opportunities, your seeing and hearing
her, as the days multiplied from tens to hundreds, is it for me to teach you she
will come to no man except as a sacrifice? What great thing have you to offer
her? While I--well, by this sword of Solomon, to-morrow morning I set out to say
to her: 'For thy love, O my full Moon of full Moons, for thy love thou shalt
have the redemption of thy Church.'... And besides, did I not foresee your
passion? Courtiers stoop low and take pains to win favor; but no courtier, not
even a professional, intending merely to please me, could have written of her as
you did; and by that sign, O Mirza, I knew you were in the extremity of passion.
Offended? Not so, not so! I sent you to take care of her--fight for her--die, if
her need were so great. Of whom might I expect such service but a lover? Did I
not, the night of our parting, foretell what would happen?" He paused gazing at
the ruby of the ring on his finger. "See, Mirza! There has not been a waking
hour since you left me but I have looked at this jewel; and it has kept color
faithfully. Often as I beheld it, I said: 'Mirza loves her because he cannot
help it; yet he is keeping honor with me. Mirza is truth, as God is God. From
his hand will I receive her in Constantinople'"--

"O my Lord"--

"Peace, peace! The night wanes, and you have to return. Of what was I speaking?
Oh, yes"--

"But hear me, my Lord. At the risk of your displeasure I must speak." "What is
it?" "In her presence my heart is always like to burst, yet, as I am to be
judged in the last great day, I have kept faith with my Lord. Once she thanked
me--it was after I offered myself to the lion--O Heaven! how nearly I lost my
honor! Oh, the agony of that silence! The anguish of that remembrance! I have
kept the faith, my Lord. But day by day now the will to keep it grows weaker.
All that holds me steadfast is my position in Constantinople. What am I there?"
The Count buried his face in his hands, and through the links in his surcoat the
tremor which shook his body was apparent. Mahommed waited. "What am I there?
Having come to see the goodness of the Emperor, I must run daily to betray him.
I am a Christian; yet as Judas sold his Master, I am under compact to sell my
religion. I love a noble woman, yet am pledged to keep her safely, and deliver
her to another. O my Lord, my Lord! This cannot go on. Shame is a vulture, and
it is tearing me--my heart bleeds in its beak. Release me, or give me to death.
If you love me, release me." "Poor Mirza!" "My Lord, I am not afraid." Mahommed
struck the table violently, and his eyes glittered. "That ever one should think
I loved a coward! Yet more intolerable, that he whom I have called brother
should know me so little! Can it be, O Mirza, can it be, you tell me these
things imagining them new to me? ... Let me have done. What we are saying would
have become us ten years ago, not now. It is unmanly. I had a purpose in sending
for you.... Your mission in Constantinople ends in the morning at four o'clock.
In other words, O Mirza, the condition passes from preparation for war with the
_Gabour_ to war. Observe now. You are a fighting man--a knight of skill and
courage. In the rencounters to which I am going--the sorties, the assaults, the
duels single and in force, the exchanges with all arms, bow, arbalist, guns
small and great, the mines and countermines--you cannot stay out. You must
fight. Is it not so?" Corti's head arose, his countenance brightened. "My Lord,
I fear I run forward of your words--forgive me." "Yes, give ear.... The question
now is, whom will you fight--me or the _Gabour?_"

"O my Lord"--

"Be quiet, I say. The issue is not whether you love me less. I prefer you give
him your best service." "How, my Lord?" "I am not speaking in contempt, but with
full knowledge of your superiority with weapons--of the many of mine who must go
down before you. And that you may not be under restraint of conscience or arm-
tied in the melee, I not only conclude your mission, but release you from every
obligation to me." "Every obligation!" "I know my words, Emir, yet I will leave
nothing uncertain.... You will go back to the city free of every obligation to
me--arm-free, mind-free. Be a Christian, if you like. Send me no more despatches
advisory of the Emperor"--

"And the Princess Irene, my Lord?" Mahommed smiled at the Count's eagerness.
"Have patience, Mirza.... Of the moneys had from me, and the properties
heretofore mine in trust, goods, horses, arms, armor, the galley and its crew, I
give them to you without an accounting. You cannot deliver them to me or dispose
of them, except with an explanation which would weaken your standing in
Blacherne, if not undo you utterly. You have earned them." Corti's face
reddened. "With all my Lord's generosity, I cannot accept this favor. Honor"--

"Silence, Emir, and hear me. I have never been careless of your honor. When you
set out for Italy, preparatory to the mission at Constantinople, you owed me
duty, and there was no shame in the performance; but now--so have the changes
wrought--that which was honorable to Mirza the Emir is scandalous to Count
Corti. After four o'clock you will owe me no duty; neither will you be in my
service. From that hour Mirza, my falcon, will cease to be. He will have
vanished. Or if ever I know him more, it will be as Count Corti, Christian,
stranger, and enemy." "Enemy--my Lord's enemy? Never!" The Count protested with
extended arms. "Yes, circumstances will govern. And now the Princess Irene."
Mahommed paused; then, summoning his might of will, and giving it expression in
a look, he laid a forcible hand on the listener's shoulder. "Of her now.... I
have devised a promotion for you, Emir. After to-night we will be rivals." Corti
was speechless--he could only stare. "By the rose-door of Paradise--the only
oath fit for a lover--or, as more becoming a knight, by this sword of Solomon,
Emir, I mean the rivalry to be becoming and just. I have an advantage of you.
With women rank and riches are as candles to moths. On the other side your
advantage is double; you are a Christian, and may be in her eyes day after day.
And not to leave you in mean condition, I give you the moneys and property now
in your possession; not as a payment--God forbid!--but for pride's sake--my
pride. Mahommed the Sultan may not dispute with a knight who has only a sword."
"I have estates in Italy." "They might as well be in the moon. I shall enclose
Constantinople before you could arrange with the Jews, and have money enough to
buy a feather for your cap. If this were less true, comes then the argument: How
can you dispose of the properties in hand, and quiet the gossips in the
_Gabour's_ palace? 'Where are your horses?' they will ask. What answer have you?
'Where your galley?' Answer. 'Where your Mohammedan crew?' Answer." The Count
yielded the debate, saying: "I cannot comprehend my Lord. Such thing was never
heard of before." "Must men be restrained because the thing they wish to do was
never heard of before? Shall I not build a mosque with five minarets because
other builders stopped with three? ... To the sum of it all now. Christian or
Moslem, are you willing to refer our rivalry for the young woman to God?" "My
wonder grows with listening to my Lord." "Nay, this surprises you because it is
new. I have had it in mind for months. It did not come to me easily. It demanded
self-denial--something I am unused to.... Here it is--I am willing to call
Heaven in, and let it decide whether she shall be mine or yours--this lily of
Paradise whom all men love at sight. Dare you as much?" The soldier spirit arose
in the Count. "Now or then, here or there, as my Lord may appoint. I am ready.
He has but to name his champion." "I protest. The duel would be unequal. As well
match a heron and a hawk. There is a better way of making our appeal. Listen....
The walls of Constantinople have never succumbed to attack. Hosts have dashed
against them, and fled or been lost. It may be so with me; but I will march, and
in my turn assault them, and thou defending with thy best might. If I am beaten,
if I retire, be the cause of failure this or that, we--you and I, O Mirza--will
call it a judgment of Heaven, and the Princess shall be yours; but if I success
and enter the city, it shall be a judgment no less, and then"--Mahommed's eyes
were full of fire--"then"--

"What then, my Lord?" "Thou shalt see to her safety in the last struggle, and
conduct her to Sancta Sophia, and there deliver her to me as ordered by God."
Corti was never so agitated. He turned pale and red--he trembled visibly.
Mahommed asked mockingly: "Is it Mirza I am treating with, or Count Corti? Are
Christians so unwilling to trust God?" "But, my Lord, it is a wager you offer
me." "Call it so." "And its conditions imply slavery for the Princess. Change
them, my Lord--allow her to be consulted and have her will, be the judgment this
or that." Mahommed clinched his hands. "Am I a brute? Did ever woman lay her
head on my breast perforce?" The Count replied, firmly:

"Such a condition would be against us both alike." The Sultan struggled with
himself a moment. "Be it so," he rejoined. "The wager is my proposal, and I will
go through with it. Take the condition, Emir. If I win, she shall come to me of
her free will or not at all." "A wife, my Lord?" "In my love first, and in my
household first--my Sultana." The animation which then came to the Count was
wonderful. He kissed Mahommed's hand. "Now has my Lord outdone himself in
generosity. I accept. In no other mode could the issue be made so absolutely a
determination of Heaven." Mahommed arose. "We are agreed.--The interview is
finished.--Ali is waiting for you." He replaced the cover on the box containing
the collar and the half-boots. "I will send these to the Countess your mother;
for hereafter you are to be to me Ugo, Count Corti.... My falcon hath cast its
jess and hood. Mirza is no more. Farewell Mirza." Corti was deeply moved.
Prostrating himself, he arose, and replied:

"I go hence more my Lord's lover than ever. Death to the stranger who in my
presence takes his name in vain." As he was retiring, Mahommed spoke again:

"A word, Count.... In what we are going to, the comfort and safety of the
Princess Irene may require you to communicate with me. You have ready wit for
such emergencies. Leave me a suggestion." Corti reflected an instant. "The
signal must proceed from me," he said. "My Lord will pitch his tent in sight"--

"By Solomon, and this his sword, yes! Every _Gabour_ who dares look over the
wall shall see it while there is a hill abiding." The Count bowed. "I know my
Lord, and give him this--God helping me, I will make myself notorious to the
besiegers as he will be to the besieged. If at any time he sees my banderole, or
if it be reported to him, let him look if my shield be black; if so, he shall
come himself with a shield the color of mine, and place himself in my view. My
Lord knows I make my own arrows. If I shoot one black feathered, he must pick it
up. The ferrule will be of hollow lead covering a bit of scrip." "Once more,
Count Corti, the issue is with God. Good night." Traversing the passage outside
the door, the Count met the Prince of India. "An hour ago I would have entitled
you Emir: but now"--the Prince smiled while speaking--"I have stayed to thank
Count Corti for his kindness to my black friend Nilo." "Your servant?" "My
friend and ally--Nilo the King.... If the Count desires to add to the
obligation, he will send the royal person to me with Ali when he returns to-
night." "I will send him." "Thanks, Count Corti." The latter lingered, gazing
into the large eyes and ruddy face, expecting at least an inquiry after Lael. He
received merely a bow, and the words: "We will meet again." Night was yet over
the city, when Ali, having landed the Count, drew out of the gate with Nilo. The
gladness of the King at being restored to his master can be easily fancied.
CHAPTER III

THE BLOODY HARVEST

In June, a few days after the completion of the enormous work begun by Mahommed
on the Asometon promontory, out of a gate attached to the High Residence of
Blacherne, familiarly known as the Caligaria, there issued a small troop of
horsemen of the imperial military establishment. The leader of this party--ten
in all--was Count Corti. Quite a body of spectators witnessed the exit, and in
their eyes he was the most gallant knight they had ever seen. They cheered him
as, turning to the right after issuance from the gate, he plunged at a lively
trot into the ravine at the foot of the wall, practically an immense natural
fosse. "God and our Lady of Blacherne," they shouted, and continued shouting
while he was in sight, notwithstanding he did not so much as shake the banderole
on his lance in reply. Of the Count's appearance this morning it is unnecessary
to say more than that he was in the suit of light armor habitual to him, and as
an indication of serious intent, bore, besides the lance, a hammer or battle-axe
fixed to his saddle-bow, a curved sword considerably longer, though not so broad
as a cimeter, a bow and quiver of arrows at his back, and a small shield or
buckler over the quiver. The favorite chestnut Arab served him for mount, its
head and neck clothed in flexible mail. The nine men following were equipped
like himself in every particular, except that their heads were protected by
close-fitting conical caps, and instead of armor on their legs, they wore
flowing red trousers. Of them it may be further remarked, their mode of riding,
due to their short stirrups, was indicative of folk akin to the Bedouin of the
Desert. Upon returning from the last interview with Mahommed in the White
Castle, the Count had subjected the crew of his galley to rigorous trial of
fitness for land service. Nine of them he found excellent riders after their
fashion, and selecting them as the most promising, he proceeded to instruct them
in the use of the arms they were now bearing. His object in this small
organization was a support to rush in after him rather than a battle front. That
is, in a charge he was to be the lance's point, and they the broadening of the
lance's blade; while he was engaged, intent on the foe before him, eight of them
were to guard him right and left, and, as the exigencies of combat might demand,
open and close in fan-like movement. The ninth man was a fighter in their rear.
In the simple manoeuvring of this order of battle he had practised them
diligently through the months. The skill attained was remarkable; and the
drilling having been in the Hippodrome, open to the public, the concourse to see
it had been encouraging. In truth, the wager with Mahommed had supplied the
Count with energy of body and mind. He studied the chances of the contest,
knowing how swiftly it was coming, and believed it possible to defend the city
successfully. At all events, he would do his best, and if the judgment were
adverse, it should not be through default on his part. The danger--and he
discerned it with painful clearness--was in the religious dissensions of the
Greeks; still he fancied the first serious blow struck by the Turks, the first
bloodshed, would bring the factions together, if only for the common safety. It
is well worth while here to ascertain the views and feelings of the people whom
Count Corti was thus making ready to defend. This may be said of them generally:
It seemed impossible to bring them to believe the Sultan really intended war
against the city. "What if he does?" they argued. "Who but a young fool would
think of such a thing? If he comes, we will show him the banner of the Blessed
Lady from the walls." If in the argument there was allusion to the tower on the
Asometon heights, so tall one could stand on its lead-covered roof, and looking
over the intermediate hills, almost see into Constantinople, the careless
populace hooted at the exaggeration: "There be royal idiots as well as every-day
idiots. Staring at us is one thing, shooting at us is another. Towers with walls
thirty feet thick are not movable." One day a report was wafted through the
gates that a gun in the water battery of the new Turkish fort had sunk a passing
ship. "What flag was the ship flying?" "The Venetian." "Ah, that settles it,"
the public cried. "The Sultan wants to keep the Venetians out of the Black Sea.
The Turks and the Venetians have always been at war." A trifle later
intelligence came that the Sultan, lingering at Basch-Kegan, supposably because
the air along the Bosphorus was better than the air at Adrianople, had effected
a treaty by which the Podesta of Galata bound his city to neutrality; still the
complacency of the Byzantines was in no wise disturbed. "Score one for the
Genoese. It is good to hear of their beating the Venetians." Occasionally a
wanderer--possibly a merchant, more likely a spy--passing the bazaars of
Byzantium, entertained the booth-keepers with stories of cannon being cast for
the Sultan so big that six men tied together might be fired from them at once.
The Greeks only jeered. Some said: "Oh, the Mahound must be intending a salute
for the man in the moon of Ramazan!" Others decided: "Well, he is crazier than
we thought him. There are many hills on the road to Adrianople, and at the foot
of every hill there is a bridge. To get here he must invent wings for his guns,
and even then it will be long before they can be taught to fly." At times, too,
the old city was set agog with rumors from the Asiatic provinces opposite that
the Sultan was levying unheard-of armies; he had half a million recruits
already, but wanted a million. "Oh, he means to put a lasting quietus on
Huniades and his Hungarians. He is sensible in taking so many men." In
compliment to the intelligence of the public, this obliviousness to danger had
one fostering circumstance--the gates of the city on land and water stood open
day and night. "See," it was everywhere said, "the Emperor is not alarmed. Who
has more at stake than he? He is a soldier, if he is an _azymite_. He keeps
ambassadors with the Sultan--what for, if not to be advised?" And there was a
great deal in the argument. At length the Greek ambassadors were expelled by
Mahommed. It was while he lay at Basch-Kegan. They themselves brought the news.
This was ominous, yet the public kept its spirits. The churches, notably Sancta
Sophia, were more than usually crowded with women; that was all, for the gates
not only remained open, but traffic went in and out of them unhindered--out even
to the Turkish camp, the Byzantines actually competing with their neighbors of
Galata in the furnishment of supplies. Nay, at this very period every morning a
troop of the Imperial guard convoyed a wagon from Blacherne out to Basch-Kegan
laden with the choicest food and wines; and to the officer receiving them the
captain of the convoy invariably delivered himself: "From His Majesty, the
Emperor of the Romans and Greeks, to the Lord Mahommed, Sultan of the Turks.
Prosperity and long life to the Sultan." If these were empty compliments, if the
relations between the potentates were slippery, if war were hatching, what was
the Emperor about? Six months before the fort opposite the White Castle was
begun, Constantine had been warned of Mahommed's projected movement against his
capital. The warning was from Kalil Pacha; and whether Kalil was moved by pity,
friendship, or avarice is of no moment; certain it is the Emperor acted upon the
advice. He summoned a council, and proposed war; but was advised to send a
protesting embassy to the enemy. A scornful answer was returned. Seeing the
timidity of his cabinet, cast upon himself, he resolved to effect a policy, and
accordingly expostulated, prayed, sent presents, offered tribute, and by such
means managed to satisfy his advisers; yet all the time he was straining his
resources in preparation. In the outset, he forced himself to face two facts of
the gravest import: first, of his people, those of age and thews for fighting
were in frocks, burrowing in monasteries; next, the clergy and their affiliates
were his enemies, many openly preferring a Turk to an _azymite_. A more
discouraging prospect it is difficult to imagine. There was but one hope left
him. Europe was full of professional soldiers. Perhaps the Pope had influence to
send him a sufficient contingent. Would His Holiness interest himself so far?
The brave Emperor despatched an embassy to Rome, promising submission to the
Papacy, and praying help in Christ's name. Meantime his agents dispersed
themselves through the Aegean, buying provisions and arms, enginery, and war
material of all kinds. This business kept his remnant of a navy occupied. Every
few days a vessel would arrive with stores for the magazine under the
Hippodrome. By the time the fort at Roumeli Hissar was finished, one of his
anxieties was in a measure relieved. The other was more serious. Then the
frequency with which he climbed the Tower of Isaac, the hours he passed there
gazing wistfully southward down the mirror of the Marmora, became observable.
The valorous, knightly heart, groaning under the humiliations of the haughty
Turk, weary not less of the incapacity of his own people to perceive their
peril, and arise heroically to meet it, found opportunity to meditate while he
was pacing the lofty lookout, and struggling to descry the advance of the
expected succor. In this apology the reader who has wondered at the inaction of
the Emperor what time the Sultan was perfecting his Asiatic communications is
answered. There was nothing for him but a siege. To that alternative the last of
the Romans was reduced. He could not promise himself enough of his own subjects
to keep the gates, much less take the field. The country around Constantinople
was given to agriculture. During the planting season, and the growing, the Greek
husbandmen received neither offence nor alarm from the Turks. But in June, when
the emerald of the cornfields was turning to gold, herds of mules and cavalry
horses began to ravage the fields, and the watchmen, hastening from their little
huts on the hills to drive them out, were set upon by the soldiers and beaten.
They complained to the Emperor, and he sent an embassy to the Sultan praying him
to save the crops from ruin. In reply, Mahommed ordered the son of Isfendiar, a
relative, to destroy the harvest. The peasants resisted, and not unsuccessfully.
In the South, and in the fields near Hissar on the north, there were deaths on
both sides. Intelligence of the affair coming to Constantine, he summoned Count
Corti. "The long expected has arrived," he said. "Blood has been shed. My people
have been attacked and slain in their fields; their bodies lie out unburied. The
war cannot be longer deferred. It is true the succors from the Holy Father have
not arrived; but they are on the way, and until they come we must defend
ourselves. Cold and indifferent my people have certainly been. Now I will make a
last effort to arouse them. Go out toward Hissar, and recover the dead. Have the
bodies brought in just as they are. I will expose them in the Hippodrome.
Perhaps their bruises and blood may have an effect; if not, God help this
Christian city. I will give you a force." "Your Majesty," the Count replied,
"such an expedition might provoke an advance upon the city before you are
entirely prepared. Permit me to select a party from my own men." "As you choose.
A guide will accompany you." To get to the uplands, so to speak, over which,
north of Galata, the road to Hissar stretched, Corti was conducted past the
Cynegion and through the districts of Eyoub to the Sweet Waters of Europe, which
he crossed by a bridge below the site of the present neglected country palace of
the Sultan. Up on the heights he turned left of Pera, and after half an hour's
rapid movement was trending northward parallel with the Bosphorus, reaches of
which were occasionally visible through cleftings of the mountainous shore.
Straw-thatched farmhouses dotted the hills and slopes, and the harvest spread
right and left in cheerful prospect. The adventurer had ample time to think; but
did little of it, being too full of self-gratulation at having before him an
opportunity to recommend himself to the Emperor, with a possibility of earning
distinction creditable in the opinion of the Princess Irene. At length an
exclamation of his guide aroused him to action. "The Turks, the Turks!" "Where?"
"See that smoke." Over a hilltop in his front, the Count beheld the sign of
alarm crawling slowly into the sky. "Here is a village--to our left, but"--

"Have done," said Corti, "and get me to the fire. Is there a nearer way than
this?" "Yes, under the hill yonder." "Is it broken?" "It narrows to a path, but
is clear." The Count spoke in Arabic to his followers, and taking the gallop,
pushed the guide forward. Shortly a party of terror-stricken peasants ran down
toward him. "Why do you run? What is the matter?" he asked. "Oh, the Turks, the
Turks!" "What of them? Stand, and tell me." "We went to work this morning
cutting corn, for it is now ripe enough. The Mahounds broke in on us. We were a
dozen to their fifty or more. We only escaped, and they set fire to the field. O
Christ, and the Most Holy Mother! Let us pass, or we too will be slain!" "Are
they mounted?" "Some have horses, some are afoot." "Where are they now?" "In the
field on the hill." "Well, go to the village fast as you can, and tell the men
there to come and pick up their dead. Tell them not to fear, for the Emperor has
sent me to take care of them." With that the Count rode on. This was the sight
presented him when he made the ascent: A wheat field sloping gradually to the
northeast; fire creeping across it crackling, smoking, momentarily widening;
through the cloud a company of Turkish soldiers halted, mostly horsemen, their
arms glinting brightly in the noon sun; blackened objects, unmistakably dead
men, lying here and there. Thus the tale of the survivors of the massacre was
confirmed. Corti gave his lance with the banderole on it to the guide. By
direction his Berbers drove their lances into the earth that they might leave
them standing, drew their swords, and brought their bucklers forward. Then he
led them into the field. A few words more, directions probably, and he started
toward the enemy, his followers close behind two and two, with a rear-guardsman.
He allowed no outcry, but gradually increased the pace. There were two hundred
and more yards to be crossed, level, except the slope, and with only the moving
line of fire as an impediment. The crop, short and thin, was no obstacle under
the hoofs. The Turks watched the movement herded, like astonished sheep. They
may not have comprehended that they were being charged, or they may have
despised the assailants on account of their inferiority in numbers, or they may
have relied on the fire as a defensive wall; whatever the reason, they stood
passively waiting. When the Count came to the fire, he gave his horse the spur,
and plunging into the smoke and through the flame full speed, appeared on the
other side, shouting: "Christ and Our Lady of Blacherne!" His long sword flashed
seemingly brighter of the passage just made. Fleckings of flame clung to the
horses. What the battle-cry of the Berbers we may not tell. They screamed
something un-Christian, echoes of the Desert. Then the enemy stirred; some drew
their blades, some strung their bows; the footmen amongst them caught their
javelins or half-spears in the middle, and facing to the rear, fled, and kept
flying, without once looking over their shoulders. One man mounted, and in
brighter armor than the others, his steel cap surmounted with an immense white
turban, a sparkling aigrette pinned to the turban, cimeter in hand, strove to
form his companions--but it was too late. "Christ and our Lady of Blacherne!"
--and with that Corti was in their midst; and after him, into the lane he
opened, his Berbers drove pell-mell, knocking Turks from their saddles, and
overthrowing horses--and there was cutting and thrusting, and wounds given, and
souls rendered up through darkened eyes. The killing was all on one side; then
as a bowl splinters under a stroke, the Turkish mass flew apart, and went
helter-skelter off, each man striving to take care of himself. The Berbers
spared none of the overtaken. Spying the man with the showy armor, the Count
made a dash to get to him, and succeeded, for to say truth, he was not an
unwilling foeman. A brief combat took place, scarcely more than a blow, and the
Turk was disarmed and at mercy. "Son of Isfendiar," said Corti, "the slaying
these poor people with only their harvest knives for weapons was murder. Why
should I spare your life?" "I was ordered to punish them." "By whom?" "My Lord
the Sultan." "Do your master no shame. I know and honor him." "Yesterday they
slew our Moslems." "They but defended their own.... You deserve death, but I
have a message for the Lord Mahommed. Swear by the bones of the Prophet to
deliver it, and I will spare you." "If you know my master, as you say, he is
quick and fierce of temper, and if I must die, the stroke may be preferable at
your hand. Give me the message first." "Well, come with me." The two remained
together until the flight and pursuit were ended; then, the fire reduced to
patches for want of stalks to feed it, the Count led the way back to the point
at which he entered the field. Taking his lance from the guide, he passed it to
the prisoner. "This is what I would have you do," he said. "The lance is mine.
Carry it to your master, the Lord Mahommed, and say to him, Ugo, Count Corti,
salute him, and prays him to look at the banderole, and fix it in his memory. He
will understand the message, and be grateful for it. Now will you swear?" The
banderole was a small flag of yellow silk, with a red moon in the centre, and on
the face of the moon a white cross. Glancing at it, the son of Isfendiar
replied:

"Take off the cross, and you show me a miniature standard of the _Silihdars_, my
Lord's guard of the Palace." Then looking the Count full in the face, he added:
"Under other conditions I should salute you Mirza, Emir of the Hajj." "I have
given you my name and title. Answer." "I will deliver the lance and message to
my Lord--I swear it by the bones of the Prophet." Scarcely had the Turk
disappeared in the direction of Hissar, when a crowd of peasants, men and women,
were seen coming timorously from the direction of the village. The Count rode to
meet them, and as they were provided with all manner of litters, by his
direction the dead Greeks were collected, and soon, with piteous lamentations, a
funeral cortege was on the road moving slowly to Constantinople. Anticipating a
speedy reappearance of the Turks, hostilities being now unavoidable, Count Corti
despatched messengers everywhere along the Bosphorus, warning the farmers and
villagers to let their fields go, and seek refuge in the city. So it came about
that the escort of the murdered peasants momentarily increased until at the
bridge over the Sweet Waters of Europe it became a column composed for the most
part of women, children, and old men. Many of the women carried babies. The old
men staggered under such goods as they could lay their hands on in haste. The
able-bodied straggled far in the rear with herds of goats, sheep, and cattle;
the air above the road rang with cries and prayers, and the road itself was
sprinkled with tears. In a word, the movement was a flight. Corti, with his
Berbers, lingered in the vicinity of the field of fight watchful of the enemy.
In the evening, having forwarded a messenger to the Emperor, he took stand at
the bridge; and well enough, for about dusk a horde of Turkish militia swept
down from the heights in search of plunder and belated victims. At the first
bite of his sword, they took to their heels, and were not again seen. By
midnight the settlements and farmhouses of the up-country were abandoned; almost
the entire district from Galata to Fanar on the Black Sea was reduced to ashes.
The Greek Emperor had no longer a frontier or a province--all that remained to
him was his capital. Many of the fugitives, under quickening of the
demonstration at the bridge, threw their burdens away; so the greater part of
them at an early hour after nightfall appeared at the Adrianople gate objects of
harrowing appeal, empty-handed, broken down, miserable. Constantine had the
funeral escort met at the gate by torch-bearers, and the sextons of the
Blacherne Chapel. Intelligence of the massacre, and that the corpses of the
harvesters would be conveyed to the Hippodrome for public exposure, having been
proclaimed generally through the city, a vast multitude was also assembled at
the gate. The sensation was prodigious. There were twenty litters, each with a
body upon it unwashed and in bloody garments, exactly as brought in. On the
right and left of the litters the torchmen took their places. The sextons lit
their long candles, and formed in front. Behind trudged the worn, dust-covered,
wretched fugitives; and as they failed to realize their rescue, and that they
were at last in safety, they did not abate their lamentations. When the
innumerable procession passed the gate, and commenced its laborious progress
along the narrow streets, seldom, if ever, has anything of the kind more
pathetic and funereally impressive been witnessed. Let be said what may, after
all nothing shall stir the human heart like the faces of fellowmen done to death
by a common enemy. There was no misjudgment of the power of the appeal in this
instance. It is no exaggeration to say Byzantium was out assisting--so did the
people throng the thoroughfares, block the street intersections, and look down
from the windows and balconies. Afar they heard the chanting of the sextons,
monotonous, yet solemnly effective; afar they saw the swaying candles and
torches; and an awful silence signalized the approach of the pageant; but when
it was up, and the bodies were borne past, especially when the ghastly
countenances of the sufferers were under eye plainly visible in the red
torchlight, the outburst of grief and rage in every form, groans, curses,
prayers, was terrible, and the amazing voice, such by unity of utterance, went
with the dead, and followed after them until at last the Hippodrome was reached.
There the Emperor, on horseback, and with his court and guards, was waiting, and
his presence lent nationality to the mournful spectacle. Conducting the bearers
of the litters to the middle of the oblong area, he bade them lay their burdens
down, and summoned the city to the view. "Let there be no haste," he said, "for,
in want of their souls, the bruised bodies of our poor countrymen shall lie here
all tomorrow, every gaping wound crying for vengeance. Then on the next day it
will be for us to say what we will do--fight, fly, or surrender." Through the
remainder of the night the work of closing the gates and making them secure
continued without cessation. The guards were strengthened at each of them, and
no one permitted to pass out. Singular to say, a number of eunuchs belonging to
the Sultan were caught and held. Some of the enraged Greeks insisted on their
death; but the good heart of the Emperor prevailed, and the prisoners were
escorted to their master. The embassy which went with them announced the closing
of the gates. "Since neither oaths, nor treaty, nor submission can secure peace,
pursue your impious warfare"--thus Constantine despatched to Mahommed. "My trust
is in God; if it shall please him to mollify your heart, I shall rejoice in the
change; if he delivers the city in your hands, I submit without a murmur to his
holy will. But until he shall pronounce between us, it is my duty to live and
die in defence of my people." [Footnote: Gibbon]

Mahommed answered with a formal declaration of war. It remains to say that the
bodies of the harvesters were viewed as promised. They lay in a row near the
Twisted Serpent, and the people passed them tearfully; in the night they were
taken away and buried. Sadder still, the result did not answer the Emperor's
hope. The feeling, mixed of sorrow and rage, was loudly manifested; but it was
succeeded by fear, and when the organization of companies was attempted, the
exodus was shameful. Thousands fled, leaving about one hundred thousand behind,
not to fight, but firm in the faith that Heaven would take care of the city.
After weeks of effort, five thousand Greeks took the arms offered them, and were
enrolled. CHAPTER IV

EUROPE ANSWERS THE CRY FOR HELP

A man in love, though the hero of many battles, shall be afraid in the presence
of his beloved, and it shall be easier for him to challenge an enemy than to ask
her love in return. Count Corti's eagerness to face the lion in the gallery of
the Cynegion had established his reputation in Constantinople for courage; his
recent defence of the harvesters raised it yet higher; now his name was on every
tongue. His habit of going about in armor had in the first days of his coming
subjected him to criticism; for the eyes before which he passed belonged for the
most part to a generation more given to prospecting for bezants in fields of
peace than the pursuit of glory in the ruggeder fields of war. But the custom
was now accepted, and at sight of him, mounted and in glistening armor, even the
critics smiled, and showered his head with silent good wishes, or if they spoke
it was to say to each other: "Oh, that the Blessed Mother would send us more
like him!" And the Count knew he had the general favor. We somehow learn such
things without their being told us. Up in the empyrean courtly circles his
relations were quite as gratifying. The Emperor made no concealment of his
partiality, and again insisted on bringing him to Blacherne. "Your Majesty," the
Count said one day, "I have no further need of my galley and its crew. I beg you
to do with them as you think best." Constantine received the offer gratefully.
"The galley is a godsend. I will order payment for it. Duke Notaras, the Grand
Admiral, will agree with you about the price." "If Your Majesty will permit me
to have my way," the Count rejoined, "you will order the vessel into the harbor
with the fleet, and if the result of the war is with Your Majesty, the Grand
Admiral can arrange for the payment; if otherwise"--he smiled at the
alternative--"I think neither Your Majesty nor myself will have occasion for a
ship." The galley was transferred from the Bay of Julian to anchorage in the
Golden Horn. That night, speaking of the tender, the Emperor said to Phranza:
"Count Corti has cast his lot with us. As I interpret him, he does not mean to
survive our defeat. See that he be charged to select a bodyguard to accompany me
in action." "Is he to be Captain of the guard?" "Yes." The duty brought the
Count to Blacherne. In a few days he had fifty men, including his nine Berbers.
These circumstances made him happy. He found peace of mind also in his release
from Mahommed. Not an hour of the day passed without his silently thanking the
Sultan for his magnanimity. But no matter for rejoicing came to him like the
privilege of freely attending the Princess Irene. Not only was her reception-
room open to him; whether she went to Blacherne or Sancta Sophia, he appeared in
her train. Often when the hour of prayer arrived, she invited him as one of her
household to accompany her to the apartment she had set apart for chapel
exercises; and at such times he strove to be devout, but in taking her for his
pattern of conduct--as yet he hardly knew when to arise or kneel, or cross
himself--if his thoughts wandered from the Madonna and Child to her, if
sometimes he fell to making comparisons in which the Madonna suffered as lacking
beauty--nay, if not infrequently he caught himself worshipping the living woman
at the foot of the altar rather than the divinity above it, few there were who
would have been in haste to condemn him even in that day. There is nothing
modern in the world's love of a lover. By the treaty with Mahommed he was free
to tell the Princess of his passion; and there were moments in which it seemed
he must cast himself at her feet and speak; but then he would be seized with a
trembling, his tongue would unaccountably refuse its office, and he would quiet
himself with the weakling's plea--another time--to-morrow, to-morrow. And always
upon the passing of the opportunity, the impulse being laid with so many of its
predecessors in the graveyard of broken resolutions--every swain afraid keeps
such a graveyard--always he sallied from her door eager for an enemy on whom to
vent his vexation. "Ah," he would say, with prolonged emphasis upon the
exclamation--"if Mahommed were only at the gate! Is he never coming?" One day he
dismounted at the Princess' door, and was ushered into the reception-room by
Lysander. "I bring you good news," he said, in course of the conversation. "What
now?" she asked. "Every sword counts. I am just from the Port of Blacherne,
whither I accompanied the Grand Equerry to assist in receiving one John Grant,
who has arrived with a following of Free Lances, mostly my own countrymen." "Who
is John Grant?" "A German old in Eastern service; more particularly an expert in
making and throwing hollow iron balls filled with inflammable liquid. On
striking, the balls burst, after which the fire is unquenchable with water."
"Oh! our Greek fire rediscovered!" "So he declares. His Majesty has ordered him
the materials he asks, and that he go to work to-morrow getting a store of his
missiles ready. The man declares also, if His Holiness would only proclaim a
crusade against the Turks. Constantinople has not space on her walls to hold the
volunteers who would hasten to her defence. He says Genoa, Venice, all Italy, is
aroused and waiting." "John Grant is welcome," the Princess returned; "the more
so that His Holiness is slow." Afterward, about the first of December, the Count
again dismounted at her door with news. "What is it now?" she inquired. "Noble
Princess, His Holiness has been heard from." "At last?" "A Legate will arrive
to-morrow." "Only a Legate! What is his name?" "Isidore, Grand Metropolitan of
Russia." "Brings he a following?" "No soldiers; only a suite of priests high and
low." "I see. He comes to negotiate. Alas!" "Why alas?" "Oh, the factions, the
factions!" she exclaimed, disconsolately; then, seeing the Count still in
wonder, she added: "Know you not that Isidore, familiarly called the Cardinal,
was appointed Metropolitan of the Russian Greek Church by the Pope, and,
rejected by it, was driven to refuge in Poland? What welcome can we suppose he
will receive here?" "Is he not a Greek?" "Yes, truly; but being a Latin
Churchman, the Brotherhoods hold him an apostate. His first demand will be to
celebrate mass in Sancta Sophia. If the world were about shaking itself to
pieces, the commotion would be but little greater than the breaking of things we
will then hear. Oh, it is an ill wind which blows him to our gates!" Meantime
the Hippodrome had been converted into a Campus Martius, where at all hours of
the day the newly enlisted men were being drilled in the arms to which they were
assigned; now as archers, now as slingers; now with balistas and catapults and
arquebuses; now to the small artillery especially constructed for service on the
walls. And as trade was at an end in the city, as in fact martial preparation
occupied attention to the exclusion of business in the commercial sense, the
ancient site was a centre of resort. Thither the Count hastened to work off the
disheartenment into which the comments of the Princess had thrown him. That same
week, however, he and the loyal population of Constantinople in general, were
cheered by a coming of real importance. Early one morning some vessels of war
hove in sight down the Marmora. Their flags proclaimed them Christian.
Simultaneously the lookouts at Point Demetrius reported a number of Turkish
galleys plying to and fro up the Bosphorus. It was concluded that a naval battle
was imminent. The walls in the vicinity of the Point were speedily crowded with
spectators. In fact, the anxiety was great enough to draw the Emperor from his
High Residence. Not doubting the galleys were bringing him stores, possibly
reinforcements, he directed his small fleet in the Golden Horn to be ready to go
to their assistance. His conjecture was right; yet more happily the Turks made
no attempt upon them. Turning into the harbor, the strangers ran up the flags of
Venice and Genoa, and never did they appear so beautiful, seen by Byzantines--
never were they more welcome. The decks were crowded with helmed men who
responded vigorously to the cheering with which they were saluted. Constantine
in person received the newcomers at the Port of Blacherne. From the wall over
the gate the Princess Irene, with an escort of noble ladies, witnessed the
landing. A knight of excellent presence stepped from a boat, and announced
himself. "I am John Justiniani of Genoa," he said, "come with two thousand
companions in arms to the succor of the most Christian Emperor Constantine.
Guide me to him, I pray." "The Emperor is here--I am he." Justiniani kissed the
hand extended to him, and returned with fervor:

"Christ and the Mother be praised! Much have I been disquieted lest we should be
too late. Your Majesty, command me." "Duke Notaras," said the Emperor, "assist
this noble gentleman and his companions. When they are disembarked, conduct them
to me. For the present I will lodge them in my residence." Then he addressed the
Genoese: "Duke Notaras, High Admiral of the Empire, will answer your every
demand. In God's name, and for the imperilled religion of our Redeeming Lord, I
bid you welcome." It seemed the waving of scarfs and white hands on the wall,
and the noisy salutations of the people present, were not agreeable to the Duke;
although coldly polite, he impressed Justiniani as an ill second to the stately
but courteous Emperor. At night there was an audience in the Very High
Residence, and Justiniani assisted Phranza in the presentation of his
companions; and though the banquet which shortly succeeded the audience may not,
in the courses served or in its table splendors, have vied with those Alexis
resorted to for the dazzlement of the chiefs of the first crusade, it was not
entirely wanting in such particulars; for it has often happened, if the
chronicles may be trusted, that the expiring light of great countries has
lingered longest in their festive halls, just as old families have been known to
nurture their pride in sparkling heirlooms, all else having been swept away. The
failings on this occasion, if any there were, Constantine more than amended by
his engaging demeanor. Soldier not less than Emperor, he knew to win the
sympathy and devotion of soldiers. Of his foreign guests that evening many
afterwards died hardly distinguishing between him and the Holy Cause which led
them to their fate. The table was long, and without head or foot. On one side,
in the middle, the Emperor presided; opposite him sat the Princess Irene; and on
their right and left, in gallant interspersion, other ladies, the wives and
daughters of senators, nobles, and officials of the court, helped charm the
Western chivalry. And of the guests, the names of a few have been preserved by
history, together with the commands to which they were assigned in the siege.
There was Andrew Dinia, under Duke Notaras, a captain of galleys. There was the
Venetian Contarino, intrusted with the defence of the Golden Grate. There was
Maurice Cataneo, a soldier of Genoa, commandant of the walls on the landward
side between the Golden Gate and the Gate Selimbria. There were two brothers,
gentlemen of Genoa,

Paul Bochiardi and Antonin Troilus Bochiardi, defendants of the Adrianople Gate.
There was Jerome Minotte, Bayle of Venice, charged with safe keeping the walls
between the Adrianople Gate and the Cerco Portas. There was the artillerist,
German John Grant, who, with Theodore Carystos, made sure of the Gate Charsias.
There was Leonardo de Langasco, another Genoese, keeper of the Wood Gate. There
was Gabriel Travisan; with four hundred other Venetians, he maintained the
stretch of wall on the harbor front between Point Demetrius and the Port St.
Peter. There was Pedro Guiliani, the Spanish Consul, assigned to the
guardianship of the wall on the sea side from Point Demetrius to the Port of
Julian. There also was stout Nicholas Gudelli; with the Emperor's brother, he
commanded the force in reserve. Now these, or the major part of them, may have
been Free Lances; yet they did not await the motion of Nicholas, the dilatory
Pope, and were faithful, and to-day exemplify the saying:

"That men may rise on stepping-stones     Of their dead selves to higher
things." CHAPTER V

COUNT CORTI RECEIVES A FAVOR

"Gracious Princess, the Italian, Count Corti, is at the door. He prays you to
hear a request from him." "Return, Lysander, and bring the Count." It was early
morning, with February in its last days. The visitor's iron shoes clanked
sharply on the marble floor of the reception room, and the absence of everything
like ornament in his equipment bespoke preparation for immediate hard service.
"I hope the Mother is keeping you well," she said, presenting her hand to him.
With a fervor somewhat more marked than common, he kissed the white offering,
and awaited her bidding. "My attendants are gone to the chapel, but I will hear
you--or will you lend us your presence at the service, and have the audience
afterwards?" "I am in armor, and my steed is at the door, and my men biding at
the Adrianople Gate; wherefore, fair Princess, if it be your pleasure, I will
present my petition now." In grave mistrust, she returned:

"God help us, Count! I doubt you have something ill to relate. Since the good
Gregory fled into exile to escape his persecutors, but more especially since
Cardinal Isidore attempted Latin mass in Sancta Sophia, and the madman Gennadius
so frightened the people with his senseless anathemas, [Footnote: The scene here
alluded to by the Princess Irene is doubtless the one so vividly described by
Gibbon as having taken place in Sancta Sophia, the 12th of December, 1452, being
the mass celebrated by Cardinal Isidore in an attempt to reconcile the Latin and
Greek factions. Enumerating the consequences of the same futile effort at
compromise, Von Hammer says: "Instead of uniting for the common defence, the
Greeks and Latins fled, leaving the churches empty; the priests refused the
sacrament to the dying who were not of their faith; the monks and nuns
repudiated confessors who acknowledged the _henoticon_ (decree ordaining the
reunion of the two churches); a spirit of frenzy took possession of the
convents; one _religieuse_, to the great scandal of all the faithful, adopted
the faith and costume of the Mussulmans, eating meat and adoring the Prophet.
Thus Lent passed." (Vol. II., p. 397.) To the same effect we read in the
Universal History of the Catholic Church (Vol. XXII., p. 103): "The religious
who affected to surpass others in sanctity of life and purity of faith,
following the advice of Gennadius and their spiritual advisers, as well as that
of the preachers and laity of their party, condemned the decree of union, and
anathematized those who approved or might approve it. The common people,
sallying from the monasteries, betook themselves to the taverns; there
flourishing glasses of wine, they reviled all who had consented to the union,
and drinking in honor of an image of the Mother of God, prayed her to protect
and defend the city against Mahomet, as she had formerly defended it against
Chosroes and the Kagan. We will have nothing to do with assistance from the
Latins or a union with them. Far from us be the worship of the _azymites_."] I
have been beset with forebodings until I startle at my own thoughts. It were
gentle, did you go to your request at once." She permitted him to lead her to an
armless chair, and, standing before her, he spoke with decision:

"Princess Irene, now that you have resolved finally to remain in the city, and
abide the issue of the siege, rightly judging it an affair determinable by God,
it is but saying the truth as I see it, that no one is more interested in what
betides us from day to day than you; for if Heaven frowns upon our efforts at
defence, and there comes an assault, and we are taken, the Conqueror, by a cruel
law of war, has at disposal the property both public and private he gains, and
every living thing as well. We who fight may die the death he pleases; you--
alas, most noble and virtuous lady, my tongue refuses the words that rise to it
for utterance!" The rose tints in her cheeks faded, yet she answered: "I know
what you would say, and confess it has appalled me. Sometimes it tempts me to
fly while yet I can; then I remember I am a Palaeologus. I remember also my
kinsman the Emperor is to be sustained in the trial confronting him. I remember
too the other women, high and low, who will stay and share the fortunes of their
fighting husbands and brothers. If I have less at stake than they, Count Corti,
the demands of honor are more rigorous upon me." The count's eyes glowed with
admiration, but next moment the light in them went out. "Noble lady," he began,
"I hope it will not be judged too great a familiarity to say I have some days
been troubled on your account. I have feared you might be too confident of our
ability to beat the enemy. It seems my duty to warn you of the real outlook that
you may permit us to provide for your safety while opportunities favor." "For my
flight, Count Corti?" "Nay, Princess Irene, your retirement from the city." She
smiled at the distinction he made, but replied:

"I will hear you, Count." "It is for you to consider, O Princess--if reports of
the Sultan's preparation are true--this assault in one feature at least will be
unparalleled. The great guns for which he has been delaying are said to be
larger than ever before used against walls. They may destroy our defences at
once; they may command all the space within those defences; they may search
every hiding-place; the uncertainties they bring with them are not to be
disregarded by the bravest soldier, much less the unresisting classes.... In the
next place, I think it warrantable from the mass of rumors which has filled the
month to believe the city will be assailed by a force much greater than was ever
drawn together under her walls. Suffer me to refer to them, O Princess... The
Sultan is yet at Adrianople assembling his army. Large bodies of footmen are
crossing the Hellespont at Gallipolis and the Bosphorus at Hissar; in the region
of Adrianople the country is covered with hordes of horsemen speaking all known
tongues and armed with every known weapon--Cossacks from the north, Arabs from
the south, Koords and Tartars from the east, Roumanians and Slavs from beyond
the Balkans. The roads from the northwest are lined with trains bringing
supplies and siege-machinery. The cities along the shores of the Black Sea have
yielded to Mahommed; those which defied him are in ruins. An army is devastating
Morea. The brother whom His Majesty the Emperor installed ruler there is dead or
a wanderer, no man can say in what parts. Assistance cannot be expected from
him. Above us, far as the sea, the bays are crowded with ships of all classes;
four hundred hostile sail have been counted from the hill-tops. And now that
there is no longer a hope of further aid from the Christians of Europe, the
effect of the news upon our garrison is dispiriting. Our garrison! Alas,
Princess, with the foreigners come to our aid, it is not sufficient to man the
walls on the landward side alone." "The picture is gloomy, Count, but if you
have drawn it to shake my purpose, it is not enough. I have put myself in the
hands of the Blessed Mother. I shall stay, and be done with as God orders."
Again the Count's face glowed with admiration. "I thought as much, O Princess,"
he said warmly; "yet it seemed to me a duty to advise you of the odds against
us; and now, the duty done, I pray you hear me as graciously upon another
matter.... Last night, seeing the need of information of the enemy, I besought
His Majesty to allow me to ride toward Adrianople. He consented, and I set out
immediately; but before going, before bidding you adieu, noble Princess and dear
lady, I have a prayer to offer you." He hesitated; then plucking courage from
the embarrassment of silence, went on:

"Dear lady, your resolution to stay and face the dangers of the siege and
assault fills me with alarm for your safety." He cast himself upon his knees,
and stretched his hands to her. "Give me permission to protect you. I devote my
sword to you, and the skill of my hands--my life, my soul. Let me be your
knight." She arose, but he continued:

"Some day, deeds done for your country and religion may give me courage to speak
more boldly of what I feel and hope; but now I dare go no further than ask what
you have just heard. Let me be your protector and knight through the perils of
the siege at least." The Princess was pleased with the turn his speech had
taken. She thought rapidly. A knight in battle, foremost in the press, her name
a conquering cry on his lips were but the constituents of a right womanly
ambition. She answered:

"Count Corti, I accept thy offer." Taking the hand she extended, he kissed it
reverently, and said:

"I am happy above other men. Now, O Princess, give me a favor--a glove, a scarf
--something I may wear, to prove me thy knight." She took from her neck a net of
knitted silk, pinkish in hue, and large enough for a kerchief or waist sash. "If
I go about this gift," she said, her face deeply suffused, "in a way to provoke
a smile hereafter; if in placing it around thy neck with my own hands"--with the
words, she bent over him, and dropped the net outside the hood so the ends hung
loosely down his breast--"I overstep any rule of modesty, I pray you will not
misunderstand me. I am thinking of my country, my kinsman, of religion and God,
and the service even unto noble deeds thou mayst do them. Rise, Count Corti. In
the ride before thee now, in the perils to come, thou shalt have my prayers."
The Count arose, but afraid to trust himself in further speech, he carried her
hand to his lips again, and with a simple farewell, hurried out, and mounting
his horse rode at speed for the Adrianople Gate. Four days after, he reentered
the gate, bringing a prisoner, and passing straight to the Very High Residence,
made report to the Emperor, Justiniani and Duke Notaras in council. "I have been
greatly concerned for you, Count," said Constantine; "and not merely because a
good sword can be poorly spared just now." The imperial pleasure was unfeigned.
"Your Majesty's grace is full reward for my performance," the Count replied, and
rising from the salutation, he began his recital. "Stay," said the Emperor, "I
will have a seat brought that you may be at ease." Corti declined: "The Arabs
have a saying, Your Majesty--'A nest for a setting bird, a saddle for a
warrior.' The jaunt has but rested me, and there was barely enough danger in
it.... The Turk is an old acquaintance. I have lived with him, and been his
guest in house and tent, and as a comrade tempted Providence at his side under
countless conditions, until I know his speech and usages, himself scarcely
better. My African Berbers are all Mohammedans who have performed the
Pilgrimage. One of them is a muezzin by profession; and if he can but catch
sight of the sun, he will never miss the five hours of prayer. None of them
requires telling the direction to Mecca.... I issued from Your Majesty's great
gate about the third hour, and taking the road to Adrianople, journeyed till
near midday before meeting a human being. There were farms and farmhouses on my
right and left, and the fields had been planted in good season; but the growing
grain was wasted; and when I sought the houses to have speech with their tenants
they were forsaken. Twice we were driven off by the stench of bodies rotting
before the doors." "Greeks?" "Greeks, Your Majesty.... There were wild hogs in
the thickets which fled at sight of us, and vultures devouring the corpses."
"Were there no other animals, no horses or oxen?" asked Justiniani. "None, noble
Genoese--none seen by us, and the swine were spared, I apprehend, because their
meat is prohibited to the children of Islam.... At length Hadifah, whom I have
raised to be a Sheik--Your Majesty permitting--and whose eyes discover the small
things with which space is crowded as he were a falcon making circles up near
the sun--Hadifah saw a man in the reeds hiding; and we pursued the wretch, and
caught him, and he too was a Greek; and when his fright allowed him to talk, he
told us a band of strange people, the like of whom he had never seen, attacked
his hut, burned it, carried off his goats and she buffaloes; and since that
hour, five weeks gone, he had been hunting for his wife and three girl-children.
God be merciful to them! Of the Turks he could tell nothing except that now,
everything of value gone, they too had disappeared. I gave the poor man a
measure of oaten cakes, and left him to his misery. God be merciful to him
also!" "Did you not advise him to come to me?" "Your Majesty, he was a husband
and father seeking his family; with all humility, what else is there for him to
do?" "I give your judgment credit, Count. There is nothing else." "I rode on
till night, meeting nobody, friend or foe--on through a wide district, lately
inhabited, now a wilderness. The creatures of the Sultan had passed through it,
and there was fire in their breath. We discovered a dried-up stream, and by
sinking in its bed obtained water for our horses. There, in a hollow, we spent
the night.... Next morning, after an hour's ride, we met a train of carts drawn
by oxen. The groaning and creaking of the distraught wheels warned me of the
encounter before the advance guard of mounted men, quite a thousand strong, were
in view. I did not draw rein"--

"What!" cried Justiniani, astonished. "With but a company of nine?" The Count
smiled. "I crave your pardon, gallant Captain. In my camp the night before, I
prepared my Berbers for the meeting." "By the bones of the saints, Count Corti,
thou dost confuse me the more! With such odds against thee, what preparations
were at thy command?" "'There was never amulet like a grain of wit in a purse
under thy cap.' Good Captain, the saying is not worse of having proceeded from a
Persian. I told my followers we were likely at any moment to be overtaken by a
force too strong for us to fight; but instead of running away, we must meet them
heartily, as friends enlisted in the same cause; and if they asked whence we
were, we must be sure of agreement in our reply. I was to be a Turk; they,
Egyptians from west of the Nile. We had come in by the new fortress opposite the
White Castle, and were going to the mighty Lord Mahommed in Adrianople. Beyond
that, I bade them be silent, leaving the entertainment of words to me." The
Emperor and Justiniani laughed, but Notaras asked: "If thy Berbers are
Mohammedans, as thou sayest, Count Corti, how canst thou rely on them against
Mohammedans?" "My Lord the High Admiral may not have heard of the law by which,
if one Arab kills another, the relatives of the dead man are bound to kill him,
unless there be composition. So I had merely to remind Hadifah and his
companions of the Turks we slew in the field near Basch-Kegan." Corti continued:
"After parley with the captain of the advance guard, I was allowed to ride on;
and coming to the train, I found the carts freighted with military engines and
tools for digging trenches and fortifying camps. There were hundreds of them,
and the drivers were a multitude. Indeed, Your Majesty, from head to foot the
caravan was miles in reach, its flanks well guarded by groups of horsemen at
convenient intervals." This statement excited the three counsellors. "After
passing the train," the Count was at length permitted to resume, "my way was
through bodies of troops continuously--all irregulars. It must have been about
three o'clock in the afternoon when I came upon the most surprising sight. Much
I doubt if ever the noble Captain Justiniani, with all his experience, can
recall anything like it. "First there was a great company of pioneers with tools
for grading the hills and levelling the road; then on a four-wheeled carriage
two men stood beating a drum; their sticks looked like the enlarged end of a
galley oar. The drum responded to their blows in rumbles like dull thunder from
distant clouds. While I sat wondering why they beat it, there came up next sixty
oxen yoked in pairs. Your Majesty can in fancy measure the space they covered.
On the right and left of each yoke strode drivers with sharpened goads, and
their yelling harmonized curiously with the thunder of the drum. The straining
of the brutes was pitiful to behold. And while I wondered yet more, a log of
bronze was drawn toward me big at one end as the trunk of a great plane tree,
and so long that thirty carts chained together as one wagon, were required to
support it laid lengthwise; and to steady the piece on its rolling bed, two
hundred and fifty stout laborers kept pace with it unremittingly watchful. The
movement was tedious, but at last I saw"--

"A cannon!" exclaimed the Genoese. "Yes, noble Captain, the gun said to be the
largest ever cast." "Didst thou see any of the balls?" "Other carts followed
directly loaded with gray limestones chiselled round; and to my inquiry what the
stones were for, I was told they were bullets twelve spans in circumference, and
that the charge of powder used would cast them a mile." The inquisitors gazed at
each other mutely, and their thoughts may be gathered from the action of the
Emperor. He touched a bell on a table, and to Phranza, who answered the call, he
said: "Lord Chamberlain, have two men well skilled in the construction of walls
report to me in the morning. There is work for them which they must set about at
once. I will furnish the money." [Footnote: Before the siege by the Turks, two
monks, Manuel Giagari and Neophytus of Rhodes, were charged with repairing the
walls, but they buried the sums intrusted to them for these works; and in the
pillage of the city seventy thousand pieces of gold thus advanced by the Emperor
were unearthed.--VON HAMMER, Vol. II., p. 417.] "I have but little more of
importance to engage Your Majesty's attention.... Behind the monster cannon, two
others somewhat smaller were brought up in the same careful manner. I counted
seventeen pieces all brass, the least of them exceeding in workmanship and power
the best in the Hippodrome." "Were there more?" Justiniani asked. "Many more,
brave Captain, but ancient, and unworthy mention.... The day was done when, by
sharp riding, I gained the rear of the train. At sunrise on the third day, I set
out in return.... I have a prisoner whom this august council may examine with
profit. He will, at least, confirm my report." "Who is he?" "The captain of the
advance guard." "How came you by him?" "Your Majesty, I induced him to ride a
little way with me, and at a convenient time gave his bridle rein to Hadifah. In
his boyhood the Sheik was trained to leading camels, and he assures me it is
much easier to lead a horse." The sally served to lighten the sombre character
of the Count's report, and in the midst of the merriment, he was dismissed. The
prisoner was then brought in, and put to question; next day the final
preparation for the reception of Mahommed was begun. With a care equal to the
importance of the business, Constantine divided the walls into sections,
beginning on the landward side of the Golden Gate or Seven Towers, and ending at
the Cynegion. Of the harbor front he made one division, with the Grand Gate of
Blacherne and the Acropolis or Point Serail for termini; from Point Serail to
the Seven Towers he stationed patrols and lookouts, thinking the sea and rocks
sufficient to discourage assault in that quarter. His next care was the
designation of commandants of the several divisions. The individuals thus
honored have been already mentioned; though it may be well to add how the Papal
Legate, Cardinal Isidore, doffing his frock and donning armor, voluntarily
accepted chief direction along the harbor--an example of martial gallantry which
ought to have shamed the lukewarm Greeks morosely skulking in their cells.
Shrewdly anticipating a concentration of effort against the Gate St. Romain, and
its two auxiliary towers, Bagdad and St. Romain, the former on the right hand
and the latter on the left, he assigned Justiniani to its defence. Upon the
walls, and in the towers numerously garnishing them, the gallant Emperor next
brought up his guns and machines, with profuse supplies of missiles. Then, after
flooding the immense ditch, he held a review in the Hippodrome, whence the
several detachments marched to their stations. Riding with his captains, and
viewing the walls, now gay with banners and warlike tricking, Constantine took
heart, and told how Amurath, the peerless warrior, had dashed his Janissaries
against them, and rued the day. "Is this boy Mahommed greater than his father?"
he asked. "God knows," Isidore responded, crossing himself breast and forehead.
And well content, the cavalcade repassed the ponderous Gate St. Romain. All that
could be done had been done. There was nothing more but to wait. CHAPTER VI

MAHOMMED AT THE GATE ST. ROMAIN

In the city April seemed to have borrowed from the delays of Mahommed; never
month so slow in coming. At last, however, its first day, dulled by a sky all
clouds, and with winds from the Balkans. The inertness of the young Sultan was
not from want of will or zeal. It took two months to drag his guns from
Adrianople; but with them the army moved, and as it moved it took possession, or
rather covered the land. At length, he too arrived, bringing, as it were, the
month with him; and then he lost no more time. About five miles from the walls
on the south or landward side, he drew his hordes together in the likeness of a
line of battle, and at a trumpet call they advanced in three bodies
simultaneously. So a tidal wave, far extending, broken, noisy, terrible, rises
out of the deep, and rolls upon a shore of stony cliffs. Near ten o'clock in the
forenoon of the sixth of April the Emperor mounted the roof of the tower of St.
Romain, mentioned as at the left of the gate bearing the same name. There were
with him Justiniani, the Cardinal Isidore, John Grant, Phranza, Theophilus
Palaeologus, Duke Notaras, and a number of inferior persons native and foreign.
He had come to see all there was to be seen of the Turks going into position.
The day was spring-like, with just enough breeze to blow the mists away. The
reader must think of the roof as an immense platform accessible by means of a
wooden stairway in the interior of the tower, and battlemented on the four
sides, the merlons of stone in massive blocks, and of a height to protect a tall
man, the embrasures requiring banquettes to make them serviceable. In
arrangement somewhat like a ship's battery, there are stoutly framed arbalists
and mangonels on the platform, and behind them, with convenient spaces between,
arquebuses on tripods, cumbrous catapults, and small cannon on high axles ready
for wheeling into position between the merlons. Near each machine its munitions
lie in order. Leaning against the walls there are also spears, javelins, and
long and cross bows; while over the corner next the gate floats an imperial
standard, its white field emblazoned with the immemorial Greek cross in gold.
The defenders of the tower are present; and as they are mostly Byzantines, their
attitudes betray much more than cold military respect, for they are receiving
the Emperor, whom they have been taught to regard worshipfully. They study him,
and take not a little pride in observing that, clad in steel cap-a-pie, he in no
wise suffers by comparison with the best of his attendants, not excepting
Justiniani, the renowned Genoese captain. Not more to see than be seen, the
visor of his helmet is raised; and stealing furtive glances at his countenance,
noble by nature, but just now more than ordinarily inspiring, they are better
and stronger for what they read in it. On the right and left the nearest towers
obstruct the view of the walls in prolongation; but southward the country
spreads before the party a campania rolling and fertile, dotted with trees
scattered and in thin groves, and here and there an abandoned house. The tender
green of vegetation upon the slopes reminds those long familiar with them that
grass is already invading what were lately gardens and cultivated fields.
Constantine makes the survey in silence, for he knows how soon even the grass
must disappear. Just beyond the flooded ditch at the foot of the first or
outward wall is a road, and next beyond the road a cemetery crowded with tombs
and tombstones, and brown and white mausolean edifices; indeed, the chronicles
run not back to a time when that marginal space was unallotted to the dead. From
the far skyline the eyes of the fated Emperor drop to the cemetery, and linger
there. Presently one of his suite calls out: "Hark! What sound is that?" They
all give attention. "It is thunder." "No--thunder rolls. This is a beat."
Constantine and Justiniani remembered Count Corti's description of the great
drum hauled before the artillery train of the Turks, and the former said calmly:

"They are coming." Almost as he spoke the sunlight mildly tinting the land in
the farness seemed to be troubled, and on the tops of the remote hillocks there
appeared to be giants rolling them up, as children roll snow-balls--and the
movement was toward the city. The drum ceased not its beating or coming.
Justiniani by virtue of his greater experience, was at length able to say:

"Your Majesty, it is here in front of us; and as this Gate St. Romain marks the
centre of your defences, so that drum marks the centre of an advancing line, and
regulates the movement from wing to wing." "It must be so, Captain; for see--
there to the left--those are bodies of men." "And now, Your Majesty, I hear
trumpets." A little later some one cried out:

"Now I hear shouting." And another: "I see gleams of metal." Ere long footmen
and horsemen were in view, and the Byzantines, brought to the wall by thousands,
gazed and listened in nervous wonder; for look where they might over the
campania, they saw the enemy closing in upon them, and heard his shouting, and
the neighing of horses, the blaring of horns, and the palpitant beating of
drums. "By our Lady of Blacherne," said the Emperor, after a long study of the
spectacle, "it is a great multitude, reaching to the sea here on our left, and,
from the noise, to the Golden Horn on our right; none the less I am
disappointed. I imagined much splendor of harness and shields and banners, but
see only blackness and dust. I cannot make out amongst them one Sultanic flag.
Tell me, most worthy John Grant--it being reported that thou hast great
experience combating with and against these hordes--tell me if this poverty of
appearance is usual with them." The sturdy German, in a jargon difficult to
follow, answered: "These at our left are the scum of Asia. They are here because
they have nothing; their hope is to better their condition, to return rich, to
exchange ragged turbans for crowns, and goatskin jackets for robes of silk.
Look, Your Majesty, the tombs in front of us are well kept; to-morrow if there
be one left standing, it will have been rifled. Of the lately buried there will
not be a ring on a finger or a coin under a tongue. Oh, yes, the ghouls will
look better next week! Only give them time to convert the clothes they will
strip from the dead into fresh turbans. But when the Janissaries come Your
Majesty will not be disappointed. See--their advance guard now--there on the
rising ground in front of the gate." There was a swell of ground to the right of
the gate rather than in front of it, and as the party looked thither, a company
of horsemen were seen riding slowly but in excellent order, and the sheen of
their arms and armor silvered the air about them. Immediately other companies
deployed on the right and left of the first one; then the thunderous drum
ceased; whereat, from the hordes out on the campania, brought to a sudden
standstill, detachments dashed forward at full speed, and dismounting, began
digging a trench. "Be this Sultan like or unlike his father, he is a soldier. He
means to cover his army, and at the same time enclose us from sea to harbor. To-
morrow, my Lord, only high-flying hawks can communicate with us from the
outside." This, from Justiniani to the Emperor, was scarcely noticed, for behind
the deploying Janissaries, there arose an outburst of music in deep volume, the
combination of clarions and cymbals so delightful to warriors of the East; at
the same instant a yellow flag was displayed. Then old John Grant exclaimed:

"The colors of the _Silihdars!_ Mahommed is not far away. Nay, Your Majesty,
look--the Sultan himself!" Through an interval of the guard, a man in chain mail
shooting golden sparkles, helmed, and with spear in hand and shield at his back,
trotted forth, his steed covered with flowing cloths. Behind him appeared a
suite mixed of soldiers and civilians, the former in warlike panoply, the latter
in robes and enormous turbans. Down the slope the foremost rider led as if to
knock at the gate. On the tower the cannon were loaded, and run into the
embrasures. "Mahommed, saidst thou, John Grant?" "Mahommed, Your Majesty." "Then
I call him rash; but as we are not ashamed of our gates and walls, let him have
his look in peace.... Hear you, men, let him look, and go in peace." The
repetition was in restraint of the eager gunners. Further remark was cut short
by a trumpet sounded at the foot of the tower. An officer peered over the wall,
and reported: "Your Majesty, a knight just issued from the gate is riding forth.
I take him to be the Italian, Count Corti." Constantine became a spectator of
what ensued. Ordinarily the roadway from the country was carried over the deep
moat in front of the Gate St. Romain by a floor of stout timbers well
balustraded at the sides, and resting on brick piers. Of the bridge nothing now
remained but a few loose planks side by side ready to be hastily snatched from
their places. To pass them afoot was a venture; yet Count Corti, when the
Emperor looked at him from the height, was making the crossing mounted, and
blowing a trumpet as he went. "Is the man mad?" asked the Emperor, in deep
concern. "Mad? No, he is challenging the Mahounds to single combat; and, my
lords and gentlemen, if he be skilful as he is bold, then, by the Three Kings of
Cologne, we will see some pretty work in pattern for the rest of us." Thus Grant
replied. Corti made the passage safely, and in the road beyond the moat halted,
and drove the staff of his banderole firmly in the ground. A broad opening
through the cemetery permitted him to see and be seen by the Turks, scarcely a
hundred yards away. Standing in his stirrups, he sounded the trumpet again--a
clear call ringing with defiance. Mahommed gave over studying the tower and
deep-sunken gate, and presently beckoned to his suite. "What is the device on
yon pennon?" he asked. "A moon with a cross on its face." "Say you so?" Twice
the defiance was repeated, and so long the young Sultan, sat still, his
countenance unusually grave. He recognized the Count; only he thought of him by
the dearer Oriental name, Mirza. He knew also how much more than common ambition
there was in the blatant challenge--that it was a reminder of the treaty between
them, and, truly interpreted, said, in effect: "Lo, my Lord! she is well, and
for fear thou judge me unworthy of her, send thy bravest to try me." And he
hesitated--an accident might quench the high soul. Alas, then, for the Princess
Irene in the day of final assault! Who would deliver her to him? The hordes, and
the machinery, all the mighty preparation, were, in fact, less for conquest and
glory than love. Sore the test had there been one in authority to say to him:
"She is thine, Lord Mahommed; thine, so thou take her, and leave the city." A
third time the challenge was delivered, and from the walls a taunting cheer
descended. Then the son of Isfendiar, recognizing the banderole, and not yet
done with chafing over his former defeat, pushed through the throng about
Mahommed, and prayed:

"O my Lord, suffer me to punish yon braggart." Mahommed replied: "Thou hast felt
his hand already, but go--I commend thee to thy houris." He settled in his
saddle smiling. The danger was not to the Count. The arms, armor, weapons, and
horse-furniture of the Moslem were identical with the Italian's; and it being
for the challenged party to determine with what the duel should be fought,
whether with axe, sword, lance or bow, the son of Isfendiar chose the latter,
and made ready while advancing. The Count was not slow in imitating him. Each
held his weapon--short for saddle service--in the left hand, the arrow in place,
and the shield on the left forearm. No sooner had they reached the open ground
in the cemetery than they commenced moving in circles, careful to keep the enemy
on the shield side at a distance of probably twenty paces. The spectators became
silent. Besides the skill which masters in such affrays should possess, they
were looking for portents of the result. Three times the foemen encircled each
other with shield guard so well kept that neither saw an opening to attack; then
the Turk discharged his arrow, intending to lodge it in the shoulder of the
other's horse, the buckling attachments of the neck mail being always more or
less imperfect. The Count interposed his shield, and shouted in Osmanli: "Out on
thee, son of Isfendiar! I am thy antagonist, not my horse. Thou shalt pay for
the cowardice." He then narrowed the circle of his movement, and spurring full
speed, compelled the Turk to turn on a pivot so reduced it was almost a halt.
The exposure while taking a second shaft from the quiver behind the right
shoulder was dangerously increased. "Beware!" the Count cried again, launching
his arrow through the face opening of the hood. The son of Isfendiar might never
attain his father's Pachalik. There was not voice left him for a groan. He
reeled in his saddle, clutching the empty air, then tumbled to the earth. The
property of the dead man, his steed, arms, and armor, were lawful spoils; but
without heeding them, the Count retired to his banderole, and, amidst the shouts
of the Greeks on the walls and towers, renewed the challenge. A score of chiefs
beset the Sultan for permission to engage the insolent _Gabour_. To an Arab
Sheik, loudest in importunity, he said: "What has happened since yesterday to
dissatisfy thee with life?" The Sheik raised a lance with a flexible shaft
twenty feet in length, made of a cane peculiar to the valley of the Jordan, and
shaking it stoutly, replied:

"Allah, and the honor of my tribe!" Perceiving the man's reliance in his weapon,
Mahommed returned: "How many times didst thou pray yesterday?" "Five times, my
Lord." "And to-day?" "Twice." "Go, then; but as yon champion hath not a lance to
put him on equality with thee, he will be justified in taking to the sword." The
Sheik's steed was of the most precious strain of El-Hejaz; and sitting high in
the saddle, a turban of many folds on his head, a striped robe drawn close to
the waist, his face thin, coffee-colored, hawk-nosed, and lightning-eyed, he
looked a king of the desert. Galloping down on the Christian, he twirled the
formidable lance dextrously, until it seemed not more than a stalk of dried
papyrus. The Count beheld in the performance a trick of the _djerid_ he had
often practised with Mahommed. Uncertain if the man's robe covered armor, he met
him with an arrow, and seeing it fall off harmless, tossed the bow on his back,
drew sword, and put his horse in forward movement, caracoling right and left to
disturb the enemy's aim. Nothing could be more graceful than this action.
Suddenly the Sheik stopped playing, and balancing the lance overhead, point to
the foe, rushed with a shrill cry upon him. Corti's friends on the tower held
their breath; even the Emperor said: "It is too unequal. God help him!" At the
last moment, however--the moment of the thrust--changing his horse to the right,
the Count laid himself flat upon its side, under cover of his shield. The
thrust, only a little less quick, passed him in the air, and before the Sheik
could recover or shorten his weapon, the trained foeman was within its sweep. In
a word, the Arab was at mercy. Riding with him side by side, hand on his
shoulder, the Count shouted: "Yield thee!" "Dog of a Christian, never! Do thy
worst." The sword twirled once--a flash--then it descended, severing the lance
in front of the owner's grip. The fragment fell to the earth. "Now yield thee!"
The Sheik drew rein. "Why dost thou not kill me?" "I have a message for thy
master yonder, the Lord Mahommed." "Speak it then." "Tell him he is in range of
the cannon on the towers, and only the Emperor's presence there restrains the
gunners. There is much need for thee to haste." "Who art thou?" "I am an Italian
knight who, though thy Lord's enemy, hath reason to love him. Wilt thou go?" "I
will do as thou sayest." "Alight, then. Thy horse is mine." "For ransom?" "No."
The Sheik dismounted grumblingly, and was walking off when the cheering of the
Greeks stung him to the soul. "A chance--O Christian, another chance--to-day--
to-morrow!" "Deliver the message; it shall be as thy Lord may then appoint.
Bestir thyself." The Count led the prize to the banderole, and flinging the
reins over it, faced the gleaming line of Janissaries once more, trumpet at
mouth. He saw the Sheik salute Mahommed; then the attendants closed around them.
"A courteous dog, by the Prophet!" said the Sultan. "In what tongue did he
speak?" "My Lord, he might have been bred under my own tent." The Sultan's
countenance changed. "Was there not more of his message?" He was thinking of the
Princess Irene. "Yes, my Lord." "Repeat it." "He will fight me again to-day or
to-morrow, as my Lord may appoint--and I want my horse. Without him, El-Hejaz
will be a widow." A red spot appeared on Mahommed's forehead. "Begone!" he cried
angrily. "Seest thou not, O fool, that when we take the city we will recover thy
horse? Fight thou shalt not, for in that day I shall have need of thee."
Thereupon he bade them open for him, and rode slowly back up the eminence, and
when he disappeared Corti was vainly sounding his trumpet. The two horses were
led across the dismantled bridge, and into the gate. "Heaven hath sent me a good
soldier," said the Emperor to the Count, upon descending from the tower. Then
Justiniani asked: "Why didst thou spare thy last antagonist?" Corti answered
truthfully. "It was well done," the Genoese returned, offering his hand. "Ay,"
said Constantine, cordially, "well done. But mount now, and ride with us." "Your
Majesty, a favor first.... A man is in the road dead. Let his body be placed on
a bier, and carried to his friends." "A most Christian request! My Lord
Chamberlain, attend to it." The cavalcade betook itself then to other parts, the
better to see the disposition of the Turks; and everywhere on the landward side
it was the same--troops in masses, and intrenchments in progress. Closing the
inspection at set of sun, the Emperor beheld the sea and the Bosphorus in front
of the Golden Horn covered with hundreds of sails. "The leaguer is perfected,"
said the Genoese. "And the issue with God," Constantine replied. "Let us to
Hagia St. Sophia." CHAPTER VII

THE GREAT GUN SPEAKS

The first sufficient gleam of light next morning revealed to the watchmen on the
towers an ominous spectacle. Through the night they had heard a medley of noises
peculiar to a multitude at work with all their might; now, just out of range of
their own guns, they beheld a continuous rampart of fresh earth grotesquely
spotted with marbles from the cemetery. In no previous siege of the Byzantine
capital was there reference to such a preliminary step. To the newly enlisted,
viewing for the first time an enemy bodily present, it seemed like the world
being pared down to the smallest dimensions; while their associate veterans, to
whom they naturally turned for comfort, admitted an appreciable respect for the
Sultan. Either he had a wise adviser, they said, or he was himself a genius.
Noon--and still the workmen seemed inexhaustible--still the rampart grew in
height--still the hordes out on the campania multiplied, and the horizon line
west of the Gate St. Romain was lost in the increasing smoke of a vast bivouac.
Nightfall--and still the labor. About midnight, judging by the sounds, the
sentinels fancied the enemy approached nearer the walls; and they were not
mistaken. With the advent of the second morning, here and there at intervals,
ill-defined mounds of earth were seen so much in advance of the intrenched line
that, by a general order, a fire of stones and darts was opened upon them; and
straightway bodies of bowmen and slingers rushed forward, and returned the fire,
seeking to cover the mound builders. This was battle. Noon again--and battle. In
the evening--battle. The advantage of course was with the besieged. The work on
the mounds meanwhile continued, while the campania behind the intrenchment was
alive with a creaking of wheels burdened by machinery, and a shouting of ox-
drivers; and the veterans on the walls said the enemy was bringing up his
balistas and mangonels. The third morning showed the mounds finished, and
crowned with mantelets, behind which, in working order and well manned, every
sort of engine known in sieges from Alexander to the Crusaders was in operation.
Thenceforward, it is to be observed, the battle was by no means one-sided. In
this opening there was no heat or furore of combat; it was rather the action of
novices trying their machines, or, in modern artillery parlance, finding the
range. Many minutes often intervened between shots, and as the preliminary
object on the part of the besiegers was to destroy the merlons sheltering the
warders, did a stone strike either wall near the top, the crash was saluted by
cheers. Now the foreigners defending were professionals who had graduated in all
the arts of town and castle taking. These met the successes of their antagonists
with derision. "Apprentices," they would say, "nothing but apprentices."... "See
those fellows by the big springal there turning the winch the wrong way!" ...
"The turbaned sons of Satan! Have they no eyes? I'll give them a lesson. Look!"
And if the bolt fell truly, there was loud laughter on the walls. The captains,
moreover, were incessantly encouraging the raw men under them. "Two walls, and a
hundred feet of flooded ditch! There will be merry Christmas in the next century
before the Mahounds get to us at the rate they are coming. Shoot leisurely, men
--leisurely. An infidel for every bolt!" Now on the outer wall, which was the
lower of the two, and naturally first to draw the enemy's ire, and then along
the inner, the Emperor went, indifferent to danger or fatigue, and always with
words of cheer. "The stones under our feet are honest," he would say. "The
Persian came thinking to batter them down, but after many days he fled; and
search as we will, no man can lay a finger on the face of one of them, and say,
'Here Chosroes left a scar.' So Amurath, sometimes called Murad, this young
man's father, wasted months, and the souls of his subjects without count; but
when he fled not a coping block had been disturbed in its bed. What has been
will be again. God is with us." When the three days were spent, the Greeks under
arms began to be accustomed to the usage, and make merry of it, like the
veterans. The fourth day about noon the Emperor, returning from a round of the
walls, ascended the Bagdad tower mentioned as overlooking the Gate St. Romain on
the right hand; and finding Justiniani on the roof, he said to him: "This
fighting, if it may be so called, Captain, is without heart. But two of our
people have been killed; not a stone is shaken. To me it seems the Sultan is
amusing us while preparing something more serious." "Your Majesty," the Genoese
returned, soberly, "now has Heaven given you the spirit of a soldier and the
eyes as well. Old John Grant told me within an hour that the yellow flag on the
rising ground before us denotes the Sultan's quarters in the field, and is not
to be confounded with his battle flag. It follows, I think, could we get behind
the Janissaries dismounted on the further slope of the rise, yet in position to
meet a sally, we would discover the royal tent not unwisely pitched, if, as I
surmise, this gate is indeed his point of main attack. And besides here are none
of the old-time machines as elsewhere along our front; not a catapult, or
bricole, or bible--as some, with wicked facetiousness, have named a certain
invention for casting huge stones; nor have we yet heard the report of a cannon,
or arquebus, or bombard, although we know the enemy has them in numbers.
Wherefore, keeping in mind the circumstance of his presence here, the omissions
satisfy me the Sultan relies on his great guns, and that, while amusing us, as
Your Majesty has said, he is mounting them. To-morrow, or perhaps next day, he
will open with them, and then"--

"What then?" Constantine asked. "The world will have a new lesson in warfare."
The Emperor's countenance, visible under his raised visor, knit hard. "Dear,
dear God!" he said, half to himself. "If this old Christian empire should be
lost through folly of mine, who will there be to forgive me if not Thou?" Then,
seeing the Genoese observing him with surprise, he continued:

"It is a simple tale, Captain.... A Dacian, calling himself Urban, asked
audience of me one day, and being admitted, said he was an artificer of cannon;
that he had plied his art in the foundries of Germany, and from study of powder
was convinced of the practicality of applying it to guns of heavier calibre than
any in use. He had discovered a composition of metals, he said, which was his
secret, and capable, when properly cast, of an immeasurable strain. Would I
furnish him the materials, and a place, with appliances for the work such as he
would name, I might collect the machines in my arsenal, and burn them or throw
them into the sea. I might even level my walls, and in their stead throw up
ramparts of common earth, and by mounting his guns upon them secure my capital
against the combined powers of the world. He refused to give me details of his
processes. I asked him what reward he wanted, and he set it so high I laughed.
Thinking to sound him further, I kept him in my service a few days; but becoming
weary of his importunities, I dismissed him. I next heard of him at Adrianople.
The Sultan Mahommed entertained his propositions, built him a foundry, and tried
one of his guns, with results the fame of which is a wonder to the whole East.
It was the log of bronze Count Corti saw on the road--now it is here--and Heaven
sent it to me first." "Your Majesty," returned the Genoese, impressed by the
circumstance, and the evident remorse of the Emperor, "Heaven does not hold us
accountable for errors of judgment. There is not a monarch in Europe who would
have accepted the man's terms, and it remains to be seen if Mahommed, as yet but
a callow youth, has not been cheated. But look yonder!" As he spoke, the
Janissaries in front of the gate mounted and rode forward, probably a hundred
yards, pursued by a riotous shouting and cracking of whips. Presently a train of
buffaloes, yoked and tugging laboriously at something almost too heavy for them,
appeared on the swell of earth; and there was a driver for every yoke, and every
driver whirled a long stick with a longer lash fixed to it, and howled lustily.
"It is the great gun," said Constantine. "They are putting it in position."
Justiniani spoke to the men standing by the machines: "Make ready bolt and
stone." The balistiers took to their wheels eagerly, and discharged a shower of
missiles at the Janissaries and ox-drivers. "Too short, my men--more range." The
elevation was increased; still the bolts fell short. "Bring forward the guns!"
shouted Justiniani. The guns were small bell-mouthed barrels of hooped iron,
muzzle loading, mounted on high wheels, and each shooting half a dozen balls of
lead large as walnuts. They were carefully aimed. The shot whistled and sang
viciously. "Higher, men!" shouted the Genoese, from a merlon. "Give the pieces
their utmost range." The Janissaries replied with a yell. The second volley also
failed. Then Justiniani descended from his perch. "Your Majesty," he said, "to
stop the planting of the gun there is nothing for us but a sally." "We are few,
they are many," was the thoughtful reply. "One of us on the wall is worth a
score of them in the field. Their gun is an experiment. Let them try it first."
The Genoese replied: "Your Majesty is right." The Turks toiled on, backing and
shifting their belabored trains, until the monster at last threatened the city
with its great black Cyclopean eye. "The Dacian is not a bad engineer," said the
Emperor. "See, he is planting other pieces." Thus Justiniani; for oxen in trains
similar to the first one came up tugging mightily, until by mid-afternoon on
each flank of the first monster three other glistening yellow logs lay on their
carriages in a like dubious quiet, leaving no doubt that St. Romain was to be
overwhelmed, if the new agencies answered expectations. If there was anxiety
here, over the way there was impatience too fierce for control. Urban, the
Dacian, in superintendency of the preparation, was naturally disposed to be
careful, so much, in his view, depended on the right placement of the guns; but
Mahommed, on foot, and whip in hand, was intolerant, and, not scrupling to mix
with the workmen, urged them vehemently, now with threats, now with promises of
reward. "Thy beasts are snails! Give me the goad," he cried, snatching one from
a driver. Then to Urban: "Bring the powder, and a bullet, for when the sun goes
down thou shalt fire the great gun. Demur not. By the sword of Solomon, there
shall be no sleep this night in yon _Gabour_ city, least of all in the palace
they call Blacherne." The Dacian brought his experts together. The powder in a
bag was rammed home; with the help of a stout slab, a stone ball was next rolled
into the muzzle, then pushed nakedly down on the bag. Of a truth there was need
of measureless strength in the composition of the piece. Finally the vent was
primed, and a slow-match applied, after which Urban reported:

"The gun is ready, my Lord." "Then watch the sun, and--_Bismillah!_--at its
going down, fire.... Aim at the gate--this one before us--and if thou hit it or
a tower on either hand, I will make thee a _begler-bey_." The gun-planting
continued. Finally the sun paused in cloudy splendor ready to carry the day down
with it. The Sultan, from his tent of many annexes Bedouin fashion, walked to
where Urban and his assistants stood by the carriage of the larger piece.
"Fire!" he said. Urban knelt before him. "Will my Lord please retire?" "Why
should I retire?" "There is danger." Mahommed smiled haughtily. "Is the piece
trained on the gate?" "It is; but I pray"--

"Now if thou wilt not have me believe thee a dog not less than an unbeliever,
rise, and do my bidding." The Dacian, without more ado, put the loose end of the
slow-match into a pot of live coals near by, and when it began to spit and
sputter, he cast it off. His experts fled. Only Mahommed remained with him; and
no feat of daring in battle could have won the young Padishah a name for courage
comparable to that the thousands looking on from a safe distance now gave him.
"Will my Lord walk with me a little aside? He can then see the ball going."
Mahommed accepted the suggestion. "Look now in a line with the gate, my Lord."
The match was at last spent. A flash at the vent--a spreading white cloud--a
rending of the air--the rattle of wheels obedient to the recoil of the gun--a
sound thunder in volume, but with a crackle sharper than any thunder--and we may
almost say that, with a new voice, and an additional terror, war underwent a
second birth. Mahommed's ears endured a wrench, and for a time he heard nothing;
but he was too intent following the flight of the ball to mind whether the
report of the gun died on the heights of Galata or across the Bosphorus at
Scutari. He saw the blackened sphere pass between the towers flanking the gate,
and speed on into the city--how far, or with what effect, he could not tell, nor
did he care. Urban fell on his knees. "Mercy, my Lord, mercy!" "For what? That
thou didst not hit the gate? Rise, man, and see if the gun is safe." And when it
was so reported, he called to Kalil, the Vizier, now come up: "Give the man a
purse, and not a lean one, for, by Allah! he is bringing Constantinople to me."
And despite the ringing in his ears, he went to his tent confident and happy. On
the tower meantime Constantine and the Genoese beheld the smoke leap forth and
curtain the gun, and right afterward they heard the huge ball go tearing past
them, like an invisible meteor. Their eyes pursued the sound--where the missile
fell they could not say--they heard a crash, as if a house midway the city had
been struck--then they gazed at each other, and crossed themselves. "There is
nothing for us now but the sally," said the Emperor. "Nothing," replied
Justiniani. "We must disable the guns." "Let us go and arrange it." There being
no indication of further firing, the two descended from the tower. The plan of
sortie agreed upon was not without ingenuity. The gate under the palace of
Blacherne called _Cercoporta_ was to be opened in the night. [Footnote: In the
basement of the palace of Blacherne there was an underground exit, Cercoporta or
gate of the Circus; but Isaac Comnenus had walled it up in order to avoid the
accomplishment of a prediction which announced that the Emperor Frederick would
enter Constantinople through it.... But before the siege by Mahommed the exit
was restored, and it was through it the Turks passed into the city.--VON HAMMER,
_Hist. de l'Empire Ottoman._] Count Corti, with the body-guard mounted, was to
pass out by it, and surprise the Janissaries defending the battery.
Simultaneously Justiniani should sally by the Gate St. Romain, cross the moat
temporarily bridged for the purpose, and, with the footmen composing the force
in reserve, throw himself upon the guns. The scheme was faithfully attempted.
The Count, stealing out of the ancient exit in the uncertain light preceding the
dawn, gained a position unobserved, and charged the careless Turks. By this time
it had become a general report that the net about his neck was a favor of the
Princess Irene, and his battle cry confirmed it--_For God and Irene!_ Bursting
through the half-formed opposition, he passed to the rear of the guns, and
planted his banderole at the door of Mahommed's tent. Had his men held together,
he might have returned with a royal prisoner. While attention was thus wholly
given the Count, Justiniani overthrew the guns by demolishing the carriages. A
better acquaintance with the operation known to moderns as "spiking a piece,"
would have enabled him to make the blow irreparable. The loss of Janissaries was
severe; that of the besieged trifling. The latter, foot and horse, returned by
the Gate St. Romain unpursued. Mahommed, aroused by the tumult, threw on his
light armor, and rushed out in time to hear the cry of his assailant, and pluck
the banderole from its place. At sight of the moon with the cross on its face,
his wrath was uncontrollable. The Aga in command and all his assistants were
relentlessly impaled. There were other sorties in course of the siege, but never
another surprise. CHAPTER VIII

MAHOMMED TRIES HIS GUNS AGAIN

Hardly had the bodies making the sortie retired within the gate when the
Janissaries on the eminence were trebly strengthened, and the noises in that
quarter, the cracking of whips, the shouting of ox-drivers, the hammering
betokened a prodigious activity. The besieged, under delusion that the guns had
been destroyed, could not understand the enemy. Not until the second ensuing
morning was the mystery solved. The watchmen on the towers, straining to pierce
the early light, then beheld the great bronze monster remounted and gaping at
them through an embrasure, and other monsters of a like kind on either side of
it, fourteen in all, similarly mounted and defended. The warders on the towers,
in high excitement, sent for Justiniani, and he in turn despatched a messenger
to the Emperor. Together on the Bagdad tower the two discussed the outlook.
"Your Majesty," said the Genoese, much chagrined, "the apostate Dacian must be
master of his art. He has restored the cannon I overthrew." After a time
Constantine replied: "I fear we have underrated the new Sultan. Great as a
father may be, it is possible for a son to be greater." Perceiving the Emperor
was again repenting the dismissal of Urban, the Captain held his peace until
asked: "What shall we now do?" "Your Majesty," he returned, "it is apparent our
sally was a failure. We slew a number of the infidels, and put their master--may
God confound him!--to inconvenience, and nothing more. Now he is on guard, we
may not repeat our attempt. My judgment is that we let him try his armament upon
our walls. They may withstand his utmost effort." The patience this required was
not put to a long test. There was a sudden clamor of trumpets, and the
Janissaries, taking to their saddles, and breaking right and left into
divisions, cleared the battery front. Immediately a vast volume of smoke hid the
whole ground, followed by a series of explosions. Some balls passing over the
defences ploughed into the city; and as definitions of force, the sounds they
made in going were awful; yet they were the least of the terrors. Both the
towers were hit, and they shook as if an earthquake were wrestling with them.
The air whitened with dust and fragments of crushed stone. The men at the
machines and culverins cowered to the floor. Constantine and the Genoese gazed
at each other until the latter bethought him, and ordered the fire returned. And
it was well done, for there is nothing which shall bring men round from fright
like action. Then, before there could be an exchange of opinion between the high
parties on the tower, a man in half armor issued from the slowly rising cloud,
and walked leisurely forward. Instead of weapons, he carried an armful of
stakes, and something which had the appearance of a heavy gavel. After a careful
examination of the ground to the gate, he halted and drove a stake, and from
that point commenced zigzagging down the slope, marking each angle. Justiniani
drew nearer the Emperor, and said, in a low voice: "With new agencies come new
methods. The assault is deferred." "Nay, Captain, our enemy must attack;
otherwise he cannot make the moat passable." "That, Your Majesty, was the
practice. Now he will gain the ditch by a trench." "With what object?" "Under
cover of the trench, he will fill the ditch." Constantine viewed the operation
with increased gravity. He could see how feasible it was to dig a covered way
under fire of the guns, making the approach and the bombardment simultaneous;
and he would have replied, but that instant a mob of laborers--so the spades and
picks they bore bespoke them--poured from the embrasure of the larger gun, and,
distributing themselves at easy working intervals along the staked line, began
throwing up the earth on the side next the city. Officers with whips accompanied
and stood over them. The engineer--if we may apply the modern term--was at
length under fire of the besieged; still he kept on; only when he exhausted his
supply of stakes did he retire, leaving it inferrible that the trench was to run
through the opening in the cemetery to the bridge way before the gate. At noon,
the laborers being well sunk in the ground, the cannon again vomited fire and
smoke, and with thunderous reports launched their heavy bullets at the towers.
Again the ancient piles shook from top to base. Some of the balistiers were
thrown down. The Emperor staggered under the shock. One ball struck a few feet
below a merlon of the Bagdad, and when the dust blew away, an ugly crack was
seen in the exposed face of the wall, extending below the roof. While the
inspection of damages immediately ordered is in progress, we take the liberty of
transporting the reader elsewhere, that he may see the effect of this amazing
warfare on other parties of interest in the tragedy. Count Corti was with his
guard at the foot of the tower when the first discharge of artillery took place.
He heard the loud reports and the blows of the shot which failed not their aim;
he heard also the sound of the bullets flying on into the city, and being of a
quick imagination, shuddered to think of the havoc they might inflict should
they fall in a thickly inhabited district. Then it came to him that the
residence of the Princess Irene must be exposed to the danger. Like a Christian
and a lover, he, sought to allay the chill he felt by signing the cross
repeatedly, and with unction, on brow and breast. The pious performance brought
no relief. His dread increased. Finally he sent a man with a message informing
the Emperor that he was gone to see what damage the guns had done in the city.
He had not ridden far when he was made aware of the prevalence of an
extraordinary excitement. It seemed the entire population had been brought from
their houses by the strange thunder, and the appalling flight of meteoric bodies
over their roofs. Men and women were running about asking each other what had
happened. At the corners he was appealed to:

"Oh, for Christ's sake, stop, and tell us if the world is coming to an end!"
Arid in pity lie answered: "Do not be so afraid, good people. It is the Turks.
They are trying to scare us by making a great noise. Go back into your houses."
"But the bullets which passed over us. What of them?" "Where did they strike?"
"On further. God help the sufferers!" One cry he heard so often it made an
impression upon him:

"The _Panagia!_ Tell His Majesty, as he is a Christian, to bring the Blessed
Madonna from the Chapel." With each leap of his horse he was now nearing the
alighting places of the missiles, and naturally the multiplying signs of terror
he observed, together with a growing assurance that the abode of the Princess
was in the range of danger, quickened his alarm for her. The white faces of the
women he met and passed without a word reminded him the more that she was
subject to the same peril, and in thought of her he forgot to sympathize with
them. In Byzantium one might be near a given point yet far away; so did the
streets run up and down, and here and there, their eccentricities in width and
direction proving how much more accident and whim had to do with them originally
than art or science. Knowing this, the Count was not sparing of his horse, and
as his blood heated so did his fancy. If the fair Princess were unhurt, it was
scarcely possible she had escaped the universal terror. He imagined her the
object of tearful attention from her attendants. Or perhaps they had run away,
and left her in keeping of the tender Madonna of Blacherne. At last he reached a
quarter where the throng of people compelled him to slacken his gait, then halt
and dismount. It was but a few doors from the Princess'. One house--a frame, two
stories--appeared the object of interest. "What has happened?" he asked,
addressing a tall man, who stood trembling and praying to a crucifix in his
hand. "God protect us, Sir Knight! See how clear the sky is, but a great stone--
some say it was a meteor--struck this house. There is the hole it made. Others
say it was a bullet from the Turks.--Save us, O Son of Mary!" and he fell to
kissing the crucifix. "Was anybody hurt?" the Count asked, shaking the devotee.
"Yes--two women and a child were killed.--Save us, O Son of God! Thou hast the
power from the Father." The Count picked his way toward the house till he could
get no further, so was it blocked by a mass of women on their knees, crying,
praying, and in agony of fright. There, sure enough, was a front beaten in,
exposing the wrecked interior. But who was the young woman at the door calmly
directing some men bringing out the body of one apparently dead? Her back was to
him, but the sunlight was tangled in her uncovered hair, making gold of it. Her
figure was tall and slender, and there was a marvellous grace in her action. Who
was she? The Count's heart was prophetic. He gave the bridle rein to a man near
by, and holding his sword up, pushed through the kneeling mass. He might have
been more considerate in going; but he was in haste, and never paused until at
the woman's side. "God's mercy, Princess Irene!" he cried, "what dost thou here?
Are there not men to take this charge upon them?" And in his joy at finding her
safe, he fell upon his knees, and, without waiting for her to offer the favor,
took one of her hands, and carried it to his lips. "Nay, Count Corti, is it not
for me to ask what thou dost here?" Her face was solemn, and he could hardly
determine if the eyes she turned to him were not chiding; yet they were full of
humid violet light, and she permitted him to keep the hand while he replied:

"The Turk is for the time having his own way. We cannot get to him.... I came in
haste to--to see what his guns have done--or--why should I not say it? Princess,
I galloped here fearing thou wert in need of protection and help. I remembered
that I was thy accepted knight." She understood him perfectly, and, withdrawing
her hand, returned: "Rise, Count Corti, thou art in the way of these bearing the
dead." He stood aside, and the men passed him with their burden--a woman
drenched in blood. "Is this the last one?" she asked them. "We could find no
other." "Poor creature! ... Yet God's will be done! ... Bear her to my house,
and lay her with the others." Then to the Count she said: "Come with me." The
Princess set out after the men. Immediately the women about raised a loud
lamentation; such as were nearest her cried out: "Blessings on you!" and they
kissed the hem of her gown, and followed her moaning and weeping. The body was
borne into the house, and to the chapel, and all who wished went in. Before the
altar, two others were lying lifeless on improvised biers, an elderly woman and
a half-grown girl. The Lady in picture above the altar looked down on them, as
did the Holy Child in her arms; and there was much comfort to the spectators in
the look. Then, when the third victim was decently laid out, Sergius began the
service for the dead. The Count stood by the Princess, her attendants in group a
little removed from them. In the midst of the holy ministration, a sound like
distant rolling thunder penetrated the chapel. Every one present knew what it
was by this time--knew at least it was not thunder--and they cried out, and
clasped each other--from their knees many fell grovelling on the floor. Sergius'
voice never wavered. Corti would have extended his arms to give the Princess
support; but she did not so much as change color; her hands holding a silver
triptych remained firm. The deadly bullets were in the air and might alight on
the house; yet her mind was too steadfast, her soul too high, her faith too
exalted for alarm; and if the Count had been prone to love her for her graces of
person, now he was prompted to adore her for her courage. Outside near by, there
was a crash as of a flying solid smiting another dwelling, and, without
perceptible interval, an outcry so shrill and unintermitted it required no
explanation. The Princess was the first to speak. "Proceed, Sergius," she said;
nor might one familiar with her voice have perceived any alteration in it from
the ordinary; then to the Count again: "Let us go out; there may be others
needing my care." At the door Corti said: "Stay, O Princess--a word, I pray."
She had only to look at his face to discover he was the subject of a fierce
conflict of spirit. "Have pity on me, I conjure you. Honor and duty call me to
the gate; the Emperor may be calling me; but how can I go, leaving you in the
midst of such peril and horrors?" "What would you have me do?" "Fly to a place
of safety." "Where?" "I will find a place; if not within these walls, then"--

He stopped, and his eyes, bright with passion, fell before hers; for the idea he
was about giving his tongue would be a doubly dishonorable coinage, since it
included desertion of the beleaguered city, and violation of his compact with
Mahommed. "And then?" she asked. And love got the better of honor. "I have a
ship in the harbor, O Princess Irene, and a crew devoted to me, and I will place
you on its deck, and fly with you. Doubt not my making the sea; there are not
Christians and Mohammedans enough to stay me once my anchor is lifted, and my
oars out; and on the sea freedom lives, and we will follow the stars to Italy,
and find a home." Again he stopped, his face this time wrung with sudden
anguish; then he continued:

"God forgive, and deal with me mercifully! I am mad! ... And thou, O Princess--
do thou forgive me also, and my words and weakness. Oh, if not for my sake, then
for that which carried me away! Or if thou canst not forget, pity me, pity me,
and think of the wretchedness now my portion. I had thy respect, if not thy
love; now both are lost--gone after my honor. Oh! I am most miserable--
miserable!" And wringing his hands, he turned his face from her. "Count Corti,"
she replied gently, "thou hast saved thyself. Let the affair rest here. I
forgive the proposal, and shall never remind thee of it. Love is madness. Return
to duty; and for me"--she hesitated--"I hold myself ready for the sacrifice to
which I was born. God is fashioning it; in His own time, and in the form He
chooses, He will send it to me.... I am not afraid, and be thou not afraid for
me. My father was a hero, and he left me his spirit. I too have my duty born
within the hour--it is to share the danger of my kinsman's people, to give them
my presence, to comfort them all I can. I will show thee what thou seemest not
to have credited--that a woman can be brave as any man. I will attend the sick,
the wounded, and suffering. To the dying I will carry such consolation as I
possess--all of them I can reach--and the dead shall have ministration. My goods
and values have long been held for the poor and unfortunate; now to the same
service I consecrate myself, my house, my chapel, and altar.... There is my hand
in sign of forgiveness, and that I believe thee a true knight. I will go with
thee to thy horse." He bowed his head, and silently struggling for composure,
carried the hand to his lips. "Let us go now," she said. They went out together.
Another dwelling had been struck; fortunately it was unoccupied. In the saddle,
he stayed to say: "Thy soul, O Princess Irene, is angelic as thy face. Thou hast
devoted thyself to the suffering. Am I left out? What word wilt thou give me?"
"Be the true knight thou art, Count Corti, and come to me as before." He rode
away with a revelation; that in womanly purity and goodness there is a power and
inspiration beyond the claims of beauty. The firing continued. Seven times that
day the Turks assailed the Gate St. Romain with their guns; and while a few of
the stones discharged flew amiss into the city, there were enough to still
further terrorize the inhabitants. By night all who could had retreated to
vaults, cellars, and such hiding-places as were safe, and took up their abodes
in them. In the city but one woman went abroad without fear, and she bore bread
and medicines, and dressed wounds, and assuaged sorrows, and as a Madonna in
fact divided worship with the Madonna in the chapel up by the High Residence.
Whereat Count Corti's love grew apace, though the recollection of the near fall
he had kept him humble and circumspect. The same day, but after the second
discharge of the guns, Mahommed entered the part of his tent which, with some
freedom, may be termed his office and reception-room, since it was furnished
with seats and a large table, the latter set upon a heavily tufted rug, and
littered over with maps and writing and drawing materials. Notable amongst the
litter was the sword of Solomon. Near it lay a pair of steel gauntlets elegantly
gilt. One stout centre-tree, the main support of the roof of camel's hair,
appeared gayly dressed with lances, shields, arms, and armor; and against it,
strange to say, the companion of a bright red battle-flag, leant the banderole
Count Corti had planted before the door the morning of the sally. A sliding flap
overhead, managed by cords in the interior, was drawn up, admitting light and
air. The office, it may be added, communicated by gay portieres with four other
apartments, each having its separate centre-tree; one occupied by Kalil, the
Vizier; one, a bed-chamber, so to speak; one, a stable for the imperial stud;
the fourth belonged to no less a person than our ancient and mysterious
acquaintance, the Prince of India. Mahommed was in half-armor; that is, his
neck, arms, and body were in chain mail, the lightest and most flexible of the
East, exquisitely gold-washed, and as respects fashion exactly like the suit
habitually affected by Count Corti. His nether limbs were clad in wide trousers
of yellow silk, drawn close at the ankles. Pointed shoes of red leather
completed his equipment, unless we may include a whip with heavy handle and long
lash. Could Constantine have seen him at the moment, he would have recognized
the engineer whose performance in tracing the trench he had witnessed with so
much interest in the morning. The Grand Chamberlain received him with the usual
prostration, and in that posture waited his pleasure. "Bring me water. I am
thirsty." The water was brought. "The Prince of India now." Presently the Prince
appeared in the costume peculiar to him--a cap and gown of black velvet, loose
trousers, and slippers. His hair and beard were longer than when we knew him a
denizen of Constantinople, making his figure seem more spare and old; otherwise
he was unchanged. He too prostrated himself; yet as he sank upon his knees, he
gave the Sultan a quick glance, intended doubtless to discover his temper more
than his purpose. "You may retire." This to the Chamberlain. Upon the
disappearance of the official, Mahommed addressed the Prince, his countenance
flushed, his eyes actually sparkling. "God is great. All things are possible to
him. Who shall say no when he says yes? Who resist when he bids strike? Salute
me, and rejoice with me, O Prince. He is on my side. It was he who spoke in the
thunder of my guns. Salute me, and rejoice. Constantinople is mine! The towers
which have outlasted the ages, the walls which have mocked so many conquerors--
behold them tottering to their fall! I will make dust of them. The city which
has been a stumbling-block to the true faith shall be converted in a night. Of
the churches I will make mosques. Salute me and rejoice! How may a soul contain
itself knowing God has chosen it for such mighty things? Rise, O Prince and
rejoice with me!" He caught up the sword of Solomon, and in a kind of ecstasy
strode about flourishing it. The Prince, arisen, replied simply: "I rejoice with
my Lord;" and folding his arms across his breast, he waited, knowing he had been
summoned for something more serious than to witness an outburst so wild--that
directly this froth would disappear, as bubbles vanish from wine just poured.
The most absolute of men have their ways--this was one of Mahommed's. And behind
his composed countenance the Jew smiled, for, as he read it, the byplay was an
acknowledgment of his influence over the chosen of God. And he was right.
Suddenly Mahommed replaced the sword, and standing before him, asked abruptly:

"Tell me, have the stars fixed the day when I may assault the Gabours?" "They
have, my Lord." "Give it to me." The Prince returned to his apartment, and came
back with a horoscope. "This is their decision, my Lord." In his character of
Messenger of the Stars, the Prince of India dispensed with every observance
implying inferiority. Without looking at the Signs, or at the planets in their
Houses; without noticing the calculations accompanying the chart; glancing
merely at the date in the central place, Mahommed frowned, and said:

"The twenty-ninth of May! Fifty-three days! By Allah and Mahomet arid Christ--
all in one--if by the compound the oath will derive an extra virtue--what is
there to consume so much time? In three days I will have the towers lording this
gate they call St. Romain in the ditch, and the ditch filled. In three days, I
say." "Perhaps my Lord is too sanguine--perhaps he does not sufficiently credit
the skill and resources of the enemy behind the gate--perhaps there is more to
do than he has admitted into his anticipations." Mahommed darted a look at the
speaker. "Perhaps the stars have been confidential with their messenger, and
told him some of the things wanting to be done." "Yes, my Lord." The calmness of
the Prince astonished Mahommed. "And art thou permitted to be confidential with
me?" he asked. "My Lord must break up this collection of his guns, and plant
some of them against the other gates; say two at the Golden Gate, one at the
Caligaria, and before the Selimbria and the Adrianople two each. He will have
seven left.... Nor must my Lord confine his attack to the landward side; the
weakest front of the city is the harbor front, and it must be subjected. He
should carry there at least two of his guns." "Sword of Solomon!" cried
Mahommed. "Will the stars show me a road to possession of the harbor? Will they
break the chain which defends its entrance? Will they sink or burn the enemy's
fleet?" "No; those are heroisms left for my Lord's endeavor." "Thou dost taunt
me with the impossible." The Prince smiled. "Is my Lord less able than the
Crusaders? I know he is not too proud to be taught by them. Once, marching upon
the Holy City, they laid siege to Nicea, and after a time discovered they could
not master it without first mastering Lake Ascanius. Thereupon they hauled their
ships three leagues overland, and launched them in the lake." [Footnote: VON
HAMMER, _Hist. de l'Emp. Ottoman._]

Mahommed became thoughtful. "If my Lord does not distribute the guns; if he
confines his attack to St. Romain, the enemy, in the day of assault, can meet
him at the breach with his whole garrison. More serious, if the harbor is left
to the Greeks, how can he prevent the Genoese in Galata from succoring them? My
Lord derives information from those treacherous people in the day; does he know
of the intercourse between the towns by boats in the night? If they betray one
side, will they be true to the other? My Lord, they are Christians; so are these
with whom we are at war." The Sultan sank into a seat; and satisfied with the
impression he had made, the Prince wisely allowed him his thoughts. "It is
enough!" said the former, rising. Then fixing his eye on his confederate, he
asked: "What stars told thee these things, O Prince?" "My Lord, the firmament
above is God's, and the sun and planets there are his mercifully to our common
use. But we have each of us a firmament of our own. In mine, Reason is the sun,
and of its stars I mention two--Experience and Faith. By the light of the three,
I succeed; when I refuse them, one or all, I surrender to chance." Mahommed
caught up the sword, and played with its ruby handle, turning it at angles to
catch its radiations; at length he said:

"Prince of India, thou hast spoken like a Prophet. Go call Kalil and Saganos."
CHAPTER IX

THE MADONNA TO THE RESCUE

We have given the opening of the siege of Byzantium by Mahommed with dangerous
minuteness, the danger of course being from the critic. We have posted the
warders on their walls, and over against them set the enemy in an intrenched
line covering the whole landward side of the city. We have planted Mahommed's
guns, and exhibited their power, making it a certainty that a breach in the wall
must be sooner or later accomplished. We have shown the effect of the fire of
the guns, not only on the towers abutting the gate which was the main object of
attack, but on the non-combatants, the women and children, in their terror
seeking safety in cellars, vaults, and accessible underground retreats. We have
carefully assembled and grouped those of our characters who have survived to
this trying time; and the reader is informed where they are, the side with which
their fortunes are cast, their present relations to each other, and the
conditions which environ them. In a word, the reader knows their several fates
are upon them, and the favors we now most earnestly pray are to be permitted to
pass the daily occurrences of the siege, and advance quickly to the end. Even
battles can become monotonous in narrative. The Sultan, we remark, adopted the
suggestions of the Prince of India. He distributed his guns, planting some of
them in front of the several gates of the city. To control the harbor, he, in
modern parlance, erected a battery on a hill by Galata; then in a night, he drew
a part of his fleet, including a number of his largest vessels, from Besich-
tasch on the Bosphorus over the heights and hollows of Pera, a distance of about
two leagues, and dropped them in the Golden Horn. These Constantine attacked.
Justiniani led the enterprise, but was repulsed. A stone bullet sunk his ship,
and he barely escaped with his life. Most of his companions were drowned; those
taken were pitilessly hung. Mahommed next collected great earthen jars--their
like may yet be seen in the East--and, after making them air-tight, laid a
bridge upon them out toward the single wall defending the harbor front. At the
further end of this unique approach he placed a large gun; and so destructive
was the bombardment thus opened that fire-ships were sent against the bridge and
battery. But the Genoese of Galata betrayed the scheme, and it was baffled. The
prisoners captured were hanged in view of the Greeks, and in retaliation
Constantine exposed the heads of a hundred and sixty Turks from the wall. On the
landward side Mahommed was not less fortunate. The zigzag trench was completed,
and a footing obtained for his men in the moat, whence they strove to undermine
the walls. Of the lives lost during these operations no account was taken, since
the hordes were the victims. Their bodies were left as debris in the roadway so
expensively constructed. Day after day the towers Bagdad and St. Romain were
more and more reduced. Immense sections of them tumbling into the ditch were
there utilized. Day after day the exchange of bullets, bolts, stones, and arrows
was incessant. The shouting in many tongues, heating of drums, and blowing of
horns not seldom continued far into the night. The Greeks on their side bore up
bravely. Old John Grant plied the assailants with his inextinguishable fire.
Constantine, in seeming always cheerful, never shirking, visited the walls; at
night, he seconded Justiniani in hastening needful repairs. Finally the steady
drain upon the stores in magazine began to tell. Provisions became scarce, and
the diminution of powder threatened to silence the culverins and arquebuses.
Then the Emperor divided his time between the defences and Sancta Sophia--
between duty as a military commander, and prayer as a Christian trustful in God.
And it was noticeable that the services at which he assisted in the ancient
church were according to Latin rites; whereat the malcontents in the monasteries
fell into deeper sullenness, and refused the dying the consolation of their
presence. Gennadius assumed the authority of the absent Patriarch, and was
influential as a prophet. The powerful Brotherhood of the St. James', composed
of able-bodied gentry and nobles who should have been militant at the gates,
regarded the Emperor as under ban. Notaras and Justiniani quarrelled, and the
feud spread to their respective followers. One day, about the time the Turkish
ships dropped, as it were, from the sky into the harbor, when the store of
powder was almost exhausted, and famine menaced the city, five galleys were
reported in the offing down the Marmora. About the same time the Turkish
flotilla was observed making ready for action. The hungry people crowded the
wall from the Seven Towers to Point Serail. The Emperor rode thither in haste,
while Mahommed betook himself to the shore of the sea. A naval battle ensued
under the eyes of the two. [Footnote: The following is a translation of Von
Hammer's spirited account of this battle:

"The 15th of April, 1453, the Turkish fleet, of more than four hundred sails,
issued from the bay of Phidalia, and directing itself toward the mouth of the
Bosphorus on the western side, cast anchor near the two villages to-day Besich-
tasch. A few days afterward five vessels appeared in the Marmora, one belonging
to the Emperor, and four to the Genoese. During the month of March they had been
unable to issue from Scio; but a favorable wind arising, they arrived before
Constantinople, all their sails unfurled. A division of the Turkish fleet, more
than a hundred and fifty in number, advanced to bar the passage of the Christian
squadron and guard the entrance to the harbor. The sky was clear, the sea
tranquil, the walls crowded with spectators. The Sultan himself was on the shore
to enjoy the spectacle of a combat in which the superiority of his fleet seemed
to promise him a certain victory. But the eighteen galleys at the head of the
division, manned by inexperienced soldiers, and too low at the sides, were
instantly covered with arrows, pots of Greek fire, and a rain of stones launched
by the enemy. They were twice repulsed. The Greeks and the Genoese emulated each
other in zeal. Flectanelli, captain of the imperial galley, fought like a lion;
Cataneo, Novarro, Balaneri, commanding the Genoese, imitated his example. The
Turkish ships could not row under the arrows with which the water was covered;
they fouled each other, and two took fire. At this sight Mahommed could not
contain himself; as if he would arrest the victory of the Greeks, he spurred his
horse in the midst of the ships. His officers followed him trying to reach the
vessels combating only a stone's throw away. The soldiers, excited by shame or
by fear, renewed the attack, but without success, and the five vessels, favored
by a rising wind, forced a passage through the opposition, and happily entered
the harbor."] The Christian squadron made the Golden Horn, and passed
triumphantly behind the chain defending it. They brought supplies of corn and
powder. The relief had the appearance of a merciful Providence, and forthwith
the fighting was renewed with increased ardor. Kalil the Vizier exhorted
Mahommed to abandon the siege. "What, retire now? Now that the gate St. Romain
is in ruins and the ditch filled?" the Sultan cried in rage. "No, my bones to
Eyoub, my soul to Eblis first. Allah sent me here to conquer." Those around
attributed his firmness, some to religious zeal, some to ambition; none of them
suspected how much the compact with Count Corti had to do with his decision. To
the lasting shame of Christian Europe, the arrival of the five galleys, and the
victory they achieved, were all of succor and cheer permitted the heroic
Emperor. But the unequal struggle wore on, and with each set of sun Mahommed's
hopes replumed themselves. From much fondling and kissing the sword of Solomon,
and swearing by it, the steel communicated itself to his will; while on the side
of the besieged, failures, dissensions, watching and labor, disparity in
numbers, inferiority in arms, the ravages of death, and the neglect of
Christendom, slowly but surely invited despair. Weeks passed thus. April went
out; and now it is the twenty-third of May. On the twenty-ninth--six days off--
the stars, so we have seen, will permit an assault. And on this day the time is
verging midnight. Between the sky and the beleaguered town a pall of clouds is
hanging thick. At intervals light showers filter through the pall, and the drops
fall perpendicularly, for there is no wind. And the earth has its wrap of
darkness, only over the seven hills of the old capital it appears to be in
double folds oppressively close. Darkness and silence and vacancy, which do not
require permission to enter by a gate, have possession of the streets and
houses; except that now and then a solitary figure, gliding swiftly, turns a
corner, pauses to hear, moves on again, and disappears as if it dropped a
curtain behind it. Desertion is the rule. The hush is awful. Where are the
people? To find each other friends go from cellar to cellar. There are vaults
and arched passages, crypts under churches and lordly habitations, deep, damp,
mouldy, and smelling of rotten air, sheltering families. In many districts all
life is underground. Sociality, because it cannot exist under such conditions
save amongst rats and reptiles, ceased some time ago. Yet love is not dead--
thanks, O Heaven, for the divine impulse!--it has merely taken on new modes of
expression; it shows itself in tears, never in laughter; it has quit singing, it
moans; and what moments mothers are not on their knees praying, they sit
crouched, and clasping their little ones, and listen pale with fear and want.
Listening is the universal habit; and the start and exclamation with which in
the day the poor creatures recognize the explosive thunder of Mahommed's guns
explain the origin of the habit. At this particular hour of the twenty-third of
May there are two notable exceptions to the statement that darkness, silence and
vacancy have possession of the streets and houses. By a combination of streets
most favorable for the purpose, a thoroughfare had come into use along which
traffic preferably drove its bulky commodities from St. Peter's on the harbor to
the Gates St. Romain and Adrianople; its greater distance between terminal
points being offset by advantages such as solidity, width and gentler grades. In
one of the turns of this very crooked way there is now a murky flush cast by
flambeaux sputtering and borne in hand. On either side one may see the fronts of
houses without tenants, and in the way itself long lines of men tugging with
united effort at some cumbrous body behind them. There is no clamor. The labor
is heavy, and the laborers in earnest. Some of them wear round steel caps, but
the majority are civilians with here and there a monk, the latter by the Latin
cross at his girdle an _azymite_. Now and then the light flashes back from a
naked torso streaming with perspiration. One man in armor rides up and down the
lines on horseback. He too is in earnest. He speaks low when he has occasion to
stop and give a direction, but his face seen in flashes of the light is serious,
and knit with purpose. The movement of the lines is slow; at times they come to
a dead stand-still. If the halt appears too long the horseman rides back and
comes presently to the black hull of a dismantled galley on rollers. The
stoppages are to shift the rollers forward. When the shifting is done, he calls
out: "Make ready, men!" Whereupon every one in the lines catches hold of a rope,
and at his "Now--for love of Christ!" there follows a pull with might, and the
hull drags on. In these later days of the siege there are two persons actively
engaged in the defence who are more wrought upon by the untowardness of the
situation than any or all their associates--they are the Emperor and Count
Corti. There should be no difficulty in divining the cause of the former's
distress. It was too apparent to him that his empire was in desperate straits;
that as St. Romain underwent its daily reduction so his remnant of State and
power declined. And beholding the dissolution was very like being an enforced
witness of his own dying. But Count Corti with the deepening of the danger only
exerted himself the more. He seemed everywhere present--now on the ruins of the
towers, now in the moat, now foremost in a countermine, and daily his
recklessness increased. His feats with bow and sword amazed his friends. He
became a terror to the enemy. He never tired. No one knew when he slept. And as
note was taken of him, the question was continually on the lip, What possesses
the man? He is a foreigner--this is not his home--he has no kindred here--what
can be his motive? And there were who said it was Christian zeal; others
surmised it was soldier habit; others again, that for some reason he was
disgusted with life; yet others, themselves of sordid natures, said the Emperor
affected him, and that he was striving for a great reward in promise. As in the
camps of the besiegers none knew the actual reason of Mahommed's persistence, so
here the secret of the activity which left the Count without a peer in
performance and daring went without explanation. A few--amongst them the Emperor
--were aware of the meaning of the red net about the Italian's neck--it shone so
frequently through the smoke and dust of hourly conflict as to have become a
subject of general observation--yet in the common opinion he was only the lady's
knight; and his battle cry, _For Christ and Irene--Now!_ did but confirm the
opinion. Time and time again, Mahommed beheld the doughty deeds of his rival,
heard his shout, saw the flash of his blade, sometimes near, sometimes afar, but
always where the press was thickest. Strange was it that of the two hosts he
alone understood the other's inspiration? He had only to look into his own
heart, and measure the force of the passion there. The horseman we see in charge
of the removal of the galley-hulk this night of the twenty-third of May is Count
Corti. It is wanted at St. Romain. The gate is a hill of stone and mortar,
without form; the moat almost level from side to side; and Justiniani has
decided upon a barricade behind a new ditch. He will fill the hull with stones,
and defend from its deck; and it must be on the ground by break of day.
Precisely as Count Corti was bringing the galley around the turn of the
thoroughfare, Constantine was at the altar in Sancta Sophia where preparations
for mass were making; that is, the priests were changing their vestments, and
the acolytes lighting the tall candles. The Emperor sat in his chair of state
just inside the brass railing, unattended except by his sword-bearer. His hands
were on his knees, his head bowed low. He was acknowledging a positive need of
prayer. The ruin at the gate was palpable; but God reigned, and might be
reserving his power for a miraculous demonstration. The preparation was about
finished when, from the entrances of the Church opposite the nave, a shuffling
of many feet was heard. The light in that quarter was weak, and some moments
passed before the Emperor perceived a small procession advancing, and arose. The
garbs were of orthodox Brotherhoods which had been most bitter in their
denunciation. None of them had approached the door of the holy house for weeks.
The imperial mind was greatly agitated by the sight. Were the brethren recanting
their unpatriotic resolutions? Had Heaven at last given them an understanding of
the peril of the city? Had it brought to them a realization of the consequences
if it fell under the yoke of the Turk?--That the whole East would then be lost
to Christendom, with no date for its return? A miracle!--and to God the glory!
And without a thought of himself the devoted man walked to the gate of the
railing, and opening it, waited to receive the penitents. Before him in front of
the gate they knelt--in so far they yielded to custom. "Brethren," he said,
"this high altar has not been honored with your presence for many days. As
Basileus, I bid you welcome back, and dare urge the welcome in God's holy name.
Reason instructs me that your return is for a purpose in some manner connected
with the unhappy condition in which our city and empire, not to mention our
religion, are plunged. Rise, one of you, and tell me to what your appearance at
this solemn hour is due." A brother in gray, old and stooped, arose, and
replied:

"Your Majesty, it cannot be that you are unacquainted with the traditions of
ancient origin concerning Constantinople and Hagia Sophia; forgive us, however,
if we fear you are not equally well informed of a more recent prophecy,
creditably derived, we think, and presume to speak of its terms. 'The infidels'
--so the prediction runs--'will enter the city; but the instant they arrive at
the column of Constantine the Great, an angel will descend from Heaven, and put
a sword in the hands of a man of low estate seated at the foot of the column,
and order him to avenge the people of God with it. Overcome by sudden terror,
the Turks will then take to flight, and be driven, not only from the city, but
to the frontier of Persia.' [Footnote: Von Hammer.] This prediction relieves us,
and all who believe in it, from fear of Mahommed and his impious hordes, and we
are grateful to Heaven for the Divine intervention. But, Your Majesty, we think
to be forgiven, if we desire the honor of the deliverance to be accounted to the
Holy Mother who has had our fathers in care for so many ages, and redeemed them
miraculously in instances within Your Majesty's knowledge. Wherefore to our
purpose.... We have been deputed by the Brotherhoods in Constantinople, united
in devotion to the Most Blessed Madonna of Blacherne, to pray your permission to
take the _Panagia_ from the Church of the Virgin of Hodegetria, where it has
been since the week of the Passover, and intrust it to the pious women of the
city. To-morrow at noon, Your Majesty consenting, they will assemble at the
Acropolis, and with the banner at their head, go in procession along the walls
and to every threatened gate, never doubting that at the sight of it the Sultan
and his unbaptized hordes will be reft of breath of body or take to flight....
This we pray of Your Majesty, that the Mother of God may in these degenerate
days have back the honor and worship accorded her by the Emperors and Greeks of
former times." The old man ceased, and again fell upon his knees, while his
associate deputies rang the space with loud _Amens_. It was well the light was
dim, and the Emperor's face in shadow; it was well the posture of the
petitioners helped hide him from close study; a feeling mixed of pity, contempt,
and unutterable indignation seized him, distorting his features, and shaking his
whole person. Recantation and repentance!--Pledge of loyalty!--Offer of service
at the gates and on the shattered walls!--Heaven help him! There was no word of
apology for their errors and remissness--not a syllable in acknowledgment of his
labors and services--and he about to pray God for strength to die if the need
were, as became the Emperor of a brave and noble people! An instant he stood
gazing at them--an instant of grief, shame, mortification, indignation, all
heightened by a burning sense of personal wrong. Ay, God help him! "Bear with me
a little," he said quietly, and passing the waiting priests, went and knelt upon
a step of the altar in position to lay his head upon the upper step. Minutes
passed thus. The deputies supposed him praying for the success of the morrow's
display; he was in fact praying for self-possession to answer them as his
judgment of policy demanded. At length he arose, and returned to them, and had
calmness to say:

"Arise, brethren, and go in peace. The keeper of the Church will deliver the
sacred banner to the pious women. Only I insist upon a condition; if any of them
are slain by the enemy, whom you and they know to have been bred in denial of
womanly virtue, scorning their own mothers and wives, and making merchandise of
their daughters--if any of them be slain, I say, then you shall bear witness to
those who sent you to me that I am innocent of the blood-guilt. Arise, and go in
peace." They marched out of the Church as they had come in, and he proceeded
with the service. Next day about ten o'clock in the morning there was a lull in
the fighting at the Gate St. Romain. It were probably better to say the Turks
for some reason rested from their work of bringing stones, tree-trunks, earth in
hand carts, and timbers wrenched from houses--everything, in fact, which would
serve to substantially fill the moat in that quarter. Then upon the highest heap
of what had been the tower of Bagdad Count Corti appeared, a black shield on his
arm, his bow in one hand, his banderole in the other. "Have a care, have a
care!" his friends halloed. "They are about firing the great gun." Corti seemed
not to hear, but deliberately planted the banderole, and blowing his trumpet
three times, drew an arrow from the quiver at his back. The gun was discharged,
the bullet striking below him. When the dust cleared away, he replied with his
trumpet. Then the Turks, keeping their distance, set up a cry. Most of the
arrows shot at him fell short. Seeing their indisposition to accept his
challenge, he took seat upon a stone. Not long then until a horseman rode out
from the line of Janissaries still guarding the eminence, and advanced down the
left of the zigzag galloping. He was in chain mail glistening like gold, but
wore flowing yellow trousers, while his feet were buried in shoe-stirrups of the
royal metal. Looking over the small round black shield on his left arm, and
holding a bow in the right hand, easy in the saddle, calm, confident, the
champion slackened speed when within arrow flight, but commenced caracoling
immediately. A prolonged hoarse cry arose behind him. Of the Christians, the
Count alone recognized the salute of the Janissaries, still an utterance amongst
Turkish soldiers, in literal translation: _The Padishah! Live the Padishah!_ The
warrior was Mahommed himself! Arising, the Count placed an arrow at the string,
and shouted, "_For Christ and Irene--Now!_" With the last word, he loosed the
shaft. Catching the missile lightly on his shield, Mahommed shouted back:
"_Allah-il-Allah!_" and sent a shaft in return. The exchange continued some
minutes. In truth, the Count was not a little proud of the enemy's performance.
If there was any weakness on his part, if his clutch of the notch at the instant
of drawing the string was a trifle light, the fault was chargeable to a passing
memory. This antagonist had been his pupil. How often in the school field,
practising with blunted arrows, the two had joyously mimicked the encounter they
were now holding. At last a bolt, clanging dully, dropped from the Sultan's
shield, and observing that it was black feathered, he swung from his seat to the
ground, and, shifting the horse between him and the foe, secured the missile,
and remounted. _"Allah-il-Allah! "_ he cried, slowly backing the charger out of
range. The Count repeated the challenge through his trumpet, and sat upon the
stone again; but no other antagonist showing himself, he at length descended
from the heap. In his tent Mahommed examined the bolt; and finding the head was
of lead, he cut it open, and extracted a scrip inscribed thus:

"To-day at noon a procession of women will appear on the walls. You may know it
by the white banner a monk will bear, with a picture of the Madonna painted on
it. _The Princess Irene marches next after the banner._"

Mahommed asked for the time. It was half after ten o'clock. In a few minutes the
door was thronged by mounted officers, who, upon receiving a verbal message from
him, sped away fast as they could go. Thereupon the conflict was reopened.
Indeed, it raged more fiercely than at any previous time, the slingers and
bowmen being pushed up to the outer edge of the moat, and the machines of every
kind plied over their heads. In his ignorance of the miracle expected of the
Lady of the Banner, Mahommed had a hope of deterring the extraordinary march.
Nevertheless at the appointed hour, ten o'clock, the Church of the Virgin of
Hodegetria was surrounded by nuns and monks; and presently the choir of Sancta
Sophia issued from the house, executing a solemn chant; the Emperor followed in
Basilean vestments; then the _Panagia_ appeared. At sight of the picture of the
Very Holy Virgin painted front view, the eyes upraised, the hands in posture of
prayer, the breast covered by a portrait of the Child, the heads encircled by
the usual nimbus, the mass knelt, uttering cries of adoration. The Princess
Irene, lightly veiled and attired in black, advanced, and, kissing the fringed
corners of the hallowed relic, gathered the white staying ribbons in her hands;
thereupon the monk appointed to carry it moved after the choir, and the nuns
took places. And there were tears and sighs, but not of fear. The Mother of God
would now assume the deliverance of her beloved capital. As it had been to the
Avars, and later to the Russians under Askold and Dir, it would be now to
Mahommed and his ferocious hordes--all Heaven would arm to punish them. They
would not dare look at the picture twice, or if they did--well, there are many
modes of death, and it will be for the dear Mother to choose. Thus the women
argued. Possibly a perception of the failure in the defence, sharpened by a
consciousness of the horrors in store for them if the city fell by assault,
turned them to this. There is no relief from despair like faith. From the little
church, the devotees of the Very Holy Virgin took their way on foot to the
southeast, chanting as they went, and as they went their number grew. Whence the
accessions, none inquired. They first reached a flight of steps leading to the
banquette or footway along the wall near the Golden Gate. The noise of the
conflict, the shouting and roar of an uncounted multitude of men in the heat and
fury of combat, not to more than mention the evidences of the conflict--arrows,
bolts, and stones in overflight and falling in remittent showers--would have
dispersed them in ordinary mood; but they were under protection--the Madonna was
leading them--to be afraid was to deny her saving grace. And then there was no
shrinking on the part of the Princess Irene. Even as she took time and song from
the choir, they borrowed of her trust. At the foot of the steps the singers
turned aside to allow the _Panagia_ to go first. The moment of miracle was come!
What form would the manifestation take? Perhaps the doors and windows of Heaven
would open for a rain of fire--perhaps the fighting angels who keep the throne
of the Father would appear with swords of lightning--perhaps the Mother and Son
would show themselves. Had they not spared and converted the Khagan of the
Avars? Whatever the form, it were not becoming to stand between the _Panagia_
and the enemy. The holy man carrying the ensign was trustful as the women, and
he ascended the steps without faltering. Gathering the ribbons a little more
firmly in her hands, the Princess kept her place. Up--up they were borne--Mother
and Son. Then the white banner was on the height--seen first by the Greeks
keeping the wall, and in the places it discovered them, they fell upon their
faces, next by the hordes. And they--oh, a miracle, a miracle truly!--they stood
still. The bowman drawing his bow, the slinger whirling his sling, the
arquebusers taking aim matches in hand, the strong men at the winches of the
mangonels, all stopped--an arresting hand fell on them--they might have been
changed to pillars of stone, so motionlessly did they stand and look at the
white apparition. _Kyrie Eleison_, thrice repeated, then _Christie Eleison_,
also thrice repeated, descended to them in the voices of women, shrilled by
excitement. And the banner moved along the wall, not swiftly as if terror had to
do with its passing, but slowly, the image turned outwardly, the Princess next
it, the ribbons in her hands; after her the choir in full chant; and then the
long array of women in ecstasy of faith and triumph; for before they were all
ascended, the hordes at the edge of the moat, and those at a distance--or rather
such of them as death or wounds would permit--were retreating to their
entrenchment. Nor that merely--the arrest which had fallen at the Golden Gate
extended along the front of leaguerment from the sea to Blacherne, from
Blacherne to the Acropolis. So it happened that in advance of the display of the
picture, without waiting for the _Kyrie Eleison_ of the glad procession, the
Turks took to their defences; and through the city, from cellar, and vault, and
crypt, and darkened passage, the wonderful story flew; and there being none to
gainsay or explain it, the miracle was accepted, and the streets actually showed
signs of a quick return to their old life. Even the very timid took heart, and
went about thanking God and the _Panagia Blachernitissa_. And here and there the
monks passed, sleek and blithe, and complacently twirling the Greek crosses at
the whip-ends of their rosaries of polished horn buttons large as walnuts,
saying:

"The danger is gone. See what it is to have faith! Had we kept on trusting the
_azymites_, whether Roman cardinal or apostate Emperor, a muezzin would ere
long, perhaps to-morrow, be calling to prayer from the dome of Hagia Sophia.
Blessed be the _Panagia!_ To-night let us sleep; and then--then we will dismiss
the mercenaries with their Latin tongues." But there will be skeptics to the
last hour of the last day; so is the world made of kinds of men. Constantine and
Justiniani did not disarm or lay aside their care. In unpatriotic distrust, they
kept post behind the ruins of St. Romain, and saw to it that the labor of
planting the hull of the galley for a new wall, strengthened with another ditch
of dangerous depth and width, was continued. And they were wise; for about four
o'clock in the afternoon, there was a blowing of horns on the parapet by the
monster gun, and five heralds in tunics stiff with gold embroidery, and trousers
to correspond--splendid fellows, under turbans like balloons, each with a
trumpet of shining silver--set out for the gate, preceding a stately unarmed
official. The heralds halted now and then to execute a flourish. Constantine,
recognizing an envoy, sent Justiniani and Count Corti to meet him beyond the
moat, and they returned with the Sultan's formal demand for the surrender of the
city. The message was threatening and imperious. The Emperor replied offering to
pay tribute. Mahommed rejected the proposal, and announced an assault. The
retirement of the hordes at sight of the _Panagia_ on the wall was by Mahommed's
order. His wilfulness extended to his love--he did not intend the Princess Irene
should suffer harm. CHAPTER X

THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ASSAULT

The artillery of Mahommed had been effective, though not to the same degree,
elsewhere than at St. Romain. Jerome the Italian and Leonardo di Langasco the
Genoese, defending the port of Blacherne in the lowland, had not been able to
save the Xiloporta or Wood Gate on the harbor front harmless; under pounding of
the floating battery it lay in the dust, like a battered helmet. John Grant and
Theodore de Carystos looked at the green hills of Eyoub in front of the gate
Caligaria or Charsias, assigned to them, through fissures and tumbles-down which
made their hearts sore. The Bochiardi brothers, Paul and Antonin, had fared no
better in their defence of the gate Adrianople. At the gate Selimbria,
Theophilus Palaeologus kept the Imperial flag flying, but the outer faces of the
towers there were in the ditch serving the uses of the enemy. Contarino the
Venetian, on the roof of the Golden Gate, was separated from the wall reaching
northward to Selimbria by a breach wide enough to admit a chariot. Gabriel
Trevisan, with his noble four hundred Venetians, kept good his grip on the
harbor wall from the Acropolis to the gate of St. Peter's. Through the
incapacity or treason of Duke Notaras, the upper portion of the Golden Horn was
entirely lost to the Christians. From the Seven Towers to Galata the Ottoman
fleet held the wall facing the Marmora as a net of close meshes holds the space
of water it is to drag. In a word, the hour for assault had arrived, and from
the twenty-fourth to evening of the twenty-eighth of May Mahommed diligently
prepared for the event. The attack he reduced to a bombardment barely sufficient
to deter the besiegers from systematic repairs. The reports of his guns were but
occasionally heard. At no time, however, was the energy of the man more
conspicuous. Previously his orders to chief officers in command along the line
had been despatched to them; now he bade them to personal attendance; and, as
may be fancied, the scene at his tent was orientally picturesque from sunrise to
sunset. Such an abounding of Moslem princes and princes not Moslem, of Pachas,
and Beys, and Governors of Castles, of Sheiks, and Captains of hordes without
titles; such a medley of costumes, and armor, and strange ensigns; such a forest
of tall shafts flying red horse-tails; such a herding of caparisoned steeds;
such a company of trumpeters and heralds--had seldom if ever been seen. It
seemed the East from the Euphrates and Red Sea to the Caspian, and the West far
as the Iron Gates of the Danube, were there in warlike presence. Yet for the
most part these selected lions of tribes kept in separate groups and regarded
each other askance, having feuds and jealousies amongst themselves; and there
was reason for their good behavior--around them, under arms, were fifteen
thousand watchful Janissaries, the flower of the Sultan's host, of whom an old
chronicler has said, Each one is a giant in stature, and the equal of ten
ordinary men. Throughout those four days but one man had place always at
Mahommed's back, his confidant and adviser--not Kalil, it is to be remarked, or
Saganos, or the Mollah Kourani, or Akschem-sed-din the Dervish. "My Lord," the
Prince of India had argued when the Sultan resolved to summon his vassal chiefs
to personal conference, "all men love splendor; pleasing the eye is an
inducement to the intelligent; exciting the astonishment of the vulgar disposes
them to submit to superiority in another without wounding their vanity. The
Rajahs in my country practise this philosophy with a thorough understanding.
Having frequently to hold council with their officials, into the tent or hall of
ceremony they bring their utmost riches. The lesson is open to my Lord." So when
his leaders of men were ushered into the audience, the interior of Mahommed's
tent was extravagantly furnished, and their prostrations were at the step of a
throne. Nevertheless in consenting to the suggestion, the Sultan had insisted
upon a condition. "They shall not mistake me for something else than a warrior--
a politician or a diplomatist, for instance--or think the heaviest blow I can
deal is with the tongue or a pen. Art thou hearing, Prince?" "I hear, my Lord."
"So, by the tomb of the Prophet--may his name be exalted!--my household, viziers
and all, shall stand at my left; but here on my right I will have my horse in
panoply; and he shall bear my mace and champ his golden bit, and be ready to
tread on such of the beggars as behave unseemly." And over the blue and yellow
silken rugs of Khorassan, with which the space at the right of the throne was
spread, the horse, bitted and house led, had free range, an impressive reminder
of the master's business of life. As they were Christians or Moslems, Mahommed
addressed the vassals honored by his summons, and admitted separately to his
presence; for the same arguments might not be pleasing to both. "I give you
trust," he would say to the Christian, "and look for brave and loyal service
from you.... I shall be present with you, and as an eyewitness judge of your
valor, and never had men such incentives. The wealth of ages is in the walls
before us, and it shall be yours--money, jewels, goods and people--all yours as
you can lay hands on it. I reserve only the houses and churches. Are you poor,
you may go away rich; if rich, you may be richer; for what you get will be
honorable earnings of your right hand of which none shall dispossess you--and to
that treaty I swear.... Rise now, and put your men in readiness. The stars have
promised me this city, and their promises are as the breath of the God we both
adore." Very different in style and matter were his utterances to a Moslem.
"What is that hanging from thy belt?" "It is a sword, my Lord." "God is God, and
there is no other God--_Amin!_ And he it was who planted iron in the earth, and
showed the miner where it was hid, and taught the armorer to give it form, and
harden it, even the blade at thy belt; for God had need of an instrument for the
punishment of those who say 'God hath partners.' ... And who are they that say
'God hath partners--a Son and his Mother'? Here have they their stronghold; and
here have we been brought to make roads through its walls, and turn their
palaces of unbelief into harems. For that thou hast thy sword, and I mine--
_Amin!_... It is the will of God that we despoil these _Gabours_ of their wealth
and their women; for are they not of those of whom it is said: 'In their hearts
is a disease, and God hath increased their disease, and for them is ordained a
painful punishment, because they have charged the Prophet of God with
falsehood'? That they who escape the sharpness of our swords shall be as
beggars, and slaves, and homeless wanderers--such is the punishment, and it is
the judgment of God--_Amin!_ ... That they shall leave all they have behind them
--so also hath God willed, and I say it shall be. I swear it. And that they
leave behind them is for us who were appointed from the beginning of the world
to take it; that also God wills, and I say it shall be. I swear it. _Amin!_ ...
What if the way be perilous, as I grant it is? Is it not written: 'A soul cannot
die except by permission of God, according to a writing of God, definite as to
time'? And if a man die, is it not also written: 'Repute not those slain in
God's cause to be dead; nay, alive with God, they are provided for'? They are
people of the 'right hand,' of whom it is written: 'They shall be brought nigh
God in the gardens of delight, upon inwrought couches reclining face to face.
Youths ever young shall go unto them round about with goblets and ewers, and a
cup of flowing wine; and fruits of the sort which they shall choose, and the
flesh of birds of the kind which they shall desire, and damsels with eyes like
pearls laid up, we will give them as a reward for that which they have done.'
... But the appointed time is not yet for all of us--nay, it is for the fewest--
_Amin!_ ... And when the will of God is done, then for such as live, lo! over
the walls yonder are gold refined and coined, and gold in vessels, and damsels
on silken couches, their cheeks like roses of Damascus, their arms whiter and
cooler than lilies, and as pearls laid up are their eyes, and their bodies
sweeter than musk on the wings of the south wind in a grove of palms. With the
gold we can make gardens of delight; and the damsels set down in the gardens,
ours the fault if the promise be not made good as it was spoken by the
Prophet--'Paradise shall be brought near unto the pious, to a place not distant
from them, so they shall see it!' ... Being of those who shall 'receive their
books in the right hand,' more need not be said unto you. I only reserve for
myself the houses when you have despoiled them, and the churches. Make ready
yourself and your people, and tell them faithfully what I say, and swear to. I
will come to you with final orders. Arise!" [Footnote: For the quotations in
this speech, see _Selections from the Koran_, by EDWARD WILLIAM LANE.] From
sunrise to sunset of the twenty-seventh Mahommed was in the saddle going with
the retinue of a conqueror from chief to chief. From each he drew a detachment
to be held in reserve. One hundred thousand men were thus detached. "See to it,"
he said finally, "that you direct your main effort against the gate in front of
you.... Put the wild men in the advance. The dead will be useful in the
ditch.... Have the ladders at hand.... At the sound of my trumpets, charge....
Proclaim for me that he who is first upon the walls shall have choice of a
province. I will make him governor. God is God. I am his servant, ordering as he
has ordered." On the twenty-eighth, he sent all the dervishes in camp to preach
to the Moslems in arms; and of such effect were their promises of pillage and
Paradise that after the hour of the fifth prayer, the multitude, in all quite
two hundred and fifty thousand, abandoned themselves to transports of
fanaticism. Of their huts and booths they made heaps, and at night set fire to
them; and the tents of the Pachas and great officers being illuminated, and the
ships perfecting the blockade dressed in lights, the entrenchment from Blacherne
to the Seven Towers, and the sea thence to the Acropolis, were in a continued
brilliance reaching up to the sky. Even the campania was invaded by the
dazzlement of countless bonfires. And from the walls the besieged, if they
looked, beheld the antics of the hordes; if they listened, they heard the noise,
in the distance, a prolonged, inarticulate, irregular clamor of voices, near by,
a confusion of songs and cries. At times the bray of trumpets and the roll of
drums great and small shook the air, and smothered every rival sound. And where
the dervishes came, in their passage from group to group, the excitement arose
out of bounds, while their dancing lent diablerie to the scene. Assuredly there
was enough in what they beheld to sink the spirit of the besieged, even the
boldest of them. The cry _Allah-il-Allah_ shouted from the moat was trifling in
comparison with what they might have overheard around the bonfires. "Why do you
burn your huts?" asked a prudent officer of his men. "Because we will not need
them more. The city is for us to-morrow. The Padishah has promised and sworn."
"Did he swear it?" "Ay, by the bones of the Three in the Tomb of the Prophet."
At another fire, the following:

"Yes, I have chosen my palace already. It is on the hill over there in the
west." And again:

"Tell us, O son of Mousa, when we are in the town what will you look for?" "The
things I most want." "Well, what things?" "May the Jinn fill thy stomach with
green figs for such a question of my mother's son! What things? Two horses out
of the Emperor's stable. And thou--what wilt thou put thy hand to first?" "Oh, I
have not made up my mind! I am thinking of a load of gold for my camel--enough
to take my father and his three wives to Mecca, and buy water for them from the
Zem-zem. Praised be Allah!" "Bah! Gold will be cheap." "Yes, as bezants; but I
have heard of a bucket the unbelieving Greeks use at times for mixing wine and
bread in. It is when they eat the body of their God. They say the bucket is so
big it takes six fat priests to lift it." "It is too big. I'll gather the
bezants." "Well," said a third, with a loud Moslem oath, "keep to your gold,
whether in pots or coin. For me--for me"--

"Ha, ha!--he don't know." "Don't I? Thou grinning son of a Hindoo ape." "What is
it, then?" "The thing which is first in thy mind." "Name it." "A string of
women." "Old or young?" "An _hoo-rey-yeh_ is never old." "What judgment!"
sneered the other. "I will take some of the old ones as well." "What for?" "For
slaves to wait on the young. Was it not said by a wise man, 'Sweet water in the
jar is not more precious than peace in the family'?" Undoubtedly the evil genius
of Byzantium in this peril was the Prince of India. "My Lord," he had said,
cynically, "of a truth a man brave in the day can be turned into a quaking
coward at night; you have but to present him a danger substantial enough to
quicken his imagination. These Greeks have withstood you stoutly; try them now
with your power a vision of darkness." "How, Prince?" "In view and hearing from
the walls let the hordes kindle fires to-night. Multiply the fires, if need be,
and keep the thousands in motion about them, making a spectacle such as this
generation has not seen; then"--

The singular man stopped to laugh. Mahommed gazed at him in silent wonder.
"Then," he continued, "so will distorted fancy do its work, that by midnight the
city will be on its knees praying to the Mother of God, and every armed man on
the walls who has a wife or daughter will think he hears himself called to for
protection. Try it, my Lord, and thou mayst whack my flesh into ribbons if by
dawn the general fear have not left but a half task for thy sword." It was as
the Jew said. Attracted by the illumination in the sky, suggestive of something
vast and terrible going on outside the walls, and still full of faith in a
miraculous deliverance, thousands hastened to see the mercy. What an awakening
was in store for them! Enemies seemed to have arisen out of the earth--devils,
not men. The world to the horizon's rim appeared oppressed with them. Nor was it
possible to misapprehend the meaning of what they beheld. "To-morrow--to-morrow"
--they whispered to each other--"God keep us!" and pouring back into the
streets, they became each a preacher of despair. Yet--marvelous to say--the
monks sallied from their cells with words of cheer. "Have faith," they said.
"See, we are not afraid. The Blessed Mother has not deserted her children.
Believe in her. She is resolved to allow the _azymite_ Emperor to exhaust his
vanity that in the last hour he and his Latin myrmidons may not deny her the
merit of the salvation. Compose yourselves, and fear not. The angel will find
the poor man at the column of Constantine." The ordinary soul beset with fears,
and sinking into hopelessness, is always ready to accept a promise of rest. The
people listened to the priestly soothsayers. Nay, the too comforting assurance
made its way to the defenders at the gates, and hundreds of them deserted their
posts; leaving the enemy to creep in from the moat, and, with hooks on long
poles, actually pull down some of the new defences. It scarcely requires telling
how these complications added weight to the cares with which the Emperor was
already overladen. Through the afternoon he sat by the open window of a room
above the Cercoporta, or sunken gate under the southern face of his High
Residence, [Footnote: This room is still to be seen. The writer once visited it.
Arriving near, his Turkish _cavass_ requested him to wait a moment. The man then
advanced alone and cautiously, and knocked at the door. There was a conference,
and a little delay; after which the _cavass_ announced it was safe to go in. The
mystery was revealed upon entering. A half dozen steaming tubs were scattered
over the paved floor, and by each of them stood a scantily attired woman with a
dirty _yashmak_ covering her face. The chamber which should have been very
sacred if only because there the last of the Byzantine Emperors composedly
resigned himself to the inevitable, had become a filthy den devoted to one of
the most ignoble of uses. The shame is, of course, to the Greeks of
Constantinople.] watching the movements of the Turks. The subtle prophet which
sometimes mercifully goes before death had discharged its office with him. He
had dismissed his last hope. Beyond peradventure the hardest task to one
pondering his fate uprisen and standing before him with all its attending
circumstances, is to make peace with himself; which is simply viewing the
attractions of this life as birds of plumage in a golden cage, and deliberately
opening the door, and letting them loose, knowing they can never return. This
the purest and noblest of the imperial Greeks--the evil times in which his race
as a ruler was run prevent us from terming him the greatest--had done. He was in
armor, and his sword rested against the cheek of a window. His faithful
attendants came in occasionally, and spoke to him in low tones; but for the most
part he was alone. The view of the enemy was fair. He could see their
intrenchment, and the tents and ruder quarters behind it. He could see the
standards, many of them without meaning to him, the detachments on duty and
watchful, the horsemen coming and going, and now and then a column in movement.
He could hear the shouting, and he knew the meaning of it all--the final tempest
was gathering. About four o'clock in the afternoon, Phranza entered the room,
and going to his master's right hand, was in the act of prostrating himself.
"No, my Lord," said the Emperor, reaching out to stay him, and smiling
pleasantly, "let us have done with ceremony. Thou hast been true servant to me--
I testify it, God hearing--and now I promote thee. Be as my other self. Speak to
me standing. To-morrow is my end of days. In death no man is greater than
another. Tell me what thou bringest." On his knees, the Grand Chamberlain took
the steel-gloved hand nearest him, and carried it to his lips. "Your Majesty, no
servant had ever a more considerate and loving master." An oppressive silence
followed. They were both thinking the same thought, and it was too sad for
speech. "The duty Your Majesty charged me with this morning "--thus Phranza upon
recovery of his composure--"I attended to." "And you found it?" "Even as Your
Majesty had warning. The Hegumens of the Brotherhoods"--

"All of them, O Phranza?" "All of them, Your Majesty--assembled in a cloister of
the Pantocrator." "Gennadius again!" The Emperor's hands closed, and there was
an impatient twitching of his lips. "Though why should I be astonished? Hark, my
friend! I will tell thee what I have as yet spoken to no man else. Thou knowest
Kalil the Vizier has been these many years my tributary, and that he hath done
me many kindly acts, not always in his master's interest. The night of the day
our Christian ships beat the Turks the Grand Vizier sent me an account of a
stormy scene in Mahommed's tent, and advised me to beware of Gennadius. Ah, I
had fancied myself prepared to drink the cup Heaven hath in store for me, lees
and all, without a murmur, but men will be men until their second birth. It is
nature! ... Oh, my Phranza, what thinkest thou the false monk is carrying under
his hood?" "Some egg of treason, I doubt not." "Having driven His Serenity, the
pious and venerable Gregory, into exile, he aspires to succeed him." "The
hypocrite!--the impostor!--the perjured!--He, Patriarch!" cried Phranza, with
upraised eyes. "And from whose hands thinkest thou he dreams of deriving the
honor?" "Not Your Majesty's." The Emperor smiled faintly. "No--he regards
Mahommed the Sultan a better patron, if not a better Christian." "Forbid it
Heaven!" and Phranza crossed himself repeatedly. "Nay, good friend, hear his
scheme, then thou mayst call the forbidding powers with undeniable reason....He
undertook--so Kalil privily declared--if Mahommed would invest him with the
Patriarchate, to deliver Constantinople to him." "By what means? He has no gate
in keeping--he is not even a soldier." "My poor Phranza! Hast thou yet to learn
that perfidy is not a trait of any class? This gowned traitor hath a key to all
the gates. Hear him--I will ply the superstition of the Greeks, and draw them
from the walls with a prophecy." Phranza was able to cry out: "Oh! that so brave
a prince, so good a master should be at the mercy of--of such a"--

"With all thy learning, I see thou lackest a word. Let it pass, let it pass--I
understand thee....But what further hast thou from the meeting?" Phranza caught
the hand again, and laid his forehead upon it while he replied: "To-night the
Brotherhoods are to go out, and renew the story of the angel, and the man at the
foot of the column of Constantine." The calmness of the Emperor was wonderful.
He gazed at the Turks through the window, and, after reflection, said
tranquilly:

"I would have saved it--this old empire of our fathers; but my utmost now is to
die for it--ay, as if I were blind to its unworthiness. God's will be done, not
mine!" "Talk not of dying--O beloved Lord and master, talk not so! It is not too
late for composition. Give me your terms, and I will go with them to"--

"Nay, friend, I have done better--I have made peace with myself.... I shall be
no man's slave. There is nothing more for me--nothing except an honorable death.
How sweet a grace it is that we can put so much glory in dying! A day of Greek
regeneration may come--then there may be some to do me honor--some to find
worthy lessons in my life--perchance another Emperor of Byzantium to remember
how the last of the Palaeologae accepted the will of God revealed to him in
treachery and treason.... But there is one at the door knocking as he were in
haste. Let him enter." An officer of the guard was admitted. "Your Majesty," he
said, after salutation, "the Captain Justiniani, and the Genoese, his friends,
are preparing to abandon the gates." Constantine seized his sword, and arose.
"Tell me about it," he said, simply. "Justiniani has the new ditch at St. Romain
nearly completed, and wanting some cannon, he made request for them of the High
Admiral, who refused, saying, 'The foreign cowards must take care of
themselves.'" "Ride, sir, to the noble Captain, and tell him I am at thy heels."
"Is the Duke mad?" Constantine continued, the messenger having departed. "What
can he want? He is rich, and hath a family--boys verging on manhood, and of
excellent promise. Ah, my dear friend in need, what canst thou see of gain for
him from Mahommed?" "Life, your Majesty--life, and greater riches." "How? I did
not suppose thou thoughtest so ill of men." "Of some--of some--not all." Then
Phranza raised his head, and asked, bitterly: "If five galleys won the harbor,
every Moslem sail opposing, why could not twelve or more do better? Does not
Mahommed draw his supplies by sea?" The Emperor looked out of the window again,
but not at the Turks. "Lord Phranza," he said, presently, "thou mayst survive
to-morrow's calamity; if so, being as thou art skilful with the pen, write of me
in thy day of leisure two things; first, I dared not break with Duke Notaras
while Mahommed was striving for my gates--he could and would have seized my
throne--the Church, the Brotherhoods, and the people are with him--I am an
_azymite._ Say of me next that I have always held the decree of union proclaimed
by the Council of Florence binding upon Greek conscience, and had I lived, God
helping me roll back this flood of Islam, it should have been enforced....
Hither--look hither, Lord Phranza"--he pointed out of the window--"and thou wilt
see an argument of as many divisions as there are infidels beleaguering us why
the Church of Christ should have one head; and as to whether the head should be
Patriarch or Bishop, is it not enough that we are perishing for want of Western
swords?" --He would have fallen into silence again, but roused himself: "So much
for the place I would have in the world's memory.... But to the present affair.
Reparation is due Justiniani and his associates. Do thou prepare a repast in the
great dining hall. Our resources are so reduced I may not speak of it as a
banquet; but as thou lovest me do thy best with what we have. For my part, I
will ride and summon every noble Greek in arms for Church and State, and the
foreign captains. In such cheer, perhaps, we can heal the wounds inflicted by
Notaras. We can at least make ready to die with grace." He went out, and taking
horse, rode at speed to the Gate St. Romain, and succeeded in soothing the
offended Genoese. At ten o'clock the banquet was held. The chroniclers say of it
that there were speeches, embraces, and a fresh resolution to fight, and endure
the worst or conquer. And they chose a battle-cry--_Christ and Holy Church._ At
separating, the Emperor, with infinite tenderness, but never more knightly,
prayed forgiveness of any he might have wronged or affronted; and the guests
came one by one to bid him adieu, and he commended them to God, and the
gratitude of Christians in the ages to come, and his hands were drenched with
their tears. From the Very High Residence he visited the gates, and was
partially successful in arresting the desertions actually in progress. Finally,
all other duties done, his mind turning once more to God, he rode to Sancta
Sophia, heard mass, partook of the Communion, and received absolution according
to Latin rite; after which the morrow could hold no surprise for him. And he
found comfort repeating his own word: How sweet a grace it is that we can put so
much glory in dying. CHAPTER XI

COUNT CORTI IN DILEMMA

From the repast at Blacherne--festive it was in no sense--Count Corti escorted
the Emperor to the door of Sancta Sophia; whence, by permission, and taking with
him his nine Berbers, he rode slowly to the residence of the Princess Irene.
Slowly, we say, for nowhere in the pent area of Byzantium was there a soul more
oppressed. If he looked up, it was to fancy all the fortunate planets seated in
their Houses helping Mahommed's star to a fullest flood of splendor; if he
looked down, it was to see the wager--and his soul cried out, Lost! Lost! Though
one be rich, or great, or superior in his calling, wherein is the profit of it
if he have lost his love? Besides the anguish of a perception of his rival's
better fortune, the Count was bowed by the necessity of deciding certain
consequences unforeseen at the time the wager was made. The place of the
surrender of the Princess was fixed. Thinking forward now, he could anticipate
the scene in the great church--the pack of fugitives, their terror and despair,
the hordes raging amongst them. How was he single-handed to save her unharmed in
the scramble of the hour? Thoughts of her youth, beauty, and rank, theretofore
inspirations out of Heaven, set him to shivering with an ague more like fear
than any he had ever known. Nor was this all. The surrender was by the terms to
be to Mahommed himself. The Sultan was to demand her of him. He groaned aloud:
"Oh, dear God and Holy Mother, be merciful, and let me die!" For the first time
it was given him to see, not alone that he might lose the woman to his soul all
the sun is to the world, but her respect as well. By what management was he to
make the surrender without exposing the understanding between the conqueror and
himself? She would be present--she would see what took place--she would hear
what was said. And she would not be frightened. The image of the Madonna above
the altar in the nave would not be more calm. The vaguest suspicion of a
compact, and she the subject, would put her upon inquiry; then--"Oh, fool--idiot
--insensate as my sword-grip!" Thus, between groans, he scourged himself. It was
late, but her home was now a hospital filled with wounded men, and she its
sleepless angel. Old Lysander admitted him. "The Princess Irene is in the
chapel." Thus directed, the Count went thither well knowing the way. A soldier
just dead was the theme of a solemn recital by Sergius. The room was crowded
with women in the deepest excitement of fear. Corti understood the cause. Poor
creatures! They had need of religious comfort. A thousand ghosts in one view
could not have overcome them as did the approach of the morrow. At the right of
the altar, he discovered the Princess in the midst of her attendants, who kept
close to her, like young birds to the mother in alarm. She was quiet and self-
contained. Apparently she alone heard the words of the reader; and whereas the
Count came in a penitent--doubtful--in a maze--unknowing what to do or where to
turn, one glance at her face restored him. He resolved to tell her his history,
omitting only the character in which he entered her kinsman's service, and the
odious compact with Mahommed. Her consent to accompany him to Sancta Sophia must
be obtained; for that he was come. His presence in the chapel awakened a
suppressed excitement, and directly the Princess came to him. "What has
happened, Count Corti? Why are you here?" "To speak with you, O Princess Irene'

"Go with me, then." She conducted him into a passage, and closed the door behind
them. "The floor of my reception room is overlaid with the sick and suffering--
my whole house is given up to them. Speak here; and if the news be bad, dear
Count, it were mercy not to permit the unfortunates to hear you." She was not
thinking of herself. He took the hand extended to him, and kissed it--to him it
was the hand of more than the most beautiful woman in the world--it was the hand
of a saint in white transfigurement. "Thy imperial kinsman, O Princess, is at
the church partaking of the Holy Communion, and receiving absolution." "At this
hour? Why is he there, Count?" Corti told her of the repast at the palace, and
recounted the scene at parting. "It looks like despair. Can it be the Emperor is
making ready to die? Answer, and fear not for me. My life has been a long
preparation. He believes the defence is lost--the captains believe so--and
thou?" "O Princess, it is terrible saying, but I too expect the judgment of God
in the morning." The hall was so dimly lighted he could not see her face; but
the nerve of sympathy is fine--he felt she trembled. Only a moment--scarcely
longer than taking a breath--then she answered:

"Judgment is for us all. It will find me here." She moved as if to return to the
chapel; but he stepped before her, and drawing out a chair standing by the door,
said, firmly, yet tenderly:

"You are weary. The labor of helping the unfortunate these many days--the
watching and anxiety--have been trying upon you. Sit, I pray, and hear me." She
yielded with a sigh. "The judgment which would find you here, O Princes, would
not be death, but something more terrible, so terrible words burn in thinking of
it. I have sworn to defend you: and the oath, and the will to keep it, give me
the right to determine where and how the defence shall be made. If there are
advantages, I want them, for your sweet sake." He stopped to master his feeling.
"You have never stood on the deck of a ship in wreck, and seen the sea rush in
to overwhelm it," he went on presently: "I have; and I declare to you, O beloved
lady, nothing can be so like to-morrow when the hordes break into the city, as
that triumph of waters; and as on the deck there was no place of safety for the
perishing crew, neither will there be place of safety for man, woman, or child
in Byzantium then--least of all for the kinswoman of the Emperor--for her--
permit me to say it--whose loveliness and virtue are themes for story-tellers
throughout the East. As a prize--whether for ransom or dishonor--richer than the
churches and the palaces, and their belongings, be they jewels or gold, or
anointed crown, or bone of Saint, or splinter of the True Cross, or shred from
the shirt of Christ--to him who loves her, a prize of such excellence that
glory, even the glory Mahommed is now dreaming of when he shall have wrenched
the keys of the gates from their rightful owner dead in the bloody breach, would
pale if set beside it for comparison, and sink out of sight--think you she will
not be hunted? Or that the painted Mother above the altar, though it spoke
through a miraculous halo, could save her when found? No, no, Princess, not
here, not here!... You know I love you; in an unreasoning moment I dared tell
you so; and you may think me passion-blind, and that I hung the vow to defend
you upon my soul's neck, thinking it light as this favor you were pleased to
give me; that love being a braggart, therefore I am a braggart. Let me set
myself right in your opinion--your good opinion, O Princess, for it is to me a
world of such fair shining I dream of it as of a garden in Paradise.... If you
do not know how hardly I have striven in this war, send, I pray, and ask any of
the captains, or the most Christian sovereign I have just left making his peace
with God. Some of them called me mad, but I pardoned them--they did not know the
meaning of my battle-cry--'For Christ and Irene'--that I was venturing life less
for Constantinople, less for religion--I almost said, less for Christ--than for
you, who are all things in one to me, the fairest on earth, the best in
Heaven.... At last, at last I am driven to admit we may fail--that to-morrow,
whether I am here or there, at your side or under the trampling, you may be a
prisoner at mercy." At these words, of infinite anguish in utterance, the
Princess shuddered, and looked up in silent appeal. "Attend me now. You have
courage above the courage of women; therefore I may speak with plainness....
What will become of you--I give the conclusion of many wrangles with myself--
what will become of you depends upon the hands which happen to be laid on you
first. O Princess, are you giving me heed? Do you comprehend me?" "The words
concern me more than life, Count." "I may go on then.... I have hope of saving
your life and honor. You have but to do what I advise. If you cannot trust me,
further speech were idleness, and I might as well take leave of you. Death in
many forms will be abroad to-morrow--nothing so easily found." "Count Corti,"
she returned, "if I hesitate pledging myself, it is not because of distrust. I
will hear you." "It is well said, dear lady." He stopped--a pleasant warmth was
in his heart--a perception, like dim light, began breaking through the
obscurities in his mind. To this moment, in fact, he had trouble gaining his own
consent to the proposal on his tongue; it seemed so like treachery to the noble
woman--so like a cunning inveiglement to deliver her to Mahommed under the hated
compact. Now suddenly the proposal assumed another appearance--it was the best
course--the best had there been no wager, no compact, no obligation but knightly
duty to her. As he proceeded, this conviction grew clearer, bringing him ease of
conscience and the subtle influence of a master arguing right. He told her his
history then, holding nothing back but the two points mentioned. Twice only she
interrupted him. "Your mother, Count Corti--poor lady--how she has suffered! But
what happiness there is in store for her!" And again: "How wonderful the escape
from the falsehoods of the Prophet! There is no love like Christ's love unless--
unless it be a mother's." At the conclusion, her chin rested in the soft palm of
her hand, and the hand, unjewelled, was white as marble just carven, and, like
the arm, a wonder of grace. Of what was she thinking?--Of him? Had he at last
made an impression upon her? What trifles serve the hope of lovers! At length
she asked:

"Then, O Count, thou wert his playmate in childhood?" A bitter pang struck him--
that pensiveness was for Mahommed--yet he answered: "I was nearest him until he
took up his father's sword." "Is he the monster they call him?" "To his enemies,
yes--and to all in the road to his desires, yes--but to his friends there was
never such a friend." "Has he heart to"--

The omission, rather than the question, hurt him--still he returned:

"Yes, once he really loves." Then she appeared to awake. "To the narrative now--
Forgive my wandering." The opportunity to return was a relief to him, and he
hastened to improve it. "I thank you for grace, O Princess, and am reminded of
the pressure of time. I must to the gate again with the Emperor.... This is my
proposal. Instead of biding here to be taken by some rapacious hordesman, go
with me to Sancta Sophia, and when the Sultan comes thither--as he certainly
will--deliver yourself to him. If, before his arrival, the plunderers force the
doors of the holy house, I will stand with you, not, Princess, as Count Corti
the Italian, but Mirza the Emir and Janissary, appointed by the Sultan to guard
you. My Berbers will help the assumption." He had spoken clearly, yet she
hesitated. "Ah," he said, "you doubt Mahommed. He will be upon honor. The glory-
winners, Princess, are those always most in awe of the judgment of the world."
Yet she sat silent. "Or is it I who am in your doubt?" "No, Count. But my
household--my attendants--the poor creatures are trembling now--some of them, I
was about saying, are of the noblest families in Byzantium, daughters of
senators and lords of the court. I cannot desert them--no, Count Corti, not to
save myself. The baseness would be on my soul forever. They must share my
fortune, or I their fate." Still she was thinking of others! More as a
worshipper than lover, the Count replied: "I will include them in my attempt to
save you. Surely Heaven will help me, for your sake, O Princess." "And I can
plead for them with him. Count Corti, I will go with you." The animation with
which she spoke faded in an instant. "But thou--O my friend, if thou shouldst
fall?" "Nay, let us be confident. If Heaven does not intend your escape, it
would be merciful, O beloved lady, did it place me where no report of your
mischance and sorrows can reach me. Looking at the darkest side, should I not
come for you, go nevertheless to the Church. Doubt not hearing of the entry of
the Turks. Seek Mahommed, if possible, and demand his protection. Tell him, I,
Mirza the Emir, counselled you. On the other side, be ready to accompany me.
Make preparation to-night--have a chair at hand, and your household assembled--
for when I come, time will be scant.... And now, God be with you! I will not say
be brave--be trustful." She extended her hand, and he knelt, and kissed it. "I
will pray for you, Count Corti." "Heaven will hear you." He went out, and
rejoining the Emperor, rode with him from the Church to Blacherne. CHAPTER XII

THE ASSAULT

The bonfires of the hordes were extinguished about the time the Christian
company said their farewells after the last supper in the Very High Residence,
and the hordes themselves appeared to be at rest, leaving Night to reset her
stars serenely bright over the city, the sea, and the campania. To the
everlasting honor of that company, be it now said, they could under cover of the
darkness have betaken themselves to the ships and escaped; yet they went to
their several posts. Having laid their heads upon the breast of the fated
Emperor, and pledged him their lives, there is no account of one in craven
refuge at the break of day. The Emperor's devotion seems to have been a
communicable flame. This is the more remarkable when it is remembered that in
the beginning the walls were relied upon to offset the superiority of the enemy
in numbers, while now each knight and man-at-arms knew the vanity of that
reliance--knew himself, in other words, one of scant five thousand men--to such
diminished roll had the besieged been reduced by wounds, death and desertion--
who were to muster on the ruins of the outer wall, or in the breaches of the
inner, and strive against two hundred and fifty thousand goaded by influences
justly considered the most powerful over ferocious natures--religious fanaticism
and the assurance of booty without limit. The silence into which the Turkish
host was sunk did not continue a great while. The Greeks on the landward walls
became aware of a general murmur, followed shortly by a rumble at times vibrant
--so the earth complains of the beating it receives from vast bodies of men and
animals in hurried passage. "The enemy is forming," said John Grant to his
associate Carystos, the archer. Minotle, the Venetian bayle, listening from the
shattered gate of Adrianople, gave order: "Arouse the men. The Turks are
coming." Justiniani, putting the finishing touches upon his masked repairs
behind what had been the alley or passage between the towers Bagdad and St.
Romain, was called to by his lookout: "Come up, Captain--the infidels are
stirring--they seem disposed to attack." "No," the Captain returned, after a
brief observation, "they will not attack to-night--they are getting ready." None
the less, without relieving his working parties, he placed his command in
station. At Selimbria and the Golden Gate the Christians stood to arms. So also
between the gates. Then a deep hush descended upon the mighty works--mighty
despite the slugging they had endured--and the silence was loaded with anxiety.
For such of my readers as have held a night-watch expectant of battle at
disadvantage in the morning it will be easy putting themselves in the place of
these warders at bay; they can think their thoughts, and hear the heavy beating
of their hearts; they will remember how long the hours were, and how the
monotony of the waiting gnawed at their spirits until they prayed for action,
action. On the other hand, those without the experience will wonder how men can
bear up bravely in such conditions--and that is a wonder. In furtherance of his
plan, Mahommed drew in his irregulars, and massed them in the space between the
intrenchment and the ditch; and by bringing his machines and small guns nearer
the walls, he menaced the whole front of defence with a line amply provided with
scaling ladders and mantelets. Behind the line he stationed bodies of horsemen
to arrest fugitives, and turn them back to the fight. His reserves occupied the
intrenchments. The Janissaries were retained at his quarters opposite St.
Romain. The hordes were clever enough to see what the arrangement portended for
them, and they at first complained. "What, grumble, do they?" Mahommed answered.
"Ride, and tell them I say the first choice in the capture belongs to the first
over the walls. Theirs the fault if the city be not an empty nest to all who
come after them." The earth in its forward movement overtook the moon just
before daybreak; then in the deep hush of expectancy and readiness, the light
being sufficient to reveal to the besieged the assault couchant below them, a
long-blown flourish was sounded by the Turkish heralds from the embrasure of the
great gun. Other trumpeters took up the signal, and in a space incredibly short
it was repeated everywhere along the line of attack. A thunder of drums broke in
upon the music. Up rose the hordes, the archers and slingers, and the ladder
bearers, and forward, like a bristling wave, they rushed, shouting every man as
he pleased. In the same instant the machines and light guns were set in
operation. Never had the old walls been assailed by such a tempest of bolts,
arrows, stones and bullets--never had their echoes been awakened by an equal
explosion of human voices, instruments of martial music, and cannon. The warders
were not surprised by the assault so much as by its din and fury; and when
directly the missiles struck them, thickening into an uninterrupted pouring
rain, they cowered behind the merlons, and such other shelters as they could
find. This did not last long--it was like the shiver and gasp of one plunged
suddenly into icy water. The fugitives were rallied, and brought back to their
weapons, and to replying in kind; and having no longer to shoot with care, the
rabble fusing into a compact target, especially on the outer edge of the ditch,
not a shaft, or bolt, or stone, or ball from culverin went amiss. Afterwhile,
their blood warming with the work, and the dawn breaking, they could see their
advantage of position, and the awful havoc they were playing; then they too knew
the delight in killing which more than anything else proves man the most
ferocious of brutes. The movement of the hordes was not a dash wholly without
system--such an inference would be a great mistake. There was no pretence of
alignment or order--there never is in such attacks--forlorn hopes, receiving the
signal, rush on, each individual to his own endeavor; here, nevertheless, the
Pachas and Beys directed the assault, permitting no blind waste of effort. They
hurled their mobs at none but the weak places--here a breach, there a dismantled
gate. Thousands were pushed headlong into the moat. The ladders then passed down
to such of them as had footing were heavy, but they were caught willingly; if
too short, were spliced; once planted so as to bring the coping of the wall in
reach, they swarmed with eager adventurers, who, holding their shields and pikes
overhead, climbed as best they could. Those below cheered their comrades above,
and even pushed them up. "The spoils--think of the spoils--the gold, the
women!... _Allah-il-Allah!_... Up, up--it is the way to Paradise!" Darts and
javelins literally cast the climbers in a thickened shade. Sometimes a ponderous
stone plunging down cleaned a ladder from top to bottom; sometimes, waiting
until the rounds were filled, the besieged applied levers, and swung a score and
more off helpless and shrieking. No matter--_Allah-il-Allah!_ The living were
swift to restore and attempt the fatal ascents. Every one dead and every one
wounded became a serviceable clod; rapidly as the dump and cumber of humanity
filled the moat the ladders extended their upward reach; while drum-beat,
battle-cry, trumpet's blare, and the roar of cannon answering cannon blent into
one steady all-smothering sound. In the stretches of space between gates, where
the walls and towers were intact, the strife of the archers and slingers was to
keep the Greeks occupied, lest they should reenforce the defenders hard pressed
elsewhere. During the night the blockading vessels had been warped close into
the shore, and, the wall of the seafront being lower than those on the land
side, the crews, by means of platforms erected on the decks, engaged the
besieged from a better level. There also, though attempts at escalade were
frequent, the object was chiefly to hold the garrison in place. In the harbor,
particularly at the Wood Gate, already mentioned as battered out of semblance to
itself by the large gun on the floating battery, the Turks exerted themselves to
effect a landing; but the Christian fleet interposed, and there was a naval
battle of varying fortune. So, speaking generally, the city was wrapped in
assault; and when the sun at last rode up into the clear sky above the Asiatic
heights, streets, houses, palaces, churches--the hills, in fact, from the sea to
the Tower of Isaac--were shrouded in ominous vapor, through which such of the
people as dared go abroad flitted pale and trembling; or if they spoke to each
other, it was to ask in husky voices, What have you from the gates? Passing now
to the leading actors in this terrible tragedy. Mahommed retired to his couch
early the night previous. He knew his orders were in course of execution by
chiefs who, on their part, knew the consequences of failure. The example made of
the Admiral in command of the fleet the day the five relieving Christian galleys
won the port was fresh in memory. [Footnote: He was stretched on the ground and
whipped like a common malefactor.] "To-morrow, to-morrow," he kept repeating,
while his pages took off his armor, and laid the pieces aside. "To-morrow, to-
morrow," lingered in his thoughts, when, his limbs stretched out comfortably on
the broad bronze cot which served him for couch, sleep crept in as to a tired
child, and laid its finger of forgetfulness upon his eyelids. The repetition was
as when we run through the verse of a cheerful song, thinking it out silently,
and then recite the chorus aloud. Once he awoke, and, sitting up, listened. The
mighty host which had its life by his permission was quiet--even the horses in
their apartment seemed mindful that the hour was sacred to their master. Falling
to sleep again, he muttered: "To-morrow, to-morrow--Irene and glory. I have the
promise of the stars." To Mahommed the morrow was obviously but a holiday which
was bringing him the kingly part in a joyous game--a holiday too slow in coming.
About the third hour after midnight he was again awakened. A man stood by his
cot imperfectly shading the light of a lamp with his hand. "Prince of India!"
exclaimed Mahommed, rising to a sitting posture. "It is I, my Lord." "What time
is it?" The Prince gave him the hour. "Is it so near the break of day?" Mahommed
yawned. "Tell me"--he fixed his eyes darkly on the visitor--"tell me first why
thou art here?" "I will, my Lord, and truly. I wished to see if you could sleep.
A common soul could not. It is well the world has no premonitory sense." "Why
so?" "My Lord has all the qualities of a conqueror." Mahommed was pleased. "Yes,
I will make a great day of to-morrow. But, Prince of India, what shadows are
disturbing thee? Why art thou not asleep?" "I too have a part in the day, my
Lord." "What part?" "I will fight, and"--

Mahommed interrupted him with a laugh. "Thou!" and he looked the stooped figure
over from head to foot. "My Lord has two hands--I have four--I will show them."
Returning to his apartment, the Prince reappeared with Nilo. "Behold, my Lord!"
The black was in the martial attire of a king of Kash-Cush--feathered coronet,
robe of blue and red hanging from shoulder to heel, body under the robe naked to
the waist, assegai in the oft-wrapped white sash, skirt to the knees glittering
with crescents and buttons of silver, sandals beaded with pearls. On his left
arm depended a shield rimmed and embossed with brass; in his right hand he bore
a club knotted, and of weight to fell a bull at a blow. Without the slightest
abashment, but rather as a superior, the King looked down at the young Sultan.
"I see--I understand--I welcome the four hands of the Prince of India," Mahommed
said, vivaciously; then, giving a few moments of admiration to the negro, he
turned, and asked:

"Prince, I have a motive for to-morrow--nay, by the cool waters of Paradise, I
have many motives. Tell me thine. In thy speech and action I have observed a
hate for these Greeks deep as the Shintan's for God. Why? What have they done to
thee?" "They are Christians," the Jew returned, sullenly. "That is good, Prince,
very good--even the Prophet judged it a justification for cleaning the earth of
the detestable sect--yet it is not enough. I am not old as thou"--Mahommed lost
the curious gleam which shone in the visitor's eyes--"I am not old as thou art;
still I know hate like thine must be from a private grievance." "My Lord is
right. To-morrow I will leave the herd to the herd. In the currents of the fight
I will hunt but one enemy--Constantine. Judge thou my cause." Then he told of
Lael--of his love for her--of her abduction by Demedes--his supplication for the
Emperor's assistance--the refusal. "She was the child of my soul," he continued,
passionately. "My interest in life was going out; she reinspired it. She was the
promise of a future for me, as the morning star is of a gladsome day. I dreamed
dreams of her, and upon her love builded hopes, like shining castles on high
hills. Yet it was not enough that the Greek refused me his power to discover and
restore her. She is now in restraint, and set apart to become the wife of a
Christian--a Christian priest--may the fiends juggle for his ghost!--To-morrow I
will punish the tyrant--I will give him a dog's death, and then seek her. Oh! I
will find her--I will find her--and by the light there is in love, I will show
him what all of hell there can be in one man's hate!" For once the cunning of
the Prince overreached itself. In the rush of passion he forgot the exquisite
sensory gifts of the potentate with whom he was dealing; and Mahommed, observant
even while shrinking from the malignant fire in the large eyes, discerned
incoherencies in the tale, and that it was but half told; and while he was
resolving to push his Messenger of the Stars to a full confession, a distant
rumble invaded the tent, accompanied by a trample of feet outside. "It is here,
Prince of India--the day of Destiny. Let us get ready, thou for thy revenge, I
for glory and"--Irene was on his tongue, but he suppressed the name. "Call my
chamberlain and equerry.... On the table there thou mayst see my arms--a mace my
ancestor Ilderim [Footnote: Bajazet.] bore at Nicopolis, and thy sword of
Solomon.... God is great, and the Jinn and the Stars on my side, what have we to
fear?" Within half an hour he rode out of the tent. "Blows the wind to the city
or from it?" he asked his chief Aga of Janissaries. "Toward the city, my Lord."
"Exalted be the name of the Prophet! Set the Flower of the Faithful in order--a
column of front wide as the breach in the gate--and bring the heralds. I shall
be by the great gun." Pushing his horse on the parapet, he beheld the space
before him, down quite to the moat--every trace of the cemetery had disappeared
--dark with hordes assembled and awaiting the signal. Satisfied, happy, he
looked then toward the east. None better than he knew the stars appointed to go
before the sun--their names were familiar to him--now they were his friends. At
last a violet corona infinitely soft glimmered along the hill tops beyond
Scutari. "Stand out now," he cried to the five in their tabards of gold--"stand
out now, and as ye hope couches in Paradise, blow--blow the stones out of their
beds yonder--God was never so great!" Then ensued the general advance which has
been described, except that here, in front of St. Romain, there was no covering
the assailants with slingers and archers. The fill in the ditch was nearly level
with the outer bank, from which it may be described as an ascending causeway.
This advantage encouraged the idea of pouring the hordesmen _en masse_ over the
hill composed of the ruins of what had been the towers of the gate. There was an
impulsive dash under incitement of a mighty drumming and trumpeting--a race,
every man of the thousands engaged in it making for the causeway--a jam--a mob
paralyzed by its numbers. They trampled on each other--they fought, and in the
rebound were pitched in heaps down the perpendicular revetment on the right and
left of the fill. Of those thus unfortunate the most remained where they fell,
alive, perhaps, but none the less an increasing dump of pikes, shields, and
crushed bodies; and in the roar above them, cries for help, groans, and prayers
were alike unheard and unnoticed. All this Justiniani had foreseen. Behind loose
stones on top of the hill, he had collected culverins, making, in modern phrase,
a masked battery, and trained the pieces to sweep the causeway; with them, as a
support, he mixed archers and pikemen. On either flank, moreover, he stationed
companies similarly armed, extending them to the unbroken wall, so there was not
a space in the breach undefended. The Captain, on watch and expectant, heard the
signal. "To the Emperor at Blacherne," he bade; "and say the storm is about to
break. Make haste." Then to his men: "Light the matches, and be ready to throw
the stones down." The hordesmen reached the edge of the ditch; that moment the
guns were unmasked, and the Genoese leader shouted:

"Fire, my men!--_Christ and Holy Church!_"

Then from the Christian works it was bullet, bolt, stone, and shaft, making
light of flimsy shield and surcoat of hide; still the hordesmen pushed on, a
river breasting an obstruction. Now they were on the causeway. Useless facing
about--behind them an advancing wall--on both sides the ditch. Useless lying
down--that was to be smothered in bloody mire. Forward, forward, or die. What
though the causeway was packed with dead and wounded?--though there was no
foothold not slippery?--though the smell of hot blood filled every nostril?--
though hands thrice strengthened by despair grappled the feet making stepping
blocks of face and breast? The living pressed on leaping, stumbling, staggering;
their howl, "Gold--spoils--women--slaves," answered from the smoking hill,
"_Christ and Holy Church._"

And now, the causeway crossed, the leading assailants gain the foot of the rough
ascent. No time to catch breath--none to look for advantage--none to profit by a
glance at the preparation to receive them--up they must go, and up they went.
Arrows and javelins pierce them; stones crush them; the culverins spout fire in
their faces, and, lifting them off their uncertain footing, hurl them bodily
back upon the heads and shields of their comrades. Along the brow of the rocky
hill a mound of bodies arises wondrous quick, an obstacle to the warders of the
pass who would shoot, and to the hordesmen a barrier. Slowly the corona on the
Scutarian hills deepened into dawn. The Emperor joined Justiniani. Count Corti
came with him. There was an affectionate greeting. "Your Majesty, the day is
scarcely full born, yet see how Islam is rueing it." Constantine, following
Justiniani's pointing, peered once through the smoke; then the necessity of the
moment caught him, and, taking post between guns, he plied his long lance upon
the wretches climbing the rising mound, some without shields, some weaponless,
most of them incapable of combat. With the brightening of day the mound grew in
height and width, until at length the Christians sallied out upon it to meet the
enemy still pouring on. An hour thus. Suddenly, seized with a comprehension of
the futility of their effort, the hordesmen turned, and rushed from the hill and
the causeway. The Christians suffered but few casualties; yet they would have
gladly rested. Then, from the wall above the breach, whence he had used his bow,
Count Corti descended hastily. "Your Majesty," he said, his countenance kindled
with enthusiasm, "the Janissaries are making ready." Justiniani was prompt.
"Come!" he shouted. "Come every one! We must have clear range for the guns. Down
with these dead! Down with the living. No time for pity!" Setting the example,
presently the defenders were tossing the bodies of their enemies down the face
of the hill. On his horse, by the great gun, Mahommed had observed the assault,
listening while the night yet lingered. Occasionally a courier rode to him with
news from this Pacha or that one. He heard without excitement, and returned
invariably the same reply:

"Tell him to pour the hordes in." At last an officer came at speed. "Oh, my
Lord, I salute you. The city is won." It was clear day then, yet a light not of
the morning sparkled in Mahommed's eyes. Stooping in his saddle, he asked: "What
sayest thou? Tell me of it, but beware--if thou speakest falsely, neither God
nor Prophet shall save thee from impalement to the roots of thy tongue." "As I
have to tell my Lord what I saw with my own eyes, I am not afraid.... My Lord
knows that where the palace of Blacherne begins on the south there is an angle
in the wall. There, while our people were feigning an assault to amuse the
Greeks, they came upon a sunken gate"--

"The Cercoporta--I have heard of it." "My Lord has the name. Trying it, they
found it unfastened and unguarded, and, pushing through a darkened passage,
discovered they were in the Palace. Mounting to the upper floor, they attacked
the unbelievers. The fighting goes on. From room to room the Christians resist.
They are now cut off, and in a little time the quarter will be in our
possession." Mahommed spoke to Kalil: "Take this man, and keep him safely. If he
has spoken truly, great shall be his reward; if falsely, better he were not his
mother's son." Then to one of his household: "Come hither.... Go to the sunken
gate Cercoporta, pass in, and find the chief now fighting in the palace of
Blacherne. Tell him I, Mahommed, require that he leave the Palace to such as may
follow him, and march and attack the defenders of this gate, St. Romain, in the
rear. He shall not stop to plunder. I give him one hour in which to do my
bidding. Ride thou now as if a falcon led thee. For Allah and life!" Next he
called his Aga of Janissaries. "Have the hordes before this gate retired. They
have served their turn; they have made the ditch passable, and the _Gabours_ are
faint with killing them. Observe, and when the road is cleared let go with the
Flower of the Faithful. A province to the first through; and this the battle-
cry: _Allah-il-Allah!_ They will fight under my eye. Minutes are worth kingdoms.
Go thou, and let go." Always in reserve, always the last resort in doubtful
battle, always the arm with which the Sultans struck the finishing blow, the
Janissaries thus summoned to take up the assault were in discipline, spirit, and
splendor of appearance the _elite_ corps of the martial world. Riding to the
front, the Aga halted to communicate Mahommed's orders. Down the columns the
speech was passed. The Flower of the Faithful were in three divisions
dismounted. Throwing off their clumsy gowns, they stood forth in glittering
mail, and shaking their brassy shields in air, shouted the old salute: "_Live
the Padishah! Live the Padishah!_"

The road to the gate was cleared; then the Aga galloped back, and when abreast
of the yellow flag of the first division, he cried: "_Allah-il-Allah!_ Forward!"
And drum and trumpet breaking forth, a division moved down in column of fifties.
Slowly at first, but solidly, and with a vast stateliness it moved. So at
Pharsalia marched the legion Caesar loved--so in decision of heady fights strode
the Old Guard of the world's last Conqueror. Approaching the ditch, the fresh
assailants set up the appointed battle-cry, and quickening the step to double
time rushed over the terrible causeway. Mahommed then descended to the ditch,
and remained there mounted, the sword of Solomon in his hand, the mace of
Ilderim at his saddle bow; and though hearing him was impossible, the Faithful
took fire from his fire--enough that they were under his eye. The feat attempted
by the hordes was then repeated, except now there was order in disorder. The
machine, though shaken and disarranged, kept working on, working up. Somehow its
weight endured. Slowly, with all its drench and cumber, the hill was surmounted.
Again a mound arose in front of the battery--again the sally, and the deadly ply
of pikes from the top of the mound. The Emperor's lance splintered; he fought
with a pole-axe; still even he became sensible of a whelming pressure. In the
gorge, the smoke, loaded with lime-dust, dragged rather than lifted; no man saw
down it to the causeway; yet the ascending din and clamor, possessed of the
smiting power of a gust of wind, told of an endless array coming. There was not
time to take account of time; but at last a Turkish shield appeared over the
ghastly rampart, glimmering as the moon glimmers through thick vapor. Thrusts in
scores were made at it, yet it arose; then a Janissary sprang up on the heap,
singing like a muezzin, and shearing off the heads of pikes as reapers shear
green rye. He was a giant in stature and strength. Both Genoese and Greeks were
disposed to give him way. The Emperor rallied them. Still the Turk held his
footing, and other Turks were climbing to his support. Now it looked as if the
crisis were come, now as if the breach were lost. In the last second a cry _For
Christ and Irene_ rang through the melee, and Count Corti, leaping from a gun,
confronted the Turk. "Ho, Son of Ouloubad! Hassan, Hassan!" [Footnote: One of
the Janissaries, Hassan d'Ouloubad, of gigantic stature and prodigious strength,
mounted to the assault under cover of his shield, his cimeter in the right hand.
He reached the rampart with thirty of his companions. Nineteen of them were cast
down, and Hassan himself fell struck by a stone.--VON HAMMER.] he shouted, in
the familiar tongue. "Who calls me?" the giant asked, lowering his shield, and
gazing about in surprise. "I call you--I, Mirza the Emir. Thy time has come.
_Christ and Irene. Now!_"

With the word the Count struck the Janissary fairly on the flat cap with his
axe, bringing him to his knees. Almost simultaneously a heavy stone descended
upon the dazed man from a higher part of the wall, and he rolled backward down
the steep. Constantine and Justiniani, with others, joined the Count, but too
late. Of the fifty comrades composing Hassan's file, thirty mounted the rampart.
Eighteen of them were slain in the bout. Corti raged like a lion; but up rushed
the survivors of the next file--and the next--and the vantage-point was lost.
The Genoese, seeing it, said:

"Your Majesty, let us retire." "Is it time?" "We must get a ditch between us and
this new horde, or we are all dead men." Then the Emperor shouted: "Back, every
one! For love of Christ and Holy Church, back to the galley!" The guns,
machines, store of missiles, and space occupied by the battery were at once
abandoned. Constantine and Corti went last, facing the foe, who warily paused to
see what they had next to encounter. The secondary defence to which the Greeks
resorted consisted of the hulk brought up, as we have seen, by Count Corti,
planted on its keel squarely in rear of the breach, and filled with stones. From
the hulk, on right and left, wings of uncemented masonry extended to the main
wall in form thus:

[Illustration]

A ditch fronted the line fifteen feet in width and twelve in depth, provided
with movable planks for hasty passage. Culverins were on the hulk, with
ammunition in store. Greatly to the relief of the jaded Christians, who, it is
easy believing, stood not on the order of going, they beheld the reserves, under
Demetrius Palaeologus and Nicholas Giudalli, in readiness behind the refuge. The
Emperor, on the deck, raised the visor of his helmet, and looked up at an
Imperial flag drooping in the stagnant air from a stump of the mast. Whatever
his thought or feeling, no one could discern on his countenance an unbecoming
expression. The fact, of which he must have been aware, that this stand taken
ended his empire forever, had not shaken his resolution or confidence. To
Demetrius Palaeologus, who had lent a hand helping him up the galley's side, he
said: "Thank you, kinsman. God may still be trusted. Open fire." The
Janissaries, astonished at the new and strange defence, would have retreated,
but could not; the files ascending behind drove them forward. At the edge of the
ditch the foremost of them made a despairing effort to resist the pressure
rushing them to their fate--down they went in mass, in their last service no
better than the hordesmen--clods they became--clods in bright harness instead of
bull-hide and shaggy astrakhan. From the wings, bolts and stones; from the
height of the wall, bolts and stones; from the hulk, grapeshot; and the rattle
upon the shields of the Faithful was as the passing of empty chariots over a
Pompeiian street. Imprecations, prayers, yells, groans, shrieks, had lodgement
only in the ear of the Most Merciful. The open maw of a ravenous monster
swallowing the column fast as Mahommed down by the great moat drove it on--such
was the new ditch. Yet another, the final horror. When the ditch was partially
filled, the Christians brought jugs of the inflammable liquid contributed to the
defence by John Grant; and cast them down on the writhing heap. Straightway the
trench became a pocket of flame, or rather an oven from which the smell of
roasting human flesh issued along with a choking cloud! The besieged were
exultant, as they well might be--they were more than holding the redoubtable
Flower of the Faithful at bay--there was even a merry tone in their battle-cry.
About that time a man dismounted from a foaming horse, climbed the rough steps
to the deck of the galley, and delivered a message to the Emperor. "Your
Majesty. John Grant, Minotle the bayle, Carystos, Langasco, and Jerome the
Italian are slain. Blacherne is in possession of the Turks, and they are
marching this way. The hordes are in the streets. I saw them, and heard the
bursting of doors, and the screams of women." Constantine crossed himself three
times, and bowed his head. Justiniani turned the color of ashes, and exclaimed:

"We are undone--undone! All is lost!" And that his voice was hoarse did not
prevent the words being overheard. The fire slackened--ceased. Men fighting
jubilantly dropped their arms, and took up the cry--"All is lost! The hordes are
in, the hordes are in!" Doubtless Count Corti's thought sped to the fair woman
waiting for him in the chapel, yet he kept clear head. "Your Majesty," he said,
"my Berbers are without. I will take them, and hold the Turks in check while you
draw assistance from the walls. Or"--he hesitated, "or I will defend your person
to the ships. It is not too late." Indeed, there was ample time for the
Emperor's escape. The Berbers were keeping his horse with Corti's. He had but to
mount, and ride away. No doubt he was tempted. There is always some sweetness in
life, especially to the blameless. He raised his head, and said to Justiniani:

"Captain, my guard will remain here. To keep the galley they have only to keep
the fire alive in the ditch. You and I will go out to meet the enemy." ... Then
he addressed himself to Corti: "To horse, Count, and bring Theophilus
Palaeologus. He is on the wall between this gate and the gate Selimbria.... Ho,
Christian gentlemen," he continued, to the soldiers closing around him, "all is
not lost. The Bochiardi at the Adrianople gate have not been heard from. To fly
from an unseen foe were shameful, We are still hundreds strong. Let us descend,
and form. God cannot"--

That instant Justiniani uttered a loud cry, and dropped the axe he was holding.
An arrow had pierced the scales of his gauntlet, and disabled his hand. The
pain, doubtless, was great, and he started hastily as if to descend from the
deck. Constantine called out:

"Captain, Captain!" "Give me leave, Your Majesty, to go and have this wound
dressed." "Where, Captain?" "To my ship." The Emperor threw his visor up--his
face was flushed--in his soul indignation contended with astonishment. "No,
Captain, the wound cannot be serious; and besides, how canst thou get to thy
ships?" Justiniani looked over the bulwark of the vessel. The alley from the
gate ran on between houses abutting the towers. A ball from one of Mahommed's
largest guns had passed through the right-hand building, leaving a ragged
fissure. Thither the Captain now pointed. "God opened that breach to let the
Turks in. I will go out by it." He stayed no longer, but went down the steps,
and in haste little short of a run disappeared through the fissure so like a
breach. The desertion was in view of his Genoese, of whom a few followed him,
but not all. Many who had been serving the guns took swords and pikes, and
gathering about the Emperor, cried out:

"Give orders, Your Majesty. We will bide with you." He returned them a look full
of gratitude. "I thank you, gentlemen. Let us go down, and join our shields
across the street. To my guard I commit defence of the galley." Unfastening the
purple half-cloak at his back, and taking off his helmet, he called to his
sword-bearer: "Here, take thou these, and give me my sword.... Now, gallant
gentlemen--now, my brave countrymen--we will put ourselves in the keeping of
Heaven. Come!" They had not all gained the ground, however, when there arose a
clamor in their front, and the hordesmen appeared, and blocking up the passage,
opened upon them with arrows and stones, while such as had javelins and swords
attacked them hand to hand. The Christians behaved well, but none better than
Constantine. He fought with strength, and in good countenance; his blade quickly
reddened to the hilt. "Strike, my countrymen, for city and home. Strike, every
one, for _Christ and Holy Church!_"

And answering him: "_Christ and Holy Church!_" they all fought as they had
strength, and their swords were also reddened to the hilt. Quarter was not
asked; neither was it given. Theirs to hold the ground, and they held it. They
laid the hordesmen out over it in scattered heaps which grew, and presently
became one long heap the width of the alley; and they too fell, but, as we are
willing to believe, unconscious of pain because lapped in the delirium of
battle-fever. Five minutes--ten--fifteen--then through the breach by which
Justiniani ingloriously fled Theophilus Palaeologus came with bared brand to
vindicate his imperial blood by nobly dying; and with him came Count Corti,
Francesco de Toledo, John the Dalmatian, and a score and more Christian
gentlemen who well knew the difference between an honorable death and a
dishonored life. Steadily the sun arose. Half the street was in its light, the
other half in its shade; yet the struggle endured; nor could any man have said
God was not with the Christians. Suddenly a louder shouting arose behind them.
They who could, looked to see what it meant, and the bravest stood stone still
at sight of the Janissaries swarming on the galley. Over the roasting bodies of
their comrades, undeterred by the inextinguishable fire, they had crossed the
ditch, and were slaying the imperial body-guard. A moment, and they would be in
the alley, and then--

Up rose a wail: "The Janissaries, the Janissaries! _Kyrie Eleison!_" Through the
knot of Christians it passed--it reached Constantine in the forefront, and he
gave way to the antagonist with whom he was engaged. "God receive my soul!" he
exclaimed; and dropping his sword, he turned about, and rushed back with wide
extended arms. "Friends--countrymen!--Is there no Christian to kill me?" Then
they understood why he had left his helmet off. While those nearest stared at
him, their hearts too full of pity to do him the last favor one can ask of
another, from the midst of the hordesmen there came a man of singular unfitness
for such a scene--indeed a delicate woman had not been more out of place--for he
was small, stooped, withered, very white haired, very pale, and much bearded--a
black velvet cap on his head, and a gown of the like about his body, unarmed,
and in every respect unmartial. He seemed to glide in amongst the Christians as
he had glided through the close press of the Turks; and as the latter had given
him way, so now the sword points of the Christians went down--men in the heat of
action forgot themselves, and became bystanders--such power was there in the
unearthly eyes of the apparition. "Is there no Christian to kill me?" cried the
Emperor again. The man in velvet stood before him. "Prince of India!" "You know
me? It is well; for now I know you are not beyond remembering." The voice was
shrill and cutting, yet it shrilled and cut the sharper. "Remember the day I
called on you to acknowledge God, and give him his due of worship. Remember the
day I prayed you on my knees to lend me your power to save my child, stolen for
a purpose by all peoples held unholy. Behold your executioner!" He stepped back,
and raised a hand; and ere one of those standing by could so much as cry to God,
Nilo, who, in the absorption of interest in his master, had followed him
unnoticed--Nilo, gorgeous in his barbarisms of Kash-Cush, sprang into the
master's place. He did not strike; but with infinite cruel cunning of hand--no
measurable lapse of time ensuing--drew the assegai across the face of the
astonished Emperor. Constantine--never great till that moment of death, but then
great forever--fell forward upon his shield, calling in strangled utterance:
"God receive my soul!" The savage set his foot upon the mutilated countenance,
crushing it into a pool of blood. An instant, then through the petrified throng,
knocking them right and left, Count Corti appeared. "_For Christ and Irene!_" he
shouted, dashing the spiked boss of his shield into Nilo's eyes--down upon the
feathered coronal he brought his sword--and the negro fell sprawling upon the
Emperor. Oblivious to the surroundings, Count Corti, on his knees, raised the
Emperor's head, slightly turning the face--one look was enough. "His soul is
sped!" he said; and while he was tenderly replacing the head, a hand grasped his
cap. He sprang to his feet. Woe to the intruder, if an enemy! The sword which
had known no failure was drawn back to thrust--above the advanced foot the
shield hung in ready poise--between him and the challenger there was only a
margin of air and the briefest interval of time--his breath was drawn, and his
eyes gleamed with vengeful murder--but--some power invisible stayed his arm, and
into his memory flashed the lightning of recognition. "Prince of India," he
shouted, "never wert thou nearer death!" "Thou--liest! Death--and--I"--

The words were long drawn between gasps, and the speech was never finished. The
tongue thickened, then paralyzed. The features, already distorted with passion,
swelled, and blackened horribly. The eyes rolled back--the hands flew up, the
fingers apart and rigid--the body rocked--stiffened--then fell, sliding from the
Count's shield across the dead Emperor. The combat meantime had gone on. Corti,
with a vague feeling that the Prince's flight of soul was a mystery in keeping
with his life, took a second to observe him, and muttered: "Peace to him also!"
Looking about him then, he was made aware that the Christians, attacked in front
and rear, were drawing together around the body of Constantine--that their
resistance was become the last effort of brave men hopeless except of the
fullest possible payment for their lives. This was succeeded by a conviction of
duty done on his part, and of every requirement of honor fulfilled; thereupon
with a great throb of heart, his mind reverted to the Princess Irene waiting for
him in the chapel. He must go to her. But how? And was it not too late? There
are men whose wits are supernaturally quickened by danger. The Count, pushing
through the intervening throng, boldly presented himself to the Janissaries,
shouting while warding the blows they aimed at him:

"Have done, O madmen! See you not I am your comrade, Mirza the Emir? Have done,
I say, and let me pass. I have a message for the Padishah!" He spoke Turkish,
and having been an idol in the barracks--their best swordsman--envied, and at
the same time beloved--they knew him, and with acclamations opened their files,
and let him pass. By the fissure which had served Justiniani, he escaped from
the terrible alley, and finding his Berbers and his horse, rode with speed for
the residence of the Princess Irene. Not a Christian survived the combat. Greek,
Genoese, Italian lay in ghastly composite with hordesmen and mailed Moslems
around the Emperor. In dying they had made good their battle-cry--_For Christ
and Holy Church!_ Let us believe they will yet have their guerdon. About an hour
after the last of them had fallen, when the narrow passage was deserted by the
living--the conquerors having moved on in search of their hire--the Prince of
India aroused, and shook himself free of the corpses cumbering him. Upon his
knees he gazed at the dead--then at the place--then at the sky. He rubbed his
hands--made sure he was sound of person--he seemed uncertain, not of life, but
of himself. In fact, he was asking, Who am I? And the question had reference to
the novel sensations of which he was conscious. What was it coursing through his
veins? Wine?--Elixir?--Some new principle which, hidden away amongst the stores
of nature, had suddenly evolved for him? The weights of age were gone. In his
body--bones, arms, limbs, muscles--he recognized once more the glorious impulses
of youth; but his mind--he started--the ideas which had dominated him were
beginning to return--and memory! It surged back upon him, and into its wonted
chambers, like a wave which, under pressure of a violent wind, has been
momentarily driven from a familiar shore. He saw, somewhat faintly at first, the
events which had been promontories and lofty peaks cast up out of the level of
his long existence. Then THAT DAY and THAT EVENT! How distinctly they reappeared
to him! They must be the same--must be--for he beheld the multitude on its way
to Calvary, and the Victim tottering under the Cross; he heard the Tribune ask,
"Ho, is this the street to Golgotha?" He heard his own answer, "I will guide
you;" and he spit upon the fainting Man of Sorrows, and struck him. And then the
words--"TARRY THOU TILL I COME!" identified him to himself. He looked at his
hands--they were black with what had been some other man's life-blood, but under
the stain the skin was smooth--a little water would make them white. And what
was that upon his breast? Beard--beard black as a raven's wing! He plucked a
lock of hair from his head. It, too, was thick with blood, but it was black.
Youth--youth--joyous, bounding, eager, hopeful youth was his once more! He stood
up, and there was no creak of rust in the hinges of his joints; he knew he was
standing inches higher in the sunlit air; and a cry burst from him--"O God, I
give thanks!" The hymn stopped there, for between him and the sky, as if it were
ascending transfigured, he beheld the Victim of the Crucifixion; and the eyes,
no longer sad, but full of accusing majesty, were looking downward at him, and
the lips were in speech: "TARRY THOU TILL I COME!" He covered his face with his
hands. Yes, yes, he had his youth back again, but it was with the old mind and
nature--youth, that the curse upon him might, in the mortal sense, be eternal!
And pulling his black hair with his young hands, wrenching at his black beard,
it was given him to see he had undergone his fourteenth transformation, and that
between this one and the last there was no lapse of connection. Old age had
passed, leaving the conditions and circumstances of its going to the youth which
succeeded. The new life in starting picked up and loaded itself with every
burden and all the misery of the old. So now while burrowing, as it were,
amongst dead men, his head upon the breast of the Emperor whom, treating Nilo as
an instrument in his grip, he had slain, he thought most humanly of the effects
of the transformation. First of all, his personal identity was lost, and he was
once more a Wanderer without an acquaintance, a friend, or a sympathizer on the
earth. To whom could he now address himself with a hope of recognition? His
heart went out primarily to Lael--he loved her. Suppose he found her, and
offered to take her in his arms; she would repulse him. "Thou art not my father.
He was old--thou art young." And Syama, whose bereavements of sense had
recommended him for confidant in the event of his witnessing the dreaded
circumstance just befallen--if he addressed himself to Syama, the faithful
creature would deny him. "No; my master was old--his hair and beard were white--
thou art a youth. Go hence." And then Mahommed, to whom he had been so useful in
bringing additional empire, and a glory which time would make its own forever--
did he seek Mahommed again--"Thou art not the Prince of India, my peerless
Messenger of the Stars. He was old--his hair and beard were white--thou art a
boy. Ho, guards, take this impostor, and do with him as ye did with Balta-Ogli
stretch him on the ground, and beat the breath out of him." There is nothing
comes to us, whether in childhood or age, so crushing as a sense of isolation.
Who will deny it had to do with the marshalling of worlds, and the peopling them
--with creation? These reflections did but wait upon the impulse which still
further identified him to himself--the impulse to go and keep going--and he cast
about for solaces. "It is the Judgment," he said, with a grim smile; "but my
stores remain, and Hiram of Tyre is yet my friend. I have my experience of more
than a thousand years, and with it youth again. I cannot make men better, and
God refuses my services. Nevertheless I will devise new opportunities. The earth
is round, and upon its other side there must be another world. Perhaps I can
find some daring spirit equal to the voyage and discovery--some one Heaven may
be more willing to favor. But this meeting place of the old continents"--he
looked around him, and then to the sky--"with my farewell, I leave it the curse
of the most accursed. The desired of nations, it shall be a trouble to them
forever." Then he saw Nilo under a load of corpses, and touched by remembrance
of the poor savage's devotion, he uncovered him to get at his heart, which was
still beating. Next he threw away his cap and gown, replaced them with a bloody
tarbousche and a shaggy Angora mantle, selected a javelin, and sauntered
leisurely on into the city. Having seen Constantinople pillaged by Christians,
he was curious to see it now sacked by Moslems--there might be a further solace
in the comparison. [Footnote: According to the earliest legends, the Wandering
Jew was about thirty years old when he stood in the road to Golgotha, and struck
the Saviour, and ordered him to go forward. At the end of every hundred years,
the undying man falls into a trance, during which his body returns to the age it
was when the curse was pronounced. In all other respects he remains unchanged.]
CHAPTER XIII

MAHOMMED IN SANCTA SOPHIA

Count Corti, we may well believe, did not spare his own steed, or those of his
Berbers; and there was a need of haste of which he was not aware upon setting
out from St. Romain. The Turks had broken through the resistance of the
Christian fleet in the harbor, and were surging into the city by the gate St.
Peter (Phanar), which was perilously near the residence of the Princess Irene.
Already the spoil-seekers were making sure of their hire. More than once he
dashed by groups of them hurrying along the streets in search of houses most
likely to repay plundering. There were instances when he overtook hordesmen
already happy in the possession of "strings of slaves;" that is to say, of
Greeks, mostly women and children, tied by their hands to ropes, and driven
mercilessly on. The wailing and prayers of the unfortunate smote the Count to
the heart; he longed to deliver them; but he had given his best efforts to save
them in the struggle to save the city, and had failed; now it would be a
providence of Heaven could he rescue the woman waiting for him in such faith as
was due his word and honor specially plighted to her. As the pillagers showed no
disposition to interfere with him, he closed his eyes and ears to their
brutalities, and sped forward. The district in which the Princess dwelt was
being overrun when he at last drew rein at her door. With a horrible dread, he
alighted, and pushed in unceremoniously. The reception-room was empty. Was he
too late? Or was she then in Sancta Sophia? He flew to the chapel, and blessed
God and Christ and the Mother, all in a breath. She was before the altar in the
midst of her attendants. Sergius stood at her side, and of the company they
alone were perfectly self-possessed. A white veil lay fallen over her shoulders;
save that, she was in unrelieved black. The pallor of her countenance, caused,
doubtless, by weeks of care and unrest, detracted slightly from the marvelous
beauty which was hers by nature; but it seemed sorrow and danger only increased
the gentle dignity always observable in her speech and manner. "Princess Irene,"
he said, hastening forward, and reverently saluting her hand, "if you are still
of the mind to seek refuge in Sancta Sophia, I pray you, let us go thither." "We
are ready," she returned. "But tell me of the Emperor." The Count bent very low.
"Your kinsman is beyond insult and further humiliation. His soul is with God."
Her eyes glistened with tears, and partly to conceal her emotion she turned to
the picture above the altar, and said, in a low voice, and brokenly:

"O Holy Mother, have thou his soul in thy tender care, and be with me now, going
to what fate I know not." The young women surrounded her, and on their knees
filled the chapel with sobbing and suppressed wails. Striving for composure
himself, the Count observed them, and was at once assailed by an embarrassment.
They were twenty and more. Each had a veil over her head; yet from the delicacy
of their hands he could imagine their faces, while their rank was all too
plainly certified by the elegance of their garments. As a temptation to the
savages, their like was not within the walls. How was he to get them safely to
the Church, and defend them there? He was used to military problems, and
decision was a habit with him; still he was sorely tried--indeed, he was never
so perplexed. The Princess finished her invocation to the Holy Mother. "Count
Corti," she said, "I now place myself and these, my sisters in misfortune, under
thy knightly care. Only suffer me to send for one other.--Go, Sergius, and bring
Lael." One other! "Now God help me!" he cried, involuntarily; and it seemed he
was heard. "Princess," he returned, "the Turks have possession of the streets.
On my way I passed them with prisoners whom they were driving, and they appeared
to respect a right of property acquired. Perhaps they will be not less observant
to me; wherefore bring other veils here--enough to bind these ladies two and
two." As she seemed hesitant, he added: "Pardon me, but in the streets you must
all go afoot, to appearances captives just taken." The veils were speedily
produced, and the Princess bound her trembling companions in couples hand to
hand; submitting finally to be herself tied to Lael. Then when Sergius was more
substantially joined to the ancient Lysander, the household sallied forth. A
keener realization of the situation seized the gentler portion of the procession
once they were in the street, and they there gave way to tears, sobs, and loud
appeals to the Saints and Angels of Mercy. The Count rode in front; four of his
Berbers moved on each side; Sheik Hadifah guarded the rear; and altogether a
more disconsolate company of captives it were hard imagining. A rope passing
from the first couple to the last was the only want required to perfect the
resemblance to the actual slave droves at the moment on nearly every
thoroughfare in Constantinople. The weeping cortege passed bands of pillagers
repeatedly. Once what may be termed a string in fact was met going in the
opposite direction; women and children, and men and women were lashed together,
like animals, and their lamentations were piteous. If they fell or faltered,
they were beaten. It seemed barbarity could go no further. Once the Count was
halted. A man of rank, with a following at his heels, congratulated him in
Turkish:

"O friend, thou hast a goodly capture." The stranger came nearer. "I will give
you twenty gold pieces for this one," pointing to the Princess Irene, who,
fortunately, could not understand him--"and fifteen for this one." "Go thy way,
and quickly," said Corti, sternly. "Dost thou threaten me?" "By the Prophet, yes
--with my sword, and the Padishah." "The Padishah! Oh, ho!" and the man turned
pale. "God is great--I give him praise." At last the Count alighted before the
main entrance of the Church. By friendly chance, also--probably because the site
was far down toward the sea, in a district not yet reached by the hordesmen--the
space in front of the vestibule was clear of all but incoming fugitives; and he
had but to knock at the door, and give the name of the Princess Irene to gain
admission. In the vestibule the party were relieved of their bonds; after which
they passed into the body of the building, where they embraced each other, and
gave praise aloud for what they considered a final deliverance from death and
danger; in their transports, they kissed the marbles of the floor again and
again. While this affecting scene was going on, Corti surveyed the interior. The
freest pen cannot do more than give the view with a clearness to barely
stimulate the reader's imagination. It was about eleven o'clock. The smoke of
battle which had overlain the hills of the city was dissipated; so the sun,
nearing high noon, poured its full of splendor across the vast nave in rays
slanted from south to north, and a fine, almost impalpable dust hanging from the
dome in the still air, each ray shone through it in vivid, half-prismatic relief
against the shadowy parts of the structure. Such pillars in the galleries as
stood in the paths of the sunbeams seemed effulgent, like emeralds and rubies.
His eyes, however, refused everything except the congregation of people. "O
Heaven!" he exclaimed. "What is to become of these poor souls!" Byzantium, it
must be recalled, had had its triumphal days, when Greeks drew together, like
Jews on certain of their holy occasions; undoubtedly the assemblages then were
more numerous, but never had there been one so marked by circumstances. This was
the funeral day of the Empire! Let the reader try to recompose the congregation
the Count beheld--civilians--soldiers--nuns--monks--monks bearded, monks shaven,
monks tonsured--monks in high hats and loose veils, monks in gowns scarce
distinguishable from gowns of women--monks by the thousand. Ah, had they but
dared a manly part on the walls, the cause of the Christ for whom they affected
such devotion would not have suffered the humiliation to which it was now going!
As to the mass in general, let the reader think of the rich jostled by the poor
--fine ladies careless if their robes took taint from the Lazarus' next them--
servants for once at least on a plane with haughty masters--Senators and slaves
--grandsires--mothers with their infants--old and young, high and low, all in
promiscuous presence--society at an end--Sancta Sophia a universal last refuge.
And by no means least strange, let the reader fancy the refugees on their knees,
silent as ghosts in a tomb, except that now and then the wail of a child broke
the awful hush, and gazing over their shoulders, not at the altar, but toward
the doors of entrance; then let him understand that every one in the smother of
assemblage--every one capable of thought--was in momentary expectation of a
miracle. Here and there moved priestly figures, holding crucifixes aloft, and
halting at times to exhort in low voices: "Be not troubled, O dearly beloved of
Christ! The angel will appear by the old column. If the powers of hell are not
to prevail against the Church, what may men do against the sword of God?" The
congregation was waiting for the promised angel to rescue them from the
Barbarians. Of opinion that the chancel, or space within the railing of the apse
opposite him, was a better position for his charge than the crowded auditorium,
partly because he could more easily defend them there, and partly because
Mahommed when he arrived would naturally look for the Princess near the altar,
the Count, with some trouble, secured a place within it behind the brazen
balustrade at the right of the gate. The invasion of the holy reserve by the
Berbers was viewed askance, but submitted to; thereupon the Princess and her
suite took to waiting and praying. Afterwhile the doors in the east were barred
by the janitor. Still later there was knocking at them loud enough to be by
authority. The janitor had become deaf. Later still a yelling as of a mob out in
the vestibule penetrated to the interior, and a shiver struck the expectant
throng, less from a presentiment of evil at hand than a horrible doubt. An angel
of the Lord would hardly adopt such an incongruous method of proclaiming the
miracle done. A murmur of invocation began with those nearest the entrances, and
ran from the floor to the galleries. As it spread, the shouting increased in
volume and temper. Ere long the doors were assailed. The noise of a blow given
with determination rang dreadful warning through the whole building, and the
concourse arose. The women shrieked: "The Turks! The Turks!" Even the nuns who
had been practising faith for years joined their lay sisters in crying: "The
Turks! The Turks!" The great, gowned, cowardly monks dropped their crucifixes,
and, like the commoner sons of the Church, howled: "The Turks! The Turks!"
Finally the doors were battered in, and sure enough--there stood the hordesmen,
armed and panoplied each according to his tribe or personal preference--each a
most unlikely delivering angel. This completed the panic. In the vicinity of the
ruined doors everybody, overcome by terror, threw himself upon those behind, and
the impulsion thus started gained force while sweeping on. As ever in such
cases, the weak were the sufferers. Children were overrun--infants dashed from
the arms of mothers--men had need of their utmost strength--and the wisdom of
the Count in seeking the chancel was proved. The massive brazen railing hardly
endured the pressure when the surge reached it; but it stood, and the Princess
and her household--all, in fact, within the chancel--escaped the crushing, but
not the horror. The spoilsmen were in strength, but they were prudently slow in
persuading themselves that the Greeks were unarmed, and incapable of defending
the Church. Ere long they streamed in, and for the first time in the history of
the edifice the colossal Christ on the ceiling above the altar was affronted by
the slogan of Islam--_Allah-il-Allah_. Strange now as it may appear to the
reader, there is no mention in the chronicles of a life lost that day within the
walls of Sancta Sophia. The victors were there for plunder, not vengeance, and
believing there was more profit in slaves than any other kind of property, their
effort was to save rather than kill. The scene was beyond peradventure one of
the cruelest in history, but the cruelty was altogether in taking possession of
captives. Tossing their arms of whatever kind upon their backs, the savages
pushed into the pack of Christians to select whom they would have. We may be
sure the old, sick, weakly, crippled, and very young were discarded, and the
strong and vigorous chosen. Remembering also how almost universally the hordes
were from the East, we may be sure a woman was preferred to a man, and a pretty
woman to an ugly one. The hand shrinks from trying to depict the agonies of
separation which ensued--mothers torn from their children, wives from husbands--
their shrieks, entreaties, despair--the mirthful brutality with which their
pitiful attempts at resistance were met--the binding and dragging away--the last
clutch of love--the final disappearance. It is only needful to add that the
rapine involved the galleries no less than the floor. All things considered, the
marvel is that the cry--there was but one, just as the sounds of many waters are
but one to the ear--which then tore the habitual silence of the august temple
should have ever ceased--and it would not if, in its duration, human sympathy
were less like a flitting echo. Next to women, the monks were preferred, and the
treatment they received was not without its touches of grim humor. Their cowls
were snatched off, and bandied about, their hats crushed over their ears, their
veils stuffed in their mouths to stifle their outcries, their rosaries converted
into scourges; and the laughter when a string of them passed to the doors was
long and loud. They had pulled their monasteries down upon themselves. If the
Emperor, then lying in the bloody alley of St. Romain, dead through their
bigotry, superstition, and cowardice, had been vengeful in the slightest degree,
a knowledge of the judgment come upon them so soon would have been at least
restful to his spirit. It must not be supposed Count Corti was indifferent while
this appalling scene was in progress. The chancel, he foresaw, could not escape
the foray. There was the altar, loaded with donatives in gold and precious
stones, a blazing pyramidal invitation. When the doors were burst in, he paused
a moment to see if Mahommed were coming. "The hordes are here, O Princess, but
not the Sultan." She raised her veil, and regarded him silently. "I see now but
one resort. As Mirza the Emir, I must meet the pillagers by claiming the Sultan
sent me in advance to capture and guard you for him." "We are at mercy, Count
Corti," she replied. "Heaven deal with you as you deal with us." "If the ruse
fails, Princess, I can die for you. Now tie yourselves as before--two and two,
hand to hand. It may be they will call on me to distinguish such as are my
charge." She cast a glance of pity about her. "And these, Count--these poor
women not of my house, and the children--can you not save them also?" "Alas,
dear lady! The Blessed Mother must be their shield." While the veils were being
applied, the surge against the railing took place, leaving a number of dead and
fainting across it. "Hadifah," the Count called out, "clear the way to yon chair
against the wall." The Sheik set about removing the persons blockading the
space, and greatly affected by their condition, the Princess interceded for
them. "Nay, Count, disturb them not. Add not to their terror, I pray." But the
Count was a soldier; in case of an affray, he wanted the advantage of a wall at
his back. "Dear lady, it was the throne of your fathers, now yours. I will seat
you there. From it you can best treat with the Lord Mahommed." Ere long some of
the hordes--half a dozen or more--came to the chancel gate. They were of the
rudest class of Anatolian shepherds, clad principally in half-cloaks of shaggy
goat skin. Each bore at his back a round buckler, a bow, and a clumsy quiver of
feathered arrows. Awed by the splendor of the altar and its surroundings, they
stopped; then, with shouts, they rushed at the tempting display, unmindful of
the living spoils crouched on the floor dumb with terror. Others of a like kind
reenforced them, and there was a fierce scramble. The latest comers turned to
the women, and presently discovered the Princess Irene sitting upon the throne.
One, more eager than the rest, was indisposed to respect the Berbers. "Here are
slaves worth having. Get your ropes," he shouted to his companions. The Count
interposed. "Art thou a believer?" he asked in Turkish. They surveyed him
doubtfully, and then turned to Hadifah and his men, tall, imperturbable looking,
their dark faces visible through their open hoods of steel. They looked at their
shields also, and at their bare cimeters resting points to the floor. "Why do
you ask?" the man returned. "Because, as thou mayst see, we also are of the
Faithful, and do not wish harm to any whose mothers have taught them to begin
the day with the Fah-hat." The fellow was impressed. "Who art thou?" "I am the
Emir Mirza, of the household of our Lord the Padishah--to whom be all the
promises of the Koran! These are slaves I selected for him--all these thou seest
in bonds. I am keeping them till he arrives. He will be here directly. He is now
coming." A man wearing a bloody tarbousche joined the pillagers, during this
colloquy, and pressing in, heard the Emir's name passing from mouth to mouth.
"The Emir Mirza! I knew him, brethren. He commanded the caravan, and kept the
_mahmals,_ the year I made the pilgrimage.... Stand off, and let me see." After
a short inspection, he continued: "Truly as there is no God but God, this is he.
I was next him at the most holy corner of the Kaaba when he fell down struck by
the plague. I saw him kiss the Black Stone, and by virtue of the kiss he
lived.... Ay, stand back--or if you touch him, or one of these in his charge,
and escape his hand, ye shall not escape the Padishah, whose first sword he is,
even as Khalid was first sword for the Prophet--exalted be his name!... Give me
thy hand, O valiant Emir." He kissed the Count's hand. "Arise, O son of thy
father," said Corti; "and when our master, the Lord Mahommed, hath set up his
court and harem, seek me for reward." The man stayed awhile, although there was
no further show of interference; and he looked past the Princess to Lael
cowering near her. He took no interest in what was going on around him--Lael
alone attracted him. At last he shifted his sheepskin covering higher upon his
shoulders, and left these words with the Count:

"The women are not for the harem. I understand thee, O Mirza. When the Lord
Mahommed hath set up his court, do thou tell the little Jewess yonder that her
father the Prince of India charged thee to give her his undying love." Count
Corti was wonder struck--he could not speak--and so the Wandering Jew vanished
from his sight as he now vanishes from our story. The selection among the other
refugees in the chancel proceeded until there was left of them only such as were
considered not worth the having. A long time passed, during which the Princess
Irene sat with veil drawn close, trying to shut out the horror of the scene. Her
attendants, clinging to the throne and to each other, seemed a heap of dead
women. At last a crash of music was heard in the vestibule--drums, cymbals, and
trumpets in blatant flourish. Four runners, slender lads, in short, sleeveless
jackets over white shirts, and wide trousers of yellow silk, barefooted and
bareheaded, stepped lightly through the central doorway, and, waving wands
tipped with silver balls, cried, in long-toned shrill iteration: "The Lord
Mahommed--Mahommed, Sultan of Sultans." The spoilsmen suspended their hideous
labor--the victims, moved doubtless by a hope of rescue, gave over their
lamentations and struggling--only the young children, and the wounded, and
suffering persisted in vexing the floor and galleries. Next to enter were the
five official heralds. Halting, they blew a triumphant refrain, at which the
thousands of eyes not too blinded by misery turned to them. And Mahommed
appeared! He too had escaped the Angel of the false monks! When the fighting
ceased in the harbor, and report assured him of the city at mercy, Mahommed gave
order to make the Gate St. Romain passable for horsemen, and with clever
diplomacy summoned the Pachas and other military chiefs to his tent; it was his
pleasure that they should assist him in taking possession of the prize to which
he had been helped by their valor. With a rout so constituted at his back, and
an escort of _Silihdars_ mounted, the runners and musicians preceding him, he
made his triumphal entry into Constantinople, traversing the ruins of the towers
Bagdad and St. Romain. He was impatient and restless. In their ignorance of his
passion for the Grecian Princess, his ministers excused his behavior on account
of his youth [Footnote: He was in his twenty-third year.] and the greatness of
his achievement. Passing St. Romain, it was also observed he took no interest in
the relics of combat still there. He gave his guides but one order:

"Take me to the house the _Gabours_ call the Glory of God." "Sancta Sophia, my
Lord?" "Sancta Sophia--and bid the runners run." His Sheik-ul-Islam was pleased.
"Hear!" he said to the dervishes with him. "The Lord Mahommed will make mosques
of the houses of Christ before sitting down in one of the palaces. His first
honors are to God and the Prophet." And they dutifully responded: "Great are God
and his Prophet! Great is Mahommed, who conquers in their names!" The public
edifices by which he was guided--churches, palaces, and especially the high
aqueduct, excited his admiration; but he did not slacken the fast trot in which
he carried his loud cavalcade past them until at the Hippodrome. "What thing of
devilish craft is here?" he exclaimed, stopping in front of the Twisted
Serpents. "Thus the Prophet bids me!" and with a blow of his mace, he struck off
the lower jaw of one of the Pythons. Again the dervishes shouted: "Great is
Mahommed, the servant of God!" It was his preference to be taken to the eastern
front of Sancta Sophia, and in going the guides led him by the corner of the
Bucoleon. At sight of the vast buildings, their incomparable colonnades and
cornices, their domeless stretches of marble and porphyry, he halted the second
time, and in thought of the vanity of human glory, recited:

"The spider hath woven his web in the imperial palace;     And the owl hath sung
her watch-song on the towers of       Afrasiab." In the space before the Church,
as elsewhere along the route he had come, the hordes were busy carrying off
their wretched captives; but he affected not to see them. They had bought the
license of him, many of them with their blood. At the door the suite dismounted.
Mahommed however, kept his saddle while surveying the gloomy exterior. Presently
he bade:

"Let the runners and the heralds enter." Hardly were they gone in, when he spoke
to one of his pages: "Here, take thou this, and give me my cimeter." And then,
receiving the ruby-hilted sword of Solomon in exchange for the mace of Ilderim,
without more ado he spurred his horse up the few broad stone steps, and into the
vestibule. Thence, the contemptuous impulse yet possessing him, he said loudly:
"The house is defiled with idolatrous images. Islam is in the saddle." In such
manner--mounted, sword in hand, shield behind him--clad in beautiful gold-washed
chain mail, the very ideal of the immortal Emir who won Jerusalem from the
Crusaders, and restored it to Allah and the Prophet--Mahommed made his first
appearance in Sancta Sophia. Astonishment seized him. He checked his horse.
Slowly his gaze ranged over the floor--up to the galleries--up--up to the
swinging dome--in all architecture nothing so nearly a self-depending sky.
"Here, take the sword--give me back my mace," he said. And in a fit of
enthusiasm, not seeing, not caring for the screaming wretches under hoof, he
rode forward, and, standing at full height in his stirrups, shouted: "Idolatry
be done! Down with the Trinity. Let Christ give way for the last and greatest of
the Prophets! To God the one God, I dedicate this house!" Therewith he dashed
the mace against a pillar; and as the steel rebounded, the pillar trembled.
[Footnote: The guides, if good Moslems, take great pleasure in showing tourists
the considerable dent left by this blow in the face of the pillar.] "Now give me
the sword again, and call Achmet, my muezzin--Achmet with the flute in his
throat." The moods of Mahommed were swift going and coming. Riding out a few
steps, he again halted to give the floor a look. This time evidently the house
was not in his mind. The expression on his face became anxious. He was searching
for some one, and moved forward so slowly the people could get out of his way,
and his suite overtake him. At length he observed the half-stripped altar in the
apse, and went to it. The colossal Christ on the ceiling peered down on him
through the shades beginning to faintly fill the whole west end. Now he neared
the brazen railing of the chancel--now he was at the gate--his countenance
changed--his eyes brightened--he had discovered Count Corti. Swinging lightly
from his saddle, he passed with steps of glad impatience through the gateway.
Then to Count Corti came the most consuming trial of his adventurous life. The
light was still strong enough to enable him to see across the Church.
Comprehending the flourish of the heralds, he saw the man on horseback enter;
and the mien, the pose in the saddle, the rider's whole outward expose of
spirit, informed him with such certainty as follows long and familiar
association, that Mahommed was come--Mahommed, his ideal of romantic orientalism
in arms. A tremor shook him--his cheek whitened. To that moment anxiety for the
Princess had held him so entirely he had not once thought of the consequences of
the wager lost; now they were let loose upon him. Having saved her from the
hordes, now he must surrender her to a rival--now she was to go from him
forever. Verily it had been easier parting with his soul. He held to his cimeter
as men instantly slain sometimes keep grip on their weapons; yet his head sunk
upon his breast, and he saw nothing more of Mahommed until he stood before him
inside the chancel. "Count Corti, where is"--

Mahommed caught sight of the Count's face. "Oh, my poor Mirza!" A volume of
words could not have so delicately expressed sympathy as did that altered tone.
Taking off his steel glove, the fitful Conqueror extended the bare hand, and the
Count, partially recalled to the situation by the gracious offer, sunk to his
knees, and carried the hand to his lips. "I have kept the faith, my Lord," he
said in Turkish, his voice scarcely audible. "This is she behind me--upon the
throne of her fathers. Receive her from me, and let me depart." "My poor Mirza!
We left the decision to God, and he has decided. Arise, and hear me now." To the
notables closing around, he said, imperiously: "Stand not back. Come up, and
hear me." Stepping past the Count, then, he stood before the Princess. She arose
without removing her veil, and would have knelt; but Mahommed moved nearer, and
prevented her. The training of the politest court in Europe was in her action,
and the suite looking on, used to slavishness in captives, and tearful humility
in women, he held her with amazement; nor could one of them have said which most
attracted him, her queenly composure or her simple grace. "Suffer me, my Lord,"
she said to him; then to her attendants: "This is Mahommed the Sultan. Let us
pray him for honorable treatment." Presently they were kneeling, and she would
have joined them, but Mahommed again interfered. "Your hand, O Princess Irene! I
wish to salute it." Sometimes a wind blows out of the sky, and swinging the bell
in the cupola, starts it to ringing itself; so now, at sight of the only woman
he ever really loved overtaken by so many misfortunes, and actually threatened
by a rabble of howling slave-hunters, Mahommed's better nature thrilled with
pity and remorse, and it was only by an effort of will he refrained from
kneeling to her, and giving his passion tongue. Nevertheless a kiss, though on
the hand, can be made tell a tale of love, and that was what the youthful
Conqueror did. "I pray next that you resume your seat," he continued. "It has
pleased God, O daughter of a Palaeologus, to leave you the head of the Greek
people; and as I have the terms of a treaty to submit of great concern to them
and you, it were more becoming did you hear me from a throne.... And first, in
this presence, I declare you a free woman--free to go or stay, to reject or to
accept--for a treaty is impossible except to sovereigns. If it be your pleasure
to go, I pledge conveyance, whether by sea or land, to you and yours--
attendants, slaves, and property; nor shall there be in any event a failure of
moneys to keep you in the state to which you have been used." "For your grace,
Lord Mahommed, I shall beseech Heaven to reward you." "As the God of your faith
is the God of mine, O Princess Irene, I shall be grateful for your prayers....
In the next place, I entreat you to abide here; and to this I am moved by regard
for your happiness. The conditions will be strange to you, and in your going
about there will be much to excite comparisons of the old with the new; but the
Arabs had once a wise man, El Hatim by name--you may have heard of him"--he cast
a quick look at the eyes behind the veil--"El Hatim, a poet, a warrior, a
physician, and he left a saying: 'Herbs for fevers, amulets for mischances, and
occupation for distempers of memory.' If it should be that time proves powerless
over your sorrows, I would bring employment to its aid.... Heed me now right
well. It pains me to think of Constantinople without inhabitants or commerce,
its splendors decaying, its palaces given over to owls, its harbor void of
ships, its churches vacant except of spiders, its hills desolations to eyes afar
on the sea. If it become not once more the capital city of Europe and Asia, some
one shall have defeated the will of God; and I cannot endure that guilt or the
thought of it. 'Sins are many in kind and degree, differing as the leaves and
grasses differ,' says a dervish of my people; 'but for him who stands wilfully
in the eyes of the Most Merciful--for him only shall there be no mercy in the
Great Day.'... Yes, heed me right well--I am not the enemy of the Greeks, O
Princess Irene. Their power could not agree with mine, and I made war upon it;
but now that Heaven has decided the issue, I wish to recall them. They will not
listen to me. Though I call loudly and often, they will remember the violence
inflicted on them in my name. Their restoration is a noble work in promise. Is
there a Greek of trust, and so truly a lover of his race, to help me make the
promise a deed done? The man is not; but thou, O Princess--thou art. Behold the
employment I offer you! I will commission you to bring them home--even these
sorrowful creatures going hence in bonds. Or do you not love them so much?...
Religion shall not hinder you. In the presence of these, my ministers of state,
I swear to divide houses of God with you; half of them shall be Christian, the
other half Moslem; arid neither sect shall interfere with the other's worship.
This I will seal, reserving only this house, and that the Patriarch be chosen
subject to my approval. Or do you not love your religion so much?".... During
the discourse the Princess listened intently; now she would have spoken, but he
lifted his hand. "Not yet, not yet! it is not well for you to answer now. I
desire that you have time to consider--and besides, I come to terms of more
immediate concern to you.... Here, in the presence of these witnesses, O
Princess Irene, I offer you honorable marriage." Mahommed bowed very low at the
conclusion of this proposal. "And wishing the union in conscience agreeable to
you, I undertake to celebrate it according to Christian rite and Moslem. So
shall you become Queen of the Greeks--their intercessor--the restorer and
protector of their Church and worship--so shall you be placed in a way to serve
God purely and unselfishly; and if a thirst for glory has ever moved you, O
Princess, I present it to you a cupful larger than woman ever drank.... You may
reside here or in Therapia, and keep your private chapel and altar, and choose
whom you will to serve them. And these things I will also swear to and seal."
Again she would have interrupted him. "No--bear with me for the once. I invoke
your patience," he said. "In the making of treaties, O Princess, one of the
parties must first propose terms; then it is for the other to accept or reject,
and in turn propose. And this"--he glanced hurriedly around--"this is no time
nor place for argument. Be content rather to return to your home in the city or
your country-house at Therapia. In three days, with your permission, I will come
for your answer; and whatever it be, I swear by Him who is God of the world, it
shall be respected.... When I come, will you receive me?" "The Lord Mahommed
will be welcome." "Where may I wait on you?" "At Therapia," she answered.
Mahommed turned about then. "Count Corti, go thou with the Princess Irene to
Therapia. I know thou wilt keep her safely.--And thou, Kalil, have a galley
suitable for a Queen of the Greeks made ready on the instant, and let there be
no lack of guards despatched with it, subject to the orders of Count Corti, for
the time once more Mirza the Emir.... O Princess, if I have been peremptory,
forgive me, and lend me thy hand again. I wish to salute it." Again she silently
yielded to his request. Kalil, seeing only politics in the scene, marched before
the Princess clearing the way, and directly she was out of the Church. At the
suggestion of the Count, sedan chairs were brought, and she and her half-
stupefied companions carried to a galley, arriving at Therapia about the fourth
hour after sunset. Mahommed had indeed been imperious in the interview; but, as
he afterward explained to her, with many humble protestations, he had a part to
play before his ministers. No sooner was she removed than he gave orders to
clear the building of people and idolatrous symbols; and while the work was in
progress, he made a tour of inspection going from the floor to the galleries.
His wonder and admiration were unbounded. Passing along the right-hand gallery,
he overtook a pilferer with a tarbousche full of glass cubes picked from one of
the mosaic pictures. "Thou despicable!" he cried, in rage. "Knowest thou not
that I have devoted this house to Allah? Profane a Mosque, wilt thou?" And he
struck the wretch with the flat of his sword. Hastening then to the chancel, he
summoned Achmet, the muezzin. "What is the hour?" he asked. "It is the hour of
the fourth prayer, my Lord." "Ascend thou then to the highest turret of the
house, and call the Faithful to pious acknowledgment of the favors of God and
his Prophet--may their names be forever exalted." Thus Sancta Sophia passed from
Christ to Mahomet; and from that hour to this Islam has had sway within its
walls. Not once since have its echoes been permitted to respond to a Christian
prayer or a hymn to the Virgin. Nor was this the first instance when, to
adequately punish a people for the debasement and perversions of his
revelations, God, in righteous anger, tolerated their destruction. To-day there
are two cities, lights once of the whole earth, under curses so deeply graven in
their remains--sites, walls, ruins--that every man and woman visiting them
should be brought to know why they fell. Alas, for Jerusalem! Alas, for
Constantinople! POSTSCRIPTS. In the morning of the third day after the fall of
the city, a common carrier galley drew alongside the marble quay in front of the
Princess' garden at Therapia, and landed a passenger--an old, decrepit man,
cowled and gowned like a monk. With tottering steps he passed the gate, and on
to the portico of the classic palace. Of Lysander, he asked: "Is the Princess
Irene here or in the city?" "She is here." "I am a Greek, tired and hungry. Will
she see me?" The ancient doorkeeper disappeared, but soon returned. "She will
see you. This way." The stranger was ushered into the reception room. Standing
before the Princess, he threw back his cowl. She gazed at him a moment, then
went to him and, taking his hands, cried, her eyes streaming with tears: "Father
Hilarion! Now praised be God for sending you to me in this hour of uncertainty
and affliction!" Needless saying the poor man's trials ended there, and that he
never again went cold, or hungry, or in want of a place to lay his head. But
this morning, after breaking fast, he was taken into council, and the proposal
of marriage being submitted to him, he asked first:

"What are thy inclinations, daughter?" And she made unreserved confession. The
aged priest spread his hands paternally over her head, and, looking upward, said
solemnly: "I think I see the Great Designer's purpose. He gave thee, O daughter,
thy beauties of person and spirit, and raised thee up out of unspeakable
sorrows, that the religion of Christ should not perish utterly in the East. Go
forward in the way He has opened unto thee. Only insist that Mahommed present
himself at thy altar, and there swear honorable dealing with thee as his wife,
and to keep the treaty proposed by him in spirit and letter. Doth he those
things without reservation, then fear not. The old Greek Church is not all we
would have it, but how much better it is than irreligion; and who can now say
what will happen once our people are returned to the city?" *       *       *
*       *

In the afternoon, a boat with one rower touched at the same marble quay, and
disembarked an Arab. His face was a dusty brown, and he wore an _abba_ such as
children of the Desert affect. His dark eyes were wonderfully bright, and his
bearing was high, as might be expected in the Sheik of a tribe whose camels were
thousands to the man, and who dwelt in dowars with streets after the style of
cities. On his right forearm he carried a crescent-shaped harp of five strings,
inlaid with colored woods and mother of pearl. "Does not the Princess Irene
dwell here?" he asked. Lysander, viewing him suspiciously, answered: "The
Princess Irene dwells here." "Wilt thou tell her one Aboo-Obeidah is at the door
with a blessing and a story for her?" The doorkeeper again disappeared, and,
returning, answered, with evident misgivings, "The Princess Irene prays you to
come in." Aboo-Obeidah tarried at the Therapian palace till night fell; and his
story was an old one then, but he contrived to make it new; even as at this day,
though four hundred and fifty years older than when he told it to the Princess,
women of white souls, like hers, still listen to it with downcast eyes and
flushing cheeks--the only story which Time has kept and will forever keep fresh
and persuasive as in the beginning'. They were married in her chapel at
Therapia, Father Hilarion officiating. Thence, when the city was cleansed of its
stains of war, she went thither with Mahommed, and he proclaimed her his Sultana
at a feast lasting through many days. And in due time he built for her the
palace behind Point Demetrius, yet known as the Seraglio. In other words,
Mahommed the Sultan abided faithfully by the vows Aboo-Obeidah made for him.
[Footnote: The throne of Mahommed was guarded by the numbers and fidelity of his
Moslem subjects; but his national policy aspired to collect the remnant of the
Greeks; and they returned in crowds as soon as they were assured of their lives,
their liberties, and the free exercise of their religion.... The churches of
Constantinople were shared between the two religions. GIBBON. ] And so, with
ampler means, and encouraged by Mahommed, the Princess Irene spent her life
doing good, and earned the title by which she became known amongst her
countrymen--The Most Gracious Queen of the Greeks. Sergius never took orders
formally. With the Sultana Irene and Father Hilarion, he preferred the enjoyment
and practice of the simple creed preached by him in Sancta Sophia, though as
between the Latins and the orthodox Greeks he leaned to the former. The active
agent dispensing the charities of his imperial benefactress, he endeared himself
to the people of both religions. Ere long, he married Lael, and they lived
happily to old age. *       *       *       *       *

Nilo was found alive, and recovering, joined Count Corti. *       *       *
*       *

Count Corti retained the fraternal affection of Mahommed to the last. The
Conqueror strove to keep him. He first offered to send him ambassador to John
Sobieski; that being declined, he proposed promoting him chief Aga of
Janissaries, but the Count declared it his duty to hasten to Italy, and devote
himself to his mother. The Sultan finally assenting, he took leave of the
Princess Irene the day before her marriage. An officer of the court representing
Mahommed conducted the Count to the galley built in Venice. Upon mounting the
deck he was met by the Tripolitans, her crew, and Sheik Hadifah, with his
fighting Berbers. He was then informed that the vessel and all it contained
belonged to him. The passage was safely made. From Brindisi he rode to Castle
Corti. To his amazement, it was completely restored. Not so much as a trace of
the fire and pillage it had suffered was to be seen. His reception by the
Countess can be imagined. The proofs he brought were sufficient with her, and
she welcomed him with a joy heightened by recollections of the years he had been
lost to her, and the manifest goodness of the Blessed Madonna in at last
restoring him--the joy one can suppose a Christian mother would show for a son
returned to her, as it were, from the grave. The first transports of the meeting
over, he reverted to the night he saw her enter the chapel: "The Castle was then
in ruins; how is it I now find it rebuilt?" "Did you not order the rebuilding?"
"I knew nothing of it." Then the Countess told him a man had presented himself
some months prior, with a letter purporting to be from him, containing
directions to repair the Castle, and spare no expense in the work.
"Fortunately," she said, "the man is yet in Brindisi." The Count lost no time in
sending for the stranger, who presented him a package sealed and enveloped in
oriental style, only on the upper side there was a _tughra_, or imperial seal,
which he at once recognized as Mahommed's. With eager fingers he took off the
silken wraps, and found a note in translation as follows:

"Mahommed the Sultan to Ugo, Count Corti, formerly Mirza the Emir. "The wager we
made, O my friend, who should have been the son of my mother, is not yet
decided, and as it is not given a mortal to know the will of the Most
Compassionate until he is pleased to expose it, I cannot say what the end will
be. Yet I love you, and have faith in you; and wishing you to be so assured
whether I win or lose, I send Mustapha to your country in advance with proofs of
your heirship, and to notify the noble lady, your mother, that you are alive,
and about returning to her. Also, forasmuch as a Turk destroyed it, he is
ordered to rebuild your father's castle, and add to the estate all the adjacent
lands he can buy; for verily no Countship can be too rich for the Mirza who was
my brother. And these things he will do in your name, not mine. And when it is
done, if to your satisfaction, O Count, give him a statement that he may come to
me with evidence of his mission discharged. "I commend you to the favor of the
Compassionate. MAHOMMED." When the missive was read, Mustapha knelt to the
Count, and saluted him. Then he conducted him into the chapel of the castle, and
going to the altar, showed him an iron door, and said:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, instructed me to deposit here certain treasure
with which he graciously intrusted me. Receive the key, I pray, and search the
vault, and view the contents, and, if it please you, give me a certificate which
will enable me to go back to my country, and live there a faithful servant of my
master, the Lord Mahommed--may he be exalted as the Faithful are!" Now when the
Count came to inspect the contents of the vault he was displeased; and seeing
it, Mustapha proceeded:

"My master, the Lord Mahommed, anticipated that you might protest against
receiving the treasure; if so, I was to tell you it was to make good in some
measure the sums the noble lady your mother has paid in searching for you, and
in masses said for the repose of your father's soul." Corti could not do else
than accept. Finally, to complete the narrative, he never married. The
reasonable inference is, he never met a woman with graces sufficient to drive
the Princess Irene from his memory. After the death of the Countess, his mother,
he went up to Rome, and crowned a long service as chief of the Papal Guard by
dying of a wound received in a moment of victory. Hadifah, the Berbers, and Nilo
chose to stay with him throughout. The Tripolitans were returned to their
country; after which the galley was presented to the Holy Father. Once every
year there came to the Count a special messenger from Constantinople with
souvenirs; sometimes a sword royally enriched, sometimes a suit of rare armor,
sometimes horses of El Hajez--these were from Mahommed. Sometimes the gifts were
precious relics, or illuminated Scriptures, or rosaries, or crosses, or
triptychs wonderfully executed--so Irene the Sultana chose to remind him of her
gratitude. Syama wandered around Constantinople a few days after the fall of the
city, looking for his master, whom he refused to believe dead. Lael offered him
asylum for life. Suddenly he disappeared, and was never seen or heard of more.
It may be presumed, we think, that the Prince of India succeeded in convincing
him of his identity, and took him to other parts of the world--possibly back to
Cipango. THE END.