Produced by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net

[Illustration: "THE DEVIL SIT IN FILON'S EYES AND LAUGH--LAUGH--SOME TIME HE GO
AWAY LIKE A MAN AT A WINDOW, BUT HE COME AGAIN. M'siu, he live there!" From a
Painting by E. Almond Withrow.] THE SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION

BY

GERTRUDE ATHERTON, MARY AUSTIN                GERALDINE BONNER, MARY HALLECK
FOOTE              ELEANOR GATES, JAMES HOPPER, JACK LONDON
BAILEY MILLARD, MIRIAM                      MICHELSON, W. C. MORROW
FRANK NORRIS, HENRY MILNER RIDEOUT              CHARLES WARREN STODDARD, ISOBEL
STRONG                      RICHARD WALTON TULLY AND
HERMAN WHITAKER

WITH A DEDICATORY POEM BY GEORGE STERLING

COLLECTED BY THE BOOK COMMITTEE OF THE SPINNERS' CLUB

ILLUSTRATED BY LILLIE V. O'RYAN, MAYNARD DIXON ALBERTINE RANDALL   WHEELAN,
MERLE JOHNSON E. ALMOND WITHROW AND GORDON ROSS INITIALS AND
DECORATIONS BY SPENCER WRIGHT

PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY SAN FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK

_Published in behalf_ _of The Spinners' Benefit Fund_                 _Ina D.
Coolbrith_ _First Beneficiary_             _Copyright_, 1907 _by_ PAUL ELDER AND
COMPANY

*       *       *       *       *

TO INA D. COOLBRITH

WITH WILDER SIGHING IN THE PINE       THE WIND WENT BY, AND SO I DREAMED;
AND IN THAT DUSK OF SLEEP IT SEEMED     A CITY BY THE SEA WAS MINE. TO STATELIER
SPRANG THE WALLS OF TYRE       FROM SEAWARD CLIFF OR STABLE HILL;       AND
LIGHT AND MUSIC MET TO FILL     THE SPLENDID COURTS OF HER DESIRE--

(EXTOLLING CHORDS THAT CRIED HER PRAISE,       AND GOLDEN REEDS WHOSE MELLOW
MOAN       WAS LIKE AN OCEAN'S UNDERTONE     DYING AND LOST ON FOREST WAYS). BUT
SWEETER FAR THAN ANY SOUND       THAT RANG OR RIPPLED IN HER HALLS,       WAS
ONE BEYOND HER EASTERN WALLS,     BY SUMMER GARDENS GIRDLED ROUND. TWAS FROM A
NIGHTINGALE, AND OH! THE SONG IT SANG HATH NEVER WORD! SWEETER IT SEEMED THAN
LOVE'S, FIRST-HEARD,     OR LUTES IN AIDENN MURMURING LOW. FAINT, AS WHEN DROWSY
WINDS AWAKE       A SISTERHOOD OF FAERY BELLS,       IT WON REPLY FROM HIDDEN
DELLS,     LOYAL TO ECHO FOR ITS SAKE.... I DREAMT I SLEPT, BUT CANNOT SAY
HOW MANY DREAMLAND SEASONS FLED,       NOR WHAT HORIZON OF THE DEAD     GAVE
BACK MY DREAM'S UNCERTAIN DAY. BUT STILL BESIDE THE TOILING SEA       I LAY, AND
SAW--FOR WALLS O'ERGROWN--       THE CITY THAT WAS MINE HAD KNOWN     TIME'S
SURE AND ANCIENT TREACHERY. ABOVE HER RAMPARTS, BROAD AS TYRE'S,       THE
GRASSES' MOUNTING ARMY BROKE;       THE SHADOW OF THE SPRAWLING OAK     USURPT
THE SPLENDOR OF HER FIRES. BUT O'ER THE FALLEN MARBLES PALE       I HEARD, LIKE
ELFIN MELODIES       BLOWN OVER FROM ENCHANTED SEAS,     THE MUSIC OF THE
NIGHTINGALE. GEORGE STERLING. THE STORIES

CONCHA ARGUeELLO, SISTER DOMINICA _by Gertrude Atherton_

THE FORD OF CREVECOEUR _by Mary Austin_

A CALIFORNIAN _by Geraldine Bonner_

GIDEON'S KNOCK _by Mary Halleck Foote_

A YELLOW MAN AND A WHITE _by Eleanor Gates_

THE JUDGMENT OF MAN _by James Hopper_

THE LEAGUE OF THE OLD MEN _by Jack London_

DOWN THE FLUME WITH THE SNEATH PIANO _by Bailey Millard_

THE CONTUMACY OF SARAH L. WALKER _by Miriam Michelson_

BREAKING THROUGH _by W. C. Morrow_

A LOST STORY _by Frank Norris_

HANTU _by Henry Milner Rideout_

MISS. JUNO _by Charles Warren Stoddard_

A LITTLE SAVAGE GENTLEMAN _by Isobel Strong_

LOVE AND ADVERTISING _by Richard Walton Tully_

THE TEWANA _by Herman Whitaker_

THE ILLUSTRATIONS

"The devil sit in Filon's eyes and laugh--laugh--some time he go away like a man
at a window, but he come again. M'siu, he _live_ there!" _from a painting by E.
Almond Withrow_

"She was always very sweet, our Concha, but there never was a time when you
could take a liberty with her." _from a painting by Lillie V. O'Ryan_

"The petal of a plum blossom." _from a painting by Albertine Randall Wheelan_

"Not twenty feet from me Miller sat upright in his canoe as if petrified." _Opp.
Page_ _from a painting by Merle Johnson_

"All their ways lead to death." _from a painting by Maynard Dixon_

"Dawn was flooding the east, and still the boy lurched and floundered on and
on." _from a painting by Gordon Ross_

WHEREFORE? _Wherefore this book of fiction by Californian writers? And why its
appeal otherwise than that of obvious esthetic and literary qualities? They who
read what follows will know._

_The fund, which the sale of this book is purposed to aid, was planned by The
Spinners soon after the eighteenth of April, 1906, and was started with two
hundred dollars from their treasury. To this, Mrs. Gertrude Atherton added
another two hundred dollars. Several women's clubs and private individuals also
generously responded, so that now there is a thousand dollars to the credit of
the fund. A bond has been bought and the interest from it will be paid to Ina D.
Coolbrith, the poet, and first chosen beneficiary of the fund. The Spinners feel
assured that this book will meet with such a ready sale as to make possible the
purchase of several bonds, and so render the accruing interest a steady source
of aid to Miss. Coolbrith._

_All who have read and fallen under the charm of her "Songs from the Golden
Gate," or felt the beauty and tenderness of the verses "When the Grass Shall
Cover Me," will, without question, unite in making "assurance doubly sure" to
such end._

_From the days of the old_ Overland Monthly, _when she worked side by side with
Bret Harte and Charles Warren Stoddard, to the present moment, Miss. Coolbrith's
name has formed a part of the literary history of San Francisco._

_The eighteenth of April, 1906, and the night which followed it, left her bereft
of all literary, and other, treasures; but her poem bearing the refrain, "Lost
city of my love and my desire," rings with the old genius, and expresses the
feeling of many made desolate by the destruction of the city which held their
most cherished memories._

_When Miss. Coolbrith shall no longer need to be a beneficiary of the fund, it
is intended that it shall serve to aid some other writer, artist or musician
whose fortunes are at the ebb._

_To the writers, artists and publishers who have so heartily and generously made
this book possible, The Spinners return unmeasured thanks._

_San Francisco, June 22, 1907._

CONCHA ARGUeELLO, SISTER DOMINICA

BY

GERTRUDE ATHERTON

DEDICATED TO CAROLINA XIMENO

Written for THE SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION _All Rights Reserved_

SISTER TERESA had wept bitterly for two days. The vanity for which she did
penance whenever her madonna loveliness, consummated by the white robe and veil
of her novitiate, tempted her to one of the little mirrors in the pupil's
dormitory, was powerless to check the blighting flow. There had been moments
when she had argued that her vanity had its rights, for had it not played its
part in weaning her from the world?--that wicked world of San Francisco, whose
very breath, accompanying her family on their monthly visits to Benicia, made
her cross herself and pray that all good girls whom fate had stranded there
should find the peace and shelter of Saint Catherine of Siena. It was true that
before Sister Dominica toiled up Rincon Hill on that wonderful day--here her
sobs became so violent that Sister Maria Sal, praying beside her with a face as
swollen as her own, gave her a sharp poke in the ribs, and she pressed her hands
to her mouth lest she be marched away. But her thoughts flowed on; she could
pray no more. Sister Dominica, with her romantic history and holy life, her halo
of fame in the young country, and her unconquerable beauty--she had never seen
such eyelashes, never, never!--_what_ was she thinking of at such a time? She
had never believed that such divine radiance could emanate from any mortal;
never had dreamed that beauty and grace could be so enhanced by a white robe and
a black veil----Oh, well! Her mind was in a rebellious mood; it had been in
leash too long. And what of it for once in a way? No ball dress she had ever
seen in the gay disreputable little city--where the good citizens hung the bad
for want of law--was half as becoming as the habit of the Dominican nun, and if
it played a part in weaning frivolous girls from the world, so much more to the
credit of Rome. God knew she had never regretted her flight up the bays, and
even had it not been for the perfidy of--she had forgotten his name; that at
least was dead!--she would have realized her vocation the moment Sister Dominica
sounded the call. When the famous nun, with that passionate humility all her
own, had implored her to renounce the world, protested that her vocation was
written in her face--she really looked like a juvenile mater dolorosa,
particularly when she rolled up her eyes--eloquently demanded what alternative
that hideous embryo of a city could give her--that rude and noisy city that
looked as if it had been tossed together in a night after one of its periodical
fires, where the ill-made sidewalks tripped the unwary foot, or the winter mud
was like a swamp, where the alarm bell summoned the Vigilance Committee day and
night to protect or avenge, where a coarse and impertinent set of adventurers
stared at and followed an inoffensive nun who only left the holy calm of the
convent at the command of the Bishop to rescue brands from the burning; then had
Teresa, sick with the tragedy of youth, an enchanting vision of secluded paths,
where nuns--in white--walked with downcast eyes and folded hands; of the daily
ecstasy of prayer in the convent chapel misty with incense. And in some
inscrutable way Sister Dominica during that long conversation, while Mrs. Grace
and her other daughters dispensed egg-nog in the parlor--it was New Year's Day--
had made the young girl a part of her very self, until Teresa indulged the fancy
that without and within she was a replica of that Concha Argueello of
California's springtime; won her heart so completely that she would have
followed her not only into the comfortable and incomparably situated convent of
the saint of Siena, but barefooted into that wilderness of Soledad where the
Indians still prayed for their lost "Beata." It was just eight months tonight
since she had taken her first vows, and she had been honestly aware that there
was no very clear line of demarcation in her fervent young mind between her love
of Sister Dominica and her love of God. Tonight, almost prostrate before the
coffin of the dead nun, she knew that so far at least all the real passion of
her youth had flowed in an undeflected tide about the feet of that remote and
exquisite being whose personal charm alone had made a convent possible in the
chaos that followed the discovery of gold. All the novices, many of the older
nuns, the pupils invariably, worshipped Sister Dominica; whose saintliness
without austerity never chilled them, but whose tragic story and the impression
she made of already dwelling in a heaven of her own, notwithstanding her sweet
and consistent humanity, placed her on a pinnacle where any display of affection
would have been unseemly. Only once, after the beautiful ceremony of taking the
white veil was over, and Teresa's senses were faint from incense and hunger,
ecstasy and a new and exquisite terror, Sister Dominica had led her to her cell
and kissing her lightly on the brow, exclaimed that she had never been happier
in a conquest for the Church against the vileness of the world. Then she had
dropped the conventional speech of her calling, and said with an expression that
made her look so young, so curiously virginal, that the novice had held her
breath: "Remember that here there is nothing to interrupt the life of the
imagination, nothing to change its course, like the thousand conflicting
currents that batter memory and character to pieces in the world. In this
monotonous round of duty and prayer the mind is free, the heart remains ever
young, the soul unspotted; so that when----" She had paused, hesitated a moment,
then abruptly left the room, and Teresa had wept a torrent in her disappointment
that this first of California's heroines--whose place in history and romance was
assured--had not broken her reserve and told her all that story of many
versions. She had begged Sister Maria Sal--the sister of Luis Argueello's first
wife--to tell it her, but the old nun had reproved her sharply for sinful
curiosity and upon one occasion boxed her ears. But tonight she might be in a
softer mood, and Teresa resolved that when the last rites were over she would
make her talk of Concha Argueello. A few moments later she was lifted to her
feet by a shaking but still powerful arm. "Come!" whispered Sister Maria. "It is
time to prepare. The others have gone. It is singular that the oldest and the
youngest should have loved her best. Ay! Dios de mi alma! I never thought that
Concha Argueello would die. Grow old she never did, in spite of the faded husk.
We will look at her once more." The dead nun in her coffin lay in the little
parlor where she had turned so many wavering souls from fleeting to eternal
joys. Her features, wasted during years of delicate health, seemed to regain
something of their youth in the soft light of the candles. Or was it the long
black eyelashes that hid the hollows beneath the eyes?--or the faint mysterious
almost mocking smile? Had the spirit in its eternal youth paused in its flight
to stamp a last sharp impress upon the prostrate clay? Never had she looked so
virginal, and that had been one of the most arresting qualities of her always
remarkable appearance; but there was something more--Teresa held her breath.
Somehow, dead and in her coffin, she looked less saintly than in life; although
as pure and sweet, there was less of heavenly peace on those marble features
than of some impassioned human hope. Teresa excitedly whispered her unruly
thoughts to Sister Maria, but instead of the expected reproof the old nun lifted
her shoulders. "Perhaps," she said. "Who knows?" *       *       *       *
*

It was Christmas eve and all the inmates of the convent paused in their sorrow
to rejoice in the happy portent of the death and burial of one whom they loyally
believed to be no less entitled to beatification than Catherine herself. Her
miracles may not have been of the irreducible protoplastic order, but they had
been miracles to the practical Californian mind, notwithstanding, and worthy of
the attention of consistory and Pope. Moreover, this was the season when all the
vivacity and gaiety of her youth had revived, and she made merry, not only for
the children left at the convent by their nomadic parents, but for all the
children of the town, whatever the faith of their somewhat anxious elders. An
hour after sundown they carried the bier on which her coffin rested into the
chapel. It was a solemn procession that none, taking part, was likely to forget,
and stirred the young hearts at least with an ecstatic desire for a life as
saintly as this that hardly had needed the crown of death. Following the bier
was the cross-bearer, holding the emblem so high it was half lost in the
shadows. Behind her were the young scholars dressed in black, then the novices
in their white robes and veils, carrying lighted tapers to symbolize the eternal
radiance that awaited the pure in spirit. The nuns finished the procession that
wound its way slowly through the long ill-lighted corridors, chanting the litany
of the dead. From the chapel, at first almost inaudible, but waxing louder every
moment, came the same solemn monotonous chant; for the Bishop and his assistants
were already at the altar....

Teresa, from the organ loft, looked eagerly down upon the beautiful scene, in
spite of the exaltation that filled her: her artistic sense was the one
individuality she possessed. The chapel was aglow with the soft radiance of many
wax candles. They stood in high candelabra against the somber drapery on the
walls, and there were at least a hundred about the coffin on its high catafalque
before the altar; the Argueellos were as prodigal as of old. About the
catafalque was an immense mound of roses from the garden of the convent, and
palms and pampas from the ranch of Santiago Argueello in the south. The black-
robed scholars knelt on one side of the dead, the novices on the other, the
relatives and friends behind. But art had perfected itself in the gallery above
the lower end of the chapel. This also was draped with black which seemed to
absorb, then shed forth again the mystic brilliance of the candles; and
kneeling, well apart, were the nuns in their ivory white robes and black veils,
their banded softened features as composed and peaceful as if their own reward
had come. The Bishop and the priests read the Requiem Mass, the little organ
pealed the _De Profundis_ as if inspired; and when the imperious triumphant
music of Handel followed, Teresa's fresh young soprano seemed, to her excited
imagination, to soar to the gates of heaven itself. When she looked down again
the lights were dim in the incense, her senses swam in the pungent odor of
spices and gum. The Bishop was walking about the catafalque casting holy water
with a brush against the coffin above. He walked about a second time swinging
the heavy copper censer, then pronounced the _Requiescat in pace_, "dismissing,"
as we find inscribed in the convent records, "a tired soul out of all the storms
of life into the divine tranquillity of death." The bier was again shouldered,
the procession reformed, and marched, still with lighted tapers and chanting
softly, out into the cemetery of the convent. It was a magnificent, clear night
and as mild as spring. Below the steep hill the little town of Benicia
celebrated the eve of Christmas with lights and noise. Beyond, the water
sparkled like running silver under the wide beams of the moon poised just above
the peak of Monte Diablo, the old volcano that towered high above this romantic
and beautiful country of water and tule lands, steep hillsides and canons, rocky
bluffs overhanging the straits. In spite of the faint discords that rose from
the town and the slow tolling of the convent bell, it was a scene of lofty and
primeval grandeur, a fit setting for the last earthly scene of a woman whose
lines had been cast in the wilderness, but yet had found the calm and the
strength and the peace of the old mountain, with its dead and buried fires. The
grave closed, the mourners returned to the convent, but not in order. At the
door Teresa felt her arm taken possession of by a strong hand with which she had
had more than one disconcerting encounter. "Let us walk," said Sister Maria Sal
in her harsh but strong old voice. "I have permission. I must talk of Concha
tonight or I should burst. It is not for nothing one keeps silent for years and
years. I at least am still human. And you loved her the best and have spoiled
your pretty face with weeping. You must not do that again, for the young love a
pretty nun and will follow her into the one true life on earth far sooner than
an ugly old phiz like mine." Sister Maria, indeed, retained not an index of the
beauty with which tradition accredited her youth. She was a stout unwieldy old
woman with a very red face covered half over with black down, and in the bright
moonlight Teresa could see the three long hairs that stood out straight from a
mole above her mouth and scratched the girls when she kissed them. Tonight her
nose was swollen and her eyes looked like appleseeds. Teresa hastily composed
her features and registered a vow that in her old age she would look like Sister
Dominica, not like that. She had heard that Concha, too, had been frivolous in
her youth, and had not she herself a tragic bit of a story? True, her youthful
love-tides had turned betimes from the grave beside the Mission Dolores to the
lovely nun and the God of both, and she had heard that Dona Concha had proved
her fidelity to a wonderful Russian throughout many years before she took the
veil. Perhaps--who knew?--her more conformable pupil might have restored the
worthless to her heart before he was knifed in the full light of day on
Montgomery Street by one from whom he had won more than thousands the night
before; perhaps have consoled herself with another less eccentric, had not
Sister Dominica sought her at the right moment and removed her from the
temptations of the world. Well, never mind, she could at least be a good nun and
an amiable instructor of youth, and if she never looked like a living saint she
would grow soberer and nobler with the years and take care that she grew not
stout and red. For a time Sister Maria did not speak, but walked rapidly and
heavily up and down the path, dragging her companion with her and staring out at
the beauty of the night. But suddenly she slackened her pace and burst into
speech. "Ay yi! Ay de mi! To think that it is nearly half a century--forty-two
years to be precise--for will it not be 1858 in one more week?--since Rezanov
sailed out through what Fremont has called 'The Golden Gate'! And forty-one in
March since he died--not from the fall of a horse, as Sir George Simpson (who
had not much regard for the truth anyway, for he gave a false picture of our
Concha), and even Doctor Langsdorff, who should have known better, wrote it, but
worn out, worn out, after terrible hardships, and a fever that devoured him inch
by inch. And he was so handsome when he left us! Dios de mi alma! never have I
seen a man like that. If I had I should not be here now, perhaps, so it is as
well. But never was I even engaged, and when permission came from Madrid for the
marriage of my sister Rafaella with Luis Argueello--he was an officer and could
not marry without a special license from the King, and through some strange
oversight he was six long years getting it--; well, I lived with them and took
care of the children until Rafaella--Ay yi! what a good wife she made him, for
he 'toed the mark,' as the Americans say--; well, she died, and one of those
days he married another; for will not men be men? And Luis was a good man in
spite of all, a fine loyal clever man, who deserves the finest monument in the
cemetery of the Mission Dolores--as they call it now. The Americans have no
respect for anything and will not say San Francisco de Assisi, for it is too
long and they have time for nothing but the gold. Were it not a sin, how I
should hate them, for they have stolen our country from us--but no, I will not;
and, to be sure, if Rezanov had lived he would have had it first, so what
difference? Luis, at least, was spared. He died in 1830--and was the first
Governor of Alta California after Mexico threw off the yoke of Spain. He had
power in full measure and went before these upstart conquerors came to humble
the rest of us into the dust. Peace to his ashes--but perhaps you care nothing
for this dear brother of my youth, never heard of him before--such a giddy thing
you were; although at the last earthquake the point of his monument flew
straight into the side of the church and struck there, so you may have heard the
talk before they put it back in its place. It is of Sister Dominica you think,
but I think not only of her but of those old days--Ay, Dios de mi! Who remembers
that time but a few old women like myself? "Concha's father, Don Jose Dario
Argueello, was Commandante of the Presidio of San Francisco then; and there was
nothing else to call San Francisco but the Mission. Down at Yerba Buena, where
the Americans flaunt themselves, there was but a Battery that could not give
even a dance. But we had dances at the Presidio; day and night the guitar
tinkled and the fiddles scraped; for what did we know of care, or old age, or
convents or death? I was many years younger than Rafaella and did not go to the
grand balls, but to the little dances, yes, many and many. When the Russians
came--it was in 1806--I saw them every day, and one night danced with Rezanov
himself. He was so gay--ay de mi! I remember he swung me quite off my feet and
made as if he would throw me in the air. I was angry that he should treat me
like a baby, and then he begged me so humbly to forgive him, although his eyes
laughed, that of course I did. He had come down from Sitka to try and arrange
for a treaty with the Spanish government that the poor men in the employ of the
Russian-American Company might have breadstuffs to eat and not die of scurvy,
nor toil through the long winter with no flesh on their bones. He brought a
cargo with him to exchange for our corn and flour meanwhile. We had never seen
any one so handsome and so grand and he turned all our heads, but he had a hard
time with the Governor and Don Jose--there are no such Californians now or the
Americans would never have got us--and it took all his diplomacy and all the
help Concha and the priests could give him before he got his way, for there was
a law against trading with foreigners. It was only when he and Concha became
engaged that Governor Arillaga gave in--how I pick up vulgar expressions from
these American pupils, I who should reform them! And did I not stand Ellen
O'Reilley in the corner yesterday for calling San Francisco 'Frisco'?--_San
Francisco de Assisi!_ But all the saints have fled from California. "Where was
I? Forgive an old woman's rambling, but I have not told stories since Rafaella's
children grew up, and that was many years ago. What do I talk here? You know.
And I that used to love to talk. Ay yi! But no one can say that I am not a good
nun. Bishop Alemany has said it and no one knows better than he, the holy man.
But for him I might be sitting all day on a corridor in the south sunning myself
like an old crocodile, for we had no convent till he came eight years ago; and
perhaps but for Concha, whom I always imitated, I might have a dozen brats of my
own, for I was pretty and had my wooers and might have been persuaded. And God
knows, since I must have the care of children, I prefer they should be mothered
by some one else for then I have always the hope to be rid of them the sooner.
Well, well! I am not a saint yet, and when I go to heaven I suppose Concha will
still shake her finger at me with a smile. Not that she was ever self-righteous,
our Concha. Not a bit of it. Only after that long and terrible waiting she just
naturally became a saint. Some are made that way and some are not. That is all.
"Did I tell you about the two young lieutenants that came with Baron Rezanov?
Davidov and Khostov their names were. Well, well, I shall tell all tonight. I
was but fourteen, but what will you? Was I not, then, Spanish? It was Davidov.
He always left the older people to romp with the children, although I think
there was a flame in his heart for Concha. Perhaps had I been older--who knows?
Do not look at my whiskers! That was forty-two years ago. Well, I dreamed of the
fair kind young Russian for many a night after he left, and when my time came to
marry I would look at none of the caballeros, but nursed Rafaella's babies and
thought my thoughts. And then--in 1815 I think it was--the good--and ugly--Dr.
Langsdorff sent Luis a copy of his book--he had been surgeon to his excellency--
and alas! it told of the terrible end of both those gay kind young men. They
were always too fond of brandy; we knew that, but we never--well, hear me! One
night not so many years after they sailed away from California, they met Dr.
Langsdorff and another friend of their American days, Captain D'Wolf, by
appointment in St. Petersburg for a grand reunion. They were all so happy!
Perhaps it was that made them too much 'celebrate,' as the Americans say in
their dialect. Well, alas! they celebrated until four in the morning, and then
my two dear young Russians--for I loved Khostov as a sister, so devoted he was
to my friend--well, they started--on foot--for home, and that was on the other
side of the Neva. They had almost crossed the bridge when they suddenly took it
into their heads that they wanted to see their friends again, and started back.
Alas, in the middle of the bridge was a section that opened to permit the
passage of boats with tall masts. The night was dark and stormy. The bridge was
open. They did not see it. The river was roaring and racing like a flood. A
sailor saw them fall, and then strike back for the coming boat. Then he saw them
no more. That was the last of my poor friends. "And we had all been so gay, so
gay! For how could we know? All the Russians said that never had they seen a
people so light-hearted and frolicking as the Californians, so hospitable, so
like one great family. And we were, we were. But you know of that time. Was not
your mother Conchitita Castro, if she did marry an American and has not taught
you ten words of Spanish? It is of Concha you would hear, and I ramble. Well,
who knows? perhaps I hesitate. Rezanov was of the Greek Church. No priest in
California would have married them even had Don Jose--_el santo_ we called him--
given his consent. It was for that reason Rezanov went to obtain a dispensation
from His Holiness and a license from the King of Spain. Concha knew that he
could not return for two years or nearly that, nor even send her a letter; for
why should ships come down from Sitka until the treaty was signed? Only Rezanov
could get what he wanted, law or no law. And then too our Governor had forbidden
the British and Bostonians--so we called the Americans in those days--to enter
our ports. This Concha knew, and when one knows one can think in storeys, as it
were, and put the last at the top. It is not so bad as the hope that makes the
heart thump every morning and the eyes turn into fountains at night. Dios! To
think that I should ever have shed a tear over a man. Chinchosas, all of them.
However--I think Concha, who was never quite as others, knew deep down in her
heart that he would not come back, that it was all too good to be true. Never
was a man seen as handsome as that one, and so clever--a touch of the devil in
his cleverness, but that may have been because he was a Russian. I know not. And
to be a great lady in St. Petersburg, and later--who can tell?--vice-Tsarina of
all this part of the world! No, it could not be. It was a fairy tale. I only
wonder that the bare possibility came into the life of any woman,--and that a
maiden of New Spain, in an unknown corner, that might as well have been on Venus
or Mars. "But Concha had character. She was not one to go into a decline--
although I am woman enough to know that her pillow was wet many nights; and
besides she lost the freshness of her beauty. She was often as gay as ever, but
she cared less and less for the dance, and found more to do at home. Don Jose
was made Commandante of the Santa Barbara Company that same year, and it was
well for her to be in a place where there were no memories of Rezanov. But late
in the following year as the time approached for his return, or news of him, she
could not contain her impatience. We all saw it--I was visiting the Pachecos in
the Presidio of Santa Barbara. She grew so thin. Her eyes were never still. We
knew. And then!--how many times she climbed to the fortress--it was on that high
bluff beside the channel--and stared out to sea--when 1808 and the Spring had
come--for hours together: Rezanov was to return by way of Mexico. Then, when I
went back to San Francisco soon after, she went with me, and again she would
watch the sea from the summit of Lone Mountain, as we call it now. In spite of
her reason she hoped, I suppose; for that is the way of women. Or perhaps she
only longed for the word from Sitka that would tell her the worst and have done
with it. Who knows? She never said, and we dared not speak of it. She was always
very sweet, our Concha, but there never was a time when you could take a liberty
with her. [Illustration: "SHE WAS ALWAYS VERY SWEET OUR CONCHA, BUT THERE NEVER
WAS A TIME WHEN YOU COULD TAKE A LIBERTY WITH HER." FROM A PAINTING BY LILLIE V.
O'RYAN.] "No ship came, but something else did--an earthquake! Ay yi, what an
earthquake that was! Not a _temblor_ but a _terremoto_. The whole Presidio came
down. I do not know now how we saved all the babies, but we always flew to the
open with a baby under each arm the moment an earthquake began, and in the first
seconds even this was not so bad. The wall about the Presidio was fourteen feet
high and seven feet thick and there were solid trunks of trees crossed inside
the adobe. It looked like a heap of dirt, nothing more. Luis was riding up from
the Battery of Yerba Buena and his horse was flung down and he saw the sand-
dunes heaving toward him like waves in a storm and shiver like quicksilver. And
there was a roar as if the earth had dropped and the sea gone after. Ay
California! And to think that when Luis wrote a bitter letter to Governor
Arillaga in Monterey, the old Mexican wrote back that he had felt earthquakes
himself and sent him a box of dates for consolation! Well--we slept on the
ground for two months and cooked out-of-doors, for we would not go even into the
Mission--which had not suffered--until the earthquakes were over; and if the
worst comes first there are plenty after--and, somehow, harder to bear. Perhaps
to Concha that terrible time was a God-send, for she thought no more of Rezanov
for a while. If the earthquake does not swallow your body it swallows your
little self. You are a flea. Just that and nothing more. "But after a time all
was quiet again; the houses were rebuilt and Concha went back to Santa Barbara.
By that time she knew that Rezanov would never come, although it was several
years before she had a word. Such stories have been told that she did not know
of his death for thirty years! Did not Baranhov, Chief-manager of the Russian-
Alaskan Company up there at Sitka, send Koskov--that name was so like!--to
Bodega Bay in 1812, and would he fail to send such news with him? Was not Dr.
Langsdorff's book published in 1814? Did not Kotzbue, who was on his
excellency's staff during the embassy to Japan, come to us in 1816, and did we
not talk with him every day for a month? Did not Rezanov's death spoil all
Russia's plans in this part of the world--perhaps, who knows? alter the course
of her history? It is likely we were long without hearing the talk of the North!
Such nonsense! Yes, she knew it soon enough, but as that good Padre Abella once
said to us, she had the making of the saint and the martyr in her, and even when
she could hope no more she did not die, nor marry some one else, nor wither up
and spit at the world. Long before the news came, indeed, she carried out a plan
she had conceived, so Padre Abella told us, even while Rezanov was yet here.
There were no convents in California in those days--you may know what a stranded
handful we were--but she joined the Tertiary or Third Order of Franciscans, and
wore always the grey habit, the girdle, and the cross. She went among the
Indians christianizing them, remaining a long while at Soledad, a bleak and
cheerless place, where she was also a great solace to the wives of the soldiers
and settlers, whose children she taught. The Indians called her 'La Beata,' and
by that name she was known in all California until she took the veil, and that
was more than forty years later. And she was worshipped, no less. So beautiful
she was, so humble, so sweet, and at the same time so practical; she had what
the Americans call 'hard sense,' and something of Rezanov's own way of managing
people. When she made up her mind to bring a sinner or a savage into the Church
she did it. You know. "But do not think she had her way in other things without
a struggle. Don Jose and Dona Ignacia--her mother--permitted her to enter upon
the religious life, for they understood; and Luis and Santiago made no protest
either, for they understood also and had loved Rezanov. But the rest of her
family, the relations, the friends, the young men--the caballeros! They went in
a body you might say to Don Jose and demanded that Concha, the most beautiful
and fascinating and clever girl in New Spain, should come back to the world
where she belonged,--be given in marriage. But Concha had always ruled Don Jose,
and all the protests went to the winds. And William Sturgis--the young Bostonian
who lived with us for so many years? I have not told you of him, and your mother
was too young to remember. Well, never mind. He would have taken Concha from
California, given her just a little of what she would have had as the wife of
Rezanov--not in himself; he was as ugly as my whiskers; but enough of the great
world to satisfy many women, and no one could deny that he was good and very
clever. But to Concha he was a brother--no more. Perhaps she did not even take
the trouble to refuse him. It was a way she had. After a while he went home to
Boston and died of the climate. I was very sorry. He was one of us. "And her
intellect? Concha put it to sleep forever. She never read another book of
travel, of history, biography, memoirs, essays, poetry--romance she had never
read, and although some novels came to California in time she never opened them.
It was peace she wanted, not the growing mind and the roving imagination. She
brought her conversation down to the level of the humblest, and perhaps--who
knows?--her thoughts. At all events, although the time came when she smiled
again, and was often gay when we were all together in the family--particularly
with the children, who came very fast, of course--well, she was then another
Concha, not that brilliant dissatisfied ambitious girl we had all known, who had
thought the greatest gentleman from the Viceroy's court not good enough to throw
gold at her feet when she danced El Son. "There were changes in her life. In
1814 Don Jose was made Gobernador Propietario of Lower California. He took all
of his unmarried children with him, and Concha thought it her duty to go. They
lived in Loreto until 1821. But Concha never ceased to pray that she might
return to California--we never looked upon that withered tongue of Mexico as
California; and when Don Jose died soon after his resignation, and her mother
went to live with her married daughters, Concha returned with the greatest
happiness she had known, I think, since Rezanov went. Was not California all
that was left her? "She lived in Santa Barbara for many years, in the house of
Don Jose de la Guerra--in that end room of the east wing. She had many
relations, it is true, but Concha was always human and liked relations better
when she was not surrounded by them. Although she never joined in any of the
festivities of that gay time she was often with the Guerra family and seemed
happy enough to take up her old position as Beata among the Indians and
children, until they built a school for her in Monterey. How we used to wonder
if she ever thought of Rezanov any more. From the day the two years were over
she never mentioned his name, and everybody respected her reserve, even her
parents. And she grew more and more reserved with the years, never speaking of
herself at all, except just after her return from Mexico. But somehow we knew.
And did not the very life she had chosen express it? Even the Church may not
reach the secret places of the soul, and who knows what heaven she may have
found in hers? And now? I think purgatory is not for Concha, and he was not bad
as men go, and has had time to do his penance. It is true the Church tells us
there is no marrying in heaven--but, well, perhaps there is a union for mated
spirits of which the Church knows nothing. You saw her expression in her coffin.
"Well! The time arrived when we had a convent. Bishop Alemany came in 1850, and
in the first sermon he preached in Santa Barbara--I think it was his first in
California--he announced that he wished to found a convent. He was a Dominican,
but one order was as another to Concha; she had never been narrow in anything.
As soon as the service was over, before he had time to leave the church, she
went to him and asked to be the first to join. He was glad enough, for he knew
of her and that no one could fill his convent as rapidly as she. Therefore was
she the first nun, the first to take holy vows, in our California. For a little,
the convent was in the old Hartnell house in Monterey, but Don Manuel Ximeno had
built a great hotel while believing, with all the rest, that Monterey would be
the capital of the new California as of the old, and he was glad to sell it to
the Bishop. We were delighted--of course I followed when Concha told me it was
my vocation--that the Americans preferred Yerba Buena. "Concha took her first
vows in April, soon after the Bishop's arrival, choosing the name Sister Maria,
Dominica. On the 13th of April 1852 she took the black veil and perpetual vows.
Of course the convent had a school at once. Concha's school had been a convent
of a sort and the Bishop merely took it over. All the flower of California have
been educated by Concha Argueello, including Chonita Estenega who is so great a
lady in Mexico today. Two years later we came here, and here we shall stay, no
doubt. I think Concha loved Benicia better than any part of California she had
known, for it was still California without too piercing reminders of the past:
life at the other Presidios and Missions was but the counterpart of our San
Francisco, and here the priests and military had never come. In this beautiful
wild spot where the elk and the antelope and the deer run about like rabbits,
and you meet a bear if you go too far--Holy Mary!--where she went sometimes in a
boat among the tules on the river, and where one may believe the moon lives in a
silver lake in the old crater of Monte Diablo--Ay, it was different enough and
might bring peace to any heart. What she must have suffered for years in those
familiar scenes! But she never told. And now she lies here under her little
cross and he in Krasnoiarsk--under a stone shaped like an altar, they say. Well!
who knows? That is all. I go in now; my old bones ache with the night damp. But
my mind is lighter, although never I shall speak of this again. And do you not
think of it any more. Curiosity and the world and such nonsense as love and
romance are not for us. Go to bed at once and tie a stocking round your throat
that you have not a frog in it tomorrow morning when you sing 'Glory be to God
on High.' _Buen Dias!_"

THE FORD OF CREVECOEUR

BY

MARY AUSTIN

Reprinted from _Out West_ by permission. YES. I understand; you are M'siu the
Notary, M'siu the Sheriff has told me. You are come to hear how by the help of
God I have killed Filon Geraud at the ford of Crevecoeur. By the help of God,
yes. Think you if the devil had a hand in it, he would not have helped Filon?
For he was the devil's own, was Filon. He was big, he was beautiful, he had a
way--but always there was the devil's mark. I see that the first time ever I
knew him at Agua Caliente. The devil sit in Filon's eyes and laugh--laugh--some
time he go away like a man at a window, but he come again. M'siu, he _live_
there! And Filon, he know that I see, so he make like he not care; but I think
he care a little, else why he make for torment me all the time? Ever since I see
him at that shearing at Agua Caliente eight, ten year gone, he not like for let
me be. I have been the best shearer in that shed, snip--snip--quick, clean. Ah,
it is beautiful! All the sheepmen like for have me shear their sheep. Filon is
new man at that shearing, Lebecque is just hire him then; but yes, M'siu, to see
him walk about that Agua Caliente you think he own all those sheep, all that
range. Ah--he had a way! Pretty soon that day Filon is hearing all sheepmen say
that Raoul is the best shearer; then he come lean on the rail by my shed and
laugh softly like he talk with himself, and say, "See the little man; see him
shear." But me, I can no more. The shears turn in my hand so I make my sheep all
bleed same like one butcher. Then I look up and see the devil in Filon Geraud's
eye. It is always so after that, all those years until I kill Filon. If I make a
little game of poker with other shepherds then he walks along and say:

"Ah, you, Raoul, you is one sharp fellow. I not like for play with you." Then is
my play all gone bad. But if Filon play, then he say, "Come, you little man, and
bring me the good luck." It is so, M'siu! If I go stand by that game, Filon is
win, win all the time. That is because of the devil. And if there are women--no,
M'siu, there was never _one_ woman. What would a shepherd, whose work is always
toward the hills, do with a woman? Is it to plant a vineyard that others may
drink wine? Ah, non! But me, at shearings and at Tres Pinos where we pay the
tax, there I like to talk to pretty girl same as other shepherds, then Filon
come make like he one gran' friend. All the time he make say the compliments, he
make me one mock. His eyes they laugh always, that make women like to do what he
say. But me, I have no chance. It is so, M'siu, when I go out with my sheep.
This is my trail--I go out after the shearing through the Canada de las Vinas,
then across the Little Antelope, while the grass is quick. After that I go up
toward the hills of Olancho, where I keep one month; there is much good feed and
no man comes. Also then I wait at Tres Pinos for the sheriff that I pay the tax.
_Sacre_! it is a hard one, that tax! After that I am free of the Sierras, what
you call _Nieve_--snowy. Well I know that country. I go about with my sheep and
seek my meadows--_mine_, M'siu, that I have climbed the great mountains to spy
out among the pines, that I have found by the grace of God, and my own wit: La
Crevasse, Moultrie, Bighorn, Angostura. Also, I go by other meadows where other
shepherds feed one month with another; but these _these_ are all _mine_. I go
about and come again when the feed is grown. M'siu, it is hard to believe, but
it is so--Filon finds my meadows one by one. One year I come by La Crevasse--
there is nothing there; I go on to Moultrie--here is the grass eaten to the
roots, and the little pines have no tops; at Bighorn is the fresh litter of a
flock. I think maybe my sheep go hungry that summer. So I come to Angostura.
There is Filon. He laugh. Then it come into my mind that one day I goin' kill
that Filon Geraud. By the help of God. Yes. For he is big that Filon, he is
strong; and me, M'siu, I am as God made me. So always, where I go on the range
there is Filon; if I think to change my trail, he change also his. If I have
good luck, Filon has better. If to him is the misfortune--ah--you shall hear.
One year Gabriel Lausanne tell me that Filon is lose all his lambs in the Santa
Ana. You know that Santa Ana, M'siu? It is one mighty wind. It comes up small,
very far away, one little dust like the clouds, creep, creep close by the land.
It lies down along the sand; you think it is done? Eh, it is one liar, that
Santa Ana. It rise up again, it is pale gold, it seek the sky. That sky is all
wide, clean, no speck. Ah, it knows, that sky; it will have nothing lying about
when the Santa Ana comes. It is hot then, you have the smell of the earth in
your nostrils. _That_, M'siu, is the Santa Ana. It is pale dust and the great
push of the wind. The sand bites, there is no seeing the flock's length. They
huddle, and the lambs are smothered; they scatter, and the dogs can nothing
make. If it blow one day, you thank God; if it blow two days, then is sheepman
goin' to lose his sheep. When Gabriel tell me that about Filon, I think he
deserve all that. What you think, M'siu? That same night the water of Tinpah
rise in his banks afar off by the hills where there is rain. It comes roaring
down the wash where I make my camp, for you understand at that time of year
there should be no water in the wash of Tinpah, but it come in the night and
carry away one-half of my sheep. Eh, how you make that, M'siu; is it the devil
or no? Well, it go like this eight, ten year; then it come last summer, and I
meet Filon at the ford of Crevecoeur. That is the water that comes down eastward
from Mineral Mountain between Olancho and Sentinel Rock. It is what you call
Mineral Creek, but the French shepherds call it Crevecoeur. For why; it is a
most swift and wide water; it goes darkly between earthy banks upon which it
gnaws. It has hot springs which come up in it without reason, so that there is
no safe crossing at any time. Its sands are quick; what they take, they take
wholly with the life in it, and after a little they spew it out again. And, look
you, it makes no singing, this water of Crevecoeur. Twenty years have I kept
sheep between Red Butte and the Temblor Hills, and I say this. Make no fear of
singing water, for it goes not too deeply but securely on a rocky bottom; such a
one you may trust. But this silent one, that is hot or cold, deep or shallow,
and has never its banks the same one season with another, this you may not
trust, M'siu. And to get sheep across it--ah--it breaks the heart, this
Crevecoeur. Nevertheless, there is one place where a great rock runs slantwise
of the stream, but under it, so that the water goes shallowly with a whisper,
ah, so fast, and below it is a pool. Here on the rocks the shepherds make pine
logs to lie with stones so that the sheep cross over. Every year the water
carries the logs away and the shepherds build again, and there is no shepherd
goes by that water but lose some sheep. Therefore, they call it the ford of
Crevecoeur [Break-heart]. Well, I have been about by the meadow of Angostura
when it come last July, and there I see Narcisse Duplin. He is tell me the feed
is good about Sentinel Rock, so I think me to go back by the way of Crevecoeur.
There is pine wood all about eastward from that place. It is all shadow there at
midday and has a weary sound. Me, I like it not, that pine wood, so I push the
flock and am very glad when I hear toward the ford the bark of dogs and the
broken sound of bells. I think there is other shepherd that make talk with me.
But me, M'siu, _sacre! damn!_ when I come out by the ford there is Filon Geraud.
He has come up one side Crevecoeur, with his flock, as I have come up the other.
He laugh. "Hillo, Raoul," say Filon, "will you cross?" "I will cross," say I.
"After me," say Filon. "Before," say I.

M'siu does not know about sheep? Ah, non. It is so that the sheep is most scare
of all beasts about water. Never so little a stream will he cross, but if the
dogs compel him. It is the great trouble of shepherds to get the flock across
the waters that go in and about the Sierras. For that it is the custom to have
two, three goats with the flocks to go first across the water, then they will
follow. But here at Crevecoeur it is bad crossing any way you go; also that day
it is already afternoon. Therefore I stand at one side that ford and make talk
with Filon at the other about who goes first. Then my goat which leads my flock
come push by me and I stand on that log while we talk. He is one smart goat.
"Eh, Raoul, let the goats decide," cries Filon, and to that I have agree. Filon
push his goat on the log, he is one great black one that is call Diable--I ask
you is that a name for a goat? I have call mine Noe. So they two walk on that
log very still; for they see what they have to do. Then they push with the head,
Diable and Noe, till that log it rock in the water; Filon is cry to his goat and
I to mine. Then because of that water one goat slip on the log, and the other is
push so hard that he cannot stop; over they go into the pool of swift water,
over and over until they come to the shallows; then they find their feet and
come up, each on his own side. They will not care to push with the heads again
at that time. Filon he walk out on the log to me, and I walk to him. "My goat
have won the ford," says he. "Your goat cannot keep what he wins." "But I can,"
say Filon. Then he look at me with his eyes like--like I have told you, M'siu.
"Raoul," he say, "you is one little man." With that I remember me all the wrong
I have had from this one. "Go you after your goat, Filon Geraud," say I. With
that I put my staff behind his foot, so, M'siu, and send him into the water,
splash! He come to his feet presently in the pool with the water all in his hair
and his eyes, and the stream run strong and dark against his middle. "Hey, you,
Raoul, what for you do that?" he say, but also he laugh. "Ah, ha, little man,
you have the joke this time." M'siu, that laugh stop on his face like it been
freeze, his mouth is open, his eyes curl up. It is terrible, that dead laugh in
the midst of the black water that run down from his hair. "Raoul," he say, "_the
sand is quick_!" Then he take one step, and I hear the sand suck. I see Filon
shiver like a reed in the swift water. "_My God_," he say, "_the sand is
quick_!" M'siu, I do not know how it is with me. When I throw Filon in the pool,
I have not known it is quick-sand; but when I hear that, I think I am glad. I
kneel down by that log in the ford and watch Filon. He speak to me very quiet:

"You must get a rope and make fast to that pine and throw the end to me. There
is a rope in my pack." "Yes," say I, "there is a rope." So I take my flocks
across the ford, since Filon is in the water, and take all those silly ones
toward La Crevasse, and after I think about that business. Three days after, I
meet P'tee Pete. I tell him I find the sheep of Filon in the pine wood below
Sentinel Rock. Pete, he say that therefore Filon is come to some hurt, and that
he look for him. That make me scare lest he should look by the ford of
Crevecoeur. So after that, five or six days, when Narcisse Duplin is come up
with me, I tell him Filon is gone to Sacramento where his money is; therefore I
keep care of his sheep. That is a better tale--eh, M'siu,--for I have to say
something. Every shepherd in that range is know those sheep of Filon. All this
time I think me to take the sheep to Pierre Jullien in the meadow of Black
Mountain. He is not much, that Pierre. If I tell him it is one gift from _Le bon
Dieu_, that is explain enough for Pierre Jullien. Then I will be quit of the
trouble of Filon Geraud. So, M'siu, would it have been, but for that dog Helene.
That is Filon's she-dog that he raise from a pup. She is--she is _une femme_,
that dog! All that first night when we come away from the ford, she cry, cry in
her throat all through the dark, and in the light she look at me with her eyes,
so to say:

"I know, Raoul! I know what is under the water of Crevecoeur." M'siu, is a man
to stand that from a dog? So the next night I beat her, and in the morning she
is gone. I think me the good luck to get rid of her. That Helene! M'siu, what
you think she do? She have gone back to look in the water for Filon. There she
stay, and all sheepmen when they pass that way see that she is a good sheepdog,
and that she is much hungry; so they wonder that she will not leave off to look
and go with them. After while all people in those parts is been talkin' about
that dog of Filon's that look so keen in the water of Crevecoeur. Mebbe four,
five weeks after that I have killed Filon, one goes riding by that place and
sees Helene make mourn by the waterside over something that stick in the sand.
It is Filon. Yes. That quick-sand have spit him out again. So you say; but me, I
think it is the devil. For the rest the sheriff has told you. Here they have
brought me, and there is much talk. Of that I am weary, but for this I tell you
all how it is about Filon; M'siu, I would not hang. Look you, so long as I stay
in this life I am quit of that man, but if I die--there is Filon. So will he do
unto me all that I did at the ford of Crevecoeur, and more; for he is a bad one,
Filon. Therefore it is as I tell you, M'siu, I, Raoul. By the help of God. Yes.
A CALIFORNIAN

BY

GERALDINE BONNER

From _Harper's Magazine_ _Copyright_, 1905, by Harper and Brothers

IT WAS nearly ten o'clock when Jack Faraday ascended the steps of Madame
Delmonti's bow-windowed mansion and pressed the electric bell. He was a little
out of breath and nervous, for, being young and a stranger to San Francisco, and
almost a stranger to Madame Delmonti, he did not exactly know at what hour his
hostess's _conversazione_ might begin, and had upon him the young man's violent
dread of being conspicuously early or conspicuously late. It did not seem that
he was either. As he stood in the doorway and surveyed the field, he felt, with
a little rising breath of relief, that no one appeared to take especial notice
of him. Madame Delmonti's rooms were lit with a great blaze of gas, which,
thrown back from many long mirrors and the gold mountings of a quantity of
furniture and picture frames, made an effect of dazzling yellow brightness, as
brilliantly glittering as the transformation scene of a pantomime. In the middle
of the glare Madame Delmonti's company had disposed themselves in a circle,
which had some difficulty in accommodating itself to the long narrow shape of
the drawing-room. Now and then an obstinate sofa or extra large plush-covered
arm-chair broke the harmonious curve of the circle, and its occupant looked
furtively ill at ease, as if she felt the embarrassment of her position in not
conforming to the general harmony of the curving line. The eyes of the circle
were fixed on a figure at the piano, near the end of the room--a tall dark
Jewess in a brown dress and wide hat, who was singing with that peculiar vibrant
richness of tone that is so often heard in the voices of the Californian
Jewesses. She was perfectly self-possessed, and her velvet eyes, as her
impassioned voice rose a little, rested on Jack Faraday with a cheerful but not
very lively interest. Then they swept past him to where on a sofa, quite out of
the circle, two women sat listening. One was a young girl, large, well-dressed,
and exceedingly handsome; the other a peaked lady, passee and thin, with her
hair bleached to a canary yellow. The Jewess, still singing, smiled at them, and
the girl gave back a lazy smile in return. Then as the song came to a deep and
mellow close, Madame Delmonti, with a delicate rustling of silk brushing against
silk, swept across the room and greeted her guest. Madame Delmonti was an
American, very rich, a good deal made up, but still pretty, and extremely well
preserved. Signor Delmonti, an Italian baritone, whom she had married, and
supported ever since, was useful about the house, as he now proved by standing
at a little table and ladling punch into small glasses, which were distributed
among the guests by the two little Delmonti girls in green silk frocks. Madame
Delmonti, with her rouged cheeks and merry grey eyes, as full of sparkle as they
had been twenty years ago, was very cordial to her guest, asking him, as they
stood in the doorway, whom he would best like to meet. "Maud Levy, who has been
singing," she said, "is one of the belles in Hebrew society. She has a fine
voice. You have no objection, Mr. Faraday, to knowing Jews?" Faraday hastily
disclaimed all race prejudices, and she continued, discreetly designating the
ladies on the sofa:

"There are two delightful girls. Mrs. Peck, the blonde, is the society writer
for the _Morning Trumpet_. She is an elegant woman of a very fine Southern
family, but she has had misfortunes. Her marriage was unhappy. She and Peck are
separated now, and she supports herself and her two children. There was no hope
of getting alimony out of that man." "And that is Genevieve Ryan beside her,"
Madame Delmonti went on. "I think you'd like Genevieve. She's a grand girl. Her
father, you know, is Barney Ryan, one of our millionaires. He made his money in
a quick turn in Con. Virginia, but before that he used to drive the Marysville
coach, and he was once a miner. He's crazy about Genevieve and gives her five
hundred a month to dress on. I'm sure you'll get on very well together. She's
such a refined, pleasant girl"----and Madame Delmonti, chattering her praises of
Barney Ryan's handsome daughter, conducted the stranger to the shrine. Miss.
Genevieve smiled upon him, much as she had upon the singer, and brushing aside
her skirts of changeable green and heliotrope silk, showed him a little golden-
legged chair beside her. Mrs. Peck and Madame Delmonti conversed with unusual
insight and knowledge on the singing of Maud Levy, and Faraday was left to
conduct the conversation with the heiress of Barney Ryan. She was a large,
splendid-looking girl, very much corseted, with an ivory-tinted skin, eyes as
clear as a young child's and smooth freshly red lips. She was a good deal
powdered on the bridge of her nose, and her rich hair was slightly tinted with
some reddish dye. She was a picture of health and material well being. Her
perfectly fitting clothes sat with wrinkleless exactitude over a figure which in
its generous breadth and finely curved outline might have compared with that of
the Venus of Milo. She let her eyes, shadowed slightly by the white lace edge of
her large hat, whereon two pink roses trembled on large stalks, dwell upon
Faraday with a curious and frank interest entirely devoid of coquetry. Her
manner, almost boyish in its simple directness, showed the same absence of this
feminine trait. While she looked like a goddess dressed by Worth, she seemed
merely a good-natured, phlegmatic girl just emerging from her teens. Faraday had
made the first commonplaces of conversation, when she asked, eyeing him closely,
"Do you like it out here?" "Oh, immensely," he responded, politely. "It's such a
fine climate." "It is a good climate," admitted Miss. Ryan, with unenthusiastic
acquiescence; "but we are not so proud of that as we are of the good looks of
the Californian women. Don't you think the women are handsome?" Faraday looked
into her clear and earnest eyes. "Oh splendid," he answered, "especially their
eyes." Miss. Ryan appeared to demur to this commendation. "It's generally said
by strangers that their figures are unusually handsome. Do you think they are?"
Faraday agreed to this too. "The girls in the East," said Miss. Ryan, sitting
upright with a creaking sound, and drawing her gloves through one satin-smooth,
bejeweled hand, "are very thin, aren't they? Here, I sometimes think"--she
raised her eyes to his in deep and somewhat anxious query--"that they are too
fat?" Faraday gallantly scouted the idea. He said the California woman was a
goddess. For the first time in the interview Miss. Ryan gave a little laugh.
"That's what all you Eastern men say," she said. "They're always telling me I'm
a goddess. Even the Englishmen say that." "Well," answered Faraday, surprised at
his own boldness, "what they say is true." Miss. Ryan silently eyed him for a
speculating moment; then, averting her glance, said, pensively: "Perhaps so; but
I don't think it's so stylish to be a goddess as it is to be very slim. And
then, you know----" Here she suddenly broke off, her eyes fixed upon the crowd
of ladies that blocked an opposite doorway in exeunt. "There's mommer. I guess
she must be going home, and I suppose I'd better go too, and not keep her
waiting." She rose as she spoke, and with a pat of her hand adjusted her
glimmering skirts. "Oh, Mr. Faraday," she said, as she peered down at them, "I
hope you'll give yourself the pleasure of calling on me. I'm at home almost any
afternoon after five, and Tuesday is my day. Come whenever you please. I'll be
real glad to see you, and I guess popper'd like to talk to you about things in
the East. He's been in Massachusetts too." She held out her large white hand and
gave Faraday a vigorous hand-shake. "I'm glad I came here tonight," she said,
smiling. "I wasn't quite decided, but I thought I'd better, as I had some things
to tell Mrs. Peck for next Sunday's _Trumpet_. If I hadn't come, I wouldn't have
met you. You needn't escort me to Madame Delmonti. I'd rather go by myself. I'm
not a bit a ceremonious person. Good-by. Be sure and come and see me." She
rustled away, exchanged farewells with Madame Delmonti, and, by a movement of
her head in his direction, appeared to be speaking of Faraday; then joining a
fur-muffled female figure near the doorway, swept like a princess out of the
room. For a week after Faraday's meeting with Miss. Genevieve Ryan, he had no
time to think of giving himself the pleasure of calling upon that fair and
flattering young lady. The position which he had come out from Boston to fill
was not an unusually exacting one, but Faraday, who was troubled with a New
England conscience, and a certain slowness in adapting himself to new conditions
of life, was too engrossed in mastering the duties of his clerkship to think of
loitering about the chariot wheels of beauty. By the second week, however, he
had shaken down into the new rut, and a favorable opportunity presenting itself
in a sunny Sunday afternoon, he donned his black coat and high hat and repaired
to the mansion of Barney Ryan, on California Street. When Faraday approached the
house, he felt quite timid, so imposingly did this great structure loom up from
the simpler dwellings which surrounded it. Barney Ryan had built himself a
palace, and ever since the day he had first moved into it he had been anxious to
move out. The ladies of his family would not allow this, and so Barney endured
his grandeur as best he might. It was a great wooden house, with immense bay
windows thrown out on every side, and veiled within by long curtains of heavy
lace. The sweep of steps that spread so proudly from the portico was flanked by
two sleeping lions in stone, both appearing, by the savage expressions which
distorted their visages, to be suffering from terrifying dreams. In the garden
the spiked foliage of the dark, slender dracaenas and the fringed fans of giant
filamentosas grew luxuriantly with tropical effect. The large drawing-room,
long, and looking longer with its wide mirrors, was even more golden than Mrs.
Delmonti's. There were gold moldings about the mirrors and gold mountings to the
chairs. In deserts of gold frames appeared small oases of oil-painting. Faraday,
hat in hand, stood some time in wavering indecision, wondering in which of the
brocaded and gilded chairs he would look least like a king in an historical
play. He was about to decide in favor of a pale blue satin settee, when a rustle
behind him made him turn and behold Miss. Genevieve magnificent in a trailing
robe of the faintest rose-pink and pearls, with diamond ear-rings in her ears,
and the powder that she had hastily rubbed on her face still lying white on her
long lashes. She smiled her rare smile as she greeted him, and sitting down in
one of the golden chairs, leaned her head against the back, and said, looking at
him from under lowered lids:

"Well, I thought you were never coming!" Faraday, greatly encouraged by this
friendly reception, made his excuses, and set the conversation going. After the
weather had been exhausted, the topic of the Californian in his social aspect
came up. Faraday, with some timidity, ventured a question on the fashionable
life in San Francisco. A shade passed over Miss. Ryan's open countenance. "You
know, Mr. Faraday," she said, explanatorily, "I'm not exactly in society." "No?"
murmured Faraday, mightily surprised, and wondering what she was going to say
next. "Not exactly," continued Miss. Ryan, moistening her red under lip in a
pondering moment--"not exactly in fash'nable society. Of course we have our
friends. But gentlemen from the East that I've met have always been so surprised
when I told them that I didn't go out in the most fash'nable circles. They
always thought any one with money could get right in it here." "Yes?" said
Faraday, whose part of the conversation appeared to be deteriorating into
monosyllables. "Well, you know, that's not the case at all. With all popper's
money, we've never been able to get a real good footing. It seems funny to
outsiders, especially as popper and mommer have never been divorced or anything.
We've just lived quietly right here in the city always. But," she said, looking
tentatively at Faraday to see how he was going to take the statement, "my
father's a Northerner. He went back and fought in the war." "You must be very
proud of that," said Faraday, feeling that he could now hazard a remark with
safety. This simple comment, however, appeared to surprise the enigmatic Miss.
Ryan. "Proud of it?" she queried, looking in suspended doubt at Faraday. "Oh, of
course I'm proud that he was brave, and didn't run away or get wounded; but if
he'd been a Southerner we would have been in society now." She looked pensively
at Faraday. "All the fashionable people are Southerners, you know. We would have
been, too, if we'd have been Southerners. It's being Northerners that really has
been such a drawback." "But your sympathies," urged Faraday, "aren't they with
the North?" Miss. Ryan ran the pearl fringe of her tea-gown through her large,
handsome hands. "I guess so," she said, indifferently, as if she was considering
the subject for the first time; "but you can't expect me to have any very
violent sympathies about a war that was dead and buried before I was born." "I
don't believe you're a genuine Northerner, or Southerner either," said Faraday,
laughing. "I guess not," said the young lady, with the same placid indifference.
"An English gentleman whom I knew real well last year said the sympathy of the
English was all with the Southerners. He said they were the most refined people
in this country. He said they were thought a great deal of in England?" She
again looked at Faraday with her air of deprecating query, as if she half
expected him to contradict her. "Who was this extraordinarily enlightened
being?" asked Faraday. "Mr. Harold Courtney, an elegant Englishman. They said
his grandfather was a Lord--Lord Hastings--but you never can be sure about those
things. I saw quite a good deal of him, and I sort of liked him, but he was
rather quiet. I think if he'd been an American we would have thought him dull.
Here they just said it was reserve. We all thought----"

A footstep in the hall outside arrested her recital. The door of the room was
opened, and a handsome bonneted head appeared in the aperture. "Oh, Gen," said
this apparition, hastily--"excuse me; I didn't know you had your company in
there?" "Come in, mommer," said Miss. Ryan, politely; "I want to make you
acquainted with Mr. Faraday. He's the gentleman I met at Madame Delmonti's the
other evening." Mrs. Ryan, accompanied by a rich rustling of silk, pushed open
the door, revealing herself to Faraday's admiring eyes as a fine-looking woman,
fresh in tint, still young, of a stately figure and imposing presence. She was
admirably dressed in a walking costume of dark green, and wore a little black
jet bonnet on her slightly waved bright brown hair. She met the visitor with an
extended hand and a frank smile of open pleasure. "Genevieve spoke to me of you,
Mr. Faraday," she said, settling down into a chair and removing her gloves. "I'm
very glad you managed to get around here." Faraday expressed his joy at having
been able to accomplish the visit. "We don't have so many agreeable gentlemen
callers," said Mrs. Ryan, "that we can afford to overlook a new one. If you've
been in society, you've perhaps noticed, Mr. Faraday, that gentlemen are
somewhat scarce." Faraday said he had not been in society, therefore had not
observed the deficiency. Mrs. Ryan, barely allowing him time to complete his
sentence, continued, vivaciously:

"Well, Mr. Faraday, you'll see it later. We entertainers don't know what we are
going to do for the lack of gentlemen. When we give parties we ask the young
gentlemen, and they all come; but they won't dance, they won't talk, they won't
do anything but eat and drink and they never think of paying their party calls.
It's disgraceful, Mr. Faraday," said Mrs. Ryan, smiling brightly--"disgraceful!"
Faraday said he had heard that in the East the hostess made the same complaint.
Mrs. Ryan, with brilliant fixed eyes, gave him a breathing-space to reply in,
and then started off again, with a confirmatory nod of her head:

"Precisely, Mr. Faraday--just the case here. At Genevieve's debut party--an
elegant affair--Mrs. Peck said she'd never seen a finer entertainment in this
city--canvas floors, four musicians, champagne flowing like water. My husband,
Mr. Faraday believes in giving the best at his entertainments; there's not a
mean bone in Barney Ryan's body. Why, the men all got into the smoking-room, lit
their cigars, and smoked there, and in the ballroom were the girls sitting
around the walls, and not more than half a dozen partners for them. I tell you,
Mr. Ryan was mad. He just went up there, and told them to get up and dance or
get up and go home----he didn't much care which. There's no fooling with Mr.
Ryan when he's roused. You remember how mad popper was that night, Gen?" Miss.
Ryan nodded an assent, her eyes full of smiling reminiscence. She had listened
to her mother's story with unmoved attention and evident appreciation. "Next
time we have a party," she said, looking smilingly at Faraday, "Mr. Faraday can
come and see for himself." "I guess it'll be a long time before we have another
like that," said Mrs. Ryan, somewhat grimly, rising as Faraday rose to take his
leave. "Not but what," she added, hastily, fearing her remark had seemed
ungracious, "we'll hope Mr. Faraday will come without waiting for parties." "But
we've had one since then," said Miss. Ryan, as she placed her hand in his in the
pressure of farewell, "that laid all over that first one." Having been pressed
to call by both mother and daughter, and having told himself that Genevieve Ryan
was "an interesting study," Faraday, after some hesitation, paid a second visit
to the Ryan mansion. Upon this occasion the Chinese servant, murmuring
unintelligibly, showed a rooted aversion to his entering. Faraday, greatly at
sea, wondering vaguely if the terrible Barney Ryan had issued a mandate to his
hireling to refuse him admittance, was about to turn and depart, when the voice
of Mrs. Ryan in the hall beyond arrested him. Bidden to open the door, the
Mongolian reluctantly did so and Faraday was admitted. "Sing didn't want to let
you in," said Mrs. Ryan when they had gained the long gold drawing-room,
"because Genevieve was out. He never lets any gentlemen in when she's not at
home. He thinks I'm too old to have them come to see me." Then they sat down,
and after a little preliminary chat on the Chinese character and the Californian
climate, Mrs. Ryan launched forth into her favorite theme of discourse.
"Genevieve will be so sorry to miss you," she said; "she's always so taken by
Eastern gentlemen. They admire her, too, immensely. I can't tell you of the
compliments we've heard directly and indirectly that they've paid her. Of course
I can see that she's an unusually fine-looking girl, and very accomplished. Mr.
Ryan and I have spared nothing in her education--nothing. At Madame de Vivier's
academy for young ladies--one of the most select in the State--Madame's
husband's one of the French nobility, and she always had to support him--
Genevieve took every extra--music, languages, and drawing. Professor Rodriguez,
who taught her the guitar, said that never outside of Spain had he heard such a
touch. 'Senora,' he says to me--that's his way of expressing himself, and it
sounds real cute the way he says it--'Senora, is there not some Spanish blood in
this child? No one without Spanish blood could touch the strings that way.'
Afterwards when Demaroni taught her the mandolin, it was just the same. He could
not believe she had not had teaching before. Then Madame Mezzenott gave her a
term's lessons on the bandurria, and she said there never was such talent; she
might have made a fortune on the concert stage." "Yes, undoubtedly," Faraday
squeezed in, as Mrs. Ryan drew a breath. "Indeed, Mr. Faraday, everybody has
remarked her talents. It isn't you alone. All the Eastern gentlemen we have met
have said that the musical talents of the Californian young ladies were
astonishing They all agree that Genevieve's musical genius is remarkable.
Everybody declares that there is no one--not among the Spaniards themselves--who
sings _La Paloma_ as Gen does. Professor Spighetti instructed her in that. He
was a wonderful teacher. I never saw such a method. But we had to give him up
because he fell in love with Gen. That's the worst of it--the teachers are
always falling in love with her; and with her prospects and position we
naturally expect something better. Of course it's been very hard to keep her. I
say to Mr. Ryan, as each winter comes to an end, 'Well, popper, another season's
over and we've still got our Gen.' We feel that we can't be selfish and hope to
keep her always, and, with so many admirers, we realize that we must soon lose
her, and try to get accustomed to the idea." "Of course, of course," murmured
Faraday, sympathetically, mentally picturing Mrs. Ryan keeping away the suitors
as Rizpah kept the eagles and vultures off her dead sons. "There was a Mr.
Courtney who was very attentive last year. His grandfather was an English lord.
We had to buy a _Peerage_ to find out if he was genuine, and, as he was, we had
him quite often to the house. He paid Genevieve a good deal of attention, but
toward the end of the season he said he had to go back to England and see his
grandfather--his father was dead--and left without saying anything definite. He
told me though, that he was coming back. I fully expect he will, though Mr. Ryan
doesn't seem to think so. Genevieve felt rather put out about it for a time. She
thought he hadn't been upright to see her so constantly and not say anything
definite. But she doesn't understand the subserviency of Englishmen to their
elders. You know, we have none of that in this country. If my son Eddie wanted
to marry a typewriter, Mr. Ryan could never prevent it. I fully expect to see
Mr. Courtney again. I'd like you to meet him, Mr. Faraday. I think you'd agree
very well. He's just such a quiet, reserved young man as you." When, after this
interview, Faraday descended the broad steps between the sleeping lions, he did
not feel so good-tempered as he had done after his first visit. He recalled to
mind having heard that Mrs. Ryan, before her marriage, had been a schoolteacher,
and he said to himself that if she had no more sense then than she had now, her
pupils must have received a fearful and wonderful education. At Madame
Delmonti's _conversazione_, given a few evenings later, Faraday again saw Miss.
Ryan. On the first of these occasions this independent young lady was dressed
simply in a high-necked gown and a hat. This evening with her habitual disregard
of custom and convention, some whim had caused her to array herself in full gala
attire, and, habited in a gorgeous costume of white silk and yellow velvet, with
a glimmer of diamonds round the low neck, she was startling in her large
magnificence. Jack Faraday approached her somewhat awe-stricken, but her gravely
boyish manner immediately put him at his ease. Talking with her over
commonplaces, he wondered what she would say if she knew of her mother's
conversation with him. As if in answer to the unspoken thought, she suddenly
said fixing him with intent eyes:

"Mommer said she told you of Mr. Courtney. Do you think he'll come back?"
Faraday, his breath taken away by the suddenness of the attack, felt the blood
run to his hair, and stammered a reply. "Well, you know," she said, leaning
toward him confidentially, "I _don't_. Mommer is possessed with the idea that he
will. But neither popper nor I think so. I got sort of annoyed with the way he
acted--hanging about for a whole winter, and then running away to see his
grandfather, like a little boy ten years old! I like men that are their own
masters. But I suppose I would have married him. You see, he would have been a
lord when his grandfather died. It was genuine--we saw it in the _Peerage_." She
looked into Faraday's eyes. Her own were as clear and deep as mountain springs.
Was Miss. Genevieve Ryan the most absolutely honest and outspoken young woman
that had ever lived, or was she some subtle and unusual form of Pacific Slope
coquette? "Popper was quite mad about it," she continued. "He thought Mr.
Courtney was an ordinary sort of person, anyway. I didn't. I just thought him
dull, and I suppose he couldn't help that. Mommer wanted to go over to England
last summer. She thought we might stumble on him over there. But popper wouldn't
let her do it. He sent us to Alaska instead." She paused, and gave a smiling bow
to an acquaintance. "Doesn't Mrs. Peck look sweet tonight?" She designated the
society editress of the _Morning Trumpet_, whose fragile figure was encased in a
pale blue Empire costume. "And that lady over by the door, with the gold crown
in her hair, the stout one in red, is Mrs. Wheatley, a professional Delsarte
teacher. She's a great friend of mine and gives me Delsarte twice a week." And
Miss. Genevieve Ryan nodded to the dispenser of "Delsarte," a large and florid
woman, who, taking her stand under a spreading palm tree, began to declaim "The
Portrait" of Owen Meredith, and in the recital of the dead lady's iniquitous
conduct the conversation was brought to a close. From its auspicious opening,
Faraday's acquaintance with the Ryans ripened and developed with a speed which
characterizes the growth of friendship and of fruit in the genial Californian
atmosphere. Almost before he felt that he had emerged from the position of a
stranger he had slipped into that of an intimate. He fell into the habit of
visiting the Ryan mansion on California Street on Sunday afternoons. It became a
custom for him to dine there _en famille_ at least once a week. The simplicity
and light-hearted good-nature of these open-handed and kindly people touched and
charmed him. There was not a trace of the snob in Faraday. He accepted the
lavish and careless hospitality of Barney Ryan's "palatial residence," as the
newspapers delighted to call it, with a spirit as frankly pleased as that in
which it was offered. He came of an older civilization than that which had given
Barney Ryan's daughter her frankness and her force, and it did not cross his
mind that the heiress of millions might cast tender eyes upon the penniless sons
of New England farmers. He said to himself with impatient recklessness that he
ought not to and would not fall in love with her. There was too great a distance
between them. It would be King Cophetua and the beggar-maid reversed. Clerks at
one hundred and fifty dollars a month were not supposed to aspire to only
daughters of bonanza kings in the circle from which Faraday had come. So he
visited the Ryans, assuring himself that he was a friend of the family, who
would dance at Miss Genevieve's wedding with the lightest of hearts. The Chinese
butler had grown familiar with Faraday's attractive countenance and his
unabbreviated English, when late one warm and sunny afternoon the young man
pulled the bell of the great oaken door of the Ryans' lion-guarded home. In
answer to his queries for the ladies, he learned that they were out; but the
Mongolian functionary, after surveying him charily through the crack of the
door, admitted that Mr. Ryan was within, and conducted the visitor into his
presence. Barney Ryan, suffering from a slight sprain in his ankle, sat at ease
in a little sitting-room in the back of the house. Mr. Ryan, being irritable and
in some pain, the women-folk had relaxed the severity of their dominion, and
allowed him to sit unchecked in his favorite costume for the home circle--shirt
sleeves and a tall beaver hat. Beside him on the table stood bare and
undecorated array of bottles, a glass, and a silver water-pitcher. Mr. Ryan was
now some years beyond sixty, but had that tremendous vigor of frame and
constitution that distinguished the pioneers--an attribute strangely lacking in
their puny and degenerate sons. This short and chunky old man, with his round,
thick head, bristling hair and beard, and huge red neck, had still a fiber as
tough as oak. He looked coarse, uncouth, and stupid, but in his small gray eyes
shone the alert and unconquerable spirit which marked the pioneers as the giants
of the West, and which had carried him forward over every obstacle to the summit
of his ambitions. Barney Ryan was restless in his confinement; for, despite his
age and the completeness of his success, his life was still with the world of
men where the bull-necked old miner was a king. At home the women rather
domineered over him, and unconsciously made him feel his social deficiencies. At
home, too, the sorrow and the pride of his life were always before him--his son,
a weak and dissipated boy; and his daughter, who had inherited his vigor and his
spirit with a beauty that had descended to her from some forgotten peasant girl
of the Irish bogs. Faraday, with his power of listening interminably, and his
intelligent comments, was a favorite of old Ryan's. He greeted him with a
growling welcome; and then, civilities being interchanged, called to the
Chinaman for another glass. This menial, rubbing off the long mirrors that
decorated the walls, would not obey the mandate till it had been roared at him
by the wounded lion in a tone which made the chandelier rattle. "I never can
make those infernal idiots understand me," said old Ryan, plaintively. "They
won't do a thing I tell them. It takes the old lady to manage 'em. She makes
them skip." Then after some minutes of discourse on more or less uninteresting
matters, the weary old man, glad of a listener, launched forth into domestic
topics. "Gen and the old lady are out buying new togs. I got a letter here
that'll astonish them when they get back. It's from that English cuss, Courtney.
D'ye ever hear about him? He was hanging about Genevieve all last winter. And
this letter says he's coming back, that his grandfather's dead, and he's a lord
now, and he's coming back. Do you mind that now, Faraday?" he said, looking with
eyes full of humor at the young man. Faraday expressed a sharp surprise. "You
know, Jack," continued the old man, "we're trained up to having these high-
priced Englishmen come out here and eat our dinners, and sleep in our spare
rooms, and drink our wines and go home, and when they meet us there forget
they've ever seen us before; but we ain't trained up to havin' 'em come back
this way, and it's hard to get accustomed to it." "It's not surprising," said
Faraday, coldly. "I'm not so dead sure of that. But I can tell you the old
lady'll be wild about this." "Does Mrs. Ryan like him so much?" said the
visitor, still coldly. "All women like a lord, and Mrs. Ryan ain't different
from the rest of her sex. She's dead stuck on Gen marrying him. I'm not myself,
Jack. I'm no Anglomaniac; an American's good enough for me. I'm not spoiling to
see my money going to patch up the roof of the ancestral castle of the
Courtneys, or pay their ancestral debts--not by a long chalk." "Do you think
he's coming back to borrow money from you to pay off the ancestral debts?" asked
Faraday. "Not to borrow, Jack. Oh no, not to borrow--to get it for keeps--it,
and Genevieve with it. And I don't just see how I'm to prevent it. Gen don't
seem to care much, but the old lady's got it on her mind that she'd like to have
a lord in the family, no matter how high they come; and she can work on Gen.
Last summer she wanted to go after him--wanted to track him to his lair; but I
thought she might's well stop there, and put m' foot down. Gen don't seem to
care about him one way or the other, but then 'Lady Genevieve' sounds pretty
nice----"

Here a rustle of millinery, approaching through the drawing-room beyond, cut
short old Ryan's confidences. Faraday stood up to receive the ladies, who
entered jubilant and unwearied from an afternoon's shopping. Genevieve, a
magnificent princess, with the air of fashion given by perfectly setting
clothes, much brown fur and velvet, a touch of yellow lace, and a quantity of
fresh violets pinned to her corsage, looked as if she would make a very fine
Lady Genevieve. As soon as she heard the news she demanded the letter, and
perused it intently, Faraday covertly watching her. Raising her eyes, she met
his and said, with a little mocking air, "Well, Mr. Faraday, and what do you
think of that?" "That your mother seems to have been right," said Faraday,
steadily eyeing her. An expression of chagrin and disappointment, rapid but
unmistakable, crossed her face, dimming its radiance like a breath on a mirror.
She gave a little toss to her head, and turning away toward an adjacent looking-
glass, took off her veil and settled her hat. Mrs. Ryan watched her with glowing
pride already seeing her in fancy a member of the British aristocracy; but old
Ryan looked rather downcast, as he generally did when confronted by the
triumphant gorgeousness of the feminine members of his household. Faraday, too,
experienced a sudden depression of spirits so violent and so uncalled for that
if he had had room for any other feeling he would have been intensely surprised.
Barney Ryan, at the prospect of having to repair the breaches in the Courtney
exchequer and ancestral roof-tree, may have experienced a pardonable dejection.
But why should Faraday, who assured himself a dozen times a day that he merely
admired Miss. Genevieve, as any man might admire a charming and handsome girl,
feel so desperate a despondency? To prove to himself that his gloom did not rise
from the cause that he knew it did rise from, Faraday continued to be a constant
guest at the Ryan mansion, continued to see Miss. Genevieve at Madame Delmonti's
and at the other small social gatherings, where the presentable young New
Englander found himself quite a lion. When Mrs. Ryan saw him alone she flattered
his superior intelligence and experience of the world by asking his opinion of
the approaching Lord Hastings's matrimonial plans. This frank and outspoken lady
was on the thorns of uncertainty, Lord Hastings's flight on his former visit
having shaken her faith in him. Quite unconsciously she impressed upon Faraday
how completely both she and Genevieve had come to trust him as a tried friend.
With the exaltation of a knight of old, Faraday felt that their trust would
never be misplaced. He answered Mrs. Ryan's anxious queries with all the honesty
of the calmest friendship. Alone in the great gold drawing-room, he talked to
Genevieve on books, on music, on fashion, on society--on all subjects but that
of love. And all the while he felt like the nightingale who sings its sweetest
music while pressing its breast against a thorn. Lord Hastings seemed to have
lost no time in repairing to the side of the fair lady who was supposed to be
the object of his fondest devotions, and whom destiny appeared to have selected
as the renovator of Courtney Manor. Four weeks from the day Faraday had heard of
his intended visit, the Bostonian received a letter from Mrs. Ryan bidding him
to dinner to meet the illustrious guest. It seemed to Faraday that to go to see
the newcomer in converse with Genevieve, beautiful in her costliest robes, to
view the approving smiles of Mrs. Ryan, and perhaps the happy blushes of Miss.
Ryan, was the manly upright course for one who could never be more than the
avowed friend and silent worshipper of Barney Ryan's only daughter. Arriving ten
minutes late, he found the party already at the table. It was an inflexible rule
of Barney Ryan's to sit down to dinner at the stroke of half-past six, whether
his guests were assembled or not--a rule which even his wife's cajoleries and
commands were powerless to combat. Tonight the iron old man might well regard
with pride the luxury and splendor that crowned a turbulent career begun in
nipping poverty. The round table, glowing beneath the lights of the long crystal
chandeliers, sparkled with cut-glass, and shone with antique silverware, while
in the center a mass of pale purple orchids spread their fragile crepe-like
petals from a fringe of fern. Opposite him, still unfaded, superbly dressed, and
admirably self-possessed, was his smiling consort, toward whom, whatever his
pride in her might have been, his feelings this evening were somewhat hostile,
as the ambitious and determined lady had forced him to don regulation evening
dress, arrayed in which Barney's peace of mind and body both fled. On either
side of the table sat his son and daughter, the latter handsomer than Faraday
had ever seen her, her heavy dress of ivory-tinted silk no whiter than her neck,
a diamond aigret trembling like spray in her hair. Her brother Eddie, a year and
a half her senior, looked as if none of the blood of this vigorous strong-
thewed, sturdy stock could run in his veins. He was a pale and sickly looking
lad, with a weak, vulgar face, thin hair and red eyelids. Faraday had only seen
him once or twice before, and judged from remarks made to him by acquaintances
of the family that Eddie did not often honor the parental roof with his
presence. Eddie's irregular career appeared to be the one subject on which the
family maintained an immovable and melancholy reserve. The disappointment in his
only son was the bitter drop in Barney Ryan's cup. There were other guests at
the table. Faraday received a coy bow from Mrs. Peck, who had given her hair an
extra bleaching for this occasion, till her pinched and powdered little face
looked out from under an orange-colored thatch; Mrs. Wheatley was there too,
with a suggestion of large white shoulders shining through veilings of black
gauze; and with an air of stately pride, Mrs. Ryan presented him to Lord
Hastings. This young man, sitting next Genevieve, was a tall, fair, straight-
featured Englishman of gravely unresponsive manners. In the severe perfection of
his immaculate evening dress he looked a handsome, well-bred young fellow of
twenty-five or six. As the late guest dropped into his seat, the interrupted
conversation regathered and flowed again. Barney Ryan said nothing. He never
spoke while eating, and rarely talked when women were present. Genevieve too was
quiet, responding with a gently absent smile, when her cavalier, turning upon
her his cold and expressionless steely-blue eyes, addressed to her some short
regulation remark on the weather, or the boredom of his journey across the
plains. The phlegmatic calm of his demeanor remained intact even under the
coquettish onslaughts of Mrs. Peck and Mrs. Wheatley, who extracted from him
with wheedling perseverance his opinions on the State, the climate, and the
country. Lord Hastings replied with iron-bound and unsmiling brevity, his wide
cold glance resting with motionless attention upon the painted physiognomy of
Mrs. Peck and the broad and buxom one of Mrs. Wheatley, and his head turning
with dignified difficulty in his exceedingly high and tight collar, as one and
the other assailed him with queries. Meanwhile the object of his journey, slowly
moving her great fan of white ostrich feathers, looked across the table at
Faraday and made a little surreptitious _moue_. The conversation soon became
absorbed by the two married ladies, Faraday, and Lord Hastings. Only the Ryans
were silent, Genevieve now and then throwing a lazy sentence into the vortex of
talk, and Mrs. Ryan being occupied in lending a proud ear to the coruscations of
wit that sparkled around the board, or in making covert gestures to the soft-
footed Mongols, who moved with deft noiselessness about the table. Eddie Ryan,
like his father, rarely spoke in society. In the glare of the chandelier he sat
like a strange uncomfortable guest, taking no notice of any one. Toward the end
of the feast he conversed in urgent whispers with his mother--a conversation
which ended in her surreptitiously giving him her keys under the edge of the
table. Before coffee, Eddie left, on the plea of an important engagement,
retiring through the drawing-room, softly jingling the keys. After this dinner,
when Lord Hastings's presence had banished all his doubts, when the young
Englishman's attractive appearance had impressed itself upon his jealous eye,
and Genevieve's gentle indifference had seemed to him but a modest form of
encouragement. Faraday found but little time to pay visits to the hospitable
home of Barney Ryan. The family friend that they had all so warmly welcomed and
taken to their hearts withdrew himself quietly but firmly from their cheerful
circle. When, at rare intervals, he did drop in upon them, he pleaded important
business engagements as the reason of his inability to accept their numerous
invitations to dinners and theater parties. After these mendacious statements he
would wend a gloomy way homeward to his Pine Street boarding-house, and there
spend the evening pretending to read, and cursing the fate which had ever
brought him within the light of Genevieve's _beaux yeux_. The fable of being the
family friend was quite shattered. Faraday had capitulated. Nearly two months
after the dinner, when rumors of Genevieve Ryan's engagement to Lord Hastings
were in lively circulation, Faraday called at the lion-guarded mansion on
California Street, and, in answering to his regulation request for the ladies,
received the usual unintelligible Chinese rejoinder, and was shown into the gold
drawing-room. There, standing in front of a long mirror, looking at her skirts
with an eye of pondering criticism, was Miss Genevieve, dressed to go out. She
caught sight of him in the glass, turned abruptly, and came forward, a color in
her face. "Is that you?" she said, holding out her hand. "I am so glad. I
thought it was somebody else." Having thus, with her customary candor, signified
to Faraday that she was expecting Lord Hastings, she sat down facing him, and
said, abruptly, "Why haven't you been here for so long?" Faraday made the usual
excuses, and did quail before her cold and steady eyes. "That's rather funny,"
she said, as he concluded "for now you're used to your new position, and it must
go more easily, and yet you have less time to see your friends than you did at
first." Faraday made more excuses, and wondered that she should take a cruel
pleasure in such small teasing. "I thought p'r'aps," she said, still regarding
him with an unflinching scrutiny, her face grave and almost hard, "that you'd
begun to find us too Western, that the novelty had worn off, that our ways were
too--too--what shall I say?--too wild and woolly." A flush of anger ran over
Faraday's face. "Your suppositions were neither just nor true," he said, coldly.
"Oh, I don't know," she continued, with a careless movement of her head, and
speaking in the high, indifferent tone that a woman adopts when she wishes to be
exasperating; "you needn't get mad. Lots of Eastern people feel that way. They
come out here and see us constantly, and make friends with us, and then go back
and laugh at us, and tell their friends what barbarians we are. It's customary,
and nothing to be ashamed of." "Do you suppose that I am that sort of an Eastern
person?" asked Faraday, quietly. "I don't know," she said, doubtfully. "I didn't
think you were at first, but now----"

"But now you do. Why?" "Because you don't come here any more," she said, with a
little air of triumph. "You're tired of us. The novelty is over and so are the
visits." Faraday arose, too bitterly annoyed for speech. Genevieve, rising too,
and touching her skirts with arranging hand, continued, apparently unconscious
of the storm she was rousing:

"And yet it seems odd that you should find such a difference. Lord Hastings,
now, who's English, and much more conventional, thinks the people here just as
refined and particular as any other Americans." "It's evident," said Faraday, in
a voice roughened with anger, "that Lord Hastings's appreciation of the
refinement of the Americans is only equaled by your admiration for the talents
of the English." "I do like them," said Genevieve, dubiously, shaking her head,
as if she was admitting a not entirely creditable taste, and looking away from
him. There was a moment's silence. Faraday fastened his eyes upon her in a look
of passionate confession that in its powerful pleading drew her own back to his.
"You're as honest as you are cruel," he said, almost in a whisper. She made no
reply, but turned her head sharply away, as if in sudden embarrassment. Then, in
answer to his conventionally murmured good-byes, she looked back, and he saw her
face radiant, alight, with the most beautiful smile trembling on the lips. The
splendor of this look seemed to him a mute expression of her happiness--of love
reciprocated, ambition realized--and in it he read his own doom. He turned
blindly round to pick up his hat; the door behind him was opened, and there,
handsome, debonair, fresh as a May morning, stood Lord Hastings, hat in hand. "I
hope you're not vexed, Miss. Ryan," said this young man, "but I'm very much
afraid I'm just a bit late." After this Faraday thought it quite unnecessary to
visit Barney Ryan's "palatial mansion" for some time. Genevieve's engagement
would soon be announced, and then he would have to go and offer his
congratulations. As to whether he would dance at her wedding with a light heart
--that was another matter. He assured himself that she was making a splendid and
eminently suitable marriage. With her beauty and money and true simple heart she
would deck the fine position which the Englishman could give her. He wished her
every happiness, but that he should stand by and watch the progress of the
courtship seemed to him an unnecessary twisting of the knife in the wound. Even
the endurance of New England human nature has its limits, and Faraday could
stand no more. So he refused an invitation to a tea from Mrs. Ryan, and one to a
dinner and another to a small musical from Miss. Ryan, and alone in his Pine
Street lodgings, for the first time in his life, read the "social columns" with
a throbbing heart. One Saturday afternoon, two weeks from the day that he had
last seen Genevieve, he sat in his room trying to read. He had left the office
early, and though it was still some hours before dark, a heavy unremitting rain
had enveloped the afternoon in a premature twilight. The perpetual run of water
from a break in the gutter near his window sounded drearily through the
depressing history of the woes and disappointments of David Grieve. The gloom of
the book and the afternoon was settling upon Faraday with the creeping
stealthiness of a chill, when a knock sounded upon his door, and one of the
servants without acquainted him with the surprising piece of intelligence that a
lady was waiting to see him in the sitting-room below. As he entered the room,
dim with the heavy somberness of the leaden atmosphere, he saw his visitor
standing looking out of the window--a tall, broad-shouldered, small-waisted
striking figure, with a neat black turban crowning her closely braided hair. At
his step she turned, and revealed the gravely handsome face of Genevieve Ryan.
He made no attempt to take her hand, but murmured a regulation sentence of
greeting; then, looking into her eyes, saw for the first time that handsome face
marked with strong emotion. Miss. Ryan was shaken from her phlegmatic calm; her
hand trembled on the back of the chair before her; the little knot of violets in
her dress vibrated to the beating of her heart. "This is not a very conventional
thing to do," she said, with her usual ignoring of all preamble, "but I can't
help that. I had something to talk to you about, Mr. Faraday, and as you would
not come to see me, I had to come to see you." "What is it that you wanted to
see me about?" asked Faraday, standing motionless, and feeling in the sense of
oppression and embarrassment that seemed to weigh upon them both the premonition
of an approaching crisis. She made no answer for a moment, but stood looking
down, as if in an effort to choose her words or collect her thoughts, the
violets in her dress rising and falling with her quickened breathing. "It's
rather hard to know how to say--anything," she said at length. "If I can do
anything for you," said the young man, "you know it would always be a happiness
to me to serve you." "Oh, it's not a message or a favor," she said, hastily. "I
only wanted to say something"--she paused in great embarrassment--"but it's even
more queer more unusual, than my coming here." Faraday made no response, and for
a space both were silent. Then she said, speaking with a peculiar low
distinctness:

"The last time I saw you I seemed very disagreeable. I wanted to make sure of
something. I wanted to make sure that you were fond of me--to surprise it out of
you. Well--I did it. You are fond of me. I made you show it to me." She raised
her eyes, brilliant and dark, and looked into his. "If you were to swear to me
now that I was wrong I would know you were not telling the truth," she said,
with proud defiance. "You love me." "Yes," said Faraday, slowly, "I do. What
then?" "What then?" she repeated. "Why do you go away--go away from me?"
"Because," he answered, "I am too much of a man to live within sight of the
woman I love and can never hope for." "Can never hope for?" she exclaimed,
aghast. "Are you--are you married?" The sudden horror on her face was a strange
thing for Faraday to see. "No," he said, "I am not married." "Then, did she tell
you that you never could hope for her?" said Miss. Genevieve Ryan, in a
tremulous voice. "No. It was not necessary. I knew myself." "You did yourself a
wrong, and her too," she broke out, passionately. "You should have told her, and
given her a chance to say--to say what she has a right to say, without making
her come to you, with her love in her hand, to offer it to you as if she was
afraid you were going to throw it back in her face. It's bad enough being a
woman anyway, but to have the feelings of a woman, and then have to say a thing
like this--it's--it's--ghastly." "Genevieve!" breathed Faraday. "Why don't you
understand?" she continued, desperately. "You won't see it. You make me come
here and tell it to you this way. I may be badly mannered and unconventional,
but I have feelings and pride like other women. But what else could I do?" Her
voice suddenly broke into soft appeal, and she held out her hands toward him
with a gesture as spontaneous in its pleading tenderness as though made by a
child. Faraday was human. He dashed away the chair that stood between them and
clasped the trembling hands in his. "Why is it," she asked, looking into his
face with shining troubled eyes--"why is it you acted this way? Was it Lord
Hastings? I refused him two weeks ago. I thought I'd marry him once, but that
was before I knew you. Then I waited for you, and you didn't come, and I wrote
to you, and you wouldn't come. And so I had to come and tell you myself, and
it's been something dreadful." Faraday made no response, but feeling the smooth
hands curled warm inside his, he stood listening to those soft accents that
issued with the sweetness that love alone lends to women's voices from lips he
had thought as far beyond his reach as the key of the rainbow. "Do you think it
was awful for me to do it?" she queried, in whispering anxiety. He shook his
head. "Well," she said, laughing a little and turning her head half away, as her
former embarrassment began to reassert itself over her subsiding nervousness,
"I've often wished I was a man, but if it's always as awful as that to propose
to a person, I'm quite content to be a woman." GIDEON'S KNOCK

BY

MARY HALLECK FOOTE

Written for THE SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION

_All Rights Reserved_

BY A curious coincidence, whenever George Fleming was translated to a wider
berth, it was my luck to succeed him in the job he had just quitted. This had
happened more than once, in the chances and changes that befall the younger men
in the mining profession, before we began to jolly each other about it--always
at long range. When I heard he had resigned from the Consolidated Resumption, to
everybody's surprise, at a time of great prosperity to the mine, I hailed my
chance and congratulated myself that I should speedily be asked to fill his
place: and I was! I wrote him on the spot a playful letter, alluding to my long,
stern chase and begging him to hold on this time till I could shake him by the
hand; I had come to have a personal sentiment toward him apart from the natural
desire to meet face to face the author of my continued advancement. But to this
letter I received no word of reply. His silence haunted me, rather--I thought
about him a good deal while I was closing up my affairs in other directions
before taking over the Consolidated Resumption. Meanwhile the company's cashier,
Joshua Dean, a man of trust but small initiative, was filling the interregnum. I
found him living alone in the manager's house with the Flemings' Chinese cook as
man of all work. The Resumption has never tolerated a boarding-house or a
village or compound within sight of its official windows. Its first manager was
a son of the chief owner, who built his house in the style of a gentleman's
country-seat, small but exclusive and quite apart from the work. I liked the
somber seclusion of the place, planted deep with trees of about twenty years'
growth, showing their delicate, changing greens against the darker belt of
pines. But its aspect increased, if anything, that uneasy sensation, like a cold
wind in my back, which I still had in thinking of Fleming. I had driven out to
dine with Dean on the evening of my arrival. It was the last week in January;
there had been much rain already for the foot-hills. Wet sprays from the
untrimmed rose hedges disputed my passage through the inner gate. Discolored
pine-needles lay in sodden drifts on the neglected grass. The hydrant leaked
frozen puddles down the brick-paved walk. Mounting the veranda steps I laid my
hand on the knocker, when an old Chinese servant popped his head out at a side-
door and violently beckoned me in that way. Dean, as I knew, had made his home
with the Flemings for some time before their departure. After a few talks with
him and a survey of the house I decided we might venture to continue the
arrangement without getting in each other's way. It was a house peculiarly
adapted to a _solitude a deux_. There was no telephone nearer than the office. I
argued that Fleming was a man who could protect himself from frivolous
intrusions, and his wife could have had but little in common with her neighbors
in the village. He had resigned on account of her health, I was told. It must
have been a hasty flitting or an inconclusive one. The odd, attractive rooms
were full of their belongings still. We two casual bachelors with our
circumspect habits could make no impression on the all but speaking silence of
those empty rooms. They filled me at times with a curious emotion of sadness and
unrest. Joshua seldom talked of the Flemings, though I knew he received letters
from them. That he was deeply attached to their memory, hoarded it and brooded
over it, I could not doubt. I even suspected some jealous sentiment on his part
which made it hard for him to see me using their chairs, planting myself amongst
their cushions and investigating their book-shelves. I thought it strange they
had left so many things behind them of a personal nature. They seemed to have
ceased to care for what most of us rolling stones are wont to cling to. Their
departure had something unspeakable in it--akin to sudden death, or a sickness
of the heart that made life indifferent to them. "They must have loved this
room!" I said to him one evening. It was during the black rains of February--
Dean and I with our chairs to the fire, waiting for the Eastern mail. The night
watchman's orders were to stop for it if the trains were anywhere near on time.
At this storm season the Westbound was frequently behind and the road to town a
quagmire. We never looked for Fahey--he was the man I found there as night
watchman--before eight o'clock. It had rained and snowed off and on since the
month began. In the dark, low rooms the fire burned all day. The dining-room,
which had blue-green walls in imitation of Flemish tapestry and weathered-oak
furniture, was darkened still more by the pines that gave a cloistered look to
the view from our back windows into a small, square court, high-walled and
spread with pine-needles. The rooms we used were two small ones united, done in
white and yellow and with slim curtains which we could crush back upon the rods;
but even there one could not see to read by daylight. This continuous, arctic
gloom added, no doubt, to the melancholy spell of the house, which nevertheless
charmed me, and held me almost with a sense of impalpable presences sharing with
Joshua and me our intimate, wistful seclusion. If I was happy, in a luxuriously
mournful sort of way, I knew that he was not--that he grieved persistently over
something that cast a greyness over his thoughts in keeping with the atmosphere.
I knew that he knew without any names whom I meant whenever I spoke of _they_.
"Yes, they loved it," he said, answering my exclamation. "They made it, somehow,
as character is said to shape its own set of features." "Had they lived here
long?" "For a mine house, yes. It was, of course, a home. They had no other." "A
happy one?" I ventured. "Can any one be called happy who has the gift of strong
feeling, and two children at stake, in this world?" I had never heard him speak
with such bitterness. "But to have any one to feel for--that is life," I said.
"I wish I had more of it myself." "Life, then, is not happiness." I left him the
last word, and sitting so, both silent, we heard a screen-door at the kitchen-
end blow to with a bang and a clatter of tinware that sent the blood to my face
in wrath. I said something--about Jim and his fly-doors (Jim believed that flies
or their ghosts besieged that house all winter)--when the old heathen himself
came boiling into the room like a whole United States mail service delayed.
"Hoo! Heap bad ou'si'! Heap snow!" he panted, wiping drops from the lock of the
mail-pouch with his apron. My wrath increased, because once more Fahey had got
past the front door with the mail, whereas each night I had promised myself to
waylay him and change his roundabout method of delivery. "If I live till
tomorrow," I said crossly, "I'll see if he can't climb those steps and hand us
the bag himself." Jim stood listening. "We might be at dinner," Joshua
suggested. "What's the matter with knocking?--what is the knocker for?" It
struck me, as I spoke, that I had not heard the sound of the knocker since the
day Jim stayed my own hand and shunted me in at the side; it seemed he must have
practised the same vigilance with subsequent comers, for I could not recall one
person who had entered the house announced by the brass lion's head on the door.
"_He_ no lock!" Jim planted himself in front of me; his voice quavered
nervously. "All time I _un_-lock! Fi' 'tlock whistle blow--I go quick! Nobody
wait. I all time run." "Why should you run? What is the knocker for?" I
repeated. At this I stepped past him startling him somewhat, and hurled open the
front door. I had heard our coy watchman going down the path. "Tomorrow night,
Fahey," I shouted, "you bring the bag in this way. Knock, man! There's the
knocker--see?" Jim looked at me with eyes aghast. He gathered himself for
speech, breathing deeply. "Mis' Oth' (my name is Othet), I tell you: Long time-
_long_ time, no man knock flon' do'. In this house, no good. No good knock.
Sometime some-come-you no man see!" He lowered his voice to a rapid whisper,
spreading his yellow palms tremulously. "You tell man come knock flon' do'--I go
'way. Too much bad thing!" Muttering to himself he retreated. "Now what has he
got on his mind do you suppose? Could you make out what he was driving at?" Dean
smiled, a non-committal smile. "It would be rather awkward for us, wouldn't it,
if Jim should leave? We are too far from the coast for city servants in winter.
I doubt if any of the natives could be persuaded to stay in this house alone."
"You think Jim would leave if I made Fahey knock at that door every night?"
Joshua answered me obliquely. "If I could ever quote anything straight, I would
remind you of a saying in one of George Eliot's novels that 'we've all got to
take a little trouble to keep sane and call things by the same names as other
people.' Perhaps Jim doesn't take quite trouble enough. I have difficulty
sometimes myself to find names for things. I should like to hear you classify a
certain occurrence I have in mind, not unconnected, I think, with Jim's behavior
tonight. I've never discussed it, of course. In fact, I've never spoken of it
before." He smiled queerly. "It's very astonishing how they know things." "The
menials?" He nodded. "Jim was in the house at the time. No one knows that he
heard it,--no one ever told him. But he is thinking of it tonight just as I am.
He's never forgotten it for a moment, and never will." Joshua dragged the
charred logs forward and stooped amid their sparks to lay a fresh one with its
back to the chimney. Then he rose and looked out; as he stood in the door, I
could hear the hissing of fine snow turning to rain and the drenched bamboo
whipping the piazza posts; over all, the larger lament of the pines, and, from
the long rows of lights in the gulch, the diapason of the stamp-heads thundering
on through the night. "'Identities of sensation,'" said Joshua, quoting again as
he shut the door, "are strong with persons who live in lonely places! Jim and I
have lived here too long." "Well, I hope you won't live here another moment till
you have told me that story," I urged, and we drew again to the fire. "There was
a watchman here before Fahey," he began, "an old plainsman, with a Bible name,
Gideon. He looked like the pictures of old Ossawattamie Brown, and he had for
the Flemings a most unusual regard. It was as strong as his love for his family.
It was because of what Fleming did for his son, young Gid, when they caught him
stealing specimens with a gang of old offenders. Gid was nineteen, and a pretty
good boy, we thought. Such things happen between men of the right sort every
day, I suppose,--Fleming would say so. But it was his opportunity to do it for a
man who could feel and remember, and he made a friend for life right there. It
is too long a story to tell, but young Gid's all right--working in the city,
married and happy,--trusted like any other man. It wasn't in the blood, you see.
"Before his boy got into trouble, Fleming used to call the old man 'Gideon,'
talked to him any old way; but after his pride fell down it was always 'Mr.
Gideon,' and a few words when he brought the mail, about the weather or the
conduct of the trains. The old man appeared to stand taller in those moments at
the door, when he brought to the house the very food of its existence. They
lived upon their letters, for both the children were away. The army boy in the
Philippines; it was during the Mindanao campaign; and Constance (Joshua, I
noticed, took a deep breath before the name), the daughter, was at school in the
East. Gideon could gauge the spirits of the two, waiting here for what he
brought them. He kept tally of the soldier's letters, the thin blue ones that
came strolling in by the transport lines. But hers--her letters were his pride.
"'It's there all right,' he would say--'she never misses a Monday mail, the
little one!' or, as the winter months wore on--'you'll be counting the weeks
now, madam. Six more letters and then the telegram from Ogden, and I hope it's
my privilege to bring it, madam.' For as Fleming gave him his title, the old man
passed it back with a glow of emphasis, putting devotion into the 'madam' and
life service into the 'Mr. Fleming, sir.' "Then she came home--Constance--she
was no longer the little one. Taller than her mother, and rather silent, but her
looks were a language, and her motions about the house--I suppose no words could
measure their pride in her, or their shrinking when they thought of her in
contact with the world. People laughed a little, looking at her, when her mother
talked of the years they were going to have together. And she would rebuke the
laugh and say, 'We do not marry early in my family, nor the Flemings either.'
When the August heat came on, they thought she was too pale--they spared her for
a visit to some friends who had a houseboat off Belvedere, or some such place.
It was an ambush of fate. She came home, thin, brown, from living on the water,
--happy! too happy for safety. She brought her fate with her, the last man you'd
suppose could ever cross her path. He was from Hawaii, an Englishman--not all
English, some of us thought. Handsome as a snake; a face that kept no marks.
Eyes all black--nothing of the pupil showing. They say such eyes are not to be
trusted. I never liked him. I'd better not try to describe him. "It seemed
madness to me, but I suppose they were no more helpless than other fathers and
mothers. He had plenty to say for himself, and introductions--all sorts of
credentials, except a pair of eyes. They had to let it go on; and he took her
away from them six months after she saw him first. That's happiness, if you call
it so!" Again I added, "It is life." "There was not much left of it in this
house after she went," Joshua mused. "It was then they asked me to come up and
stay with them. A silence of three does not press quite so close as a silence of
two. And we talked sometimes. The mine had taken a great jump; it was almost a
mockery the way things boomed. The letters, I noticed, were not what the
schoolgirl letters had been to her mother. They came all right, they were
punctual, but something I felt sure was wrong. Mrs. Fleming would not have
missed a mail for anything in the world--every hour's delay wore upon her. She
would play her game of solitaire, long after bedtime, at that desk by the drop-
light. It seemed she could not read; nothing held her. She was irritable with
Fleming, and then she would pet him piteously to make up. He was always gentle.
He would watch her over his book as she walked up and down in the back room in
the light between the dining-room curtains. If he saw I noticed, he'd look away
and begin to talk. "I have gone a little ahead of my story, for this was after
the dark weather came on and the mails were behind; we knew there was some new
strain on her spirits. You could see her face grow small and her flesh waste
away. "One night we sat here, Fleming and I, and she was pacing in her soft,
weary way in the back of the room. There came a knock. It was Gideon's, yet none
of us heard the gate click nor any step outside. She stood back, for she never
showed any impatience--she tried to pretend that she expected nothing. Fleming
opened the door; he stood there an instant looking out. "'Didn't you hear a
knock?' he asked me. Before I could answer he went outside, closing the door,
and we heard him go down the steps slowly. "When he came in he merely said, 'A
jar of wind. "'A jar of wind!' Mrs. Fleming mocked him. The knock came again as
she spoke. Once, twice, then the light tap: I have described Gideon's knock. We
did not pretend again it was the wind. "'You go this time;' Fleming tried to
laugh. 'See if there is anything doing.' "There was nothing doing whatever, and
nothing to be seen. I turned on the electrics outside, and Fleming, seeing the
light, came out to join me. I asked him if those were his tracks--a man's
footsteps could be seen printed in the fresh, light snow as far as the lowest
step and back. All beyond, where the light streamed down the path to the gate,
was sky-fresh snow softly laid without wind. 'Those are my tracks,' he said.
'There were no others before--sure,' he repeated, 'and there is no one down at
the gate. You need not go down there. Say nothing to her,' he continued as we
re-opened the door. "She was expecting us. She was very pale but half smiling,
braving it out. She fixed her eyes on Fleming and then on me. 'Did you not
_both_ hear that knock?' As she spoke it came again. I stood nearest the door; I
hurled it open. Absolutely nothing. The lights, burning in a silly way, made
shadows on the steps. Not a mark, not even a leaf-track on the path we could see
below. "I went over to the telephone and called up the post-office. What
happened at the house in absence I do not know. I found the drawing-room empty;
Fleming joined me coming from his wife's room. "'She is fearfully upset by that
knocking,' he said. 'Can't we think up some explanation?' "I feared he would
have less courage for inventing explanations after what I had to tell him. "I
had followed the track of a horse and cart to the stable and found Gideon's old
mare at her hitching-post; the cart was empty, the muddy lap-robe dragging over
the wheel. At the post-office they told me Gideon had started for the mine an
hour and a half ago. 'Hasn't he got out there with that telegram yet?' they
added. From the telegraph office, where they knew Gideon's hours, they had sent
a message across to the post-office to be carried out by him with the mail. The
voice on the telephone remarked, 'I guess they ought to get that wire pretty
soon. It was marked _Important. '_

"Fleming was cold and shaking as he listened. 'Drive back along the road through
the woods, Joshua'--he seldom called me by that name. 'I think something has
happened to the old man. His knock is on duty tonight, but where is he?' "It
came again, and following it a low cry from passage behind closed doors. 'She
heard it too,' said Fleming. And he went to his wife. "I called up the landing-
man to help me--Tommy Briscoe; I knew he wouldn't spread any talk about. The
search was not long. A lantern burning by itself in the woods showed us where he
had stopped the cart and half turned and tramped around in the snow. He'd
dropped the bag out, probably, missed it and looked for it on foot, setting his
lantern down. He'd gone back quite a bit along the road, and, coming back with
it, the light in his eyes, he had made a misstep, and the shaft--the old Granite
Hill shaft, you know--it's close to the road. We found him in the sump at the
bottom. There had been too much rain, but it is a deep shaft anyway. He kept his
hold on the bag, and he kept his senses long enough to hook it onto a poor
little stray pine-root above the water, where he died. It was a cruel death, but
his face was good to look at." "And the telegram?" I asked. "It was safe. He'd
saved everything, except himself. They were driven over to Colfax that night,
with not a moment to spare----"

"But you haven't told me what it was." "The message? Yes, it was from her,
Constance--sent from an address in the city. It said--I suppose I may repeat it.
It is part of the night's work. "'Come to me, mother,' it said. 'I am here. I
need you.'" "And they were in time?" "To bid her good-by," said Joshua. "There
was no hope for her but in death. Of course, they never explained. She simply
fled from--we don't know what. As long as she could she bore it without
complaint, and then she came home. She had them both with her and she knew them.
"I believe they were willing to give her up. It was the only solution left. They
were very fixed in their ideas about divorce, and what comes after. They
believed in staking all or nothing and abiding the result. The logic of her
choice was death. They saw her free, without a stain, without an obligation in
this life even to her child, for it lay dead beside her. They did grieve for
that. They wanted it to live. It would have been something--yet, I believe, even
that was best. "They lived on here for a while, if you call it living; but the
silence in these rooms was more than she could endure. And I need not tell you
that the watchman, who was put on after Gideon, had orders to leave that knocker
alone." "And you think," I asked, "that while Gideon lay dead at the bottom of
the shaft, his knock was 'marching on'?" I regretted instantly the turn of my
last sentence. Joshua stiffened as he replied:

"No; I cannot assert that he was dead, but I am convinced that what was left of
him, of his mortal--or immortal--consciousness, was not concerned with himself.
What may happen to us at that last boundary post is one of the mysteries no man
can solve till he gets there." "Joshua," I said, "the drift of your conclusion
is a tribute to Gideon's faithfulness--well deserved I have no doubt. But if
you'll allow me to say so, it is not a tribute to the healthy state of your
mind. I regret to say it, but I fear that I agree with you: I think you have
lived in this house too long." "If I had lived here too long for any other
reason," he answered gently, "enough has been said. It is better we should
understand each other. But, as to my mind--I prefer to keep it unhealthy, if by
that you mean the tendency to project it a little further than reason, founded
on such laws of the universe as we know, can help us. Healthy minds are such as
accept things--endeavor to forget what gives immeasurable pain. I prefer the
pain." A YELLOW MAN AND A WHITE

BY

ELEANOR GATES

Reprinted from _Scribner's Magazine_ of June, 1905 by permission

FONG WU sat on the porch of his little square-fronted house, chanting into the
twilight. Across his padded blouse of purple silk lay his _sam-yen_ banjo. And
as, from time to time, his hymn to the Three Pure Ones was prolonged in high,
fine quavers, like the uneven, squeaky notes of a woman's voice, he ran his left
hand up the slender neck of the instrument, rested a long nail of his right on
its taut, snake's-skin head, and lightly touched the strings; then, in quick,
thin tones, they followed the song to Sang-Ching. The warm shadows of a
California summer night were settling down over the wooded hills and rocky
gulches about Fong Wu's, and there was little but his music to break the
silence. Long since, the chickens had sleepily sought perches in the hen yard,
with its high wall of rooty stumps and shakes, and on the branches of the Digger
pine that towered beside it. Up the dry creek bed, a mile away, twinkled the
lights of Whiskeytown; but no sounds from the homes of the white people came
down to the lonely Chinese. If his clear treble was interrupted, it was by the
cracking of a dry branch as a cottontail sped past on its way to a stagnant
pool, or it was by a dark-emboldened coyote, howling, dog-like, at the moon
which, white as the snow that eternally coifs the Sierras, was just rising above
their distant, cobalt line. One year before, Fong Wu, heavily laden with his
effects, had slipped out of the stage from Redding and found his way to a
forsaken, ramshackle building below Whiskeytown. His coming had proved of small
interest. When the news finally got about that "a monkey" was living in "Sam
Kennedy's old place," it was thought, for a while, that laundering, thereafter,
would be cheaply done. This hope, however, was soon dispelled. For, shortly
after his arrival, as Fong Wu asked at the grocery store for mail, he met
Radigan's inquiry of "You do my washee, John?" with a grave shake of the head.
Similar questions from others were met, later, in a similar way. Soon it became
generally known that the "monkey at Sam Kennedy's" did not do washing; so he was
troubled no further. Yet if Fong Wu did not work for the people of Whiskeytown,
he was not, therefore, idle. Many a sunrise found him wandering through the
chaparral thickets back of his house, digging here and there in the red soil for
roots and herbs. These he took home, washed, tasted, and, perhaps, dried. His
mornings were mainly spent in cooking for his abundantly supplied table, in
tending his fowls and house, and in making spotless and ironing smooth various
undergarments--generous of sleeve and leg. But of an afternoon, all petty duties
were laid aside, and he sorted carefully into place upon his shelves numerous
little bunches and boxes of dried herbs and numerous tiny phials of pungent
liquid that had come to him by post; he filled wide sheets of foolscap with
vertical lines of queer characters and consigned them to big, plainly addressed,
well-stamped envelopes; he scanned closely the last newspapers from San
Francisco, and read from volumes in divers tongues, and he poured over the
treasured Taoist book, "The Road to Virtue." Sunday was his one break in the
week's routine. Then, the coolies who panned or cradled for gold in tailings of
near-by abandoned mines, gathered at Fong Wu's. On such occasions, there was
endless, lively chatter, a steady exchange of barbering--one man scraping
another clean, to be, in turn, made hairless in a broad band about the poll and
on cheek and chin--and much consuming of tasty chicken, dried fish, pork, rice,
and melon seeds. To supplement all this, Fong Wu recounted the news: the arrival
of a consul in San Francisco, the raid on a slave--or gambling-den, the progress
of a tong war under the very noses of the baffled police, and the growth of
Coast feeling against the continued, quiet immigration of Chinese. But of the
social or political affairs of the Flowery Kingdom--of his own land beyond the
sea--Fong Wu was consistently silent. Added to his Sunday responsibilities as
host and purveyor of news, Fong Wu had others. An ailing countryman, whether
seized with malaria or suffering from an injury, found ready and efficient
attention. The bark of dogwood, properly cooked, gave a liquid that killed the
ague; and oil from a diminutive bottle, or a red powder whetted upon the skin
with a silver piece, brought out the soreness of a bruise. Thus, keeping his
house, herb-hunting, writing, studying, entertaining, doctoring, Fong Wu lived
on at Whiskeytown. Each evening, daintily manipulating ivory chopsticks, he ate
his supper of rice out of a dragon-bordered bowl. Then, when he had poured tea
from a pot all gold-encrusted--a cluster of blossoms nodding in a vase at his
shoulder the while--he went out upon the porch of the square-fronted house. And
there, as now, a scarlet-buttoned cap on his head, his black eyes soft with
dreaming, his richly wrought sandals tapping the floor in time, his long queue--
a smooth, shining serpent--in thick coils about his tawny neck, Fong Wu thrummed
gently upon the three-stringed banjo, and, in peace, chanted into the twilight.
*       *       *       *       *

Flying hoofs scattered the gravel on the strip of road before Fong Wu's. He
looked through the gloom and saw a horse flash past, carrying a skirted rider
toward Whiskeytown. His song died out. He let his banjo slip down until its
round head rested between his feet. Then he turned his face up the gulch.
Despite the dusk, he knew the traveler: Mrs. Anthony Barrett, who, with her
husband, had recently come to live in a house near Stillwater. Every evening,
when the heat was over, she went by, bound for the day's mail at the post-
office. Every evening, in the cool, Fong Wu saw her go, and sometimes she gave
him a friendly nod. Her mount was a spirited, mouse-dun mustang, with crop-ears,
a roached mane, and the back markings of a mule. She always rode at a run,
sitting with easy erectness. A wide army hat rested snugly on her fair hair, and
shaded a white forehead and level-looking eyes. But notwithstanding the
sheltering brim, on her girlish face were set the glowing, scarlet seals of wind
and sun. As he peered townward after her, Fong Wu heard the hurrying hoof-beats
grow gradually fainter and fainter--and cease. Presently the moon topped the
pines on the foot-hills behind him, bathing the gulch in light. The road down
which she would come sprang into view. He watched its farthest open point. In a
few moments the hoof-beats began again. Soon the glint of a light waist showed
through the trees. Next, horse and rider rounded a curve at hand. Fong Wu leaned
far forward. And then, just as the mustang gained the strip of road before the
square-fronted house, it gave a sudden, unlooked-for, outward leap, reared with
a wild snort, and, whirling, dashed past the porch--riderless. With an
exclamation, Fong Wu flung his banjo aside and ran to the road. There under a
manzanita bush, huddled and still, lay a figure. He caught it up, bore it to the
porch, and put it gently down. A brief examination, made with the deftness
practise gives, showed him that no bones were broken. Squatting beside the
unconscious woman, he next played slowly with his long-nailed fingers upon her
pulse. Its beat reassured him. He lighted a lamp and held it above her. The
scarlet of her cheeks was returning. The sight of her, who was so strong and
active, stretched weak and fainting, compelled Fong Wu into spoken comment. "The
petal of a plum blossom," he said compassionately, in his own tongue. She
stirred a little. He moved back. As, reviving, she opened her eyes, they fell
upon him. But he was half turned away, his face as blank and lifeless as a mask.
She gave a startled cry and sat up. "Me hurtee?" she asked him, adopting pidgin-
English "Me fallee off?" Fong Wu rose. "You were thrown," he answered gravely.
She colored in confusion. "Pardon me," she said, "for speaking to you as if you
were a coolie." Then, as she got feebly to her feet--"I believe my right arm is
broken." "I have some knowledge of healing," he declared; "let me look at it."
Before she could answer, he had ripped the sleeve away. "It is only a sprain,"
he said. "Wait." He went inside for an amber liquid and bandages. When he had
laved the injured muscles, he bound them round. "How did it happen?" she asked,
as he worked. He was so courteous and professional that her alarm was gone.
"Your horse was frightened by a rattler in the road. I heard it whir." She
shuddered. "I ought to be thankful that I didn't come my cropper on it," she
said, laughing nervously. He went inside again, this time to prepare a cupful of
herbs. When he offered her the draught, she screwed up her face over its
nauseating fumes. "If that acts as strongly as it tastes," she said, after she
had drunk it, "I'll be well soon." "It is to keep away inflammation." "Oh! Can I
go now?" "Yes. But tomorrow return, and I will look at the arm." He took the
lamp away and replaced his red-buttoned cap with a black felt hat. Then he
silently preceded her down the steps to the road. Only when the light of her
home shone plainly ahead of them, did he leave her. They had not spoken on the
way. But as he bowed a good night, she addressed him. "I thank you," she said.
"And may I ask your name?" "Kwa"--he began, and stopped. Emotion for an instant
softened his impassive countenance. He turned away. "Fong Wu," he added, and was
gone. The following afternoon the crunch of cart wheels before the square-
fronted house announced her coming. Fong Wu closed "The Book of Virtue," and
stepped out upon the porch. A white man was seated beside her in the vehicle. As
she sprang from it, light-footed and smiling, and mounted the steps, she
indicated him politely to the Chinese. "This is my husband," she said. "I have
told him how kind you were to me last night." Fong Wu nodded. Barrett hastened
to voice his gratitude. "I certainly am very much obliged to you," he said. "My
wife might have been bitten by the rattler, or she might have lain all night in
pain if you hadn't found her. And I want to say that your treatment was
splendid. Why, her arm hasn't swollen or hurt her. I'll be hanged if I can see--
you're such a good doctor--why you stay in this----"

Fong Wu interrupted him. "I will wet the bandage with medicine," he said, and
entered the house. They watched him with some curiosity as he treated the sprain
and studied the pulse. When he brought out her second cup of steaming herbs,
Mrs. Barrett looked up at him brightly. "You know we're up here for Mr.
Barrett's health," she said. "A year or so after we were married, he was hurt in
a railway collision. Since then, though his wounds healed nicely, he has never
been quite well. Dr. Lord, our family physician, prescribed plenty of rough
work, and a quiet place, far from the excitement of a town or city. Now, all
this morning, when I realized how wonderful it was that my arm wasn't aching,
I've been urging my husband--what do you suppose?--to come and be examined by
you!" Fong Wu, for the first time, looked fully at the white man, marking the
sallow, clayey face, with its dry, lined skin, its lusterless eyes and drooping
lids. Barrett scowled at his wife. "Nonsense, dear," he said crossly; "you know
very well that Lord would never forgive me." "But Fong Wu might help you," she
declared. Fong Wu's black eyes were still fixed searchingly upon the white man.
Before their scrutiny, soul-deep, the other's faltered and fell. "You might help
him, mightn't you, Fong Wu?" Mrs. Barrett repeated. An expression, curious,
keen, and full of meaning, was the answer. Then, "I might if he----" Fong Wu
said, and paused. Past Mrs. Barrett, whose back was toward her husband, the
latter had shot a warning glance. "Come, come, Edith," he cried irritably;
"let's get home." Mrs. Barrett emptied her cup bravely. "When shall we call
again?" she asked. "You need not come again," Fong Wu replied. "Each day you
have only to dampen the bandages from these." He handed her a green-flowered box
containing twelve tiny compartments; in each was a phial. "And I sha'n't have to
take any more of this--this awful stuff?" she demanded gaily, giving back the
cup. "No." "Ah! And now, I want to thank you again, with all my heart. Here,"--
she reached into the pocket of her walking-skirt,--"here is something for your
trouble." Two double-eagles lay on her open palm. Fong Wu frowned at them. "I
take no money," he said, a trifle gruffly. And as she got into the cart, he
closed the door of his home behind him. It was a week before Mrs. Barrett again
took up her rides for the mail. When she did, Fong Wu did not fail to be on his
porch as she passed. For each evening, as she cantered up the road, spurring the
mustang to its best paces, she reined to speak to him. And he met her greetings
with unaccustomed good humor. Then she went by one morning before sunrise,
riding like the wind. A little later she repassed, whipping her horse at every
gallop. Fong Wu, called to his door by the clatter, saw that her face was white
and drawn. At noon, going up to the post-office, he heard a bit of gossip that
seemed to bear upon her unwonted trip. Radigan was rehearsing it excitedly to
his wife, and the Chinese busied himself with his mail and listened--apparently
unconcerned. "I c'n tell you she ain't afraid of anythin', that Mrs. Barrett,"
the post-master was saying; "neither th' cayuse she rides or a critter on two
legs. An' that fancy little drug-clerk from 'Frisco got it straight from th'
shoulder." "S-s-sh!" admonished his wife, from the back of the office. "Isn't
there some one outside?" "Naw, just th' chink from Kennedy's. Well, as I
remarked, she did jus' light into that dude. 'It was criminal!' she says, an'
her eyes snapped like a whip; 'it was criminal! an' if I find out for sure that
you are guilty, I'll put you where you'll never do it again.' Th' young gent
smirked at her an' squirmed like a worm. 'You're wrong, Mrs. Barrett,' he says,
lookin' like th' meek puppy he is, 'an' you'll have t' look some place else for
th' person that done it.' But she wouldn't talk no longer--jus' walked out, as
mad as a hornet." "Well, well," mused Mrs. Radigan. "I wonder what 'twas all
about. 'Criminal,' she said, eh? That's funny!" She walked to the front of the
office and peeked through the wicket. But no one was loitering near except Fong
Wu, and his face was the picture of dull indifference. That night, long after
the hour for Mrs. Barrett's regular trip, and long past the time for his supper-
song, Fong Wu heard slow, shuffling steps approach the house. A moment
afterward, the knob of his door was rattled. He put out his light and slipped a
knife into his loose sleeve. After some fumbling and moving about on the porch,
a man called out to him. He recognized the voice. "Fong Wu! Fong Wu!" it begged.
"Let me in. I want to see you; I want to ask you for help--for something I need.
Let me in; let me in." Fong Wu, without answering, relit his lamp, and, with the
air of one who is at the same time both relieved and a witness of the expected,
flung the door wide. Then into the room, writhing as if in fearful agony, his
hands palsied, his face a-drip and, except for dark blotches about the mouth,
green-hued, his eyes wild and sunken, fell, rather than tottered, Anthony
Barrett. "Fong Wu," he pleaded, from the floor at the other's feet, "you helped
my wife when she was sick, now help me. I'm dying! I'm dying! Give it to me, for
God's sake! give it to me." He caught at the skirt of Fong Wu's blouse. The
Chinese retreated a little, scowling. "What do you want?" he asked. A paroxysm
of pain seized Barrett. He half rose and stumbled forward. "You know," he
panted, "you know. And if I don't have some, I'll die. I can't get it anywhere
else. She's found me out, and scared the drug-clerk. Oh, just a little, old man,
just a little!" He sank to the floor again. "I can give you nothing," said Fong
Wu bluntly. "I do not keep--what you want." With a curse, Barrett was up again.
"Oh, you don't," he screamed, leering frenziedly. "You yellow devil! You almond-
eyed pigtail! But I know you do! And I must have it. Quick! quick!" He hung,
clutching, on the edge of Fong Wu's wide ironing-table, an ashen wreck. Fong Wu
shook his head. With a cry, Barrett came at him and seized his lean throat. "You
damned highbinder!" he gasped. "You saddle-nosed monkey! You'll get me what I
want or I'll give you away. Don't I know why you're up here in these woods, with
your pretty clothes and your English talk? A_-ha_! You bet I do! You're hiding,
and you're wanted,"--he dropped his voice to a whisper,--"the tongs would pay
head-money for you. If you don't give it to me, I'll put every fiend in 'Frisco
on your trail." Fong Wu had caught Barrett's wrists. Now he cast him to one
side. "Tongs!" he said with a shrug, as if they were beneath his notice. And
"Fiends!" he repeated contemptuously, a taunt in his voice. The white man had
fallen prone and was grovelling weakly. "Oh, I won't tell on you," he wailed
imploringly. "I won't, I won't, Fong Wu; I swear it on my honor." Fong Wu
grunted and reached to a handy shelf. "I will make a bargain with you," he said
craftily; "first, you are to drink what I wish." "Anything! anything!" Barrett
cried. From a box of dry herbs, long untouched, the Chinese drew out a handful.
There was no time for brewing. Outraged nature demanded instant relief. He
dropped them into a bowl, covered them with water, and stirred swiftly. When the
stems and leaves were broken up and well mixed, he strained brown liquid from
them and put it to the other's lips. "Drink," he commanded, steadying the
shaking head. Barrett drank, unquestioningly. Instantly the potion worked.
Calmed as if by a miracle, made drowsy to a point where speech was impossible,
the white man, tortured but a moment before, tipped sleepily into Fong Wu's
arms. The Chinese waited until a full effect was secured, when he lifted his
limp patient to the blanket-covered ironing-table. Then he went out for fuel,
built a fire, and, humming softly--with no fear of waking the other--sat down to
watch the steeping of more herbs. *       *       *       *       *

What happened next at the square-fronted house was the unexpected. Again there
was a sound of approaching footsteps, again some one gained the porch. But this
time there was no pausing to ask for admission, there were no weak requests for
aid. A swift hand felt for the knob and found it; a strong arm pushed at the
unlocked door. And through it, bare-headed, with burning eyes and blanched
cheeks, her heavy riding-whip dangling by a thong from her wrist, came the wife
of Anthony Barrett. Just across the sill she halted and swept the dim room. A
moment, and the burning eyes fell upon the freighted ironing-table. She gave a
piercing cry. Fong Wu neither spoke nor moved. After the first outburst, she was
quiet--the quiet that is deliberative, threatening. Then she slowly closed her
fingers about the whip butt. Fixing her gaze in passionate anger upon him, she
advanced a few steps. _"So it was you,"_ she said, and her voice was hollow. To
that he made no sign, and even his colorless face told nothing. She came forward
a little farther, and sucked in a long, deep breath. "You _dog_ of a Chinaman!"
she said at last, and struck her riding-skirt. Fong Wu answered silently. With
an imperative gesture, he pointed out the figure on the ironing-table. She
sprang to her husband's side and bent over him. Presently she began to murmur to
herself. When, finally, she turned, there were tears on her lashes, she was
trembling visibly, and she spoke in whispers. "Was I wrong?" she demanded
brokenly. "I _must_ have been. He's not had it; I can tell by his quick, easy
breathing. And his ear has a faint color. You are trying to help him! I know! I
know!" A gleaming white line showed between the yellow of Fong Wu's lips. He
picked up a rude stool and set it by the table. She sank weakly upon it, letting
the whip fall. "Thank God! thank God!" she sobbed prayerfully, and buried her
face in her arms. [Illustration: "THE PETAL OF A PLUM BLOSSOM." FROM A PAINTING
BY ALBERTINE RANDALL, WHEELAN.] Throughout the long hours that followed, Fong
Wu, from the room's shadowy rear, sat watching. He knew sleep did not come to
her. For now and then he saw her shake from head to heel convulsively, as he had
seen men in his own country quiver beneath the scourge of bamboos. Now and then,
too, he heard her give a stifled moan, like the protest of a dumb creature. But
in no other ways did she bare her suffering. Quietly, lest she wake her husband,
she fought out the night. Only once did Fong Wu look away from her. Then, in
anger and disgust his eyes shifted to the figure on the table. "The petal of a
plum blossom"--he muttered in Chinese--"the petal of a plum blossom beneath the
hoofs of a pig!" And again his eyes dwelt upon the grief-bowed wife. But when
the dawn came stealing up from behind the purple Sierras, and Mrs. Barrett
raised her wan face, he was studiously reviewing his rows of bottles, outwardly
unaware of her presence. "Fong Wu," she said, in a low voice, "when will he
wake?" "When he is rested; at sunrise, maybe, or at noon." "And then?" "He will
be feeble. I shall give him more medicine, and he will sleep again." He rose and
busied himself at the fire. Soon he approached her, bringing the gold-encrusted
teapot and a small, handleless cup. She drank thirstily, filling and emptying
the cup many times. When she was done, she made as if to go. "I shall see that
everything is all right at home," she told him. "After that, I shall come back."
She stooped and kissed her husband tenderly. Fong Wu opened the door for her,
and she passed out. In the road, unhitched, but waiting, stood the mustang. She
mounted and rode away. When she returned, not long afterward, she was a new
woman. She had bathed her face and donned a fresh waist. Her eyes were alight,
and the scarlet was again flaming in her cheeks. Almost cheerfully, and
altogether hopefully, she resumed her post at the ironing-table. It was late in
the afternoon before Barrett woke. But he made no attempt to get up, and would
not eat. Fong Wu administered another dose of herbs, and without heeding his
patient's expostulations. The latter, after seeking his wife's hand, once more
sank into sleep. Just before sunset, Fong Wu, who scorned to rest, prepared
supper. Gratefully Mrs. Barrett partook of some tender chicken and rice cakes.
When darkness shut down, they took up their second long vigil. But it was not
the vigil of the previous night. She was able to think of other things than her
husband's condition and the doom that, of a sudden, had menaced her happiness.
Her spirits having risen, she was correspondingly impatient of a protracted,
oppressive stillness, and looked about for an interruption, and for diversion.
Across from her, a celestial patrician in his blouse of purple silk and his red-
buttoned cap, sat Fong Wu. Consumed with curiosity--now that she had time to
observe him closely--she longed to lift the yellow, expressionless mask from his
face--a face which might have patterned that of an oriental sphinx. At midnight,
when he approached the table to satisfy himself of Barrett's progress, and to
assure her of it, she essayed a conversation. Glancing up at his laden shelves,
she said, "I have been noticing your medicines, and how many kinds there seem to
be." "For each ailment that is visited upon man, earth offers a cure," he
answered. "Life would be a mock could Death, unchallenged, take it." "True. Have
you found in the earth, then, the cure for each ailment of man?" "For most, yes.
They seek yet, where I learned the art of healing, an antidote for the cobra's
bite. I know of no other they lack." "Where you were taught they must know more
than we of this country know." Fong Wu gave his shoulders a characteristic
shrug. "But," she continued, "you speak English so perfectly. Perhaps you were
taught that in this country." "No--in England. But the other, I was not." "In
England! Well!" "I went there as a young man." "But these herbs, these medicines
you have--they did not come from England, did they?" He smiled. "Some came from
the hills at our back." Then, crossing to his shelves and reaching up, "This"--
he touched a silk-covered package--"is from Sumbawa in the Indian Sea; and this"
--his finger was upon the cork of a phial--"is from Feng-shan, Formosa; and
other roots are taken in winter from the lake of Ting-ting-hu, which is then
dry; and still others come from the far mountains of Chamur." "Do you know,"
Mrs. Barrett said tentatively, "I have always heard that Chinese doctors give
horrid things for medicine--sharks' teeth, frogs' feet, lizards' tails, and--and
all sorts of dreadful things." Fong Wu proffered no enlightenment. "I am glad,"
she went on, "that I have learned better." After a while she began again:
"Doubtless there is other wonderful knowledge, besides that about doctoring,
which Chinese gentlemen possess." Fong Wu gave her a swift glance. "The
followers of Laou-Tsze know many things," he replied, and moved into the shadows
as if to close their talk. Toward morning, when he again gave her some tea, she
spoke of something that she had been turning over in her mind for hours. "You
would not take money for helping me when I was hurt," she said, "and I presume
you will refuse to take it for what you are doing now. But I should like you to
know that Mr. Barrett and I will always, always be your friends. If"--she looked
across at him, no more a part of his rude surroundings than was she--"if ever
there comes a time when we could be of use to you, you have only to tell us.
Please remember that." "I will remember." "I cannot help but feel," she went on,
and with a sincere desire to prove her gratitude, rather than to pry out any
secret of his, "that you do not belong here--that you are in more trouble than I
am. For what can a man of your rank have to do in a little town like this!" He
was not displeased with her. "The ancient sage," he said slowly, "mounted
himself upon a black ox and disappeared into the western wilderness of Thibet.
Doubtless others, too, seek seclusion for much thinking." "But you are not the
hermit kind," she declared boldly. "You belong to those who stay and fight. Yet
here you are, separated from your people and your people's graves--alone and
sorrowful." "As for my living people, they are best without me; as for my people
dead, I neither worship their dust nor propitiate devils. The wise one said,
'Why talk forever on of men who are long gone?'" "Yet----" she persisted. He
left the stove and came near her. "You are a woman, but you know much. You are
right. My heart is heavy for a thing I cannot do--for the shattered dreams of
the men of Hukwang." He beat his palms together noiselessly, and moved to and
fro on soft sandals. "Those dreams were of a young China that was to take the
place of the old--but that died unborn." She followed his words with growing
interest. "I have heard of those dreams," she answered; "they were called
'reform.'" "Yes. And now all the dreamers are gone. They had voyaged to glean at
Harvard, Yale, Cornell, and in the halls of Oxford. There were 'five loyal and
six learned,' and they shed their blood at the Chen Chih Gate. One there was who
died the death that is meted a slave at the court of the Son of Heaven. And one
there was"--his face shrank up, as if swiftly aging; his eyes became dark,
upturning slits; as one who fears pursuit, he cast a look behind him--"and one
there was who escaped beyond the blood-bathed walls of the Hidden City and
gained the Sumatra Coast. Then, leaving Perak, in the Straits Settlements, he
finally set foot upon a shore where men, without terror, may reach toward higher
things." "And was he followed?" she whispered, comprehending. "He fled quietly.
For long are the claws of the she-panther crouched on the throne of the Mings."
Both fell silent. The Chinese went back to the stove, where the fire was dying.
The white woman, wide awake, and lost in the myriad of scenes his tale had
conjured, sat by the table, for once almost forgetful of her charge. The
dragging hours of darkness past, Anthony Barrett found sane consciousness. He
was pale, yet strengthened by his long sleep, and he was hungry. Relieved and
overjoyed, Mrs. Barrett ministered to him. When he had eaten and drunk, she
helped him from the table to the stool, and thence to his feet. Her arm about
him, she led him to the door. Fong Wu had felt his pulse and it had ticked back
the desired message, so he was going home. "Each night you are to come," Fong Wu
said, as he bade them good-by. "And soon, very soon, you may go from here to the
place from which you came." Mrs. Barrett turned at the door. A plea for pardon
in misjudging him, thankfulness for his help, sympathy for his exile--all these
shone from her eyes. But words failed her. She held out her hand. He seemed not
to see it; he kept his arms at his sides. A "dog of a Chinaman" had best not
take a woman's hand. She went out, guiding her husband's footsteps, and helped
him climb upon the mustang from the height of the narrow porch. Then, taking the
horse by the bridle, she moved away down the slope to the road. Fong Wu did not
follow, but closed the door gently and went back to the ironing-table. A
handkerchief lay beside it--a dainty linen square that she had left. He picked
it up and held it before him by two corners. From it there wafted a faint, sweet
breath. Fong Wu let it flutter to the floor. "The perfume of a plum petal," he
said softly, in English; "the perfume of a plum petal." THE JUDGMENT OF MAN

BY

JAMES HOPPER

_Copyright_, 1906, by McClure, Phillips and Company

Reprinted from _Caybigan_ by permission

WE WERE sitting around the big center table in the _sala_ of the "House of
Guests" in Ilo-Ilo. We were teachers from Occidental Negros. It was near
Christmas; we had left our stations for the holidays--the cholera had just swept
them and the aftermath was not pleasant to contemplate--and so we were leaning
over the polished _narra_ table, sipping a sweet, false Spanish wine from which
we drew, not a convivial spirit, but rather a quiet, reflective gloom. All the
shell shutters were drawn back; we could see the tin-roofed city gleam and
crackle with the heat, and beyond the lithe line of cocoanuts, the iridescent
sea, tugging the heart with offer of coolness. But, all of us, we knew the
promise to be Fake, monumental Fake, knew the alluring depths to be hot as
corruption, and full of sharks. Somebody in a monotonous voice was cataloguing
the dead, enumerating those of us who had been conquered by the climate, by the
work, or through their own inward flaws. He mentioned Miller with some sort of
disparaging gesture, and then Carter of Balangilang, who had been very silent,
suddenly burst into speech with singular fury. "Who are you, to judge him?" he
shouted. "Who are you, eh? Who are we, anyway, to judge him?" Headlong outbursts
from Carter were nothing new to us, so we took no offense. Finally some one
said, "Well, he's dead," with that tone that signifies final judgment, the last,
best, most charitable thing which can be said of the man being weighed. But
Carter did not stop there. "You didn't know him, did you?" he asked. "You didn't
know him; tell me now, _did_ you know him?" He was still extraordinarily angry.
We did not answer. Really, we knew little of the dead man--excepting that he was
mean and small, and not worth knowing. He was mean, and he was a coward; and to
us in our uncompromising youth these were just the unpardonable sins. Because of
that we had left him alone; yes, come to think of it, very much alone. And we
knew little about him. "Here, I'll tell you what I know," Carter began again, in
a more conciliatory tone; "I'll tell you everything I know of him." He lit a
cheroot. "I first met him right here in Ilo-Ilo. I had crossed over for
supplies; he was fresh from Manila and wanted to get over to Bacolod to report
to the Sup. and be assigned to his station. When I saw him he was on the
_muelle_, surrounded by an army of bluffing _cargadores_. About twelve of them
had managed to get a finger upon his lone carpet-bag while it was being carried
down the gang-plank, and each and all of them wanted to get paid for the job. He
was in a horrible pickle; couldn't speak a word of Spanish or Visayan. And the
first thing he said when I had extricated him, thanks to my vituperative
knowledge of these sweet tongues, was: 'If them niggahs, seh, think Ah'm a-goin'
to learn their cussed lingo, they're mahtily mistaken, seh!' "After that remark,
coming straight from the heart, I hardly needed to be told that he was from the
South. He was from Mississippi. He was gaunt, yellow, malarial, and slovenly. He
had 'teached' for twenty years, he said, but in spite of this there was about
him something indescribably rural, something of the sod--not the dignity, the
sturdiness of it, but rather of the pettiness, the sordidness of it. It showed
in his dirty, flapping garments, his unlaced shoes, his stubble beard, in his
indecent carelessness in expectorating the tobacco he was ceaselessly chewing.
But these, after all, were some of his minor traits. I was soon to get an
inkling of one of his major ones--his prodigious meanness. For when I rushed
about and finally found a lorcha that was to sail for Bacolod and asked him to
chip in with me on provisions, he demurred. "'Ah'd like to git my own, seh,' he
said in that decisive drawl of his. "'All right,' I said cheerfully, and went
off and stocked up for two. My instinct served me well. When, that evening,
Miller walked up the gang-plank, he carried only his carpet-bag, and that was
flat and hungry-looking as before. The next morning he shared my provisions
calmly and resolutely, with an air, almost, of conscious duty. Well, let that
go; before another day I was face to face with his other flaming characteristic.
"Out of Ilo-Ilo we had contrary winds at first; all night the lorcha--an old
grandmother of a craft, full of dry-rot spots as big as woodpeckers' nests--
flapped heavily about on impotent tacks, and when the sun rose we found
ourselves on the same spot from which we had watched its setting. Toward ten
o'clock, however, the monsoon veered, and, wing-and-wing, the old boat, creaking
in every joint as if she had the dengue, grunted her way over flashing combers
with a speed that seemed almost indecent. Then, just as we were getting near
enough to catch the heated glitter of the Bacolod church-dome, to see the golden
thread of beach at the foot of the waving cocoanuts, the wind fell, slap-bang,
as suddenly as if God had said hush--and we stuck there, motionless, upon a
petrified sea. "I didn't stamp about and foam at the mouth; I'd been in these
climes too long. As for Miller, he was from Mississippi. We picked out a
comparatively clean spot on the deck, near the bow; we lay down on our backs and
relaxed our beings into infinite patience. We had been thus for perhaps an hour;
I was looking up at a little white cloud that seemed receding, receding into the
blue immensity behind it. Suddenly a noise like thunder roared in my ears. The
little cloud gave a great leap back into its place; the roar dwindled into the
voice of Miller, in plaintive, disturbed drawl. 'What the deuce are the niggahs
doing?' he was saying. "And certainly the behavior of that Visayan crew was
worthy of question. Huddled quietly at the stern, one after another they were
springing over the rail into the small boat that was dragging behind, and even
as I looked the last man disappeared with the painter in his hand. At the same
moment I became aware of a strange noise. Down in the bowels of the lorcha a
weird, gentle commotion was going on, a multitudinous 'gluck-gluck' as of many
bottles being emptied. A breath of hot, musty air was sighing out of the hatch.
Then the sea about the poop began to rise,--to rise slowly, calmly, steadily,
like milk in a heated pot. "'By the powers,' I shouted, 'the old tub is going
down!' "It was true. There, upon the sunlit sea, beneath the serene sky,
silently, weirdly, unprovoked, the old boat, as if weary, was sinking in one
long sigh of lassitude. And we, of course, were going with it. A few yards away
from the stern-post was the jolly-boat with the crew. I looked at them, and in
my heart I could not condemn them for their sly departure; they were all there,
_arraiz_, wife, children, and crew, so heaped together that they seemed only a
meaningless tangle of arms and legs and heads; the water was half an inch from
the gunwale, and the one man at the oars, hampered, paralyzed on all sides, was
splashing helplessly while the craft pivoted like a top. There was no anger in
my heart, yet I was not absolutely reconciled to the situation. I searched the
deck with my eyes, then from the jolly-boat the _arraiz_ obligingly yelled, '_El
biroto, el biroto_!' "And I remembered the rotten little canoe lashed amidships.
It didn't take us long to get it into the water (the water by that time was very
close at hand). I went carefully into it first so as to steady it for Miller,
and then, both of us at once, we saw that it would hold only one. The bottom, a
hollowed log, was stanch enough, but the sides, made of pitched bamboo lattice,
were sagging and torn. It would hold only one. "'Well, who is it?' I asked. In
my heart there was no craven panic, but neither was there sacrifice. Some vague
idea was in my mind, of deciding who should get the place by some game of
chance, tossing up a coin, for instance. "But Miller said, 'Ah cain't affawd to
take chances, seh; you must git out.' "He spoke calmly, with great seriousness,
but without undue emphasis--as one enunciating an uncontrovertible natural law.
I glanced up into his face, and it was in harmony with his voice. He didn't seem
particularly scared; he was serious, that's all; his eyes were set in that
peculiar, wide-pupiled stare of the man contemplating his own fixed idea. "'No,
seh; Ah cain't affawd it,' he repeated. "The absurdity of the thing suddenly
tingled in me like wine. 'All right!' I shouted, in a contagion of insanity;
'all right, take the darned thing!' "And I got out. I got out and let him step
stiffly into the boat, which I obligingly sent spinning from the lorcha with one
long, strong kick. Then I was alone on the deck, which suddenly looked immense,
stretched on all sides, limitless as loneliness itself. A heavy torpor fell from
the skies and amid this general silence, this immobility, the cabin door alone
seemed to live, live in weird manifestation. It had been left open, and now it
was swinging and slamming to and fro jerkily, and shuddering from top to bottom.
Half in plan, half in mere irritation at this senseless, incessant jigging, I
sprang toward it and with one nervous pull tore it, hinge and all, from the
rotten woodwork. I heaved it over the side, went in head first after it, took a
few strokes and lay, belly down, upon it. Just then the lorcha began to rise by
the head; the bowsprit went up slowly like a finger pointing solemnly to heaven;
then, without a sound, almost instantaneously, the whole fabric disappeared.
Across the now unoccupied space Miller and I rushed smoothly toward each other,
as if drawn by some gigantic magnet; our crafts bumped gently, like two savages
caressingly rubbing noses; they swung apart a little and lay side by side,
undulating slightly. "And we remained there, little black specks upon the
flashing sea. Two hundred yards away was the lorcha's boat; they had reshuffled
themselves more advantageously and were pulling slowly toward land. Not twenty
feet from me Miller sat upright in his canoe as if petrified. I was not so badly
off. The door floated me half out of water, and that was lukewarm, so I knew
that I could stand it a long time. What bothered me, though, was that the blamed
raft was not long enough; that is, the upper part of my body being heavier, it
took more door to support it, so that my feet were projecting beyond the lower
edge, and every second or so the nibbling of some imaginary shark sent them
flying up into the air in undignified gymnastics. The consoling part of it was
that Miller was paying no notice. He still sat up, rigid, in his canoe,
clutching the sides stiffly and looking neither to right nor left. From where I
lay I could see the cords of his neck drawn taut, and his knuckles showing
white. "'Why the deuce don't you paddle to shore?' I shouted at length, taking a
sudden disgust of the situation. "He did not turn his head as he answered, 'Ah--
Ah,' he stammered, the words coming hard as hiccoughs out of his throat, 'Ah
don't know haow.' "'Drop the sides of your boat and try,' I suggested. "He
seemed to ponder carefully over this for a while. 'Ah think it's safer to stay
this-a-way,' he decided finally. "'But, good Lord, man,' I cried, angry at this
calm stupidity, 'if that's what you're going to do, you'd better get on this
door here and let me take the boat. I'll paddle ashore and come back for you.'
"He turned his head slowly. He contemplated my raft long, carefully, critically.
"'Ah think Ah'll be safer heyah, seh,' he decided. 'It's a little bit o' old
door, and Ah reckon they's a heap of sharks around.' "After that I had little to
say. Given the premises of the man, his conclusions were unquestionable. And the
premises were a selfishness so tranquil, so ingenuous, so fresh, I might say,
that I couldn't work up the proper indignation. It was something so perfect as
to challenge admiration. On the whole, however, it afforded a poor subject for
conversation; so we remained there, taciturn, I on my door, half-submerged in
the tepid water, my heels flung up over my back, he in his dugout, rigid, his
hands clutching the sides as if he were trying to hold up the craft out of the
liquid abyss beneath. [Illustration: "NOT TWENTY FEET FROM ME MILLER SAT UPRIGHT
IN HIS CANOE AS IF PETRIFIED." FROM A PAINTING BY MERLE JOHNSON.] "And thus we
were still when, just as the sun was setting somberly, a velos full of
chattering natives picked us up. They landed us at Bacolod, and Miller left me
to report to the Sup. I departed before sun-up the next morning for my station.
I didn't want to see Miller again. "But I did. One night he came floundering
through my pueblo. It was in the middle of the rainy season. He wasn't exactly
caked with mud; rather, he seemed to ooze it out of every pore. He had been
assigned to Binalbagan, ten miles further down. I stared when he told me this.
Binalbagan was the worst post on the island, a musty, pestilential hole with a
sullenly hostile population, and he--well, inefficiency was branded all over him
in six-foot letters. I tried to stop him overnight, but he would not do it, and
I saw him splash off in the darkness, gaunt, yellow, mournful. "I saw little of
him after that. I was busy establishing new barrio-schools, which were to give
me excuses for long horseback rides of inspection. I felt his presence down
there in that vague way by which you are aware of a person behind your back
without turning around. Rumors of his doings reached me. He was having a
horrible time. On the night of his arrival he had been invited to dinner by the
Presidente, a kind old primitive soul, but when he found that he was expected to
sit at the table with the family, he had stamped off, indignant, saying that he
didn't eat with no niggers. As I've said before, the town was hostile, and this
attitude did not help matters much. He couldn't get the school moneys out of the
Tesorero--an unmitigated rascal--but that did not make much difference, for he
had no pupils anyhow. He couldn't speak a word of Spanish; no one in the town,
of course, knew any English--he must have been horribly lonely. He began to wear
_camisas_, like the natives. That's always a bad sign. It shows that the man has
discovered that there is no one to care how he dresses--that is, that there is
no longer any public opinion. It indicates something subtly worse--that the man
has ceased looking at himself, that the _I_ has ceased criticising, judging,
stiffening up the _me_,--in other words, that there is no longer any conscience.
That white suit, I tell you, is a wonderful moral force; the white suit, put on
fresh every morning, heavily starched, buttoned up to the chin, is like an
armor, ironcladding you against the germ of decay buzzing about you, ceaselessly
vigilant for the little vulnerable spot. Miller wore _camisas_, and then he
began to go without shoes. I saw that myself. I was riding through his pueblo on
my way to Dent's, and I passed his school. I looked into the open door as my
head bobbed by at the height of the stilt-raised floor. He was in his _camisa_
and barefooted; his long neck stretched out of the collarless garment with a
mournful, stork-like expression. Squatting on the floor were three trouserless,
dirt-incrusted boys; he was pointing at a chart standing before their eyes, and
all together they were shouting some word that exploded away down in their
throats in tremendous effort and never seemed to reach their lips. I called out
and waved my hand as I went by, and when I looked back, a hundred yards farther,
I saw that he had come out upon the bamboo platform outside of the door, gaping
after me with his chin thrown forward in that mournful, stork-like way--I should
have gone back. "With him, I must say, the _camisa_ did not mean all that I have
suggested, not the sort of degradation of which it is the symbol in other men.
The most extravagant imagination could not have linked him with anything that
smacked of romance, romance however sordid. His vices, I had sized it, would
come rather from an excess of calculation than from a lack of it. No, that
_camisa_ was just a sign of his meanness, his prodigious meanness. And of that I
was soon given an extraordinary example. "I had with me a young fellow named
Ledesma, whom I was training to be assistant _maestro_. He was very bright,
thirsty to learn, and extremely curious of us white men. I don't believe that
the actions of one of them, for fifty miles around, ever escaped him, and every
day he came to me with some talk, some rumor, some gossip about my fellow-exiles
which he would relate to me with those strange interrogative inflections that he
had brought from his native dialect into English--as if perpetually he were
seeking explanation, confirmation. One morning he said to me: 'The _maestro_
Miller, he does not eat.' "'No?' I answered, absent-mindedly. "'No, he never
eats,' he reiterated authoritatively, although that peculiar Visayan inflection
of which I have spoken gave him the air of asking a question. "'Oh, I suppose he
does,' I said, carelessly. "'He does not eat,' he repeated. 'Every one in
Binalbagan say so. Since he there, he has not bought anything at the store.'
"'His _muchachos_ bring him chicken,' I suggested. "No, senor; he very funny; he
has no _muchachos_; not one _muchacho_ has he.' "'Well, he probably has canned
provisions sent him.' "'No, senor; the _cargadores_ they say that never never
have they carried anything for him. He does not eat.' "'Very well,' I concluded,
somewhat amused; 'he does not eat.' "The boy was silent for a minute, then,
'Senor Maestro,' he asked with suspicious ingenuousness 'can Americans live
without eating?' "So that I was not able to drop the subject as easily as I
wished. And coming to a forced consideration of it, I found that my anxiety to
do so was not very beautiful after all. A picture came to me--that of Miller on
his bamboo platform before his door, gazing mournfully after me, his chin thrown
forward. It did not leave me the day long, and at sundown I saddled up and
trotted off toward Binalbagan. "I didn't reach the pueblo that night, however.
Only a mile from it I plunged out of the moonlight into the pitch darkness of a
hollow lane cutting through Don Jaime's hacienda. Banana palms were growing
thick to right and left; the way was narrow and deep--it was a fine place for
cutthroats, but that avocation had lost much of its romantic charm from the fact
that, not three weeks before, an actual cutthroating had taken place, a Chinese
merchant having been boloed by _tusilanes_. Well, I was trotting through, my
right hand somewhat close to my holster, when from the right, close, there came
a soft, reiterated chopping noise. I pulled up my pony. The sound kept up--a
discreet, persistent chopping; then I saw, up above, the moonlit top of a palm
shuddering, though all about it the others remained motionless, petrified as if
of solid silver. It was a very simple thing after all: some one in there was
cutting down a palm to get bananas, an occupation very common in the
Philippines, and very pacific, in spite of the ominous air given to it by the
gigantic bolo used. However, something prompted me to draw the midnight
harvester out. "'Heh, _ladron_, what are you doing there?' I shouted in dialect.
"'There was a most sudden silence. The chopping ceased, the palm stopped
vibrating. A vague form bounded down the lane, right up against my horse's nose,
rolled over, straightened up again, and vanished into the darkness ahead.
Unconsciously I spurred on after it. For a hundred yards I galloped with nothing
in sight. Then I caught a rapid view of the thing as it burst through a shaft of
moonlight piercing the glade, and it showed as a man, a grotesque figure of a
man in loose white pantaloons. He was frightened, horribly frightened, all
hunched up with the frenzy to escape. An indistinct bundle was on his right
shoulder. Like a curtain the dark snapped shut behind him again, but I urged on
with a wild hallo, my blood all a-tingle with the exultation of the chase. I
gained--he must have been a lamentable runner, for my poor little pony was
staggering under my tumultuous weight. I could hear him pant and sob a few yards
in advance; then he came into sight, a dim, loping whiteness ahead. Suddenly the
bundle left his shoulder; something rolled along the ground under my horse's
hoofs--and I was standing on my head in a soft, oozy place. I was mad, furiously
mad. I picked myself up, went back a few yards, and taking my pony by the nose
picked _him_ up. A touch of his throbbing flanks, however, warned me as I was
putting my foot into the stirrup. I left him there and thundered on foot down
the lane. I have said I was mad. 'Yip-yip-yah-ah, yip-yip-yah-ah!' I yelled as I
dashed on--a yell I had heard among California cattlemen. It must have paralyzed
that flying personage, for I gained upon him shockingly. I could hear him pant,
a queer, patient panting, a sigh rather, a gentle, lamenting sighing, and the
white _camisa_ flapped ghostily in the darkness. Suddenly he burst out of
obscurity, past the plantation, into the glaring moonlight. And I--I stopped
short, went down on my hands and knees, and crouched back into the shadow. For
the man running was Miller; Miller, wild, sobbing, disheveled, his shoulders
drawn up to his ears in terrible weariness, his whole body taut with fear, and
scudding, scudding away, low along the ground, his chin forward, mournful as a
stork. Soon he was across the luminous space, and then he disappeared into the
darkness on the other side, flopped head first into it as if hiding his face in
a pillow. "I returned slowly to my horse. He was standing where I had left him,
his four legs far apart in a wide base. Between them was the thing cast off by
Miller which had thrown us. I examined it by the light of a box of matches. It
was a bunch of bananas, one of those gigantic clusters which can be cut from the
palms. I got on my horse and rode back home. "I didn't go to see him any more. A
man who will steal bananas in a country where they can be bought a dozen for one
cent is too mean to be worth visiting. I had another reason, too. It had dawned
on me that Miller probably did not care to see any of us, that he had come down
to a mode of life which would not leave him appreciative of confrontations with
past standards. It was almost charity to leave him to himself. "So I left him to
himself, and he lived on in his pestilential little hole, alone--lived a life
more squalid every day. It wasn't at all a healthy life, you can understand, no
healthier physically than morally. After a while I heard that he was looking
bad, yellow as a lemon, and the dengue cracking at his bones. I began to think
of going to him after all, of jerking him out of his rut by force, if necessary,
making him respect the traditions of his race. But just then came that Nichols
affair, and flaring, his other bad side--his abject cowardice--reappeared to me.
You remember the Nichols thing--boloed in the dark between my town and
Himamaylan. His _muchacho_ had jumped into the ditch. Afterward he got out and
ran back the whole way, fifteen miles, to my place. I started down there. My
idea was to pick up Miller as I passed, then Dent a little further down, find
the body, and perhaps indications for White of the constabulary, to whom I had
sent a messenger and who could not reach the place till morning. Well, Miller
refused to go. He had caught hold of some rumor of the happening; he was
barricaded in his hut and was sitting on his bed, a big Colt's revolver across
his knees. He would not go, he said it plainly. 'No, seh; Ah cain't take
chances; Ah cain't affawd it.' He said this without much fire, almost
tranquilly, exactly as he had, you remember, at the time of our shipwreck. It
was not so amusing now, however. Here, on land, amid this swarming, mysterious
hostility, at this crisis, it seemed a shocking betrayal of the solidarity that
bound all us white men. A red rage took possession of me. I stood there above
him and poured out vituperation for five good minutes. I found the most
extraordinary epithets; I lowered my voice and pierced him with venomous
thrusts. He took it all. He remained seated on his bed, his revolver across his
knees, looking straight at some spot on the floor; whenever I'd become
particularly effective he'd merely look harder at the spot, as if for him it
contained something of higher significance--a command, a rule, a precept--I
don't know what, and then he'd say, 'No, Ah cain't; Ah cain't affawd it.' "I
burst out of there, a-roar like a bombshell. I rode down to Dent; we rode down
to the place and did--what there was to be done. Miller I never wanted to see
again. "But I did. Some three weeks later a carrier came to me with a note--a
penciled scrawl upon a torn piece of paper. It read:

"'I think I am dying. Can you come see me? 'MILLER.' "I went down right away. He
was dead. He had died there, alone, in his filthy little hut, in that God-
forsaken pueblo, ten miles from the nearest white man, ten thousand miles from
his home. "I'll always remember our coming in. It was night. It had been raining
for thirty-six hours, and as we stepped into the unlighted hut, my _muchacho_
and I, right away the floor grew sticky and slimy with the mud on our feet, and
as we groped about blindly, we seemed ankle-deep in something greasy and
abominable like gore. After a while the boy got a torch outside, and as he
flared it I caught sight of Miller on his cot, backed up into one corner. He was
sitting upright, staring straight ahead and a little down, as if in careful
consideration. As I stepped toward him the pliable bamboo floor undulated; the
movement was carried to him and he began to nod, very gently and gravely. He
seemed to be saying: 'No, Ah cain't affawd it.' It was atrocious. Finally I was
by his side and he was again motionless, staring thoughtfully. Then I saw he was
considering. In his hands, which lay twined on his knees, were a lot of little
metallic oblongs. I disengaged them. The _muchacho_ drew nearer, and with the
torch over my shoulder I examined them. They were photographs, cheap tintypes.
The first was of a woman, a poor being, sagging with overwork, a lamentable baby
in her arms. The other pictures were of children--six of them, boys and girls,
of all ages from twelve to three, and under each, in painful chirography, a name
was written--Lee Miller, Amy Miller, Geraldine Miller, and so on. "You don't
understand, do you? For a moment I didn't. I stared stupidly at those tintypes,
shuffled and reshuffled them; the torch roared in my ear. Then, suddenly,
understanding came to me, sharp as a pang. He had a wife and seven children. "A
simple fact, wasn't it, a commonplace one, almost vulgar, you might say. And yet
what a change of view produced by it, what a dislocation of judgment! I was like
a man riding through a strange country, in a storm, at night. It is dark, he
cannot see, he has never seen the country, yet as he rides on he begins to
picture to himself the surroundings, his imagination builds for him a landscape
--a mountain there, a river here, wind-streaming trees over there--and right
away it exists, it _is_, it has solidity, mass, life. Then suddenly comes a
flash of lightning, a second of light, and he is astounded, absolutely astounded
to see the real landscape different from that indestructible thing that his mind
had built. Thus it was with me. I had judged, oh, I had judged him thoroughly,
sized him up to a certainty, and bang, came the flare of this new fact, this
extremely commonplace fact, and I was all off. I must begin to judge again, only
it would never do that man any good. "A hundred memories came back to me, glared
at me in the illumination of that new fact. I remember the _camisa_, the bare
feet. I saw him running down the lane with his bunch of stolen bananas. I
recalled that absurd scene on the waters; I heard him say: 'No, seh; Ah cain't
affawd to take chances; Ah cain't affawd it.' "Of course he couldn't afford it.
Think--a wife and seven children! "That night I went through his papers, putting
things in order, and from every leaf, every scrap, came corroboration of the new
fact. He was one of those pitiful pedagogues of the rural South, shiftless,
half-educated, inefficient. He had never been able to earn much, and his family
had always gently starved. Then had come the chance--the golden chance--the
Philippines and a thousand a year. He had taken the bait, had come ten thousand
miles to the spot of his maximum value. Only, things had not gone quite right.
Thanks to the beautiful red-tape of the department, three months had gone before
he had received his first month's pay. Then it had come in Mex., and when he had
succeeded in changing it into gold it had dwindled to sixty dollars. Of course,
he had sent it all back, for even then it would take it six more weeks to reach
its destination, and sixty dollars is hardly too much to tide over five months
for a family of eight. These five months had to be caught up in some way, so
every month his salary, depreciated ten per cent by the change, had gone across
the waters. He wore _camisas_ and no shoes, he stole bananas. And his value,
shoeless, _camisa_-clothed, was sixty dollars a month. He was just so much
capital. He had to be careful of that capital. "'Ah cain't affawd to take
chances; Ah cain't affawd it.' Of course he couldn't. "And so he had fought on
blindly, stubbornly, and, at last, with that pitiful faculty we have, all of us,
of defeating our own plans, he had killed himself, he had killed the capital,
the golden goose. "Yes, I found confirmation, but, after all, I did not need it.
I had learned it all; understanding had come to me, swift, sharp, vital as a
pang, when in the roaring light of the torch I had looked upon the pale little
tintypes, the tintypes of Lee and Amy and Jackson and Geraldine." THE LEAGUE OF
THE OLD MEN

BY

JACK LONDON

_Copyright_, 1902, by the Macmillan Company Reprinted from CHILDREN OF THE FROST
by permission

AT THE Barracks a man was being tried for his life. He was an old man, a native
from the Whitefish River, which empties into the Yukon below Lake Le Barge. All
Dawson was wrought up over the affair, and likewise the Yukon-dwellers for a
thousand miles up and down. It has been the custom of the land-robbing and sea-
robbing Anglo-Saxon to give the law to conquered peoples, and ofttimes this law
is harsh. But in the case of Imber the law for once seemed inadequate and weak.
In the mathematical nature of things, equity did not reside in the punishment to
be accorded him. The punishment was a foregone conclusion, there could be no
doubt of that; and though it was capital, Imber had but one life, while the tale
against him was one of scores. In fact, the blood of so many was upon his hands
that the killings attributed to him did not permit of precise enumeration.
Smoking a pipe by the trail-side or lounging around the stove, men made rough
estimates of the numbers that had perished at his hand. They had been whites,
all of them, these poor murdered people, and they had been slain singly, in
pairs, and in parties. And so purposeless and wanton had been these killings,
that they had long been a mystery to the mounted police, even in the time of the
captains, and later, when the creeks realized, and a governor came from the
Dominion to make the land pay for its prosperity. But more mysterious still was
the coming of Imber to Dawson to give himself up. It was in the late spring,
when the Yukon was growling and writhing under its ice, that the old Indian
climbed painfully up the bank from the river trail and stood blinking on the
main street. Men who had witnessed his advent, noted that he was weak and
tottery, and that he staggered over to a heap of cabin-logs and sat down. He sat
there a full day, staring straight before him at the unceasing tide of white men
that flooded past. Many a head jerked curiously to the side to meet his stare,
and more than one remark was dropped anent the old Siwash with so strange a look
upon his face. No end of men remembered afterward that they had been struck by
his extraordinary figure, and forever afterward prided themselves upon their
swift discernment of the unusual. But it remained for Dickensen, Little
Dickensen, to be the hero of the occasion. Little Dickensen had come into the
land with great dreams and a pocketful of cash; but with the cash the dreams
vanished, and to earn his passage back to the States he had accepted a clerical
position with the brokerage firm of Holbrook and Mason. Across the street from
the office of Holbrook and Mason was the heap of cabin-logs upon which Imber
sat. Dickensen looked out of the window at him before he went to lunch; and when
he came back from lunch he looked out of the window, and the old Siwash was
still there. Dickensen continued to look out of the window, and he, too, forever
afterward prided himself upon his swiftness of discernment. He was a romantic
little chap, and he likened the immobile old heathen the genius of the Siwash
race, gazing calm-eyed upon the hosts of the invading Saxon. The hours swept
along, but Imber did not vary his posture, did not by a hair's-breadth move a
muscle; and Dickensen remembered the man who once sat upright on a sled in the
main street where men passed to and fro. They thought the man was resting, but
later, when they touched him, they found him stiff and cold, frozen to death in
the midst of the busy street. To undouble him, that he might fit into a coffin,
they had been forced to lug him to a fire and thaw him out a bit. Dickensen
shivered at the recollection. Later on, Dickensen went out on the sidewalk to
smoke a cigar and cool off; and a little later Emily Travis happened along.
Emily Travis was dainty and delicate and rare, and whether in London or
Klondike, she gowned herself as befitted the daughter of a millionaire mining
engineer. Little Dickensen deposited his cigar on an outside window ledge where
he could find it again, and lifted his hat. They chatted for ten minutes or so,
when Emily Travis, glancing past Dickensen's shoulder, gave a startled little
scream. Dickensen turned about to see, and was startled, too. Imber had crossed
the street and was standing there, a gaunt and hungry-looking shadow, his gaze
riveted upon the girl. "What do you want?" Little Dickensen demanded,
tremulously plucky. Imber grunted and stalked up to Emily Travis. He looked her
over, keenly and carefully, every square inch of her. Especially did he appear
interested in her silky brown hair, and in the color of her cheek, faintly
sprayed and soft, like the downy bloom of a butterfly wing. He walked around
her, surveying her with the calculating eye of a man who studies the lines upon
which a horse or a boat is builded. In the course of his circuit the pink shell
of her ear came between his eye and the westering sun, and he stopped to
contemplate its rosy transparency. Then he returned to her face and looked long
and intently into her blue eyes. He grunted and laid a hand on her arm midway
between the shoulder and elbow. With his other hand he lifted her forearm and
doubled it back. Disgust and wonder showed in his face, and he dropped her arm
with a contemptuous grunt. Then he muttered a few guttural syllables, turned his
back upon her, and addressed himself to Dickensen. Dickensen could not
understand his speech, and Emily Travis laughed. Imber turned from one to the
other, frowning, but both shook their heads. He was about to go away, when she
called out:

"Oh, Jimmy! Come here!" Jimmy came from the other side of the street. He was a
big, hulking Indian clad in approved white-man style, with an Eldorado king's
sombrero on his head. He talked with Imber, haltingly, with throaty spasms.
Jimmy was a Sitkan, possessed of no more than a passing knowledge of the
interior dialects. "Him Whitefish man," he said to Emily Travis. "Me savve um
talk no very much. Him want to look see chief white man." "The Governor,"
suggested Dickensen. Jimmy talked some more with the Whitefish man, and his face
went grave and puzzled. "I t'ink um want Cap'n Alexander," he explained. "Him
say um kill white man, white woman, white boy, plenty kill um white people. Him
want to die." "'Insane, I guess," said Dickensen. "What you call dat?" queried
Jimmy. Dickensen thrust a finger figuratively inside his head and imparted a
rotary motion thereto. "Mebbe so, mebbe so," said Jimmy, returning to Imber, who
still demanded the chief man of the white men. A mounted policeman (unmounted
for Klondike service) joined the group and heard Imber's wish repeated. He was a
stalwart young fellow, broad-shouldered, deep-chested, legs cleanly built and
stretched wide apart, and tall though Imber was, he towered above him by half a
head. His eyes were cool, and gray, and steady, and he carried himself with the
peculiar confidence of power that is bred of blood and tradition. His splendid
masculinity was emphasized by his excessive boyishness,--he was a mere lad,--and
his smooth cheek promised a blush as willingly as the cheek of a maid. Imber was
drawn to him at once. The fire leaped into his eyes at sight of a sabre slash
that scarred his cheek. He ran a withered hand down the young fellow's leg and
caressed the swelling thew. He smote the broad chest with his knuckles, and
pressed and prodded the thick muscle-pads that covered the shoulders like a
cuirass. The group had been added to by curious passers-by--husky miners,
mountaineers, and frontiersmen, sons of the long-legged and broad-shouldered
generations. Imber glanced from one to another, then he spoke aloud in the
Whitefish tongue. "What did he say?" asked Dickensen. "Him say um all the same
one man, dat p'liceman," Jimmy interpreted. Little Dickensen was little, and
what of Miss Travis, he felt sorry for having asked the question. The policeman
was sorry for him and stepped into the breach. "I fancy there may be something
in his story. I'll take him up to the captain for examination. Tell him to come
along with me, Jimmy." Jimmy indulged in more throaty spasms, and Imber grunted
and looked satisfied. "But ask him what he said, Jimmy, and what he meant when
he took hold of my arm." So spoke Emily Travis, and Jimmy put the question and
received the answer. "Him say you no afraid," said Jimmy. Emily Travis looked
pleased. "Him say you no _skookum_, no strong, all the same very soft like
little baby. Him break you, in um two hands, to little pieces. Him t'ink much
funny, very strange, how you can be mother of men so big, so strong, like dat
p'liceman." Emily Travers kept her eyes up and unfaltering, but her cheeks were
sprayed with scarlet. Little Dickensen blushed and was quite embarrassed. The
policeman's face blazed with his boy's blood. "Come along, you," he said
gruffly, setting his shoulder to the crowd and forcing a way. Thus it was that
Imber found his way to the Barracks, where he made full and voluntary
confession, and from the precincts of which he never emerged. *       *       *
*       *

Imber looked very tired. The fatigue of hopelessness and age was in his face.
His shoulders drooped depressingly, and his eyes were lack-luster. His mop of
hair should have been white, but sun--and weather-beat had burned and bitten it
so that it hung limp and lifeless and colorless. He took no interest in what
went on around him. The court-room was jammed with the men of the creeks and
trails, and there was an ominous note in the rumble and grumble of their low-
pitched voices, which came to his ears like the growl of the sea from deep
caverns. He sat close by a window, and his apathetic eyes rested now and again
on the dreary scene without. The sky was overcast, and a gray drizzle was
falling. It was flood-time on the Yukon. The ice was gone, and the river was up
in the town. Back and forth on the main street, in canoes and poling-boats,
passed the people that never rested. Often he saw these boats turn aside from
the street and enter the flooded square that marked the Barracks' parade-ground.
Sometimes they disappeared beneath him, and he heard them jar against the house-
logs and their occupants scramble in through the window. After that came the
slush of water against men's legs as they waded across the lower room and
mounted the stairs. Then they appeared in the doorway, with doffed hats and
dripping sea-boots, and added themselves to the waiting crowd. And while they
centered their looks on him, and in grim anticipation enjoyed the penalty he was
to pay, Imber looked at them, and mused on their ways, and on their Law that
never slept, but went on unceasing, in good times and bad, in flood and famine,
through trouble and terror and death, and which would go on unceasing, it seemed
to him, to the end of time. A man rapped sharply on a table, and the
conversation droned away into silence. Imber looked at the man. He seemed one in
authority, yet Imber divined the square-browed man who sat by a desk farther
back to be the one chief over them all and over the man who had rapped. Another
man by the same table uprose and began to read aloud from many fine sheets of
paper. At the top of each sheet he cleared his throat, at the bottom moistened
his fingers. Imber did not understand his speech, but the others did, and he
knew that it made them angry. Sometimes it made them very angry, and once a man
cursed him, in single syllables, stinging and tense, till a man at the table
rapped him to silence. For an interminable period the man read. His monotonous,
sing-song utterance lured Imber to dreaming, and he was dreaming deeply when the
man ceased. A voice spoke to him in his own Whitefish tongue, and he roused up,
without surprise, to look upon the face of his sister's son, a young man who had
wandered away years agone to make his dwelling with the whites. "Thou dost not
remember me," he said by way of greeting. "Nay," Imber answered. "Thou art
Howkan who went away. Thy mother be dead." "She was an old woman," said Howkan.
But Imber did not hear, and Howkan, with hand upon his shoulder, roused him
again. "I shall speak to thee what the man has spoken, which is the tale of the
troubles thou hast done and which thou hast told, O fool, to the Captain
Alexander. And thou shalt understand and say if it be true talk or talk not
true. It is so commanded." Howkan had fallen among the mission folk and been
taught by them to read and write. In his hands he held the many fine sheets from
which the man had read aloud and which had been taken down by a clerk when Imber
first made confession, through the mouth of Jimmy, to Captain Alexander. Howkan
began to read. Imber listened for a space, when a wonderment rose up in his face
and he broke in abruptly. "That be my talk, Howkan. Yet from thy lips it comes
when thy ears have not heard." Howkan smirked with self-appreciation. His hair
was parted in the middle. "Nay, from the paper it comes, O Imber. Never have my
ears heard. From the paper it comes, through my eyes, into my head, and out of
my mouth to thee. Thus it comes." "Thus it comes? It be there in the paper?"
Imber's voice sank in whisperful awe as he crackled the sheets 'twixt thumb and
finger and stared at the charactery scrawled thereon. "It be a great medicine,
Howkan, and thou art a worker of wonders." "It be nothing, it be nothing," the
young man responded carelessly and pridefully. He read at hazard from the
document: "_In that year, before the break of the ice, came an old man, and a
boy who was lame of one foot. These also did I kill, and the old man made much
noise_----"

"It be true," Imber interrupted breathlessly, "He made much noise and would not
die for a long time. But how dost thou know, Howkan? The chief man of the white
men told thee, mayhap? No one beheld me, and him alone have I told." Howkan
shook his head with impatience. "Have I not told thee it be there in the paper,
O fool?" Imber stared hard at the ink-scrawled surface. "As the hunter looks
upon the snow and says, Here but yesterday there passed a rabbit; and here by
the willow scrub it stood and listened, and heard, and was afraid; and here it
turned upon its trail; and here it went with great swiftness, leaping wide; and
here, with greater swiftness and wider leapings, came a lynx; and here, where
the claws cut deep into the snow, the lynx made a very great leap; and here it
struck, with the rabbit under and rolling belly up; and here leads off the trail
of the lynx alone, and there is no more rabbit,--as the hunter looks upon the
markings of the snow and says thus and so and here, dost thou, too, look upon
the paper and say thus and so and here be the things old Imber hath done?" "Even
so," said Howkan. "And now do thou listen, and keep thy woman's tongue between
thy teeth till thou art called upon for speech." Thereafter, and for a long
time, Howkan read to him the confession, and Imber remained musing and silent.
At the end, he said:

"It be my talk, and true talk, but I am grown old, Howkan, and forgotten things
come back to me which were well for the head man there to know. First, there was
the man who came over the Ice Mountains, with cunning traps made of iron, who
sought the beaver of the Whitefish. Him I slew. And there were three men seeking
gold on the Whitefish long ago. Them also I slew, and left them to the
wolverines. And at the Five Fingers there was a man with a raft and much meat."
At the moments when Imber paused to remember, Howkan translated and a clerk
reduced to writing. The court-room listened stolidly to each unadorned little
tragedy, till Imber told of a red-haired man whose eyes were crossed and whom he
had killed with a remarkably long shot. "Hell," said a man in the forefront of
the onlookers. He said it soulfully and sorrowfully. He was red-haired. "Hell,"
he repeated. "That was my brother Bill." And at regular intervals throughout the
session, his solemn "Hell" was heard in the court-room; nor did his comrades
check him, nor did the man at the table rap him to order. Imber's head drooped
once more, and his eyes went dull, as though a film rose up and covered them
from the world. And he dreamed as only age can dream upon the colossal futility
of youth. Later, Howkan roused him again, saying: "Stand up, O Imber. It be
commanded that thou tellest why you did these troubles, and slew these people,
and at the end journeyed here seeking the Law." Imber rose feebly to his feet
and swayed back and forth. He began to speak in a low and faintly rumbling
voice, but Howkan interrupted him. "This old man, he is damn crazy," he said in
English to the square-browed man. "His talk is foolish and like that of a
child." "We will hear his talk which is like that of a child," said the square-
browed man. "And we will hear it, word for word, as he speaks it. Do you
understand?" Howkan understood, and Imber's eyes flashed for he had witnessed
the play between his sister's son and the man in authority. And then began the
story, the epic of a bronze patriot which might well itself be wrought into
bronze for the generations unborn. The crowd fell strangely silent, and the
square-browed judge leaned head on hand and pondered his soul and the soul of
his race. Only was heard the deep tones of Imber, rhythmically alternating with
the shrill voice of the interpreter, and now and again, like the bell of the
Lord, the wondering and meditative "Hell" of the red-haired man. "I am Imber of
the Whitefish people." So ran the interpretation of Howkan, whose inherent
barbarism gripped hold of him, and who lost his mission culture and veneered
civilization as he caught the savage ring and rhythm of old Imber's tale. "My
father was Otsbaok, a strong man. The land was warm with sunshine and gladness
when I was a boy. The people did not hunger after strange things, nor hearken to
new voices, and the ways of their fathers were their ways. The women found favor
in the eyes of the young men, and the young men looked upon them with content.
Babes hung at the breasts of the women, and they were heavy-hipped with increase
of the tribe. Men were men in those days. In peace and plenty, and in war and
famine, they were men. "At that time there was more fish in the water than now,
and more meat in the forest. Our dogs were wolves, warm with thick hides and
hard to the frost and storm. And as with our dogs, so with us, for we were
likewise hard to the frost and storm. And when the Pellys came into our land we
slew them and were slain. For we were men, we Whitefish, and our fathers and our
fathers' fathers had fought against the Pellys and determined the bounds of the
land. "As I say, with our dogs, so with us. And one day came the first white
man. He dragged himself, so, on hand and knee, in the snow. And his skin was
stretched tight, and his bones were sharp beneath. Never was such a man, we
thought, and we wondered of what strange tribe he was, and of its land. And he
was weak, most weak, like a little child, so that we gave him a place by the
fire, and warm furs to lie upon, and we gave him food as little children are
given food. "And with him was a dog, large as three of our dogs, and very weak.
The hair of this dog was short, and not warm, and the tail was frozen so that
the end fell off. And this strange dog we fed, and bedded by the fire, and
fought from it our dogs, which else would have killed him. And what of the moose
meat and the sun-dried salmon, the man and dog took strength to themselves; and
what of the strength, they became big and unafraid. And the man spoke loud words
and laughed at the old men and young men, and looked boldly upon the maidens.
And the dog fought with our dogs, and for all of his short hair and softness
slew three of them in one day. "When we asked the man concerning his people he
said, 'I have many brothers,' and laughed in a way that was not good. And when
he was in his full strength he went away, and with him went Noda, daughter to
the chief. First, after that, was one of our bitches brought to pup. And never
was there such a breed of dogs,--big-headed, thick-jawed, and short-haired, and
helpless. Well do I remember my father, Otsbaok, a strong man. His face was
black with anger at such helplessness, and he took a stone, so, and so, and
there was no more helplessness. And two summers after that came Noda back to us
with a man-child in the hollow of her arm. "And that was the beginning. Came a
second white man, with short-haired dogs, which he left behind him when he went.
And with him went six of our strongest dogs, for which, in trade, he had given
Koo-So-Tee, my mother's brother, a wonderful pistol that fired with great
swiftness six times. And Koo-So-Tee was very big, what of the pistol, and
laughed at our bows and arrows. 'Woman's things,' he called them, and went forth
against the bald-face grizzly, with the pistol in his hand. Now it be known that
it is not good to hunt the bald-face with a pistol, but how were we to know? and
how was Koo-So-Tee to know? So he went against the bald-face, very brave, and
fired the pistol with great swiftness six times; and the bald-face but grunted
and broke in his breast like it were an egg and like honey from a bee's nest
dripped the brains of Koo-So-Tee upon the ground. He was a good hunter, and
there was no one to bring meat to his squaw and children. And we were bitter,
and we said 'That which for the white men is well, is for us not well.' And this
be true. There be many white men and fat, but their ways have made us few and
lean. "Came the third white man, with great wealth of all manner of wonderful
foods and things. And twenty of our strongest dogs he took from us in trade.
Also, what of presents and great promises, ten of our young hunters did he take
with him on a journey which fared no man knew where. It is said they died in the
snow of the Ice Mountains where man has never been, or in the Hills of Silence
which are beyond the edge of the earth. Be that as it may, dogs and young
hunters were seen never again by the Whitefish people. "And more white men came
with the years, and ever, with pay and presents, they led the young men away
with them. And sometimes the young men came back with strange tales of dangers
and toils in the lands beyond the Pellys, and sometimes they did not come back.
And we said: 'If they be unafraid of life, these white men, it is because they
have many lives; but we be few by the Whitefish, and the young men shall go away
no more.' But the young men did go away; and the young women went also; and we
were very wroth. "It be true, we ate flour, and salt pork, and drank tea which
was a great delight; only, when we could not get tea, it was very bad and we
became short of speech and quick of anger. So we grew to hunger for the things
the white men brought in trade. Trade! trade! all the time was it trade! One
winter we sold our meat for clocks that would not go, and watches with broken
guts, and files worn smooth, and pistols without cartridges and worthless. And
then came famine, and we were without meat, and two-score died ere the break of
spring. "'Now are we grown weak,' we said; 'and the Pellys will fall upon us,
and our bounds be overthrown.' But as it fared with us, so had it fared with the
Pellys, and they were too weak to come against us. "My father, Otsbaok, a strong
man, was now old and very wise. And he spoke to the chief, saying: 'Behold, our
dogs be worthless. No longer are they thick-furred and strong, and they die in
the frost and harness. Let us go into the village and kill them, saving only the
wolf ones, and these let us tie out in the night that they may mate with the
wild wolves of the forest. Thus shall we have dogs warm and strong again.' "And
his word was harkened to, and we Whitefish became known for our dogs, which were
the best in the land. But known we were not for ourselves. The best of our young
men and women had gone away with the white men to wander on trail and river to
far places. And the young women came back old and broken, as Noda had come, or
they came not at all. And the young men came back to sit by our fires for a
time, full of ill speech and rough ways, drinking evil drinks and gambling
through long nights and days, with a great unrest always in their hearts, till
the call of the white men came to them and they went away again to the unknown
places. And they were without honor and respect, jeering the old-time customs
and laughing in the faces of chief and shamans. "As I say, we were become a weak
breed, we Whitefish. We sold our warm skins and furs for tobacco and whiskey and
thin cotton things that left us shivering in the cold. And the coughing sickness
came upon us, and men and women coughed and sweated through the long nights, and
the hunters on trail spat blood upon the snow. And now one, and now another,
bled swiftly from the mouth and died. And the women bore few children, and those
they bore were weak and given to sickness. And other sicknesses came to us from
the white men, the like of which we had never known and could not understand.
Smallpox, likewise measles, have I heard these sicknesses named, and we died of
them as die the salmon in the still eddies when in the fall their eggs are
spawned and there is no longer need for them to live. "And yet, and here be the
strangeness of it, the white men come as the breath of death; all their ways
lead to death, their nostrils are filled with it; and yet they do not die.
Theirs the whiskey, and tobacco, and short-haired dogs; theirs the many
sicknesses, the smallpox and measles, the coughing and mouth-bleeding; theirs
the white skin, and softness to the frost and storm; and theirs the pistols that
shoot six times very swift and are worthless. And yet they grow fat on their
many ills, and prosper, and lay a heavy hand over all the world and tread
mightily upon its peoples. And their women, too, are soft as little babes, most
breakable and never broken, the mothers of men. And out of all this softness,
and sickness, and weakness, come strength, and power, and authority. They be
gods, or devils, as the case may be. I do not know. What do I know, I, old Imber
of the Whitefish? Only do I know that they are past understanding, these white
men, far-wanderers and fighters over the earth that they be. "As I say, the meat
in the forest became less and less. It be true, the white man's gun is most
excellent and kills a long way off; but of what worth the gun, when there is no
meat to kill? When I was a boy on the Whitefish there was moose on every hill,
and each year came the caribou uncountable. But now the hunter may take the
trail ten days and not one moose gladden his eyes, while the caribou uncountable
come no more at all. Small worth the gun, I say, killing a long way off, when
there be nothing to kill. [Illustration: "ALL THEIR WAYS LEAD TO DEATH" FROM A
PAINTING BY MAYNARD DIXON.] "And I, Imber, pondered upon these things, watching
the while the Whitefish, and the Pellys, and all the tribes of the land,
perishing as perished the meat of the forest. Long I pondered. I talked with the
shamans and the old men who were wise. I went apart that the sounds of the
village might not disturb me, and I ate no meat, so that my belly should not
press upon me and make me slow of eye and ear. I sat long and sleepless in the
forest, wide-eyed for the sign, my ears patient and keen for the word that was
to come. And I wandered alone in the blackness of night to the river bank, where
was wind-moaning and sobbing of water, and where I sought wisdom from the ghosts
of old shamans in the trees and dead and gone. "And in the end, as in a vision,
came to me the short-haired and detestable dogs, and the way seemed plain. By
the wisdom of Otsbaok, my father and a strong man, had the blood of our own
wolf-dogs been kept clean, wherefore had they remained warm of hide and strong
in the harness. So I returned to my village and made oration to the men. 'This
be a tribe, these white men,' I said. 'A very large tribe, and doubtless there
is no longer meat in their land, and they are come among us to make a new land
for themselves. But they weaken us, and we die. They are a very hungry folk.
Already has our meat gone from us, and it were well, if we would live, that we
deal by them as we have dealt by their dogs.' "And further oration I made,
counseling fight. And the men of the Whitefish listened, and some said one
thing, and some another, and some spoke of other and worthless things, and no
man made brave talk of deeds and war. But while the young men were weak as water
and afraid, I watched that the old men sat silent, and that in their eyes fires
came and went. And later, when the village slept and no one knew, I drew the old
men away into the forest and made more talk. And now we were agreed, and we
remembered the good young days, and the free land, and the times of plenty, and
the gladness and sunshine; and we called ourselves brothers, and swore great
secrecy, and a mighty oath to cleanse the land of the evil breed that had come
upon it. It be plain we were fools, but how were we to know, we old men of the
Whitefish? "And to hearten the others, I did the first deed. I kept guard upon
the Yukon till the first canoe came down. In it were two white men, and when I
stood upright upon the bank and raised my hand they changed their course and
drove in to me. And as the man in the bow lifted his head, so, that he might
know wherefore I wanted him, my arrow sang through the air straight to his
throat, and he knew. The second man, who held paddle in the stern, had his rifle
half to his shoulder when the first of my three spear-casts smote him. "'These
be the first,' I said, when the old men had gathered to me. 'Later we will bind
together all the old men of all the tribes, and after that the young men who
remain strong, and the work will become easy.' "And then the two dead white men
we cast into the river. And of the canoe, which was a very good canoe, we made a
fire, and a fire, also, of the things within the canoe. But first we looked at
the things, and they were pouches of leather which we cut open with our knives.
And inside these pouches were many papers, like that from which thou hast read,
O Howkan, with markings on them which we marveled at and could not understand.
Now, I am become wise, and I know them for the speech of men as thou hast told
me." A whisper and buzz went around the court-room when Howkan finished
interpreting the affair of the canoe, and one man's voice spoke up: "That was
the lost '91 mail, Peter James and Delaney bringing it in and last spoken at Le
Barge by Matthews going out." The clerk scratched steadily away, and another
paragraph was added to the history of the North. "There be little more," Imber
went on slowly. "It be there on the paper, the things we did. We were old men,
and we did not understand. Even I, Imber, do not now understand. Secretly we
slew, and continued to slay, for with our years we were crafty and we had
learned the swiftness of going without haste. When white men came among us with
black looks and rough words, and took away six of the young men with irons
binding them helpless, we knew we must slay wider and farther. And one by one we
old men departed up river and down to the unknown lands. It was a brave thing.
Old we were, and unafraid, but the fear of far places is a terrible fear to men
who are old. "So we slew, without haste, and craftily. On the Chilkoot and in
the Delta we slew, from the passes to the sea, wherever the white men camped or
broke their trails. It be true, they died, but it was without worth. Ever did
they come over the mountains, ever did they grow and grow, while we, being old,
became less and less. I remember, by the Caribou Crossing, the camp of a white
man. He was a very little white man, and three of the old men came upon him in
his sleep. And the next day I came upon the four of them. The white man alone
still breathed, and there was breath in him to curse me once and well before he
died. "And so it went, now one old man, and now another. Sometimes the word
reached us long after of how they died, and sometimes it did not reach us. And
the old men of the other tribes were weak and afraid, and would not join with
us. As I say, one by one, till I alone was left. I am Imber, of the Whitefish
people. My father was Otsbaok, a strong man. There are no Whitefish now. Of the
old men I am the last. The young men and young women are gone away, some to live
with the Pellys, some with the Salmons, and more with the white men. I am very
old, and very tired, and it being vain fighting the Law, as thou sayest, Howkan,
I am come seeking the Law." "O Imber, thou art indeed a fool," said Howkan. But
Imber was dreaming. The square-browed judge likewise dreamed, and all his race
rose up before him in a mighty phantasmagoria--his steel-shod, mail-clad race,
the law-giver and world-maker among the families of men. He saw it dawn red-
flickering across the dark forests and sullen seas; he saw it blaze, bloody and
red, to full and triumphant noon; and down the shaded slope he saw the blood-red
sands dropping into night. And through it all he observed the Law, pitiless and
potent, ever unswerving and ever ordaining, greater than the motes of men who
fulfilled it or were crushed by it, even as it was greater than he, his heart
speaking for softness. DOWN THE FLUME WITH THE SNEATH PIANO

BY

BAILEY MILLARD

Reprinted from _The Century Magazine_ by permission

I HAD halted at Camp Five to catch my breath. This flying down a Sierran lumber-
flume, scurrying through the heady air like another Phaeton, was too full of
thrills to be taken all in one gasp. I dropped limply into the rawhide-bottomed
chair under the awning in front of the big board shanty which was on stilts
beside the airy flume, and gazed on down the long, gleaming, tragic, watery way
to the next steep slide. Then I looked at the frail little flume-boat which had
borne Oram Sheets and me thus far on our hazardous journey to the valley.
Perhaps I shivered a bit at the prospect of more of this hair-raising adventure.
At any rate, Oram, the intrepid flume-herder, laughed, dug his picaroon into a
log, and asked:

"Sorry yeh come? Wal, it does git onto a man's nerve the first trip. Strange so
many brash ones like you wanter try, but few on 'em ever dast git in ag'in. But
I've be'n down so often." Then he peered about the cabin. "Looks like none o'
the boys was to home. Wish they was; they might git us up a little dinner. It's
jest twelve." He went inside the open door, and I heard him foraging about, the
shanty echoing hollowly to the clumping of his big boots. By and by his nasal
note was resumed:

"Come in, pardner! Here's a great find: a big can o' green gages an' a hunk o'
jerk an' a lot o' cold biscuits." Inside, with my legs under the greasy,
coverless table, I chewed the jerk like one who was determined to give his jaws
the benefit of strenuous physical culture, and listened while Oram rattled on,
with his mouth full of the sodden, half-baked biscuits. "You mightn't think it,"
said he, "but three years ago this here was the most scrumptious camp on the
hull flume. Ol' man Hemenway lived here then with his daughter Jess. She kep'
house fer him. Jess was a great gal. Every man along the flume, from Skyland to
Mill Flat, was in love with her. Shape? You couldn't beat that there gal for
figger if yeh was to round up every actress in the country. She had a pair o'
big round baby-blue eyes, an' was as pretty as any o' them there cigarette
picters. A little on the strawbary-blonde, but not too much red in her hair, an'
yet spunky as a badger when yeh teased her. "The boys down this way didn't have
much show. It looked like Jess had hit it off with Jud Brusie, a big, husky,
clean-lookin' chap up to the h'ist. Jud used ter send her down notes stuck in
sticks wedged inter the clamps, an' he used ter sneak down this way on Sundays
when he'd git a chanst. She'd meet him up to the Riffles there by that big bunch
o' yaller pines we passed. He didn't dast come down here nary time till ol' man
Hemenway he got laid up with a busted laig from slippin' off the trestle in the
snow. That there was Jud's show ter git in his fine work. Used ter bring down
deer-meat for the ol' man, an' sody-water from that there spoutin' spring up ter
Crazy Canon; an' it begun to look like Hemenway'd give in an' let him have her.
But he seemed to hold off. "The boys used ter nearly josh the life out o' Jud.
One fellow--his name was Phil Pettis--was skunkin' mean enough to read a note
Jud sent down oncet an' tell about it roun' Skyland; but that was the only time
any of 'em ever done anything like that, fer Jud jest laid fer Phil an' went
through him like a buzz-saw an' chucked him inter the flume. "No, it didn't kill
Phil, but he got tol'able well used up. His clothes was nearly all tore off, an'
his hands got some bruised where he caught on to the aidges before he got a holt
an' lifted himself out in a still place. He'd be'n all right only he got mixed
up with a string o' lumber that was a-comin' down, an' so he had to go to the
hospital. "One thing about Jess--she was a singer all right. I ain't never
heer'd ary one o' them there the-_ay_-ter gals that could beat her singin'. She
warbled like a lark with his belly full o' grubworms. It was wuth ridin' a clamp
from here to Mill Flat to hear her sing. She had a couple o' hymn-books an' a
stack o' them coon songs the newspapers gives away, an' I tell yeh, she'd sing
them there songs like she'd knowed 'em all her life. Picked out the tunes some
ways on a little string-thing like a sawed-off guitar. Sounds like muskeeters
hummin' aroun'. Yes, a mandy-linn--that's it. But that there mandy-linn didn't
soot her a little bit. She was crazy ter have a pianner. I heer'd her tell her
paw, who was aroun' ag'in workin' after his busted laig got well, she'd give ten
years o' her life for any ol' cheap pianner he could skeer up fer her. "'Wal,'
says he, 'how in tunket am I a-goin' ter git anything like that--thirty miles
off'n the road, an' nary way o' freightin' it up or down the canon to this
camp?' "'Couldn't yeh have it brung up to Skyland by the stage road,' asts she,
'an' then have it rafted down the flume? Jest a little one?' she asts very
earnest-like. "'Gee whittaker!' says he, laughin' all over. 'You'll be a-wantin'
'em to send yeh down a parlor-keer nex'.' "Then she gits hot in the collar an'
cries an' takes on, an' Jud, who was a-hangin' aroun', has to walk her up to the
Riffles; an' he must 'a' comforted her a heap, fer she comes back alone,
singin,' 'Nearer, my God, to Thee,' like a angel. "The' was a big spill up to
the Devil's Gate,--one o' them places back there where the flume hangs onto the
side o' the cliff, about half a mile above the bottom o' the gulch,--an' Jud
Brusie an' all hands has to work there three days an' nights ter git things
straightened out. Jud worked so derned hard, up all night an' hangin' on ter the
ropes he was let up an' down by till yeh'd think he was ready to drop, that the
soop'rintendent said he'd make Jud flume boss when he got back from Noo York,
where he was a-goin' fer a few months. The soop'rintendent--that's Mr. Sneath--
went over the hull flume with Jud a little while before he lit out for the East,
p'intin' things out ter him that he wanted did when he got back. I was down here
flume-herdin' at Five when him an' Jud come along in a dude-lookin' flume-boat,
rigged out in great style. I stopped 'em back there a ways with my picaroon,
when they sung out, an' they walked down here on the side planks. Jest as they
got near the camp the soop'rintendent he stopped like he'd struck a rotten plank
an' stared at the house. "'Who's that singin'?' says he. "'Miss. Hemenway,' says
Jud, proud-like. "'She's got an awful sweet voice,' says the ol' man. 'It
oughter be trained. She ought to go to a hot-house'--or something like that.
'Conservatory?' Yes, that's it. "'She's mighty anxious to l'arn,' says Jud. 'She
wants a pianner awful bad.' "'Does she?' says the soop'rintendent. 'She oughter
have one.' "When he come along to the house he says to Jess, who stuck her head
outer the door an' looked kinder skeer'd-like, says he, 'I wish yeh'd sing a few
songs fer me.' "Wal, yeh could see wal enough that Jess's knees was a-knockin'
together, but she tunes up her mandy-linn, scratches at the strings with a
little chip, an' gits started all right on 'Rock o' Ages,' an' gits to goin'
along kinder quavery-like fer a while, an' then she busts right inter, 'He'r dem
Bells,' so strong an' high an' wild that it takes the ol' man right out o' his
boots. "He claps his hands an' yells, 'Hooray! Give us another!' "Then she saws
along on, 'Gather at the River,' an' chops inter, 'All Coons Looks Alike ter
Me,' in a way to stop the mill. "Her paw stan's aroun' all the while, tickled t'
death an' smilin' all over. "'Wal,' says the soop'rintendent, when Jess she
stops ter git her wind, 'yer all right, Miss. Hemenway. Yer as full o' music as
a wind-harp in a tornado.' Then he says to her paw on the Q. T., 'If yeh was ter
let that gal go ter the city an' l'arn some o' them high-toned op'ry songs, yeh
wouldn't have to be picaroonin' lumber strings much longer.' "'Yes,' says
Hemenway, bloated up like a gobbler an' lookin' at Jess where she stan's with
her face red an' still a-puffin' for breath; 'an' she thinks she could l'arn
right here if she only had a pianner.' "'She'd oughter have one,' says Mr.
Sneath. 'I wish----' he says, an' then he breaks off like a busted log-chain.
'But we couldn't git it down here.' '"What's that?' asts Hemenway. "'We got a
pianner up to our place, an' Mrs. Sneath won't be a-fingerin' on it fer five
months. She's a-goin' East with me. If we could only git it down here an' back
all right. If the' 's only a road from Skyland down here or from Mill Flat up,
but the' ain't, so the' 's no use talkin'. Couldn't ship it down to the Flat an'
up on mule-back, or nothin', either; so I guess it can't be did.' "'Why not send
it down the flume?' asts Jess, timid-like. I could see she was jest crazy about
gittin' it. "'Oh, the flume is old, an' it's rotten in places, an' such a heavy
load might go through.' "'Why, it holds up the grub-boat all right,' says Jess
'Oh, if I could only have that pianner down here! I can play a little already,
an' I'd l'arn a lot. I'd practise eight hours a day.' "'How about gittin' the
meals?' asts Hemenway. "'Wal, I'd set up, then, an' practise all night,' says
she. "'I'm afeard that 'u'd be pretty hard on yer paw,' says Mr. Sneath,
smilin'. 'Wal, Jud, we got ter be goin'.' "So they gits inter their dude boat,
an' Jess she skips along after 'em, an' jest as they's about to ontie she yells
out to the soop'rintendent:

"'Cain't I have it? Cain't I have it? Cain't yeh send it down the flume? Please
say yeh will. I'll take the best kind o' keer of it. It sha'n't git a single
scratch.' "Mr. Sneath he looks at her a minute kinder tender-like, an' I knowed
them big eyes o' hern was a-doin' their work. Them big soft baby eyes would 'a'
drawed sap outer a dead log. "'Wal,' says he, 'we'll see. If Mrs. Sneath's
willin' I guess it'll be all right.' "'Thank you, thank you, thank you!' she
yells as the boat flies down the flume. "I seed Jud blow a kiss to her, an' I
knowed she was happy as a bird. She was a-singin' aroun' the shanty all day, an'
at supper she done nothin' but talk, talk, talk about that there pianner.
"'Don't be so awful gay, Miss. Hemenway,' says I, for I was afeard she might be
disapp'inted. 'Yeh ain't got it yet. Yeh know, Mr. Sneath's a' awful busy man,
an' he may fergit it.' "'Oh, he won't fergit! Jud'll poke him up on it,' says
she. 'An' I think I'll have it put right over there in that corner. No, that's
on the flume side, an' it might draw dampness there. Over there by the winder's
the place, an' plenty o' light, too. Wonder if they'll think to send down a
stool.' "I had to skin up to Skyland nex' day. Jud says the soop'rintendent has
to light out quicker'n he'd thought, but he didn't fergit about the pianner.
Mis' Sneath was as easy as greased skids, but Mr. Sneath he didn't know exactly.
He sends the pianner over to the warehouse there 'longside the flume an' has the
men slap together a stout boat to run her down in; but at the las' minute he
backs out. He was a-lookin' at the pianner standin' there in the warehouse, an'
he says to Jud, says he:

"'That there pianner has be'n in our family ever sence we was married. Marthy
allus sot a heap o' store by that pianner. It was my first present to her, an' I
know she thinks a hull lot of it, even if she don't seem ter keer. Trouble is,
she don't know what sendin' it down the flume means. Yeh see, it ain't like a
long string o' lumber--weight's all in one place, an' she might break through.
This flume ain't what it was thirteen years ago, yeh know.' "Jud he argies with
him, 'cos he knows Jess's heart'll be broke if she don't git the pianner; an'
after a while he thinks he's got it all fixed; but jest afore Sneath an' his
wife takes the stage he telaphones down to the warehouse to let the pianner stay
there till he comes back. Then he goes away, an' Jud is as down in the mouth as
if he'd run his fist ag'in' a band-saw. He mopes aroun' all day, an' he's afeard
to tell Jess; but as I was a-goin' back to Five that night, he tells me to break
it to her gentle-like an' say he'd done his best. Which I did. Wal, that gal
jest howls when I tells her, an' sobs an' sobs an' takes on like a baby coyote
with the croup. But her dad he quiets her at last. "Jud he hardly dasts to show
up on Sunday, but when he does, she won't look at him fer quite a while. Then
some o' that strawbary-blonde in her comes out in some o' the dernedest scoldin'
yeh ever heer'd. "'It's too bad, Jessie,' says he, 'but it ain't my fault. I
done my best. He backed out at the las' minute; he backed out, an' I couldn't do
no more than if a tree dropped on me. He backed out.' "After a while he takes
her off up the flume a piece, an' they stays there a long time, but she don't
seem satisfied much when she comes back. There is hell a-poppin' there for about
three days over that there pianner, an' the ol' man he gits so sick of it he
gives her warnin' he'll light out if she don't quit. Wal, she quiets down some
after that, but she makes Jud as mis'able as a treed coon fer over a week. She
keeps a-tryin' an' a-tryin' to git him to send the pianner down anyway. She
tells him she'll send it back afore the Sneaths gits home. "'He told me I could
have it; he promised me,' says she, 'he promised me, an' I'll never marry you
unless you send it down. You can do it; you're goin' to be boss, an' you know it
will be all right. I'll see that they ain't a scratch on it; an' you can put it
in the warehouse, an' they'll never know it's be'n away.' "An' so she keeps
a-teasin' an' a-teasin', till finally Jud he gits desperate. "'Oram,' says he to
me one day, 'Oram, you're an ol' flume man. What do you think o' runnin' that
pianner down to Five?' "I shakes my head. I likes the boy, an' I don't want ter
see him take sech big chances o' gittin' inter trouble. Somebody might tell
Sneath, an' then it might be all off about his bein' flume boss. Besides, nobody
had never run no pianner down no flume before, an' yeh couldn't tell what might
happen. "'D' yeh think, honest, Oram,' says he, 'the ol' flume's likely ter give
way anywheres?' "'No,' says I; 'she's strong as a railroad-track.' "'Wal, then,'
says he, 'I'm a-goin' to do it. You come down Sunday an' we'll take her out
afore anybody's out o' the bunk-house.' "I tries to argy him out of it, but he
won't listen. So Sunday, about five in the mornin', I goes up to Skyland, an' we
slides the big boat inter the flume an' gits the pianner onto the rollers, an'
't ain't much trouble to load her all right; fer, yer know, them big boats has
flat tops like decks, an' things sets up on top of 'em. But while we was a-doin'
that an' the boat is hitched tight to a stanchion 'longside o' the flume, the
water backs up behind so high that it looks as though the pianner is a-goin' ter
git wet. This skeers Jud, an' he seems to lose his head someways. "'Hustle up,
Oram!' says he, very nervous-like. 'The boat's crowdin' down so it won't let any
water past. Ontie that rope.' "I takes a good notice o' the pianner, an' I don't
like her looks, sittin' up there so high on that little deck. "'We oughter tie
her on good an' tight,' says I. "She's a upright, yeh see, an' she's as top-
heavy as a pile-driver. I was afeard she'd strike a low limb or somethin' an'
git smashed. So I goes to settle her a bit an' lay her down on her back an' tie
her on; but he says he don't know about that layin'-down business, an' declares
she'll ride all right. He speaks pretty sharp, too. So I gits a little huffy an'
onties the rope, an' we starts. "Wal, she don't go very fast at first, 'cos
she's heavy an' they ain't none too much water in front; but after a while we
comes to the Devil's Slide,--you remember the place,--an' we scoots down there
like the mill-tails o' hell. "'Gee-whiz!' says Jud. 'She's a-rockin' like a
teeter. I hope she'll stay on all right.' He was settin' back with me, behind
the pianner, an' we both tries to holt on to her an' keep her stiddy, but we
cain't do much more'n set down an' cuss haff the time, we're so afeard we'll git
throwed out. Wal, after we come to the foot of the slide, we breathes easy-like,
an' Jud he says it's all right, for that there was the wust place. For about
three miles the pianner set on that boat as stiddy as a church, an' from there
on down to Four it was pretty good sailin'. Of course we went a good deal faster
in the steep places than any other boat ever sent down the flume, because the
heft o' the thing, when she got started, was bound to make her fly, water or no
water. In a good many places we run ahead o' the stream, an' then in the quiet
spots the water would catch up to us an' back up behind us an' shove us along.
"Between Four an' Five there's a place we used ter call Cape Horn. The flume is
bracketed onto a cliff, yeh know, fer about a mile, an' it's a skeery place any
way yeh shoot it; yeh scoot aroun' them there sharp curves so lively, an' yeh
look down there four or five hundred feet inter the bottom o' the canon. That's
where yeh shut yer eyes. Yeh remember? Wal, when I sees Cape Horn ahead I gits a
little skeer'd when I thinks how she might rock. We run onto a place where I
could look away ahead, an' there, wavin' her apron or somethin', is a gal, an' I
knows it's Jess, out from Five to see the pianner come down. Jud he knows, too,
an' waves back. "We runs out onto the brackets, turns a sharp curve, an' she
begins to wabble an' stagger like a drunken man, floppin' back an' forth, an'
the strings an' things inside is a-hummin' an' a-drummin'. "'Slow her down!'
yells Jud. 'Slow her down, or we'll never git past the Horn!' "I claps on the
brake, but she's so heavy she don't pay no 'tention to it, though I makes smoke
'long them planks, I tell yer. She scoots ahead faster'n ever, an' bows to the
scenery, this way an' that, like she was crazy, an' a-hummin' harder than ever.
"'Slow her down! Ease her down!' hollers Jud, grittin' his teeth an' holdin'
onto her with all his hundred an' eighty pounds weight. But 't ain't no good. I
gits a holt oncet, but the water backs up behind us an' we goes a-scootin' down
on a big wave that sloshes out o' the flume on both sides an' sends us flyin'
toward that Horn fer further orders. "When we gits to the sharpest curve we
knows we're there all right. She wabbles on one side an' then on the other, so I
can see chunks o' sky ahead right under her. An' then, all of a sudden, she
gives a whoopin' big jump right off the top o' the boat, an' over the side o'
the flume she goes, her strings all a-singin' like mad, an' sailin' down four
hundred feet. Jud had a holt of her before she dropped, an' if I hadn't 'a'
grabbed him he'd 'a' gone over, too. "You might not believe it, pardner, but we
run a quarter of a mile down that there flume before we hears her strike.
Jeroosalem! What a crash! I ever heer'd one o' them big redwoods that made half
so much noise when she dropped. How she did roar! An' I tell yeh what was
strange about that there noise: it seemed like all the music that everybody had
ever expected to play on that pianner for the nex' hundred years come a-boomin'
out all to oncet in one great big whoop-hurray that echered up an' down that
canon fer half an hour. "'We've lost somethin',' says I, cheerful-like, fer I
thinks the' 's no use cryin' over spilt pianners. "But Jud he never says
nothin',--jest sets there like he was froze plumb stiff an' couldn't stir a
eyelid--sets there, starin' straight ahead down the flume. Looks like his face
is caught in the air and held that way. "Of course, now our load's gone, the
brake works all right, an' I hooks a-holt onto the side about a hundred feet
from where Jess stands like a marble statute, lookin' down inter the gulch.
"'Come on, Jud,' says I, layin' my hand onto his arm soft-like; 'we gits out
here.' "He don't say nothin', but tries to shake me off. I gits him out at last,
an' we goes over to where poor Jess stands, stiff an' starin' down inter the
gulch. When she hears our feet on the side planks, she starts up an' begins to
beller like a week-old calf; an' that fetches Jud outer his trance for a while,
an' he puts his arm aroun' her an' he helps her back along the walk till we
comes to a place where we gits down an' goes over to view the wreck. "Great
snakes, pardner, but it was a sight! The pianner had flew down an' lit onto a
big, flat rock, an' the' wasn't a piece of her left as big as that there plate.
There was all kinds o' wires a-wrigglin' aroun' on the ground an' a-shinin' in
the sun, an' the' was white keys an' black keys an' the greatest lot o' them
little woolly things that strikes the strings all mixed up with little bits o'
mahogany an' nuts an' bolts an' little scraps o' red flannel an' leather, an'
pegs an' bits o' iron that didn't look as if it had ever been any part o' the
machine. It was the dernedest mess! I picked up somethin' Jess said was a pedal,
--a little piece o' shiny iron about as long as that,--'n' that was the only
thing that seemed to have any shape left to it. The litter didn't make any pile
at all--jest a lot o' siftin' sawdust-stuff scattered aroun' on the rocks. "'She
struck tol'able hard,' says I, lookin' at Jud. But he don't say nothin'; jest
stan's over there on the side o' the rock an' looks as if he'd like to jump off
another fifty feet the' was there. "'Don't take it like that, Jud,' says Jess,
grabbin' holt o' him an' not payin' any 'tention to my bein' there. 'Cry, cuss,
swear--anything, but don't be so solemn-like. It's my fault, Juddie dear--all my
fault. Can yeh ever, ever fergive me? Yeh said yeh didn't think it was safe, an'
I kep' a-goadin' yeh to it; an' now----' She broke out a-blubberin' an'
a-bellerin' again, an' he puts his arm aroun' her an' smiles, an' says soft-
like:

"'It don't matter much. I can raise the money an' buy a new one fer Mis' Sneath.
How much do they cost?' says he. "'Oh, I dunno! Five hundred dollars, I think.
It's an awful lot o' money!' "'Wal, I got three-fifty saved up,--you know what
fer,--an' I can raise the rest an' put a new pianner in the place o' that one,'
says he. "He looks at the wreck, an' fer the first time I sees his eyes is jest
a little damp. "They didn't either of 'em seem to take any notice o' me, an' I
didn't feel that I counted, nohow. "'An' we cain't git married,' says Jud,
sorrowful-like, 'fer ever so long. There'll be nothin' to house-keep on till I
can save up some more.' "'Yes, we can, too,' says she. 'I don't keer if yeh
ain't got so much as a piece o' bale-rope.' "'But yer paw?' "'I don't keer,'
says she, very hard-like, a-stampin' her foot. 'He can like it or lump it.'
"Wal, I sneaks away an' leaves 'em there, an' by an' by they comes up to where I
sets on top o' the boat, an' Jud isn't so plumb gloomy as I thinks he'd be. "Him
an' her goes down ter Fresno nex' day an' buys one o' that same identical make
o' pianners an' has it shipped up on the first freight-wagon to Skyland. An'
they puts it inter the warehouse, an' there she stands till Mr. Sneath comes
home with his wife. "When Mis' Sneath she sees the pianner brung inter her house
she don't notice any difference fer a while; but one day she sets down ter play,
an' she pounds out a few music, an' then she gives a jump an' looks all over the
machine an' she says, 'Good Lord!' An' Sneath he comes in, an' they has a great
time over how the' 's be'n sech a change in that pianner. She finally makes up
her mind it's a bran'-new one, an' sends fer Jud an' asts him what he knows
about it. An' he cain't lie a little bit, so he up an' tells her that her
pianner is all inter sawdust an' scrap-iron down on the rocks, an' that this is
a new one that he owes a hundred an' fifty dollars on down ter Fresno. "Then she
busts out a-laughin', an' says:

"'Why, that old tin-pan! I'm glad it flew the flume. It wasn't wuth twenty
dollars. I got a noo grand pianner on the way here that I ordered in Noo York.
I'll make this here one a weddin' present to you an' Jess.' "And the
soop'rintendent he writes out his check an' sends it down to Fresno to pay off
the hundred an' fifty, an' when the weddin' it comes off he gives 'em a set o'
chiny dishes besides. "Jud's flume boss now, an' Jess she plays that pianner an'
sings like a bird. When we gits down ter Mill Flat I'll show yeh their house.
It's a white one up on the side o' the hill, jest across the gulch from the
mill. "Wal, yeh had all the grub yeh want, pardner? Say, ain't them green gages
sour? They sets yer teeth on aidge all right. An' I couldn't find the boys'
sugar-can. If yer full up, I guess we'd better git inter the boat." I took my
seat behind Oram and a particularly offensive pipe he had just lighted. Looking
down the long, swift-running, threatening flume, I shuddered; for since Oram's
recital the native hue of my resolution had been "sicklied o'er with the pale
cast of thought." I remarked that if he saw any of those Cape Horn curves ahead
to let me know and I would get out and walk. "Don't yeh be skeer'd by what I
told yeh," said he. "Yeh got a pretty fair-sized head, but yeh ain't quite so
top-heavy as Mis' Sneath's big upright. An', besides, the' ain't no more Cape
Horn on this flume; they calls that place Pianner P'int now." THE CONTUMACY OF
SARAH L. WALKER

BY

MIRIAM MICHELSON

Reprinted from _Munsey's Magazine_ of April, 1904 by permission

"THE BOARD will now pass to consideration of the case of Mrs.--Mrs. Walker." The
president looked from the report in front of her to the superintendent sitting
opposite. The Rev. Alexander McCaleb rose slowly to his feet. "I regret
exceedingly," he said, "to have to report this case to the board. I need not say
that if it had been possible to convince Mrs. Walker of the error of her ways,
no pains or time would have been spared. But I have done all that I could. Mrs.
Walker persists. She--ah!--she flouts all authority, and--ah!--sets such an
example of rebellious conduct that I fear the discipline of the home may be
gravely compromised." The president knitted her pretty, dark brows. Her hair was
white, with a soft, youthful whiteness that haloed her head as if it was a joke
of old Time's. She was new to her office, and was conscious of a critical
atmosphere that subtly underlined the formality of the proceedings--an official
formality that made the meeting of the lady managers of this Old People's Home a
formidable affair. "I see no record of any case of disciplining heretofore," she
said, troubled. "There is no precedent by which the chair can be----"

"But there are the by-laws," suggested the superintendent. He reached over to
his own desk, and read from a pamphlet that had lain open there: "If any inmate
of the home shall persistently and willfully disobey the rules, the
superintendent shall report such case to the board of managers. If, after full
and complete investigation, and a notice to that effect having been duly served,
said inmate shall continue to persist in contumacy, the board is by a majority
vote empowered to expel." A little hush fell upon the assemblage at this
invocation of its dread powers. "It seems rather hard on the old bodies, doesn't
it?" the president was encouraged to remark. "But it is plainly stated in the
by-laws," said the recording secretary, a bright-eyed, business-like matron.
"And dear Mr. McCaleb is so patient and tactful that it is seldom necessary,"
remarked the single member of this week's visiting committee. "I thank you, Mrs.
Davis." The superintendent bowed in his stateliest manner. "I do my best--I try
always to do my best. Old people are trying, we all know." The president looked
up from her perusal of the by-laws. "Suppose we have the old lady in," she said.
"Mr. McCaleb, will you send for Mrs. Walker?" The old lady held her head
haughtily as she walked into the handsomely furnished office. The president,
mindful of her official capacity, looked severely upon Mrs. Walker--Sarah
Lucinda Walker, according to the cramped signature of the home's register,
widow, native of Maine, aged sixty-seven on her entrance into the home five
years ago. And Mrs. Walker--a miracle of aged neatness, trim, straight, little,
in her somber black and immaculate cap--looked severely back. "Be seated, Mrs.
Walker," said the president. "Thank you." Mrs. Walker crossed with a formal
"Good morning, ladies," and took the chair indicated. "Now, Mr. McCaleb, if you
please----" said the president. The superintendent rose. "Ladies," he began with
a solemnity that made the offender quake within, though outwardly she was calm
as the president herself, "it is with positive pain that I have to report to you
the case of Mrs. Sarah Lucinda Walker. It is now fully three months since I
began to labor with her--three months since I warned her of this very thing that
has come to pass, an investigation by your honorable board. On the 9th of
January"--he glanced methodically at a note-book--"I sent her a copy of the by-
laws, with the section referring to insubordination underscored in red ink. On
the 23d I made a personal call upon her, and sought to convince her how
impossible it was that such conduct could be tolerated. On February 7th I
publicly reprimanded her. On the 13th--five days ago--I informed her that, after
considering it prayerfully, I had laid the matter before your honorable body,
and that she should hold herself in readiness to be summoned before you to meet
the following charges:

"First, insubordination; second, breaking Rule VIII of the house regulations;
third, taking food from the table; fourth, disturbing neighbors in early
morning; and fifth, defacing the building." Mr. McCaleb took his seat. The
shocked gaze of the board bent itself upon the criminal. The bad little old
lady's far-sighted eyes swept insolently past them all and met the president's--
twenty years younger than her own. "Do you like birds, ma'am?" she asked,
herself in an eager, bird-like way. And then, without waiting for an answer, she
went on: "I love 'em--anything that's got wings. Old Cap'n Walker used to say,
'Sary Lucindy, they was a moughty fine ornithologist spiled when God A'mighty
made you a woman 'stead of a man.' He was a free-spoken man, Cap'n Walker, not
so pious-mouthed as some, but he had charity in his soul, which is more than
some others has." She swept a superbly disdainful look toward the Rev. McCaleb.
The recording secretary tapped reprovingly with her pencil, but the president
only listened. "Now, ma'am, we ain't paupers, we old folks. Every one of us, as
you know, has paid our thousand dollars in. An' we ain't bad children as needs
disciplinin'; an' they's no use treatin' grandmothers an' great-grandmothers as
though they was. It's in me to love birds, an' no 'mount of rules and
regulations is goin' to change me. My canary bird died the same year Cap'n
Walker saved every other soul on board his ship and went down alone to the
bottom with her. Since then I've sort o' adopted the sparrers. Why, haven't I
spent every afternoon through the summer out in the park a-feedin' them my
lunch? An' now that winter's come, d'ye think I'd have the face to desert them?
"'Not one of them is forgotten before God'--do you remember, ma'am? One of 'em
seemed to be in the early winter. It was before my rheumatism got so bad. I was
out in the park the afternoon the first snow fell, an' this poor little crittur
with a wing broke kep' a trailin' an' chirpin' an' scuttlin' in front o' me.
It'd fell out o' the nest; hardly covered with feathers, it was. I picked it up
an' carried it to my room in my apron. Poor little mite--how it fluttered an'
struggled! I kep' it overnight in my spool-box. In the mornin' I fed it; by noon
the sun come out, an' I let it out on the window-sill, where I keep my house
plants; just a bit o' musk--the cap'n liked musk--an' a pot o' bergamot. Do you
know, ma'am, that little thing was that contented by the end of the week that I
could leave the windows open an' nary a wing's stroke away would it go? That was
in December, 'fore it got to be known that I kep' a bird in my room. That mild
spell we had 'fore Christmas it did fly away one morning, but at sundown there
it was back again; an' when it came on to snow that night I felt same's I used
to 'tween voyages, when I could hear how the ocean'd get lashed to a fury, an'
Cap'n Walker'd be fast asleep safe beside me. "Of course it was a pity that when
the bird came back it showed others the way--but wasn't it cute of it, ma'am?
An' wasn't it just like a lot o' children hangin' 'round at maple-syrup time?
They did make a clatter an' a racket in the early mornin' when I wouldn't be up
an' they'd be ready for breakfast. But wasn't it for all the world like children
with empty little stummicks an' chatterin' tongues? When Mis' Pearson complained
of me an' the noise, I didn't take it kind of her. Take food from the table?
Course I did. But it was my own lunch, that I'd a right to go hungry for ef I
wanted to, an' nobody's affair. "But I tell you, ma'am, one day--it was that day
Mr. McCaleb sent me that printed notice, an' everybody on my floor see it comin'
an' knew it was something shameful an' legal--that evening I tried honestly to
keep 'em out. I pulled down the shade--it was a bitter cold day, a regular
blizzard blowing--an' I sat with my back to the window an' tried to read my
Bible while them birds jest shrieked themselves hoarse outside. Well, guess
where that Bible opened to! 'Yea, the sparrow hath found a house and the swallow
a nest for herself where she may lay her young.' That was a message, ma'am, a
straight, sure message. I opened the window an' scattered their bread-crumbs out
on the sill, which I had made jest the least bit wider for them--that's what he
calls 'defacin' the buildin'.' After that, I told Mr. McCaleb flat-footed that
if he had the heart to starve them innocent critturs in the dead o' winter, it
was more than I had. I told him if he'd wait till spring, I'd promise never to
open the window that faces south after that; but till they could shift for
themselves, I'd shift for them. That's all. Thank _you_, ma'am, for letting me
have my say." She smiled into the president's soft eyes, and rose, looking like
a trim, saucy, gray-haired sparrow about to take flight. The president's smile
started back to her, but on the way it had to pass the recording secretary, the
visiting committee, and the Rev. Alexander McCaleb. By the time it had made the
journey it was shorn of half its sympathetic understanding. "You admit then,
Mrs. Walker, that you have broken the rule against having pets in the room?" the
president asked with gravity. "It is a necessary rule. Fancy what would be the
condition of the place if a lady in No. 117 had a tame sparrow, a gentleman in
No. 120 a monkey, his neighbor a spaniel, the lady across the way a cat, and so
on! I appreciate--we all do, and Mr. McCaleb more than all of us--how tender and
charitable a nature yours is, but"--she looked at the recording secretary to
gain courage--"but we simply must enforce the rules. I know so good a
housekeeper as you must have been will understand this, and agree with me when I
say that such a disciplinarian as Captain Walker no doubt was--unfortunately, I
never had the pleasure of his acquaintance--would have been the first to counsel
you to obey the rules. Won't you think it over from our point of view, Mrs.
Walker, when you go back to your room? Do! Good afternoon." It was a very
dejected Sarah Lucinda Walker that returned to her room. Her depression was
noted and audibly commented upon by Mrs. Pearson, her next-door neighbor and
arch-enemy. In fact, the whole corridor was alive with the news of her defeat.
At the lunch-table it was the sole topic of conversation, and in the library old
Colonel Rockwell--in the pauses of a quavering rendition of "Rocked in the
Cradle of the Deep"--bet Mr. Patterson three of the cigars his nephew always
sent him on Fridays that Mrs. Walker, being a woman of spirit, would not yield
even though the ultimatum were expulsion. Mrs. Walker heard of the wager, of
course, that afternoon. They were a hundred or more antiquated and unseaworthy
vessels, all anchored in a semi-genteel haven; and from morning till night, till
sun should cease for them to shine and water to flow they had nothing to do but
to listen to the whispering tide that told of the great ocean of life beyond, or
to gossip among themselves of their own voyages dead and done. The incorrigible
Mrs. Walker's spotless little room, with its bag of dried crusts on the window-
sill, saved for her pet, became the storm center that afternoon. Every old lady
who could possibly claim acquaintance called to inquire her intentions; every
old gentleman leaned hard upon his cane as he lifted his hat to her in the halls
with the deference due a gallant rebel. They loved a rebel, these old children,
at the end of their lives fallen again into the domain of "you must" and "you
must not." Sarah Lucinda Walker's world rocked beneath her. She intended, she
believed, to obey the rules, to cast off the one creature on earth to which she
could still play Lady Bountiful; to shut her hospitable window and her loving
old heart on all these fluttering, visiting strangers who had heard of her
generosity, and with every hour carried the news of it further. She intended all
this, but when the time came she did simply as old Colonel Rockwell had wagered
she would. She opened wide her windows and fed the hungry throng that whirred
about her, scattering crumbs and floating feathers over the immaculate marble of
Mr. McCaleb's front door-step. A knock at the door brought her to her senses.
She put a withered little old hand, very like a sparrow's claw, upon the window-
sash to shut it hastily, and then, too proud to deceive, turned boldly to meet
her fate. Mrs. Pearson, on the lookout at her half-open door saw the official-
looking document handed to her. "It's her notice to leave," she said in an awed
whisper to herself. In the face of so great a calamity she felt, not triumph,
but a shocked sense of loss, of self-reproach. Five minutes after she was in her
enemy's room. "You mustn't--you mustn't cry, dear Mrs. Walker," she sobbed,
putting her arms about the slender old shoulders. "Am I crying?" the little old
lady answered. "I can't help it--I'm so happy!" "Happy!" Mrs. Pearson's dazed
old eyes turned bewildered from the envelope with the home's letterhead on it to
the bird-like creature in her arms. "And you've got your notice to leave?" "Did
you think it was that? So did I for a minute, an' it 'most killed me. But I
opened it, an' found a note from the president--that dear, dear president! She
wants to know if I'll take care of her summer cottage till the spring comes.
An', Marthy Pearson, they's chickens up there--fancy breeds--a whole yard of 'em
--an' I'm to have the feedin' of 'em. Ain't it enough to make a body cry for
joy? Say, Marthy, would you--would you mind feedin' the sparrers?--only on the
very stormiest days--McCaleb would never suspect you, an' spring's near!"
BREAKING THROUGH

BY

W. C. MORROW

Reprinted from _Success Magazine_ of September, 1906 by permission

"RAY," SAID his mother, whom he shyly and secretly worshipped, without her ever
suspecting the least of it beneath his cautious reserve and occasional outbursts
of temper, "my son, I hope you will remember, tonight. You are nearly a man."
She was a wise woman, and said it kindly and meant it well; but his face flamed,
his eyes hardened, and he sullenly walked away. Mrs. Gilbert sighed, and went
about the preparations for the young people's party which her daughters, aged
sixteen and eighteen, were to give that evening. She could not foresee what her
son would do. Would her gentle warning, filled with the tender pride of a
mother's love for her one man-child, drive him with his dog to the woods,
whither many a time before this day a word less pointed had sent him, there to
live for a week or longer at a time, in a manner that he had never disclosed?--
or would the disjointed thing within him which harried his somber, lonely life
force him in a blind moment to make a disgraceful scene at the gathering? She
prayed that neither would happen, and that the sunshine fighting for egress
through his darkness would come forth soft and genial and very fine and sweet,
as it did sometimes, and always unaccountably.... The worst had happened at the
party. No doubt it was intolerable,--but not so bad as when (he was then only
four) he had tried to kill a boy for lying about him and was whipped mercilessly
by his father,--for here, in the library, he was sitting before Mr. Gilbert, who
was pale and whose eyes had a deep, inscrutable look. He was a large and
powerful man, and had a genial nature, with force and sternness. The lad had
never seen him looking thus, and so evidently guarding a prisoner, and the boy
felt a strange weight within. Whatever had happened must have left a shadow on
the assemblage, for, though faint sounds came through the closed doors, they
were somewhat lacking in the robustness of youth. Ray did not deign an effort to
remember. More than that, he hoped that it never would come back, for it might
be disturbing to his solitudes. Of his attempts to remember the attack on the
boy ten years ago, there had never come any result but the recollection of a
wholly disconnected event,--when he was enveloped in a swirl of flame and smoke
from a fierce grass fire, and had to fight his way through to life. He did not
try to think what his father's purpose was in holding him a prisoner tonight.
Was it to give him a lecture? Pshaw! The beautiful, peaceful woods would make
him forget that child's-play, and he would steal away to them with Cap this very
night, as soon as all were asleep. Thus, motionless and in silence, sat he and
his father, seemingly through an endless, aching time. After a while the guests
quietly left. His sisters omitted their customary good night to their father.
All sounds from the servants ended. Then entered his mother, uncommonly pale,
and in silence looked from her son to her husband. She was small and dainty, and
very, very pretty, the boy reflected. It was a pity that her bright eyes should
be dim tonight and her sweet mouth drawn. She looked worn and as though she
dreaded something. "Are you ready?" Mr. Gilbert asked, regarding her fixedly.
Her lip trembled, but there came a flash from her eyes. "Do you really mean it?"
she asked. "Certainly. It must be done." "My dear, dear, he's too large for----"

"He'll never be too large for it so long as he is a boor and coward, insults our
guests, scandalizes us all, shames his sisters, and treats his parents with open
scorn. He won't try to be like other people and accept his world as he finds it.
His inordinate conceit is a disease. It is eating up his own life and making our
lives miserable. We will cure it." He had spoken calmly, but with a low
vibration of tone; and as he came to his feet he looked very tall and terrible.
Ray's blood began to rise, and as he looked about for something undefined he
felt the heat and smelled the smoke of the grass fire of ten years ago. He knew
he was a coward. That was the shame and the curse of his life. He did not think
it had always been so, but believed it had come about gradually. At first he had
not minded the whippings that other boys gave him because of his temper and his
physical inadequacy, for he had invited the punishment; but when they all
learned that his fighting spirit had weakened, that they could whip him easily,
that they need not wait for provocation, and that he would never tell, they
bullied and hounded and beat him until he had come to know a craven, sordid
fear, which spread from the boys to the whole terrible world in which the
masculine entity must fight for a place. "I am ready," said Mrs. Gilbert, trying
to hide a sigh. "Come," Mr. Gilbert ordered the boy, looking at him for the
first time in two hours. The boy quailed before that look, the most dreadful
thing he had ever seen. It made him numb and sick, and when he rose he
staggered; for, though tall, he was slender and had little strength. The weight
on his chest became a pain and fixed on his throat, to choke and torment him.
His mother had gone out. He followed his father, and the three went out into the
back yard, the boy bare-headed. The night was sharp and the moon very bright.
All the boy's power of thought was suspended. In silence they walked down the
terraces of the park-like yard in the rear. Cap, Ray's dog, his only intimate,
came bounding forward for his young master's unfailing good night, but Mr.
Gilbert angrily ordered him away. The animal, astonished and hurt, slunk away,
keeping a watchful view of the group, and sat down at a distance and gazed in
wonder. They passed through a gate into an orchard, and shut the dog out. Mr.
Gilbert selected an apple tree, because the wood was tougher than that of a
peach. From it he cut two switches a yard long, and carefully pared the knots,
his wife observing without a word or a movement, and the boy looking away into
the distance. When Mr. Gilbert had done, he ordered his son to prepare. The lad
numbly, dumbly removed his coat and waistcoat, slipped his suspenders down,
tightened the strap at the back of his trousers, clasped his hands in front, and
bowed his head. The dog, which had crept to the fence and was peering through
the pickets, whined anxiously and was quivering. When roughly ordered away by
Mr. Gilbert, he went upon a terrace that overlooked the fence, and trembled as
he watched. The boy did not once look toward him. He was struggling with the
pain in his throat. Mr. Gilbert offered one of the switches to his wife. "Oh,
how can you!" she pleaded. "You must," he firmly said. "I'll relieve you when
you are tired." The boy's mind suddenly cleared, and he comprehended. A whipping
from his father would be frightful enough,--not for the blows; they were
nothing. The plan was not alone to humiliate him beyond all measure, but to
scourge his soul, ravage the sanctuary of his mother there, rend him asunder,
and cast him into an unthinkable hell of isolation; for she was the bond that
held him to the world, she was the human comfort and sweetness of his life.
Since his tenth year his discipline had been solely in her hands, his father
having given him up as worthless, hopeless. She had whipped him many a time, but
not for two years; and he had felt no pain, no shame, no outrage, no resentment.
The case of the teacher was different. Ray had solemnly sworn, renewing the oath
every day, that when he came to manhood he would beat his teacher to death for
whipping him so often and severely because of his dulness, his apathy, or his
rebellion; the whippings from his mother had only increased his tenderness for
her, and, in some way that he could not understand, his pity also. Perhaps it
was because he vaguely felt that she was impairing something in herself that was
precious to him. Never had she conquered him; never had he cried out in pain,
never pleaded for mercy, never confessed penitence nor promised reform. Mrs.
Gilbert shut her teeth hard, and, deathly white in the moonlight, raised the
switch. It was poised a moment, and then her arm fell limp to her side; but the
look that her son had seen in his father's eyes held her and steeled her with a
sort of desperate madness, and her arm again rose. A long cry, an anguished
wail, almost superhuman in its power to shatter the silence of the night, and
more startling than any human cry could be, struck disorganizingly through the
drama. It may have hastened the catastrophe. Mr. Gilbert was unnerved for a
moment, and in exasperation picked up a clod and threw it at the offending dog
trembling on the terrace. When he turned again, his son was kneeling beside his
unconscious mother, peering anxiously into her pallid face, and calling her
softly. In a stride Mr. Gilbert was upon him. A hand armed with strength and
fury caught up the shirt on the lad's shoulder, raised him, and flung him away
with so great violence that the slender body struck the ground as a log. Mr.
Gilbert tenderly picked up his wife and bore her into the house. The fall had
half stunned the boy. As he slowly struggled to a sitting posture the moon
danced fantastically, and some black trees crowning a near hill bowed and rose,
and walked sidewise to and fro. A whine, low, cautious, packed with sympathy and
solicitude, pleaded at the pickets, but the boy gave it no attention. He sat for
a time, rose giddily, swayed as he dressed himself, and with deliberation walked
to the gate. The dog, whining, trembling, crawled to meet him; but the boy,
instead of caressing him, ordered him quietly but firmly to the kennel.
Obedience was slow, and the animal looked up incredulous, wondering. The order
had to be repeated. Finally the dog obeyed, frequently pausing to look back, but
his master stood inflexible. Passing round the house, and without thinking or
caring about hat and overcoat, he noiselessly passed out the front gate, for a
moment studied the big house that had cradled him, bred much of his anguish, and
held all of his love, and firmly stepped out into the road. There was a gnawing
ache somewhere. Assuredly that one blow,--and from _her_,--could not have caused
it. After finding it in his throat, he was much relieved, and struck out on
secure legs. It did not occur to him that he was an outlaw and outcast. He did
not think at all. Hence there was no plan in his going. He did not even
understand that something deeper within him than had ever operated before had
assumed, in the disqualification of his ordinary ruling powers, an imperious
regency, and that it was infinitely greater or infinitely less than his usual
intelligence. He simply went on, thinking nothing, remembering nothing. The
beautiful highway, arched by great trees, above which rode the moon in keeping
pace with him, was a tunnel under a luminous sea; he half walked, half floated,
in the crystal water, and had no wonder that he breathed it. The houses along
the way were the palaces of lordly gnomes that inhabited the deep. Whatever was
leading him turned him out of the avenue at last and drifted him along a winding
road that was as beautiful in its less conventional way. He did not reflect that
all of this was familiar, shamefully familiar. It was the road to his
grandmother's but he had not visited her for a year. Her great wisdom and tact
had gone to a study of the strange, unhappy child; she had been kind to him in
every cautious, delicate fashion that she could devise; but he had ceased
coming, and avoided her when she visited his home, and she had never known why.
She was a patient woman and good; she knew prayer, and in her peaceful twilight
she walked with God; yet no revelation had come at her appeals, for the times
were not ready; and the boy went his way alone and silent, forever alone and
silent, and unhappy, unhappy! A white picket fence was presently marching with
him alongside the shining road. He did not consciously recognize it, and it
brought no rekindling of an old terror, an old shame; but soon, on the other
side of it, a distance away, there broke on the stillness a challenge that he
remembered, and its tone was contempt. He understood it, and woke with a start
because of a sudden fluff of flame and a whiff of smoke from the grass fire of
ten years ago, and the ache in his throat gave him a strangling wrench. His head
rolled; the moon swung through an arc of alarming length. That call beyond the
fence struck the dominant note of his life, and it was Fear. Yet it came from a
mere animal,--his grandmother's old buckskin horse, the most docile of
creatures. Ray had never feared the wild things of the woods. The cry of the
panther in the dead of night is dreadful but it had no terrors for the boy in
the forest solitude. Other fierce pad-footed members of the cat tribe had come
and sniffed him as he lay under the stars, and experience had taught him to
feign sleep, for a suspicion of his wakefulness would send them bounding away,
and he was lonely, always lonely. One night, roused from slumber, he sleepily
put his hand on the shaggy head of a bear that was curiously rummaging him, and
he was sorry that the beast took alarm and trotted away,--he would have been
comfortable to hug. That was before the dog had come into his life. He could
never understand why he was not afraid of anything whatever--not even of the
terrific lightning and thunder that sometimes flamed and crashed and bellowed
all about him,--except human beings and the forces that they controlled; and at
times he wondered why Cap loved him and the buckskin horse would kill him from
hate if he could. Here, then, beyond the picket fence, was the proclamation of
his shame,--coming from a gentle, superannuated horse with no more spirit than a
snail's. By some means, perhaps instinctive,--for all the world, when it finds
out, will hunt down and destroy whatsoever fears it (although the boy had not
reasoned it out thus),--the beast had learned that the boy was afraid, and had
then found an interest in life. Let him but have a glimpse of Ray, and, ears
back, lips drawn from hideous yellow teeth, and head thrust horribly forward, he
would snort, charge,--and the boy would run abjectly. The horse had never thus
treated another living thing. So the boy had stayed away from his grandmother's,
and she had never suspected, and her love and prayers had brought no revelation.
As the fence intervened, the horse knew that a charge would be useless; but
when, with a neat leap the boy nimbly caught his feet on the ground within the
pasture, the buckskin advanced in his minatory way. Ray did not know why he had
leaped the fence, unless the wrench in his throat had hurled him over or the
flame and smoke of the grass fire had driven him; nor did he know why he went
steadily to meet the horse, nor why his nostrils stretched and his arms strained
and his hands clenched, nor why there was a fierce eagerness in him; a rasping
thirst for something dried his tongue. The horse came on, and the boy, perfectly
calm, as fatally went to meet him. There was no calculation of results, yet the
lad knew that a horse's teeth and hoofs may be deadly. He knew only that he was
not going forward to end all his wretchedness, as, last year, the shoemaker who
drank had done with a shotgun, and young Corson, the thieving clerk, with
poison. It occurred to the boy that he cared nothing about the teeth and hoofs
of any horse, and nothing about what they might do. So ridiculous was the
_fiasco_ that he would have laughed had he not been sorry for the beast; for to
see any rampant thing so suddenly stricken with fear, when there was not the
least danger nor any intent of harm, was pitiful to see. He wished to assure the
buckskin that he was only a boy, a frail boy at that, and not what the animal
had apparently taken him to be,--a spawn of Darkness and Terror. He followed up
the trembling beast, trying to reassure him and to get near and pet him; but the
creature fled wildly at every advance, and when not pursued stood with head
aloft, ears cocked, and nostrils vibrant, quivering in fear. Seeing the
uselessness of further pacific effort, the boy sprang over the fence, went back
to the main highway, and by the unseen Hand was led into the short cut past Mr.
Elderby's house, where the greatest terror of his life--human excepted--had
months ago driven him to use the long way round. He did not know, nor for a
moment consider, why he chose the short cut tonight. He turned into it, walking
free and strong. Girls had meant nothing in the boy's life. That was because
they did not seem members of his species, but something fragile, mysterious, and
ranking somewhere between flowers and angels. Thus his feeling for them was
composed of a little awe, more reverence, and a sense of great remoteness. Never
had he observed them thoughtfully without reflecting that they were, in a
general way, much like his mother, or at least of her species; therefore they
must be sweet and dainty and gentle and kind. His only large swellings of the
heart had come from his thinking about them, particularly Grace Elderby, now
twelve years old. Nothing could have been so grand, for instance, as an
opportunity to rescue her single-handed, from wild savages that had her tied to
a tree and were piling fagots about her; then to dance in fiendish glee about
her as the flames rose. He would dash up on a splendid charger, his sword
flashing in the sun; savage heads would roll in the dust, or fall open, cleaved
in twain; there would be wild yells of fright and a wilder flight for life; he
would leap from his horse, speak reassuring words while he severed her bonds,
mount with her in his arms, and fly away, away, away. Twice had Grace seen his
shame. She had seen him pale, and run when her father's big, noisy dog had made
a flamboyant show of rage, and she had seen him stand mute and white when Andy
Carmichael, older and larger and much stronger than Ray, grossly insulted him in
her presence. The Elderby dog was the terror that had closed the short cut,--
closed it to Ray alone. Thus into the short cut swung Ray, walking strong and
free, the ache in his throat not so painful as before. The dog would be on
guard, and the boy was empty-handed. The shadows were deep under the trees, or
possibly the dog's hate and rage blinded him to what the buckskin had seen, or
perhaps he was of a different metal. Near the rear of the premises the big brute
came in so great a fury that he broke through the palings. The ensuing
collision,--for the boy stood his ground,--was so violent that Ray went down
underneath, and an ecstasy thrilled him when the flame swished and the smoke
stung, and he felt something sink into his shoulder and a stifle of hot, foamy
breath in his face. It seemed to have been easily and quickly done. True, when
he came erect he was weak and tired, and swayed dizzily, and wondered why. As,
without the least exultation, or even triumph, or even gratification, he looked
down at his work, and saw with surprise how deeply the ground had been torn up,
two men with sticks came running out,--evidently there had been some noise,
despite all his care for silence. One was Mr. Elderby, the other his coachman.
The gentleman stood in astonishment as the boy, controlling his heavy breathing,
stepped into the moonlight and calmly faced him. "Ray Gilbert! What are you
doing here, at this time of night?" "I was walking in the path. Your dog
attacked me." "What did you kill him with?" "My hands." Mr. Elderby stood in
wonder as he studied the lad. "I'm thankful to God that you are alive. It's a
miracle." He noticed that Ray's clothing was torn nearly to rags. In compassion
he laid a hand on Ray's shoulder, quickly withdrew it, and examined it in the
moonlight. "You are hurt, my son. Come into the house. I'll put you to bed and
send for the doctor and your parents." "Thank you, sir; I have something to do."
"But you must have attention.--Jake, hitch up the bay to the light buggy,--
quick,--and drive him home." "No, sir; but I'm much obliged. I have something to
do. Good night." The shadows enveloped him. The short cut led him over a sharp
hill and into the road again, and there he sat on the bank till his strength
came back. Then he went on till he arrived at a gate leading into a private
avenue. The ache in his throat was nearly gone. Passing quietly up the driveway
and round to the rear of the house, he came to a window, which was open at the
top, and sharply tapped on the glass. "Who's that?" came a voice. "Dress and
come out, Andy Carmichael. I'm Ray Gilbert." The sash was thrown up and the boy
glowered in the opening. "Ray Gilbert!--you cowardly, sneaking puppy! What do
you want?" "I want to see you. Dress and come out. Don't wake anybody." He spoke
quietly, trying to appear his usual self lest this monster, this overshadowing
terror of his life, should see whatever it was that had frightened the horse and
slain the dog. This was the boy who had beaten him so often and with such
merciless, sodden, gluttonous enjoyment; the boy who, when he did not care to
give the beatings himself--no provocation was ever needed,--would stand
threateningly by and let the smaller boys, even to the little ones with soft,
puny fists, beat the coward as long as they wished, merely for the love of
beating what did not resist; the boy whose lies had brought undeserved whippings
from the teacher; the boy who openly insulted him whenever he pleased, and,
worst of all, had humiliated him before Grace Elderby. It was the presence of
this boy at the party that evening, and the looks that he gave Ray, and the sly
tortures he inflicted, that had sent up the curtain on the night's drama. In
wondering surprise Andy studied the bare-headed, ragged, dirty figure standing
in the moonlight; and as crimson looks a muddy brown in such a light, he mistook
the smears on the other's face and the dark splotches on his clothing. What
could the creature want of him at this time of night and with that extraordinary
appearance? Likely Ray had been set upon and was seeking any refuge. It would be
joyous to complete the work that the others had begun. Andy soon emerged from
the house. "Come this way," said his mysterious visitant, and perplexed Andy
followed him to the rear of the fowl-house, where the light was clear. The flame
and smoke of the old grass fire were strong in the air. Ray halted, and faced
him. "Take off your coat," he quietly said, removing his own tattered garment.
"What for?" with a slight quaver composed of anger--and something else; for
there was a touch of the uncanny here. "We are going to fight." "Fight, eh! What
put that into your fool head?" Under the initial impulse from the challenge,
Andy was all heat and eagerness, and he bristled and swelled; but though, in
some vital ways, human sense is less acute than brute sense, Andy did feel
something of what the buckskin had felt, something of what had slain the dog,
and his heart thumped with a strange heaviness. "What do you want to fight for?
I'd beat the life out of you." It failed of the effect intended, and Andy found
his head suddenly twisted to one side by a slap on the cheek. He stepped back,
white with fury, tossed his coat aside, and hurled himself upon the slender
figure waiting with such unearthly composure. *       *       *       *       *

Dawn was flooding the east, and still the boy lurched and floundered on and on,
keeping to the road that led into the wilderness. Occasionally he would stop for
a minute's rest and to listen for the baying of Frazier's bloodhound; and he
wondered, in a purely detached and scientific way, whether he had sufficient
strength and acuteness left for another such grapple. It was merely an engaging
speculation, and was complicated with his determination to perform another task
before his work was done. It would nearly break his heart to be stopped now.
Likely the dog would not attack him, but merely hold him at bay until the
pursuers came to his summons; but if the dog would not attack, then the boy
must. Would strength or even life be left for the last and most important of all
the tasks to which the Hand was leading him?--for there was a good distance yet
to be covered, and work to be done at the end of it. He was thankful that the
ache had entirely left his throat and that a strange warmth had kindled in his
breast. [Illustration: "DAWN WAS FLOODING THE EAST, AND STILL THE BOY LURCHED
AND FLOUNDERED ON AND ON." FROM A PAINTING BY GORDON ROSS]

Perhaps they had not really meant what they said about setting Frazier's
bloodhound to run him down. The remark had come from the yardman, not Mr.
Carmichael himself, who had appeared too stunned to think of anything but his
son. If they had wished to kill the outlaw, or take him and send him to jail,
why had they not seized and bound him instead of staring at him so queerly, and
then the yardman foolishly saying, as Ray staggered away and they picked up the
limp figure, that they would get Frazier's bloodhound and set him on the trail?
They were two strong men against a mere boy, who was so exhausted that only with
a mighty effort could he stand. It was Andy's final despairing cry that had
waked them. Without either triumph or regret the boy struggled on. The
broadening of day made him partly aware of the savage presence that he made and
of the likelihood that traffic might open on the road at any time. Some of his
clothing was gone, and he had bound the remaining strips and rags about him as
best he could. He did not know about the aspect of his face and hair, but he
realized that should any one encounter him in the road he might be forced to do
something distasteful, and that the urgent task ahead might be interrupted. A
horseman and two market wagons passed at intervals, but the boy was hidden at
the roadside. So he reeled on and on, and so he came at last to the great pine.
There he turned out and crawled as much as walked through the trees and
undergrowth to the summit of a low ridge, where he felt the sunshine fall on his
half-naked back. It was so luxurious that he paused in the full glare of it, and
slowly turned, as one very cold before a warming fire, and reveled in it. With
every moment he felt it pouring into him, tingling softly as it ran. It was odd
with what cheerful industry it hunted out the coldest places in him and kindled
snug little fires under them. Most of all, it gave attention to the warm place
that had already started in the center, and that one woke to a wonderful glow.
Thus refreshed, he descended the slope on the farther side and came to a morass
threaded by a friendly stream. At the edge of the bog he halted and looked
keenly about. It had been two years since his last visit to this spot, and,
though his memory of the woods was excellent, he now found himself dull and his
vision bad. Ordinarily he would have found at once what he was seeking. Up and
down along the margin he stumbled, straining his dim eyes, crawling sometimes
and using groping hands in the search. Surely no one else could have come upon
this remote spot, found the treasure, and taken it away! At last! It had seemed
to him a very long time; but all else was submerged in the joy of the first
triumph, the first elation, that the lad had felt in many, many a day. Every
shadow that had lain on his conscience vanished, every shame that had cursed his
years was swept away, all bitterness took flight, and something fine and sweet
raced through him deliciously. There was no waste of precious time in hunting
for something with which to dig. Then, too, the glorious sun had mounted, and
was pouring its flood of light and warmth on his work and him. Like the tines of
a digging-fork, his fingers sank into the ground. The precious treasure, hugged
gently, reverently, with a fierce sense of protection, was balm to every hurt.
With it thus clasped, the boy laboriously made the ascent of the ridge on his
return, and paused on the summit. There was something strange in the distance
with which the descending slope to the road stretched so far, so bewilderingly
far. He contemplated it, and wondered if he could compass it in a lifetime. The
impulse to go on--for this last task was only half done--overcame the check from
the illusion, and he started down. His knees developed a foolish way of suddenly
flexing and seating him hard on the ground. At first it was annoying, but when
it happened the second time the absurdity of it, and the ridiculous suddenness
of the surprise that it caused, made the boy laugh aloud. It astonished him to
hear himself laugh, for that was very unusual, and he wondered. But he rose,
staggered on, and found himself chuckling inside,--a most astonishing thing! He
could not imagine why he was doing it. When he dropped the third time his voice
rang in so loud and merry a laugh that two blue jays came and scolded him
terrifically, and he laughed at them till his tears ran. He was so absurdly
happy that he feared he would hug his treasure too hard. If only his mother were
with him, that she might see how funny it all was, and laugh and be happy with
him, and then walk with him hand in hand through the beautiful woods, while he
showed her all the wonderful things that he knew! But no; his sisters and his
father must be with them,--and Grace, and Andy, too, and the teacher and dear
old grandmother. What a glorious time they would have! The boy started, for a
sweet, coaxing smother had suddenly fallen on him. He fought it away and rose
with great difficulty and in some alarm lest he should not reach the road. On he
lurched, clinging to the bushes as he swayed, trying not to laugh, for he had an
idea that he was very crass and silly. He saw the road, only a rod away, and
suddenly reflected that he was not presentable. Though staying till night would
delay the completion of his task, there was no help for it, and he was content,
and laughed because he was. And he knew that he really needed rest; for suppose
his legs should practise those grotesque eccentricities in the road, and
somebody should see! He sat down, carefully guarding his treasure, to wait in
happy patience. He would not sleep, and so lose something of his conscious
peace, something of thinking about what was going to happen at the end. No, he
_must_ not sleep. The frantically joyous barking of a dog standing over him--not
at all like the deep baying of Frazier's bloodhound,--woke the boy, and he tried
to raise his head, but it fell back like lead. He laughed drowsily in quiet
happiness, as he feebly patted the devoted head. "Dear old Cap," he said. "You
came, didn't you?" Messengers from Elderby's and Carmichael's had brought
strange news to the boy's parents. In alarm they had started out in the surrey,
taking Cap, in the sure faith that he would find their son. They had seen that
Andy was recovering,--he had been much more frightened than hurt. It was they
whose crashing through the bushes the boy heard after Cap had announced his
find. They halted and paled when they saw the torn, bruised, helpless figure
smiling at them from the ground, and so full of loving gladness merely to see
them that there was no room for surprise at their being there. The mother was
quicker than the father; she ran forward and fell on her knees beside her son.
"My boy!" she cried in a choke. He took her hand and smiled into her face. In
all her life she had never seen a smile so sweet, so happy. With his free hand
he lifted his treasure. "Mother," radiantly, "here it is!" "What, my poor dear?"
"Don't you remember? I told you two years ago that I'd found it, and you said
you'd be very glad if I'd bring it to you when I came this way again." She
opened the parcel, wrapped with so fond care in leaves and damp moss. "Why, it's
the rare and beautiful fern, and you were taking it to me! Bless your dear
heart!" and, much to his surprise, she began to cry. A LOST STORY

BY

FRANK NORRIS

Reprinted from _The Century Magazine_ of July, 1903 by permission

AT NINE o'clock that morning Rosella arrived in her little office on the third
floor of the great publishing house of Conant & Company, and putting up her veil
without removing her hat, addressed herself to her day's work. She went through
her meager and unimportant mail, wrote a few replies, and then turned to the
pile of volunteer manuscripts which it was her duty to read and report upon. For
Rosella was Conant's "reader," and so well was she acquainted with the needs of
the house, so thorough was she in her work, and so great was the reliance upon
her judgment, that she was the only one employed. Manuscripts that she "passed
up" went direct to Conant himself, while the great army of the "declined" had no
second chance. For the "unavailables" her word was final. From the first--which
was when her initial literary venture, a little book of short tales of Sicily
and the Sicilians, was published by the house--her relations with the Conants
had been intimate. Conant believed in her, and for the sake of the time when her
books could be considered safe investments, was willing to lose a few dollars
during the time of her apprenticeship. For the tales had enjoyed only a fleeting
_succes d'estime_. Her style was, like her temperament, delicately constructed
and of extreme refinement, not the style to appeal to the masses. It was
"searched," a little _precieuse_, and the tales themselves were diaphanous
enough, polished little _contes_, the points subtle, the action turning upon
minute psychological distinctions. Yet she had worked desperately hard upon
their composition. She was of those very few who sincerely cannot write unless
the mood be propitious; and her state of mind, the condition of her emotions,
was very apt to influence her work for good or ill, as the case might be. But a
_succes d'estime_ fills no purses, and favorable reviews in the literary
periodicals are not "negotiable paper." Rosella could not yet live wholly by her
pen, and thought herself fortunate when the house offered her the position of
reader. This arrival of hers was no doubt to be hastened, if not actually
assured, by the publication of her first novel, "Patroclus," upon which she was
at this time at work. The evening before, she had read the draft of the story to
Trevor, and even now, as she cut the string of the first manuscript of the pile,
she was thinking over what Trevor had said of it, and smiling as she thought. It
was through Conant that Rosella had met the great novelist and critic, and it
was because of Conant that Trevor had read Rosella's first little book. He had
taken an interest at once, and had found occasion to say to her that she had it
in her to make a niche for herself in American letters. He was a man old enough
to be her grandfather, and Rosella often came to see him in his study, to advise
with him as to doubtful points in her stories or as to ideas for those as yet
unwritten. To her his opinion was absolutely final. This old gentleman, this
elderly man of letters, who had seen the rise and fall of a dozen schools, was
above the influence of fads, and he whose books were among the classics even
before his death was infallible in his judgments of the work of the younger
writers. All the stages of their evolution were known to him--all their
mistakes, all their successes. He understood; and a story by one of them, a
poem, a novel, that bore the stamp of his approval, was "sterling." Work that he
declared a failure was such in very earnest, and might as well be consigned as
speedily as possible to the grate or the waste-basket. When, therefore, he had
permitted himself to be even enthusiastic over "Patroclus," Rosella had been
elated beyond the power of expression, and had returned home with blazing cheeks
and shining eyes, to lie awake half the night thinking of her story, planning,
perfecting, considering and reconsidering. Like her short stories, the tale was
of extreme delicacy in both sentiment and design. It was a little fanciful, a
little elaborate, but of an ephemeral poetry. It was all "atmosphere," and its
success depended upon the minutest precision of phrasing and the nicest harmony
between idea and word. There was much in mere effect of words; and more
important than mere plot was the feeling produced by the balancing of phrases
and the cadence of sentence and paragraph. Only a young woman of Rosella's
complexity, of her extreme sensitiveness, could have conceived "Patroclus," nor
could she herself hope to complete it successfully at any other period of her
life. Any earlier she would have been too immature to adapt herself to its
demands; any later she would have lost the spontaneity, the _jeunesse_, and the
freshness which were to contribute to its greatest charm. The tale itself was
simple. Instead of a plot, a complication, it built itself around a central
idea, and it was the originality of this idea, this motif, that had impressed
Trevor so strongly. Indeed, Rosella's draft could convey no more than that. Her
treatment was all to follow. But here she was sure of herself. The style would
come naturally as she worked. She was ambitious, and in her craving to succeed,
to be recognized and accepted, was all that passionate eagerness that only the
artist knows. So far success had been denied her; but now at last she seemed to
see light. Her "Patroclus" would make her claims good. Everything depended upon
that. She had thought over this whole situation while she removed the wrappings
from the first manuscript of the pile upon her desk. Even then her fingers
itched for the pen, and the sentences and phrases of the opening defined
themselves clearly in her mind. But that was not to be the immediate work. The
unlovely bread-and-butter business pressed upon her. With a long breath she put
the vision from her and turned her attention to the task at hand. After her
custom, she went through the pile, glancing at the titles and first lines of
each manuscript, and putting it aside in the desk corner to be considered in
detail later on. She almost knew in advance that of the thirty-odd volunteers of
that day's batch not one would prove available. The manuscripts were tagged and
numbered in the business office before they came to her, and the number of the
first she picked up that morning was 1120, and this since the first of the year.
Of the eleven hundred she had accepted only three. Of these three, two had
failed entirely after publication; the third had barely paid expenses. What a
record! How hopeless it seemed! Yet the strugglers persisted. Did it not seem as
if No. 1120, Mrs. Allen Bowen of Bentonville, South Dakota--did it not seem as
if she could know that the great American public has no interest in, no use for,
"Thoughts on the Higher Life," a series of articles written for the county paper
--foolish little articles revamped from Ruskin and Matthew Arnold? And 1121--
what was this? The initial lines ran: "'Oh, damn everything!' exclaimed Percival
Holcombe, as he dropped languidly into a deep-seated leather chair by the club
window which commanded a view of the noisy street crowded with fashion and
frivolity, wherein the afternoon's sun, freed from its enthralling mists, which
all day long had jealously obscured his beams, was gloating o'er the panels of
the carriages of noblemen who were returning from race-track and park, and the
towhead of the little sweeper who plied his humble trade which earned his scanty
supper that he ate miles away from that gay quarter wherein Percival Holcombe,
who----" Rosella paused for sheer breath. This sort did not need to be read. It
was declined already. She picked up the next. It was in an underwear-box of
green pasteboard. "The staid old town of Salem," it read, "was all astir one
bright and sunny morning in the year 1604." Rosella groaned. "Another!" she
said. "Now," she continued, speaking to herself and shutting her eyes--"now
about the next page the 'portly burgess' will address the heroine as 'Mistress,'
and will say, 'An' whither away so early?'" She turned over to verify. She was
wrong. The portly burgess had said: "Good morrow, Mistress Priscilla. An' where
away so gaily bedizened?" She sighed as she put the manuscript away. "Why, and,
oh, why _will_ they do it!" she murmured. The next one, 1123, was a story
"Compiled from the Memoirs of One Perkin Althorpe, Esq., Sometime Field-Coronet
in His Majesty's Troop of Horse," and was sown thick with objurgation--"Ods-
wounds!" "Body o' me!" "A murrain on thee!" "By my halidom!" and all the rest of
the sweepings and tailings of Scott and the third-rate romanticists. "Declined,"
said Rosella, firmly, tossing it aside. She turned to 1124:

"About three o'clock of a roseate day in early spring two fashionables of the
softer sex, elegantly arrayed, might have been observed sauntering languidly
down Fifth Avenue. "'Are you going to Mrs. Van Billion's musicale tonight?'
inquired the older of the two, a tall and striking demi-brunette, turning to her
companion. "'No, indeed,' replied the person thus addressed, a blonde of
exquisite coloring. 'No, indeed. The only music one hears there is the chink of
silver dollars. Ha! ha! ha! ha!'" Rosella winced as if in actual physical
anguish. "And the author calls it a 'social satire'!" she exclaimed. "How can
she! How can she!" She turned to the next. It was written in script that was a
model of neatness, margined, correctly punctuated, and addressed, "Harold
Vickers," with the town and State. Its title was "The Last Dryad," and the
poetry of the phrase stuck in her mind. She read the first lines, then the first
page, then two. "Come," said Rosella, "there is something in this." At once she
was in a little valley in Boeotia in the Arcadian day. It was evening. There was
no wind. Somewhere a temple, opalescent in the sunset, suggested rather than
defined itself. A landscape developed such as Turner in a quiet mood might have
evolved, and with it a feeling of fantasy, of remoteness, of pure, true
classicism. A note of pipes was in the air, sheep bleated, and Daphne, knee-deep
in the grass, surging an answer to the pipes, went down to meet her shepherd.
Rosella breathed a great sigh of relief. Here at last was a possibility--a new
writer with a new, sane view of his world and his work. A new poet, in fine. She
consulted the name and address given--Harold Vickers, Ash Fork, Arizona. There
was something in that Harold; perhaps education and good people. But the Vickers
told her nothing. And where was Ash Fork, Arizona; and why and how had "The Last
Dryad" been written there, of all places the green world round? How came the
inspiration for that classic _paysage_, such as Ingres would have loved, from
the sage-brush, and cactus? "Well," she told herself, "Moore wrote 'Lalla Rookh'
in a back room in London, among the chimney-pots and soot. Maybe the proportion
is inverse. But, Mr. Harold Vickers of Ash Fork, Arizona, your little book is,
to say the least, well worth its ink." She went through the other manuscripts as
quickly as was consistent with fairness, and declined them all. Then settling
herself comfortably in her chair, she plunged, with the delight of an explorer
venturing upon new ground, into the pages of "The Last Dryad." *       *       *
*       *

Four hours later she came, as it were, to herself, to find that she sat lax in
her place, with open, upturned palms, and eyes vacantly fixed upon the opposite
wall. "The Last Dryad," read to the final word, was tumbled in a heap upon the
floor. It was past her luncheon hour. Her cheeks flamed; her hands were cold and
moist; and her heart beat thick and slow, clogged, as it were, by its own
heaviness. But the lapse of time was naught to her, nor the fever that throbbed
in her head. Her world, like a temple of glass, had come down dashing about her.
The future, which had beckoned her onward,--a fairy in the path wherein her feet
were set,--was gone, and at the goal of her ambition and striving she saw
suddenly a stranger stand, plucking down the golden apples that she so long and
passionately had desired. For "The Last Dryad" was her own, her very, very own
and cherished "Patroclus." That the other author had taken the story from a
different view-point, that his treatment varied, that the approach was his own,
that the wording was his own, produced not the least change upon the final
result. The idea, the motif, was identical in each; identical in every
particular, identical in effect, in suggestion. The two tales were one. That was
the fact, the unshakable fact, the block of granite that a malicious fortune had
flung athwart her little pavilion of glass. At first she jumped to the
conclusion of chicanery. At first there seemed no other explanation. "He stole
it," she cried, rousing vehemently from her inertia--"mine--mine. He stole my
story." But common sense prevailed in the end. No, there was no possible chance
for theft. She had not spoken of "Patroclus" to any one but Trevor. Her
manuscript draft had not once left her hands. No; it was a coincidence, nothing
more--one of those fateful coincidences with which the scientific and literary
worlds are crowded. And he, this unknown Vickers, this haphazard genius of Ash
Fork, Arizona, had the prior claim. Her "Patroclus" must remain unwritten. The
sob caught and clutched at her throat at last. "Oh," she cried in a half-
whisper--"oh, my chance, my hopes, my foolish little hopes! And now _this_! To
have it all come to nothing--when I was so proud, so buoyant--and Mr. Trevor and
all! Oh, could anything be more cruel!" And then, of all moments, _ex machina_,
Harold Vickers's card was handed in. She stared at it an instant, through tears,
amazed and incredulous. Surely some one was playing a monstrous joke upon her
today. Soon she would come upon the strings and false bottoms and wigs and masks
of the game. But the office boy's contemplation of her distress was real.
Something must be done. The whole machine of things could not indefinitely hang
thus suspended, inert, waiting her pleasure. "Yes," she exclaimed all at once.
"Very well; show him in;" and she had no more than gathered up the manuscript of
"The Last Dryad" from the floor when its author entered the room. He was very
young,--certainly not more than twenty-three,--tall, rather poorly dressed, an
invalid, beyond doubt, and the cough and the flush on the high cheek-bone
spelled the name of the disease. The pepper-and-salt suit, the shoe-string
cravat, and the broad felt hat were frankly Arizona. And he was diffident,
constrained, sitting uncomfortably on the chair as a mark of respect, smiling
continually, and, as he talked, throwing in her name at almost every phrase:

"No, Miss. Beltis; yes, Miss. Beltis; quite right, Miss. Beltis." His
embarrassment helped her to her own composure, and by the time she came to
question him as to his book and the reasons that brought him from Ash Fork to
New York, she had herself in hand. "I have received an unimportant government
appointment in the Fisheries Department," he explained, "and as I was in New
York for the week I thought I might--not that I wished to seem to hurry you,
Miss. Beltis--but I thought I might ask if you had come to--to my little book
yet." In five minutes of time Rosella knew just where Harold Vickers was to be
placed, to what type he belonged. He was the young man of great talent who, so
far from being discovered by the outside world, had not even discovered himself.
He would be in two minds as yet about his calling in life, whether it was to be
the hatching of fish or the writing of "Last Dryads." No one had yet taken him
in hand, had so much as spoken a word to him. If she told him now that his book
was a ridiculous failure, he would no doubt say--and believe--that she was quite
right, that he had felt as much himself. If she told him his book was a little
masterpiece, he would be just as certain to tell himself, and with equal
sincerity, that he had known it from the first. He had offered his manuscript
nowhere else as yet. He was as new as an overnight daisy, and as destructible in
Rosella's hands. "Yes," she said at length, "I have read your manuscript." She
paused a moment, then: "But I am not quite ready to pass upon it yet." He was
voluble in his protestations. "Oh, that is all right," she interrupted. "I can
come to the second reading in a day or two. I could send you word by the end of
the week." "Thank you, Miss. Beltis." He paused awkwardly, smiling in
deprecatory fashion. "Do you--from what you have seen of it--read of it--do you
--how does it strike you? As good enough to publish--or fit for the waste-
basket?" Ah, why had this situation leaped upon her thus unawares, and all
unprepared! Why had she not been allowed time, opportunity, to fortify herself!
What she said now would mean so much. Best err, then, on the safe side; and
which side was that? Her words seemed to come of themselves, and she almost
physically felt herself withdraw from the responsibility of what this other
material Rosella Beltis was saying. "I don't know," said the other Rosella. "I
should not care to say--so soon. You see--there are so many manuscripts. I
generally trust to the first impression on the second reading." She did not even
hear his answer, but she said, when he had done speaking, that even in case of
an unfavorable report there were, of course, other publishers. But he answered
that the judgment of such a house as the Conants would suffice for him. Somehow
he could not peddle his story about New York. If the Conants would not take his
work, nobody would. And that was the last remark of importance he made. During
the few remaining moments of his visit they spoke of unessentials, and before
she was aware, he had gone away, leaving with her a memorandum of his address at
the time. *       *       *       *       *

She did not sleep that night. When she left the office she brought "The Last
Dryad" home with her, and till far into the night she read it and re-read it,
comparing it and contrasting it with "Patroclus," searching diligently if
perhaps there were not some minute loophole of evasion, some devious passage
through which she might escape. But amid the shattered panes of her glass
pavilion the block of stone persisted, inert, immovable. The stone could not be
raised, the little edifice could not be rebuilt. Then at last, inevitably, the
temptation came--came and grew and shut about her and gripped her close. She
began to temporize, to advance excuses. Was not her story the better one?
Granted that the idea was the same, was not the treatment, the presentation,
more effective? Should not the fittest survive? Was it not right that the public
should have the better version? Suppose "Patroclus" had been written by a third
person, and she had been called upon to choose between it and "The Last Dryad,"
would she not have taken "Patroclus" and rejected the other? Ah, but "Patroclus"
was not yet written! Well, that was true. But the draft of it was; the idea of
it had been conceived eight months ago. Perhaps she had thought of her story
before Vickers had thought of his. Perhaps? No; it was very probable; there was
no doubt of it, in fact. That was the important thing: the conception of the
idea, not the execution. And if this was true, her claim was prior. But what
would Conant say of such reasoning, and Trevor--would they approve? Would they
agree? "Yes, they would," she cried the instant the thought occurred to her.
"Yes, they would, they would, they would; I know they would. I am sure of it;
sure of it." But she knew they would not. The idea of right persisted and
persisted. Rosella was on the rack, and slowly, inevitably, resistlessly the
temptation grew and gathered, and snared her feet and her hands, and, fold on
fold, lapped around her like a veil. A great and feminine desire to shift the
responsibility began to possess her mind. "I cannot help it," she cried. "I am
not to blame. It is all very well to preach, but how would--any one do in my
case? It is not my fault." And all at once, without knowing how or why, she
found that she had written, sealed, stamped, and addressed a note to Harold
Vickers declining his story. But this was a long way from actually rejecting
"The Last Dryad"--rejecting it in favor of "Patroclus." She had only written the
note, so she told herself, just to see how the words would look. It was merely
an impulse; would come to nothing, of course. Let us put it aside, that note,
and seriously consider this trying situation. Somehow it seemed less trying now;
somehow the fact of her distress seemed less poignant. There was a way out of it
--stop. No; do not look at the note there on the table. There was a way out, no
doubt, but not that one; no, of course not that one. Rosella laughed a little.
How easily some one else, less scrupulous, would solve this problem! Well, she
could solve it, too, and keep her scruples as well; but not tonight. Now she was
worn out. Tomorrow it would look different to her. She went to bed and tossed
wide-eyed and wakeful till morning, then rose, and after breakfast prepared to
go to the office as usual. The manuscript of "The Last Dryad" lay on her table,
and while she was wrapping it up her eye fell upon the note to Harold Vickers.
"Why," she murmured, with a little grimace of astonishment--"why, how is this? I
thought I burned that last night. How _could_ I have forgotten!" She could have
burned it then. The fire was crackling in the grate; she had but to toss it in.
But she preferred to delay. "I will drop it in some ash-can or down some sewer
on the way to the office," she said to herself. She slipped it into her muff and
hurried away. But on the way to the cable-car no ash-can presented itself. True,
she discovered the opening of a sewer on the corner where she took her car. But
a milkman and a police officer stood near at hand in conversation, occasionally
glancing at her, and no doubt they would have thought it strange to see this
well-dressed young woman furtively dropping a sealed letter into a sewer-vent.
She held it awkwardly in her hand all of her way down-town, and still carried it
there when she had descended from her car and took her way up the cross-street
toward Conant's. She suddenly remembered that she had other letters to mail that
morning. For two days the weekly epistles that she wrote home to her mother and
younger sister had been overlooked in her pocket. She found a mail-box on the
corner by the Conant building and crossed over to it, holding her mother's and
sister's letters in one hand and the note to Vickers in the other. Carefully
scanning the addresses, to make sure she did not confuse the letters, she
dropped in her home correspondence, then stood there a moment irresolute.
Irresolute as to what, she could not say. Her decision had been taken in the
matter of "The Last Dryad." She would accept it, as it deserved. Whether she was
still to write "Patroclus" was a matter to be considered later. Well, she was
glad she had settled it all. If she had not come to this conclusion she might
have been, at that very instant, dropping the letter to Harold Vickers into the
box. She would have stood, thus, facing the box, have raised the cast-iron flap,
--this with one hand,--and with the other have thrust the note into the slide--
thus. Her fingers closed hard upon the letter at the very last instant--ah, not
too late. But suppose she had, but for one second, opened her thumb and
forefinger and--what? What would come of it? And there, with the letter yet on
the edge of the drop she called up again the entire situation, the identity of
the stories, the jeopardizing--no, the wrecking--of her future career by this
chance-thrown barrier in the way. Why hesitate, why procrastinate? Her thoughts
came to her in a whirl. If she acted quickly now,--took the leap with shut eyes,
reckless of result,--she could truly be sorry then, truly acknowledge what was
right, believe that Vickers had the prior claim without the hard necessity of
acting up to her convictions. At least, this harrowing indecision would be over
with. "Indecision?" What was this she was saying? Had she not this moment told
herself that she was resolved--resolved to accept "The Last Dryad"? Resolved to
accept it? Was that true? Had she done so? Had she not made up her mind long ago
to decline it--decline it with full knowledge that its author would destroy it
once the manuscript should be returned? These thoughts had whisked through her
mind with immeasurable rapidity. The letter still rested half in, half out of
the drop. She still held it there. By now Rosella knew if she let it fall she
would do so deliberately, with full knowledge of what she was about. She could
not afterward excuse herself by saying that she had been confused, excited,
acting upon an unreasoned impulse. No; it would be deliberate, deliberate,
deliberate. She would have to live up to that decision, whatever it was, for
many months to come, perhaps for years. Perhaps,--who could say?--perhaps it
might affect her character permanently. In a crisis little forces are important,
disproportionately so. And then it was, and thus it was, that Rosella took her
resolve. She raised the iron flap once more, and saying aloud and with a ring of
defiance in her voice: "Deliberately, deliberately; I don't care," loosed her
hold upon the letter. She heard it fall with a soft rustling impact upon the
accumulated mail-matter in the bottom of the box. A week later she received her
letter back with a stamped legend across its face informing her with dreadful
terseness that the party to whom the letter was addressed was deceased. She
divined a blunder, but for all that, and with conflicting emotions, sought
confirmation in the daily press. There, at the very end of the column, stood the
notice:

VICKERS. At New York, on Sunday, November 12, Harold Anderson      Vickers, in
the twenty-third year of his age. Arizona papers please      copy. Notice of
funeral hereafter. Three days later she began to write "Patroclus." *       *
*       *       *

Rosella stood upon the door-step of Trevor's house, closing her umbrella and
shaking the water from the folds of her mackintosh. It was between eight and
nine in the evening, and since morning a fine rain had fallen steadily. But no
stress of weather could have kept Rosella at home that evening. A week previous
she had sent to Trevor the type-written copy of the completed "Patroclus," and
tonight she was to call for the manuscript and listen to his suggestions and
advice. She had triumphed in the end--triumphed over what, she had not always
cared to inquire. But once the pen in her hand, once "Patroclus" begun, and the
absorption of her mind, her imagination, her every faculty, in the composition
of the story, had not permitted her to think of or to remember anything else.
And she saw that her work was good. She had tested it by every method, held it
up to her judgment in all positions and from all sides, and in her mind, so far
as she could see, and she was a harsh critic for her own work, it stood the
tests. Not the least of her joys was the pleasure that she knew Trevor would
take in her success. She could foresee just the expression of his face when he
would speak, could forecast just the tones of the voice, the twinkle of the
kindly eyes behind the glasses. When she entered the study, she found Trevor
himself, as she had expected, waiting for her in slippers and worn velvet
jacket, pipe in hand, and silk skullcap awry upon the silver-white hair. He
extended an inky hand, and still holding it and talking, led her to an easy-
chair near the hearth. Even through the perturbation of her mind Rosella could
not but wonder--for the hundredth time--at the apparent discrepancy between the
great novelist and the nature of his books. These latter were, each and all of
them, wonders of artistic composition, compared with the hordes of latter-day
pictures. They were the aristocrats of their kind, full of reserved force,
unimpeachable in dignity, stately even, at times veritably austere. And Trevor
himself was a short, rotund man, rubicund as to face, bourgeois as to clothes
and surroundings (the bisque statuette of a fisher-boy obtruded the vulgarity of
its gilding and tinting from the mantelpiece), jovial in manner, indulging even
in slang. One might easily have set him down as a retired groceryman--wholesale
perhaps, but none the less a groceryman. Yet touch him upon the subject of his
profession, and the bonhomie lapsed away from him at once. Then he became
serious. Literature was not a thing to be trifled with. Thus it was tonight. For
five minutes Trevor filled the room with the roaring of his own laughter and the
echoes of his own vociferous voice. He was telling a story--a funny story, about
what Rosella, with her thoughts on "Patroclus," could not for the life of her
have said, and she must needs listen in patience and with perfunctory merriment
while the narrative was conducted to its close with all the accompaniment of
stamped feet and slapped knees. "'Why, becoth, mithtah,' said that nigger. 'Dat
dawg ain' good fo' nothin' ailse; so I jes rickon he 'th boun' to be a coon
dawg;'" and the author of "Snow in April" pounded the arm of his chair and
roared till the gas-fixtures vibrated. Then at last, taking advantage of a lull
in the talk, Rosella, unable to contain her patience longer, found breath to
remark:

"And 'Patroclus'--my--my little book?" "Ah--hum, yes. 'Patroclus,' your story.
I've read it." At once another man was before her, or rather the writer--the
novelist--_in_ the man. Something of the dignity of his literary style
immediately seemed to invest him with a new character. He fell quiet, grave, not
a little abstracted, and Rosella felt her heart sink. Her little book (never had
it seemed so insignificant, so presumptuous as now) had been on trial before a
relentless tribunal, had indeed undergone the ordeal of fire. But the verdict,
the verdict! Quietly, but with cold hands clasped tight together, she listened
while the greatest novelist of America passed judgment upon her effort. "Yes;
I've read it," continued Trevor. "Read it carefully--carefully. You have worked
hard upon it. I can see that. You have put your whole soul into it, put all of
yourself into it. The narrative is all there, and I have nothing but good words
to say to you about the construction, the mere mechanics of it. But----"

Would he never go on? What was this? What did that "But" mean? What else but
disaster could it mean? Rosella shut her teeth. "But, to speak frankly, my dear
girl, there is something lacking. Oh, the idea, the motif--that----" he held up
a hand. "That is as intact as when you read me the draft. The central theme, the
approach, the grouping of the characters, the dialogue--all good--all good. The
thing that is lacking I find very hard to define. But the _mood_ of the story,
shall we say?--the mood of the story is----" he stopped, frowning in perplexity,
hesitating. The great master of words for once found himself at a loss for
expression. "The mood is somehow truculent, when it should be as suave, as
quiet, as the very river you describe. Don't you see? Can't you understand what
I mean? In this 'Patroclus' the atmosphere, the little, delicate, subtle
sentiment, is everything--everything. What was the mere story? Nothing without
the proper treatment. And it was just in this fine, intimate relationship
between theme and treatment that the success of the book was to be looked for. I
thought I could be sure of you there. I thought that you of all people could
work out that motif adequately. But"--he waved a hand over the manuscript that
lay at her elbow--"this--it is not the thing. This is a poor criticism, you will
say, merely a marshaling of empty phrases, abstractions. Well, that may be; I
repeat, it is very hard for me to define just what there is of failure in your
'Patroclus.' But it is empty, dry, hard, barren. Am I cruel to speak so frankly?
If I were less frank, my dear girl, I would be less just, less kind. You have
told merely the story, have narrated episodes in their sequence of time, and
where the episodes have stopped there you have ended the book. The whole animus
that should have put the life into it is gone, or, if it is not gone, it is so
perverted that it is incorrigible. To _my_ mind the book is a failure." Rosella
did not answer when Trevor ceased speaking, and there was a long silence. Trevor
looked at her anxiously. He had hated to hurt her. Rosella gazed vaguely at the
fire. Then at last the tears filled her eyes. "I am sorry, very, very sorry,"
said Trevor, kindly. "But to have told you anything but the truth would have
done you a wrong--and, then, no earnest work is altogether wasted. Even though
'Patroclus' is--not what we expected of it, your effort over it will help you in
something else. You did work hard at it. I saw that. You must have put your
whole soul into it." "That," said Rosella, speaking half to herself--"that was
just the trouble." But Trevor did not understand. HANTU

BY

HENRY MILNER RIDEOUT

Reprinted from _The Atlantic Monthly_ of May, 1906 by permission

THE SCHOONER _Fulmar_ lay in a cove on the coast of Banda. Her sails, half
hoisted, dripped still from an equatorial shower, but, aloft, were already
steaming in the afternoon glare. Dr. Forsythe, captain and owner, lay curled
round his teacup on the cabin roof, watching the horizon thoughtfully, with eyes
like points of glass set in the puckered bronze of his face. The "Seventh
Officer," his only white companion, watched him respectfully. All the Malays
were asleep, stretched prone or supine under the forward awning. Only Wing Kat
stirred in the smother of his galley below, rattling tin dishes, and repeating,
in endless falsetto sing-song, the Hankow ditty which begins,--

"'Yaou-yaou!' remarked the grasshoppers." Ashore, the coolies on the nutmeg
plantations had already brought out their mace to dry, and the baskets lay in
vermilion patches on the sun-smitten green, like gouts of arterial blood. White
vapors round the mountain peaks rose tortuously toward the blue; while seaward,
rain still filled the air as with black sand drifting down aslant, through gaps
in which we could descry far off a steel-bright strip of fair weather that
joined sea and sky, cutting under a fairy island so that it seemed suspended in
the air. "That's a pretty bit of land," said the doctor lazily. "'_Jam medio
apparet fluctu nemorosa Zacynthos_'. It might be, eh?--Humph!--Virgil and
Shakespeare are the only ones who sometimes make poetry endurable. All the
others are just little swollen Egos." This was an unusual excursion, and he
quickly returned to practical matters. "There's a better anchorage over there,"
he drawled, waving the milk-tin toward Zacynthos. "And less danger of our being
caught than here. But no use; we've got to humor the crew, of course. When they
say '_pulo burrantu_,' that settles it. Haunted islands--ghosts--fatal to
discipline. I used to have cruises spoiled by that sort of thing. We must stay
here and chance being found." He shot a stream of Java sugar into the tea, and,
staring at the sleepers, rubbed his shaven head thoughtfully. "Oh, yes,
'superstition,' all very easy to say," he muttered, half to himself. "But who
_knows_, eh? Must be something in it, at times." His mood this afternoon was new
and surprising. Nor was it likely to occur often in such a man. He had brought
the _Fulmar_ round the south of Celebes, making for Ceram; but as the Dutch had
forbidden him to travel in the interior, saying that the natives were too
dangerous just then; and as Sidin, the mate, had sighted the Dutch tricolor
flying above drab hulls that came nosing southward from Amboina way, we had
dodged behind the Bandas till nightfall. The crew laughed at the _babi blanda_--
Dutch pigs; but every man of them would have fled ashore had they known that
among the hampers and bundled spears in our hold lay the dried head of a little
girl, a human sacrifice from Engano. If we got into Ceram (and got out again),
the doctor would reduce the whole affair to a few tables of anthropological
measurements, a few more hampers of birds, beasts, and native rubbish in the
hold, and a score of paragraphs couched in the evaporated, millimetric terms of
science. There would be a few duplicates for Raffles, some tin-lined cases,
including the clotted head of the little girl, for the British Museum; the total
upshot would attract much less public notice than the invention of a new "part"
for a motor car; and the august structure of science, like a coral tree, would
increase by another atom. In the meantime, we lay anchored, avoiding ironclads
and ghosts. Dinner we ate below, with seaward port-holes blinded, and sweat
dripping from our chins. Then we lay on the cabin roof again, in breech-clouts,
waiting for a breeze, and showing no light except the red coals of two Burmah
cheroots. For long spaces we said nothing. Trilling of crickets ashore, sleepy
cooing of nutmeg-pigeons, chatter of monkeys, hiccough of tree lizards, were as
nothing in the immense, starlit silence of the night, heavily sweet with cassia
and mace. Forward, the Malays murmured now and then, in sentences of monotonous
cadence. "No, you can't blame them," said the captain abruptly, with decision.
"Considering the unholy strangeness of the world we live in----" He puffed
twice, the palm of his hand glowing. "Things you can't explain," he continued
vaguely. "Now this--I thought of it today, speaking of _hantu_. Perhaps you can
explain it, being a youngster without theories. The point is, of what follows,
how much, if any, was a dream? Where were the partition lines between sleep and
waking,--between what we call Certainty, and--the other thing? Or else, by a
freak of nature, might a man live so long--Nonsense!--Never mind; here are the
facts." *       *       *       *       *

Eleven years ago, I had the _Fulmar_ a ten months' cruise out of Singapore, and
was finally coming down along Celebes, intending to go over to Batavia. We
anchored on just such a day as this has been, off a little old river-mouth, so
badly silted that she had to lie well out. A chief in a _campong_ half a day
inland had promised to send some specimens down that evening,--armor, harps,
stone Priapuses, and birds of paradise. The men were to come overland, and would
have no boats. So I went ashore with three or four Malays, and the Old Boy's
time we had poking in and out over the silt to find fairway, even for the gig.
At last we could make round toward a little clearing in the bamboos, with a big
canary tree in the middle. All was going well, when suddenly the mate grunted,
pointing dead ahead. That man Sidin has the most magnificent eyes: we were
steering straight into a dazzling glare. I couldn't see anything, neither could
the crew, for some time. "_Tuggur_!" cried the mate. He was getting nervous.
Then all of a sudden--"_Brenti_!" The crew stopped like a shot. Then they saw,
too, and began to back water and turn, all pulling different ways and yelling:
"_Prau hantu!... sampar_! _...Sakit lepra! Kolera!... hantu!_"

As we swung, I saw what it was,--a little carved prau like a child's toy boat,
perhaps four feet long, with red fiber sails and red and gilt flags from stem to
stern. It was rocking there in our swell, innocently, but the crew were pulling
for the schooner like crazy men. I was griffin enough at the time, but I knew
what it meant, of course,--it was an enchanted boat, that the priests in some
village--perhaps clear over in New Guinea--had charmed the cholera or the plague
on board of. Same idea as the Hebrew scapegoat. "_Brenti_!" I shouted. The
Malays stopped rowing, but let her run. Nothing would have tempted them within
oar's-length of that prau. "See here, Sidin," I protested, "I go ashore to meet
the _kapala's_ men." "We do not go," the fellow said. "If you go, Tuan, you die:
the priest has laid the cholera on board that prau. It has come to this shore.
Do not go, Tuan." "She hasn't touched the land yet," I said. This seemed to have
effect. "Row me round to that point and land me," I ordered. "_Hantu_ does not
come to white men. You go out to the ship; when I have met the soldier-
messengers, row back, and take me on board with the gifts." The mate persuaded
them, and they landed me on the point, half a mile away, with a box of cheroots,
and a roll of matting to take my nap on. I walked round to the clearing, and
spread my mat under the canary tree, close to the shore. All that blessed
afternoon I waited, and smoked, and killed a snake, and made notes in a pocket
Virgil, and slept, and smoked again; but no sign of the bearers from the
_campong_. I made signals to the schooner,--she was too far out to hail,--but
the crew took no notice. It was plain they meant to wait and see whether the
_hantu_ prau went out with the ebb or not; and as it was then flood, and dusk,
they couldn't see before morning. So I picked some bananas and chicos, and made
a dinner of them; then I lighted a fire under the tree, to smoke and read Virgil
by,--in fact, spent the evening over my notes. That editor was a _pukkah_ ass!
It must have been pretty late before I stretched out on my matting. I was a long
time going to sleep,--if I went to sleep at all. I lay and watched the firelight
and shadows in the _lianas_, the bats fluttering in and out across my patch of
stars, and an ape that stole down from time to time and peered at me, sticking
his blue face out from among the creepers. At one time a shower fell in the
clearing, but only pattered on my ceiling of broad leaves. After a period of
drowsiness, something moved and glittered on the water, close to the bank; and
there bobbed the ghost prau, the gilt and vermilion flags shining in the
firelight. She had come clear in on the flood,--a piece of luck. I got up, cut a
withe of bamboo, and made her fast to a root. Then I fed the fire, lay down
again, and watched her back and fill on her tether,--all clear and ruddy in the
flame, even the carvings, and the little wooden figures of wizards on her deck.
And while I looked, I grew drowsier and drowsier; my eyes would close, then half
open, and there would be the _hantu_ sails and the fire for company, growing
more and more indistinct. So much for Certainty; now begins the Other. Did I
fall asleep at all? If so, was my first waking a dream-waking, and the real one
only when the thing was gone? I'm not an imaginative man; my mind, at home,
usually worked with some precision; but this,--there seems to be, you might say,
a blur, a--film over my mental retina. You see, I'm not a psychologist, and
therefore can't use the big, foggy terms of man's conceit to explain what he
never can explain,--himself, and Life. *       *       *       *       *

The captain tossed his cheroot overboard, and was silent for a space. "The
psychologists forget AEsop's frog story," he said at last. "Little swollen Egos,
again." Then his voice flowed on, slowly, in the dark. *       *       *       *
*

I ask you just to believe this much: that I for my part feel sure (except
sometimes by daylight) that I was not more than half asleep when a footfall
seemed to come in the path, and waked me entirely. It didn't sound,--only seemed
to come. I believe, then, that I woke, roused up on my elbow, and stared over at
the opening among the bamboos where the path came into the clearing. Some one
moved down the bank, and drew slowly forward to the edge of the firelight. A
strange, whispering, uncertain kind of voice said something,--something in
Dutch. I didn't catch the words, and it spoke again:--

"What night of the month is this night?" If awake, I was just enough so to think
this a natural question to be asked first off, out here in the wilds. "It's the
6th," I answered in Dutch. "Come down to the fire, Mynheer." You know how bleary
and sightless your eyes are for a moment, waking, after the glare of these days.
The figure seemed to come a little nearer, but I could only see that it was a
man dressed in black. Even that didn't seem odd. "Of what month?" the stranger
said. The voice was what the French call "veiled." "June," I answered. "And what
year?" he asked. I told him--or It. "He is very late," said the voice, like a
sigh. "He should have sent long ago." Only at this point did the whole thing
begin to seem queer. As evidence that I must have been awake, I recalled
afterwards that my arm had been made numb by the pressure of my head upon it
while lying down, and now began to tingle. "It is very late," the voice
repeated. "Perhaps too late----"

The fire settled, flared up fresh, and lighted the man's face dimly,--a long,
pale face with gray mustache and pointed beard. He was all in black, so that his
outline was lost in darkness; but I saw that round his neck was a short white
ruff, and that heavy leather boots hung in folds, cavalier-fashion, from his
knees. He wavered there in the dark, against the flicker of the bamboo shadows,
like a picture by that Dutch fellow--What's-his-name-again--a very dim, shaky,
misty Rembrandt. "And you, Mynheer," he went on, in the same toneless voice,
"from where do you come to this shore?" "From Singapore," I managed to reply.
"From Singapura," he murmured. "And so white men live there now?--_Ja, ja_, time
has passed." Up till now I may have only been startled, but this set me in a
blue funk. It struck me all at once that this shaky old whisper of a voice was
not speaking the Dutch of nowadays. I never before knew the depths, the essence,
of that uncertainty which we call fear. In the silence, I thought a drum was
beating,--it was the pulse in my ears. The fire close by was suddenly cold. "And
now you go whither?" it said. "To Batavia," I must have answered, for it went
on:--

"Then you may do a great service to me and to another. Go to Jacatra in Batavia,
and ask for Pieter Erberveld. Hendrik van der Have tells him to cease--before it
is too late, before the thing becomes accursed. Tell him this. You will have
done well, and I--shall sleep again. Give him the message----"

The voice did not stop, so much as fade away unfinished. And the man, the
appearance, the eyes, moved away further into the dark, dissolving, retreating.
A shock like waking came over me--a rush of clear consciousness----

Humph! Yes, been too long away from home; for I know (mind you, _know_) that I
saw the white of that ruff, the shadowy sweep of a cloak, as something turned
its back and moved up the path under the pointed arch of bamboos, and was gone
slowly in the blackness. I'm as sure of this as I am that the fire gave no heat.
But whether the time of it all had been seconds or hours, I can't tell you.
What? Yes, naturally. I jumped and ran up the path after it. Nothing there but
starlight. I must have gone on for half a mile. Nothing: only ahead of me, along
the path, the monkeys would chatter and break into an uproar, and then stop
short--every treetop silent, as they do when a python comes along. I went back
to the clearing, sat down on the mat, stayed there by clinching my will power,
so to speak,--and watched myself for other symptoms, till morning. None came.
The fire, when I heaped it, was as hot as any could be. By dawn I had persuaded
myself that it was a dream. No footprints in the path, though I mentioned a
shower before. At sunrise, the _kapala's_ men came down the path, little chaps
in black mediaeval armor made of petroleum tins, and coolies carrying piculs of
stuff that I wanted. So I was busy,--but managed to dismast the _hantu_ prau and
wrap it up in matting, so that it went aboard with the plunder. Yet this other
thing bothered me so that I held the schooner over, and made pretexts to stay
ashore two more nights. Nothing happened. Then I called myself a grandmother,
and sailed for Batavia. Two nights later, a very singular thing happened. The
mate--this one with the sharp eyes--is a quiet chap; seldom speaks to me except
on business. He was standing aft that evening, and suddenly, without any
preliminaries, said:

"Tuan was not alone the other night." "What's that, Sidin?" I spoke sharply, for
it made me feel quite angry and upset, of a sudden. He laughed a little, softly.
"I saw that the fire was a cold fire," he said. That was all he would say, and
we've never referred to it again. You may guess the rest, if you know your
history of Java. I didn't then, and didn't even know Batavia,--had been ashore
often, but only for a _toelatingskaart_ and some good Dutch chow. Well, one
afternoon, I was loafing down a street, and suddenly noticed that the sign-board
said, "Jacatra-weg." The word made me jump, and brought the whole affair on
Celebes back like a shot,--and not as a dream. It became a live question; I
determined to treat it as one, and settle it. I stopped a fat Dutchman who was
paddling down the middle of the street in his pyjamas, smoking a cigar. "Pardon,
Mynheer," I said. "Does a man live here in Jacatra-weg named Erberveld?"
"_Nej_," he shook his big shaved head. "_Nej_, Mynheer, I do not know." "Pieter
Erberveld," I suggested. The man broke into a horse-laugh. "_Ja, ja_," he said,
and laughed still. "I did not think of him. _Ja_, on this way, opposite the
timber yard, you will find his house." And he went off, bowing and grinning
hugely. The nature of the joke appeared later, but I wasn't inclined to laugh.
You've seen the place. No? Right opposite a timber yard in a cocoanut grove: it
was a heavy, whitewashed wall, as high as a man, and perhaps two perches long.
Where the gate should have been, a big tablet was set in, and over that, on a
spike, a skull, grinning through a coat of cement. The tablet ran in eighteenth-
century Dutch, about like this:--

BY REASON OF THE DETESTABLE MEMORY OF THE CONVICTED TRAITOR, PIETER
ERBERVELD, NO ONE SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BUILD IN WOOD OR STONE OR      TO PLANT
ANYTHING UPON THIS GROUND, FROM NOW TILL JUDGMENT DAY. BATAVIA, APRIL 14, ANNO
1772. You'll find the story in any book: the chap was a half-caste Guy Fawkes
who conspired to deliver Batavia to the King of Bantam, was caught, tried, and
torn asunder by horses. I nosed about and went through a hole in a side wall:
nothing in the compound but green mould, dried stalks, dead leaves, and blighted
banana trees. The inside of the gate was blocked with five to eight feet of
cement. The Dutch hate solidly. But Hendrik van der Have? No, I never found the
name in any of the books. So there you are. Well? Can a man dream of a thing
before he knows that thing, or----

*       *       *       *       *

The captain's voice, which had flowed on in slow and dispassionate soliloquy,
became half audible, and ceased. As we gave ear to the silence, we became aware
that a cool stir in the darkness was growing into a breeze. After a time, the
thin crowing of game-cocks in distant villages, the first twitter of birds among
the highest branches, told us that night had turned to morning. A soft patter of
bare feet came along the deck, a shadow stood above us, and the low voice of the
mate said:

"_Ada kapal api disitu, Tuan_--_saiah kirah_--_ada kapal prrang_." "Gunboat,
eh?" Captain Forsythe was on his feet, and speaking briskly. "_Bai, tarek
jangcar_. Breeze comes just in time." We peered seaward from the rail; far out,
two pale lights, between a red coal and a green, shone against the long,
glimmering strip of dawn. "Heading this way, but there's plenty of time," the
captain said cheerfully. "Take the wheel a minute, youngster--that's it,--keep
her in,--they can't see us against shore where it's still night." As the
schooner swung slowly under way, his voice rose, gay as a boy's:--

"Come on, you rice-fed admirals!" He made an improper gesture, his profile and
outspread fingers showing in the glow-worm light of the binnacle. "If they
follow us through by the Verdronken Rozengain, we'll show them one piece 'e
navigation. Can do, eh? These old iron-clad junks are something a man knows how
to deal with." MISS JUNO

BY

CHARLES WARREN STODDARD

_Copyright_, 1903, by A. M. Robertson Reprinted from FOR THE PLEASURE OF HIS
COMPANY

I

THERE was an episode in the life of Paul Clitheroe that may possibly throw some
little light upon the mystery of his taking off; and in connection with this
matter it is perhaps worth detailing. One morning Paul found a drop-letter in
the mail which greeted him daily. It ran as follows:

DEAR OLD BOY:

Don't forget the reception tomorrow. Some one will be here whom I      wish you
to know. Most affectionately,

HARRY ENGLISH. The "tomorrow" referred to was the very day on which Paul
received the sweet reminder. The reception of the message somewhat disturbed his
customary routine. To be sure, he glanced through the morning journal as usual;
repaired to the Greek chop-house with the dingy green walls, the smoked ceiling,
the glass partition that separated the guests from a kitchen lined with shining
copper pans, where a cook in a white paper cap wafted himself about in clouds of
vapor, lit by occasional flashes of light and ever curling flames, like a soul
expiating its sins in a prescribed but savory purgatory. He sat in his chosen
seat, ignored his neighbors with his customary nonchalance, and returned to his
room, as if nothing were about to happen. But he accomplished little, for he
felt that the day was not wholly his; so slight a cause seemed to change the
whole current of his life from hour to hour. In due season Paul entered a street
car which ran to the extreme limit of San Francisco. Harry English lived not far
from the terminus, and to the cozy home of this most genial and hospitable
gentleman the youth wended his way. The house stood upon the steep slope of a
hill; the parlor was upon a level with the street,--a basement dining-room below
it,--but the rear of the house was quite in the air and all of the rear windows
commanded a magnificent view of the North Bay with its islands and the opposite
mountainous shore. "Infinite riches in a little room," was the expression which
came involuntarily to Paul's lips the first time he crossed the threshold of
Thespian Lodge. He might have said it of the Lodge any day in the week; the
atmosphere was always balmy and soothing; one could sit there without talking or
caring to talk; even without realizing that one was not talking and not being
talked to; the silence was never ominous; it was a wholesome and restful home,
where Paul was ever welcome and whither he often fled for refreshment. The walls
of the whole house were crowded with pictures, framed photographs and
autographs, chiefly of theatrical celebrities; both "Harry," as the world
familiarly called him, and his wife, were members of the dramatic profession and
in their time had played many parts in almost as many lands and latitudes. There
was one chamber in this delightful home devoted exclusively to the pleasures of
entomology, and there the head of the house passed most of the hours which he
was free to spend apart from the duties of his profession. He was a man of
inexhaustible resources, consummate energy, and unflagging industry, yet one who
was never in the least hurried or flurried; and he was Paul's truest and most
judicious friend. The small parlor at the Englishes was nearly filled with
guests when Paul Clitheroe arrived upon the scene. These guests were not sitting
against the wall talking at each other; the room looked as if it were set for a
scene in a modern society comedy. In the bay window, a bower of verdure, an
extremely slender and diminutive lady was discoursing eloquently with the
superabundant gesticulation of the successful society amateur; she was dilating
upon the latest production of a minor poet whose bubble reputation was at that
moment resplendent with local rainbows. Her chief listener was a languid beauty
of literary aspirations, who, in a striking pose, was fit audience for the
little lady as she frothed over with delightful, if not contagious, enthusiasm.
Mrs. English, who had been a famous belle--no one who knew her now would for a
moment question the fact--devoted herself to the entertainment of a group of
silent people, people of the sort that are not only colorless, but seem to
dissipate the color in their immediate vicinity. The world is full of such; they
spring up, unaccountably, in locations where they appear to the least advantage.
Many a clever person who would delight to adorn a circle he longs to enter, and
where he would be hailed with joy, through modesty, hesitates to enter it; while
others, who are of no avail in any wise whatever, walk bravely in and find
themselves secure through a quiet system of polite insistence. Among the latter,
the kind of people to be merely tolerated, we find, also, the large majority.
Two children remarkably self-possessed seized upon Paul the moment he entered
the room: a beautiful lad as gentle and as graceful as a girl, and his tiny
sister, who bore herself with the dignity of a little lady of Lilliput. He was
happy with them, quite as happy as if they were as old and experienced as their
elders and as well entertained by them, likewise. He never in his life made the
mistake that is, alas, made by most parents and guardians, of treating children
as if they were little simpletons who can be easily deceived. How often they
look with scorn upon their elders who are playing the hypocrite to eyes which
are, for the most part, singularly critical! Having paid his respects to those
present--he was known to all--Paul was led a willing captive into the chamber
where Harry English and a brother professional, an eccentric comedian, who
apparently never uttered a line which he had not learned out of a play-book,
were examining with genuine enthusiasm certain cases of brilliantly tinted
butterflies. The children were quite at their ease in this house, and no wonder;
California children are born philosophers; to them the marvels of the somewhat
celebrated entomological collection were quite familiar; again and again they
had studied the peculiarities of the most rare and beautiful specimens of insect
life under the loving tutelage of their friend, who had spent his life and a
small fortune in gathering together his treasures, and they were even able to
explain in the prettiest fashion the origin and use of the many curious objects
that were distributed about the rooms. Meanwhile Mme. Lillian, the dramatic one,
had left her bower in the bay window and was flitting to and fro in nervous
delight; she had much to say and it was always worth listening to. With
available opportunities she would have long since become famous and probably a
leader of her sex; but it was her fate to coach those of meaner capacities who
were ultimately to win fame and fortune while she toiled on, in genteel poverty,
to the end of her weary days. No two women could be more unlike than this many-
summered butterfly, as she hovered among her friends, and a certain comedy queen
who was posing and making a picture of herself; the latter was regarded by the
society-privates, who haunted with fearful delight the receptions at Thespian
Lodge, with the awe that inspired so many inexperienced people who look upon
members of the dramatic profession as creatures of another and not a better
world, and considerably lower than the angels. Two hours passed swiftly by;
nothing ever jarred upon the guests in this house; the perfect suavity of the
host and hostess forbade anything like antagonism among their friends; and
though such dissimilar elements might never again harmonize, they were tranquil
for the time at least. The adieus were being said in the chamber of entomology,
which was somewhat overcrowded and faintly impregnated with the odor of
_corrosive sublimate_. From the windows overlooking the bay there was visible
the expanse of purple water and the tawny, sunburnt hills beyond, while pale-
blue misty mountains marked the horizon with an undulating outline. A ship under
full sail--a glorious and inspiring sight--was bearing down before the stiff
westerly breeze. Mme. Lillian made an apt quotation which terminated with a
Delsartean gesture and a rising inflection that seemed to exact something from
somebody; the comedienne struck one of her property attitudes, so irresistibly
comic that every one applauded, and Mme. Lillian laughed herself to tears; then
they all drifted toward the door. As mankind in general has much of the sheep in
him, one guest having got as far as the threshold, the others followed; Paul was
left alone with the Englishes and those clever youngsters, whose coachman,
accustomed to waiting indefinitely at the Lodge, was dutifully dozing on the box
seat. The children began to romp immediately upon the departure of the last
guest, and during the riotous half-hour that succeeded, there was a fresh
arrival. The door-bell rang; Mrs. English, who was close at hand, turned to
answer it and at once bubbled over with unaffected delight. Harry, still having
his defunct legions in solemn review, recognized a cheery, un-American voice,
and cried, "There she is at last!" as he hastened to meet the newcomer. Paul was
called to the parlor where a young lady of the ultra-blonde type stood with a
faultlessly gloved hand in the hand of each of her friends; she was radiant with
life and health. Of all the young ladies Paul could at that moment remember
having seen, she was the most exquisitely clad; the folds of her gown fell about
her form like the drapery of a statue; he was fascinated from the first moment
of their meeting. He noticed that nothing about her was ever disarranged;
neither was there anything superfluous or artificial, in manner or dress. She
was in his opinion an entirely artistic creation. She met him with a perfectly
frank smile, as if she were an old friend suddenly discovering herself to him,
and when Harry English had placed the hand of this delightful person in one of
Paul's she at once withdrew the other, which Mrs. English fondly held, and
struck it in a hearty half-boyish manner upon their clasped hands, saying,
"Awfully glad to see you, Paul!" and she evidently meant it. This was Miss.
Juno, an American girl bred in Europe, now, after years of absence, passing a
season in her native land. Her parents, who had taken a country home in one of
the California valleys, found in their only child all that was desirable in
life. This was not to be wondered at; it may be said of her in the theatrical
parlance that she "filled the stage." When Miss. Juno dawned upon the scene the
children grew grave, and, after a little delay, having taken formal leave of the
company, they entered their carriage and were rapidly driven homeward. If Paul
and Miss. Juno had been formed for one another and were now, at the right moment
and under the most favorable auspices, brought together for the first time, they
could not have mated more naturally. If Miss. Juno had been a young man, instead
of a very charming woman, she would of course have been Paul's chum. If Paul had
been a young woman--some of his friends thought he had narrowly escaped it and
did not hesitate to say so--he would instinctively have become her confidante.
As it was, they promptly entered into a sympathetic friendship which seemed to
have been without beginning and was apparently to be without end. They began to
talk of the same things at the same moment, often uttering the very same words
and then turned to one another with little shouts of unembarrassed laughter.
They agreed upon all points, and aroused each other to a ridiculous pitch of
enthusiasm over nothing in particular. Harry English beamed; there was evidently
nothing wanted to complete his happiness. Mrs. English, her eyes fairly dancing
with delight, could only exclaim at intervals, "Bless the boy!" or, "What a pair
of children!" then fondly pass her arm about the waist of Miss. Juno--which was
not waspish in girth--or rest her hand upon Paul's shoulder with a show of
maternal affection peculiarly grateful to him. It was with difficulty the half-
dazed young fellow could keep apart from Miss. Juno. If he found she had
wandered into the next room, while he was engaged for a moment, he followed at
his earliest convenience, and when their eyes met they smiled responsively
without knowing why, and indeed not caring in the least to know. They were as
ingenuous as two children in their liking for one another; their trust in each
other would have done credit to the Babes in the Wood. What Paul realized,
without any preliminary analysis of his mind or heart, was that he wanted to be
near her, very near her; and that he was miserable when this was not the case.
If she was out of his sight for a moment the virtue seemed to have gone from him
and he fell into the pathetic melancholy which he enjoyed in the days when he
wrote a great deal of indifferent verse, and was burdened with the conviction
that his mission in life was to make rhymes without end. In those days, he had
acquired the habit of pitying himself. The emotional middle-aged woman is apt to
encourage the romantic young man in pitying himself; it is a grewsome habit, and
stands sturdily in the way of all manly effort. Paul had outgrown it to a
degree, but there is nothing easier in life than a relapse--perhaps nothing so
natural, yet often so unexpected. Too soon the friends who had driven Miss. Juno
to Thespian Lodge and passed on--being unacquainted with the Englishes--called
to carry her away with them. She was shortly--in a day or two in fact--to rejoin
her parents, and she did not hesitate to invite Paul to pay them a visit. This
he assured her he would do with pleasure, and secretly vowed that nothing on
earth should prevent him. They shook hands cordially at parting, and were still
smiling their baby smiles in each other's faces when they did it. Paul leaned
against the door-jamb, while the genial Harry and his wife followed his new-
found friend to the carriage, where they were duly presented to its occupants--
said occupants promising to place Thespian Lodge upon their list. As the
carriage whirled away, Miss. Juno waved that exquisitely gloved hand from the
window and Paul's heart beat high; somehow he felt as if he had never been quite
so happy. And this going away struck him as being a rather cruel piece of
business. To tell the whole truth, he couldn't understand why she should go at
all. He felt it more and more, as he sat at dinner with his old friends, the
Englishes, and ate with less relish than common the delicious Yorkshire pudding
and drank the musty ale. He felt it as he accompanied his friends to the
theater, where he sat with Mrs. English, while she watched with pride the
husband whose impersonations she was never weary of witnessing; but Paul seemed
to see him without recognizing him, and even the familiar voice sounded
unfamiliar, or like a voice in a dream. He felt it more and more when good Mrs.
English gave him a nudge toward the end of the evening and called him "a
stupid," half in sport and half in earnest; and when he had delivered that
excellent woman into the care of her liege lord and had seen them securely
packed into the horse-car that was to drag them tediously homeward in company
with a great multitude of suffocating fellow-sufferers, he felt it; and all the
way out the dark street and up the hill that ran, or seemed to run, into outer
darkness--where his home was--he felt as if he had never been the man he was
until now, and that it was all for _her_ sake and through _her_ influence that
this sudden and unexpected transformation had come to pass. And it seemed to him
that if he were not to see her again, very soon, his life would be rendered
valueless; and that only to see her were worth all the honor and glory that he
had ever aspired to in his wildest dreams; and that to be near her always and to
feel that he were much--nay, everything--to her, as before God he felt that at
that moment she was to him, would make his life one long Elysium, and to death
would add a thousand stings. II

Saadi had no hand in it, yet all Persia could not outdo it. The whole valley ran
to roses. They covered the earth; they fell from lofty trellises in fragrant
cataracts; they played over the rustic arbors like fountains of color and
perfume; they clambered to the cottage roof and scattered their bright petals in
showers upon the grass. They were of every tint and texture; of high and low
degree, modest or haughty as the case might be--but roses all of them, and such
roses as California alone can boast. And some were fat or _passe_, and more's
the pity, but all were fragrant, and the name of that sweet vale was Santa Rosa.
Paul was in the garden with Miss. Juno. He had followed her thither with what
speed he dared. She had expected him; there was not breathing-space for
conventionality between these two. In one part of the garden sat an artist at
his easel; by his side a lady somewhat his senior, but of the type of face and
figure that never really grows old, or looks it. She was embroidering flowers
from nature, tinting them to the life, and rivaling her companion in artistic
effects. These were the parents of Miss. Juno--or rather not quite that. Her
mother had been twice married; first, a marriage of convenience darkened the
earlier years of her life; Miss. Juno was the only reward for an age of domestic
misery. A clergyman joined these parties--God had nothing to do with the
compact; it would seem that he seldom has. A separation very naturally and very
properly followed in the course of time; a young child was the only possible
excuse for the delay of the divorce. Thus are the sins of the fathers visited
upon the grandchildren. Then came a marriage of love. The artist who having
found his ideal had never known a moment's weariness, save when he was parted
from her side. Their union was perfect; God had joined them. The stepfather to
Miss. Juno had always been like a big brother to her--even as her mother had
always seemed like an elder sister. Oh, what a trio was that, my countrymen,
where liberty, fraternity and equality joined hands without howling about it and
making themselves a nuisance in the nostrils of their neighbors! Miss. Juno
stood in a rose-arbor and pointed to the artists at their work. "Did you ever
see anything like that, Paul?" "Like what?" "Like those sweet simpletons yonder.
They have for years been quite oblivious of the world about them. Thrones might
topple, empires rise and fall, it would matter nothing to them so long as their
garden bloomed, and the birds nested and sung, and he sold a picture once in an
age that the larder might not go bare." "I've seen something like it, Miss.
Juno. I've seen fellows who never bothered themselves about the affairs of
others,--who, in short, minded their own business strictly--and they got credit
for being selfish." "Were they happy?" "Yes, in their way. Probably their way
wasn't my way, and their kind of happiness would bore me to death. You know
happiness really can't be passed around, like bon-bons or sherbet, for every one
to taste. I hate bon-bons: do you like them?" "That depends upon the quality and
flavor--and--perhaps somewhat upon who offers them. I never buy bon-bons for my
private and personal pleasure. Do any of you fellows really care for bon-bons?"
"That depends upon the kind of happiness we are in quest of; I mean the quality
and flavor of the girl we are going to give them to." "Have girls a flavor?"
"Some of them have--perhaps most of them haven't; neither have they form nor
feature, nor tint nor texture, nor anything that appeals to a fellow of taste
and sentiment." "I'm sorry for these girls of yours----"

"You needn't be sorry for the girls; they are not my girls, and not one of them
ever will be mine if I can help it----"

"Oh, indeed!" "They are nothing to me, and I'm nothing to them; but they are
just--they are just the formless sort of thing that a formless sort of fellow
always marries; they help to fill up the world, you know." "Yes, they help to
fill a world that is overfull already. Poor Mama and Eugene don't know how full
it is. When Gene wants to sell a picture and can't, he thinks it's a desert
island." "Probably they could live on a desert island and be perfectly happy and
content," said Paul. "Of course they could; the only trouble would be that
unless some one called them at the proper hours they'd forget to eat--and some
day they'd be found dead locked in their last embrace." "How jolly!" "Oh, very
jolly for very young lovers; they are usually such fools!" "And yet, I believe
I'd like to be a fool for love's sake, Miss. Juno." "Oh, Paul, you are one for
your own,--at least I'll think so, if you work yourself into this silly vein!"
Paul was silent and thoughtful. After a pause she continued. "The trouble with
you is, you fancy yourself in love with every new girl you meet--at least with
the latest one, if she is at all out of the ordinary line." "The trouble with me
is that I don't keep on loving the same girl long enough to come to the happy
climax--if the climax _is_ to be a happy one; of course it doesn't follow that
it is to be anything of the sort. I've been brought up in the bosom of too many
families to believe in the lasting quality of love. Yet they are happy, you say,
those two gentle people perpetuating spring on canvas and cambric. See, there is
a small cloud of butterflies hovering about them--one of them is panting in
fairy-like ecstasy on the poppy that decorates your Mama's hat!" Paul rolled a
cigarette and offered it to Miss. Juno, in a mild spirit of bravado. To his
delight she accepted it, as if it were the most natural thing in the world for a
girl to do. He rolled another and they sat down together in the arbor full of
contentment. "Have you never been in love?" asked Paul suddenly. "Yes, I suppose
so. I was engaged once; you know girls instinctively engage themselves to some
one whom they fancy; they imagine themselves in love, and it is a pleasant
fallacy. My engagement might have gone on forever, if he had contented himself
with a mere engagement. He was a young army officer stationed miles and miles
away. We wrote volumes of letters to each other--and they were clever letters;
it was rather like a seaside novelette, our love affair. He was lonely, or
restless, or something, and pressed his case. Then Mama and Gene--those ideal
lovers--put their feet down and would none of it." "And you?" "Of course I felt
perfectly wretched for a whole week, and imagined myself cruelly abused. You see
he was a foreigner, without money; he was heir to a title, but that would have
brought him no advantages in the household." "You recovered. What became of
him?" "I never learned. He seemed to fade away into thin air. I fear I was not
very much in love." "I wonder if all girls are like you--if they forget so
easily?" "You have yourself declared that the majority have neither form nor
feature; perhaps they have no feeling. How do men feel about a broken
engagement?" "I can only speak for myself. There was a time when I felt that
marriage was the inevitable fate of all respectable people. Some one wanted me
to marry a certain some one else. I didn't seem to care much about it; but my
friend was one of those natural-born match-makers; she talked the young lady up
to me in such a shape that I almost fancied myself in love and actually began to
feel that I'd be doing her an injustice if I permitted her to go on loving and
longing for the rest of her days. So one day I wrote her a proposal; it was the
kind of proposal one might decline without injuring a fellow's feelings in the
least--and she did it!" After a thoughtful pause he continued:

"By Jove! But wasn't I immensely relieved when her letter came; such a nice,
dear, good letter it was, too, in which she assured me there had evidently been
a mistake somewhere, and nothing had been further from her thoughts than the
hope of marrying me. So she let me down most beautifully----"

"And offered to be a sister to you?" "Perhaps; I don't remember now; I always
felt embarrassed after that when her name was mentioned. I couldn't help
thinking what an infernal ass I'd made of myself." "It was all the fault of your
friend." "Of course it was; I'd never have dreamed of proposing to her if I
hadn't been put up to it by the match-maker. Oh, what a lot of miserable
marriages are brought on in just this way! You see when I like a girl ever so
much, I seem to like her too well to marry her. I think it would be mean of me
to marry her." "Why?" "Because--because I'd get tired after a while; everybody
does, sooner or later,--everybody save your Mama and Eugene,--and then I'd say
something or do something I ought not to say or do, and I'd hate myself for it;
or she'd say something or do something that would make me hate her. We might, of
course, get over it and be very nice to one another; but we could never be quite
the same again. Wounds leave scars, and you can't forget a scar--can you?" "You
may scar too easily!" "I suppose I do, and that is the very best reason why I
should avoid the occasion of one." "So you have resolved never to marry?" "Oh,
I've resolved it a thousand times, and yet, somehow, I'm forever meeting some
one a little out of the common; some one who takes me by storm, as it were; some
one who seems to me a kind of revelation, and then I feel as if I must marry her
whether or no; sometimes I fear I shall wake up and find myself married in spite
of myself--wouldn't that be frightful?" "Frightful indeed--and then you'd have
to get used to it, just as most married people get used to it in the course of
time. You know it's a very matter-of-fact world we live in, and it takes very
matter-of-fact people to keep it in good running order." "Yes. But for these
drudges, these hewers of wood and drawers of water, that ideal pair yonder could
not go on painting and embroidering things of beauty with nothing but the
butterflies to bother them." "Butterflies don't bother; they open new vistas of
beauty, and they set examples that it would do the world good to follow; the
butterfly says, 'my mission is to be brilliant and jolly and to take no thought
of the morrow.'" "It's the thought of the morrow, Miss. Juno, that spoils today
for me,--that morrow--who is going to pay the rent of it? Who is going to keep
it in food and clothes?" "Paul, you have already lived and loved, where there is
no rent to pay and where the clothing worn is not worth mentioning; as for the
food and the drink in that delectable land, nature provides them both. I don't
see why you need to take thought of the morrow; all you have to do is to take
passage for some South Sea Island, and let the world go by." "But the price of
the ticket, my friend; where is that to come from? To be sure I'm only a
bachelor, and have none but myself to consider. What would I do if I had a wife
and family to provide for?" "You'd do as most other fellows in the same
predicament do; you'd provide for them as well as you could; and if that wasn't
sufficient, you'd desert them, or blow your brains out and leave them to provide
for themselves." "An old bachelor is a rather comfortable old party. I'm
satisfied with my manifest destiny; but I'm rather sorry for old maids--aren't
you?" "That depends; of course everything in life depends; some of the most
beautiful, the most blessed, the most bountifully happy women I have ever known
were old maids; I propose to be one myself--if I live long enough!" After an
interlude, during which the bees boomed among the honey-blossoms, the birds
caroled on the boughs, and the two artists laughed softly as they chatted at
their delightful work, Paul resumed:

"Do you know, Miss. Juno, this anti-climax strikes me as being exceedingly
funny? When I met you the other day, I felt as if I'd met my fate. I know well
enough that I'd felt that way often before, and promptly recovered from the
attack. I certainly never felt it in the same degree until I came face to face
with you. I was never quite so fairly and squarely face to face with any one
before. I came here because I could not help myself. I simply had to come, and
to come at once. I was resolved to propose to you and to marry you without a
cent, if you'd let me. I didn't expect that you'd let me, but I felt it my duty
to find out. I'm dead sure that I was very much in love with you--and I am now;
but somehow it isn't that spoony sort of love that makes a man unwholesome and
sometimes drives him to drink or to suicide. I suppose I love you too well to
want to marry you; but God knows how glad I am that we have met, and I hope that
we shall never really part again." "Paul!"--Miss. Juno's rather too pallid
cheeks were slightly tinged with rose; she seemed more than ever to belong to
that fair garden, to have become a part of it, in fact;--"Paul," said she,
earnestly enough, "you're an awfully good fellow, and I like you so much; I
shall always like you; but if you had been fool enough to propose to me I should
have despised you. Shake!" And she extended a most shapely hand that clasped his
warmly and firmly. While he still held it without restraint, he added:

"Why I like you so much is because you are unlike other girls; that is to say,
you're perfectly natural." "Most people who think me unlike other girls, think
me unnatural for that reason. It is hard to be natural, isn't it?" "Why, no, I
think it is the easiest thing in the world to be natural. I'm as natural as I
can be, or as anybody can be." "And yet I've heard you pronounced a bundle of
affectations." "I know that--it's been said in my hearing, but I don't care in
the least; it is natural for the perfectly natural person _not_ to care in the
least." "I think, perhaps, it is easier for boys to be natural, than for girls,"
said Miss. Juno. "Yes, boys are naturally more natural," replied Paul with much
confidence. Miss. Juno smiled an amused smile. Paul resumed--"I hardly ever knew
a girl who didn't wish herself a boy. Did you ever see a boy who wanted to be a
girl?" "I've seen some who ought to have been girls--and who would have made
very droll girls. I know an old gentleman who used to bewail the degeneracy of
the age and exclaim in despair, 'Boys will be girls!'" laughed Miss. Juno.
"Horrible thought! But why is it that girlish boys are so unpleasant while tom-
boys are delightful?" "I don't know," replied she, "unless the girlish boy has
lost the charm of his sex, that is manliness; and the tom-boy has lost the
defect of hers--a kind of selfish dependence." "I'm sure the girls like you,
don't they?'' he added. "Not always; and there are lots of girls I can't
endure!" "I've noticed that women who are most admired by women are seldom
popular with men; and that the women the men go wild over are little appreciated
by their own sex," said Paul. "Yes, I've noticed that; as for myself my best
friends are masculine; but when I was away at boarding-school my chum, who was
immensely popular, used to call me Jack!" "How awfully jolly; may I call you
'Jack' and will you be my chum?" "Of course I will; but what idiots the world
would think us." "Who cares?" cried he defiantly. "There are millions of fellows
this very moment who would give their all for such a pal as you are--Jack!"
There was a fluttering among the butterflies; the artists had risen and were
standing waist-deep in the garden of gracious things; they were coming to Paul
and Miss. Juno, and in amusing pantomime announcing that pangs of hunger were
compelling their return to the cottage; the truth is, it was long past the lunch
hour--and a large music-box which had been set in motion when the light repast
was laid had failed to catch the ear with its tinkling aria. All four of the
occupants of the garden turned leisurely toward the cottage. Miss. Juno had
rested her hand on Paul's shoulder and said in a delightfully confidential way:
"Let it be a secret that we are chums, dear boy--the world is such an idiot."
"All right, Jack," whispered Paul, trying to hug himself in delight, 'Little
secrets are cozy.'" And in the scent of the roses it was duly embalmed. III

Happy is the man who is without encumbrances--that that is if he knows how to be
happy. Whenever Paul Clitheroe found the burden of the day becoming oppressive
he cast it off, and sought solace in a change of scene. He could always, or
almost always, do this at a moment's notice. It chanced, upon a certain
occasion, when a little community of artists were celebrating the sale of a
great picture--the masterpiece of one of their number--that word was sent to
Paul to join their feast. He found the large studio where several of them worked
intermittently, highly decorated; a table was spread in a manner to have
awakened an appetite even upon the palate of the surfeited; there were music and
dancing, and bacchanalian revels that went on and on from night to day and on to
night again. It was a veritable feast of lanterns, and not until the last one
had burned to the socket and the wine-vats were empty and the studio strewn with
unrecognizable debris and permeated with odors stale, flat and unprofitable, did
the revels cease. Paul came to dine; he remained three days; he had not yet worn
out his welcome, but he had resolved, as was his wont at intervals, to withdraw
from the world, and so he returned to the Eyrie,--which was ever his initial
step toward the accomplishment of the longed-for end. Not very many days later
Paul received the breeziest of letters; it was one of a series of racy
rhapsodies that came to him bearing the Santa Rosa postmark. They were such
letters as a fellow might write to a college chum, but with no line that could
have brought a blush to the cheek of modesty--not that the college chum is
necessarily given to the inditing of such epistles. These letters were signed
"Jack." "Jack" wrote to say how the world was all in bloom and the rose-garden
one bewildering maze of blossoms; how Mama was still embroidering from nature in
the midst thereof, crowned with a wreath of butterflies and with one uncommonly
large one perched upon her Psyche shoulder and fanning her cheek with its
brilliantly dyed wing; how Eugene was reveling in his art, painting lovely
pictures of the old Spanish Missions with shadowy outlines of the ghostly
fathers, long since departed, haunting the dismantled cloisters; how the air was
like the breath of heaven, and the twilight unspeakably pathetic, and they were
all three constantly reminded of Italy and forever talking of Rome and the
Campagna, and Venice, and imagining themselves at home again and Paul with them,
for they had resolved that he was quite out of his element in California; they
had sworn he must be rescued; he must return with them to Italy and that right
early. He must wind up his affairs and set his house in order at once and
forever; he should never go back to it again, but live a new life and a gentler
life in that oldest and most gentle of lands; they simply _must_ take him with
them and seat him by the shore of the Venetian Sea, where he could enjoy his
melancholy, if he must be melancholy, and find himself for the first time
provided with a suitable background. This letter came to him inlaid with rose
petals; they showered upon him in all their fragrance as he read the inspiring
pages and, since "Jack" with quite a martial air had issued a mandate which ran
as follows, "Order No. 19--Paul Clitheroe will, upon receipt of this, report
immediately at headquarters at Santa Rosa," he placed the key of his outer door
in his pocket and straightway departed without more ado. *       *       *
*       *

They swung in individual hammocks, Paul and "Jack," within the rose-screened
veranda. The conjugal affinities, Violet and Eugene, were lost to the world in
the depths of the rose-garden beyond sight and hearing. Said Jack, resuming a
rambling conversation which had been interrupted by the noisy passage of a bee,
"That particular bee reminds me of some people who fret over their work, and who
make others who are seeking rest, extremely uncomfortable." Paul was thoughtful
for a few moments and then remarked: "And yet it is a pleasant work he is
engaged in, and his days are passed in the fairest fields; he evidently enjoys
his trade even if he does seem to bustle about it. I can excuse the buzz and the
hum in him, when I can't always in the human tribes." "If you knew what he was
saying just now, perhaps you'd find him as disagreeable as the man who is
condemned to earn his bread in the sweat of his brow, and makes more or less of
a row about it." "Very likely, Jack, but these bees are born with business
instincts, and they can't enjoy loafing; they don't know how to be idle. Being
as busy as a busy bee must be being very busy!" "There is the hum of the hive in
that phrase, old boy! I'm sure you've been working up to it all along. Come now,
confess, you've had that in hand for some little time." "Well, what if I have?
That is what writers do, and they have to do it. How else can they make their
dialogue in the least attractive? Did you ever write a story, Jack?" "No, of
course not; how perfectly absurd!" "Not in the least absurd. You've been reading
novels ever since you were born. You've the knack of the thing, the telling of a
story, the developing of a plot, the final wind-up of the whole concern, right
at your tongue's end." "Paul, you're an idiot." "Idiot, Jack? I'm nothing of the
sort and I can prove what I've just been saying to you about yourself. Now,
listen and don't interrupt me until I've said my say." Paul caught hold of a
branch of vine close at hand and set his hammock swinging slowly. Miss. Juno
settled herself more comfortably in hers, and seemed much interested and amused.
"Now," said Paul, with a comical air of importance--"now, any one who has
anything at his tongue's end, has it, or _can_, just as well as not, have it at
his finger's end. If you can tell a story well, and you can, Jack, you know you
can, you can write it just as well. You have only to tell it with your pen
instead of with your lips; and if you will only write it exactly as you speak
it, so long as your verbal version is a good one, your pen version is bound to
be equally as good; moreover, it seems to me that in this way one is likely to
adopt the most natural style, which is, of course, the best of all styles. Now
what do you say to that?" "Oh, nothing," after a little pause--"however I doubt
that any one, male or female, can take up pen for the first time and tell a tale
like a practised writer." "Of course not. The practised writer has a style of
his own, a conventional narrative style which may be very far from nature.
People in books very seldom talk as they do in real life. When people in books
begin to talk like human beings the reader thinks the dialogue either
commonplace or mildly realistic, and votes it a bore." "Then why try to write as
one talks? Why not cultivate the conventional style of the practised writer?"
"Why talk commonplaces?" cried Paul a little tartly. "Of course most people must
do so if they talk at all, and they are usually the people who talk all the
time. But I have known people whose ordinary conversation was extraordinary, and
worth putting down in a book--every word of it." "In my experience," said Miss.
Juno, "people who talk like books are a burden." "They needn't talk like the
conventional book, I tell you. Let them have something to say and say it
cleverly--that is the kind of conversation to make books of." "What if all that
we've been saying here, under the rose, as it were, were printed just as we've
said it?" "What if it were? It would at least be natural, and we've been saying
something of interest to each other; why should it not interest a third party?"
Miss. Juno smiled and rejoined, "I am not a confirmed eavesdropper, but I often
find myself so situated that I cannot avoid overhearing what other people are
saying to one another; it is seldom that, under such circumstances, I hear
anything that interests me." "Yes, but if you knew the true story of those very
people, all that they may be saying in your hearing would no doubt possess an
interest, inasmuch as it would serve to develop their history." "Our
conversation is growing a little thin, Paul, don't you think so? We couldn't put
all this into a book." "If it helped to give a clue to our character and our
motives, we could. The thing is to be interesting: if we are interesting, in
ourselves, by reason of our original charm or our unconventionality, almost
anything we might say or do ought to interest others. Conventional people are
never interesting." "Yet the majority of mankind is conventional to a degree;
the conventionals help to fill up; their habitual love of conventionality, or
their fear of the unconventional, is what keeps them in their place. This is
very fortunate. On the other hand, a world full of people too clever to be kept
in their proper spheres, would be simply intolerable. But there is no danger of
this!" "Yes, you are right," said Paul after a moment's pause;--"you are
interesting, and that is why I like you so well." "You mean that I am
unconventional?" "Exactly. And, as I said before, that is why I'm so awfully
fond of you. By Jove, I'm so glad I'm not in love with you, Jack." "So am I, old
boy; I couldn't put up with that at all; you'd have to go by the next train, you
know; you would, really. And yet, if we are to write a novel apiece we shall be
obliged to put love into it; love with a very large L."

"No we wouldn't; I'm sure we wouldn't." Miss. Juno shook her golden locks in
doubt--Paul went on persistently:--"I'm dead sure we wouldn't; and to prove it,
some day I'll write a story without its pair of lovers; everybody shall be more
or less spoony--but nobody shall be really in love." "It wouldn't be a story,
Paul." "It would be a history, or a fragment of a history, a glimpse of a life
at any rate, and that is as much as we ever get of the lives of those around us.
Why can't I tell you the story of one fellow--of myself for example; how one day
I met this person, and the next day I met that person, and next week some one
else comes on to the stage, and struts his little hour and departs. I'm not
trying to give my audience, my readers, any knowledge of that other fellow. My
reader must see for himself how each of those fellows in his own way has
influenced me. The story is my story, a study of myself, nothing more or less.
If the reader don't like me he may lay me down in my cloth or paper cover, and
have nothing more to do with me. If I'm not a hero, perhaps it's not so much my
fault as my misfortune. That people are interested in me, and show it in a
thousand different ways, assures me that _my_ story, not the story of those with
whom I'm thrown in contact, is what interests them. It's a narrow-gauge, single-
track story, but it runs through a delightful bit of country, and if my reader
wants to look out of my windows and see things as I see them and find out how
they influence me he is welcome; if he doesn't, he may get off at the very next
station and change cars for Elsewhere." "I shall have love in my story," said
Miss. Juno, with an amusing touch of sentiment that on her lips sounded like
polite comedy. "You may have all the love you like, and appeal to the same old
novel-reader who has been reading the same sort of love story for the last
hundred years, and when you've finished your work and your reader has stood by
you to the sweet or bitter end, no one will be any the wiser or better. You've
taught nothing, you've untaught nothing----and there you are!" "Oh! A young man
with a mission! Do you propose to revolutionize?" "No; revolutions only roil the
water. You might as well try to make water flow up-hill as to really
revolutionize anything. I'd beautify the banks of the stream, and round the
sharp turns in it, and weed it out, and sow water-lilies, and set the white swan
with her snow-flecked breast afloat. That's what I'd do!" "That's the art of the
landscape gardener; I don't clearly see how it is of benefit to the novelist,
Paul! Now, honestly, is it?" "You don't catch my meaning, Jack; girls are deuced
dull, you know,--I mean obtuse." Miss. Juno flushed. "I wasn't referring to the
novel; I was saying that instead of writing my all in a vain effort to
revolutionize anything in particular, I'd try to get all the good I could out of
the existing evil, and make the best of it. But let's not talk in this vein any
longer; I hate argument. Argument is nothing but a logical or illogical set-to;
begin it as politely as you please, it is not long before both parties throw
aside their gloves and go in with naked and bloody fists; one of the two gets
knocked out, but he hasn't been convinced of anything in particular; he was not
in condition, that is all; better luck next time." "Have you the tobacco, Paul?"
asked Miss Juno, extending her hand. The tobacco was silently passed from one
hammock to the other; each rolled a cigarette, and lit it. Paul blew a great
smoke ring into the air; his companion blew a lesser one that shot rapidly after
the larger halo, and the two were speedily blended in a pretty vapor wraith.
"That's the ghost of an argument, Jack," said Paul, glancing above. He resumed:
"What I was about to say when I was interrupted"--this was his pet joke; he knew
well enough that he had been monopolizing the conversation of the morning--"what
I was about to say was this: my novel shall be full of love, but you won't know
that it is love--I mean the every-day love of the every-day people. In my book
everybody is going to love everybody else--or almost everybody else; if there is
any sort of a misunderstanding it sha'n't matter much. I hate rows; I believe in
the truest and the fondest fellowship. What is true love? It is bosom
friendship; that is the purest passion of love. It is the only love that lasts."
There was a silence for the space of some minutes; Paul and Miss. Juno were
quietly, dreamily smoking. Without, among the roses, there was the boom of bees;
the carol of birds, the flutter of balancing butterflies. Nature was very
soothing, she was in one of her sweetest moods. The two friends were growing
drowsy. Miss. Juno, if she at times betrayed a feminine fondness for argument,
was certainly in no haste to provoke Paul to a further discussion of the quality
of love or friendship; presently she began rather languidly:

"You were saying I ought to write, and that you believe I can, if I will only
try. I'm going to try; I've been thinking of something that happened within my
knowledge; perhaps I can make a magazine sketch of it." "Oh, please write it,
Jack! Write it, and send the manuscript to me, that I may place it for you; will
you? Promise me you will!" The boy was quite enthusiastic, and his undisguised
pleasure in the prospect of seeing something from the pen of his pal--as he
loved to call Miss. Juno--seemed to awaken a responsive echo in her heart. "I
will, Paul; I promise you!" --and the two struck hands on it. IV

When Paul returned to the Eyrie, it had been decided that Miss. Juno was to at
once begin her first contribution to periodic literature. She had found her
plot; she had only to tell her story in her own way, just as if she were
recounting it to Paul. Indeed, at his suggestion, she had promised to sit with
pen in hand and address him as if he were actually present. In this way he hoped
she would drop into the narrative style natural to her, and so attractive to her
listeners. As for Paul Clitheroe, he was to make inquiry among his editorial
friends in the Misty City, and see if he might not effect some satisfactory
arrangement with one or another of them, whereby he would be placed in a
position enabling him to go abroad in the course of a few weeks, and remain
abroad indefinitely. He would make Venice his headquarters; he would have the
constant society of his friends; the fellowship of Jack; together, after the
joint literary labors of the day, they would stem the sluggish tide of the
darksome canals and exchange sentiment and cigarette smoke in mutual delight.
Paul was to write a weekly or a semi-monthly letter to the journal employing him
as a special correspondent. At intervals, in the company of his friends, or
alone, he would set forth upon one of those charming excursions so fruitful of
picturesque experience, and return to his lodgings on the Schiavoni, to work
them up into magazine articles; these would later, of course, get into book
form; from the book would come increased reputation, a larger source of revenue,
and the contentment of success which he so longed for, so often thought he had
found, and so seldom enjoyed for any length of time. All this was to be
arranged,--or rather the means to which all this was the delightful end--was to
be settled as soon as possible. Miss. Juno, having finished her story, was to
send word to Paul and he was to hie him to the Rose Garden; thereafter at an
ideal dinner, elaborated in honor of the occasion, Eugene was to read the maiden
effort, while the author, sustained by the sympathetic presence of her admiring
Mama and her devoted Paul, awaited the verdict. This was to be the test--a
trying one for Miss Juno. As for Paul, he felt quite patriarchal, and yet, so
genuine and so deep was his interest in the future of his protegee, that he was
already showing symptoms of anxiety. The article having been sent to the editor
of the first magazine in the land, the family would be ready to fold its
aesthetic tent and depart; Paul, of course, accompanying them. It was a happy
thought; visions of Venice; the moonlit lagoon; the reflected lamps plunging
their tongues of flame into the sea; the humid air, the almost breathless
silence, broken at intervals by the baying of deep-mouthed bells; the splash of
oars; the soft tripping measure of human voices and the refrain of the
gondoliers; Jack by his side--Jack now in her element, with the maroon fez of
the distinguished howadji tilted upon the back of her handsome head, her shapely
finger-nails stained with henna, her wrists weighed down with their scores of
tinkling bangles! Could anything be jollier? Paul gave himself up to the full
enjoyment of this dream. Already he seemed to have overcome every obstacle, and
to be reveling in the subdued but sensuous joys of the Adriatic queen. Sometimes
he had fled in spirit to the sweet seclusion of the cloistral life at San
Lazaro. Byron did it before him;--the plump, the soft-voiced, mild-visaged
little Arminians will tell you all about that, and take immense pleasure in the
telling of it. Paul had also known a fellow-writer who had emulated Byron, and
had even distanced the Byron record in one respect at least--he had outstayed
his lordship at San Lazaro! Sometimes Paul turned hermit, in imagination and
dwelt alone upon the long sands of the melancholy Lido; not seeing Jack, or
anybody, save the waiter at the neighboring restaurant, for days and days
together. It was immensely diverting, this dream-life that Paul led in far
distant Venice. It was just the life he loved, the ideal life, and it wasn't
costing him a cent--no, not a _soldo_, to speak more in the Venetian manner.
While he was looking forward to the life to come, he had hardly time to perfect
his arrangements for a realization of it. He was to pack everything and store it
in a bonded warehouse, where it should remain until he had taken root abroad.
Then he would send for it and settle in the spot he loved best of all, and there
write and dream and drink the wine of the country, while the Angelus bells
ringing thrice a day awoke him to a realizing sense of the fairy-like flight of
time just as they have been doing for ages past, and, let us hope, as they will
continue to do forever and forever. One day he stopped dreaming of Italy, and
resolved to secure his engagement as a correspondent. Miss. Juno had written him
that her sketch was nearly finished; that he must hold himself in readiness to
answer her summons at a moment's notice. The season was advancing; no time was
to be lost, etc. Paul started at once for the office of his favorite journal;
his interview was not entirely satisfactory. Editors, one and all, as he called
upon them in succession, didn't seem especially anxious to send the young man
abroad for an indefinite period; the salary requested seemed exorbitant. They
each made a proposition; all said: "This is the best I can do at present; go to
the other offices, and if you receive a better offer we advise you to take it."
This seemed reasonable enough, but as their best rate was fifteen dollars for
one letter a week he feared that even the highly respectable second-class
accommodations of all sorts to which he must confine himself would be beyond his
means. Was he losing interest in the scheme which had afforded him so many hours
of sweet, if not solid, satisfaction? No, not exactly. Poverty was more
picturesque abroad than in his prosaic native land. His song was not quite so
joyous, that was all; he would go to Italy; he would take a smaller room; he
would eat at the Trattoria of the people; he would make studies of the peasant,
the _contadini_. Jack had written, "There is pie in Venice when we are there;
Mama knows how to make pie; pie cannot be purchased elsewhere. Love is the price
thereof!" And pie is very filling. Yes, he would go to Europe on fifteen dollars
per week and find paradise in the bright particular Venetian Pie! V

After many days a great change came to pass. Everybody knew that Paul Clitheroe
had disappeared without so much as a "good-by" to his most intimate friends.
Curiosity was excited for a little while, but for a little while only. Soon he
was forgotten, or remembered by no one save those who had known and loved him
and who at intervals regretted him. And Miss. Juno? Ah, Miss. Juno, the joy of
Paul's young dreams! Having been launched successfully at his hands, and hoping
in her brave, off-hand way to be of service to him, she continued to write as
much for his sake as for her own; she knew it would please him beyond compare
were she to achieve a pronounced literary success. He had urged her to write a
novel. She had lightly laughed him to scorn--and had kept turning in her mind
the possible plot for a tale. One day it suddenly took shape; the whole thing
seemed to her perfectly plain sailing; if Clitheroe had launched her upon that
venturesome sea, she had suddenly found herself equipped and able to sail
without the aid of any one. She had written to Paul of her joy in this new
discovery. Before her loomed the misty outlines of fair far islands; she was
about to set forth to people these. Oh, the joy of that! The unspeakable joy of
it! She spread all sail on this voyage of discovery--she asked for nothing more
save the prayers of her old comrade. She longed to have him near her so that
together they might discuss the situations in her story, one after another. If
he were only in Venice they would meet daily over their dinner, and after dinner
she would read to him what she had written since they last met; then they would
go in a gondola for a moonlight cruise; of course it was always moonlight in
Venice! Would this not be delightful and just as an all-wise Providence meant it
should be? Paul had read something like this in the letters which she used to
write him when he was divided against himself; when he began to feel himself
sinking, without a hand to help him. Venice was out of the question then; it
were vain for him to even dream of it. So time went on; Miss. Juno became a
slave of the lamp; her work grew marvelously under her pen. Her little people
led her a merry chase; they whispered in her ears night and day; she got no rest
of them--but rose again and again to put down the clever things they said, and
so, almost before she knew it, her novel had grown into three fine English
volumes with inch-broad margins, half-inch spacings, large type and heavy paper.
She was amazed to find how important her work had become. Fortune favored her.
She found a publisher who was ready to bring out her book at once; two sets of
proofs were forwarded to her; these she corrected with deep delight, returning
one to her London publisher and sending one to America, where another publisher
was ready to issue the work simultaneously with the English print. It made its
appearance under a pen-name in England--anonymously in America. What curiosity
it awakened may be judged by the instantaneous success of the work in both
countries: Tauchnitz at once added it to his fascinating list; the French and
German translators negotiated for the right to run it as a serial in Paris and
Berlin journals. Considerable curiosity was awakened concerning the identity of
the authorship, and the personal paragraphers made a thousand conjectures, all
of which helped the sale of the novel immensely and amused Miss. Juno and her
confidants beyond expression. All this was known to Clitheroe before he had
reached the climax that forced him to the wall. He had written to Miss. Juno;
and he had called her "Jack" as of old, but he felt and she realized that he
felt that the conditions were changed. The atmosphere of the rose-garden was
gone forever; the hopes and aspirations that were so easy and so airy then, had
folded their wings like bruised butterflies or faded like the flowers. She
resolved to wait until he had recovered his senses and then perhaps he would
come to Venice and to them--which in her estimation amounted to one and the same
thing. She wrote to him no more; he had not written her for weeks, save only the
few lines of congratulation on the success of her novel, and to thank her for
the author's copy she had sent him: the three-volume London edition with a fond
inscription on the flyleaf--a line in each volume. This was the end of all that.
Once more she wrote, but not to Clitheroe; she wrote to a friend she had known
when she was in the far West, one who knew Paul well and was always eager for
news of him. The letter, or a part of it, ran as follows:

"Of course such weather as this is not to be shut out-of-doors; we feed on it;
we drink it in; we bathe in it, body and soul. Ah, my friend, know a June in
Venice before you die! Don't dare to die until you have become saturated with
the aerial-aquatic beauty of this Divine Sea-City! "Oh, I was about to tell you
something when the charms of this Syren made me half-delirious and of course I
forgot all else in life--I always do so. Well, as we leave in a few days for the
delectable Dolonites, we are making our rounds of P. P. C.'s,--that we are
revisiting every nook and corner in the lagoon so dear to us. We invariably do
this; it is the most delicious leave-taking imaginable. If I were only Niobe I'd
water these shores with tears--I'm sure I would; but you know I never weep; I
never did; I don't know how; there is not a drop of brine in my whole
composition. "Dear me! how I do rattle on--but you know my moods and will make
due allowance for what might strike the cold, unfeeling world as being
garrulity. "We had resolved to visit that most enchanting of all Italian
shrines, San Francisco del Deserto. We had not been there for an age; you know
it is rather a long pull over, and one waits for the most perfect hour when one
ventures upon the outskirts of the lagoon. "Oh, the unspeakable loveliness of
that perfect day! The mellowing haze that veiled the water; the heavenly blue of
the sea, a mirror of the sky, and floating in between the two, so that one could
not be quite sure whether it slumbered in the lap of the sea or hung upon the
bosom of the sky, that ideal summer island--San Francisco del Deserto. "You know
it is only a few acres in extent--not more than six, I fancy, and four-fifths of
it are walled about with walls that stand knee-deep in sea-grasses. Along, and
above it, are thrust the tapering tops of those highly decorative cypresses
without which Italy would not be herself at all. There is such a monastery there
--an ideal one, with cloister, and sundial, and marble-curbed well, and all
that; at least so I am told; we poor feminine creatures are not permitted to
cross the thresholds of these Holy Houses. This reminds me of a remark I heard
made by a very clever woman who wished to have a glimpse of the interior of that
impossible Monte Casino on the mountain top between Rome and Naples. Of course
she was refused admission; she turned upon the poor Benedictine, who was only
obeying orders--it is a rule of the house, you know--and said, 'Why do you
refuse me admission to this shrine? Is it because I am of the same sex as the
mother of your God?' But she didn't get in for all that. Neither have I crossed
the threshold of San Francisco del Deserto, but I have wandered upon the green
in front of the little chapel; and sat under the trees in contemplation of the
sea and wished--yes, really and truly wished--that I were a barefooted
Franciscan friar with nothing to do but look picturesque in such a terrestrial
paradise. "What do you think happened when we were there the other day? Now at
last I am coming to it. We were all upon the Campo in front of the chapel--
Violet, Eugene and I; the Angelus had just rung; it was the hour of all hours in
one's lifetime; the deepening twilight--we had the moon to light us on our
homeward way--the inexpressible loveliness of the atmosphere, the unutterable
peace, the unspeakable serenity--the repose in nature--I cannot begin to express
myself! "Out of the chapel came the Father Superior. He knows us very well, for
we have often visited the island; he always offers us some refreshment, a cup of
mass wine, or a dish of fruit, and so he did on this occasion. We were in no
hurry to leave the shore and so accepted his invitation to be seated under the
trees while he ordered the repast. "Presently he returned and was shortly
followed by a young friar whom we had never seen before; there are not many of
them there--a dozen perhaps--and their faces are more or less familiar to us,
for even we poor women may kneel without the gratings in their little chapel,
and so we have learned to know the faces we have seen there in the choir. But
this one was quite new to us and so striking; his eyes were ever raised; he
offered us a dish of bread and olives, while the abbot poured our wine, and the
very moment we had served ourselves he quietly withdrew. "I could think of but
one thing--indeed we all thought of it at the same moment--'tis Browning's--

"'What's become of Waring     Since he gave us all the slip?'" "You know the
lines well enough. Why did we think of it?--because we were all startled, so
startled that the abbot who usually sees us to our gondola, made his abrupt
adieus, on some slight pretext, and the door of the monastery was bolted fast.
"Oh, me! How long it takes to tell a little tale--to be sure! We knew that face,
the face of the young friar; we knew the hand--it was unmistakable; we have all
agreed upon it and are ready to swear to it on our oaths! That novice was none
other than Paul Clitheroe!" A LITTLE SAVAGE GENTLEMAN

BY

ISOBEL STRONG

Reprinted from _Scribner's Magazine_ by permission

"IF YOU want a child as badly as all that," my brother said, "why not adopt a
chief's son, some one who is handsome and well-born, and will be a credit to
you, instead of crying your eyes out over a little common brat who is an
ungrateful cub, and ugly into the bargain?" I wasn't particularly fond of the
"common brat," but I had grown used to tending him, bandaging his miserable
little foot and trying to make his lot easier to bear; and he had been spirited
away. One may live long in Samoa without understanding the whys and wherefores.
His mother may have been jealous of my care of the child and carried him away in
the night; or the clan to which he belonged may have sent for him, though his
reputed father was our assistant cook. At any rate, he had gone--departed as
completely and entirely as though he had vanished into thin air, and I, sitting
on the steps of the veranda, gave way to tears. Two days later, as I hastened
across the courtyard, I turned the corner suddenly, nearly falling over a small
Samoan boy, who stood erect in a gallant pose before the house, leaning upon a
long stick of sugar-cane, as though it were a spear. "Who are you?" I asked, in
the native language. "I am your son," was the surprising reply. "And what is
your name?" "Pola," he said. "Pola, of Tanugamanono, and my mother is the white
chief lady, Teuila of Vailima." He was a beautiful creature, of an even tint of
light bronze-brown; his slender body reflected the polish of scented cocoanut
oil, the tiny garment he called his _lava-lava_ fastened at the waist was
coquettishly kilted above one knee. He wore a necklace of scarlet berries across
his shoulders, and a bright red hibiscus flower stuck behind his ear. On his
round, smooth cheek a single rose-leaf hid the dimple. His large black eyes
looked up at me with an expression of terror, overcome by pure physical courage.
From the top of his curly head to the soles of his high-arched slender foot he
looked _tama'alii_--high-bred. To all my inquiries he answered in purest high-
chief Samoan that he was my son. My brother came to the rescue with
explanations. Taking pity on me, he had gone to our village (as we called
Tanugamanono) and adopted the chief's second son in my name, and here he was
come to present himself in person. I shook hands with him, a ceremony he
performed very gracefully with great dignity. Then he offered me the six feet of
sugar-cane, with the remark that it was a small, trifling gift, unworthy of my
high-chief notice. I accepted it with a show of great joy and appreciation,
though by a turn of the head one could see acres of sugar-cane growing on the
other side of the river. There was an element of embarrassment in the possession
of this charming creature. I could not speak the Samoan language very well at
that time, and saw, by his vague but polite smile, that much of my conversation
was incomprehensible to him. His language to me was so extremely "high-chief"
that I couldn't understand more than three words in a sentence. What made the
situation still more poignant was that look of repressed fear glinting in the
depths of his black velvety eyes. I took him by the hand (that trembled slightly
in mine, though he walked boldly along with me) and led him about the house,
thinking the sight of all the wonders of Vailima might divert his mind. When I
threw open the door of the hall, with its pictures and statues, waxed floor and
glitter of silver on the sideboard, Pola made the regulation quotation from
Scripture, "And behold the half has not been told me." He went quite close to
the tiger-skin, with the glass eyes and big teeth. "It is not living?" he asked,
and when I assured him it was dead he remarked that it was a large pussy, and
then added, gravely, that he supposed the forests of London were filled with
these animals. He held my hand quite tightly going up the stairs, and I realized
then that he could never have mounted a staircase before. Indeed, everything in
the house, even chairs and tables, books and pictures, were new and strange to
this little savage gentleman. I took him to my room, where I had a number of
letters to write. He sat on the floor at my feet very obediently while I went on
with my work. Looking down a few minutes later I saw that he had fallen asleep,
lying on a while rug in a childish, graceful attitude, and I realized again his
wild beauty and charm. Late in the day, as it began to grow dark, I asked Pola
if he did not want to go home. "No, Teuila," he answered, bravely. "But you will
be my boy just the same," I explained. "Only you see Tumau (his real mother)
will be lonely at first. So you can sleep at the village and come and see me
during the day." His eyes lit up with that and the first smile of the day
overspread his face, showing the whitest teeth imaginable. It was not long
before he was perfectly at home in Vailima. He would arrive in the morning
early, attended by a serving-man of his family, who walked meekly in the young
chief's footsteps, carrying the usual gift for me. Sometimes it was sugar-cane,
or a wreath woven by the village girls, or a single fish wrapped in a piece of
banana-leaf, or a few fresh water prawns, or even a bunch of wayside flowers; my
little son seldom came empty-handed. It was Pola who really taught me the Samoan
language. Ordinarily the natives cannot simplify their remarks for foreigners,
but Pola invented a sort of Samoan baby-talk for me; sometimes, if I could not
understand, he would shake me with his fierce little brown hands, crying,
"Stupid, stupid!" But generally he was extremely patient with me, trying a
sentence in half a dozen different ways, with his bright eyes fixed eagerly on
my face, and when the sense of what he said dawned upon me and I repeated it to
prove that I understood, his own countenance would light up with an expression
of absolute pride and triumph. "Good!" he would say, approvingly. "Great is your
high-chief wisdom!" Once we spent a happy afternoon together in the forest
picking up queer land-shells, bright berries and curious flowers, while Pola dug
up a number of plants by the roots. I asked him the next day what he had done
with the beautiful red flowers. His reply was beyond me, so I shook my head. He
looked at me anxiously for a moment with that worried expression that so often
crossed his face in conversation with me, and, patting the floor, scraped up an
imaginary hole, "They sit down in the dusty," he said in baby Samoan. "Where?" I
asked. "In front of Tumau." And then I understood that he had planted them in
the ground before his mother's house. Another time he came up all laughter and
excitement to tell of an adventure. "Your brother," he said, "the high-chief
Loia, he of the four eyes (eye-glasses), came riding by the village as I was
walking up to Vailima. He offered me a ride on his chief-horse and gave me his
chief-hand. I put my foot on the stirrup, and just as I jumped the horse shied,
and, as I had hold of the high-chief Loia, we both fell off into the road
_palasi_." "Yes," I said, "you both fell off. That was very funny." "_Palasi_!"
he reiterated. But here I looked doubtful. Pola repeated his word several times
as though the very sound ought to convey some idea to my bemuddled brain, and
then a bright idea struck him. I heard his bare feet pattering swiftly down the
stairs. He came flying back, still laughing, and laid a heavy dictionary in my
lap. I hastily turned the leaves, Pola questing in each one like an excited
little dog, till I found the definition of his word, "to fall squash like a ripe
fruit on the ground." "_Palasi_!" he cried, triumphantly, when he saw I
understood, making a gesture downward with both hands, the while laughing
heartily. "We both fell off _palasi_!" It was through Pola that I learned all
the news of Tanugamanono. He would curl up on the floor at my feet as I sat in
my room sewing, and pour forth an endless stream of village gossip. How Mata,
the native parson, had whipped his daughter for going to a picnic on Sunday and
drinking a glass of beer. "Her father went whack! whack!" Pola illustrated the
scene with gusto, "and Maua cried, ah! ah! But the village says Mata is right,
for we must not let the white man's evil come near us." "Evil?" I said; "what
evil?" "Drink," said Pola, solemnly. Then he told how "the ladies of
Tanugamanono" bought a pig of Mr. B., a trader, each contributing a dollar until
forty dollars were collected. There was to be a grand feast among the ladies on
account of the choosing of a maid or _taupo_, the young girl who represents the
village on all state occasions. When the pig came it turned out to be an old
boar, so tough and rank it could not be eaten. The ladies were much ashamed
before their guests, and asked the white man for another pig, but he only
laughed at them. He had their money, so he did not care, "That was very, very
bad of him," I exclaimed, indignantly. "It is the way of white people," said
Pola, philosophically. It was through my little chief that we learned of a bit
of fine hospitality. It seems that pigs were scarce in the village, so each
house-chief pledged himself to refrain from killing one of them for six months.
Any one breaking this rule agreed to give over his house to be looted by the
village. Pola came up rather late one morning, and told me, hilariously, of the
fun they had had looting Tupuola's house. "But Tupuola is a friend of ours," I
said. "I don't like to hear of all his belongings being scattered." "It is all
right," Pola explained. "Tupuola said to the village, 'Come and loot. I have
broken the law and I will pay the forfeit.'" "How did he break the law?" I
asked. "When the high-chief Loia, your brother of the four eyes, stopped the
night at Tanugamanono, on his way to the shark fishing, he stayed with Tupuola,
so of course it was chiefly to kill a pig in his honor." "But it was against the
law. My brother would not have liked it, and Tupuola must have felt badly to
know his house was to be looted." "He would have felt worse," said Pola, "to
have acted unchiefly to a friend." We never would have known of the famine in
Tanugamanono if it had not been for Pola. The hurricane had blown off all the
young nuts from the cocoanut palms and the fruit from the breadfruit trees,
while the taro was not yet ripe. We passed the village daily. The chief was my
brother's dear friend; the girls often came up to decorate the place for a
dinner party, but we had no hint of any distress in the village. One morning I
gave Pola two large ship's biscuits from the pantry. "Be not angry," said Pola,
"but I prefer to carry these home." "Eat them," I said, "and I will give you
more." Before leaving that night he came to remind me of this. I was swinging in
a hammock reading a novel when Pola came to kiss my hand and bid me good night.
"_Love_," I said, "_Talofa_." "_Soifua_," Pola replied, "may you sleep;" and
then he added, "Be not angry, but the biscuits----"

"Are you hungry?" I asked. "Didn't you have your dinner?" "Oh, yes, plenty of
pea-soupo" (a general name for anything in tins); "but you said, in your high-
chief kindness, that if I ate the two biscuits you would give me more to take
home." "And you ate them?" He hesitated a perceptible moment, and then said:

"Yes, I ate them." He looked so glowing and sweet, leaning forward to beg a
favor, that I suddenly pulled him to me by his bare, brown shoulders for a kiss.
He fell against the hammock and two large round ship's biscuits slipped from
under his _lava-lava_. "Oh, Pola!" I cried, reproachfully. It cut me to the
heart that he should lie to me. He picked them up in silence, repressing the
tears that stood in his big black eyes, and turned to go. I felt there was
something strange in this, one of those mysterious Samoan affairs that had so
often baffled me. "I will give you two more biscuits," I said, quietly, "if you
will explain why you told a wicked lie and pained the heart that loved you."
"Teuila," he cried, anxiously, "I love you. I would not pain your heart for all
the world. But they are starving in the village. My father, the chief, divides
the food, so that each child and old person and all shall share alike, and today
there was only green baked bananas, two for each, and tonight when I return
there will be again a division of one for each member of the village. It seems
hard that I should come here and eat and eat, and my brother and my two little
sisters, and the good Tumau also, should have only one banana. So I thought I
would say to you, 'Behold, I have eaten the two biscuits,' and then you would
give me two more and that would be enough for one each to my two sisters and
Tumau and my brother, who is older than I." That night my brother went down to
the village and interviewed the chief. It was all true, as Pola had said, only
they had been too proud to mention it. Mr. Stevenson sent bags of rice and kegs
of beef to the village, and gave them permission to dig for edible roots in our
forest, so they were able to tide over until the taro and yams were ripe. Pola
always spoke of Vailima as "our place," and Mr. Stevenson as "my chief." I had
given him a little brown pony that exactly matched his own skin. A missionary,
meeting him in the forest road as he was galloping along like a young centaur,
asked, "Who are you?" "I," answered Pola, reining in his pony with a gallant
air, "am one of the Vailima men!" He proved, however, that he considered himself
a true Samoan by a conversation we had together once when we were walking down
to Apia. We passed a new house where a number of half-caste carpenters were
briskly at work. "See how clever these men are, Pola," I said, "building the
white man's house. When you get older perhaps I will have you taught
carpentering, that you may build houses and make money." "Me?" asked Pola,
surprised. "Yes," I replied. "Don't you think that would be a good idea?" "I am
the son of a chief," said Pola. "I know," I said, "that your highness is a very
great personage, but all the same it is good to know how to make money. Wouldn't
you like to be a carpenter?" "No," said Pola, scornfully, adding, with a wave of
his arm that took in acres of breadfruit trees, banana groves, and taro patches,
"Why should I work? All this land belongs to me." Once, when Pola had been
particularly adorable, I told him, in a burst of affection, that he could have
anything in the world he wanted, only begging him to name it. He smiled, looked
thoughtful for an instant, and then answered, that of all things in the world,
he would like ear-rings, like those the sailors wear. I bought him a pair the
next time I went to town. Then, armed with a cork and a needleful of white silk,
I called Pola, and asked if he wanted the ear-rings badly enough to endure the
necessary operation. He smiled and walked up to me. "Now, this is going to hurt,
Pola," I said. He stood perfectly straight when I pushed the needle through his
ear and cut off a little piece of silk. I looked anxiously in his face as he
turned his head for me to pierce the other one. I was so nervous that my hands
trembled. "Are you _sure_ it does not hurt, Pola, my pigeon?" I asked, and I
have never forgotten his answer. "My father is a soldier," he said. Pola's dress
was a simple garment, a square of white muslin hemmed by his adopted mother.
Like all Samoans, he was naturally very clean, going with the rest of the
"Vailima men" to swim in the waterfall twice a day. He would wash his hair in
the juice of wild oranges, clean his teeth with the inside husk of the cocoanut,
and, putting on a fresh _lava-lava_, would wash out the discarded one in the
river, laying it out in the sunshine to dry. He was always decorated with
flowers in some way--a necklace of jessamine buds, pointed red peppers, or the
scarlet fruit of the pandanas. Little white boys looked naked without their
clothes, but Pola in a strip of muslin, with his wreath of flowers, or sea-
shells, some ferns twisted about one ankle, perhaps, or a boar's tusk fastened
to his left arm with strands of horse-hair, looked completely, even handsomely,
dressed. He was not too proud to lend a helping hand at any work going--setting
the table, polishing the floor of the hall or the brass handles of the old
cabinet, leading the horses to water, carrying pails for the milkmen, helping
the cook in the kitchen, the butler in the pantry, or the cowboy in the fields;
holding skeins of wool for Mr. Stevenson's mother, or trotting beside the lady
of the house, "Tamaitai," as they all called her, carrying seeds or plants for
her garden. When my brother went out with a number of natives laden with
surveying implements, Pola only stopped long enough to beg for a cane-knife
before he was leading the party. If Mr. Stevenson called for his horse and
started to town it was always Pola who flew to open the gate for him, waving a
"_Talofa_!" and "Good luck to the traveling!" The Samoans are not reserved, like
the Indians, or haughty, like the Arabs. They are a cheerful, lively people, who
keenly enjoy a joke, laughing at the slightest provocation. Pola bubbled over
with fun, and his voice could be heard chattering and singing gaily at any hour
of the day. He made up little verses about me, which he sang to the graceful
gestures of the Siva or native dance, showing unaffected delight when commended.
He cried out with joy and admiration when he first heard a hand-organ, and was
excitedly happy when allowed to turn the handle. I gave him a box of tin
soldiers, which he played with for hours in my room. He would arrange them on
the floor, talking earnestly to himself in Samoan. "These are brave brown men,"
he would mutter. "They are fighting for Mata'afa. Boom! Boom! These are white
men. They are fighting the Samoans. Pouf!" And with a wave of his arm he knocked
down a whole battalion, with the scornful remark, "All white men are cowards."
After Mr. Stevenson's death so many of his Samoan friends begged for his
photograph that we sent to Sydney for a supply, which was soon exhausted. One
afternoon Pola came in and remarked, in a very hurt and aggrieved manner, that
he had been neglected in the way of photographs. "But your father, the chief,
has a large fine one." "True," said Pola. "But that is not mine. I have the box
presented to me by your high-chief goodness. It has a little cover, and there I
wish to put the sun-shadow of Tusitala, the beloved chief whom we all revere,
but I more than the others because he was the head of my clan." "To be sure," I
said, and looked about for a photograph. I found a picture cut from a weekly
paper, one I remember that Mr. Stevenson himself had particularly disliked. He
would have been pleased had he seen the scornful way Pola threw the picture on
the floor. "I will not have that!" he cried. "It is pig-faced. It is not the
shadow of our chief." He leaned against the door and wept. "I have nothing else,
Pola," I protested. "Truly, if I had another picture of Tusitala I would give it
to you." He brightened up at once. "There is the one in the smoking-room," he
said, "where he walks back and forth. That pleases me, for it looks like him."
He referred to an oil painting of Mr. Stevenson by Sargent. I explained that I
could not give him that. "Then I will take the round one," he said, "of tin."
This last was the bronze _bas-relief_ by St. Gaudens. I must have laughed
involuntarily, for he went out deeply hurt. Hearing a strange noise in the hall
an hour or so later, I opened the door, and discovered Pola lying on his face,
weeping bitterly. "What _are_ you crying about?" I asked. "The shadow, the
shadow," he sobbed. "I want the sun-shadow of Tusitala." I knocked at my
mother's door across the hall, and at the sight of that tear-stained face her
heart melted, and he was given the last photograph we had, which he wrapped in a
banana-leaf, tying it carefully with a ribbon of grass. We left Samoa after Mr.
Stevenson's death, staying away for more than a year. Pola wrote me letters by
every mail in a large round hand, but they were too conventional to bear any
impress of his mind. He referred to our regretted separation, exhorting me to
stand fast in the high-chief will of the Lord, and, with his love to each member
of the family, mentioned by name and title, he prayed that I might live long,
sleep well, and not forget Pola, my unworthy servant. When we returned to Samoa
we were up at dawn, on shipboard, watching the horizon for the first faint cloud
that floats above the island of Upulu. Already the familiar perfume came
floating over the waters--that sweet blending of many odors, of cocoanut-oil and
baking breadfruit, of jessamine and gardenia. It smelt of home to us, leaning
over the rail and watching. First a cloud, then a shadow growing more and more
distinct until we saw the outline of the island. Then, as we drew nearer, the
deep purple of the distant hills, the green of the rich forests, and the silvery
ribbons where the waterfalls reflect the sunshine. Among the fleet of boats
skimming out to meet us was one far ahead of the others, a lone canoe propelled
by a woman, with a single figure standing in the prow. As the steamer drew near
I made out the figure of Pola, dressed in wreaths and flowers in honor of my
return. As the anchor went down in the bay of Apia and the custom-house officer
started to board, I called out, begging him to let the child come on first. He
drew aside. The canoe shot up to the gangway, and Pola, all in his finery of
fresh flowers, ran up the gangway and stepped forth on the deck. The passengers
drew back before the strange little figure, but he was too intent upon finding
me to notice them. "Teuila!" he cried, joyfully, with the tears rolling down his
cheeks. I went forward to meet him, and, kneeling on the deck, caught him in my
arms. LOVE AND ADVERTISING

BY

RICHARD WALTON TULLY

Reprinted from _The Cosmopolitan Magazine_ of April, 1906 by permission

I DO NOT demand," said Mr. Pepper, "I simply suggest a change. If you wish me to
resign"--his self-deprecatory manner bespoke an impossible supposition--"very
well. But, if you see fit to find me a new assistant----" He paused, with an
interrogatory cough. It was the senior partner who answered, "We shall consider
the matter." The advertising manager's lean face took on an expression of
satisfaction. He bowed and disappeared through the door. Young Kaufmann, the
junior partner, smiled covertly. But the elder man's face bespoke keen
disappointment. For it must be explained that Mr. Pepper's simple announcement
bore vitally upon the only dissension that had ever visited the firm of Kaufmann
& Houghton during the thirty years of its existence. In 1875, when John
Houghton, fresh from college, had come to New York to find his fortune, the
elder Kaufmann had been a candy manufacturer with a modest trade on the East
Side. Young Houghton had taken the agency of a glucose firm. The disposal of
this product had brought the two together, with the result that a partnership
had been formed to carry on a wholesale confectionery business. Success in this
venture had led to new and more profitable fields--the chewing-gum trade. The
rise to wealth of these two was the result of the careful plodding of the German
workman, who kept the "K. & H." products up to an unvarying standard, joined
with the other's energy and acumen in marketing the output. And this mutual
relation had been disturbed by but one difference. When Houghton was disposed to
consider a college man for a vacancy, Kaufmann had always been ready with his
"practical man dot has vorked hiss vay." And each time, in respect to his
wishes, Houghton had given in, reflecting that perhaps (as Kaufmann said) it had
been that he, himself, was a good business man in spite of his college training,
not because of it; and, after all, college ideals had sunk since _his_ time. And
the college applicant had been sent away. Young Johann Kaufmann graduated from
grammar school. Houghton suggested high school and college. "Vat? Nein!" said
the elder Kaufmann. "I show him how better the gum to make." And he did. He put
on an apron as of yore and started his son under his personal supervision in the
washing-room. He took off his apron when Johann knew all about handling chicle
products, from importing-bag to tin-foil wrapper. Then he died. And this year
troublesome conditions had come on. The Consolidated Pepsin people were cutting
in severely. Orders for the great specialty of K. & H.--"Old Tulu"--had fallen.
Something had to be done. Houghton, now senior partner, had proposed, and young
Kaufmann agreed, that an advertising expert be secured. But the agreement ended
there. For the first words of the junior partner showed Houghton that the spirit
of the father was still sitting at that desk opposite, and smiling the same fat,
phlegmatic smile at his supposed weakness for "dose college bitzness." They had
compromised upon Mr. Pepper, secured from Simpkins' Practical Advertising
School. But at the end of six months, Pepper's so-called "follow-up campaign"
had failed to meet materially the steady inroads of the western men. He had
explained that it was the result of his need of an assistant. It was determined
to give him one. Then, one night as he sat in his library, John Houghton had
looked into a pair of blue eyes and promised to "give Tom Brainard the chance."
In consequence he had had his hair tousled, been given a resounding kiss and a
crushing hug from the young lady on his knees. For Dorothy Houghton, despite her
nineteen years, still claimed that privilege from her father. In that way, for
the first time, a college man had come into the employ of K. & H., and been made
the assistant of Mr. Pepper at the salary he demanded--"any old thing to start
the ball rolling." And now had come the information that the senior partner's
long-desired experiment had ended in failure. Young Kaufmann turned to his work
with the air of one who has given a child its own way and seen it come to grief.
"I--I suppose," Houghton said slowly, "we'll have to let Brainard go." And then
a peculiar thing happened. Through the open window, floating in the summer air,
he seemed to see a familiar figure. It was dressed in fluffy white, and carried
a parasol over its shoulders. It fluttered calmly in, seated itself on the sill,
and gazed at him with blue eyes that were serious, reproachful. "Daddy!" it
said, and it brushed away a wisp of hair by its ear--just as another one, long
ago, had used to. "Daddy!" it faltered. "Why did I ask you to give him the
place, if it wasn't because--because----"

The spell was broken by Kaufmann's voice. "Whatefer you do, I am sooted," he was
saying. It might have been his father. "But if w'at Pepper says about
Brainard----"

The senior partner straightened up and pushed a button. "Yes. But We haven't
heard what Brainard says about Pepper." Several moments later Tom Brainard
entered. Medium-sized and muscular, he was dressed in a loose-fitting suit that
by its very cut told his training. He stood between them as Mr. Pepper had done,
but there was nothing of the other's ingratiating deference in his level look.
"Sit down, Brainard," said Houghton. The newcomer did so, and the senior partner
marked an attitude of laziness and indifference. Houghton became stern.
"Brainard," he began, "I gave you a chance with us because----" He paused. The
other colored. "I had hoped to make good without that." "But this morning Mr.
Pepper----"

"Said we couldn't get along together. That's true." "Ah! You admit!" It was
Kaufmann. "Yes." There was a pause. Then Houghton spoke. "I can't tell you how
much this disappoints me, Brainard. The fact is, for years I have tried to shut
my eyes to the development of college training. In my time there was not the
call for practicality that there is today. Yet it seems to me that the training
in our colleges has grown less and less practical. Why do the colleges turn out
men who spend their time in personal gossip over sport or trivialities?" "You
remember that the King of Spain--or was it Cambodia--puzzled his wise men for a
year as to why a fish, when dropped into a full pail of water, didn't make it
overflow." "What's that got to do with it?" "Because I must answer as the king
did: It's not so--the pail _does_ overflow. They hadn't thought to try it." "You
mean that I am wrong." "Yes. Are you sure your gossips were 'college men'?"
"Ah!" Houghton made a gesture to his partner, who was about to speak. "Then let
us commence at the root of the matter. Mr. Kaufmann and I have often discussed
the subject. In this case you are the one who has 'tried it.' Suppose you
explain our mistake." "I'd be glad to do that," said Brainard, "because I've
heard a lot of that talk." "Well?" "Well--of course when I say 'college man' I
mean college graduate." "Why?" "If a kitten crawls into an oven, is it a
biscuit?" There was an earnestness that robbed the question of any flippancy.
Houghton laughed. "No!" "If a dub goes into college and gets flunked out in a
month, is he a college man?" "Hardly." "Oh, but he calls himself one. He goes to
Podunk all decorated up in geraniums and the rest of his life is a 'college
man.' I'm not talking about him or the man who comes to college to learn to mix
cocktails--inside. He may last to the junior year. I'm talking about the
graduate--they're only about a tenth of the college. But they're the finished
product. Mr. Kaufmann, you wouldn't try to sell gum that had only gone as far as
the rolling-room, would you?" "W'at--me?" "Would you?" "No." The junior partner
was puzzled. "That's because you want it to go through all the processes. Well,
let's talk only about the boy who has gone all the way through the man factory."
Houghton nodded. "That's fair." "The trouble is, people don't do that. They
persist in butting into the college world, jerking out some sophomore
celebration, and saying, 'What use is this silly thing in the real world?'"
"Well, aren't they right?" "No. That's just the point. The college world is a
mimic world--and your lifetime is just four years. The sophomore celebration is
a practical thing there; perhaps it's teaching loyalty--that generally comes
first. That's your college rolling-room. But the graduate--he's learned to do
_something_ well. I never knew a college man who wasn't at least responsible."
"But----"

"But here's the trouble: after selecting say two hundred fellows out of an
entering bunch of six hundred, and developing the thing each is best fitted for,
_father_ steps in and the boy who would have made a first-class professor is put
into business and blamed for being impractical. The fellow who has been handling
thousands of dollars in college management and running twenty assistants--the
man who could have taken the place--has no father to give him the boost
necessary, and the other man's failure has queered his chances. He has to go to
work as a mere clerk under a man--excuse me, I don't want to do any knocking."
"You think the whole trouble is caused by misdirected nepotism." "Yes." "Ah----"
It was young Kaufmann again. "But you said that you were trained in advertising
on your college paper." "Yes--and I was going to tell you today, if Mr. Pepper
hadn't, that the money you're paying for me is utterly wasted." "Ah!" "Yes. I
can't look in the face of a hungry designer and beat him down to within a dollar
of the cost of materials. And--and--my suggestions upon broader lines don't seem
to cause much hooray." "Well--" the junior partner sat up--"since you admit----"
He paused for his partner to speak the words of discharge. But Houghton was
looking quizzically at the college man. "What was your idea as to broader
lines?" Brainard hesitated. "Well, it seemed to me that Pepper is trying to do
two things that are antagonistic: be _'elite'_ and sell chewing-gum. The fact is
that _elite_ people don't chew gum. I'd like to know how the statement, 'Old
Tulu--Best by Test,' will make a kid on the corner with a cent in his fist have
an attack of mouth-watering." Kaufmann roused himself. "It is true. Our gum _is_
the best." "I'm not disputing that, but still it's _gum_. If you're trying to
increase the vulgar habit of gum-chewing--well--you can't do it by advertising
the firm's financial standing, its age, or the purity of its output. That would
do for an insurance company or a bank--but _gum_! Who cares for purity! All they
want to know is if it _schmeckt gut_." This last with a humorous glance at
Kaufmann. The latter was scowling. Brainard was touching a tender spot. "Well,
what would you do?" Brainard flushed. He felt the tone of sarcasm in the elder
man's voice. He tightened his lips. "At least, I'd change the name of the gum!"
"Change the name!" Kaufmann was horrified. "Well, nobody wants 'Old Tulu.' They
want 'New Tulu' or 'Fresh Tasty Tulu.' At least, something to appeal to the
imagination of Sadie-at-the-ribbon-counter." "Oh!" observed Houghton. "And the
name you suggest?" "Well,--say something like 'Lulu Tulu.'" "Gott!" Kaufmann
struck the desk a blow with his fist. It was an insult to his father's memory.
Brainard rose. "I'm sorry," he said, "if I have offended. To save you any
further bother, I'll just cut it out after Saturday. I--thank you for the
chance"--he smiled a little ruefully--"the chance you have given me. Good day,
gentlemen." He turned on his heel and left the office. *       *       *       *
*

As John Houghton was driven home that night, he became suddenly conscious that
he would soon meet the apparition of the afternoon in the flesh. And though, of
course, there was no need, he found himself rehearsing the justification of his
position. "Lulu Tulu" indeed! Imagine the smile that would have illumined the
faces at the club on such an announcement. The impudence of the boy to have
suggested it to him--him who had so often held forth upon the value of
conservatism in business! And he remembered with pride the speaker who had once
said, "It is such solid vertebrae as Mr. Houghton that form the backbone of our
business world." That speaker had been Bender, of the New York Dynamo Company.
Poor Bender! The Western Electric Construction had got him after all. This line
of thought caused Houghton to reach in his pocket and produce a letter. He went
over the significant part again. "Our Mr. Byrnes reports the clinching of the
subway vending-machine contract," it read, "and this, together with our other
business, will give us over half of the New York trade. With this statement
before us, we feel that we can make a winning fight if you still refuse to
consider our terms. In view of recent developments, we cannot repeat our former
offer but if you will consider sixty-seven as a figure----"

Sixty-seven! And a year before he would not have taken one hundred and ten! In
the bitterness of the moment, he wondered if he, too, would finally go the way
that Bender had. And then, as the butler swung the door back, he was recalled to
the matter of Tom Brainard by the sight of a familiar figure that floated toward
him as airily as had its astral self that afternoon. He kissed her and went to
his study. Just before dinner was not a time to discuss such things. But later,
as he looked across the candelabra at his daughter, all smiles and happiness in
that seat that had been her mother's, he regretted that he had not, for----

"Daddy," Dorothy was saying, "I got such a funny note from Tom this afternoon.
He says there has been a change at the office and that you will explain." "Yes."
"Well----?" She paused eagerly. "It's something awfully good--I know." Her
father frowned and caught her eye. "Later," he said significantly. The girl read
the tone, and the gaiety of the moment before was gone. After that they ate in
silence. One cigar--two cigars had been smoked when she stole into the library.
Since coffee (whether from design or chance he never knew), she had rearranged
her hair. Now it was low on her neck in a fashion of long ago, with a single
curl that strayed over a white shoulder to her bosom. She knelt at his side
without a word. He looked down at her. Somehow he had never seen her like this
before--that curious womanly expression. "Tell me," was all she said. And, as he
told Tom Brainard's failure to fit in, he watched her closely. "I'm sorry," he
concluded. "So am I, daddy," she returned steadily; "because I am going to marry
him." "What?" "Oh, you knew--you must have," she said, "when I asked you to give
him the chance." The father was silent. In fancy he again heard Dolly Warner
promising, against her parents' advice, to wait for her John to "get on in the
world." "Well?" he asked. "Do you think you've given him a fair chance?" He was
restored to his usual poise. "I suppose he complained that I didn't." Dorothy's
eyes went wide. "No, he said that after I had heard the news from you, he would
leave everything to me." "Oh!" "But, father, I don't think you _have_ been fair.
Tom is right. _I_ don't chew gum, do I?" "Well----" He was indignant. Then he
stopped thoughtfully. "No." "But Mary downstairs does. She wouldn't be offended
at 'Lulu Tulu.' I dare say she'd think it 'just grand.'" He returned no answer.
"Come, daddy," she went on. "New York has grown lots--even since I was little.
And--and some people get behind the times. They think they're being dignified
when it's only that they're antiquated." He looked shrewdly at her. "I never
heard you talk like that before. Where did you----"

"Tom said that a week ago," she admitted. "And he said, too, that he could
double the results if he only had full swing. Instead, you admit he's a mere
clerk for that horrid Pepper. Oh, daddy, daddy," she pleaded. "Give him a
chance." Then her voice went low again. "I'm going to marry him anyway," she
said, "and you don't want this between. If he fails, I'll stand the loss from
what mother left me. Give him full swing--a real chance, daddy! He's going to be
--_your son_." John Houghton looked into the earnest girlish face. He wound the
curl about his finger. "Kaufmann has always wanted to visit the Fatherland," he
said irrelevantly. She gave a quick, eager look. "And that Pepper could go on a
vacation." *       *       *       *       *

Days drag very slowly at a summer resort, especially when one has promised not
to write to him. But Dorothy's father had kept his word, so she could but do the
same. Behind, in the sweltering city, in full charge for six weeks was Tom
Brainard. His authority included permission to invent and use any new labels or
trade-marks he saw fit. The girl at the seashore, however, was also busy--
amusing her father that he might not give too much time to thinking. And then,
when three of the six weeks had passed, came the accident to the motor car. She
was told that with rest and no worries, her father would recover in a week or
two. She cheerfully fitted into the role of assistant to the nurse in charge,
and, as soon as the doctor allowed, prepared to read his mail to him as he lay,
eyes and head bandaged. But as she opened and glanced over the accumulated
letters, she suddenly went pale. She read one in particular from end to end, and
then, with a scared, furtive look at the bandaged figure, slipped it into a
pocket. Later, when her father had finished dictating to her, she answered the
concealed letter herself. Again the days drifted. The bandages were removed; but
still the girl continued to scan the mail. Her vigilance was rewarded. She
flushed over a second letter which, with one in a worn envelope, she took to her
father. He saw the careworn expression. "My little girl has been overworking,"
he said. She held out the worn letter. "I've had this for some time--but--but I
waited for something more, and here it is." She showed the other. He took the
first, and when he had finished, his hand was trembling. "I regret to report
that things are in a chaos," it ran. "All of the regular advertising has been
withdrawn. The usual entertainment money for salesmen classed under this head
has been stopped. In consequence, our city trade has tumbled fearfully--and you
know how bad it was before. The worst news I have to offer is in regard to Mr.
Brainard personally. Our detective reports that his time outside is spent in
most questionable company. He has been seen drinking at roof-gardens with a
certain dissipated pugilist named Little Sullivan, and was traced with this man
to the apartment of a song-and-dance woman named Violette. He seems to be
spending money extravagantly and visits certain bohemian quarters in the
vicinity of Jones Street, where he puts in his time with disreputable-looking
men. I beg leave to advise immediate action.--Mowbray." "My God!" groaned
Houghton. This explained that derisive offer of fifty-one from Consolidated
Pepsin. "And you kept this from me?" "They said not to worry you," she said. "I
--I've had enough for two. Besides, I answered it." "You did! What----?" "I told
them to wait a little longer." The father groaned again. "I just _had_ to,
daddy; and then today this letter came." He seized it eagerly. It read: "You
were right about waiting. Suspend all action." "What does it mean?" she asked.
"We'll find out tomorrow," he answered grimly. The 4:30 train gave John Houghton
just time to reach the office before it closed. Dorothy went home. Her father,
roused by the evil news of the day before, had impressed her with all that it
might mean in a material way. As though that mattered!--as though anything could
hurt her more! She would have been willing to go with Tom Brainard in rags
before--but now! She sat by the telephone with clenched fists, her traveling
veil still pushed up on her hat, the lines that had come into her face during
the past week deepening with the dusk. At last--a long, sharp ring! "Yes--father
--not dine at home--meet you at the Yolland--a guest. Yes--but about Tom--what?
--7:30--But about Tom, daddy? Good-by?!! But, daddy!!!" It was no use. He had
hung up. She called feverishly for the office, but the reply was, "They do not
answer." Mechanically she went up to her room. "The blue mousseline, Susan," she
said. As the maid laid it out, she walked the floor. Through the window the park
lay green and inviting. She longed to fly to the cool grass and run--and run----

From below came the loud, rasping notes of a street-piano that, in some
incomprehensible fashion, had wandered to the deserted row of houses. The noise,
for all that there was a pleasing swing to the air, irritated her. She threw the
man a quarter. "Go away," she waved. At last the maid said her mistress was
ready, and Dorothy, without questioning the decision, allowed herself to be put
into the brougham. The drive seemed hours long, and then--her father's face told
her nothing. Without a word, he led her to a reception-room. As they entered, a
figure sprang to meet them. For a moment she hesitated. Then, "Tom!" she cried,
and caught his hand. He saw the whiteness of her face, and all the yearnings of
their separation matched it upon his. "Dorothy!" he faltered. Her father
interrupted. "Tom is to explain how he has quadrupled our business in the last
week." A sudden weakness seized her. She followed them unsteadily. Seated at a
table, however, she was able to smile again. At that moment, the orchestra,
striking up, suddenly caught her attention. "Tum--tum-tum--tum-tum--tum"--that
haunting, swinging melody of the street-piano. "What tune is that?" she asked.
Brainard smiled. "_That_ is a tune that has suddenly become popular. Any night
you may see hundreds of East Side children dancing on the asphalt and singing
it." "Yes," she said. "I heard it on a street-piano." "It's called," he went on,
'"My Lulu Tulu Girl.' All the grinders have it. Billy Tompkins, Noughty-three,
who lives in the Jones Street social settlement, worked that for me. Those
dagoes worship him--saved a kid's life or something." A light came into John
Houghton's eyes. "That's part of the scheme. Aspwell wrote the song. I found him
down in bohemia working on an opera. But, for the sake of old days in the senior
extravaganza, he turned off 'My Lulu Tulu Girl.' You know those orders on your
desk are for our new brand, 'Lulu Tulu.' The song was introduced two weeks ago
at the Metropolitan Roof by Violette, a young lady who married our old football
trainer, Little Sullivan. We'll hear her later--I have tickets. Then we'll go to
Leith's; there's a turn there by 'Jim Bailey and his Six Lulu Tulu Girls'--
rather vulgar (while they dance they chew the gum and perform calisthenics with
it) but it seems to go. Then----"

"Tom!" "After we've dined, I'll show you our regular magazine and newspaper
advertising in the reading-room--double space. You see, I couldn't ask you to
increase, so I stopped it for a time and saved up. But I hope you'll stand for
it regularly. It's mainly pictures of Miss. Lulu Tulu in a large Florodora hat,
with verses below apostrophizing the poetry of motion of her jaws. Then there's
a line of limericks about the adventures of the 'Lulu Tulu Gummies'--small gum-
headed tykes--always in trouble until they find Lulu. I got Phillips to do that
as a personal favor." "Also Noughty-something, I suppose," remarked Houghton.
"Yes. But he graduated before my time. I knew his work in the college annual.
He's in the magazines now. Then I got Professor Wheaton--'Jimmy the Grind' we
used to call him--his folks wanted him to be a poet--imagine Jimmy a poet!--I
got Professor Wheaton to give us some readers on 'Tulu as a Salivary Stimulant,'
'The Healthful Effect of Pure Saliva on Food Products' and 'The Degenerative
Effect of Artificially Relieving an Organ of its Proper Functions.' That hits
the Pepsin people, you see----"

And so it ran--until he had covered his plan fully, and Dorothy's face with
happy smiles. "Tom," said the father, "if I had opened that letter instead of
Dolly!" Dorothy suddenly became demure under their gaze and sought to change the
subject. "Then you admit, daddy, that a college man is of some use?" "I'll admit
that Tom got the business. But that was because he is naturally clever and
business-like, not because----"

"Just a moment," said Brainard. "I think I can show that you're mistaken. I
found out that Pepper was doing the wrong thing--by the first rule of criticism
(freshman English): 'What is the author trying to do? Does he do it? Is it worth
doing?' Substitute 'advertising man' for 'author' and you have a business that
is worth doing (since you continue it)--and by the other two questions I saw his
incongruity of subject-matter and expression.' My economics taught me the 'law
of supply and demand.' 'Analytical research of original authorities' taught me
where the demand was. There was only the problem of a cause to stimulate it.
Through deductive logic' and 'psychology' I got the cause that would appeal, and
the effect worked out in an increased demand which we were ready to supply--just
like a problem in math." The elder man smiled. "I don't understand a word you
say, but it seems to have _worked_ well. In the future, bring in as many of your
Noughty friends as we need. I'll answer for Kaufmann." The other shook his head.
"I'm not sure they would be any too anxious." Houghton gasped in surprise.
"What's that--they wouldn't be anxious to go into _business_! Why not?" "Why
not?" There was equal amazement in the younger man's tone. "Would you be anxious
to leave a place where you're surrounded by friends you've tried--friends that
won't stab you in the back the next minute and call it a 'business deal'--where
you're respected and in control of things, and plunge out to become a freshman
in the world-life, to do the sorting and trying all over again?" "I remember--I
remember----"

"And besides, what right has any one to assume that _business_ is above art,
charity or even mere learning? Billy Tompkins, in the slums helping dagoes, is a
failure to his father--so is Aspwell with his opera--so is Williams with his
spectacles in his lab. But--who knows--when the Great Business is finally
balanced----" He stopped, conscious that he was growing too rhetorical. "If you
loved college ideals so much more than business," observed Houghton, "then why
did you come to us?" A different light stole into the younger man's eyes.
"Because"--he answered, "because I loved something else better than either." And
he reached his hand under the cloth to one who understood. That is all--except
that the next offer of Consolidated Pepsin was, "Will you please name your own
terms?" THE TEWANA

BY

HERMAN WHITAKER

Reprinted from _The Blue Mule_ _A Western Magazine of Stories_, of February,
1906 by permission

SHE WAS a Tewana of the Tehuantepec Isthmus, a primal woman, round-armed, deep-
breasted, shapely as the dream on which Canova modeled Venus. Her skin was of
the rich gold hue that marks the blood unmuddied by Spanish strain; to see her,
poised on a rich hip by the river's brink, wringing her tresses after the
morning bath, it were justifiable to mistake her for some beautiful bronze.
Moreover, it were easy to see her, for, in Tehuantepec, innocence is thoughtless
as in old Eden. When Paul Steiner passed her one morning, she gave him the
curious open-eyed stare of a deer, bade him a pleasant "_Buenos dias, Senor!_"
and would have proceeded, undisturbed, with her toilet, but that he spoke. In
this he was greatly mistaken. Gringos there are--praise the saints!--who can
judge Tehuantepec by the insight of kindred purity, but Paul had to learn by the
more uncomfortable method of a stone in the face. He ought not, however, to be
too severely handled for his dulness. Though a mining engineer, nature had
endowed him with little beyond the algebraic qualities necessary to the
profession; a German-American, a dull birth and heredity had predestined him for
that class which clothes its morality in fusty black and finds safety in
following its neighbor in the cut of its clothes and conduct. As then, he was
not planned for original thinking, it is not at all surprising that he should--
when pitchforked by Opportunity into the depths of tropical jungles--lose his
moral bearings, fail to recognize a virtue that went in her own golden skin, and
so go down before a temptation that, of old, populated the sexless desert. That
his error continued in the face of Andrea's stone is certainly more remarkable,
though this also should be charged rather against her mismarksmanship than to
the wearing quality of his electro-plate morality. It is doubtful if even the
ancient Jews had found "stoning" as efficacious a "cure for souls" had they
thrown wide as she. Anyway, Paul stood "unconvicted," as the revivalists have
it, and being moved to chagrin instead of shame, he carried the story of
Andrea's surprising modesty to Bachelder. Here was a man of other parts. An
artist, he had traced the spinning meridians over desert and sea, following the
fluttering wing of the muse till she rewarded his deathless hope by pausing for
him in this small Indian town. Expecting to stay a week, he had remained fifteen
years, failing to exhaust in that long time a tithe of its form and color.
Screened by tropical jungle, a mask of dark palms laced with twining _bejucas_,
it sat like a wonderfully blazoned cup in a wide green saucer that was edged
with the purple of low environing hills--a brimming cup of inspiration. Save
where some oaken grill supplied an ashen note, its adobe streets burned in
smoldering rose, purple and gold--the latter always predominant. It glowed in
the molten sunlight, shone in the soft satin of a woman's skin; the very dust
rose in auriferous clouds from the wooden-wheeled ox-carts. But for its magenta
tiling, the pillared market stood, a huge monochrome, its deep yellows splashed
here and there with the crimson of the female hucksters' dresses. This was their
every-day wear--a sleeveless bodice, cut low over the matchless amplitudes and
so short that the smooth waist showed at each uplift of the round, bronze arms;
a skirt that was little more than a cloth wound about the limbs; a shawl, all of
deep blood color. Small wonder that he had stayed on, and on, and on, while the
weeks merged into months, and months into years. He lived in the town's great
house, an old feudal hacienda with walls two yards thick, recessed windows oaken
grilled, and a pleasant patio where the hidalgo could take his ease under
cocoanut palms and lemon trees while governments went to smash without. Here
Bachelder was always to be found in the heat of the day, and here he listened
with huge disgust to Paul's story. Because of their faith, strength and purity--
according to their standards--he had always sworn by the Tewana women, setting
them above all others, and though a frank sinner against accepted moral codes,
he would never have confused nudity with vice. "Man!" he exclaimed--so loudly
that Rosa, his housekeeper, imagined that something was going wrong again with
the painting--"Man! all the dollars you will ever earn would buy nothing more
than her stone! If you want her, you will have to marry her." "Oh, don't look so
chopfallen!" he went on, scornfully, when Paul blinked. "I mean marriage as she
counts it. You will have to court her for a couple of months--flowers, little
gifts, small courtesies, that sort of thing; then, if she likes you, she will
come and keep your house. When, later, you feel like settling down in the bosom
of respectability, there won't be a shred of law to hold you." Now if Paul
lacked wit to analyze and apply to his own government a moral law that has
evolved from the painful travail of the generations, it does not follow that he
was too stupid to feel irony. Reddening, he put forth the usual declaimer of
honorable intention with the glib tongue of passion. He meant well by the girl!
Would give her a good home, find her better than she had ever been found in her
life! As for marrying? He was not of the marrying kind! Never would! and so on,
finishing with a vital question--did Bachelder know where she lived? His color
deepened under the artist's sarcastic glance. "So that's what you're after? I
wondered why you picked me for a father confessor. Well, I don't, but you won't
have any trouble in finding her. All the women sell something; she's sure to be
on the market in the morning. You will get her quite easily. The girls seem to
take pride in keeping a Gringo's house--I don't know why, unless it be that they
are so dazzled by the things we have that they cannot see us for what we are." *
*       *       *       *

A thousand crimson figures were weaving in and out the market's chrome pillars
when Paul entered next morning, but though it was hard to single one person from
the red confusion, luck led him almost immediately to where Andrea stood, a
basket of tortillas at her feet. Lacking customers, just then, she leaned
against a pillar, her scarlet flaming against its chrome, thoughtful, pensive,
as Bachelder painted her for "The Enganchada," the girl sold for debt. Her shawl
lay beside her basket, so her hair, that had flown loose since the morning bath,
fell in a cataract over the polished amplitudes of bosom and shoulders. Save
when feeling shot them with tawny flashes--as waving branches filter mottled
sunlight on brown waters--her eyes were dark as the pools of Lethe, wherein men
plunge and forget the past. They brought forgetfulness to Paul of his moral
tradition, racial pride, the carefully conned apology which he did not remember
until, an hour later, he fed her entire stock in trade to his dog. It was better
so. Black, brown or white women are alike sensitive to the language of flowers,
and the lilies he left in her basket served him more sweetly than could his
stammering tongue. Next morning, curiosity replaced hostility in her glance, and
when he left the market, her brown gaze followed him beyond the portals. Needs
not, however, to linger over the courtship. Sufficient that color of skin does
not affect the feminine trait that forgiveness comes easier when the offense was
provoked by one's own beauty; the story goes on from the time that Andrea moved
into his house with a stock of household gear that extorted musical exclamations
from all her girl friends. To their housekeeping Andrea contributed only her
handsome body with a contained cargo of unsuspected qualities and virtues that
simply dazzled Paul as they cropped out upon the surface. In public a Tewana
bears herself staidly, carrying a certain dignity of expression that of itself
reveals how, of old, her forbears came to place limits to the ambition of the
conquering Aztec and made even Spanish dominion little more than an
uncomfortable name. Though, through courtship, Andrea's stern composure had
shown no trace of a thaw, it yet melted like snow under a south wind when she
was once ensconced in their little home. Moreover, she unmasked undreamed of
batteries, bewildering Paul with infinite variety of feminine complexities. She
would be arch, gay, saucy, and in the next breath fall into one of love's warm
silences, watching him with eyes of molten bronze. She taught him the love of
the tropics without transcending modesty. Also she astonished him, negatively,
by the absence of those wide differences of nature and feeling between her and
the cultured women of his own land that reading in the primal school of fiction
had led him to expect. He learned from her that woman is always woman under any
clime or epoch. The greater strength of her physique lessened, perhaps, the
vine-like tendency, yet she clung sufficiently to satisfy the needs of his
masculinity; and she displayed the feminine unreason, at once so charming and
irritating, with sufficient coquetry to freshen her love. Her greatest charm,
however, lay in the dominant quality of brooding motherhood, the birthright of
primal women and the very essence of femininity. After one of those sweet
silences, she would steal on him from behind, and pull his head to her bosom
with such a squeeze as a loving mother gives her son. Yet, under even this mood,
her laughter lay close to the surface, and nothing tapped its merry flow quicker
than Paul's Spanish. Picking up the language haphazard, he had somehow learned
to apply the verb _tumblar_ to describe the pouring out of coffee, and he clung
to it after correction with a persistence that surely inhered in his dogged
German blood. "_Tumbarlo el cafe_!" he would say, and she would repeat it,
faithfully mimicking his accent. "Tumble out the coffee!" following it with
peals of laughter. Or, turning up a saucy face, she would ask, "Shall I tumble
out more coffee?" and again the laughter which came as readily at her own misfit
attempts at English. These, few and simple, were learned of Bachelder's woman,
and sprung on Paul as surprises on his return from visiting the mining
properties, which required his frequent presence. For instance, slipping to his
knee on one such occasion, with the great heart of her pulsing against him, she
sighed: "I love thee, lovest thou me?" A lesson from Bachelder pleased him less.
Knowing Paul's pride in his German ancestry, and having been present when, in
seasons of swollen pride, he had reflected invidiously in Andrea's presence on
Mexico and all things Mexican, the artist, in a wicked moment, taught her to
lisp "_Hoch der Kaiser_!" _lese-majeste_ that almost caused Paul a fainting-fit.
"You shouldn't have taught her that," he said to Bachelder. But the mischief was
done. Whenever, thereafter, through torment of insect or obsession of national
pride, he animadverted on her country, she silenced him with the treasonable
expression. She learned other than English from Bachelder's woman, sweating out
the dog days in Rosa's kitchen, experimenting with the barbaric dishes Gringos
love. She slaved for his comfort, keeping his linen, her house and self so
spotlessly clean that as Paul's passion waned, affection grew up in its place--
the respectful affection that, at home, would have afforded a permanent basis
for a happy marriage. When, a year later, their baby came, no northern benedict
could have been more proudly happy. Watching him playing with the child,
Bachelder would wonder if his union also would terminate like all the others of
his long experience. In her, for it was a girl baby, Paul's fairness worked out,
as she grew, in marvelous delicacies of cream and rose, weaving, moreover, a
golden woof through the brown of her hair. From her mother she took a lithe
perfection of form. At two she was well started for a raving beauty, and as much
through his love for her as for Andrea, Paul had come, like Bachelder, to swear
by the Tewana women. He might have been swearing by them yet, but his company's
business suddenly called him north, and no man could have bidden a white wife
more affectionate farewell or have been more sure of his own return. "It is a
comfort to know that your woman won't go gadding while you are away, and that is
more than a fellow can make sure of at home." These were his last words to
Bachelder. He was to be absent two months, but after he had reported adversely
on a mine in Sonora, he was ordered to expert a group in far Guerrera, where the
mountains turn on edge and earth tosses in horrible tumult. Then came a third
order to report in New York for personal conference. Thus the months did sums in
simple addition while Andrea waited, serenely confident of his return. Not that
she lacked experience of deserted wives, or based hope on her own attractions.
Her furious mother love simply could not form, much less harbor, the possibility
of Paul's deserting their pretty Lola. And, barring her loneliness, the year was
kind to her, feeding her mother love with small social triumphs. For one, Lola
was chosen to sit with three other tots, the most beautiful of Tewana's
children, at the feet of the Virgin in the Theophany of the "Black Christ" at
the eastern fiesta. From morning to mirk midnight, it was a hard vigil. By day
the vaulted church reeked incense; by night a thousand candles guttered under
the dark arches, sorely afflicting small, weary eyelids; yet Lola sat it out
like a small thoroughbred, earning thereby the priest's kindly pat and her
mother's devoted worship. Then, on her third saint day, the small girl donned
her first fiesta costume, a miniature of the heirlooms which descend from mother
to daughter, each generation striving to increase the magnificence of the
costume just as it strove to add to the gold pieces in the chain which did
triple duty as hoard, dowry and necklace. Andrea subtracted several English
sovereigns from her own to start Lola's, and, with the American gold eagle, the
gift of Bachelder, her _padrino_, godfather, they made an affluent beginning for
so small a girl. As for the costume? Its silk, plush, velours, were worked by
Andrea's clever fingers curiously and wondrously, even when judged by difficult
Tewana standards. Bachelder painted the small thing, kneeling by her mother's
side before the great gold altar. Her starched skirt, with its band of red
velours, stands of itself leveling her head, so that she looks for all the world
like a serious cherub peering out from a wonderfully embroidered bath-cabinet.
But ah! the serious devotion of the faces! The muse Bachelder had followed so
faithfully was hovering closely when his soul flamed out upon that canvas. It
ranks with his "Enganchada." Either would bring him fame, yet they rest, face to
face, in a dusty locker, awaiting the day when time or death shall cure the ache
that a glimpse of either brings him. Two months after that canvas was put away,
eighteen counting from the day of his departure, Bachelder walked, one day, down
to the primitive post-office to see if the mail that was due from the little
fishing port of Salina Cruz contained aught for him. _Waded_ would better
describe his progress, for it was the middle of the rains; water filled the air,
dropping in sheets from a livid sky; the streets were rivers running full over
the cobble curbs. Such white planters as came in occasionally from the jungle
country had been housefast upon their plantations for this month, and, having
the town pretty much to himself, the artist's thought turned naturally to Paul,
who used to bring doubtful mitigation to his isolation. He had written the
artist twice, but now six months had elapsed since the last letter. "He'll never
come back," the artist muttered. "Poor Andrea! But it is better--now." Warm with
the pity the thought inspired, he turned the corner into the street that led to
the post-office, and was almost run down by the first mule of a train that came
driving through the rain. "Bachelder!" the rider cried. It was surely Paul.
Pulling up his beast, he thrust a wet hand from under his rain poncha, then,
turning in his saddle, he spoke to the woman who rode behind him, "Ethel, this
is Mr. Bachelder." The alternative had happened! As a small hand thrust back the
hood of mackintosh, Bachelder found himself staring at a sweet face, while an
equally sweet greeting was drowned by echoing questions in his mind. "Good God!"
he first thought. "Why did he bring her here?" And upon that immediately
followed, "How ever did he get her?" An evening spent with the pair at the small
Mexican hotel increased his wonder. Pleasant, pretty, of a fine sensibility and
intellectual without loss of femininity, the girl would have been fitly mated
with a man of the finest clay. How could she have married Paul? Bachelder
thought, and correctly, that he discerned the reason in a certain warmth of
romantic feeling that tinged her speech and manner. Daughter of an Episcopal
clergyman in Paul's native town, she had sighed for something different from the
humdrum of small teas, dinners, parochial calls, and when Paul came to her with
the glamour of tropical travel upon him, she married, mistaking the glamour for
him. "She loved me for the dangers I had passed!" the artist mused, quoting
Shakespeare, on his way home. "What a tragedy when she discovers him for a
spurious Othello!" Dropping into the studio next morning, Paul answered the
other question. "Why not?" he asked, with a touch of ancestral stolidity. "My
work is here. Andrea?" His next words plainly revealed that while his moral
plating had cracked and peeled under tropical heat, the iron convention beneath
had held without fracture. He began: "It was a beastliness that we
committed----"

"That _you_ committed," Bachelder sharply corrected. "And what of the child?"
Blinking in the old fashion, Paul went on, "I was coming to that. She cannot be
allowed to grow up a little Mexican. I shall adopt her and have her properly
educated." Here he looked at Bachelder as though expecting commendation for his
honorable intention, and, receiving none, went on, dilating on his plans for the
child as if resolved to earn it. Yet, setting aside this patent motive, it was
easy to see as he warmed to his subject that Andrea had not erred in counting on
Lola to bring him back. With her beauty she would do any man proud! The whole
United States would not be able to produce her rival! She should have the best
that money could give her! Wondering at the curious mixture of class egotism,
paternal tenderness and twisted morality, Bachelder listened to the end, then
said, "Of course, Mrs. Steiner approves of a ready-made family?" Paul's proud
feathers draggled a little, and he reddened. "Well--you see--she thinks Lola is
the daughter of a dead mining friend. Some day, of course, I'll tell her. In
fact, the knowledge will grow on her. But not now. It wouldn't do. She couldn't
understand." "No?" But the quiet sarcasm was wasted on Paul, and the artist
continued, "Aren't you leaving Andrea out of your calculations?" Paul ruffled
like an angry gobbler. His eyes took on an ugly gleam, his jaw stuck out, his
expression incarnated Teutonic obstinacy. "Oh, she'll have to be fixed. Luckily
it doesn't take much to buy these savage women; their feelings are all on the
surface. I'll give her the house, furniture, and a hundred dollars cash. That
should make up for the loss of----"

"----a husband?" Bachelder's face darkened. Throughout the conversation he had
worn an air of suppression, as though holding, by an effort, something back. Now
he straightened with a movement that was analogous to the flexure of a coiled
spring. His lips opened, closed again, and he went on with his quiet
questioning. "For a husband, yes. They are easy stock to come by. But not for
the child of her labor. Supposing she refuses?" Paul's eyes glinted under his
frown. "Then the Jefe-Politico earns the hundred dollars and the law gives her
to me." The spring uncoiled. "Never! She died a month ago of yellow fever."
Under Teuton phlegm lies an hysteria that rivals that of the Latin races. Paul's
flame died to ashes and he burst out sobbing, throwing his hands up and out with
ungainly gestures. Looking down upon his awkward grief, Bachelder half regretted
the just anger that caused him to slip the news like a lightning bolt; he would
have felt sorrier but that he perceived Paul's sorrow rooted in the same
colossal egotism that would have sacrificed the mother on the altars of its vast
conceit. He knew that Paul was grieving for himself, for lost sensations of
pride, love and pleasure that he could never experience again. When the
ludicrous travesty had partly spent itself, he stemmed the tide with a question.
"If you don't care to see Andrea, I can make the settlements you hinted at."
Paul glanced up, stupidly resentful, through his tears. "The child is dead. That
is all off." "You will do nothing for her?" As much to prop an opinion of human
nature that was already too low for comfort as in Andrea's interest, Bachelder
asked the question. "She has the house furnishings," Paul sullenly answered.
"That leaves her a sight better off than she was before she knew me." Rising,
the artist walked over to the window. "The river is rising," he said, when he
could trust himself to speak. "Another foot, and away goes the bridge. When do
you go to the mine?" "Tomorrow." "Mrs. Steiner goes with you?" "No, too wet."
Bachelder hesitated. "I'd offer you my quarters, but--you see I am neither
married nor unmarried." "No!" Paul agreed with ponderous respectability. "It
would never do. Besides, I've hired a house of the Jefe-Politico; the one that
crowns the Promontory. When the rain slacks we'll move out to the mine." "There
is one thing I should like," he added as he rose to go. "If you would have a
stone put over the child's grave--something nice--you're a better judge than me,
--I'll----"

"Too late," the artist interrupted. "Andrea broke up her necklace; put savings
of eighteen generations into the finest tomb in the cemetery." He looked
curiously at Paul, but his was that small order of mind which persistently fixes
responsibility for the most inevitable calamity upon some person. To the day of
his death he would go on taxing the child's death against Andrea; he did not
even comment on this last proof of her devoted love. After he was gone,
Bachelder returned to his window, just in time to see the bridge go. A thin
stream in summer, meandering aimlessly between wide banks, the river now ran a
full half-mile wide, splitting the town with its yeasty race. An annual
occurrence, this was a matter of small moment to the severed halves. Each would
pursue the even tenor of its way till the slack of the rains permitted
communication by canoe and the rebuilding of the bridge. But it had special
significance now in that Andrea lived on the other bank. He wondered if the news
of Paul's return had crossed, muttering: "Poor girl, poor girl!" Adding, a
moment later: "But happier than the other. Poor little Desdemona!" *       *
*       *       *

How melancholy is the voice of a flood! Its resurgent dirge will move a new-born
babe to frightened wailing, and stirs in strong men a vague uneasiness that
roots in the vast and calamitous experience of the race. Call of hungry waters,
patter of driving rain, sough of the weird wind, it requires good company and a
red-coal fire to offset their moanings of eternity. Yet though the fireless
tropics could not supply one, and she lacked the other, the storm voices were
hardly responsible for Ethel Steiner's sadness the third morning after her
arrival. Neither was it due to the fact that Paul had failed to come in the
preceding night from the mine. Seeming relieved rather than distressed, she had
gone quietly to bed. No, it was neither the storm, his absence, nor any of the
small miseries that afflict young wives. Poor Desdemona! The curtain was rising
early on the tragedy which Bachelder foresaw. Already the glamour was falling
from Paul to the tropics, where it rightfully belonged; this morning she was
living her bitter hour, fighting down the premonition of a fatal mistake. What
with her thoughtful pauses, she made but a slow toilet, and when the last
rebellious curl had been coaxed to its place behind her small ear, she turned,
sighing, to the window. One glance, and she started back, pale, clutching her
hands. A rocky snout, thrusting far out into the belly of the river's great bow,
the Promontory stood high above the ordinary flood level. Once, in far-away
Aztec times, a Tewana tradition had it that a cloudburst in the rains had swept
it clear of houses, and now Time's slow cycle had brought the same deadly
coincidence. Where, last night, a hundred lights had flickered below her
windows, a boil of yellow waters spread, cutting off her house, the last and
highest, from the mainland. Black storm had drowned the cries of fleeing
householders. The flood's mighty voice, bellowing angrily for more victims as it
swallowed house after house, had projected but a faint echo into her dreams.
Now, however, she remembered that Carmencita, her new maid, had failed to bring
in the morning coffee. Wringing her hands and loudly lamenting the deadly fear
that made her forget her mistress, Carmencita, poor girl, was in the crowd that
was helping Paul and Bachelder to launch a freight canoe. When Paul--who had
ridden in early from the little village, where he had been storm-stayed--had
tried to impress a crew, the peon boatman had sworn volubly that no pole would
touch bottom and that one might as well try to paddle the town as a heavy canoe
against such a flood. But when Bachelder stepped in and manned the big sweep, a
half-dozen followed. Notwithstanding, their river wisdom proved. Paddling
desperately, they gained no nearer than fifty yards to the pale face at the
window. "Don't be afraid!" Bachelder shouted, as they swept by. "We'll get you
next time!" If the walls did not melt? Already the flood was licking with hungry
tongues the adobe bricks where the plaster had bulged and fallen, and an hour
would fly while they made a landing and dragged the canoe back for another cast.
The boatmen knew! Their faces expressed, anticipated that which happened as they
made the landing half a mile below. Paul saw it first. Through the swift passage
he sat, facing astern, helplessly clutching the gunwale, and his cry, raucous as
that of a maimed animal, signaled the fall of the house. Sobbing, he collapsed
on the bank. Bachelder looked down upon him. Momentarily stunned, his thought
returned along with a feeling of relief that would have framed itself thus in
words: "Poor Desdemona! Now she will never know!" "_Senor! Senor! Mira!_" A
boatman touched his shoulder. Two heads were swirling down the flood, a light
and a dark. Bachelder instantly knew Ethel, but, as yet, he could not make out
the strong swimmer who was at such infinite pains to hold the fair head above
water. Though, time and again, the dark head went under for smotheringly long
intervals, Ethel's never once dipped, and, up or down, the swimmer battled
fiercely, angling across the flood. She--for long hair stamped her a woman--
gained seventy yards shoreward while floating down two hundred. Three hundred
gave her another fifty. So, rising and sinking, she drifted with her burden down
upon Paul and Bachelder. At fifty yards the artist caught a glimpse of her face,
but not till she was almost under their hands did Paul recognize the swimmer.
"Andrea!" he shouted. *       *       *       *       *

Reassured by Bachelder's cheery shout, Ethel had busied herself collecting her
watch and other trinkets from the bureau till a smacking of wet feet caused her
to turn, startled. A woman stood in the door, a woman of matchless amplitudes,
such as of old tempted the gods from heaven. Stark naked, save for the black
cloud that dripped below her waist, her bronze beauty was framed by the
ponderous arch. "I don't know who you are," Ethel said, recovering, "but you are
very beautiful, and, under the circumstances, welcome. Under ordinary
conditions, your advent would have been a trifle embarrassing. I must find you a
shawl before the canoes come. Here, take this blanket." She little imagined how
embarrassing the visitation might have proved under very ordinary conditions.
Though the news of Paul's return did cross before the bridge was carried away,
Andrea did not hear it till that morning, and she would never have had it from a
Tewana neighbor. They pitied the bereavement to which widowhood in the most
cruel of forms was now added. But among them she unfortunately counted a peon
woman of the upper Mexican plateau, one of the class which took from the
Conquest only Spanish viciousness to add to Aztec cruelty. Jealous of Andrea's
luck--as they had deemed it--in marriage, Pancha had thirsted for the
opportunity which came as they drew water together that morning from the brink
of the flood. "'Tis the luck of us all!" she exclaimed, malevolently ornamenting
her evil tidings. "They take their pleasure of us, these Gringos, then when the
hide wrinkles, ho for a prettier! They say Tewana hath not such another as his
new flame, and thy house is a hovel to that he fits up for her on the
Promontory." Here the hag paused, for two good reasons. That the barbed shaft
might sink deep and rankle from Andrea's belief that her supplanter was a girl
of her tribe, but principally because, just then, she went down under the ruins
of her own _olla_. A fighter, after her kind, with many a cutting to her credit,
she cowered like a snarling she-wolf among the sharp potsherds cowed by the
enormous anger she had provoked; lay and watched while the tall beauty ripped
shawl, slip and skirt from her magnificent limbs, then turned and plunged into
the flood. Pancha rose and shook her black fist, hurling curses after. "May the
alligators caress thy limbs, the fishes pluck thine eyes, the wolves crack thy
bleached bones on the strand." That was the lightest of them, but, unheeding
Andrea swam on. As her own house stood in the extreme skirt of the town, the
Promontory lay more than a mile below, but she could see neither it nor the
night's devastation because of the river's bend. Because of the same bend, she
had the aid of the current, which set strongly over to the other shore, but
apart from this the river was one great danger. Floating logs, huge trees, acres
of tangled greenery, the sweepings of a hundred miles of jungle, covered its
surface with other and ghastlier trove. Here the saurians of Pancha's curse
worried a drowned pig, there they fought over a cow's swollen carcass; yet
because of carrion taste or food plethora, they let her by. There an enormous
saber, long and thick as a church, turned and tumbled, threshing air and water
with enormous spreading branches, creating dangerous swirls and eddies. These
she avoided, and, having swum the river at ebb and flood every day of her life
from a child, she now easily clove its roar and tumble; swam on, her heat
unabated by the water's chill, till, sweeping around the bend, she sighted the
lone house on the Promontory. That gave her pause. Had death, then, robbed her
anger? The thought broke the spring of her magnificent energy. Feeling at last
the touch of fatigue, she steered straight for the building and climbed in, to
rest, at a lower window, without a thought of its being occupied till Ethel
moved above. Who shall divine her thoughts as, standing there in the door, she
gazed upon her rival? Did she not recognize her as such, or was she moved by the
touch of sorrow, aftermath of the morning's bitterness, that still lingered on
the young wife's face? Events seemed to predicate the former, but, be that as it
may, the eyes which grief and despair had heated till they flamed like small
crucibles of molten gold, now cooled to their usual soft brown; smiling, she
refused the proffered blanket. "_Ven tu! Ven tu!_" she exclaimed, beckoning. Her
urgent accent and gesture carried her meaning, and without question Ethel
followed down to a lower window. "But the canoe?" she objected, when Andrea
motioned for her to disrobe. "It will soon be here!" "_Canoa_?" From the one
word Andrea caught her meaning. "_No hay tiempo. Mira!_"

Leaning out, Ethel looked and shrank back, her inexperience convinced by a
single glance at the wall. She assisted the strong hands to rip away her
encumbering skirts. It took only a short half-minute, and with that afforded
time for a small femininity to come into play. Placing her own shapely arm
against Ethel's, Andrea murmured soft admiration at the other's marvelous
whiteness. But it was done in a breath. Slipping an arm about Ethel's waist,
Andrea jumped with her from the window, one minute before the soaked walls
collapsed. If Ethel's head had remained above, she might have retained her
presence of mind, and so have made things easier for her saviour, but, not
supposing that the whole world contained a mature woman who could not swim,
Andrea loosed her as they took the water. A quick dive partially amended the
error, retrieving Ethel, but not her composure. Coming up, half-choked, she
grappled Andrea, and the two went down together. The Tewana could easily have
broken the white girl's grip and--have lost her. Instead, she held her breath
and presently brought her senseless burden to the surface. Of itself, the
struggle was but a small thing to her strength, but coming on top of the long
swim under the shock and play of emotion, it left her well nigh spent. Yet she
struggled shoreward, battling, waging the war of the primal creature that yields
not till Death himself reenforces bitter odds. To this exhaustion, the tales
that float in Tehuantepec lay her end, and Bachelder has never taken time to
contradict them. But as she floated almost within reach of his hand, she
steadied at Paul's shout as under an accession of sudden strength, and looked at
her erstwhile husband. Then, if never before, she knew--him, as well as his
works! From him her glance flashed to the fair face at her shoulder. What power
of divination possessed her? Or was it Bachelder's fancy? He swears to the
chosen few, the few who understand, that her face lit with the same glory of
tender pity that she held over her sick child. Then, before they could reach
her, she shot suddenly up till her bust gleamed wet to the waist, turned, and
dived, carrying down the senseless bride. Shouting, Bachelder also dived--in
vain. In vain, the dives of his men. Death, that mighty potentate, loves
sweetness full well as a shining mark. Swiftly, silently, a deep current bore
them far out on the flooded lands and there scoured a sepulcher safe from
saurian teeth, beyond the scope Pancha's curse. Later, the jungle flowed in
after the receding waters and wreathed over the twin grave morning-glories pure
as the white wife, glorious orchids rich as Andrea's bronze. HERE ENDS THE
SPINNERS' BOOK OF FICTION BEING SHORT STORIES BY CALIFORNIA WRITERS COMPILED BY
THE BOOK COMMITTEE OF THE SPINNERS' CLUB FOR THE SPINNERS' BENEFIT FUND INA D.
COOLBRITH FIRST BENEFICIARY ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS WESTERN ARTISTS THE
DECORATIONS BY SPENCER WRIGHT THE TYPOGRAPHY DESIGNED BY J. H. NASH PUBLISHED BY
PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY AND PRINTED FOR THEM AT THE TOMOYE PRESS NEW YORK
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN