CHAPTER I.

RALPH MCCREA. The sun was going down, and a little girl with big, dark eyes who
was sitting in the waiting-room of the railway station was beginning to look
very tired. Ever since the train came in at one o'clock she had been perched
there between the iron arms of the seat, and now it was after six o'clock of the
long June day, and high time that some one came for her. A bonny little mite she
was, with a wealth of brown hair tumbling down her shoulders and overhanging her
heavy eyebrows. She was prettily dressed, and her tiny feet, cased in stout
little buttoned boots, stuck straight out before her most of the time, as she
sat well back on the broad bench. She was a silent little body, and for over two
hours had hardly opened her lips to any one,--even to the doll that now lay
neglected on the seat beside her. Earlier in the afternoon she had been much
engrossed with that blue-eyed, flaxen-haired, and overdressed beauty; but,
little by little, her interest flagged, and when a six-year-old girlie loses
interest in a brand-new doll something serious must be the matter. Something
decidedly serious was the matter now. The train that came up from Denver had
brought this little maiden and her father,--a handsome, sturdy-looking ranchman
of about thirty years of age,--and they had been welcomed with jubilant
cordiality by two or three stalwart men in broad-brimmed slouch hats and
frontier garb. They had picked her up in their brawny arms and carried her to
the waiting-room, and seated her there in state and fed her with fruit and
dainties, and made much of her. Then her father had come in and placed in her
arms this wonderful new doll, and while she was still hugging it in her delight,
he laid a heavy satchel on the seat beside her and said,--

"And now, baby, papa has to go up-town a ways. He has lots of things to get to
take home with us, and some new horses to try. He may be gone a whole hour, but
will you stay right here--you and dolly--and take good care of the satchel?" She
looked up a little wistfully. She did not quite like to be left behind, but she
felt sure papa could not well take her,--he was always so loving and kind,--and
then, there was dolly; and there were other children with their mothers in the
room. So she nodded, and put up her little face for his kiss. He took her in his
arms a minute and hugged her tight. "That's my own little Jessie!" he said.
"She's as brave as her mother was, fellows, and it's saying a heap." With that
he set her down upon the bench, and they put dolly in her arms again and a
package of apples within her reach; and then the jolly party started off. They
waved their hands to her through the window and she smiled shyly at them, and
one of them called to a baggage-man and told him to have an eye on little Jessie
in there. "She is Farron's kid." For a while matters did not go so very badly.
Other children, who came to look at that marvellous doll and to make timid
advances, kept her interested. But presently the east-bound train was signalled
and they were all whisked away. Then came a space of over an hour, during which
little Jessie sat there all alone in the big, bare room, playing contentedly
with her new toy and chattering in low-toned, murmurous "baby talk" to her, and
pointing out the wonderful sunbeams that came slanting in through the dust of
the western windows. She had had plenty to eat and a big glass of milk before
papa went away, and was neither hungry nor thirsty; but all the same, it seemed
as if that hour were getting very, very long; and every time the tramp of
footsteps was heard on the platform outside she looked up eagerly. Then other
people began to come in to wait for a train, and whenever the door opened, the
big, dark eyes glanced quickly up with such a hopeful, wistful gaze, and as each
new-comer proved to be a total stranger the little maiden's disappointment was
so evident that some kind-hearted women came over to speak to her and see if all
was right. But she was as shy as she was lonely, poor little mite, and hung her
head and hugged her doll, and shrank away when they tried to take her in their
arms. All they could get her to say was that she was waiting for papa and that
her name was Jessie Farron. At last their train came and they had to go, and a
new set appeared; and there were people to meet and welcome them with joyous
greetings and much homely, homelike chatter, and everybody but one little girl
seemed to have friends. It all made Jessie feel more and more lonely, and to
wonder what could have happened to keep papa so very long. Still she was so
loyal, so sturdy a little sentinel at her post. The kind-hearted baggage-man
came in and strove to get her to go with him to his cottage "a ways up the
road," where his wife and little ones were waiting tea for him; but she shook
her head and shrank back even from him. Papa had told her to stay there and she
would not budge. Papa had placed his satchel in her charge, and so she kept
guard over it and watched every one who approached. The sun was getting low and
shining broadly in through those western windows and making a glare that hurt
her eyes, and she longed to change her seat. Between the sun glare and the
loneliness her eyes began to fill with big tears, and when once they came it was
so hard to force them back; so it happened that poor little Jessie found herself
crying despite all her determination to be "papa's own brave daughter." The
windows behind her opened out to the north, and by turning around she could see
a wide, level space between the platform and the hotel, where wagons and an
omnibus or two, and a four-mule ambulance had been coming and going. Again and
again her eyes had wandered towards this space in hopeful search for father's
coming, only to meet with disappointment. At last, just as she had turned and
was kneeling on the seat and gazing through the tears that trickled down her
pretty face, she saw a sight that made her sore little heart bound high with
hope. First there trotted into the enclosure a span of handsome bay horses with
a low phaeton in which were seated two ladies; and directly after them, at full
gallop, came two riders on spirited, mettlesome sorrels. Little Jessie knew the
horsemen at a glance. One was a tall, bronzed, dark-moustached trooper in the
fatigue uniform of a cavalry sergeant; the other was a blue-eyed, faired-haired
young fellow of sixteen years, who raised his cap and bowed to the ladies in the
carriage, as he reined his horse up close to the station platform. He was just
about to speak to them when he heard a childish voice calling, "Ralph! Ralph!"
and, turning quickly around, he caught sight of a little girl stretching out her
arms to him through the window, and crying as if her baby heart would break. In
less time than it takes me to write five words he sprang from his horse, bounded
up the platform into the waiting-room, and gathered the child to his heart,
anxiously bidding her tell him what was the trouble. For a few minutes she could
only sob in her relief and joy at seeing him, and snuggle close to his face. The
ladies wondered to see Ralph McCrea coming towards them with a strange child in
his arms, but they were all sympathy and loving-kindness in a moment, so
attractive was her sweet face. "Mrs. Henry, this is Jessie Farron. You know her
father; he owns a ranch up on the Chugwater, right near the Laramie road. The
station-master says she has been here all alone since he went off at one o'clock
with some friends to buy things for the ranch and try some horses. It must have
been his party Sergeant Wells and I saw way out by the fort." He paused a moment
to address a cheering word to the little girl in his arms, and then went on:
"Their team had run away over the prairie--a man told us--and they were leading
them in to the quartermaster's corral as we rode from the stables. I did not
recognize Farron at the distance, but Sergeant Wells will gallop out and tell
him Jessie is all right. _Would_ you mind taking care of her a few minutes? Poor
little girl!" he added, in lower and almost beseeching tones, "she hasn't any
mother." "_Would_ I mind!" exclaimed Mrs. Henry, warmly. "Give her to me, Ralph.
Come right here, little daughter, and tell me all about it," and the loving
woman stood up in the carriage and held forth her arms, to which little Jessie
was glad enough to be taken, and there she sobbed, and was soothed and petted
and kissed as she had not been since her mother died. Ralph and the station-
master brought to the carriage the wonderful doll--at sight of whose toilet Mrs.
Henry could not repress a significant glance at her lady friend, and a
suggestive exclamation of "Horrors!" --and the heavy satchel. These were placed
where Jessie could see them and feel that they were safe, and then she was able
to answer a few questions and to look up trustfully into the gentle face that
was nestled every little while to hers, and to sip the cup of milk that Ralph
fetched from the hotel. She had certainly fallen into the hands of persons who
had very loving hearts. "Poor little thing! What a shame to leave her all alone!
How long has her mother been dead, Ralph?" asked the other lady, rather
indignantly. "About two years, Mrs. Wayne. Father and his officers knew them
very well. Our troop was camped up there two whole summers near them,--last
summer and the one before,--but Farron took her to Denver to visit her mother's
people last April, and has just gone for her. Sergeant Wells said he stopped at
the ranch on the way down from Laramie, and Farron told him, then, he couldn't
live another month without his little girl, and was going to Denver for her at
once." "I remember them well, now," said Mrs. Henry, "and we saw him sometimes
when our troop was at Laramie. What was the last news from your father, Ralph,
and when do you go?" "No news since the letter that met me here. You know he has
been scouting ever since General Crook went on up to the Powder River country.
Our troop and the Grays are all that are left to guard that whole neighborhood,
and the Indians seem to know it. They are 'jumping' from the reservation all the
time." "But the Fifth Cavalry are here now, and they will soon be up there to
help you, and put a stop to all that,--won't they?" "I don't know. The Fifth say
that they expect orders to go to the Black Hills, so as to get between the
reservations and Sitting Bull's people. Only six troops--half the regiment--have
come. Papa's letter said I was to start for Laramie with them, but they have
been kept waiting four days already." "They will start now, though," said the
lady. "General Merritt has just got back from Red Cloud, where he went to look
into the situation, and he has been in the telegraph office much of the
afternoon wiring to Chicago, where General Sheridan is. Colonel Mason told us,
as we drove past camp, that they would probably march at daybreak." "That means
that Sergeant Wells and I go at the same time, then," said Ralph, with
glistening eyes. "Doesn't it seem odd, after I've been galloping all over this
country from here to the Chug for the last three years, that now father won't
let me go it alone. I never yet set eyes on a war party of Indians, or heard of
one south of the Platte." "All the same they came, Ralph, and it was simply to
protect those settlers that your father's company was there so much. This year
they are worse than ever, and there has been no cavalry to spare. If you were my
boy, I should be worried half to death at the idea of your riding alone from
here to Laramie. What does your mother think of it?" "It was mother, probably,
who made father issue the order. She writes that, eager as she is to see me, she
wouldn't think of letting me come alone with Sergeant Wells. Pshaw! He and I
would be safer than the old stage-coach any day. That is never 'jumped' south of
Laramie, though it is chased now and then above there. Of course the country's
full of Indians between the Platte and the Black Hills, but we shouldn't be
likely to come across any." There was a moment's silence. Nestled in Mrs.
Henry's arms the weary little girl was dropping off into placid slumber, and
forgetting all her troubles. Both the ladies were wives of officers of the army,
and were living at Fort Russell, three miles out from Cheyenne, while their
husbands were far to the north with their companies on the Indian campaign,
which was just then opening. It was an anxious time. Since February all of the
cavalry and much of the infantry stationed in Nebraska and Wyoming had been out
in the wild country above the North Platte River, between the Big Horn Mountains
and the Black Hills. For two years previous great numbers of the young warriors
had been slipping away from the Sioux reservations and joining the forces of
such vicious and intractable chiefs as Sitting Bull, Gall, and Rain-in-the-face,
it could scarcely be doubted, with hostile intent. Several thousands of the
Indians were known to be at large, and committing depredations and murders in
every direction among the settlers. Now, all pacific means having failed, the
matter had been turned over to General Crook, who had recently brought the
savage Apaches of Arizona under subjection, to employ such means as he found
necessary to defeat their designs. General Crook found the Sioux and their
allies armed with the best modern breech-loaders, well supplied with ammunition
and countless herds of war ponies, and far too numerous and powerful to be
handled by the small force at his command. One or two sharp and savage fights
occurred in March, while the mercury was still thirty degrees below zero, and
then the government decided on a great summer campaign. Generals Terry and
Gibbon were to hem the Indians from the north along the Yellowstone, while at
the same time General Crook was to march up and attack them from the south. When
June came, four regiments of cavalry and half a dozen infantry regiments were
represented among the forces that scouted to and fro in the wild and beautiful
uplands of Wyoming, Dakota, and Eastern Montana, searching for the Sioux. The
families of the officers and soldiers remained at the barracks from which the
men were sent, and even at the exposed stations of Forts Laramie, Robinson, and
Fetterman, many ladies and children remained under the protection of small
garrisons of infantry. Among the ladies at Laramie was Mrs. McCrea, Ralph's
mother, who waited for the return of her boy from a long absence at school. A
manly, sturdy fellow was Ralph, full of health and vigor, due in great part to
the open-air life he had led in his early boyhood. He had "backed" an Indian
pony before he was seven, and could sit one like a Comanche by the time he was
ten. He had accompanied his father on many a long march and scout, and had
ridden every mile of the way from the Gila River in Arizona, across New Mexico,
and so on up into Nebraska. He had caught brook trout in the Cache la Poudre,
and shot antelope along the Loup Fork of the Platte. With his father and his
father's men to watch and keep him from harm, he had even charged his first
buffalo herd and had been fortunate enough to shoot a bull. The skin had been
made into a robe, which he carefully kept. Now, all eager to spend his vacation
among his favorite haunts,--in the saddle and among the mountain streams,--Ralph
McCrea was going back to his army home, when, as ill-luck would have it, the
great Sioux war broke out in the early summer of our Centennial Year, and
promised to greatly interfere with, if it did not wholly spoil, many of his
cherished plans. Fort Laramie lay about one hundred miles north of Cheyenne, and
Sergeant Wells had come down with the paymaster's escort a few days before,
bringing Ralph's pet, his beautiful little Kentucky sorrel "Buford," and now the
boy and his faithful friend, the sergeant, were visiting at Fort Russell, and
waiting for a safe opportunity to start for home. Presently, as they chatted in
low tones so as not to disturb the little sleeper, there came the sound of rapid
hoof-beats, and Sergeant Wells cantered into the enclosure and, riding up to the
carriage, said to Ralph,--

"I found him, sir, all safe; but their wagon was being patched up, and he could
not leave. He is so thankful to Mrs. Henry for her kindness, and begs to know if
she would mind bringing Jessie out to the fort. The men are trying very hard to
persuade him not to start for the Chug in the morning." "Why not, sergeant?"
"Because the telegraph despatches from Laramie say there must be a thousand
Indians gone out from the reservation in the last two days. They've cut the
wires up to Red Cloud, and no more news can reach us." Ralph's face grew very
pale. "Father is right in the midst of them, with only fifty men!" CHAPTER II.
CAVALRY ON THE MARCH. It was a lovely June morning when the Fifth Cavalry
started on its march. Camp was struck at daybreak, and soon after five o'clock,
while the sun was still low in the east and the dew-drops were sparkling on the
buffalo grass, the long column was winding up the bare, rolling "divide" which
lay between the valleys of Crow and Lodge Pole Creeks. In plain view, only
thirty miles away to the west, were the summits of the Rocky Mountains, but such
is the altitude of this upland prairie, sloping away eastward between the two
forks of the Platte River, that these summits appear to be nothing more than a
low range of hills shutting off the western horizon. Looking southward from the
Laramie road, all the year round one can see the great peaks of the range--
Long's and Hahn's and Pike's--glistening in their mantles of snow, and down
there near them, in Colorado, the mountains slope abruptly into the Valley of
the South Platte. Up here in Wyoming the Rockies go rolling and billowing far
out to the east, and the entire stretch of country, from what are called the
"Black Hills of Wyoming," in contradistinction to the Black Hills of Dakota, far
east as the junction of the forks of the Platte, is one vast inclined plane. The
Union Pacific Railway winds over these Black Hills at Sherman,--the lowest point
the engineers could find,--and Sherman is over eight thousand feet above the
sea. From Sherman, eastward, in less than an hour's run the cars go sliding down
with smoking brakes to Cheyenne, a fall of two thousand feet. But the wagon-road
from Cheyenne to Fort Laramie twists and winds among the ravines and over the
divides of this lofty prairie; so that Ralph and his soldier friends, while
riding jauntily over the hard-beaten track this clear, crisp, sunshiny, breezy
morning, were twice as high above the sea as they would have been at the tiptop
of the Catskills and higher even than had they been at the very summit of Mount
Washington. The air at this height, though rare, is keen and exhilarating, and
one needs no second look at the troopers to see how bright are their eyes and
how nimble and elastic is the pace of their steeds. The commanding officer, with
his adjutant and orderlies and a little group of staff sergeants, had halted at
the crest of one of these ridges and was looking back at the advancing column.
Beside the winding road was strung a line of wires,--the military telegraph to
the border forts,--and with the exception of those bare poles not a stick of
timber was anywhere in sight. The whole surface is destitute of bush or tree,
but the thick little bunches of gray-green grass that cover it everywhere are
rich with juice and nutriment. This is the buffalo grass of the Western
prairies, and the moment the horses' heads are released down go their nozzles,
and they are cropping eagerly and gratefully. Far as the eye can see to the
north and east it roams over a rolling, tumbling surface that seems to have
become suddenly petrified. Far to the south are the snow-shimmering peaks; near
at hand, to the west, are the gloomy gorges and ravines and wide wastes of
upland of the Black Hills of Wyoming; and so clear is the air that they seem but
a short hour's gallop away. There is something strangely deceptive about the
distances in an atmosphere so rare and clear as this. A young surgeon was taking
his first ride with a cavalry column in the wide West, and, as he looked back
into the valley through which they had been marching for over half an hour, his
face was clouded with an expression of odd perplexity. "What's the matter,
doctor?" asked the adjutant, with a grin on his face. "Are you wondering whether
those fellows really are United States regulars?" and the young officer nodded
towards the long column of horsemen in broad-brimmed slouch hats and flannel
shirts or fanciful garb of Indian tanned buckskin. Even among the officers there
was hardly a sign of the uniform or trappings which distinguish the soldiers in
garrison. "No, it isn't _that_. I knew that you fellows who had served so long
in Arizona had got out of the way of wearing uniform in the field against
Indians. What I can't understand is that ridge over there. I thought we had been
down in a hollow for the last half-hour, yet look at it; we must have come over
that when I was thinking of something else." "Not a bit of it, doctor," laughed
the colonel. "That's where we dismounted and took a short rest and gave the
horses a chance to pick a bit." "Why, but, colonel! that must have been two
miles back,--full half an hour ago: you don't mean that ridge is two miles away?
I could almost hit that man riding down the road towards us." "It would be a
wonderful shot, doctor. That man is one of the teamsters who went back after a
dropped pistol. He is a mile and a half away." The doctor's eyes were wide open
with wonder. "Of course you must know, colonel, but it is incomprehensible to
me." "It is easily proved, doctor. Take these two telegraph poles nearest us and
tell me how far they are apart." The doctor looked carefully from one pole to
another. Only a single wire was strung along the line, and the poles were stout
and strong. After a moment's study he said, "Well, they are just about seventy-
five yards apart." "More than that, doctor. They are a good hundred yards. But
even at your estimate, just count the poles back to that ridge--of course they
are equidistant, or nearly so, all along--and tell me how far you make it." The
doctor's eyes began to dilate again as he silently took account of the number.
"I declare, there are over twenty to the rear of the wagon-train and nearly
forty across the ridge! I give it up." "And now look here," said the colonel,
pointing out to the eastward where some lithe-limbed hounds were coursing over
the prairie with Ralph on his fleet sorrel racing in pursuit. "Look at young
McCrea out there where there are no telegraph poles to help you judge the
distance. If he were an Indian whom you wanted to bring down what would you set
your sights at, providing you had time to set them at all?" and the veteran
Indian fighter smiled grimly. The doctor shook his head. "It is too big a puzzle
for me," he answered. "Five minutes ago I would have said three hundred at the
utmost, but I don't know now." "How about that, Nihil?" asked the colonel,
turning to a soldier riding with the head-quarters party. Nihil's brown hand
goes up to the brim of his scouting hat in salute, but he shook his head. "The
bullet would kick up a dust this side of him, sir," was the answer. "People
sometimes wonder why it is we manage to hit so few of these Cheyennes or Sioux
in our battles with them," said the colonel. "Now you can get an idea of one of
the difficulties. They rarely come within six hundred yards of us when they are
attacking a train or an infantry escort, and are always riding full tilt, just
as you saw Ralph just now. It is next to impossible to hit them." "I
understand," said the doctor. "How splendidly that boy rides!" "Ralph? Yes. He's
a genuine trooper. Now, there's a boy whose whole ambition is to go to West
Point. He's a manly, truthful, dutiful young fellow, born and raised in the
army, knows the plains by heart, and just the one to make a brilliant and
valuable cavalry officer, but there isn't a ghost of a chance for him." "Why
not?" "Why not? Why! how is he to get an appointment? If he had a home somewhere
in the East, and his father had influence with the Congressman of the district,
it might be done; but the sons of army officers have really very little chance.
The President used to have ten appointments a year, but Congress took them away
from him. They thought there were too many cadets at the Point; but while they
were virtuously willing to reduce somebody else's prerogatives in that line, it
did not occur to them that they might trim a little on their own. Now the
President is allowed only ten 'all told,' and can appoint no boy until some of
his ten are graduated or otherwise disposed of. It really gives him only two or
three appointments a year, and he has probably a thousand applicants for every
one. What chance has an army boy in Wyoming against the son of some fellow with
Senators and Representatives at his back in Washington? If the army could name
an occasional candidate, a boy like Ralph would be sure to go, and we would have
more soldiers and fewer scientists in the cavalry." By this time the head of the
compact column was well up, and the captain of the leading troop, riding with
his first lieutenant in front of his sets of fours, looked inquiringly at the
colonel, as though half expectant of a signal to halt or change the gait.
Receiving none, and seeing that the colonel had probably stopped to look over
his command, the senior troop leader pushed steadily on. Behind him, four
abreast, came the dragoons,--a stalwart, sunburned, soldierly-looking lot. Not a
particle of show or glitter in their attire or equipment. Utterly unlike the
dazzling hussars of England or the European continent, when the troopers of the
United States are out on the broad prairies of the West "for business," as they
put it, hardly a brass button, even, is to be seen. The colonel notes with
satisfaction the nimble, active pace of the horses as they go by at rapid walk,
and the easy seat of the men in their saddles. First the bays of "K" Troop trip
quickly past; then the beautiful, sleek grays of "B," Captain Montgomery's
company; then more bays in "I" and "A" and "D," and then some sixty-five blacks,
"C" Troop's color. There are two sorrel troops in the regiment and more bays,
and later in the year, when new horses were obtained, the Fifth had a roan and a
dark-brown troop; but in June, when they were marching up to take their part in
the great campaign that followed, only two of their companies were not mounted
on bright bay horses, and one and all they were in the pink of condition and
eager for a burst "'cross country." It was, however, their colonel's desire to
take them to their destination in good trim, and he permitted no "larking." They
had several hundred miles of weary marching before them. Much of the country
beyond the Platte was "Bad Lands," where the grass is scant and poor, the soil
ashen and spongy, and the water densely alkaline. All this would tell very
sensibly upon the condition of horses that all winter long had been comfortably
stabled, regularly groomed and grain-fed, and watered only in pure running
streams flushed by springs or melting snow. It was all very well for young Ralph
to be coursing about on his fleet, elastic sorrel, radiant with delight as the
boy was at being again "out on the plains" and in the saddle; but the cavalry
commander's first care must be to bring his horses to the scene of action in the
most effective state of health and soundness. The first few days' marching,
therefore, had to be watched with the utmost care. As the noon hour approached,
the doctor noted how the hills off to the west seemed to be growing higher, and
that there were broader vistas of wide ranges of barren slopes to the east and
north. The colonel was riding some distance ahead of the battalion, his little
escort close beside, and Ralph was giving Buford a resting spell, and placidly
ambling alongside the doctor. Sergeant Wells was riding somewhere in the column
with some chum of old days. He belonged to another regiment, but knew the Fifth
of old. The hounds had tired of chasing over a waterless country, and with
lolling tongues were trotting behind their masters' horses. The doctor was
vastly interested in what he had heard of Ralph, and engaged him in talk. Just
as they came in sight of the broad, open valley in which runs the sparkling
Lodge Pole, a two-horse wagon rumbled up alongside, and there on the front seat
was Farron, the ranchman, with bright-eyed, bonny-faced little Jessie smiling
beside him. "We've caught you, Ralph," he laughed, "though we left Russell an
hour or more behind you. I s'pose you'll all camp at Lodge Pole for the night.
We're going on to the Chug." "Hadn't you better see the colonel about that?"
asked Ralph, anxiously. "Oh, it's all right! I got telegrams from Laramie and
the Chug, both, just before we left Russell. Not an Indian's been heard of this
side of the Platte, and your father's troop has just got in to Laramie." "Has
he?" exclaimed Ralph, with delight. "Then he knows I've started, and perhaps
he'll come on to the Chug or Eagle's Nest and meet me." "More'n likely,"
answered Farron. "You and the sergeant had better come ahead and spend the night
with me at the ranch." "I've no doubt the colonel will let us go ahead with
you," answered Ralph, "but the ranch is too far off the road. We would have to
stay at Phillips's for the night. What say you, sergeant?" he asked, as Wells
came loping up alongside. "The very plan, I think. Somebody will surely come
ahead to meet us, and we can make Laramie two days before the Fifth." "Then,
good-by, doctor; I must ask the colonel first, but we'll see you at Laramie."
"Good-by, Ralph, and good luck to you in getting that cadetship." "Oh, well! I
_must_ trust to luck for that. Father says it all depends on my getting General
Sheridan to back me. If _he_ would only ask for me, or if I could only do
something to make him glad to ask; but what chance is there?" What chance,
indeed? Ralph McCrea little dreamed that at that very moment General Sheridan--
far away in Chicago--was reading despatches that determined him to go at once,
himself, to Red Cloud Agency; that in four days more the general would be there,
at Laramie, and that in two wonderful days, meantime--but who was there who
dreamed what would happen meantime? CHAPTER III. DANGER IN THE AIR. When the
head of the cavalry column reached the bridge over Lodge Pole Creek a march of
about twenty-five miles had been made, which is an average day's journey for
cavalry troops when nothing urgent hastens their movements. Filing to the right,
the horsemen moved down the north bank of the rapidly-running stream, and as
soon as the rearmost troop was clear of the road and beyond reach of its dust,
the trumpets sounded "halt" and "dismount," and in five minutes the horses,
unsaddled, were rolling on the springy turf, and then were driven out in herds,
each company's by itself, to graze during the afternoon along the slopes. Each
herd was watched and guarded by half a dozen armed troopers, and such horses as
were notorious "stampeders" were securely "side-lined" or hobbled. Along the
stream little white tents were pitched as the wagons rolled in and were
unloaded; and then the braying mules, rolling and kicking in their enjoyment of
freedom from harness, were driven out and disposed upon the slopes at a safe
distance from the horses. The smokes of little fires began to float into the
air, and the jingle of spoon and coffee-pot and "spider" and skillet told that
the cooks were busy getting dinner for the hungry campaigners. Such appetites as
those long-day marches give! Such delight in life and motion one feels as he
drinks in that rare, keen mountain air! Some of the soldiers--old plainsmen--are
already prone upon the turf, their heads pillowed on their saddles, their slouch
hats pulled down over their eyes, snatching half an hour's dreamless sleep
before the cooks shall summon them to dinner. One officer from each company is
still in saddle, riding around the horses of his own troop to see that the grass
is well chosen and that his guards are properly posted and on the alert. Over at
the road there stands a sort of frontier tavern and stage station, at which is a
telegraph office, and the colonel has been sending despatches to Department
Head-Quarters to announce the safe arrival of his command at Lodge Pole _en
route_ for Fort Laramie. Now he is talking with Ralph. "It isn't that, my boy. I
do not suppose there is an Indian anywhere near the Chugwater; but if your
father thought it best that you should wait and start with us, I think it was
his desire that you should keep in the protection of the column all the way.
Don't you?" "Yes, sir, I do. The only question now is, will he not come or send
forward to the Chug to meet me, and could I not be with mother two days earlier
that way? Besides, Farron is determined to go ahead as soon as he has had
dinner, and--I don't like to think of little Jessie being up there at the Chug
just now. Would you mind my telegraphing to father at Laramie and asking him?"
"No, indeed, Ralph. Do so." And so a despatch was sent to Laramie, and in the
course of an hour, just as they had enjoyed a comfortable dinner, there came the
reply,--

"All right. Come ahead to Phillips's Ranch. Party will meet you there at eight
in the morning. They stop at Eagle's Nest to-night." Ralph's eyes danced as he
showed this to the colonel who read it gravely and replied,--

"It is all safe, I fancy, or your father would not say so. They have patrols all
along the bank of the Platte to the southeast, and no Indians can cross without
its being discovered in a few hours. I suppose they never come across between
Laramie and Fetterman, do they, Ralph?" "Certainly not of late years, colonel.
It is so far off their line to the reservations where they have to run for
safety after their depredations." "I know that; but now that all but two troops
of cavalry have gone up with General Crook they might be emboldened to try a
wider sweep. That's all I'm afraid of." "Even if the Indians came, colonel,
they've got those ranch buildings so loop-holed and fortified at Phillips's that
we could stand them off a week if need be, and you would reach there by noon at
latest." "Yes. We make an early start to-morrow morning, and 'twill be just
another twenty-five miles to our camp on the Chug. If all is well you will be
nearly to Eagle's Nest by the time we get to Phillips's, and you will be at
Laramie before the sunset-gun to-morrow. Well, give my regards to your father,
Ralph, and keep your eye open for the main chance. We cavalry people want you
for our representative at West Point, you know." "Thank you for that, colonel,"
answered Ralph, with sparkling eyes. "I sha'n't forget it in many a day." So it
happened that late that afternoon, with Farron driving his load of household
goods; with brown-haired little Jessie lying sound asleep with her head on his
lap; with Sergeant Wells cantering easily alongside and Ralph and Buford
scouting a little distance ahead, the two-horse wagon rolled over the crest of
the last divide and came just at sunset in sight of the beautiful valley with
the odd name of Chugwater. Farther up the stream towards its sources among the
pine-crested Black Hills, there were many places where the busy beavers had
dammed its flow. The Indians, bent on trapping these wary creatures, had
listened in the stillness of the solitudes to the battering of those wonderful
tails upon the mud walls of their dams and forts, and had named the little river
after its most marked characteristic, the constant "_chug, chug_" of those
cricket-bat caudals. On the west of the winding stream, in the smiling valley
with tiny patches of verdure, lay the ranch with its out-buildings, corrals, and
the peacefully browsing stock around it, and little Jessie woke at her father's
joyous shout and pointed out her home to Ralph. There where the trail wound away
from the main road the wagon and horsemen must separate, and Ralph reined close
alongside and took Jessie in his arms and was hugged tight as he kissed her
bonny face. Then he and the sergeant shook hands heartily with Farron, set spurs
to their horses, and went loping down northeastward to the broader reaches of
the valley. On their right, across the lowlands, ran the long ridge ending in an
abrupt precipice, that was the scene of the great buffalo-killing by the Indians
many a long year ago. Straight ahead were the stage station, the forage sheds,
and the half dozen buildings of Phillips's. All was as placid and peaceful in
the soft evening light as if no hostile Indian had ever existed. Yet there were
to be seen signs of preparation for Indian attack. The herder whom the
travellers met two miles south of the station was heavily armed and his mate was
only short rifle-shot away. The men waved their hats to Ralph and his soldier
comrade, and one of them called out, "Whar'd ye leave the cavalry?" and seemed
disappointed to hear they were as far back as Lodge Pole. At the station, they
found the ranchmen prepared for their coming and glad to see them. Captain
McCrea had telegraphed twice during the afternoon and seemed anxious to know of
their arrival. "He's in the office at Laramie now," said the telegraph agent,
with a smile, "and I wired him the moment we sighted you coming down the hill.
Come in and send him a few words. It will please him more than anything I can
say." So Ralph stepped into the little room with its solitary instrument and
lonely operator. In those days there was little use for the line except for the
conducting of purely military business, and the agents or operators were all
soldiers detailed for the purpose. Here at "The Chug" the instrument rested on a
little table by the loop-hole of a window in the side of the log hut. Opposite
it was the soldier's narrow camp-bed with its brown army blankets and with his
heavy overcoat thrown over the foot. Close at hand stood his Springfield rifle,
with the belt of cartridges, and over the table hung two Colt's revolvers. All
through the rooms of the station the same war-like preparations were visible,
for several times during the spring and early summer war parties of Indians had
come prowling up the valley, driving the herders before them; but, having
secured all the beef cattle they could handle, they had hurried back to the
fords of the Platte and, except on one or two occasions, had committed no
murders. Well knowing the pluck of the little community at Phillips's, the
Indians had not come within long rifle range of the ranch, but on the last two
visits the warriors seemed to have grown bolder. While most of the Indians were
rounding up cattle and scurrying about in the valley, two miles below the ranch,
it was noted that two warriors, on their nimble ponies, had climbed the high
ridge on the east that overlooked the ranches in the valley beyond and above
Phillips's, and were evidently taking deliberate note of the entire situation.
One of the Indians was seen to point a long, bare arm, on which silver wristlets
and bands flashed in the sun, at Farron's lonely ranch four miles up-stream.
That was more than the soldier telegrapher could bear patiently. He took his
Springfield rifle out into the fields, and opened a long range fire on these
adventurous redskins. The Indians were a good mile away, but that honest "Long
Tom" sent its leaden missiles whistling about their ears, and kicking up the
dust around their ponies' heels, until, after a few defiant shouts and such
insulting and contemptuous gestures as they could think of, the two had ducked
suddenly out of sight behind the bluffs. All this the ranch people told Ralph
and the sergeant, as they were enjoying a hot supper after the fifty-mile ride
of the day. Afterwards the two travellers went out into the corral to see that
their horses were secure for the night. Buford looked up with eager whinny at
Ralph's footstep, pricked his pretty ears, and looked as full of life and spirit
as if he had never had a hard day's gallop in his life. Sergeant Wells had given
him a careful rubbing down while Ralph was at the telegraph office, and later,
when the horses were thoroughly cool, they were watered at the running stream
and given a hearty feed of oats. Phillips came out to lock up his stable while
they were petting Buford, and stood there a moment admiring the pretty fellow.
"With your weight I think he could make a race against any horse in the cavalry,
couldn't he, Mr. Ralph?" he asked. "I'm not quite sure, Phillips; the colonel of
the Fifth Cavalry has a horse that I might not care to race. He was being led
along behind the head-quarters escort to-day. Barring that horse Van, I would
ride Buford against any horse I've ever seen in the service for any distance
from a quarter of a mile to a day's march." "But those Indian ponies, Mr. Ralph,
couldn't they beat him?" "Over rough ground--up hill and down dale--I suppose
some of them could. I saw their races up at Red Cloud last year, and old Spotted
Tail brought over a couple of ponies from Camp Sheridan that ran like a streak,
and there was a Minneconjou chief there who had a very fast pony. Some of the
young Ogallallas had quick, active beasts, but, take them on a straight-away
run, I wouldn't be afraid to try my luck with Buford against the best of them."
"Well, I hope you'll never have to ride for your life on him. He's pretty and
sound and fast, but those Indians have such wind and bottom; they never seem to
give out." A little later--at about half after eight o'clock--Sergeant Wells,
the telegraph operator, and one or two of the ranchmen sat tilted back in their
rough chairs on the front porch of the station enjoying their pipes. Ralph had
begun to feel a little sleepy, and was ready to turn in when he was attracted by
the conversation between the two soldiers; the operator was speaking, and the
seriousness of his tone caused the boy to listen. "It isn't that we have any
particular cause to worry just here. With our six or seven men we could easily
stand off the Indians until help came, but it's Farron and little Jessie I'm
thinking of. He and his two men would have no show whatever in case of a sudden
and determined attack. They have not been harmed so far, because the Indians
always crossed below Laramie and came up to the Chug, and so there was timely
warning. Now, they have seen Farron's place up there all by itself. They can
easily find out, by hanging around the traders at Red Cloud, who lives there,
how many men he has, and about Jessie. Next to surprising and killing a white
man in cold blood, those fellows like nothing better than carrying off a white
child and concealing it among them. The gypsies have the same trait. Now, they
know that so long as they cross below Laramie the scouts are almost sure to
discover it in an hour or two, and as soon as they strike the Chug Valley some
herders come tumbling in here and give the alarm. They have come over regularly
every moon, since General Crook went up in February, _until now_." The operator
went on impressively:

"The moon's almost on the wane, and they haven't shown up yet. Now, what worries
me is just this. Suppose they _should_ push out westward from the reservation,
cross the Platte somewhere about Bull Bend or even nearer Laramie, and come down
the Chug from the north. Who is to give Farron warning?" "They're bound to hear
it at Laramie and telegraph you at once," suggested one of the ranchmen. "Not
necessarily. The river isn't picketed between Fetterman and Laramie, simply
because the Indians have always tried the lower crossings. The stages go through
three times a week, and there are frequent couriers and trains, but they don't
keep a lookout for pony tracks. The chances are that their crossing would not be
discovered for twenty-four hours or so, and as to the news being wired to us
here, those reds would never give us a chance. The first news we got of their
deviltry would be that they had cut the line ten or twelve miles this side of
Laramie as they came sweeping down. "I tell you, boys," continued the operator,
half rising from his chair in his earnestness, "I hate to think of little Jessie
up there to-night. I go in every few minutes and call up Laramie or Fetterman
just to feel that all is safe, and stir up Lodge Pole, behind us, to realize
that we've got the Fifth Cavalry only twenty-five miles away; but the Indians
haven't missed a moon yet, and there's only one more night of this." Even as his
hearers sat in silence, thinking over the soldier's words, there came from the
little cabin the sharp and sudden clicking of the telegraph. "It's my call,"
exclaimed the operator, as he sprang to his feet and ran to his desk. Ralph and
Sergeant Wells were close at his heels; he had clicked his answering signal,
seized a pencil, and was rapidly taking down a message. They saw his eyes dilate
and his lips quiver with suppressed excitement. Once, indeed, he made an
impulsive reach with his hand, as if to touch the key and shut off the message
and interpose some idea of his own, but discipline prevailed. "It's for you," he
said, briefly, nodding up to Ralph, while he went on to copy the message. It was
a time of anxious suspense in the little office. The sergeant paced silently to
and fro with unusual erectness of bearing and a firmly-compressed lip. His
appearance and attitude were that of the soldier who has divined approaching
danger and who awaits the order for action. Ralph, who could hardly control his
impatience, stood watching the rapid fingers of the operator as they traced out
a message which was evidently of deep moment. At last the transcript was
finished, and the operator handed it to the boy. Ralph's hand was trembling with
excitement as he took the paper and carried it close to the light. It read as
follows:

"RALPH MCCREA, Chugwater Station:

"Black Hills stage reports having crossed trail of large war party      going
west, this side of Rawhide Butte. My troop ordered at once in      pursuit. Wait
for Fifth Cavalry. "GORDON MCCREA." "Going west, this side of Rawhide Butte,"
said Ralph, as calmly as he could. "That means that they are twenty miles north
of Laramie, and on the other side of the Platte." "It means that they knew what
they were doing when they crossed just behind the last stage so as to give no
warning, and that their trail was nearly two days old when seen by the down
stage this afternoon. It means that they crossed the stage road, Ralph, but how
long ago was that, do you think, and where are they now? It is my belief that
they crossed the Platte above Laramie last night or early this morning, and will
be down on us to-night." "Wire that to Laramie, then, at once," said Ralph. "It
may not be too late to turn the troop this way." "I can only say what I think to
my fellow-operator there, and can't even do that now; the commanding officer is
sending despatches to Omaha, and asking that the Fifth Cavalry be ordered to
send forward a troop or two to guard the Chug. But there's no one at the head-
quarters this time o' night. Besides, if we volunteer any suggestions, they will
say we were stampeded down here by a band of Indians that didn't come within
seventy-five miles of us." "Well, father won't misunderstand me," said Ralph,
"and I'm not afraid to ask him to think of what you say; wire it to him in my
name." There was a long interval, twenty minutes or so, before the operator
could "get the line." When at last he succeeded in sending his despatch, he
stopped short in the midst of it. "It's no use, Ralph. Your father's troop was
three miles away before his message was sent. There were reports from Red Cloud
that made the commanding officer believe there were some Cheyennes going up to
attack couriers or trains between Fetterman and the Big Horn. He is away north
of the Platte." Another few minutes of thoughtful silence, then Ralph turned to
his soldier friend,--

"Sergeant, I have to obey father's orders and stay here, but it's my belief that
Farron should be put on his guard at once. What say you?" "If you agree, sir,
I'll ride up and spend the night with him." "Then go by all means. I know father
would approve it." CHAPTER IV. CUT OFF. It was after ten o'clock when the waning
moon came peering over the barrier ridge at the east. Over an hour had passed
since Sergeant Wells, on his big sorrel, had ridden away up the stream on the
trail to Farron's. Phillips had pressed upon him a Henry repeating rifle, which
he had gratefully accepted. It could not shoot so hard or carry so far as the
sergeant's Springfield carbine, the cavalry arm; but to repel a sudden onset of
yelling savages at close quarters it was just the thing, as it could discharge
sixteen shots without reloading. His carbine and the belt of copper cartridges
the sergeant left with Ralph. Just before riding away he took the operator and
Ralph to the back of the corral, whence, far up the valley, they could see the
twinkling light at Farron's ranch. "We ought to have some way of signalling," he
had said as they went out of doors. "If you get news during the night that the
Indians are surely this side of the Platte, of course we want to know at once;
if, on the other hand, you hear they are nowhere within striking distance, it
will be a weight off my mind and we can all get a good night's rest up there.
Now, how shall we fix it?" After some discussion, it was arranged that Wells
should remain on the low porch in front of Farron's ranch until midnight. The
light was to be extinguished there as soon as he arrived, as an assurance that
all was well, and it should not again appear during the night unless as a
momentary answer to signals they might make. If information were received at
Phillips's that the Indians were south of the Platte, Ralph should fire three
shots from his carbine at intervals of five seconds; and if they heard that all
was safe, he should fire one shot to call attention and then start a small blaze
out on the bank of the stream, where it could be plainly seen from Farron's.
Wells was to show his light half a minute when he recognized the signal. Having
arrived at this understanding, the sergeant shook the hand of Ralph and the
operator and rode towards Farron's. "What I wish," said the operator, "is that
Wells could induce Farron to let him bring Jessie here for the night; but Farron
is a bull-headed fellow and thinks no number of Indians could ever get the
better of him and his two men. He knows very little of them and is hardly alive
to the danger of his position. I think he will be safe with Wells, but, all the
same, I wish that a troop of the Fifth Cavalry had been sent forward to-night."
After they had gone back to the office the operator "called up" Laramie. "All
quiet," was the reply, and nobody there seemed to think the Indians had come
towards the Platte. Then the operator signalled to his associate at Lodge Pole,
who wired back that nobody there had heard anything from Laramie or elsewhere
about the Indians; that the colonel and one or two of his officers had been in
the station a while during the evening and had sent messages to Cheyenne and
Omaha and received one or two, but that they had all gone out to camp.
Everything was quiet; "taps" had just sounded and they were all going to bed.
"Lodge Pole" announced for himself that some old friends of his were on the
guard that night, and he was going over to smoke a pipe and have a chat with
them. To this "Chug" responded that he wished he wouldn't leave the office.
There was no telling what might turn up or how soon he'd be wanted. But "Lodge
Pole" said the operators were not required to stay at the board after nine at
night; he would have the keeper of the station listen for his call, and would
run over to camp for an hour; would be back at half-past ten and sleep by his
instrument. Meantime, if needed, he could be called in a minute,--the guard
tents were only three hundred yards away,--and so he went. Ralph almost wished
that he had sent a message to the colonel to tell him of their suspicions and
anxiety. He knew well that every officer and every private in that sleeping
battalion would turn out eagerly and welcome the twenty-five-mile trot forward
to the Chug on the report that the Sioux were out "on the war-path" and might be
coming that way. Yet, army boy that he was, he hated to give what might be
called a false alarm. He knew the Fifth only by reputation, and while he would
not have hesitated to send such a message to his father had he been camped at
Lodge Pole, or to his father's comrades in their own regiment, he did not relish
the idea of sending a despatch that would rout the colonel out of his warm
blankets, and which might be totally unnecessary. So the telegraph operator at
Lodge Pole was permitted to go about his own devices, and once again Ralph and
his new friend went out into the night to look over their surroundings and the
situation. The light still burned at Farron's, and Phillips, coming out with a
bundle of kindling-wood for the little beacon fire, chuckled when he saw it,--

"Wells must be there by this time, but I'll just bet Farron is giving the boys a
little supper, or something, to welcome Jessie home, and now he's got obstinate
and won't let them douse the glim." "It's a case that Wells will be apt to
decide for himself," answered Ralph. "He won't stand fooling, and will declare
martial law.--There! What did I tell you?" The light went suddenly out in the
midst of his words. They carried the kindling and made a little heap of dry
sticks out near the bank of the stream; then stood a while and listened. In the
valley, faintly lighted by the moon, all was silence and peace; not even the
distant yelp of coyote disturbed the stillness of the night. Not a breath of air
was stirring. A light film of cloud hung about the horizon and settled in a
cumulus about the turrets of old Laramie Peak, but overhead the brilliant stars
sparkled and the planets shone like little globes of molten gold. Hearing
voices, Buford, lonely now without his friend, the sergeant's horse, set up a
low whinny, and Ralph went in and spoke to him, patting his glossy neck and
shoulder. When he came out he found that a third man had joined the party and
was talking eagerly with Phillips. Ralph recognized the man as an old trapper
who spent most of his time in the hills or farther up in the neighborhood of
Laramie Peak. He had often been at the fort to sell peltries or buy provisions,
and was a mountaineer and plainsman who knew every nook and cranny in Wyoming.
Cropping the scant herbage on the flat behind the trapper was a lank, long-
limbed horse from which he had just dismounted, and which looked travel-stained
and weary like his master. The news the man brought was worthy of consideration,
and Ralph listened with rapt attention and with a heart that beat hard and
quick, though he said no word and gave no sign. "Then you haven't seen or heard
a thing?" asked the new-comer. "It's mighty strange. I've scoured these hills--
man and boy--nigh onto thirty years and ought to know Indian smokes when I see
'em. I don't think I can be mistaken about this. I was way up the range about
four o'clock this afternoon and could see clear across towards Rawhide Butte,
and three smokes went up over there, sure. What startled me," the trapper
continued, "was the answer. Not ten miles above where I was there went up a
signal smoke from the foot-hills of the range,--just in here to the northwest of
us, perhaps twenty miles west of Eagle's Nest. It's the first time I've seen
Indian smokes in there since the month they killed Lieutenant Robinson up by the
peak. You bet I came down. _Sure_ they haven't seen anything at Laramie?"
"Nothing. They sent Captain McCrea with his troop up towards Rawhide just after
dark, but they declare nothing has been seen or heard of Indians this side of
the Platte. I've been talking with Laramie most of the evening. The Black Hills
stage coming down reported trail of a big war party out, going west just this
side of the Butte, and some of them may have sent up the smokes you saw in that
direction. I was saying to Ralph, here, that if that trail was forty-eight hours
old, they would have had time to cross the Platte at Bull Bend, and be down here
to-night." "They wouldn't come here first. They know this ranch too well. They'd
go in to Eagle's Nest to try and get the stage horses and a scalp or two there.
You're too strong for 'em here." "Ay; but there's Farron and his little kid up
there four miles above us." "You don't tell me! Thought he'd taken her down to
Denver." "So he did, and fetched her back to-day. Sergeant Wells has gone up
there to keep watch with them, and we are to signal if we get important news.
All you tell me only adds to what we suspected. How I wish we had known it an
hour ago! Now, will you stay here with us or go up to Farron's and tell Wells
what you've seen?" "I'll stay here. My horse can't make another mile, and you
may believe I don't want any prowling round outside of a stockade this night.
No, if you can signal to him go ahead and do it." "What say you, Ralph?" Ralph
thought a moment in silence. If he fired his three shots, it meant that the
danger was imminent, and that they had certain information that the Indians were
near at hand. He remembered to have heard his father and other officers tell of
sensational stories this same old trapper had inflicted on the garrison.
Sergeant Wells himself used to laugh at "Baker's yarns." More than once the
cavalry had been sent out to where Baker asserted he had certainly seen a
hundred Indians the day before, only to find that not even the vestige of a pony
track remained on the yielding sod. If he fired the signal shots it meant a
night of vigil for everybody at Farron's and then how Wells would laugh at him
in the morning, and how disgusted he would be when he found that it was entirely
on Baker's assurances that he had acted! It was a responsible position for the
boy. He would much have preferred to mount Buford and ride off over the four
miles of moonlit prairie to tell the sergeant of Baker's report and let him be
the judge of its authenticity. It was lucky he had that level-headed soldier
operator to advise him. Already he had begun to fancy him greatly, and to
respect his judgment and intelligence. "Suppose we go in and stir up Laramie,
and tell them what Mr. Baker says," he suggested; and, leaving the trapper to
stable his jaded horse under Phillips's guidance, Ralph and his friend once more
returned to the station. "If the Indians are south of the Platte," said the
operator, "I shall no longer hesitate about sending a despatch direct to the
troops at Lodge Pole. The colonel ought to know. He can send one or two
companies right along to-night. There is no operator at Eagle's Nest, or I'd
have him up and ask if all was well there. That's what worries me, Ralph. It was
back of Eagle's Nest old Baker says he saw their smokes, and it is somewhere
about Eagle's Nest that I should expect the rascals to slip in and cut our wire.
I'll bet they're all asleep at Laramie by this time. What o'clock is it?" The
boy stopped at the window of the little telegraph room where the light from the
kerosene lamp would fall upon his watch-dial. The soldier passed on around to
the door. Glancing at his watch, Ralph followed on his track and got to the
door-way just as his friend stretched forth his hand to touch the key. "It's
just ten-fifty now." "Ten-fifty, did you say?" asked the soldier, glancing over
his shoulder. "Ralph!" he cried, excitedly, "_the wire's cut!_"

"Where?" gasped Ralph. "Can you tell?" "No, somewhere up above us,--near the
Nest, probably,--though who can tell? It may be just round the bend of the road,
for all we know. No doubt about there being Indians now, Ralph, give 'em your
signal. Hullo! Hoofs!" Leaping out from the little tenement, the two listened
intently. An instant before the thunder of horse's feet upon wooden planking had
been plainly audible in the distance, and now the coming clatter could be heard
on the roadway. Phillips and Baker, who had heard the sounds, joined them at the
instant. Nearer and nearer came a panting horse; a shadowy rider loomed into
sight up the road, and in another moment a young ranchman galloped up to the
very doors. "All safe, fellows? Thank goodness for that! I've had a ride for it,
and we're dead beat. _Indians?_ Why, the whole country's alive with 'em between
here and Hunton's. I promised I'd go over to Farron's if they ever came around
that way, but they may beat me there yet. How many men have you here?" "Seven
now, counting Baker and Ralph; but I'll wire right back to Lodge Pole and let
the Fifth Cavalry know. Quick, Ralph, give 'em your signal now!" Ralph seized
his carbine and ran out on the prairie behind the corral, the others eagerly
following him to note the effect. Bang! went the gun with a resounding roar that
echoed from the cliffs at the east and came thundering back to them just in time
to "fall in" behind two other ringing reports at short, five-second intervals.
Three times the flash lighted up the faces of the little party; set and stern
and full of pluck they were. Then all eyes were turned to the dark, shadowy,
low-lying objects far up the stream, the roofs of Farron's threatened ranch.
Full half a minute they watched, hearts beating high, breath coming thick and
fast, hands clinching in the intensity of their anxiety. Then, hurrah! Faint and
flickering at first, then shining a few seconds in clear, steady beam, the
sergeant's answering signal streamed out upon the night, a calm, steadfast,
unwavering response, resolute as the spirit of its soldier sender, and then
suddenly disappeared. "He's all right!" said Ralph, joyously, as the young
ranchman put spurs to his panting horse and rode off to the west. "Now, what
about Lodge Pole?" Just as they turned away there came a sound far out on the
prairie that made them pause and look wonderingly a moment in one another's
eyes. The horseman had disappeared from view. They had watched him until he had
passed out of sight in the dim distance. The hoof-beats of his horse had died
away before they turned to go. Yet now there came the distant thunder of an
hundred hoofs bounding over the sod. Out from behind a jutting spur of a bluff a
horde of shadows sweep forth upon the open prairie towards the trail on which
the solitary rider has disappeared. Here and there among them swift gleams, like
silver streaks, are plainly seen, as the moonbeams glint on armlet or bracelet,
or the nickel plating on their gaudy trappings. Then see! a ruddy flash!
another! another! the muffled bang of fire-arms, and the vengeful yell and
whoops of savage foeman float down to the breathless listeners at the station on
the Chug. The Sioux are here in full force, and a score of them have swept down
on that brave, hapless, helpless fellow riding through the darkness alone.
Phillips groaned. "Oh, why did we let him go? Quick, now! Every man to the
ranch, and you get word to Lodge Pole, will you?" "Ay, ay, and fetch the whole
Fifth Cavalry here at a gallop!" But when Ralph ran into the telegraph station a
moment later, he found the operator with his head bowed upon his arms and his
face hidden from view. "What's the matter,--quick?" demanded Ralph. It was a
ghastly face that was raised to the boy, as the operator answered,--

"It--it's all my fault. I've waited too long. _They've cut the line behind us!_"

CHAPTER V.

AT FARRON'S RANCH. When Sergeant Wells reached Farron's ranch that evening
little Jessie was peacefully sleeping in the room that had been her mother's.
The child was tired after the long, fifty-mile drive from Russell, and had been
easily persuaded to go to bed. Farron himself, with the two men who worked for
him, was having a sociable smoke and chat, and the three were not a little
surprised at Wells's coming and the unwelcome news he bore. The ranchman was one
of the best-hearted fellows in the world, but he had a few infirmities of
disposition and one or two little conceits that sometimes marred his better
judgment. Having lived in the Chug Valley a year or two before the regiment came
there, he had conceived it to be his prerogative to adopt a somewhat patronizing
tone to its men, and believed that he knew much more about the manners and
customs of the Sioux than they could possibly have learned. The Fifth Cavalry
had been stationed not far from the Chug Valley when he first came to the
country, and afterwards were sent out to Arizona for a five-years' exile. It was
all right for the Fifth to claim acquaintance with the ways of the Sioux, Farron
admitted, but as for these fellows of the --th,--that was another thing. It did
not seem to occur to him that the guarding of the neighboring reservations for
about five years had given the new regiment opportunities to study and observe
these Indians that had not been accorded to him. Another element which he
totally overlooked in comparing the relative advantages of the two regiments was
a very important one that radically altered the whole situation. When the Fifth
was on duty watching the Sioux, it was just after breech-loading rifles had been
introduced into the army, and before they had been introduced among the Sioux.
Through the mistaken policy of the Indian Bureau at Washington this state of
affairs was now changed and, for close fighting, the savages were better armed
than the troops. Nearly every warrior had either a magazine rifle or a breech-
loader, and many of them had two revolvers besides. Thus armed, the Sioux were
about ten times as formidable as they had been before, and the task of
restraining them was far more dangerous and difficult than it had been when the
Fifth guarded them. The situation demanded greater vigilance and closer study
than in the old days, and Farron ought to have had sense enough to see it. But
he did not. He had lived near the Sioux so many years; these soldiers had been
near them so many years less; therefore they must necessarily know less about
them than he did. He did not take into account that it was the soldiers'
business to keep eyes and ears open to everything relating to the Indians, while
the information which he had gained came to him simply as diversion, or to
satisfy his curiosity. So it happened that when Wells came in that night and
told Farron what was feared at Phillips's, the ranchman treated his warning with
good-humored but rather contemptuous disregard. "Phillips gets stampeded too
easy," was the way he expressed himself, "and when you fellows of the Mustangs
have been here as long as I have you'll get to know these Indians better. Even
if they did come, Pete and Jake here, and I, with our Henry rifles, could stand
off fifty of 'em. Why, we've done it many a time." "How long ago?" asked the
sergeant, quietly. "Oh, I don't know. It was before you fellows came. Why, you
don't begin to know anything about these Indians! You never see 'em here
nowadays, but when I first came here to the Chug there wasn't a week they didn't
raid us. They haven't shown up in three years, except just this spring they've
run off a little stock. But you never see 'em." "_You_ may never see them,
Farron, but we do,--see them day in and day out as we scout around the
reservation; and while I may not know what they were ten years ago, I know what
they are _now_, and that's more to the purpose. You and Pete might have stood
off a dozen or so when they hadn't 'Henrys' and 'Winchesters' as they have now,
but you couldn't do it to-day, and it's all nonsense for you to talk of it. Of
course, so long as you keep inside here you may pick them off, but look out of
this window! What's to prevent their getting into your corral out there, and
then holding you here! They can set fire to your roof over your head, man, and
you can't get out to extinguish it." "What makes you think they've spotted me,
anyhow?" asked Farron. "They looked you over the last time they came up the
valley, and you know it. Now, if you and the men want to stay here and make a
fight for it, all right,--I'd rather do that myself, only we ought to have two
or three men to put in the corral,--but here's little Jessie. Let me take her
down to Phillips's; she's safe there. He has everything ready for a siege and
you haven't." "Why, she's only just gone to sleep, Wells; I don't want to wake
her up out of a warm bed and send her off four miles a chilly night like this,--
all for a scare, too. The boys down there would laugh at me,--just after
bringing her here from Denver, too." "They're not laughing down there _this_
night, Farron, and they're not the kind that get stampeded either. Keep Jessie,
if you say so, and I'll stay through the night; but I've fixed some signals with
them down at the road and you've got to abide by them. They can see your light
plain as a beacon, and it's got to go out in fifteen minutes." Farron had begun
by pooh-poohing the sergeant's views, but he already felt that they deserved
serious consideration. He was more than half disposed to adopt Wells's plan and
let him take Jessie down to the safer station at Phillips's, but she looked so
peaceful and bonny, sleeping there in her little bed, that he could not bear to
disturb her. He was ashamed, too, of the appearance of yielding. So he told the
sergeant that while he would not run counter to any arrangement he had made as
to signals, and was willing to back him up in any project for the common
defence, he thought they could protect Jessie and the ranch against any
marauders that might come along. He didn't think it was necessary that they
should all sit up. One man could watch while the others slept. As a first
measure Farron and the sergeant took a turn around the ranch. The house itself
was about thirty yards from the nearest side of the corral, or enclosure, in
which Farron's horses were confined. In the corral were a little stable, a
wagon-shed, and a poultry-house. The back windows of the stable were on the side
towards the house, and should Indians get possession of the stable they could
send fire-arrows, if they chose, to the roof of the house, and with their rifles
shoot down any persons who might attempt to escape from the burning building.
This fault of construction had long since been pointed out to Farron, but the
man who called his attention to it, unluckily, was an officer of the new
regiment, and the ranchman had merely replied, with a self-satisfied smile, that
he guessed he'd lived long enough in that country to know a thing or two about
the Indians. Sergeant Wells shook his head as he looked at the stable, but
Farron said that it was one of his safe-guards. "I've got two mules in there
that can smell an Indian five miles off, and they'd begin to bray the minute
they did. That would wake me up, you see, because their heads are right towards
me. Now, if they were way across the corral I mightn't hear 'em at all. Then
it's close to the house, and convenient for feeding in winter. Will you put your
horse in to-night?" Sergeant Wells declined. He might need him, he said, and
would keep him in front of the house where he was going to take his station to
watch the valley and look out for signals. He led the horse to the stream and
gave him a drink, and asked Farron to lay out a hatful of oats. "They might come
in handy if I have to make an early start." However lightly Farron might
estimate the danger, his men regarded it as a serious matter. Having heard the
particulars from Sergeant Wells, their first care was to look over their rifles
and see that they were in perfect order and in readiness for use. When at last
Farron had completed a leisurely inspection of his corral and returned to the
house, he found Wells and Pete in quiet talk at the front, and the sergeant's
horse saddled close at hand. "Oh, well!" he said, "if you're as much in earnest
as all that, I'll bring my pipe out here with you, and if any signal should
come, it'll be time enough then to wake Jessie, wrap her in a blanket, and you
gallop off to Phillips's with her." And so the watchers went on duty. The light
in the ranch was extinguished, and all about the place was as quiet as the
broad, rolling prairie itself. Farron remained wakeful a little while, then said
he was sleepy and should go in and lie down without undressing. Pete, too,
speedily grew drowsy and sat down on the porch, where Wells soon caught sight of
his nodding head just as the moon came peeping up over the distant crest of the
"Buffalo Hill." How long Farron slept he had no time to ask, for the next thing
he knew was that a rude hand was shaking his shoulder, and Pete's voice said,--

"Up with you, Farron! The signal's fired at Phillips's. Up quick!" As Farron
sprang to the floor, Pete struck a light, and the next minute the kerosene lamp,
flickering and sputtering at first, was shining in the eastward window. Outside
the door the ranchman found Wells tightening his saddle-girths, while his horse,
snorting with excitement, pricked up his ears and gazed down the valley. "Who
fired?" asked Farron, barely awake. "I don't know; Ralph probably. Better get
Jessie for me at once. The Indians are this side of the Platte sure, and they
may be near at hand. I don't like the way Spot's behaving,--see how excited he
is. I don't like to leave you short-handed if there's to be trouble. If there's
time I'll come back from Phillips's. Come, man! Wake Jessie." "All right.
There's plenty of time, though. They must be miles down the valley yet. If
they'd come from the north, the telegraph would have given warning long ago. And
Dick Warner--my brother-in-law, Jessie's uncle--always promised he'd be down to
tell me first thing, if they came any way that he could hear of it. You bet
he'll be with us before morning, unless they're between him and us now." With
that he turned into the house, and in a moment reappeared with the wondering,
sleepy-eyed, half-wakened little maid in his strong arms. Wells was already in
saddle, and Spot was snorting and prancing about in evident excitement. "I'll
leave the 'Henry' with Pete. I can't carry it and Jessie, too. Hand her up to me
and snuggle her well in the blanket." Farron hugged his child tight in his arms
one moment. She put her little arms around his neck and clung to him, looking
piteously into his face, yet shedding no tears. Something told her there was
danger; something whispered "Indians!" to the childish heart; but she stifled
her words of fear and obeyed her father's wish. "You are going down to
Phillips's where Ralph is, Jessie, darling. Sergeant Wells is going to carry
you. Be good and perfectly quiet. Don't cry, don't make a particle of noise,
pet. Whatever you do, don't make any noise. Promise papa." As bravely as she had
done when she waited that day at the station at Cheyenne, the little woman
choked back the rising sob. She nodded obedience, and then put up her bonny face
for her father's kiss. Who can tell of the dread, the emotion he felt as he
clung to the trusting little one for that short moment? "God guard you, my
baby," he muttered, as he carefully lifted her up to Wells, who circled her in
his strong right arm, and seated her on the overcoat that was rolled at his
pommel. Farron carefully wrapped the blanket about her tiny feet and legs, and
with a prayer on his lips and a clasp of the sergeant's bridle hand he bade him
go. Another moment, and Wells and little Jessie were loping away on Spot, and
were rapidly disappearing from view along the dim, moonlit trail. For a moment
the three ranchmen stood watching them. Far to the northeast a faint light could
be seen at Phillips's, and the roofs and walls were dimly visible in the rays of
the moon. The hoof-beats of old Spot soon died away in the distance, and all
seemed as still as the grave. Anxious as he was, Farron took heart. They stood
there silent a few moments after the horseman, with his precious charge, had
faded from view, and then Farron spoke,--

"They'll make it all safe. If the Indians were anywhere near us those mules of
mine would have given warning by this time." The words were hardly dropped from
his lips when from the other side of the house--from the stable at the corral--
there came, harsh and loud and sudden, the discordant bray of mules. The three
men started as if stung. "Quick! Pete. Fetch me any one of the horses. I'll
gallop after him. Hear those mules? That means the Indians are close at hand!"
And he sprang into the house for his revolvers, while Pete flew round to the
stable. It was not ten seconds before Farron reappeared at the front door. Pete
came running out from the stable, leading an astonished horse by the snaffle.
There was not even a blanket on the animal's back, or time to put one there.
Farron was up and astride the horse in an instant, but before he could give a
word of instruction to his men, there fell upon their ears a sound that appalled
them,--the distant thunder of hundreds of bounding hoofs; the shrill, vengeful
yells of a swarm of savage Indians; the crack! crack! of rifles; and, far down
the trail along which Wells had ridden but a few moments before, they could see
the flash of fire-arms. "O God! save my little one!" was Farron's agonized cry
as he struck his heels to his horse's ribs and went tearing down the valley in
mad and desperate ride to the rescue. Poor little Jessie! What hope to save her
now? CHAPTER VI. A NIGHT OF PERIL. For one moment the telegraph operator was
stunned and inert. Then his native pluck and the never-say-die spirit of the
young American came to his aid. He rose to his feet, seized his rifle, and ran
out to join Phillips and the few men who were busily at work barricading the
corral and throwing open the loop-holes in the log walls. Ralph had disappeared,
and no one knew whither he had gone until, just as the men were about to shut
the heavy door of the stable, they heard his young voice ring cheerily out
through the darkness,--

"Hold on there! Wait till Buford and I get out!" "Where on earth are you going?"
gasped Phillips, in great astonishment, as the boy appeared in the door-way,
leading his pet, which was bridled and saddled. "Going? Back to Lodge Pole,
quick as I can, to bring up the cavalry." "Ralph," said the soldier, "it will
never do. Now that Wells is gone I feel responsible for you, and your father
would never forgive me if anything befell you. We can't let you go?" Ralph's
eyes were snapping with excitement and his cheeks were flushed. It was a daring,
it was a gallant, thought,--the idea of riding back all alone through a country
that might be infested by savage foes; but it was the one chance. Farron and
Wells and the men might be able to hold out a few hours at the ranch up the
valley, and keep the Indians far enough away to prevent their burning them out.
Of course the ranch could not stand a long siege against Indian ingenuity, but
six hours, or eight at the utmost, would be sufficient time in which to bring
rescue to the inmates. By that time he could have an overwhelming force of
cavalry in the valley, and all would be safe. If word were not sent to them it
would be noon to-morrow before the advance of the Fifth would reach the Chug. By
that time all would be over with Farron. Ralph's brave young heart almost
stopped beating as he thought of the hideous fate that awaited the occupants of
the ranch unless help came to them. He felt that nothing but a light rider and a
fast horse could carry the news in time. He knew that he was the lightest rider
in the valley; that Buford was the fastest horse; that no man at the station
knew all the "breaks" and ravines, the ridges and "swales" of the country better
than he did. Farron's lay to the southwest, and thither probably all the Indians
were now riding. He could gallop off to the southeast, make a long _detour_, and
so reach Lodge Pole unseen. If he could get there in two hours and a half, the
cavalry could be up and away in fifteen minutes more, and in that case might
reach the Chug at daybreak or soon afterwards. One thing was certain, that to
succeed he must go instantly, before the Indians could come down and put a watch
around Phillips's. Of course it was a plan full of fearful risk. He took his
life in his hands. Death by the cruelest of tortures awaited him if captured,
and it was a prospect before which any boy and many a man might shrink in
dismay. But he had thought of little Jessie; the plan and the estimation of the
difficulties and dangers attending its execution had flashed through his mind in
less than five seconds, and his resolution was instantly made. He was a
soldier's son, was Ralph, and saying no word to any one he had run to the
stable, saddled and bridled Buford, and with his revolver at his hip was ready
for his ride. "It's no use of talking; I'm going," was all he said. "I know how
to dodge them just as well as any man here, and, as for father, he'd be ashamed
of me if I didn't go." Waiting for no reply,--before they could fully realize
what he meant,--the boy had chirruped to his pawing horse and away they darted
round the corner of the station, across the moonlit road, and then eastward down
the valley. "Phillips," exclaimed the soldier, "I never should have let him go.
I ought to have gone myself; but he's away before a man can stop him." "You're
too heavy to ride that horse, and there's none other here to match him. That
boy's got the sense of a plainsman any day, I tell you, and he'll make it all
right. The Indians are all up the valley and we'll hear 'em presently at
Farron's. He's keeping off so as to get round east of the bluffs, and then he'll
strike across country southward and not try for the road until he's eight or ten
miles away. Good for Ralph! It's a big thing he's doing, and his father will be
proud of him for it." But the telegraph operator was heavy-hearted. The men were
all anxious, and clustered again at the rear of the station. All this had taken
place in the space of three minutes, and they were eagerly watching for the next
demonstration from the marauders. Of the fate of poor Warner there could be
little doubt. It was evident that the Indians had overwhelmed and killed him.
There was a short struggle and the rapidly concentrating fire of rifles and
revolvers for a minute or two; then the yells had changed to triumphant whoops,
and then came silence. "They've got his scalp, poor fellow, and no man could
lend a hand to help him. God grant they're all safe inside up there at
Farron's," said one of the party; it was the only comment made on the tragedy
that had been enacted before them. "Hullo! What's that?" "It's the flash of
rifles again. They've sighted Ralph!" cried the soldier. "Not a bit of it.
Ralph's off here to the eastward. They're firing and chasing up the valley.
Perhaps Warner got away after all. _Look_ at 'em! See! The flashes are getting
farther south all the time! They've headed him off from Farron's, whoever it is,
and he's making for the road. The cowardly hounds! There's a hundred of 'em, I
reckon, on one poor hunted white man, and here we are with our hands tied!" For
a few minutes more the sound of shots and yells and thundering hoofs came
vividly through the still night air. All the time it was drifting away
southward, and gradually approached the road. One of the ranchmen begged
Phillips to let him have a horse and go out in the direction of the firing to
reconnoitre and see what had happened, but it would have been madness to make
the attempt, and the request was met with a prompt refusal. "We shall need every
man here soon enough at the rate things are going," was the answer. "That may
have been Warner escaping, or it may have been one of Farron's men trying to get
through to us or else riding off southward to find the cavalry. Perhaps it was
Sergeant Wells. Whoever it was, they've had a two- or three-mile chase and have
probably got him by this time. The firing in that direction is all over. Now the
fun will begin up at the ranch. Then they'll come for us." "It's my fault!"
groaned the operator. "What a night,--and all my fault! I ought to have told
them at Lodge Pole when I could." "Tell them what?" said Phillips. "You didn't
know a thing about their movements until Warner got here! What could you have
said if you'd had the chance? The cavalry can't move on mere rumors or ideas
that any chance man has who comes to the station in a panic. It has just come
all of a sudden, in a way we couldn't foresee. "All I'm worrying about now is
little Jessie, up there at Farron's. I'm afraid Warner's gone, and possibly some
one else; but if Farron can only hold out against these fellows until daylight I
think he and his little one will be safe. Watch here, two of you, now, while I
go back to the house a moment." And so, arms at hand and in breathless silence,
the little group watched and waited. All was quiet at the upper ranch. Farron's
light had been extinguished soon after it had replied to the signal from below,
but his roofs and walls were dimly visible in the moonlight. The distance was
too great for the besiegers to be discerned if any were investing his place. The
quiet lasted only a few moments. Then suddenly there came from up the valley and
close around those distant roofs the faint sound of rapid firing. Paled by the
moonlight into tiny, ruddy flashes, the flame of each report could be seen by
the sharper eyes among the few watchers at Phillips's. The attack had indeed
begun at Farron's. One of the men ran in to tell the news to Phillips, who
presently came out and joined the party. No sign of Indians had yet been seen
around them, but as they crouched there by the corral, eagerly watching the
flashes that told of the distant struggle, and listening to the sounds of
combat, there rose upon the air, over to the northward and apparently just at
the base of the line of bluffs, the yelps and prolonged bark of the coyote. It
died away, and then, far on to the southward, somewhere about the slopes where
the road climbed the divide, there came an answering yelp, shrill, querulous,
and prolonged. "Know what that is, boys?" queried Phillips. "Coyotes, I s'pose,"
answered one of the men,--a comparatively new hand. "Coyotes are scarce in this
neighborhood nowadays. Those are Sioux signals, and we are surrounded. No man in
this crowd could get out now. Ralph ain't out a moment too soon. God speed him!
If Farron don't owe his life and little Jessie's to that boy's bravery, it'll be
because nobody could get to them in time to save them. Why _didn't_ he send her
here?" Bad as was the outlook, anxious as were all their hearts, what was their
distress to what it would have been had they known the truth,--that Warner lay
only a mile up the trail, stripped, scalped, gashed, and mutilated! Still warm,
yet stone dead! And that all alone, with little Jessie in his arms, Sergeant
Wells had ridden down that trail into the very midst of the thronging foe! Let
us follow him, for he is a soldier who deserves the faith that Farron placed in
him. For a few moments after leaving the ranch the sergeant rides along at rapid
lope, glancing keenly over the broad, open valley for any sign that might reveal
the presence of hostile Indians, and then hopefully at the distant light at the
station. He holds little Jessie in firm but gentle clasp, and speaks in fond
encouragement every moment or two. She is bundled like a pappoose in the
blanket, but her big, dark eyes look up trustfully into his, and once or twice
she faintly smiles. All seems so quiet; all so secure in the soldier's strong
clasp. "That's my brave little girl!" says the sergeant. "Papa was right when he
told us down at Russell that he had the pluckiest little daughter in all
Wyoming. It isn't every baby that would take a night ride with an old dragoon so
quietly." He bends down and softly kisses the thick, curling hair that hangs
over her forehead. Then his keen eye again sweeps over the valley, and he
touches his charger's flank with the spur. "_Looks_ all clear," he mutters, "but
I've seen a hundred Indians spring up out of a flatter plain than that. They'll
skulk behind the smallest kind of a ridge, and not show a feather until one runs
right in among them. There might be dozens of them off there beyond the Chug at
this moment, and I not be able to see hair or hide of 'em." Almost half way to
Phillips's, and still all is quiet. Then he notes that far ahead the low ridge,
a few hundred yards to his left, sweeps round nearly to the trail, and dips into
the general level of the prairie within short pistol-shot of the path along
which he is riding. He is yet fully three-quarters of a mile from the place
where the ridge so nearly meets the trail, but it is plainly visible now in the
silvery moonlight. "If they should have come down, and should be all ranged
behind that ridge now, 'twould be a fearful scrape for this poor little mite,"
he thinks, and then, soldier-like, sets himself to considering what his course
should be if the enemy were suddenly to burst upon him from behind that very
curtain. "Turn and run for it, of course!" he mutters. "Unless they should cut
me off, which they couldn't do unless some of 'em were far back along behind the
ridge. Hullo! A shadow on the trail! Coming this way. A horseman. That's good!
They've sent out a man to meet me." The sound of iron-shod hoofs that came
faintly across the wide distance from the galloping shadow carried to the
sergeant's practised ear the assurance that the advancing horseman was not an
Indian. After the suspense of that lonely and silent ride, in the midst of
unknown dangers, Wells felt a deep sense of relief. "The road is clear between
here and Phillips's, that's certain," he thought. "I'll take Jessie on to the
station, and then go back to Farron's. I wonder what news that horseman brings,
that he rides so hard." Still on came the horseman. All was quiet, and it seemed
that in five minutes more he would have the news the stranger was bringing,--of
safety, he hoped. Jessie, at any rate, should not be frightened unless danger
came actually upon them. He quickened his horse's gait, and looked smilingly
down into Jessie's face. "It's all right, little one! Somebody is coming up the
trail from Phillips's, so everything must be safe," he told her. Then came a
cruel awakening. Quick, sudden, thrilling, there burst upon the night a mad
chorus of shouts and shots and the accompaniment of thundering hoofs. Out from
the sheltering ridge by dozens, gleaming, flashing through the moonlight, he saw
the warriors sweep down upon the hapless stranger far in front. He reined
instantly his snorting and affrighted horse, and little Jessie, with one low cry
of terror, tried to release her arms from the circling blanket and throw them
about his neck; but he held her tight. He grasped the reins more firmly, gave
one quick glance to his left and rear, and, to his dismay, discovered that he,
too, was well-nigh hemmed in; that, swift and ruthless as the flight of hawks, a
dozen warriors were bounding over the prairie towards him, to cut off his
escape. He had not an instant to lose. He whirled his practised troop horse to
the right about, and sent him leaping madly through the night back for Farron's
ranch. Even as he sped along, he bent low over his charger's neck, and, holding
the terror-stricken child to his breast, managed to speak a word to keep up her
courage. "We'll beat them yet, my bonny bird!" he muttered, though at that
instant he heard the triumphant whoops that told him a scalp was taken on the
trail behind him, though at that very instant he saw that warriors, dashing from
that teeming ridge, had headed him; that he must veer from the trail as he
neared the ranch, and trust to Farron and his men to drive off his pursuers.
Already the yells of his pursuers thrilled upon the ear. They had opened fire,
and their wide-aimed bullets went whizzing harmlessly into space. His wary eye
could see that the Indians on his right front were making a wide circle, so as
to meet him when close to the goal, and he was burdened with that helpless
child, and could not make fight even for his own life. Drop her and save
himself? He would not entertain the thought. No, though it be his only chance to
escape! His horse panted heavily, and still there lay a mile of open prairie
between him and shelter; still those bounding ponies, with their yelping,
screeching riders, were fast closing upon him, when suddenly through the dim and
ghostly light there loomed another shadow, wild and daring,--a rider who came
towards him at full speed. Because of the daring of the feat to ride thus alone
into the teeth of a dozen foemen, the sergeant was sure, before he could see the
man, that the approaching horseman was Farron, rushing to the rescue of his
child. Wells shouted a trooper's loud hurrah, and then, "Rein up, Farron! Halt
where you are, and open fire! That'll keep 'em off!" Though racing towards him
at thundering speed, Farron heard and understood his words, for in another
moment his "Henry" was barking its challenge at the foe, and sending bullet
after bullet whistling out across the prairie. The flashing, feather-streaming
shadows swerved to right and left, and swept away in big circles. Then Farron
stretched out his arms,--no time for word of any kind,--and Wells laid in them
the sobbing child, and seized in turn the brown and precious rifle. "Off with
you, Farron! Straight for home now. I'll keep 'em back." And the sergeant in
turn reined his horse, fronted the foe, and opened rapid fire, though with
little hope of hitting horse or man. Disregarding the bullets that sang past his
ears, he sent shot after shot at the shadowy riders, checked now, and circling
far out on the prairie, until once more he could look about him, and see that
Farron had reached the ranch, and had thrown himself from his horse. Then slowly
he turned back, fronting now and then to answer the shots that came singing by
him, and to hurrah with delight when, as the Indians came within range of the
ranch, its inmates opened fire on them, and a pony sent a yelping rider flying
over his head, as he stumbled and plunged to earth, shot through the body. Then
Wells turned in earnest and made a final dash for the corral. Then his own good
steed, that had borne them both so bravely, suddenly wavered and tottered under
him. He knew too well that the gallant horse had received his death-blow even
before he went heavily to ground within fifty yards of the ranch. Wells was up
in an instant, unharmed, and made a rush, stooping low. Another moment, and he
was drawn within the door-way, panting and exhausted, but safe. He listened with
amazement to the outward sounds of shots and hoofs and yells dying away into the
distance southward. "What on earth is that?" he asked. "It's that scoundrel,
Pete. He's taken my horse and deserted!" was Farron's breathless answer. "I hope
they'll catch and kill him! I despise a coward!" CHAPTER VII. THE RESCUE. All
the time, travelling at rapid lope, but at the same time saving Buford's
strength for sudden emergency, Ralph McCrea rode warily through the night. He
kept far to east of the high ridge of the "Buffalo Hill,"--Who knew what Indian
eyes might be watching there?--and mile after mile he wound among the ravines
and swales which he had learned so well in by-gone days when he little dreamed
of the value that his "plainscraft" might be to him. For a while his heart beat
like a trip-hammer; every echo of his courser's footfall seemed to him to be the
rush of coming warriors, and time and again he glanced nervously over his
shoulder, dreading pursuit. But he never wavered in his gallant purpose. The
long ridge was soon left to his right rear, and now he began to edge over
towards the west, intending in this way to reach the road at a point where there
would lie before him a fifteen-mile stretch of good "going ground." Over that he
meant to send Buford at full speed. Since starting he had heard no sound of the
fray; the ridge and the distance had swallowed up the clamor; but he knew full
well that the raiding Indians would do their utmost this night to burn the
Farron ranch and kill or capture its inmates. Every recurring thought of the
peril of his beleaguered friends prompted him to spur his faithful steed, but he
had been reared in the cavalry and taught never to drive a willing horse to
death. The long, sweeping, elastic strides with which Buford bore him over the
rolling prairie served their needs far better than a mad race of a mile or two,
ending in a complete break-down, would have done. At last, gleaming in the
moonlight, he sighted the hard-beaten road as it twisted and wound over the
slopes, and in a few moments more rode beneath the single wire of the telegraph
line, and then gave Buford a gentle touch of the steel. He had made a circuit of
ten miles or more to reach this point, and was now, he judged, about seven miles
below the station and five miles from Farron's ranch. He glanced over his right
shoulder and anxiously searched the sky and horizon. Intervening "divides" shut
him off from a view of the valley, but he saw that as yet no glare of flames
proceeded from it. "Thus far the defence has held its own," he said, hopefully,
to himself. "Now, if Buford and I can only reach Lodge Pole unmolested there may
yet be time." Ascending a gentle slope he reined Buford down to a walk, so that
his pet might have a little breathing spell. As he arrived at the crest he cast
an eager glance over the next "reach" of prairie landscape, and then--his heart
seemed to leap to his throat and a chill wave to rush through his veins. Surely
he saw a horseman dart behind the low mound off to the west. This convinced him
that the Indians had discovered and pursued him. After the Indian fashion they
had not come squarely along his trail and thus driven him ahead at increased
speed, but with the savage science of their warfare, they were working past him,
far to his right, intending to head him off. To his left front the country was
clear, and he could see over it for a considerable distance. The road, after
winding through some intermediate ravines ahead, swept around to the left. He
had almost determined to leave the trail and make a bee-line across country, and
so to outrun the foeman to his right, when, twice or thrice, he caught the gleam
of steel or silver or nickel-plate beyond the low ground in the very direction
in which he had thought to flee. His heart sank low now, for the sight conveyed
to his mind but one idea,--that the gleams were the flashing of moonbeams on the
barbaric ornaments of Indians, as he had seen them flash an hour ago when the
warriors raced forth into the valley of the Chug. Were the Indians ahead of him
then, and on both sides of the road? One thing he had to do, and to do
instantly: ride into the first hollow he could find, dismount, crawl to the
ridge and peer around him,--study which way to ride if he should have to make a
race for his own life now,--and give Buford time to gather himself for the
effort. The boy's brave spirit was wrought well-nigh to the limit. His eyes
clouded as he thought of his father and the faithful troop, miles and miles away
and all unconscious of his deadly peril; of his anxious and loving mother,
wakeful and watching at Laramie, doubtless informed of the Indian raid by this
time; powerless to help him, but praying God to watch over her boy. He looked
aloft at the starry heavens and lifted his heart in one brief prayer: "God guard
and guide me. I've tried to do my duty as a soldier's son." And somehow he felt
nerved and strengthened. He grasped the handle of his cavalry revolver as he
guided Buford down to the right where there seemed to be a hollow among the
slopes. Just as he came trotting briskly round a little shoulder of the nearest
ridge there was a rush and patter of hoofs on the other side of it, an
exclamation, half-terror, half-menace, a flash and a shot that whizzed far over
his head. A dark, shadowy horseman went scurrying off into space as fast as a
spurred and startled horse could carry him; a broad-brimmed slouch hat was blown
back to him as a parting _souvenir_, and Ralph McCrea shouted with relief and
merriment as he realized that some man--a ranchman doubtless--had taken him for
an Indian and had "stampeded," scared out of his wits. Ralph dismounted, picked
up the hat, swung himself again into saddle, and with rejoicing heart sped away
again on his mission. There were still those suspicious flashes off to the east
that he must dodge, and to avoid them he shaped his course well to the west. Let
us turn for a moment to the camp of the cavalry down in Lodge Pole Valley. We
have not heard from them since early evening when the operator announced his
intention of going over to have a smoke and a chat with some of his friends on
guard. "Taps," the signal to extinguish lights and go to bed, had sounded early
and, so far as the operator at Lodge Pole knew when he closed his instrument,
the battalion had gladly obeyed the summons. It happened, however, that the
colonel had been talking with one of his most trusted captains as they left the
office a short time before, and the result of that brief talk was that the
latter walked briskly away towards the bivouac fires of his troop and called
"Sergeant Stauffer!" A tall, dark-eyed, bronzed trooper quickly arose, dropped
his pipe, and strode over to where his captain stood in the flickering light,
and, saluting, "stood attention" and waited. "Sergeant, let the quartermaster-
sergeant and six men stay here to load our baggage in the morning. Mount the
rest of the troop at once, without any noise,--fully equipped." The sergeant was
too old a soldier even to look surprised. In fifteen minutes, with hardly a
sound of unusual preparation, fifty horsemen had "led into line," had mounted,
and were riding silently off northward. The colonel said to the captain, as he
gave him a word of good-by,--

"I don't know that you'll find anything out of the way at all, but, with such
indications, I believe it best to throw forward a small force to look after the
Chug Valley until we come up. We'll be with you by dinner-time." Two hours
later, when the telegraph operator, breathless and excited, rushed into the
colonel's tent and woke him with the news that his wire was cut up towards the
Chug, the colonel was devoutly thankful for the inspiration that prompted him to
send "K" Troop forward through the darkness. He bade his adjutant, the light-
weight of the officers then on duty, take his own favorite racer, Van, and speed
away on the trail of "K" Troop, tell them that the line was cut,--that there was
trouble ahead; to push on lively with what force they had, and that two more
companies would be hurried to their support. At midnight "K" Troop, riding
easily along in the moonlight, had travelled a little over half the distance to
Phillips's ranch. The lieutenant, who with two or three troopers was scouting
far in advance, halted at the crest of a high ridge over which the road climbs,
and dismounted his little party for a brief rest while he went up ahead to
reconnoitre. Cavalrymen in the Indian country never ride into full view on top
of a "divide" until after some one of their number has carefully looked over the
ground beyond. There was nothing in sight that gave cause for long inspection,
or that warranted the officer's taking out his field-glasses. He could see the
line of hills back of the Chugwater Valley, and all was calm and placid. The
valley itself lay some hundreds of feet below his point of observation, and
beginning far off to his left ran northeastward until one of its branches
crossed the trail along which the troop was riding. Returning to his party, the
lieutenant's eye was attracted, for the fifth or sixth time since they had left
Lodge Pole, by little gleams and flashes of light off in the distance, and he
muttered, in a somewhat disparaging manner, to some of the members of his own
troop,--

"Now, what the dickens can those men be carrying to make such a streak as that?
One would suppose that Arizona would have taken all the nonsense out of 'em, but
that glimmer must come from bright bits or buckles, or something of the kind,
for we haven't a sabre with us. What makes those little flashes, sergeant?" he
asked, impatiently. "It's some of the tin canteens, sir. The cloth is all worn
off a dozen of 'em, and when the moonlight strikes 'em it makes a flash almost
like a mirror." "Indeed it does, and would betray our coming miles away of a
moonlit night. We'll drop all those things at Laramie. Hullo! Mount, men,
lively!" The young officer and his party suddenly sprang to saddle. A clatter of
distant hoofs was heard rapidly approaching along the hard-beaten road. Nearer,
nearer they came at tearing gallop. The lieutenant rode cautiously forward to
where he could peer over the crest. "Somebody riding like mad!" he muttered.
"Hatless and demoralized. Who comes _there_?" he shouted aloud. "Halt, whoever
you are!" Pulling up a panting horse, pale, wide-eyed, almost exhausted, a young
ranchman rode into the midst of the group. It was half a minute before he could
speak. When at last he recovered breath, it was a marvellous tale that he told.
"The Chug's crammed with Indians. They've killed all down at Phillips's, and got
all around Farron's,--hundreds of 'em. Sergeant Wells tried to run away with
Jessie, but they cut him off, and he'd have been killed and Jessie captured but
for me and Farron. We charged through 'em, and got 'em back to the ranch. Then
the Indians attacked us there, and there was only four of us, and some one had
to cut his way out. Wells said you fellows were down at Lodge Pole, but he
da'sn't try it. I had to." Here "Pete" looked important, and gave his pistol-
belt a hitch. "I must 'a' killed six of 'em," he continued. "Both my revolvers
empty, and I dropped one of 'em on the trail. My hat was shot clean off my head,
but they missed me, and I got through. They chased me every inch of the way up
to a mile back over yonder. I shot the last one there. But how many men you
got?" "About fifty," answered the lieutenant. "We'll push ahead at once. You
guide us." "I ain't going ahead with no fifty. I tell you there's a thousand
Indians there. Where's the rest of the regiment?" "Back at Lodge Pole. Go on, if
you like, and tell them your story. Here's the captain now." With new and
imposing additions, Pete told the story a second time. Barely waiting to hear it
through, the captain's voice rang along the eager column,--

"Forward, trot, _march_!" Away went the troop full tilt for the Chug, while the
ranchman rode rearward until he met the supporting squadron two hours behind.
Ten minutes after parting with their informant, the officers of "K" Troop, well
out in front of their men, caught sight of a daring horseman sweeping at full
gallop down from some high bluffs to their left and front. "Rides like an
Indian," said the captain; "but no Sioux would come down at us like that, waving
a hat, too. By Jupiter! It's Ralph McCrea! How are you, boy? What's wrong at the
Chug?" "Farron's surrounded, and I believe Warner's killed!" said Ralph,
breathless. "Thank God, you're here so far ahead of where I expected to find
you! We'll get there in time now;" and he turned his panting horse and rode
eagerly along by the captain's side. "And you've not been chased? You've seen
nobody?" was the lieutenant's question. "Nobody but a white man, worse scared
than I was, who left his hat behind when I ran upon him a mile back here." Even
in the excitement and urgent haste of the moment, there went up a shout of
laughter at the expense of Pete; but as they reached the next divide, and got
another look well to the front, the laughter gave place to the grinding of teeth
and muttered malediction. A broad glare was in the northern sky, and smoke and
flame were rolling up from the still distant valley of the Chug, and now the
word was "Gallop!" Fifteen minutes of hard, breathless riding followed. Horses
snorted and plunged in eager race with their fellows; officers warned even as
they galloped, "Steady, there! Keep back! Keep your places, men!" Bearded,
bright-eyed troopers, with teeth set hard together and straining muscles,
grasped their ready carbines, and thrust home the grim copper cartridges. On and
on, as the flaring beacon grew redder and fiercer ahead; on and on, until they
were almost at the valley's edge, and then young Ralph, out at the front with
the veteran captain, panted to him, in wild excitement that he strove manfully
to control,--

"Now keep well over to the left, captain! I know the ground well. It's all open.
We can sweep down from behind that ridge, and they'll never look for us or think
of us till we're right among them. Hear them yell!" "Ay, ay, Ralph! Lead the
way. Ready now, men!" He turned in his saddle. "Not a word till I order
'Charge!' Then yell all you want to." Down into the ravine they thunder; round
the moonlit slope they sweep; swift they gallop through the shadows of the
eastward bluffs; nearer and nearer they come, manes and tails streaming in the
night wind; horses panting hard, but never flagging. Listen! Hear those shots
and yells and war-whoops! Listen to the hideous crackling of the flames! Mark
the vengeful triumph in those savage howls! Already the fire has leaped from the
sheds to the rough shingling. The last hope of the sore-besieged is gone. Then,
with sudden blare of trumpet, with ringing cheer, with thundering hoof and
streaming pennon and thrilling rattle of carbine and pistol; with one
magnificent, triumphant burst of speed the troop comes whirling out from the
covert of the bluff and sweeps all before it down the valley. Away go Sioux and
Cheyenne; away, yelling shrill warning, go warrior and chief; away, down stream,
past the stiffening form of the brave fellow they killed; away past the station
where the loop-holes blaze with rifle-shots and ring with exultant cheers; away
across the road and down the winding valley, and so far to the north and the
sheltering arms of the reservation,--and one more Indian raid is over. But at
the ranch, while willing hands were dashing water on the flames, Ralph and the
lieutenant sprang inside the door-way just as Farron lifted from a deep, cellar-
like aperture in the middle of the floor a sobbing yet wonderfully happy little
maiden. She clung to him hysterically, as he shook hands with one after another
of the few rescuers who had time to hurry in. Wells, with bandaged head and arm,
was sitting at his post, his "Henry" still between his knees, and he looked
volumes of pride and delight into his young friend's sparkling eyes. Pete, of
course, was nowhere to be seen. Jake, with a rifle-bullet through his shoulder,
was grinning pale gratification at the troopers who came in, and then there was
a moment's silence as the captain entered. Farron stepped forward and held forth
his hand. Tears were starting from his eyes. "You've saved me and my little
girl, captain. I never can thank you enough." "Bosh! Never mind us. Where's
Ralph McCrea? There's the boy you can thank for it all. _He_ led us!" And though
hot blushes sprang to the youngster's cheeks, and he, too, would have disclaimed
any credit for the rescue, the soldiers would not have it so. 'Twas Ralph who
dared that night-ride to bring the direful news; 'twas Ralph who guided them by
the shortest, quickest route, and was with the foremost in the charge. And so, a
minute after, when Farron unclasped little Jessie's arms from about his own
neck, he whispered in her ear,--

"'Twas Ralph who saved us, baby. You must thank him for me, too." And so, just
as the sun was coming up, the little girl with big, dark eyes whom we saw
sitting in the railway station at Cheyenne, waiting wearily and patiently for
her father's coming, and sobbing her relief and joy when she finally caught
sight of Ralph, was once more nestling a tear-wet face to his and clasping him
in her little arms, and thanking him with all her loyal, loving heart for the
gallant rescue that had come to them just in time. Four days later there was a
gathering at Laramie. The general had come; the Fifth were there in camp, and a
group of officers had assembled on the parade after the brief review of the
command. The general turned from his staff, and singled out a captain of cavalry
who stood close at hand. "McCrea, I want to see that boy of yours. Where is he?"
An orderly sped away to the group of spectators and returned with a silent and
embarrassed youth, who raised his hat respectfully, but said no word. The
general stepped forward and held out both his hands. "I'm proud to shake hands
with you, young gentleman. I've heard all about you from the Fifth. You ought to
go to West Point and be a cavalry officer." "There's nothing I so much wish,
general," stammered Ralph, with beaming eyes and burning cheeks. "Then we'll
telegraph his name to Washington this very day, gentlemen. I was asked to
designate some young man for West Point who thoroughly deserved it, and is not
this appointment well won?" FROM "THE POINT" TO THE PLAINS. CHAPTER I. A CADET'S
SISTER. She was standing at the very end of the forward deck, and, with flushing
cheeks and sparkling eyes, gazing eagerly upon the scene before her. Swiftly,
smoothly rounding the rugged promontory on the right, the steamer was just
turning into the highland "reach" at Fort Montgomery and heading straight away
for the landings on the sunset shore. It was only mid-May, but the winter had
been mild, the spring early, and now the heights on either side were clothed in
raiment of the freshest, coolest green; the vines were climbing in luxuriant
leaf all over the face of the rocky scarp that hemmed the swirling tide of the
Hudson; the radiance of the evening sunshine bathed all the eastern shores in
mellow light and left the dark slopes and deep gorges of the opposite range all
the deeper and darker by contrast. A lively breeze had driven most of the
passengers within doors as they sped through the broad waters of the Tappan Zee,
but, once within the sheltering traverses of Dunderberg and the heights beyond,
many of their number reappeared upon the promenade deck, and first among them
was the bonnie little maid now clinging to the guard-rail at the very prow, and,
heedless of fluttering skirt or fly-away curl, watching with all her soul in her
bright blue eyes for the first glimpse of the haven where she would be. No eyes
on earth look so eagerly for the grim, gray _facade_ of the riding-hall or the
domes and turrets of the library building as those of a girl who has spent the
previous summer at West Point. Utterly absorbed in her watch, she gave no heed
to other passengers who presently took their station close at hand. One was a
tall, dark-eyed, dark-haired young lady in simple and substantial travelling-
dress. With her were two men in tweeds and Derby hats, and to these companions
she constantly turned with questions as to prominent objects in the rich and
varied landscape. It was evident that she was seeing for the first time sights
that had been described to her time and again, for she was familiar with every
name. One of the party was a man of over fifty years,--bronzed of face and gray
of hair, but with erect carriage and piercing black eyes that spoke of vigor,
energy, and probably of a life in the open air. It needed not the tri-colored
button of the Loyal Legion in the lapel of his coat to tell that he was a
soldier. Any one who chose to look--and there were not a few--could speedily
have seen, too, that these were father and daughter. The other man was still
taller than the dark, wiry, slim-built soldier, but in years he was not more
than twenty-eight or nine. His eyes, brows, hair, and the heavy moustache that
drooped over his mouth were all of a dark, soft brown. His complexion was clear
and ruddy; his frame powerful and athletic. Most of the time he stood a silent
but attentive listener to the eager talk between the young lady and her father,
but his kindly eyes rarely left her face; he was ready to respond when she
turned to question him, and when he spoke it was with the unmistakable
intonation of the South. The deep, mellow tones of the bell were booming out
their landing signal as the steamer shot into the shadow of a high, rocky cliff.
Far aloft on the overhanging piazzas of a big hotel, fluttering handkerchiefs
greeted the passengers on the decks below. Many eyes were turned thither in
recognition of the salute, but not those of the young girl at the bow. One
might, indeed, have declared her resentful of this intermediate stop. The
instant the gray walls of the riding-school had come into view she had
signalled, eagerly, with a wave of her hand, to a gentleman and lady seated in
quiet conversation under the shelter of the deck. Presently the former, a burly,
broad-shouldered man of forty or thereabouts, came sauntering forward and stood
close behind her. "Well, Nan! Most there, I see. Think you can hold on five
minutes longer, or shall I toss you over and let you swim for it?" For answer
Miss Nan clasps a wooden pillar in her gray-gloved hands, and tilts excitedly on
the toes of her tiny boots, never once relaxing her gaze on the dock a mile or
more away up-stream. "Just think of being so near Willy--and all of them--and
not seeing one to speak to until after parade," she finally says. "Simply
inhuman!" answers her companion with commendable gravity, but with humorous
twinkle about his eyes. "Is it worth all the long journey, and all the
excitement in which your mother tells me you've been plunged for the past
month?" "Worth it, Uncle Jack?" and the blue eyes flash upon him indignantly.
"Worth it? You wouldn't ask if you knew it all, as I do." "Possibly not," says
Uncle Jack, whimsically. "I haven't the advantage of being a girl with a brother
and a baker's dozen of beaux in bell buttons and gray. I'm only an old fossil of
a 'cit,' with a scamp of a nephew and that limited conception of the delights of
West Point which one can derive from running up there every time that versatile
youngster gets into a new scrape. You'll admit my opportunities have been
frequent." "It isn't Willy's fault, and you know it, Uncle Jack, though we all
know how good you've been; but he's had more bad luck and--and--injustice than
any cadet in the corps. Lots of his classmates told me so." "Yes," says Uncle
Jack, musingly. "That is what your blessed mother, yonder, wrote me when I went
up last winter, the time Billy submitted that explanation to the commandant with
its pleasing reference to the fox that had lost its tail--you doubtless recall
the incident--and came within an ace of dismissal in consequence." "I don't
care!" interrupts Miss Nan, with flashing eyes. "Will had provocation enough to
say much worse things; Jimmy Frazer wrote me so, and said the whole class was
sticking up for him." "I do not remember having had the honor of meeting Jimmy
Frazer," remarks Uncle Jack, with an aggravating drawl that is peculiar to him.
"Possibly he was one of the young gentlemen who didn't call, owing to some
temporary impediment in the way of light prison----"

"Yes; and all because he took Will's part, as I believe," is the impetuous
reply. "Oh! I'll be so thankful when they're out of it all." "So will they, no
doubt. 'Sticking up'--wasn't that Mr. Frazer's expression?--for Bill seems to
have been an expensive luxury all round. Wonder if sticking up is something they
continue when they get to their regiments? Billy has two or three weeks yet in
which to ruin his chances of ever reaching one, and he has exhibited astonishing
aptitude for tripping himself up thus far." "Uncle Jack! How can you speak so of
Willy, when he is so devoted to you? When he gets to his regiment there won't be
any Lieutenant Lee to nag and worry him night and day. _He's_ the cause of all
the trouble." "That so?" drawls Uncle Jack. "I didn't happen to meet Mr. Lee,
either,--he was away on leave; but as Bill and your mother had some such views,
I looked into things a bit. It appears to be a matter of record that my
enterprising nephew had more demerit before the advent of Mr. Lee than since. As
for 'extras' and confinements, his stock was always big enough to bear the
market down to bottom prices." The boat is once more under way, and a lull in
the chat close at hand induces Uncle Jack to look about him. The younger of the
two men lately standing with the dark-eyed girl has quietly withdrawn, and is
now shouldering his way to a point out of ear-shot. There he calmly turns and
waits; his glance again resting upon her whose side he has so suddenly quitted.
She has followed him with her eyes until he stops; then with heightened color
resumes a low-toned chat with her father. Uncle Jack is a keen observer, and his
next words are inaudible except to his niece. "Nan, my child, I apprehend that
remarks upon the characteristics of the officers at the Point had best be
confined to the bosom of the family. We may be in their very midst." She turns,
flushing, and for the first time her blue eyes meet the dark ones of the older
girl. Her cheeks redden still more, and she whirls about again. "I can't help
it, Uncle Jack," she murmurs. "I'd just like to tell them all what I think of
Will's troubles." "Oh! Candor is to be admired of all things," says Uncle Jack,
airily. "Still it is just as well to observe the old adage, 'Be sure you're
right,' etc. Now _I_ own to being rather fond of Bill, despite all the worry he
has given your mother, and all the bother he has been to me----"

"All the worry that others have given _him_, you ought to say, Uncle Jack."
"W-e-ll, har-d-ly. It didn't seem to me that the corps, as a rule, thought Billy
the victim of persecution." "They all tell _me_ so, at least," is the indignant
outburst. "Do they, Nan? Well, of course, that settles it. Still, there were a
few who reluctantly admitted having other views when I pressed them closely."
"Then they were no friends of Willy's, or mine either!" "Now, do you know, I
thought just the other way? I thought one of them, especially, a very stanch
friend of Billy's and yours, too, Nan, but Billy seems to consider advisers in
the light of adversaries." A moment's pause. Then, with cheeks still red, and
plucking at the rope netting with nervous fingers, Miss Nan essays a tentative.
Her eyes are downcast as she asks,--

"I suppose you mean Mr. Stanley?" "The very man, Nanette; very much of a man to
my thinking." The bronzed soldier standing near cannot but have heard the name
and the words. His face takes on a glow and the black eyes kindle. "Mr. Stanley
would not say to _me_ that Willy is to blame," pouts the maiden, and her little
foot is beating impatiently tattoo on the deck. "Neither would I--just now--if I
were Mr. Stanley; but all the same, he decidedly opposed the view that Mr. Lee
was 'down on Billy,' as your mother seems to think." "That's because Mr. Lee is
tactical officer commanding the company, and Mr. Stanley is cadet captain. Oh! I
will take him to task if he has been--been----"

But she does not finish. She has turned quickly in speaking, her hand clutching
a little knot of bell buttons hanging by a chain at the front of her dress. She
has turned just in time to catch a warning glance in Uncle Jack's twinkling
eyes, and to see a grim smile lurking under the gray moustache of the gentleman
with the Loyal Legion button who is leading away the tall young lady with the
dark hair. In another moment they have rejoined the third member of their party,
--he who first withdrew,--and it is evident that something has happened which
gives them all much amusement. They are chatting eagerly together, laughing not
a little, although the laughter, like their words, is entirely inaudible to Miss
Nan. But she feels a twinge of indignation when the tall girl turns and looks
directly at her. There is nothing unkindly in the glance. There even is
merriment in the dark, handsome eyes and lurking among the dimples around that
beautiful mouth. Why did those eyes--so heavily fringed, so thickly shaded--seem
to her familiar as old friends? Nan could have vowed she had somewhere met that
girl before, and now that girl was laughing at her. Not rudely, not
aggressively, to be sure,--she had turned away again the instant she saw that
the little maiden's eyes were upon her,--but all the same, said Nan to herself,
she _was_ laughing. They were all laughing, and it must have been because of her
outspoken defence of Brother Will and equally outspoken defiance of his
persecutors. What made it worse was that Uncle Jack was laughing too. "Do you
know who they are?" she demands, indignantly. "Not I, Nan," responds Uncle Jack.
"Never saw them before in my life, but I warrant we see them again, and at the
Point, too. Come, child. There's our bell, and we must start for the gangway.
Your mother is hailing us now. Never mind this time, little woman," he
continues, kindly, as he notes the cloud on her brow. "I don't think any harm
has been done, but it is just as well not to be impetuous in public speech. Ah!
I thought so. They are to get off here with us." Three minutes more and a little
stream of passengers flows out upon the broad government dock, and, as luck
would have it, Uncle Jack and his charges are just behind the trio in which, by
this time, Miss Nan is deeply, if not painfully, interested. A soldier in the
undress uniform of a corporal of artillery hastens forward and, saluting,
stretches forth his hand to take the satchel carried by the tall man with the
brown moustache. "The lieutenant's carriage is at the gate," he says, whereat
Uncle Jack, who is conducting her mother just in front, looks back over his
shoulder and nods compassionately at Nan. "Has any despatch been sent down to
meet Colonel Stanley?" she hears the tall man inquire, and this time Uncle
Jack's backward glance is a combination of mischief and concern. "Nothing, sir,
and the adjutant's orderly is here now. This is all he brought down," and the
corporal hands to the inquirer a note, the superscription of which the young
officer quickly scans; then turns and, while his soft brown eyes light with
kindly interest and he bares his shapely head, accosts the lady on Uncle Jack's
arm,--

"Pardon me, madam. This note must be for you. Mrs. McKay, is it not?" And as her
mother smiles her thanks and the others turn away, Nan's eager eyes catch sight
of Will's well-known writing. Mrs. McKay rapidly reads it as Uncle Jack is
bestowing bags and bundles in the omnibus and feeing the acceptive porter, who
now rushes back to the boat in the nick of time. "Awful sorry I can't get up to
the hotel to see you," says the      note, dolorously, but by no means
unexpectedly. "I'm in confinement      and can't get a permit. Come to the
officer-in-charge's office      right after supper, and he'll let me see you
there awhile. Stanley's officer of the day, and he'll be there to show the way.
In haste,                                                         WILL." "Now
_isn't_ that poor Willy's luck every time!" exclaims Miss Nan, her blue eyes
threatening to fill with tears. "I _do_ think they might let him off the day we
get here." "Unquestionably," answers Uncle Jack, with great gravity, as he
assists the ladies into the yellow omnibus. "You duly notified the
superintendent of your impending arrival, I suppose?" Mrs. McKay smiles quietly.
Hers is a sweet and gentle face, lined with many a trace of care and anxiety.
Her brother's whimsical ways are old acquaintances, and she knows how to treat
them; but Nan is young, impulsive, and easily teased. She flares up instantly.
"Of course we _didn't_, Uncle Jack; how utterly absurd it would sound! But Willy
knew we were coming, and _he_ must have told him when he asked for his permit,
and it does seem too hard that he was refused." "Heartless in the last degree,"
says Uncle Jack, sympathetically, but with the same suggestive drawl. "Yonder go
the father and sister of the young gentleman whom you announced your intention
to castigate because he didn't agree that Billy was being abused, Nan. You will
have a chance this very evening, won't you? He's officer of the day, according
to Billy's note, and can't escape. You'll have wound up the whole family by
tattoo. Quite a good day's work. Billy's opposers will do well to take warning
and keep out of the way hereafter," he continues, teasingly. "Oh--ah--
_corporal_!" he calls, "who was the young officer who just drove off in the
carriage with the lady and gentleman?" "That was Lieutenant Lee, sir." Uncle
Jack turns and contemplates his niece with an expression of the liveliest
admiration. "'Pon my word, Miss Nan, you are a most comprehensive young person.
You've indeed let no guilty man escape." CHAPTER II. A CADET SCAPEGRACE. The
evening that opened so clear and sunshiny has clouded rapidly over. Even as the
four gray companies come "trotting" in from parade, and, with the ease of long
habit, quickly forming line in the barrack area, some heavy rain-drops begin to
fall; the drum-major has hurried his band away; the crowd of spectators,
unusually large for so early in the season, scatters for shelter; umbrellas pop
up here and there under the beautiful trees along the western roadway; the
adjutant rushes through "delinquency list" in a style distinguishable only to
his stolid, silent audience standing immovably before him,--a long perspective
of gray uniforms and glistening white belts. The fateful book is closed with a
snap, and the echoing walls ring to the quick commands of the first sergeants,
at which the bayonets are struck from the rifle-barrels, and the long line
bursts into a living torrent sweeping into the hall-ways to escape the coming
shower. When the battalion reappears, a few moments later, every man is in his
overcoat, and here and there little knots of upper classmen gather, and there is
eager and excited talk. A soldierly, dark-eyed young fellow, with the red sash
of the officer of the day over his shoulder, comes briskly out of the hall of
the fourth division. The chevrons of a cadet captain are glistening on his arm,
and he alone has not donned the gray overcoat, although he has discarded the
plumed shako in deference to the coming storm; yet he hardly seems to notice the
downpour of the rain; his face is grave and his lips set and compressed as he
rapidly makes his way through the groups awaiting the signal to "fall in" for
supper. "Stanley! O Stanley!" is the hail from a knot of classmates, and he
halts and looks about as two or three of the party hasten after him. "What does
Billy say about it?" is the eager inquiry. "Nothing--new." "Well, that report as
good as finds him on demerit, doesn't it?" "The next thing to it; though he has
been as close to the brink before." "But--great Scott! He has two weeks yet to
run; and Billy McKay can no more live two weeks without demerit than Patsy,
here, without 'spooning.'" Mr. Stanley's eyes look tired as he glances up from
under the visor of his forage cap. He is not as tall by half a head as the young
soldiers by whom he is surrounded. "We were talking of his chances at dinner-
time," he says, gravely. "Billy never mentioned this break of his yesterday, and
was surprised to hear the report read out to-night. I believe he had forgotten
the whole thing." "Who 'skinned' him?--Lee? He was there." "I don't know; McKay
says so, but there were several officers over there at the time. It is a report
he cannot get off, and it comes at a most unlucky moment." With this remark Mr.
Stanley turns away and goes striding through the crowded area towards the guard-
house. Another moment and there is sudden drum-beat; the gray overcoats leap
into ranks; the subject of the recent discussion--a jaunty young fellow with
laughing blue eyes--comes tearing out of the fourth division just in time to
avoid a "late," and the clamor of tenscore voices gives place to silence broken
only by the rapid calling of the rolls and the prompt "here"--"here," in
response. If ever there was a pet in the corps of cadets he lived in the person
of Billy McKay. Bright as one of his own buttons; jovial, generous, impulsive;
he had only one enemy in the battalion,--and that one, as he had been frequently
told, was himself. This, however, was a matter which he could not at all be
induced to believe. Of the Academic Board in general, of his instructors in
large measure, but of the four or five ill-starred soldiers known as "tactical
officers" in particular, Mr. McKay entertained very decided and most
unflattering opinions. He had won his cadetship through rigid competitive
examination against all comers; he was a natural mathematician of whom a
professor had said that he "_could_ stand in the fives and _wouldn't_ stand in
the forties;" years of his boyhood spent in France had made him master of the
colloquial forms of the court language of Europe, yet a dozen classmates who had
never seen a French verb before their admission stood above him at the end of
the first term. He had gone to the first section like a rocket and settled to
the bottom of it like a stick. No subject in the course was really hard to him,
his natural aptitude enabling him to triumph over the toughest problems. Yet he
hated work, and would often face about with an empty black-board and take a zero
and a report for neglect of studies that half an hour's application would have
rendered impossible. Classmates who saw impending danger would frequently make
stolen visits to his room towards the close of the term and profess to be
baffled by the lesson for the morrow, and Billy would promptly knock the ashes
out of the pipe he was smoking contrary to regulations and lay aside the guitar
on which he had been softly strumming--also contrary to regulations; would pick
up the neglected calculus or mechanics; get interested in the work of
explanation, and end by having learned the lesson in spite of himself. This was
too good a joke to be kept a secret, and by the time the last year came Billy
had found it all out and refused to be longer hoodwinked. There was never the
faintest danger of his being found deficient in studies, but there was ever the
glaring prospect of his being discharged "on demerit." Mr. McKay and the
regulations of the United States Military Academy had been at loggerheads from
the start. And yet, frank, jolly, and generous as he was in all intercourse with
his comrades, there was never a time when this young gentleman could be brought
to see that in such matters he was the arbiter of his own destiny. Like the
Irishman whose first announcement on setting foot on American soil was that he
was "agin the government," Billy McKay believed that regulations were made only
to oppress; that the men who drafted such a code were idiots, and that those
whose duty it became to enforce it were simply spies and tyrants, resistance to
whom was innate virtue. He was forever ignoring or violating some written or
unwritten law of the Academy; was frequently being caught in the act, and was
invariably ready to attribute the resultant report to ill luck which pursued no
one else, or to a deliberate persecution which followed him forever. Every six
months he had been on the verge of dismissal, and now, a fortnight from the
final examination, with a margin of only six demerit to run on, Mr. Billy McKay
had just been read out in the daily list of culprits or victims as "Shouting
from window of barracks to cadets in area during study hours,--three forty-five
and four P.M."

There was absolutely no excuse for this performance. The regulations enjoined
silence and order in barracks during "call to quarters." It had been raining a
little, and he was in hopes there would be no battalion drill, in which event he
would venture on throwing off his uniform and spreading himself out on his bed
with a pipe and a novel,--two things he dearly loved. Ten minutes would have
decided the question legitimately for him, but, being of impatient temperament,
he could not wait, and, catching sight of the adjutant and the senior captain
coming from the guard-house, Mr. McKay sung out in tones familiar to every man
within ear-shot,--

"Hi, Jim! Is it battalion drill?" The adjutant glanced quickly up,--a warning
glance as he could have seen,--merely shook his head, and went rapidly on, while
his comrade, the cadet first captain, clinched his fist at the window and
growled between his set teeth, "Be quiet, you idiot!" But poor Billy persisted.
Louder yet he called,--

"Well--say--Jimmy! Come up here after four o'clock. I'll be in confinement, and
can't come out. Want to see you." And the windows over at the office of the
commandant being wide open, and that official being seated there in consultation
with three or four of his assistants, and as Mr. McKay's voice was as well known
to them as to the corps, there was no alternative. The colonel himself
"confounded" the young scamp for his recklessness, and directed a report to be
entered against him. And now, as Mr. Stanley is betaking himself to his post at
the guard-house, his heart is heavy within him because of this new load on his
comrade's shoulders. "How on earth could you have been so careless, Billy?" he
had asked him as McKay, fuming and indignant, was throwing off his accoutrements
in his room on the second floor. "How'd I know anybody was over there?" was the
boyish reply. "It's just a skin on suspicion anyhow. Lee couldn't have seen me,
nor could anybody else. I stood way back by the clothes-press." "There's no
suspicion about it, Billy. There isn't a man that walks the area that doesn't
know your voice as well as he does Jim Pennock's. Confound it! You'll get over
the limit yet, man, and break your--your mother's heart." "Oh, come now, Stan!
You've been nagging me ever since last camp. Why'n thunder can't you see I'm
doing my best? Other men don't row me as you do, or stand up for the 'tacks.' I
tell you that fellow Lee never loses a chance of skinning me: he _takes_
chances, by gad, and I'll make his eyes pop out of his head when he reads what
I've got to say about it." "You're too hot for reason now, McKay," said Stanley,
sadly. "Step out or you'll get a late for supper. I'll see you after awhile. I
gave that note to the orderly, by the way, and he said he'd take it down to the
dock himself." "Mother and Nan will probably come to the guard-house right after
supper. Look out for them for me, will you, Stan, until old Snipes gets there
and sends for me?" And as Mr. Stanley shut the door instantly and went
clattering down the iron stairs, Mr. McKay caught no sign on his face of the
sudden flutter beneath that snugly-buttoned coat. It was noticed by more than
one of the little coterie at his own table that the officer of the day hurried
through his supper and left the mess-hall long before the command for the first
company to rise. It was a matter well known to every member of the graduating
class that, almost from the day of her arrival during the encampment of the
previous summer, Phil Stanley had been a devoted admirer of Miss Nannie McKay.
It was not at all to be wondered at. Without being what is called an ideal
beauty, there was a fascination about this winsome little maid which few could
resist. She had all her brother's impulsiveness, all his enthusiasm, and, it may
be safely asserted, all his abiding faith in the sacred and unimpeachable
character of cadet friendships. If she possessed a little streak of romance that
was not discernible in him, she managed to keep it well in the background; and
though she had her favorites in the corps, she was so frank and cordial and
joyous in her manner to all that it was impossible to say which one, if any, she
regarded in the light of a lover. Whatever comfort her gentle mother may have
derived from this state of affairs, it was "hard lines on Stanley," as his
classmates put it, for there could be little doubt that the captain of the color
company was a sorely-smitten man. He was not what is commonly called a "popular
man" in the corps. The son of a cavalry officer, reared on the wide frontier and
educated only imperfectly, he had not been able to enter the Academy until
nearly twenty years of age, and nothing but indomitable will and diligence had
carried him through the difficulties of the first half of the course. It was not
until the middle of the third year that the chevrons of a sergeant were awarded
him, and even then the battalion was taken by surprise. There was no surprise a
few months later, however, when he was promoted over a score of classmates and
made captain of his company. It was an open secret that the commandant had said
that if he had it all to do over again, Mr. Stanley would be made "first
captain,"--a rumor that big John Burton, the actual incumbent of that office,
did not at all fancy. Stanley was "square" and impartial. His company was in
admirable discipline, though many of his classmates growled and wished he were
not "so confoundedly military." The second classmen, always the most critical
judges of the qualifications of their seniors, conceded that he was more
soldierly than any man of his year, but were unanimous in the opinion that he
should show more deference to men of their standing in the corps. The
"yearlings" swore by him in any discussion as to the relative merits of the four
captains; but with equal energy swore at him when contemplating that fateful
volume known as "the skin book." The fourth classmen--the "plebes"--simply
worshipped the ground he trod on, and as between General Sherman and Philip
Stanley, it is safe to say these youngsters would have determined on the latter
as the more suitable candidate for the office of general-in-chief. Of course
they admired the adjutant,--the plebes always do that,--and not infrequently to
the exclusion of the other cadet officers; but there was something grand, to
them, about this dark-eyed, dark-faced, dignified captain who never stooped to
trifle with them; was always so precise and courteous, and yet so immeasurably
distant. They were ten times more afraid of him than they had been of Lieutenant
Rolfe, who was their "tack" during camp, or of the great, handsome, kindly-
voiced dragoon who succeeded him, Lieutenant Lee, of the --th Cavalry. They
approved of this latter gentleman because he belonged to the regiment of which
Mr. Stanley's father was lieutenant-colonel, and to which it was understood Mr.
Stanley was to be assigned on his graduation. What they could not at all
understand was that, once graduated, Mr. Stanley could step down from his high
position in the battalion of cadets and become a mere file-closer. Yes. Stanley
was too strict and soldierly to command that decidedly ephemeral tribute known
as "popularity," but no man in the corps of cadets was more thoroughly
respected. If there were flaws in the armor of his personal character they were
not such as to be vigorously prodded by his comrades. He had firm friends,--
devoted friends, who grew to honor and trust him more with every year; but,
strong though they knew him to be, he had found his conqueror. There was a story
in the first class that in Stanley's old leather writing-case was a sort of
secret compartment, and in this compartment was treasured "a knot of ribbon
blue" that had been worn last summer close under the dimpled white chin of
pretty Nannie McKay. And now on this moist May evening as he hastens back to
barracks, Mr. Stanley spies a little group standing in front of the guard-house.
Lieutenant Lee is there,--in his uniform now,--and with him are the tall girl in
the simple travelling-dress, and the trim, wiry, gray-moustached soldier whom we
saw on the boat. The rain is falling steadily, which accounts for and possibly
excuses Mr. Lee's retention of the young lady's arm in his as he holds the
umbrella over both; but the colonel no sooner catches sight of the officer of
the day than his own umbrella is cast aside, and with light, eager, buoyant
steps, father and son hasten to meet each other. In an instant their hands are
clasped,--both hands,--and through moistening eyes the veteran of years of
service and the boy in whom his hopes are centred gaze into each other's faces.
"Phil,--my son!" "Father!" No other words. It is the first meeting in two long
years. The area is deserted save by the smiling pair watching from under the
dripping umbrella with eyes nearly as moist as the skies. There is no one to
comment or to scoff. In the father's heart, mingling with the deep joy at this
reunion with his son, there wells up sudden, irrepressible sorrow. "Ah, God!" he
thinks. "Could his mother but have lived to see him now!" Perhaps Philip reads
it all in the strong yet tremulous clasp of those sinewy brown hands, but for
the moment neither speaks again. There are some joys so deep, some heart
longings so overpowering, that many a man is forced to silence, or to a levity
of manner which is utterly repugnant to him, in the effort to conceal from the
world the tumult of emotion that so nearly makes him weep. Who that has read
that inimitable page will ever forget the meeting of that genial sire and
gallant son in the grimy old railway car filled with the wounded from Antietam,
in Doctor Holmes's "My Search for the Captain?" When Phil Stanley, still
clinging to his father's hand, turns to greet his sister and her handsome
escort, he is suddenly aware of another group that has entered the area. Two
ladies, marshalled by his classmate, Mr. Pennock, are almost at his side, and
one of them is the blue-eyed girl he loves. CHAPTER III. "AMANTIUM IRAE." Lovely
as is West Point in May, it is hardly the best time for a visit there if one's
object be to see the cadets. From early morn until late at night every hour is
taken up with duties, academic or military. Mothers, sisters, and sweethearts,
whose eyes so eagerly follow the evolutions of the gray ranks, can only hope for
a few words between drill and dress parade, or else in the shortest half-hour in
all the world,--that which intervenes 'twixt supper and evening "call to
quarters." That Miss Nannie McKay should make frequent and unfavorable comment
on this state of affairs goes without saying; yet, had she been enabled to see
her beloved brother but once a month and her cadet friends at intervals almost
as rare, that incomprehensible young damsel would have preferred the Point to
any other place in the world. It was now ten days since her arrival, and she had
had perhaps three chats with Willy, who, luckily for him, though he could not
realize it, was spending most of his time "confined to quarters," and
consequently out of much of the temptation he would otherwise have been in. Mrs.
McKay had been able to see very little more of the young man, but she had the
prayerful consolation that if he could only be kept out of mischief a few days
longer he would then be through with it all, out of danger of dismissal,
actually graduated, and once more her own boy to monopolize as she chose. It
takes most mothers a long, long time to become reconciled to the complete
usurpation of all their former rights by this new parent whom their boys are
bound to serve,--this anything but _Alma_ Mater,--the war school of the nation.
As for Miss Nan, though she made it a point to declaim vigorously at the fates
that prevented her seeing more of her brother, it was wonderful how well she
looked and in what blithe spirits she spent her days. Regularly as the sun came
around, before guard-mount in the morning and right after supper in the evening,
she was sure to be on the south piazza of the old hotel, and when presently the
cadet uniforms began to appear at the hedge, she, and others, would go tripping
lightly down the path to meet the wearers, and then would follow the half-hour's
walk and chat in which she found such infinite delight. So, too, could Mr.
Stanley, had he been able to appear as her escort on all occasions; but despite
his strong personal inclination and effort, this was by no means the case. The
little lady was singularly impartial in the distribution of her time, and only
by being first applicant had he secured to himself the one long afternoon that
had yet been vouchsafed them,--the cadet half-holiday of Saturday. But if Miss
Nan found time hanging heavily on her hands at other hours of the day, there was
one young lady at the hotel who did not,--a young lady whom, by this time, she
regarded with constantly deepening interest,--Miriam Stanley. Other girls,
younger girls, who had found their ideals in the cadet gray, were compelled to
spend hours of the twenty-four in waiting for the too brief _half_-hour in which
it was possible to meet them; but Miss Stanley was very differently situated. It
was her first visit to the Point. She met, and was glad to meet, all Philip's
friends and comrades; but it was plainly to be seen, said all the girls at
Craney's, that between her and the tall cavalry officer whom they best knew
through cadet descriptions, there existed what they termed an "understanding,"
if not an engagement. Every day, when not prevented by duties, Mr. Lee would
come stalking up from barracks, and presently away they would stroll together,--
a singularly handsome pair, as every one admitted. One morning soon after the
Stanleys' arrival he appeared in saddle on his stylish bay, accompanied by an
orderly leading another horse, side-saddled; and then, as by common impulse, all
the girls promenading the piazzas, as was their wont, with arms entwining each
other's waists, came flocking about the south steps. When Miss Stanley appeared
in her riding-habit and was quickly swung up into saddle by her cavalier, and
then, with a bright nod and smile for the entire group, she gathered the reins
in her practised hand and rode briskly away, the sentiments of the fair
spectators were best expressed, perhaps, in the remark of Miss McKay,--

"What a shame it is that the cadets can't ride! I mean can't ride--_that_ way,"
she explained, with suggestive nod of her curly head towards the pair just
trotting out upon the road around the Plain. "They ride--lots of them--better
than most of the officers." "Mr. Stanley for instance," suggests a mischievous
little minx with hazel eyes and laughter-loving mouth. "Yes, Mr. Stanley, or Mr.
Pennock, or Mr. Burton, or a dozen others I could name, not excepting my
brother," answers Miss Nan, stoutly, although those readily flushing cheeks of
hers promptly throw out their signals of perturbation. "Fancy Mr. Lee vaulting
over his horse at the gallop as they do." "And yet Mr. Lee has taught them so
much more than other instructors. Several cadets have told me so. He always
does, first, everything he requires them to do; so he must be able to make that
vault." "Will doesn't say so by any means," retorts Nannie, with something very
like a pout; and as Will is a prime favorite with the entire party and the
centre of a wide circle of interest, sympathy, and anxiety in those girlish
hearts, their loyalty is proof against opinions that may not coincide with his.
"Miss Mischief" reads temporary defeat in the circle of bright faces and is
stung to new effort,--

"Well! there are cadets whose opinions you value quite as much as you do your
brother's, Nannie, and they have told me." "Who?" challenges Miss Nan, yet with
averted face. Thrice of late she has disagreed with Mr. Stanley about Willy's
troubles; has said things to him which she wishes she had left unsaid; and for
two days now he has not sought her side as heretofore, though she knows he has
been at the hotel to see his sister, and a little bird has told her he had a
long talk with this same hazel-eyed girl. She wants to know more about it,--yet
does not want to ask. "Phil Stanley, for one," is the not unexpected answer.
Somebody who appears to know all about it has written that when a girl is
beginning to feel deep interest in a man she will say things decidedly
detrimental to his character solely for the purpose of having them denied and
for the pleasure of hearing him defended. Is it this that prompts Miss McKay to
retort?--

"Mr. Stanley cares too little what his classmates think, and too much of what
Mr. Lee may say or do." "Mr. Stanley isn't the only one who thinks a deal of
Lieutenant Lee," is the spirited answer. "Mr. Burton says he is the most popular
tactical officer here, and many a cadet--good friends of your brother's, Nannie
--has said the same thing. You don't like him because Will doesn't." "I wouldn't
like or respect any officer who reports cadets on suspicion," is the stout
reply. "If he did that to any one else I would despise it as much as I do
because Willy is the victim." The discussion is waxing hot. "Miss Mischief's"
blood is up. She likes Phil Stanley; she likes Mr. Lee; she has hosts of friends
in the corps, and she is just as loyal and quite as pronounced in her views as
her little adversary. They are fond of each other, too, and were great chums all
through the previous summer; but there is danger of a quarrel to-day. "I don't
think you are just in that matter at all, Nannie. I have heard cadets say that
if they had been in Mr. Lee's place or on officer-of-the-day duty they would
have had to give Will that report you take so much to heart. Everybody knows his
voice. Half the corps heard him call out to Mr. Pennock." "I don't believe a
single cadet who's a friend of Will's would say such a thing," bursts in Miss
Nan, her eyes blazing. "He is a friend, and a warm friend, too." "You said there
were several, Kitty, and I don't believe it possible." "Well. There were two or
three. If you don't believe it, you can ask Mr. Stanley. _He_ said it, and the
others agreed." Fancy the mood in which she meets him this particular evening,
when his card was brought to her door. Twice has "Miss Mischief" essayed to
enter the room and "make up." Conscience has been telling her savagely that in
the impulse and sting of the moment she has given an unfair coloring to the
whole matter. Mr. Stanley had volunteered no such remark as that she so
vehemently quoted. Asked point blank whether he considered as given "on
suspicion" the report which Mrs. McKay and Nannie so resented, he replied that
he did not; and, when further pressed, he said that Will alone was blamable in
the matter: Mr. Lee had no alternative, if it was Mr. Lee who gave the report,
and any other officer would have been compelled to do the same. All this "Miss
Mischief" would gladly have explained to Nannie could she have gained admission,
but the latter "had a splitting headache," and begged to be excused. It has been
such a lovely afternoon. The halls were filled with cadets "on permit," when she
came out from the dining-room, but nothing but ill-luck seemed to attend her.
The young gentleman who had invited her to walk to Fort Putnam, most provokingly
twisted an ankle at cavalry drill that very morning, and was sent to hospital.
_Now_, if Mr. Stanley were all devotion, he would promptly tender his services
as substitute. Then she could take him to task and punish him for his disloyalty
to Will. But Mr. Stanley was not to be seen: "Gone off with another girl," was
the announcement made to her by Mr. Werrick, a youth who dearly loved a joke,
and who saw no need of explaining that the other girl was his own sister. Sorely
disappointed, yet hardly knowing why, she accepted her mother's invitation to go
with her to the barracks where Will was promenading the area on what Mr. Werrick
called "one of his perennial punishment tours." She went, of course; but the
distant sight of poor Will, duly equipped as a sentry, dismally tramping up and
down the asphalt, added fuel to the inward fire that consumed her. The mother's
heart, too, yearned over her boy,--a victim to cruel regulations and crueler
task-masters. "What was the use of the government's enticing young men away from
their comfortable homes," Mrs. McKay had once indignantly written, "unless it
could make them happy?" It was a question the "tactical department" could not
answer, but it thought volumes. But now evening had come, and with it Mr.
Stanley's card. Nan's heart gave a bound, but she went down-stairs with due
deliberation. She had his card in her hand as she reached the hall, and was
twisting it in her fingers. Yes. There he stood on the north piazza, Pennock
with him, and one or two others of the graduating class. They were chatting
laughingly with Miss Stanley, "Miss Mischief," a bevy of girls, and a matron or
two, but she knew well his eyes would be on watch for her. They were. He saw her
instantly; bowed, smiled, but, to her surprise, continued his conversation with
a lady seated near the door. What could it mean? Irresolute she stood there a
moment, waiting for him to come forward; but though she saw that twice his eyes
sought hers, he was still bending courteously and listening to the voluble words
of the somewhat elderly dame who claimed his attention. Nan began to rebel
against that woman from the bottom of her heart. What was she to do? Here was
his card. In response she had come down to receive him. She meant to be very
cool from the first moment; to provoke him to inquiry as to the cause of such
unusual conduct, and then to upbraid him for his disloyalty to her brother. She
certainly meant that he should feel the weight of her displeasure; but then--
then--after he had been made to suffer, if he was properly contrite, and said
so, and looked it, and begged to be forgiven, why then, perhaps she might be
brought to condone it in a measure and be good friends again. It was clearly his
duty, however, to come and greet her, not hers to go to the laughing group. The
old lady was the only one among them whom she did not know,--a new arrival. Just
then Miss Stanley looked round, saw her, and signalled smilingly to her to come
and join them. Slowly she walked towards the little party, still twirling the
card in her taper fingers. "Looking for anybody, Nan?" blithely hails "Miss
Mischief." "Who is it? I see you have his card." For once Nannie's voice fails
her, and she knows not what to say. Before she can frame an answer there is a
rustle of skirts and a light foot-fall behind her, and she hears the voice of a
girl whom she never has liked one bit. "Oh! You're here, are you, Mr. Stanley!
Why, I've been waiting at least a quarter of an hour. Did you send up your
card?" "I did; full ten minutes ago. Was it not brought to your room?" "No,
indeed! I've been sitting there writing, and only came down because I had
promised Mr. Fearn that he should have ten minutes, and it is nearly his time
now. Where do you suppose they could have sent it?" Poor little Nan! It has been
a hard day for her, but this is just too much. She turns quickly, and, hardly
knowing whither she goes, dodges past the party of cadets and girls now blocking
the stairway and preventing flight to her room, hurries out the south door and
around to the west piazza, and there, leaning against a pillar, is striving to
hide her blazing cheeks,--all in less than a minute. Stanley sees through the
entire situation with the quick intuition of a lover. She has not treated him
kindly of late. She has been capricious and unjust on several occasions, but
there is no time to think of that now. She is in distress, and that is more than
enough for him. "Here comes Mr. Fearn himself to claim his walk, so I will go
and find out about the card," he says, and blesses that little rat of a bell-boy
as he hastens away. Out on the piazza he finds her alone, yet with half a dozen
people hovering nigh. The hush of twilight is over the beautiful old Point. The
moist breath of the coming night, cool and sweet, floats down upon them from the
deep gorges on the rugged flank of Cro' Nest, and rises from the thickly lacing
branches of the cedars on the river-bank below. A flawless mirror in its grand
and reflected framework of cliff and crag and beetling precipice, the Hudson
stretches away northward unruffled by the faintest cat's-paw of a breeze. Far
beyond the huge black battlements of Storm King and the purpled scaur of
Breakneck the night lights of the distant city are twinkling through the
gathering darkness, and tiny dots of silvery flame down in the cool depths
beneath them reflect the faint glimmer from the cloudless heaven where--

"The sentinel stars set their watch in the sky." The hush of the sacred hour has
fallen on every lip save those of the merry party in the hall, where laugh and
chatter and flaring gas-light bid defiance to influences such as hold their sway
over souls brought face to face with Nature in this, her loveliest haunt on
earth. Phil Stanley's heart is throbbing as he steps quickly to her side. Well,
indeed, she knows his foot-fall; knows he is coming; almost knows _why_ he
comes. She is burning with a sense of humiliation, wounded pride, maidenly
wrath, and displeasure. All day long everything has gone agley. Could she but
flee to her room and hide her flaming cheeks and cry her heart out, it would be
relief inexpressible, but her retreat is cut off. She cannot escape. She cannot
face those keen-eyed watchers in the hall-ways. Oh! it is almost maddening that
she should have been so--so fooled! Every one must know she came down to meet
Phil Stanley when his card was meant for another girl,--that girl of all others!
All aflame with indignation as she is, she yet means to freeze him if she can
only control herself. "Miss Nannie," he murmurs, quick and low, "I see that a
blunder has been made, but I don't believe the others saw it. Give me just a few
minutes. Come down the walk with me. I cannot talk with you here--now, and there
is so much I want to say." He bends over her pleadingly, but her eyes are fixed
far away up the dark wooded valley beyond the white shafts of the cemetery,
gleaming in the first beams of the rising moon. She makes no reply for a moment.
She does not withdraw them when finally she answers, impressively,--

"Thank you, Mr. Stanley, but I must be excused from interfering with your
engagements." "There is no engagement now," he promptly replies; "and I greatly
want to speak with you. Have you been quite kind to me of late? Have I not a
right to know what has brought about the change?" "You do not seem to have
sought opportunity to inquire,"--very cool and dignified now. "Pardon me. Three
times this week I have asked for a walk, and you have had previous engagements."
She has torn to bits and thrown away the card that was in her hand. Now she is
tugging at the bunch of bell buttons, each graven with the monogram of some
cadet friend, that hangs as usual by its tiny golden chain. She wants to say
that he has found speedy consolation in the society of "that other girl" of whom
Mr. Werrick spoke, but not for the world would she seem jealous. "You could have
seen me this afternoon, had there been any matters you wished explained," she
says. "I presume you were more agreeably occupied." "I find no delight in formal
visits," he answers, quietly; "but my sister wished to return calls and asked me
to show her about the post." Then it was his sister. Not "that other girl!"
Still she must not let him see it makes her glad. She needs a pretext for her
wrath. She must make him feel it in some way. This is not at all in accordance
with the mental private rehearsals she has been having. There is still that
direful matter of Will's report for "shouting from window of barracks," and
"Miss Mischief's" equally direful report of Mr. Stanley's remarks thereon. "I
thought you were a loyal friend of Willy's," she says, turning suddenly upon
him. "I was--and am," he answers simply. "And yet I'm told you said it was all
his own fault, and that you yourself would have given him the report that so
nearly 'found him on demerit.' A report on suspicion, too," she adds, with scorn
in her tone. Mr. Stanley is silent a moment. "You have heard a very unfair
account of my words," he says at last. "I have volunteered no opinions on the
subject. In answer to direct question I have said that it was not justifiable to
call that a report on suspicion." "But you said you would have given it
yourself." "I said that, as officer of the day, I would have been compelled to
do so. I could not have signed my certificate otherwise." She turns away in
speechless indignation. What makes it all well-nigh intolerable is that he is by
no means on the defensive. He is patient, gentle, but decidedly superior. Not at
all what she wanted. Not at all eager to explain, argue, or implore. Not at all
the tearful penitent she has pictured in her plans. She must bring him to a
realizing sense of the enormity of his conduct. Disloyalty to Will is treason to
her. "And yet--you say you have kept, and that you value, that knot of blue
ribbon that I gave you--or that you took--last summer. I did not suppose that
you would so soon prove to be--no friend to Willy, or----"

"Or what, Miss Nannie?" he asks. His face is growing white, but he controls the
tremor in his voice. She does not see. Her eyes are downcast and her face
averted now, but she goes on desperately. "Well, never mind _that_ now; but it
seems to me that such friendship is--simply worthless." She has taken the plunge
and said her say, but the last words are spoken with sinking inflection,
followed instantly by a sinking heart. He makes no answer whatever. She dares
not look up into his face to see the effect of her stab. He stands there silent
only an instant; then raises his cap, turns, and leaves her. Sunday comes and
goes without a sight of him except in the line of officers at parade. That night
she goes early to her room, and on the bureau finds a little box securely tied,
sealed, and addressed to her in his well-known hand. It contains a note and some
soft object carefully wrapped in tissue-paper. The note is brief enough:

"It is not easy to part with this, for it is all I have that was yours to give,
but even this must be returned to you after what you said last night. "Miss
Nannie, you may some time think more highly of my friendship for your brother
than you do now, and then, perhaps, will realize that you were very unjust.
Should that time come I shall be glad to have this again." It was hardly
necessary to open the little packet as she did. She knew well enough it could
contain only that

"Knot of ribbon blue." CHAPTER IV. "THE WOMAN TEMPTED ME." June is here. The
examinations are in full blast. The Point is thronged with visitors and every
hostelrie in the neighborhood has opened wide its doors to accommodate the
swarms of people interested in the graduating exercises and eager for the
graduating ball. Pretty girls there are in force, and at Craney's they are
living three and four in a room; the joy of being really there on the Point,
near the cadets, aroused by the morning gun and shrill piping of the reveille,
saluted hourly by the notes of the bugle, enabled to see the gray uniforms half
a dozen times a day and to actually speak or walk with the wearers half an hour
out of twenty-four whole ones, being apparent compensation for any crowding or
discomfort. Indeed, crowded as they are, the girls at Craney's are objects of
boundless envy to those whom the Fates have consigned to the resorts down around
the picturesque but distant "Falls." There is a little coterie at "Hawkshurst"
that is fiercely jealous of the sisterhood in the favored nook at the north edge
of the Plain, and one of their number, who is believed to have completely
subjugated that universal favorite, Cadet McKay, has been heard to say that she
thought it an outrage that they had to come home so early in the evening and
mope away the time without a single cadet, when up there at Craney's the halls
and piazzas were full of gray-coats and bell buttons every night until tattoo. A
very brilliant and pretty girl she is, too, and neither Mrs. McKay nor Nannie
can wonder at it that Will's few leisure moments are monopolized. "You are going
to have me all to yourself next week, little mother," he laughingly explains;
"and goodness knows when I'm going to see Miss Waring again." And though neither
mother nor sister is at all satisfied with the state of affairs, both are too
unselfish to interpose. How many an hour have mothers and, sometimes, sisters
waited in loneliness at the old hotel for boys whom some other fellow's sister
was holding in silken fetters somewhere down in shady "Flirtation!" It was with
relief inexpressible that Mrs. McKay and Uncle Jack had hailed the coming of the
1st of June. With a margin of only two demerits Will had safely weathered the
reefs and was practically safe,--safe at last. He had passed brilliantly in
engineering; had been saved by his prompt and ready answers the consequences of
a "fess" with clean black-board in ordnance and gunnery; had won a ringing,
though involuntary, round of applause from the crowded galleries of the riding-
hall by daring horsemanship, and he was now within seven days of the prized
diploma and his commission. "For heaven's sake, Billy," pleaded big Burton, the
first captain, "don't do any thing to ruin your chances now! I've just been
talking with your mother and Miss Nannie, and I declare I never saw that little
sister of yours looking so white and worried." McKay laughs, yet his laugh is
not light-hearted. He wonders if Burton has the faintest intuition that at this
moment he is planning an escapade that means nothing short of dismissal if
detected. Down in the bottom of his soul he knows he is a fool to have made the
rash and boastful pledge to which he now stands committed. Yet he has never
"backed out" before, and now--he would dare a dozen dismissals rather than that
she should have a chance to say, "I knew you would not come." That very
afternoon, just after the ride in the hall before the Board of Visitors, Miss
Waring had been pathetically lamenting that with another week they were to part,
and that she had seen next to nothing of him since her arrival. "If you only
_could_ get down to Hawkshurst!" she cried. "I'm sure when my cousin Frank was
in the corps he used to 'run it' down to Cozzens's to see Cousin Kate,--and that
was what made her Cousin Kate to me," she adds, with sudden dropping of the
eyelids that is wondrously effective. "Easily done!" recklessly answers McKay,
whose boyish heart is set to hammer-like beating by the closing sentence. "I
didn't know you sat up so late there, or I would have come before. Of course I
_have_ to be here at 'taps.' No one can escape that." "Oh,--but really, Mr.
McKay, I did not mean it! I would not have you run such a risk for worlds! I
meant--some other way." And so she protests, although her eyes dance with
excitement and delight. What a feather this in her cap of coquetry! What a
triumph over the other girls,--especially that hateful set at Craney's! What a
delicious confidence to impart to all the little coterie at Hawkshurst! How they
must envy her the romance, the danger, the daring, the devotion of such an
adventure--for her sake! Of late years such tales had been rare. Girls worth the
winning simply would not permit so rash a project, and their example carried
weight. But here at "Hawkshurst" was a lively young brood, chaperoned by a
matron as wild as her charges and but little older, and eager one and all for
any glory or distinction that could pique the pride or stir the envy of "that
Craney set." It was too much for a girl of Sallie Waring's type. Her eyes have a
dangerous gleam, her cheeks a witching glow; she clings tighter to his arm as
she looks up in his face. "And yet--wouldn't it be lovely?--To think of seeing
you there!--are you sure there'd be no danger?" "Be on the north piazza about
quarter of eleven," is the prompt reply. "I'll wear a dark suit, eye-glass,
brown moustache, etc. Call me Mr. Freeman while strangers are around. There goes
the parade drum. _Au revoir!_" and he darts away. Cadet Captain Stanley,
inspecting his company a few moments later, stops in front and gravely rebukes
him,--

"You are not properly shaved, McKay." "I shaved this morning," is the somewhat
sullen reply, while an angry flush shoots up towards the blue eyes. "No razor
has touched your upper lip, however, and I expect the class to observe
regulations in this company, demerit or no demerit," is the firm, quiet answer,
and the young captain passes on to the next man. McKay grits his teeth. "Only a
week more of it, thank God!" he mutters, when sure that Stanley is beyond ear-
shot. Three hours more and "taps" is sounded. All along the brilliant _facade_
of barracks there is sudden and simultaneous "dousing of the glim" and a rush of
the cadets to their narrow nests. There is a minute of banging doors and
hurrying footsteps, and gruff queries of "All in?" as the cadet officers flit
from room to room in each division to see that lights are out and every man in
bed. Then forth they come from every hall-way; tripping lightly down the stone
steps and converging on the guard-house, where stand at the door-way the dark
forms of the officer in charge and the cadet officer of the day. Each in turn
halts, salutes, and makes his precise report; and when the last subdivision is
reported, the executive officer is assured that the battalion of cadets is
present in barracks, and at the moment of inspection at least, in bed.
Presumably, they remain so. Two minutes after inspection, however, Mr. McKay is
out of bed again and fumbling about in his alcove. His room-mate sleepily
inquires from beyond the partition what he wants in the dark, but is too long
accustomed to his vagaries to expect definite information. When Mr. McKay slips
softly out into the hall, after careful _reconnaissance_ of the guard-house
windows, his chum is soundly asleep and dreaming of no worse freak on Billy's
part than a raid around barracks. It is so near graduation that the rules are
relaxed, and in every first classman's room the tailor's handiwork is hanging
among the gray uniforms. It is a dark suit of this civilian dress that Billy
dons as he emerges from the blankets. A natty Derby is perched upon his curly
pate, and a _monocle_ hangs by its string. But he cannot light his gas and
arrange the soft brown moustache with which he proposes to decorate his upper
lip. He must run into Stanley's,--the "tower" room, at the north end of his
hall. Phil looks up from the copy of "Military Law" which he is diligently
studying. As "inspector of subdivision," his light is burned until eleven. "You
_do_ make an uncommonly swell young cit, Billy," he says, pleasantly. "Doesn't
he, Mack?" he continues, appealing to his room-mate, who, lying flat on his back
with his head towards the light and a pair of muscular legs in white trousers
displayed on top of a pile of blankets, is striving to make out the vacancies in
a recent Army Register. "Mack" rolls over and lazily expresses his approval.
"I'd do pretty well if I had my moustache out; I meant to get the start of you
fellows, but you're so meanly jealous, you blocked the game, Stan." All the
rancor is gone now. He well knows that Stanley was right. "Sorry to have had to
'row' you about that, Billy," says the captain, gently. "You know I can't let
one man go and not a dozen others." "Oh, hang it all! What's the difference when
time's so nearly up?" responds McKay, as he goes over to the little wood-framed
mirror that stands on the iron mantel. "Here's a substitute, though! How's this
for a moustache?" he asks, as he turns and faces them. Then he starts for the
door. Almost in an instant Stanley is up and after him. Just at the head of the
iron stairs he hails and halts him. "Billy! You are not going out of barracks?"
Unwillingly McKay yields to the pressure of the firm hand laid on his shoulder,
and turns. "Suppose I were, Stanley. What danger is there? Lee inspected last
night, and even he wouldn't make such a plan to trip me. Who ever heard of a
'tack's' inspecting after taps two successive nights?" "There's no reason why it
should not be done, and several reasons why it should," is the uncompromising
reply. "Don't risk your commission now, Billy, in any mad scheme. Come back and
take those things off. Come!" "Blatherskite! Don't hang on to me like a pick-
pocket, Stan. Let me go," says McKay, half vexed, half laughing. "I've _got_ to
go, man," he says, more seriously. "I've promised." A sudden light seems to come
to Stanley. Even in the feeble gleam from the gas-jet in the lower hall McKay
can see the look of consternation that shoots across his face. "You don't mean--
you're not going down to Hawkshurst, Billy?" "Why not to Hawkshurst, if anywhere
at all?" is the sullen reply. "Why? Because you are risking your whole future,--
your profession, your good name, McKay. You're risking your mother's heart for
the sport of a girl who is simply toying with you----"

"Take care, Stanley. Say what you like to me about myself, but not a word about
her." "This is no time for sentiment, McKay. I have known Miss Waring three
years; you, perhaps three weeks. I tell you solemnly that if she has tempted you
to 'run it' down there to see her it is simply to boast of a new triumph to the
silly pack by whom she is surrounded. I tell you she----"

"You tell me nothing! I don't allow any man to speak in that way of a woman who
is my friend," says Billy, with much majesty of mien. "Take your hand off,
Stanley," he adds, coldly. "I might have had some respect for your counsel if
you had had the least--for my feelings." And wrenching his shoulder away, McKay
speeds quickly down the stairs, leaving his comrade speechless and sorrowing in
the darkness above. In the lower hall he stops and peers cautiously over towards
the guard-house. The lights are burning brilliantly up in the room of the
officer in charge, and the red sash of the officer of the day shows through the
open door-way beneath. Now is his time, for there is no one looking. One quick
leap through the dim stream of light from the lantern at his back and he will be
in the dark area, and can pick his noiseless way to the shadows beyond. It is an
easy thing to gain the foot-path beyond the old retaining wall back of the
guard-house, scud away under the trees along the winding ascent towards Fort
Putnam, until he meets the back-road half-way up the heights; then turn
southward through the rocky cuts and forest aisles until he reaches the main
highway; then follow on through the beautiful groves, through the quiet village,
across the bridge that spans the stream above the falls, and then, only a few
hundred yards beyond, there lies Hawkshurst and its bevy of excited, whispering,
applauding, delighted girls. If he meet officers, all he has to do is put on a
bold face and trust to his disguise. He means to have a glorious time and be
back, tingling with satisfaction on his exploit, by a little after midnight. In
five minutes his quarrel with Stanley is forgotten, and, all alert and eager, he
is half-way up the heights and out of sight or hearing of the barracks. The
roads are well-nigh deserted. He meets one or two squads of soldiers coming back
from "pass" at the Falls, but no one else. The omnibuses and carriages bearing
home those visitors who have spent the evening listening to the band at the
Point are all by this time out of the way, and it is early for officers to be
returning from evening calls at the lower hotel. The chances are two to one that
he will pass the village without obstacle of any kind. Billy's spirits rise with
the occasion, and he concludes that a cigarette is the one thing needful to
complete his disguise and add to the general nonchalance of his appearance.
Having no matches he waits until he reaches the northern outskirts of the Falls,
and then steps boldly into the first bar he sees and helps himself. Coming forth
again he throws wide open the swinging screen doors, and a broad belt of light
is flashed across the dusty highway just in front of a rapidly-driven carriage
coming north. The mettlesome horses swerve and shy. The occupants are suddenly
whirled from their reposeful attitudes, though, fortunately, not from their
seats. A "top hat" goes spinning out into the roadway, and a fan flies through
the midst of the glare. The driver promptly checks his team and backs them just
as Billy, all impulsive courtesy, leaps out into the street; picks up the hat
with one hand, the fan with the other, and restores them with a bow to their
owners. Only in the nick of time does he recollect himself and crush down the
jovial impulse to hail by name Colonel Stanley and his daughter Miriam. The
sight of a cavalry uniform and Lieutenant Lee's tall figure on the forward seat
has, however, its restraining influence, and he turns quickly away--
unrecognized. But alas for Billy! Only two days before had the distribution been
made, and every man in the graduating class was already wearing the beautiful
token of their brotherhood. The civilian garb, the Derby hat, the _monocle_, the
stick, the cigarette, and the false moustache were all very well in their way,
but in the beam of light from the windows of that ill-starred saloon there
flashed upon his hand a gem that two pairs of quick, though reluctant eyes could
not and did not fail to see,--the _class ring_ of 187-. CHAPTER V.

A MIDNIGHT INSPECTION. There was a sense of constraint among the occupants of
Colonel Stanley's carriage as they were driven back to the Point. They had been
calling on old friends of his among the pretty villas below the Falls; had been
chatting joyously until that sudden swerve that pitched the colonel's hat and
Miriam's fan into the dust, and the veteran cavalryman could not account for the
lull that followed. Miriam had instantly grasped the situation. All her father's
stories of cadet days had enabled her to understand at once that here was a
cadet--a classmate of Philip's--"running it" in disguise. Mr. Lee, of course,
needed no information on the subject. What she hoped was, that he had not seen;
but the cloud on his frank, handsome face still hovered there, and she knew him
too well not to see that he understood everything. And now what was his duty?
Something told her that an inspection of barracks would be made immediately upon
his return to the Point, and in that way the name of the absentee be discovered.
She knew the regulation every cadet was expected to obey and every officer on
honor to enforce. She knew that every cadet found absent from his quarters after
taps was called upon by the commandant for prompt account of his whereabouts,
and if unable to say that he was on cadet limits during the period of his
absence, dismissal stared him in the face. The colonel did most of the talking
on the way back to the south gate. Once within the portals he called to the
driver to stop at the Mess. "I'm thirsty," said the jovial warrior, "and I want
a julep and a fresh cigar. You, too, might have a claret punch, Mimi; you are
drooping a little to-night. What is it, daughter,--tired?" "Yes, tired and a
little headachy." Then sudden thought occurs to her. "If you don't mind I think
I will go right on to the hotel. Then you and Mr. Lee can enjoy your cigars at
leisure." She knows well that Romney Lee is just the last man to let her drive
on unescorted. She can hold him ten or fifteen minutes, at least, and by that
time if the reckless boy down the road has taken warning and scurried back he
can reach the barracks before inspection is made. "Indeed, Miss Miriam, I'm not
to be disposed of so summarily," he promptly answers. "I'll see you safely to
the hotel. You'll excuse me, colonel?" "Certainly, certainly, Lee. I suppose
I'll see you later," responds the veteran. They leave him at the Mess and resume
their way, and Lee takes the vacated seat by her side. There is something he
longs to say to her,--something that has been quivering on his lips and
throbbing at his heart for many a long day. She is a queenly woman,--this dark-
eyed, stately army girl. It is only two years since, her school-days finished,
she has returned to her father's roof on the far frontier and resumed the gay
garrison life that so charmed her when a child. _Then_ a loving mother had been
her guide, but during her long sojourn at school the blow had fallen that so
wrenched her father's heart and left her motherless. Since her graduation she
alone has been the joy of the old soldier's home, and sunshine and beauty have
again gladdened his life. She would be less than woman did she not know that
here now was another soldier, brave, courteous, and gentle, who longed to win
her from that home to his own,--to call her by the sacred name of wife. She knew
how her father trusted and Phil looked up to him. She knew that down in her own
heart of hearts there was pleading for him even now, but as yet no word has been
spoken. She is not the girl to signal, "speak, and the prize is yours." He has
looked in vain for a symptom that bids him hope for more than loyal friendship.
But to-night as they reach the brightly-lighted piazza at Craney's it is she who
bids him stay. "Don't go just yet," she falters. "I feared you were tired and
wished to go to your room," he answers, gently. "Would you mind asking if there
are letters for me?" she says. It is anything to gain time, and he goes at her
behest, but--oh, luckless fate!--'tis a false move. She sees him stride away
through the groups on the piazza; sees the commandant meet him with one of his
assistants; sees that there is earnest consultation in low tone, and that then
the others hasten down the steps and disappear in the darkness. She hears him
say, "I'll follow in a moment, sir," and something tells her that what she
dreads has come to pass. Presently he returns to her with the information that
there are no letters; then raises his cap, and, in the old Southern and cadet
fashion, extends his hand. "You are not going, Mr. Lee?" again she falters. "I
have to, Miss Stanley." Slowly she puts forth her hand and lays it in his. "I--I
wish you did not have to go. _Tell_ me," she says, impulsively, imploringly,
"are you going to inspect?" He bows his head. "It is already ordered, Miss
Miriam," he says; "I must go at once. Good-night." Dazed and distressed she
turns at once, and is confronted by a pallid little maid with wild, blue eyes.
"Oh, Miss Stanley!" is the wail that greets her. "I could not help hearing, and
--if it should be Willy!" "Come with me, Nannie," she whispers, as her arm
enfolds her. "Come to my room." Meantime, there has been a breeze at the
barracks. A batch of yearlings, by way of celebrating their release from
plebedom, have hit on a time-honored scheme. Just about the same moment that
disclosed to the eyes of Lieutenant Lee the class ring gleaming on the finger of
that nattily-dressed young civilian, his comrade, the dozing officer in charge,
was started to his feet by a thunder-clap, a vivid flash that lighted up the
whole area of barracks, and an explosion that rattled the plaster in the guard-
house chimneys. One thing the commandant wouldn't stand was disorder after
"taps," and, in accordance with strict instructions, Lieutenant Lawrence sent a
drummer-boy at once to find the colonel and tell him what had taken place, while
he himself stirred up the cadet officer of the day and began an investigation.
Half the corps by this time were up and chuckling with glee at their darkened
windows; and as these subdued but still audible demonstrations of sympathy and
satisfaction did not cease on his arrival, the colonel promptly sent for his
entire force of assistants to conduct the inspection already ordered. Already
one or two "bull's-eyes" were flitting out from the officers' angle. But the
piece of boyish mischief that brings such keen delight to the youngsters in the
battalion strikes terror to the heart of Philip Stanley. He knows all too well
that an immediate inspection will be the result, and then, what is to become of
McKay? With keen anxiety, he goes to the hall window overlooking the area, and
watches the course of events. A peep into McKay's room shows that he is still
absent and that his room-mate, if disturbed at all by the "yearling fireworks,"
has gone to sleep again. Stanley sees the commandant stride under the gas-lamp
in the area; sees the gathering of the "bull's-eyes," and his heart well-nigh
fails him. Still he watches until there can be no doubt that the inspection is
already begun. Then, half credulous, all delighted, he notes that it is not Mr.
Lee, but young Mr. Lawrence, the officer in charge, who is coming straight
towards "B" Company, lantern in hand. Not waiting for the coming of the former,
the colonel has directed another officer--not a company commander--to inspect
for him. There is but one way to save Billy now. In less than half a minute
Stanley has darted into McKay's room; has slung his chevroned coat under the
bed; has slipped beneath the sheet and coverlet, and now, breathlessly, he
listens. He hears the inspector moving from room to room on the ground floor;
hears him spring up the iron stair; hears him enter his own,--the tower room at
the north end of the hall,--and there he stops, surprised, evidently, to find
Cadet Captain Stanley absent from his quarters. Then his steps are heard again.
He enters the opposite room at the north end. That is all right! and now he's
coming here. "Now for it!" says Stanley to himself, as he throws his white-
sleeved arm over his head just as he has so often seen Billy do, and turning his
face to the wall, burrows deep in the pillow and pulls the sheet well up to his
chin. The door softly opens; the "bull's-eye" flashes its gleam first on one
bed, then on the other. "All right here," is the inspector's mental verdict as
he pops out again suddenly as he entered. Billy McKay, the scapegrace, is safe
and Stanley has time to think over the situation. At the very worst, as he will
be able to say he was "visiting in barracks" when found absent, his own
punishment will not be serious. But this is not what troubles him. Demerit for
the graduating class ceases to count after the 1st of June, and the individual
sense of honor and duty is about the only restraint against lapses of
discipline. Stanley hates to think that others may now believe him deaf to this
obligation. He would far rather have had this happen when demerit and
"confinements" in due proportion had been his award, but there is no use
repining. It is a sacrifice to save--her brother. When half an hour later his
classmate, the officer of the day, enters the tower room in search of him,
Stanley is there and calmly says, "I was visiting in barracks," in answer to his
question; and finally, when morning comes, Mr. Billy McKay nearly sleeps through
reveille as a consequence of his night-prowling; but his absence, despite the
simultaneous inspection of every company in barracks, has not been detected.
With one exception every bed has had its apparently soundly sleeping occupant.
The young scamps who caused all the trouble have escaped scot-free, and the
corps can hardly believe their own ears, and Billy McKay is stunned and
perplexed when it is noised abroad that the only man "hived absent" was the
captain of Company "B." It so happens that both times he goes to find Stanley
that day he misses him. "The commandant sent for him an hour ago," says Mr.
McFarland, his room-mate, "and I'm blessed if I know what keeps him. Something
about last night's doings, I'm afraid." This, in itself, is enough to make him
worry, but the next thing he hears is worse. Just at evening call to quarters,
Jim Burton comes to his room. "Have you heard anything about this report of
Stanley's last night?" he asks, and McKay, ordinarily so frank, is guarded now
in his reply. For half an hour he has been pacing his room alone. McFarland's
revelations have set him to thinking. It is evident that the colonel's
suspicions are aroused. It is probable that it is known that some cadet was
"running it" the night before. From the simple fact that he is not already in
arrest he knows that Mr. Lee did not recognize him, yet the secret has leaked
out in some way, and an effort is being made to discover the culprit. Already he
has begun to wonder if the game was really worth the candle. He saw her, 'tis
true, and had half an hour's whispered chat with her, interrupted not
infrequently by giggling and impetuous rushes from the other girls. They had
sworn melodramatically never to reveal that it was he who came, but Billy begins
to have his doubts. "It ends my career if I'm found out," he reflects, "whereas
they can't do much to Stan for visiting." And thus communing with himself, he
has decided to guard his secret against all comers,--at least for the present.
And so he is non-committal in his reply to Burton. "What about it?" he asks.
"Why, it's simply this, Billy: Little Magee, the fifer, is on orderly duty to-
day, and he heard much of the talk, and I got it out of him. Somebody was
running it last night, and was seen down by Cozzens's gate. Stanley was the only
absentee, hence Stanley would naturally be the man suspected, but he says he
wasn't out of the barracks. The conclusion is inevitable that he was filling the
other fellow's place, and the colonel is hopping mad. It looks as though there
were collusion between them. Now, Billy, all I've got to say is that the man
he's shielding ought to step forward and relieve him at once. There comes the
sentry and I must go." Relieve him? Yes; but what means that for me? thinks poor
McKay. Dismissal; a heart break for mother. No! It is too much to face; he must
think it over. He never goes near Stanley all that night. He fears to meet him,
or the morrow. His heart misgives him when he is told that there has been a long
conference in the office. He turns white with apprehension when they fall in for
parade, and he notes that it is Phillips, their first lieutenant, who draws
sword and takes command of the company; but a few moments later his heart gives
one wild bound, then seems to sink into the ground beneath his feet, when the
adjutant drops the point of his sword, lets it dangle by the gold knot at his
wrist, whips a folded paper from his sash, and far over the plain his clear
young voice proclaims the stern order:

"Cadet Captain Stanley is hereby placed in arrest and confined to his quarters.
Charge--conniving at concealing the absence of a cadet from inspection after
'taps,' eleven--eleven-fifteen P.M., on the 7th instant. "By order of
Lieutenant-Colonel Putnam." CHAPTER VI. THE LAST DANCE. The blithest day of all
the year has come. The graduating ball takes place to-night. The Point is
thronged with joyous visitors, and yet over all there hovers a shadow. In the
midst of all this gayety and congratulation there hides a core of sorrow. Voices
lower and soft eyes turn in sympathy when certain sad faces are seen. There is
one subject on which the cadets simply refuse to talk, and there are two of the
graduating class who do not appear at the hotel at all. One is Mr. McKay, whose
absence is alleged to be because of confinements he has to serve; the other is
Philip Stanley, still in close arrest, and the latter has cancelled his
engagements for the ball. There had been a few days in which Miss McKay,
forgetting or having obtained absolution for her unguarded remarks on the
promenade deck of the steamer, had begun to be seen a great deal with Miss
Stanley. She had even blushingly shaken hands with big Lieutenant Lee, whose
kind brown eyes were full of fun and playfulness whenever he greeted her. But it
was noticed that something, all of a sudden, had occurred to mar the growing
intimacy; then that the once blithe little lady was looking white and sorrowful;
that she avoided Miss Stanley for two whole days, and that her blue eyes watched
wistfully for some one who did not come,--"Mr. Stanley, no doubt," was the
diagnosis of the case by "Miss Mischief" and others. Then, like a thunder-clap,
came the order for Phil Stanley's arrest, and then there were other sad faces.
Miriam Stanley's dark eyes were not only troubled, but down in their depths was
a gleam of suppressed indignation that people knew not how to explain. Colonel
Stanley, to whom every one had been drawn from the first, now appeared very
stern and grave; the joy had vanished from his face. Mrs. McKay was flitting
about the parlors tearfully thankful that "it wasn't her boy." Nannie had grown
whiter still, and very "absent" and silent. Mr. Lee did not come at all. Then
there was startling news! An outbreak, long smouldering, had just occurred at
the great reservation of the Spirit Wolf; the agent and several of his men had
been massacred, their women carried away into a captivity whose horrors beggar
all description, and two troops--hardly sixscore men--of Colonel Stanley's
regiment were already in pursuit. Leaving his daughter to the care of an old
friend at Craney's, and after a brief interview with his boy at barracks, the
old soldier who had come eastward with such glad anticipation turned promptly
back to the field of duty. He had taken the first train and was already beyond
the Missouri. Almost immediately after the colonel's departure, Mr. Lee had come
to the hotel and was seen to have a brief but earnest talk with Miss Stanley on
the north piazza,--a talk from which she had gone direct to her room and did not
reappear for hours, while he, who usually had a genial, kindly word for every
one, had turned abruptly down the north steps as though to avoid the crowded
halls and piazzas, and so returned to the barracks. But now, this lovely June
morning the news from the far West is still more direful. Hundreds of savages
have taken the war-path, and murder is the burden of every tale from around
their reservation, but--this is the day of "last parade" and the graduating
ball, and people cannot afford time to think of such grewsome matter. All the
same, they note that Mr. Lee comes no more to the hotel, and a rumor is in
circulation that he has begged to be relieved from duty at the Point and ordered
to join his troop now in the field against hostile Indians. Nannie McKay is
looking like a pathetic shadow of her former self as she comes down-stairs to
fulfil an engagement with a cadet admirer. She neglects no duty of the kind
towards Willy's friends and hers, but she is drooping and listless. Uncle Jack
is worried about her; so, too, is mamma, though the latter is so wrapped up in
the graduation of her boy that she has little time to think of pallid cheeks and
mournful eyes. It is all arranged that they are to sail for Europe the 1st of
July, and the sea air, the voyage across, the new sights and associations on the
other side, will "bring her round again," says that observant "avuncular"
hopefully. He is compelled to be at his office in the city much of the time, but
comes up this day as a matter of course, and has a brief chat with his graceless
nephew at the guard-house. Billy's utter lack of spirits sets Uncle Jack to
thinking. The boy says he can "tell him nothing just now," and Uncle Jack feels
well assured that he has a good deal to tell. He goes in search of Lieutenant
Lee, for whom he has conceived a great fancy, but the big lieutenant has gone to
the city on business. In the crowded hall at the hotel he meets Miriam Stanley,
and her face gives him another pound of trouble to carry. "You are going to the
ball, though?" he hears a lady say to her, and Miriam shakes her head. Ball,
indeed!--or last parade, either! She knows she cannot bear to see the class
march to the front, and her brother not there. She cannot bear the thought of
even looking on at the ball, if Philip is to be debarred from attending. Her
thoughts have been very bitter for a few days past. Her father's intense but
silent distress and regret; Philip's certain detention after the graduation of
his class; his probable court-martial and loss of rank; the knowledge that he
had incurred it all to save McKay (and everybody by this time felt that it
_must_ be Billy McKay, though no one could prove it), all have conspired to make
her very unhappy and very unjust to Mr. Lee. Philip has told her that Mr. Lee
had no alternative in reporting to the commandant his discovery "down the road,"
but she had believed herself of sufficient value in that officer's brown eyes to
induce him to at least postpone any mention of that piece of accidental
knowledge; and though, in her heart of hearts, she knows she respects him the
more because she could not prevail against his sense of duty, she is stung to
the quick, and, womanlike, has made him feel it. It must be in sympathy with her
sorrows that, late this afternoon, the heavens open and pour their floods upon
the plain. Hundreds of people are bemoaning the fact that now there can be no
graduating parade. Down in barracks the members of the class are busily packing
trunks, trying on civilian garb, and rushing about in much excitement. In more
senses than one Phil Stanley's room is a centre of gravity. The commandant at
ten o'clock had sent for him and given him final opportunity to state whose
place he occupied during the inspection of that now memorable night, and he had
respectfully but firmly declined. There was then no alternative but the
withdrawal of his diploma and his detention at the Point to await the action of
the Secretary of War upon the charges preferred against him. "The Class," of
course, knew by this time that McKay was the man whom he had saved, for after
one day of torment and indecision that hapless youth had called in half a dozen
of his comrades and made a clean breast of it. It was then his deliberate
intention to go to the commandant and beg for Stanley's release, and to offer
himself as the culprit. But Stanley had thought the problem out and gravely
interposed. It could really do no practical good to him and would only result in
disaster to McKay. No one could have anticipated the luckless chain of
circumstances that had led to his own arrest, but now he must face the
consequences. After long consultation the young counsellors had decided on the
plan. "There is only one thing for us to do: keep the matter quiet. There is
only one thing for Billy to do: keep a stiff upper lip; graduate with the class,
then go to Washington with 'Uncle Jack,' and bestir their friends in Congress,"
--not just then assembled, but always available. There was never yet a time when
a genuine "pull" from Senate and House did not triumph over the principles of
military discipline. A miserable man is Billy! For a week he has moped in
barracks, forbidden by Stanley and his advisers to admit anything, yet
universally suspected of being the cause of all the trouble. He, too, wishes to
cancel his engagements for the graduating ball, and thinks something ought to be
done to those young idiots of yearlings who set off the torpedo. "Nothing could
have gone wrong but for them," says he; but the wise heads of the class promptly
snub him into silence. "You've simply got to do as we say in this matter, Billy.
You've done enough mischief already." And so it results that the message he
sends by Uncle Jack is: "Tell mother and Nan I'll meet them at the 'hop.' My
confinements end at eight o'clock, but there's no use in my going to the hotel
and tramping through the mud." The truth is, he cannot bear to meet Miriam
Stanley, and 'twould be just his luck. One year ago no happier, bonnier,
brighter face could have been seen at the Point than that of Nannie McKay. To-
night, in all the throng of fair women and lovely girls, gathered with their
soldier escort in the great mess-hall, there is none so sad. She tries hard to
be chatty and smiling, but is too frank and honest a little soul to have much
success. The dances that Phil Stanley had engaged months and months ago are
accredited now to other names, and blissful young fellows in gray and gold come
successively to claim them. But deep down in her heart she remembers the number
of each. It was he who was to have been her escort. It was he who made out her
card and gave it to her only a day or two before that fatal interview. It was he
who was to have had the last waltz--the very last--that he would dance in the
old cadet gray; and though new names have been substituted for his in other
cases, this waltz she meant to keep. Well knowing that there would be many to
beg for it, she has written Willy's name for "Stanley," and duly warned him of
the fact. Then, when it comes, she means to escape to the dressing-room, for she
is promptly told that her brother is engaged to Miss Waring for that very waltz.
Light as are her feet, she never yet has danced with so heavy a heart. The rain
still pours, driving everybody within doors. The heat is intense. The hall is
crowded, and it frequently happens that partners cannot find her until near the
end of their number on that dainty card. But every one has something to say
about Phil Stanley and the universal regret at his absence. It is getting to be
more than she can bear,--this prolonged striving to respond with proper
appreciation and sympathy, yet not say too much,--not betray the secret that is
now burning, throbbing in her girlish heart. He does not dream it, but there,
hidden beneath the soft lace upon her snowy neck, lies that "knot of ribbon
blue" which she so laughingly had given him, at his urging, the last day of her
visit the previous year; the knot which he had so loyally treasured and then so
sadly returned. A trifling, senseless thing to make such an ado about, but these
hearts are young and ardent, and this romance of his has many a counterpart, the
memory of which may bring to war-worn, grizzled heads to-day a blush almost of
shame, and would surely bring to many an old and sometimes aching heart a sigh.
Hoping against hope, poor Nannie has thought it just possible that at the last
moment the authorities would relent and he be allowed to attend. If so,--if so,
angry and justly angered though he might be, cut to the heart though he
expressed himself, has she not here the means to call him back?--to bid him come
and know how contrite she is? Hour after hour she glances at the broad archway
at the east, yearning to see his dark, handsome face among the new-comers,--all
in vain. Time and again she encounters Sallie Waring, brilliant, bewitching, in
the most ravishing of toilets, and always with half a dozen men about her. Twice
she notices Will among them with a face gloomy and rebellious, and, hardly
knowing why, she almost hates her. At last comes the waltz that was to have been
Philip's,--the waltz she has saved for his sake though he cannot claim it. Mr.
Pennock, who has danced the previous galop with her, sees the leader raising his
baton, bethinks him of his next partner, and leaves her at the open window close
to the dressing-room door. There she can have a breath of fresh air, and, hiding
behind the broad backs of several bulky officers and civilians, listen
undisturbed to the music she longed to enjoy with him. Here, to her surprise,
Will suddenly joins her. "I thought you were engaged to Miss Waring for this,"
she says. "I was," he answers, savagely; "but I'm well out of it. I resigned in
favor of a big 'cit' who's worth only twenty thousand a year, Nan, and she has
been engaged to him all this time and never let me know until to-night."
"_Willy!_" she gasps. "Oh! I'm so glad--sorry, I mean! I never _did_ like her."
"_I_ did, Nan, more's the pity. I'm not the first she's made a fool of;" and he
turns away, hiding the chagrin in his young face. They are practically alone in
this sheltered nook. Crowds are around them, but looking the other way. The rain
is dripping from the trees without and pattering on the stone flags. McKay leans
out into the night, and the sister's loving heart yearns over him in his
trouble. "Willy," she says, laying the little white-gloved hand on his arm,
"it's hard to bear, but she isn't worthy _any_ man's love. Twice I've heard in
the last two days that she makes a boast of it that 'twas to see her that some
one risked his commission and so--kept Mr. Stanley from being here to-night.
Willy, _do_ you know who it was? _Don't_ you think he ought to have come forward
like a gentleman, days ago, and told the truth? _Will!_ What is it? _Don't_ look
so! Speak to me, Willy,--your little Nan. Was there ever a time, dear, when my
whole heart wasn't open to you in love and sympathy?" And now, just at this
minute, the music begins again. Soft, sweet, yet with such a strain of pathos
and of sadness running through every chord; it is the loveliest of all the
waltzes played in his "First Class Camp,"--the one of all others he most loved
to hear. Her heart almost bursts now to think of him in his lonely room, beyond
hearing of the melody that is so dear to him, that is now so passionately dear
to her,--"Love's Sigh." Doubtless, Philip had asked the leader days ago to play
it here and at no other time. It is more than enough to start the tears long
welling in her eyes. For an instant it turns her from thought of Willy's own
heartache. "Will!" she whispers, desperately. "This was to have been Philip
Stanley's waltz--and I want you to take--something to him for me." He turns back
to her again, his hands clinched, his teeth set, still thinking only of his own
bitter humiliation,--of how that girl has fooled and jilted him,--of how for her
sake he had brought all this trouble on his stanchest friend. "Phil Stanley!" he
exclaims. "By heaven! it makes me nearly mad to think of it!--and all for her
sake,--all through me. Oh, Nan! Nan! I _must_ tell you! It was for me,--to save
me that----"

"_Willy!_" and there is almost horror in her wide blue eyes. "_Willy!_" she
gasps--"oh, _don't_--don't tell me _that_! Oh, it isn't _true_? Not you--not
you, Willy. Not my brother! Oh, quick! Tell me." Startled, alarmed, he seizes
her hand. "Little sister! What--what has happened--what is----"

But there is no time for more words. The week of misery; the piteous strain of
the long evening; the sweet, sad, wailing melody,--his favorite waltz; the
sudden, stunning revelation that it was for Willy's sake that he--her hero--was
now to suffer, he whose heart she had trampled on and crushed! It is all more
than mortal girl can bear. With the beautiful strains moaning, whirling,
ringing, surging through her brain, she is borne dizzily away into darkness and
oblivion. *     *     *     *     *

There follows a week in which sadder faces yet are seen about the old hotel. The
routine of the Academy goes on undisturbed. The graduating class has taken its
farewell of the gray walls and gone upon its way. New faces, new voices are
those in the line of officers at parade. The corps has pitched its white tents
under the trees beyond the grassy parapet of Fort Clinton, and, with the
graduates and furlough-men gone, its ranks look pitifully thinned. The throng of
visitors has vanished. The halls and piazzas at Craney's are well-nigh deserted,
but among the few who linger there is not one who has not loving inquiry for the
young life that for a brief while has fluttered so near the grave. "Brain
fever," said the doctors to Uncle Jack, and a new anxiety was lined in his
kindly face as he and Will McKay sped on their mission to the Capitol. They had
to go, though little Nan lay sore stricken at the Point. But youth and
elasticity triumph. The danger is passed. She lies now, very white and still,
listening to the sweet strains of the band trooping down the line this soft June
evening. Her mother, worn with watching, is resting on the lounge. It is Miriam
Stanley who hovers at the bedside. Presently the bugles peal the retreat; the
sunset gun booms across the plain; the ringing voice of the young adjutant comes
floating on the southerly breeze, and, as she listens, Nannie follows every
detail of the well-known ceremony, wondering how it _could_ go on day after day
with no Mr. Pennock to read the orders; with no "big Burton" to thunder his
commands to the first company; with no Philip Stanley to march the colors to
their place on the line. "Where is _he_?" is the question in the sweet blue eyes
that so wistfully seek his sister's face; but she answers not. One by one the
first sergeants made their reports; and now--that ringing voice again, reading
the orders of the day. How clear it sounds! How hushed and still the listening
Point! "Head-quarters of the Army," she hears. "Washington, June 15, 187-.
Special orders, Number--. "_First._ Upon his own application, First Lieutenant
George Romney Lee, --th Cavalry, is hereby relieved from duty at the U. S.
Military Academy, and will join his troop now in the field against hostile
Indians. "_Second._ Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent U. S. Military
Academy, the charges preferred against Cadet Captain Philip S. Stanley are
withdrawn. Cadet Stanley will be considered as graduated with his class on the
12th instant, will be released from arrest, and authorized to avail himself of
the leave of absence granted his class." Nannie starts from her pillow, clasping
in her thin white fingers the soft hand that would have restrained her.
"Miriam!" she cries. "Then--will he go?" The dark, proud face bends down to her;
clasping arms encircle the little white form, and Miriam Stanley's very heart
wails forth in answer,--

"Oh, Nannie! He is almost there by this time,--both of them. They left to join
the regiment three days ago; their orders came by telegraph." Another week, and
Uncle Jack is again with them. The doctors agree that the ocean voyage is now
not only advisable, but necessary. They are to move their little patient to the
city and board their steamer in a day or two. Will has come to them, full of
disgust that he has been assigned to the artillery, and filling his mother's
heart with dismay because he is begging for a transfer to the cavalry, to the
--th Regiment,--of all others,--now plunged in the whirl of an Indian war. Every
day the papers come freighted with rumors of fiercer fighting; but little that
is reliable can be heard from "Sabre Stanley" and his column. They are far
beyond telegraphic communication, hemmed in by "hostiles" on every side. Uncle
Jack is an early riser. Going down for his paper before breakfast, he is met at
the foot of the stairs by a friend who points to the head-lines of the _Herald_,
with the simple remark, "Isn't this hard?" It is brief enough, God knows. "A
courier just in from Colonel Stanley's camp brings the startling news that
Lieutenant Philip Stanley, --th Cavalry, with two scouts and a small escort, who
left here Sunday, hoping to push through to the Spirit Wolf, were ambushed by
the Indians in Black Canyon. Their bodies, scalped and mutilated, were found
Wednesday night." Where, then, was Romney Lee? CHAPTER VII. BLACK CANYON. The
red sun is going down behind the line of distant buttes, throwing long shadows
out across the grassy upland. Every crest and billow of the prairie is bathed in
crimson and gold, while the "breaks" and ravines trending southward grow black
and forbidding in their contrasted gloom. Far over to the southeast, in dazzling
radiance, two lofty peaks, still snow-clad, gleam against the summer sky, and at
their feet dark waves of forest-covered foot-hills drink in the last rays of the
waning sunshine as though hoarding its treasured warmth against the chill of
coming night. Already the evening air, rare and exhilarating at this great
altitude, loses the sun-god's touch and strikes upon the cheek keen as the ether
of the limitless heavens. A while ago, only in the distant valley winding to the
south could foliage be seen. Now, all in those depths is merged in sombre shade,
and not a leaf or tree breaks for miles the grand monotony. Close at hand a host
of tiny mounds, each tipped with reddish gold, and some few further ornamented
by miniature sentry, alert and keen-eyed, tell of a prairie township already
laid out and thickly populated; and at this moment every sentry is chipping his
pert, querulous challenge until the disturbers of the peace are close upon him,
then diving headlong into the bowels of the earth. A dun cloud of dust rolls
skyward along a well-worn cavalry trail, and is whirled into space by the hoofs
of sixty panting chargers trotting steadily south. Sixty sunburned, dust-covered
troopers ride grimly on, following the lead of a tall soldier whose kind brown
eyes peer anxiously from under his scouting-hat. It is just as they pass the
village of the prairie dogs that he points to the low valley down to the front
and questions the "plainsman" who lopes along by his side,--

"That Black Canyon down yonder?" "That's it, lieutenant: I didn't think you
could make it to-night." "We _had_ to," is the simple reply as again the spur
touches the jaded flank and evokes only a groan in response. "How far from here
to--the Springs?" he presently asks again. "Box Elder?--where they found the
bodies?--'bout five mile, sir." "Where away was that signal smoke we saw at the
divide?" "Must have been from those bluffs--east of the Springs, sir."
Lieutenant Lee whips out his watch and peers at the dial through the twilight.
The cloud deepens on his haggard, handsome face. Eight o'clock, and they have
been in saddle almost incessantly since yesterday afternoon, weighed down with
the tidings of the fell disaster that has robbed them of their comrades, and
straining every nerve to reach the scene. Only five days before, as he stepped
from the railway car at the supply station, a wagon-train had come in from the
front escorted by Mr. Lee's own troop; his captain with it, wounded. Just as
soon as it could reload with rations and ammunition the train was to start on
its eight days' journey to the Spirit Wolf, where Colonel Stanley and the --th
were bivouacked and scouring the neighboring mountains. Already a battalion of
infantry was at the station, another was on its way, and supplies were being
hurried forward. Captain Gregg brought the first reliable news. The Indians had
apparently withdrawn from the road. The wagon-train had come through unmolested,
and Colonel Stanley was expecting to push forward into their fastnesses farther
south the moment he could obtain authority from head-quarters. With these
necessary orders two couriers had started just twelve hours before. The captain
was rejoiced to see his favorite lieutenant and to welcome Philip Stanley to the
regiment. "Everybody seemed to feel that you too would be coming right along,"
he said; "but, Phil, my boy, I'm afraid you're too late for the fun. You cannot
catch the command before it starts from Spirit Wolf." And yet this was just what
Phil had tried to do. Lee knew nothing of his plan until everything had been
arranged between the young officer and the major commanding the temporary camp
at the station. Then it was too late to protest. While it was Mr. Lee's duty to
remain and escort the train, Philip Stanley, with two scouts and half a dozen
troopers, had pushed out to overtake the regiment two hundred miles away. Forty-
eight hours later, as the wagon-train with its guard was slowly crawling
southward, it was met by a courier with ghastly face. He was one of three who
had started from the ruined agency together. They met no Indians, but at Box
Elder Springs had come upon the bodies of a little party of soldiers stripped,
scalped, gashed, and mutilated,--nine in all. There could be little doubt that
they were those of poor Philip and his new-found comrades. The courier had
recognized two of the bodies as those of Forbes and Whiting,--the scouts who had
gone with the party; the others he did not know at all. Parking his train then
and there, sending back to the railway for an infantry company to hasten forward
and take charge of it, Mr. Lee never hesitated as to his own course. He and his
troop pushed on at once. And now, worn, weary, but determined, the little
command is just in sight of the deep ravine known to frontiersmen for years as
Black Canyon. It was through here that Stanley and his battalion had marched a
fortnight since. It was along this very trail that Phil and his party, pressing
eagerly on to join the regiment, rode down into its dark depths and were
ambushed at the Springs. From all indications, said the courier, they must have
unsaddled for a brief rest, probably just at nightfall; but the Indians had left
little to aid them in forming an opinion. Utterly unnerved by the sight, his two
associates had turned back to rejoin Stanley's column, while he, the third, had
decided to make for the railway. Unless those men, too, had been cut off, the
regiment by this time knew of the tragic fate of some of their comrades, but the
colonel was mercifully spared all dread that one of the victims was his only
son. Nine were in the party when they started. Nine bodies were lying there when
the couriers reached the Springs, and now nine are lying here to-night when,
just after moonrise, Romney Lee dismounts and bends sadly over them, one after
another. The prairie wolves have been here first, adding mutilation to the
butchery of their human prototypes. There is little chance, in this pallid light
and with these poor remnants, to make identification a possibility. All vestiges
of uniform, arms, and equipment have been carried away, and such underclothing
as remains has been torn to shreds by the herd of snarling, snapping brutes
which is driven off only by the rush of the foremost troopers, and is now
dispersed all over the canyon and far up the heights beyond the outposts,
yelping indignant protest. There can be no doubt as to the number slain. All the
nine are here, and Mr. Lee solemnly pencils the despatch that is to go back to
the railway so soon as a messenger and his horse can get a few hours' needed
rest. Before daybreak the man is away, meeting on his lonely ride other comrades
hurrying to the front, to whom he briefly gives confirmation of the first
report. Before the setting of the second sun he has reached his journey's end,
and the telegraph is flashing the mournful details to the distant East, and so,
when the "Servia" slowly glides from her moorings and turns her prow towards the
sparkling sea, Nannie McKay is sobbing her heart out alone in her little white
state-room, crushing with her kisses, bathing with her tears, the love-knot she
had given her soldier boy less than a year before. Another night comes around.
Tiny fires are glowing down in the dark depths of Black Canyon, showing red
through the frosty gleam of the moonlight. Under the silvery rays nine new-made
graves are ranked along the turf, guarded by troopers whose steeds are browsing
close at hand. Silence and sadness reign in the little bivouac where Lee and his
comrades await the coming of the train they had left three days before. It will
be here on the morrow, early, and then they must push ahead and bear their heavy
tidings to the regiment. He has written one sorrowing letter--and what a letter
to have to write to the woman he loves!--to tell Miriam that he has been unable
to identify any one of the bodies as that of her gallant young brother, yet is
compelled to believe him to lie there, one of the stricken nine. And now he must
face the father with this bitter news! Romney Lee's sore heart fails him at the
prospect, and he cannot sleep. Good heaven! _Can_ it be that three weeks only
have passed away since the night of that lovely yet ill-fated carriage-ride down
through Highland Falls, down beyond picturesque Hawkshurst? Out on the bluffs,
though he cannot see them, and up and down the canyon, vigilant sentries guard
this solemn bivouac. No sign of Indian has been seen except the hoof-prints of a
score of ponies and the bloody relics of their direful visit. No repetition of
the signal-smokes has greeted their watchful eyes. It looks as though this
outlying band of warriors had noted his coming, had sent up their warning to
others of their tribe, and then scattered for the mountains at the south. All
the same, as he rode the bluff lines at nightfall, Mr. Lee had charged the
sentries to be alert with eye and ear, and to allow none to approach
unchallenged. The weary night wears on. The young moon has ridden down in the
west and sunk behind that distant bluff line. All is silent as the graves around
which his men are slumbering, and at last, worn with sorrow and vigil, Lee rolls
himself in his blanket and, still booted and spurred, stretches his feet towards
the little watch-fire, and pillows his head upon the saddle. Down the stream the
horses are already beginning to tug at their lariats and struggle to their feet,
that they may crop the dew-moistened bunch grass. Far out upon the chill night
air the yelping challenge of the coyotes is heard, but the sentries give no
sign. Despite grief and care, Nature asserts her sway and is fast lulling Lee to
sleep, when, away up on the heights to the northwest, there leaps out a sudden
lurid flash and, a second after, the loud ring of the cavalry carbine comes
echoing down the canyon. Lee springs to his feet and seizes his rifle. The first
shot is quickly followed by a second; the men are tumbling up from their
blankets and, with the instinct of old campaigners, thrusting cartridges into
the opened chambers. "Keep your men together here, sergeant," is the brief
order, and in a moment more Lee is spurring upward along an old game trail. Just
under the crest he overtakes a sergeant hurrying northward. "What is it? Who
fired?" he asks. "Morris fired, sir: I don't know why. He is the farthest post
up the bluffs." Together they reach a young trooper, crouching in the pallid
dawn behind a jagged parapet of rock, and eagerly demanded the cause of the
alarm. The sentry is quivering with excitement. "An Indian, sir! Not a hundred
yards out there! I seen him plain enough to swear to it. He rose up from behind
that point yonder and started out over the prairie, and I up and fired." "Did
you challenge?" "No, sir," answers the young soldier, simply. "He was going
away. He couldn't understand me if I had,--leastwise I couldn't 'a understood
him. He ran like a deer the moment I fired, and was out of sight almost before I
could send another shot." Lee and the sergeant push out along the crest, their
arms at "ready," their keen eyes searching every dip in the surface. Close to
the edge of the canyon, perhaps a hundred yards away, they come upon a little
ledge, behind which, under the bluff, it is possible for an Indian to steal
unnoticed towards their sentries and to peer into the depths below. Some one has
been here within a few minutes, watching, stretched prone upon the turf, for Lee
finds it dry and almost warm, while all around the bunch grass is heavy with
dew. Little by little as the light grows warmer in the east and aids them in
their search, they can almost trace the outline of a recumbent human form.
Presently the west wind begins to blow with greater strength, and they note the
mass of clouds, gray and frowning, that is banked against the sky. Out on the
prairie not a moving object can be seen, though the eye can reach a good rifle-
shot away. Down in the darkness of the canyon the watch-fires still smoulder and
the men still wait. There comes no further order from the heights. Lee, with the
sergeant, is now bending over faint footprints just discernible in the pallid
light. Suddenly up he starts and gazes eagerly out to the west. The sergeant,
too, at the same instant, leaps towards his commander. Distant, but distinct,
two quick shots have been fired far over among those tumbling buttes and ridges
lying there against the horizon. Before either man could speak or question,
there comes another, then another, then two or three in quick succession, the
sound of firing thick and fast. "It's a fight, sir, sure!" cries the sergeant,
eagerly. "To horse, then,--quick!" is the answer, as the two soldiers bound back
to the trail. "Saddle up, men!" rings the order, shouted down the rocky flanks
of the ravine. There is instant response in the neigh of excited horses, the
clatter of iron-shod hoofs. Through the dim light the men go rushing, saddles
and bridles in hand, each to where he has driven his own picket pin. Promptly
the steeds are girthed and bitted. Promptly the men come running back to the
bivouac, seizing and slinging carbines, then leading into line. A brief word of
command, another of caution, and then the whole troop is mounted and, following
its leader, rides ghost-like up a winding ravine that enters the canyon from the
west and goes spurring to the high plateau beyond. Once there the eager horses
have ample room; the springing turf invites their speed. "Front into line" they
sweep at rapid gallop, and then, with Lee well out before them, with carbines
advanced, with hearts beating high, with keen eyes flashing, and every ear
strained for sound of the fray, away they bound. There's a fight ahead! Some one
needs their aid, and there's not a man in all old "B" troop who does not mean to
avenge those new-made graves. Up a little slope they ride, all eyes fixed on
Lee. They see him reach the ridge, sweep gallantly over, then, with ringing
cheer, turn in saddle, wave his revolver high in air, clap spur to his horse's
flank and go darting down the other side. "Come _on_, lads!" Ay, on it is! One
wild race for the crest, one headland charge down the slope beyond, and they are
rolling over a band of yelling, scurrying, savage horsemen, whirling them away
over the opposite ridge, driving them helter-skelter over the westward prairie,
until all who escape the shock of the onset or the swift bullet in the raging
chase finally vanish from their sight; and then, obedient to the ringing
"recall" of the trumpet, slowly they return, gathering again in the little
ravine; and there, wondering, rejoicing, jubilant, they cluster at the entrance
of a deep cleft in the rocks, where, bleeding from a bullet-wound in the arm,
but with a world of thankfulness and joy in his handsome face, their leader
stands, clasping Philip Stanley, pallid, faint, well-nigh starved, but--God be
praised!--safe and unscathed. CHAPTER VIII. CAPTURED. How the tidings of that
timely rescue thrill through every heart at old Fort Warrener! There are
gathered the wives and children of the regiment. There is the colonel's home,
silent and darkened for that one long week, then ringing with joy and
congratulation, with gladness and thanksgiving. Miriam again is there, suddenly
lifted from the depths of sorrow to a wealth of bliss she had no words to
express. Day and night the little army coterie flocked about her to hear again
and again the story of Philip's peril and his final rescue, and then to exclaim
over Romney Lee's gallantry and devotion. It was all so bewildering. For a week
they had mourned their colonel's only son as dead and buried. The wondrous tale
of his discovery sounded simply fabulous, and yet was simply true. Hurrying
forward from the railway, the little party had been joined by two young
frontiersmen eager to obtain employment with the scouts of Stanley's column.
Halting just at sunset for brief rest at Box Elder Springs, the lieutenant with
Sergeant Harris had climbed the bluffs to search for Indian signal fires. It was
nearly dark when on their return they were amazed to hear the sound of fire-arms
in the canyon, and were themselves suddenly attacked and completely cut off from
their comrades. Stanley's horse was shot; but Sergeant Harris, though himself
wounded, helped his young officer to mount behind him, and galloped back into
the darkness, where they evaded their pursuers by turning loose their horse and
groping in among the rocks. Here they hid all night and all next day in the deep
cleft where Lee had found them, listening to the shouts and signals of a swarm
of savage foes. At last the sounds seemed to die away, the Indians to disappear,
and then hunger, thirst, and the feverish delirium of the sergeant, who was
tortured for want of water, drove Stanley forth in hopes of reaching the canyon.
Fired at, as he supposed, by Indians, he was speedily back in his lair again,
but was there almost as speedily tracked and besieged. For a while he was able
to keep the foe at bay, but Lee had come just in the nick of time; only two
cartridges were left, and poor Harris was nearly gone. A few weeks later, while
the --th is still on duty rounding up the Indians in the mountains, the wounded
are brought home to Warrener. There are not many, for only the first detachment
of two small troops had had any serious engagement; but the surgeons say that
Mr. Lee's arm is so badly crippled that he can do no field work for several
months, and he had best go in to the railway. And now he is at Warrener; and
here, one lovely moonlit summer's evening, he is leaning on the gate in front of
the colonel's quarters, utterly regardless of certain injunctions as to avoiding
exposure to the night air. Good Mrs. Wilton, the major's wife,--who, army
fashion, is helping Miriam keep house in her father's absence,--has gone in
before "to light up," she says, though it is too late for callers; and they have
been spending a long evening at Captain Gregg's, "down the row." It is Miriam
who keeps the tall lieutenant at the gate. She has said good-night, yet lingers.
He has been there several days, his arm still in its sling, and not once has she
had a word with him alone till now. Some one has told her that he has asked for
leave of absence to go East and settle some business affairs he had to leave
abruptly when hurrying to take part in the campaign. If this be true is it not
time to be making her peace? The moonlight throws a brilliant sheen on all
surrounding objects, yet she stands in the shade, bowered in a little archway of
vines that overhangs the gate. He has been strangely silent during the brief
walk homeward, and now, so far from following into the shadows as she half hoped
he might do, he stands without, the flood of moonlight falling full upon his
stalwart figure. Two months ago he would not thus have held aloof, yet now he is
half extending his hand as though in adieu. She cannot fathom this strange
silence on the part of him who so long has been devoted as a lover. She knows
well it cannot be because of her injustice to him at the Point that he is
unrelenting now. Her eyes have told him how earnestly she repents: and does he
not always read her eyes? Only in faltering words, in the presence of others all
too interested, has she been able to speak her thanks for Philip's rescue. She
cannot see now that what he fears from her change of mood is that gratitude for
her brother's safety, not a woman's response to the passionate love in his deep
heart, is the impulse of this sweet, half-shy, half-entreating manner. He cannot
sue for love from a girl weighted with a sense of obligation. He knows that
lingering here is dangerous, yet he cannot go. When friends are silent 'tis time
for chats to close: but there is a silence that at such a time as this only bids
a man to speak, and speak boldly. Yet Lee is dumb. Once--over a year ago--he had
come to the colonel's quarters to seek permission to visit the neighboring town
on some sudden errand. She had met him at the door with the tidings that her
father had been feeling far from well during the morning, and was now taking a
nap. "Won't I do for commanding officer this time?" she had laughingly inquired.
"I would ask no better fate--for all time," was his prompt reply, and he spoke
too soon. Though neither ever forgot the circumstance, she would never again
permit allusion to it. But to-night it is uppermost in her mind. She _must_ know
if it be true that he is going. "Tell me," she suddenly asks, "have you applied
for leave of absence?" "Yes," he answers, simply. "And you are going--soon?" "I
am going to-morrow," is the utterly unlooked-for reply. "To-morrow! Why--Mr.
Lee!" There can be no mistaking the shock it gives her, and still he stands and
makes no sign. It is cruel of him! What has she said or done to deserve penance
like this? He is still holding out his hand as though in adieu, and she lays
hers, fluttering, in the broad palm. "I--I thought all applications had to be
made to--your commanding officer," she says at last, falteringly, yet archly.
"Major Wilton forwarded mine on Monday. I asked him to say nothing about it. The
answer came by wire to-day." "Major Wilton is _post_ commander; but--did you not
--a year----?" "Did I not?" he speaks in eager joy. "Do you mean you have not
forgotten _that_? Do you mean that now--for all time--my first allegiance shall
be to you, Miriam?" No answer for a minute; but her hand is still firmly clasped
in his. At last,--

"Don't you think you ought to have asked me, before applying for leave to go?"
Mr. Lee is suddenly swallowed up in the gloom of that shaded bower under the
trellis-work, though a radiance as of mid-day is shining through his heart. But
soon he has to go. Mrs. Wilton is on the veranda, urging them to come in out of
the chill night air. Those papers on his desk must be completed and filed this
very night. He told her this. "To-morrow, early, I will be here," he murmurs.
"And now, good-night, my own." But she does not seek to draw her hand away.
Slowly he moves back into the bright moonbeams and she follows part way. One
quick glance she gives as her hand is released and he raises his forage cap. It
is _such_ a disadvantage to have but one arm at such a time! She sees that Mrs.
Wilton is at the other end of the veranda. "Good-night," she whispers. "I--know
you _must_ go." "I must. There is so much to be done." "I--thought"--another
quick glance at the piazza--"that a soldier, on leaving, should--salute his
commanding officer?" And Romney Lee is again in shadow and--in sunshine. *     *
*     *     *

Late that autumn, in one of his infrequent letters to his devoted mother, Mr.
McKay finds time to allude to the news of Lieutenant Lee's approaching marriage
to Miss Stanley. "Phil is, of course, immensely pleased," he writes, "and from
all I hear I suppose Mr. Lee is a very different fellow from what we thought six
months ago. Pennock says I always had a wrong idea of him; but Pennock thinks
all my ideas about the officers appointed over me are absurd. He likes old
Pelican, our battery commander, who is just the crankiest, crabbedest, sore-
headedest captain in all the artillery, and that is saying a good deal. I wish
I'd got into the cavalry at the start; but there's no use in trying now. The
--th is the only regiment I wanted; but they have to go to reveille and stables
before breakfast, which wouldn't suit me at all. "Hope Nan's better. A winter in
the Riviera will set her up again. Stanley asks after her when he writes, but he
has rather dropped me of late. I suppose it's because I was too busy to answer,
though he ought to know that in New York harbor a fellow has no time for
scribbling, whereas, out on the plains they have nothing else to do. He sent me
his picture a while ago, and I tell you he has improved wonderfully. Such a
swell moustache! I meant to have sent it over for you and Nan to see, but I've
mislaid it somewhere." Poor little Nan! She would give many of her treasures for
one peep at the coveted picture that Will holds so lightly. There had been
temporary improvement in her health at the time Uncle Jack came with the joyous
tidings that Stanley was safe after all; but even the Riviera fails to restore
her wonted spirits. She droops visibly during the long winter. "She grows so
much older away from Willy," says the fond mamma, to whom proximity to that
vivacious youth is the acme of earthly bliss. Uncle Jack grins and says nothing.
It is dawning upon him that something is needed besides the air and sunshine of
the Riviera to bring back the dancing light in those sweet blue eyes and joy to
the wistful little face. "The time to see the Yosemite and 'the glorious climate
of California' is April, not October," he suddenly declares, one balmy morning
by the Mediterranean; "and the sooner we get back to Yankeedom the better 'twill
suit me." And so it happens that, early in the month of meteorological smiles
and tears, the trio are speeding westward far across the rolling prairies: Mrs.
McKay deeply scandalized at the heartless conduct of the War Department in
refusing Willy a two-months' leave to go with them; Uncle Jack quizzically
disposed to look upon that calamity as a not utterly irretrievable ill; and Nan,
fluttering with hope, fear, joy, and dread, all intermingled; for is not _he_
stationed at Cheyenne? All these long months has she cherished that little knot
of senseless ribbon. If she had sent it to him within the week of his
graduation, perhaps it would not have seemed amiss; but after that, after all he
had been through in the campaign,--the long months of silence,--he might have
changed, and, for very shame, she cannot bring herself to give a signal he would
perhaps no longer wish to obey. Every hour her excitement and nervousness
increase; but when the conductor of the Pullman comes to say that Cheyenne is
really in sight, and the long whistle tells that they are nearing the dinner
station of those days, Nan simply loses herself entirely. There will be half an
hour, and Philip actually there to see, to hear, to answer. She hardly knows
whether she is of this mortal earth when Uncle Jack comes bustling in with the
gray-haired colonel, when she feels Miriam's kiss upon her cheek, when Mr. Lee,
handsomer and kindlier than ever, bends down to take her hand; but she looks
beyond them all for the face she longs for,--and it is not there. The car seems
whirling around when, from over her shoulder, she hears, in the old, well-
remembered tones, a voice that redoubles the throb of her little heart. "Miss
Nannie!" And there--bending over her, his face aglow, and looking marvellously
well in his cavalry uniform--is Philip Stanley. She knows not what she says. She
has prepared something proper and conventional, but it has all fled. She looks
one instant up into his shining eyes, and there is no need to speak at all.
Every one else is so busy that no one sees, no one knows, that he is firmly
clinging to her hand, and that she shamelessly and passively submits. A little
later--just as the train is about to start--they are standing at the rear door
of the sleeper. The band of the --th is playing some distance up the platform,--
a thoughtful device of Mr. Lee's to draw the crowd that way,--and they are
actually alone. An exquisite happiness is in her eyes as she peers up into the
love-light in his strong, steadfast face. _Something_ must have been said; for
he draws her close to his side and bends over her as though all the world were
wrapped up in this dainty little morsel of womanhood. Suddenly the great train
begins slowly to move. Part they must now, though it be only for a time. He
folds her quickly, unresisting, to his breast. The sweet blue eyes begin to
fill. "My darling,--my little Nannie," he whispers, as his lips kiss away the
gathering tears. "There is just an instant. What is it you tell me you have kept
for me?" "This," she answers, shyly placing in his hand a little packet wrapped
in tissue-paper. "Don't look at it yet! Wait!--But--I wanted to send it--the
very next day, Philip." Slowly he turns her blushing face until he can look into
her eyes. The glory in his proud, joyous gaze is a delight to see. "My own
little girl," he whispers, as his lips meet hers. "I know it is my love-knot."
THE WORST MAN IN THE TROOP. Just why that young Irishman should have been so
balefully branded was more than the first lieutenant of the troop could
understand. To be sure, the lieutenant's opportunities for observation had been
limited. He had spent some years on detached service in the East, and had joined
his comrades in Arizona but a fortnight ago, and here he was already becoming
rapidly initiated in the science of scouting through mountain-wilds against the
wariest and most treacherous of foemen,--the Apaches of our Southwestern
territory. Coming, as he had done, direct from a station and duties where full-
dress uniform, lavish expenditure for kid gloves, bouquets, and Lubin's extracts
were matters of daily fact, it must be admitted that the sensations he
experienced on seeing his detachment equipped for the scout were those of mild
consternation. That much latitude as to individual dress and equipment was
permitted he had previously been informed; that "full dress," and white shirts,
collars, and the like would be left at home, he had sense enough to know; but
that every officer and man in the command would be allowed to discard any and
all portions of the regulation uniform and appear rigged out in just such motley
guise as his poetic or practical fancy might suggest, had never been pointed out
to him; and that he, commanding his troop while a captain commanded the little
battalion, could by any military possibility take his place in front of his men
without his sabre, had never for an instant occurred to him. As a consequence,
when he bolted into the mess-room shortly after daybreak on a bright June
morning with that imposing but at most times useless item of cavalry equipment
clanking at his heels, the lieutenant gazed with some astonishment upon the
attire of his brother-officers there assembled, but found himself the butt of
much good-natured and not over-witty "chaff," directed partially at the extreme
newness and neatness of his dark-blue flannel scouting-shirt and high-top boots,
but more especially at the glittering sabre swinging from his waist-belt.
"Billings," said Captain Buxton, with much solemnity, "while you have probably
learned through the columns of a horror-stricken Eastern press that we scalp,
alive or dead, all unfortunates who fall into our clutches, I assure you that
even for that purpose the cavalry sabre has, in Arizona at least, outlived its
usefulness. It is too long and clumsy, you see. What you really want for the
purpose is something like this,"--and he whipped out of its sheath a rusty but
keen-bladed Mexican _cuchillo_,--"something you can wield with a deft turn of
the wrist, you know. The sabre is apt to tear and mutilate the flesh, especially
when you use both hands." And Captain Buxton winked at the other subaltern and
felt that he had said a good thing. But Mr. Billings was a man of considerable
good nature and ready adaptability to the society or circumstances by which he
might be surrounded. "Chaff" was a very cheap order of wit, and the serenity of
his disposition enabled him to shake off its effect as readily as water is
scattered from the plumage of the duck. "So you don't wear the sabre on a scout?
So much the better. I have my revolvers and a Sharp's carbine, but am destitute
of anything in the knife line." And with that Mr. Billings betook himself to the
duty of despatching the breakfast that was already spread before him in an array
tempting enough to a frontier appetite, but little designed to attract a _bon
vivant_ of civilization. Bacon, _frijoles_, and creamless coffee speedily become
ambrosia and nectar under the influence of mountain-air and mountain-exercise;
but Mr. Billings had as yet done no climbing. A "buck-board" ride had been his
means of transportation to the garrison,--a lonely four-company post in a far-
away valley in Northeastern Arizona,--and in the three or four days of intense
heat that had succeeded his arrival exercise of any kind had been out of the
question. It was with no especial regret, therefore, that he heard the summons
of the captain, "Hurry up, man; we must be off in ten minutes." And in less than
ten minutes the lieutenant was on his horse and superintending the formation of
his troop. If Mr. Billings was astonished at the garb of his brother-officers at
breakfast, he was simply aghast when he glanced along the line of Company "A"
(as his command was at that time officially designated) and the first sergeant
rode out to report his men present or accounted for. The first sergeant himself
was got up in an old gray-flannel shirt, open at and disclosing a broad, brown
throat and neck; his head was crowned with what had once been a white felt
_sombrero_, now tanned by desert sun, wind, and dirt into a dingy mud-color; his
powerful legs were encased in worn deer-skin breeches tucked into low-topped,
broad-soled, well-greased boots; his waist was girt with a rude "thimble-belt,"
in the loops of which were thrust scores of copper cartridges for carbine and
pistol; his carbine, and those of all the command, swung in a leather loop
athwart the pommel of the saddle; revolvers in all manner of cases hung at the
hip, the regulation holster, in most instances, being conspicuous by its
absence. Indeed, throughout the entire command the remarkable fact was to be
noted that a company of regular cavalry, taking the field against hostile
Indians, had discarded pretty much every item of dress or equipment prescribed
or furnished by the authorities of the United States, and had supplied
themselves with an outfit utterly ununiform, unpicturesque, undeniably slouchy,
but not less undeniably appropriate and serviceable. Not a forage-cap was to be
seen, not a "campaign-hat" of the style then prescribed by a board of officers
that might have known something of hats, but never could have had an idea on the
subject of campaigns. Fancy that black enormity of weighty felt, with flapping
brim well-nigh a foot in width, absorbing the fiery heat of an Arizona sun, and
concentrating the burning rays upon the cranium of its unhappy wearer! No such
head-gear would our troopers suffer in the days when General Crook led them
through the canyons and deserts of that inhospitable Territory. Regardless of
appearances or style himself, seeking only comfort in his dress, the chief
speedily found means to indicate that, in Apache-campaigning at least, it was to
be a case of "_inter arma silent leges_" in dead earnest; for, freely
translated, the old saw read, "No red-tape when Indian-fighting." Of much of
this Lieutenant Billings was only partially informed, and so, as has been said,
he was aghast when he marked the utter absence of uniform and the decidedly
variegated appearance of his troop. Deerskin, buckskin, canvas, and flannels,
leggings, moccasins, and the like, constituted the bill of dress, and old soft
felt hats, originally white, the head-gear. If spurs were worn at all, they were
of the Mexican variety, easy to kick off, but sure to stay on when wanted. Only
two men wore carbine sling-belts, and Mr. Billings was almost ready to hunt up
his captain and inquire if by any possibility the men could be attempting to
"put up a joke on him," when the captain himself appeared, looking little if any
more like the ideal soldier than his men, and the perfectly satisfied expression
on his face as he rode easily around, examining closely the horses of the
command, paying especial attention to their feet and the shoes thereof,
convinced the lieutenant that all was as it was expected to be, if not as it
should be, and he swallowed his surprise and held his peace. Another moment, and
Captain Wayne's troop came filing past in column of twos, looking, if anything,
rougher than his own. "You follow right after Wayne," said Captain Buxton; and
with no further formality Mr. Billings, in a perfunctory sort of way, wheeled
his men to the right by fours, broke into column of twos, and closed up on the
leading troop. Buxton was in high glee on this particular morning in June. He
had done very little Indian scouting, had been but moderately successful in what
he had undertaken, and now, as luck would have it, the necessity arose for
sending something more formidable than a mere detachment down into the Tonto
Basin, in search of a powerful band of Apaches who had broken loose from the
reservation and were taking refuge in the foot-hills of the Black Mesa or among
the wilds of the Sierra Ancha. As senior captain of the two, Buxton became
commander of the entire force,--two well-filled troops of regular cavalry, some
thirty Indian allies as scouts, and a goodly-sized train of pack-mules, with its
full complement of packers, _cargadors_, and blacksmiths. He fully anticipated a
lively fight, possibly a series of them, and a triumphant return to his post,
where hereafter he would be looked up to and quoted as an expert and authority
on Apache-fighting. He knew just where the hostiles lay, and was going straight
to the point to flatten them out forthwith; and so the little command moved off
under admirable auspices and in the best of spirits. It was a four-days' hard
march to the locality where Captain Buxton counted on finding his victims; and
when on the fourth day, rather tired and not particularly enthusiastic, the
command bivouacked along the banks of a mountain-torrent, a safe distance from
the supposed location of the Indian stronghold, he sent forward his Apache
Mojave allies to make a stealthy reconnoissance, feeling confident that soon
after nightfall they would return with the intelligence that the enemy were
lazily resting in their "rancheria," all unsuspicious of his approach, and that
at daybreak he would pounce upon and annihilate them. Soon after nightfall the
scouts did return, but their intelligence was not so gratifying: a small--a
_very_ small--band of renegades had been encamped in that vicinity some weeks
before, but not a "hostile" or sign of a hostile was to be found. Captain Buxton
hardly slept that night, from disappointment and mortification, and when he went
the following day to investigate for himself he found that he had been on a
false scent from the start, and this made him crabbed. A week's hunt through the
mountains resulted in no better luck, and now, having had only fifteen days'
rations at the outset, he was most reluctantly and savagely marching homeward to
report his failure. But Mr. Billings had enjoyed the entire trip. Sleeping in
the open air without other shelter than their blankets afforded, scouting by day
in single file over miles of mere game-trails, up hill and down dale through the
wildest and most dolefully-picturesque scenery he "at least" had ever beheld,
under frowning cliffs and beetling crags, through dense forests of pine and
juniper, through mountain-torrents swollen with the melting snows of the crests
so far above them, through canyons, deep, dark, and gloomy, searching ever for
traces of the foe they were ordered to find and fight forthwith, Mr. Billings
and his men, having no responsibility upon their shoulders, were happy and
healthy as possible, and consequently in small sympathy with their irate leader.
Every afternoon when they halted beside some one of the hundreds of mountain-
brooks that came tumbling down from the gorges of the Black Mesa, the men were
required to look carefully at the horses' backs and feet, for mountain Arizona
is terrible on shoes, equine or human. This had to be done before the herds were
turned out to graze with their guard around them; and often some of the men
would get a wisp of straw or a suitable wipe of some kind, and thoroughly rub
down their steeds. Strolling about among them, as he always did at this time,
our lieutenant had noticed a slim but trimly-built young Irishman whose care of
and devotion to his horse it did him good to see. No matter how long the march,
how severe the fatigue, that horse was always looked after, his grazing-ground
pre-empted by a deftly-thrown picket-pin and lariat which secured to him all the
real estate that could be surveyed within the circle of which the pin was the
centre and the lariat the radius-vector. Between horse and master the closest
comradeship seemed to exist; the trooper had a way of softly singing or talking
to his friend as he rubbed him down, and Mr. Billings was struck with the
expression and taste with which the little soldier--for he was only five feet
five--would render "Molly Bawn" and "Kitty Tyrrell." Except when thus singing or
exchanging confidences with his steed, he was strangely silent and reserved; he
ate his rations among the other men, yet rarely spoke with them, and he would
ride all day through country marvellous for wild beauty and be the only man in
the command who did not allow himself to give vent to some expression of
astonishment or delight. "What is that man's name?" asked Mr. Billings of the
first sergeant one evening. "O'Grady, sir," replied the sergeant, with his
soldierly salute; and a little later, as Captain Buxton was fretfully
complaining to his subaltern of the ill fortune that seemed to overshadow his
best efforts, the latter, thinking to cheer him and to divert his attention from
his trouble, referred to the troop:

"Why, captain, I don't think I ever saw a finer set of men than you have--
anywhere. Now, _there's_ a little fellow who strikes me as being a perfect
light-cavalry soldier." And the lieutenant indicated his young Irishman. "You
don't mean O'Grady?" asked the captain in surprise. "Yes, sir,--the very one."
"Why, he's the worst man in the troop." For a moment Mr. Billings knew not what
to say. His captain had spoken with absolute harshness and dislike in his tone
of the one soldier of all others who seemed to be the most quiet, attentive, and
alert of the troop. He had noticed, too, that the sergeants and the men
generally, in speaking to O'Grady, were wont to fall into a kindlier tone than
usual, and, though they sometimes squabbled among themselves over the choice of
patches of grass for their horses, O'Grady's claim was never questioned, much
less "jumped." Respect for his superior's rank would not permit the lieutenant
to argue the matter; but, desiring to know more about the case, he spoke again:

"I am very sorry to hear it. His care of his horse and his quiet ways impressed
me so favorably." "Oh, yes, d--n him!" broke in Captain Buxton. "Horses and
whiskey are the only things on earth he cares for. As to quiet ways, there isn't
a worse devil at large than O'Grady with a few drinks in him. When I came back
from two years' recruiting detail he was a sergeant in the troop. I never knew
him before, but I soon found he was addicted to drink, and after a while had to
'break' him; and one night when he was raising hell in the quarters, and I
ordered him into the dark cell, he turned on me like a tiger. By Jove! if it
hadn't been for some of the men he would have killed me,--or I him. He was tried
by court-martial, but most of the detail was made up of infantrymen and staff-
officers from Crook's head-quarters, and, by ----! they didn't seem to think it
any sin for a soldier to threaten to cut his captain's heart out, and Crook
himself gave me a sort of a rap in his remarks on the case, and--well, they just
let O'Grady off scot-free between them, gave him some little fine, and did more
harm than good. He's just as surly and insolent now when I speak to him as he
was that night when drunk. Here, I'll show you." And with that Captain Buxton
started off towards the herd, Mr. Billings obediently following, but feeling
vaguely ill at ease. He had never met Captain Buxton before, but letters from
his comrades had prepared him for experiences not altogether pleasant. A good
soldier in some respects, Captain Buxton bore the reputation of having an almost
ungovernable temper, of being at times brutally violent in his language and
conduct towards his men, and, worse yet, of bearing ill-concealed malice, and
"nursing his wrath to keep it warm" against such of his enlisted men as had ever
ventured to appeal for justice. The captain stopped on reaching the outskirts of
the quietly-grazing herd. "Corporal," said he to the non-commissioned officer in
charge, "isn't that O'Grady's horse off there to the left?" "Yes, sir." "Go and
tell O'Grady to come here." The corporal saluted and went off on his errand.
"Now, Mr. Billings," said the captain, "I have repeatedly given orders that my
horses must be side-lined when we are in the hostiles' country. Just come here
to the left." And he walked over towards a handsome, sturdy little California
horse of a bright bay color. "Here, you see, is O'Grady's horse, and not a side-
line: that's his way of obeying orders. More than that, he is never content to
have his horse in among the others, but must always get away outside, just where
he is most apt to be run off by any Indian sharp and quick enough to dare it.
Now, here comes O'Grady. Watch him, if you want to see him in his true light."
Standing beside his superior, Mr. Billings looked towards the approaching
trooper, who, with a quick, springy step, advanced to within a few yards of
them, then stopped short and, erect and in silence, raised his hand in salute,
and with perfectly respectful demeanor looked straight at his captain. In a
voice at once harsh and distinctly audible over the entire bivouac, with
frowning brow and angry eyes, Buxton demanded,--

"O'Grady, where are your side-lines?" "Over with my blankets, sir." "Over with
your blankets, are they? Why in ----, sir, are they not here on your horse,
where they ought to be?" And the captain's voice waxed harsher and louder, and
his manner more threatening. "I understood the captain's orders to be that they
need not go on till sunset," replied the soldier, calmly and respectfully, "and
I don't like to put them on that sore place, sir, until the last moment." "Don't
like to? No sir, I know d--d well you don't like to obey this or any other order
I ever gave, and wherever you find a loop-hole through which to crawl, and you
think you can sneak off unpunished, by ----, sir, I suppose you will go on
disobeying orders. Shut up, sir! not a d--d word!" for tears of mortification
were starting to O'Grady's eyes, and with flushing face and trembling lip the
soldier stood helplessly before his troop-commander, and was striving to say a
word in further explanation. "Go and get your side-lines at once and bring them
here; go at once, sir," shouted the captain; and with a lump in his throat the
trooper saluted, faced about, and walked away. "He's milder-mannered than usual,
d--n him!" said the captain, turning towards his subaltern, who had stood a
silent and pained witness of the scene. "He knows he is in the wrong and has no
excuse; but he'll break out yet. Come! step out, you O'Grady!" he yelled after
the rapidly-walking soldier. "Double time, sir. I can't wait here all night."
And Mr. Billings noted that silence had fallen on the bivouac so full of
soldier-chaff and laughter but a moment before, and that the men of both troops
were intently watching the scene already so painful to him. Obediently O'Grady
took up the "dog-trot" required of him, got his side-lines, and, running back,
knelt beside his horse, and with trembling hands adjusted them, during which
performance Captain Buxton stood over him, and, in a tone that grew more and
more that of a bully as he lashed himself up into a rage, continued his lecture
to the man. The latter finally rose, and, with huge beads of perspiration
starting out on his forehead, faced his captain. "May I say a word, sir?" he
asked. "You may now; but be d--d careful how you say it," was the reply, with a
sneer that would have stung an abject slave into a longing for revenge, and that
grated on Mr. Billings's nerves in a way that made him clinch his fists and
involuntarily grit his teeth. Could it be that O'Grady detected it? One quick,
wistful, half-appealing glance flashed from the Irishman's eyes towards the
subaltern, and then, with evident effort at composure, but with a voice that
trembled with the pent-up sense of wrong and injustice, O'Grady spoke:

"Indeed, sir, I had no thought of neglecting orders. I always care for my horse;
but it wasn't sunset when the captain came out----"

"Not sunset!" broke in Buxton, with an outburst of profanity. "Not sunset! why,
it's well-nigh dark now, sir, and every man in the troop had side-lined his
horse half an hour ago. D--n your insolence, sir! your excuse is worse than your
conduct. Mr. Billings, see to it, sir, that this man walks and leads his horse
in rear of the troop all the way back to the post. I'll see, by ----! whether he
can be taught to obey orders." And with that the captain turned and strode away.
The lieutenant stood for an instant stunned,--simply stunned. Involuntarily he
made a step towards O'Grady; their eyes met; but the restraint of discipline was
upon both. In that brief meeting of their glances, however, the trooper read a
message that was unmistakable. "Lieutenant----" he said, but stopped abruptly,
pointed aloft over the trees to the eastward with his right hand, dashed it
across his eyes, and then, with hurried salute and a choking sort of gurgle in
his throat, he turned and went back to his comrades. Mr. Billings gazed after
the retreating form until it disappeared among the trees by the brook-side; then
he turned to see what was the meaning of the soldier's pointing over towards the
_mesa_ to the east. Down in the deep valley in which the little command had
halted for the night the pall of darkness had indeed begun to settle; the
bivouac-fires in the timber threw a lurid glare upon the groups gathering around
them for supper, and towards the west the rugged upheavals of the Mazatzal range
stood like a black barrier against the glorious hues of a bank of summer cloud.
All in the valley spoke of twilight and darkness: the birds were still, the
voices of the men subdued. So far as local indications were concerned, it _was_
--as Captain Buxton had insisted--almost dark. But square over the gilded tree-
tops to the east, stretching for miles and miles to their right and left, blazed
a vertical wall of rock crested with scrub-oak and pine, every boulder, every
tree, glittering in the radiant light of the invisibly setting sun. O'Grady had
_not_ disobeyed his orders. Noting this, Mr. Billings proceeded to take a
leisurely stroll through the peaceful herd, carefully inspecting each horse as
he passed. As a result of his scrutiny, he found that, while most of the horses
were already encumbered with their annoying hobble, in "A" Troop alone there
were at least a dozen still unfettered, notably the mounts of the non-
commissioned officers and the older soldiers. Like O'Grady, they did not wish to
inflict the side-line upon their steeds until the last moment. Unlike O'Grady,
they had not been called to account for it. When Mr. Billings was summoned to
supper, and he rejoined his brother-officers, it was remarked that he was more
taciturn than usual. After that repast had been appreciatively disposed of, and
the little group with lighted pipes prepared to spend an hour in chat and
contentment, it was observed that Mr. Billings did not take part in the general
talk, but that he soon rose, and, out of ear-shot of the officers' camp-fire,
paced restlessly up and down, with his head bent forward, evidently plunged in
thought. By and by the half-dozen broke up and sought their blankets. Captain
Buxton, somewhat mollified by a good supper, was about rolling into his
"Navajo," when Mr. Billings stepped up:

"Captain, may I ask for information as to the side-line order? After you left
this evening, I found that there must be some misunderstanding about it." "How
so?" said Buxton, shortly. "In this, captain;" and Mr. Billings spoke very
calmly and distinctly. "The first sergeant, several other non-commissioned
officers and men,--more than a dozen, I should say,--did not side-line their
horses until half an hour after you spoke to O'Grady, and the first sergeant
assured me, when I called him to account for it, that your orders were that it
should be done at sunset." "Well, by ----! it was after sunset--at least it was
getting mighty dark--when I sent for that black-guard O'Grady," said Buxton,
impetuously, "and there is no excuse for the rest of them." "It was beginning to
grow dark down in this deep valley, I know, sir; but the tree-tops were in a
broad glare of sunlight while we were at the herd, and those cliffs for half an
hour longer." "Well, Mr. Billings, I don't propose to have any hair-splitting in
the management of my troop," said the captain, manifestly nettled. "It was
practically sunset to us when the light began to grow dim, and my men know it
well enough." And with that he rolled over and turned his back to his subaltern.
Disregarding the broad hint to leave, Mr. Billings again spoke:

"Is it your wish, sir, that any punishment should be imposed on the men who were
equally in fault with O'Grady?" Buxton muttered something unintelligible from
under his blankets. "I did not understand you, sir," said the lieutenant, very
civilly. Buxton savagely propped himself up on one elbow, and blurted out,--

"No, Mr. Billings! no! When I want a man punished I'll give the order myself,
sir." "And is it still your wish, sir, that I make O'Grady walk the rest of the
way?" For a moment Buxton hesitated; his better nature struggled to assert
itself and induce him to undo the injustice of his order; but the "cad" in his
disposition, the weakness of his character, prevailed. It would never do to let
his lieutenant get the upper hand of him, he argued, and so the reply came, and
came angrily. "Yes, of course; he deserves it anyhow, by ----! and it'll do him
good." Without another word Mr. Billings turned on his heel and left him. The
command returned to garrison, shaved its stubbly beard of two weeks' growth, and
resumed its uniform and the routine duties of the post. Three days only had it
been back when Mr. Billings, marching on as officer of the day, and receiving
the prisoners from his predecessor, was startled to hear the list of names wound
up with "O'Grady," and when that name was called there was no response. The old
officer of the day looked up inquiringly: "Where is O'Grady, sergeant?" "In the
cell, sir, unable to come out." "O'Grady was confined by Captain Buxton's order
late last night," said Captain Wayne, "and I fancy the poor fellow has been
drinking heavily this time." A few minutes after, the reliefs being told off,
the prisoners sent out to work, and the officers of the day, new and old, having
made their reports to the commanding officer, Mr. Billings returned to the
guard-house, and, directing his sergeant to accompany him, proceeded to make a
deliberate inspection of the premises. The guard-room itself was neat, clean,
and dry; the garrison prison-room was well ventilated, and tidy as such rooms
ever can be made; the Indian prison-room, despite the fact that it was empty and
every shutter was thrown wide open to the breeze, had that indefinable,
suffocating odor which continued aboriginal occupancy will give to any
apartment; but it was the cells Mr. Billings desired to see, and the sergeant
led him to a row of heavily-barred doors of rough unplaned timber, with a little
grating in each, and from one of these gratings there peered forth a pair of
feverishly-glittering eyes, and a face, not bloated and flushed, as with recent
and heavy potations, but white, haggard, twitching, and a husky voice in piteous
appeal addressed the sergeant:

"Oh, for God's sake, Billy, get me something, or it'll kill me!" "Hush,
O'Grady," said the sergeant: "here's the officer of the day." Mr. Billings took
one look at the wan face only dimly visible in that prison-light, for the poor
little man shrank back as he recognized the form of his lieutenant:

"Open that door, sergeant." With alacrity the order was obeyed, and the heavy
door swung back upon its hinges. "O'Grady," said the officer of the day, in a
tone gentle as that he would have employed in speaking to a woman, "come out
here to me. I'm afraid you are sick." Shaking, trembling, twitching in every
limb, with wild, dilated eyes and almost palsied step, O'Grady came out. "Look
to him a moment, sergeant," said Mr. Billings, and, bending low, he stepped into
the cell. The atmosphere was stifling, and in another instant he backed out into
the hall-way. "Sergeant, was it by the commanding officer's order that O'Grady
was put in there?" "No, sir; Captain Buxton's." "See that he is not returned
there during my tour, unless the orders come from Major Stannard. Bring O'Grady
into the prison-room." Here in the purer air and brighter light he looked
carefully over the poor fellow, as the latter stood before him quivering from
head to foot and hiding his face in his shaking hands. Then the lieutenant took
him gently by the arm and led him to a bunk:

"O'Grady, man, lie down here. I'm going to get something that will help you.
Tell me one thing: how long had you been drinking before you were confined?"
"About forty-eight hours, sir, off and on." "How long since you ate anything?"
"I don't know, sir; not for two days, I think." "Well, try and lie still. I'm
coming back to you in a very few minutes." And with that Mr. Billings strode
from the room, leaving O'Grady, dazed, wonder-stricken, gazing stupidly after
him. The lieutenant went straight to his quarters, took a goodly-sized goblet
from the painted pine sideboard, and with practised hand proceeded to mix
therein a beverage in which granulated sugar, Angostura bitters, and a few drops
of lime-juice entered as minor ingredients, and the coldest of spring-water and
a brimming measure of whiskey as constituents of greater quality and quantity.
Filling with this mixture a small leather-covered flask, and stowing it away
within the breast-pocket of his blouse, he returned to the guard-house, musing
as he went, "'If this be treason,' said Patrick Henry, 'make the most of it.' If
this be conduct prejudicial, etc., say I, do your d--dest. That man would be in
the horrors of jim-jams in half an hour more if it were not for this." And so
saying to himself, he entered the prison-room, called to the sergeant to bring
him some cold water, and then approached O'Grady, who rose unsteadily and strove
to stand attention, but the effort was too much, and again he covered his face
with his arms, and threw himself in utter misery at the foot of the bunk. Mr.
Billings drew the flask from his pocket, and, touching O'Grady's shoulder,
caused him to raise his head:

"Drink this, my lad. I would not give it to you at another time, but you need it
now." Eagerly it was seized, eagerly drained, and then, after he had swallowed a
long draught of the water, O'Grady slowly rose to his feet, looking, with eyes
rapidly softening and losing their wild glare, upon the young officer who stood
before him. Once or twice he passed his hands across his forehead, as though to
sweep away the cobwebs that pressed upon his brain, but for a moment he did not
essay a word. Little by little the color crept back to his cheek; and, noting
this, Mr. Billings smiled very quietly, and said, "Now, O'Grady, lie down; you
will be able to sleep now until the men come in at noon; then you shall have
another drink, and you'll be able to eat what I send you. If you cannot sleep,
call the sergeant of the guard; or if you want anything, I'll come to you."
Then, with tears starting to his eyes, the soldier found words: "I thank the
lieutenant. If I live a thousand years, sir, this will never be forgotten,--
never, sir! I'd have gone crazy without your help, sir." Mr. Billings held out
his hand, and, taking that of his prisoner, gave it a cordial grip: "That's all
right, O'Grady. Try to sleep now, and we'll pull you through. Good-by, for the
present." And, with a heart lighter, somehow, than it had been of late, the
lieutenant left. At noon that day, when the prisoners came in from labor and the
officer's of the day inspected their general condition before permitting them to
go to their dinner, the sergeant of the guard informed him that O'Grady had
slept quietly almost all the morning, but was then awake and feeling very much
better, though still weak and nervous. "Do you think he can walk over to my
quarters?" asked Mr. Billings. "He will try it, sir, or anything the lieutenant
wants him to try." "Then send him over in about ten minutes." Home once more,
Mr. Billings started a tiny blaze in his oil-stove, and soon had a kettle of
water boiling merrily. Sharp to time a member of the guard tapped at the door,
and, on being bidden "Come in," entered, ushering in O'Grady; but meantime, by
the aid of a little pot of meat-juice and some cayenne pepper, a glass of hot
soup or beef-tea had been prepared, and, with some dainty slices of potted
chicken and the accompaniments of a cup of fragrant tea and some ship-biscuit,
was in readiness on a little table in the back room. Telling the sentinel to
remain in the shade on the piazza, the lieutenant proceeded first to make
O'Grady sit down in a big wicker arm-chair, for the man in his broken condition
was well-nigh exhausted by his walk across the glaring parade in the heat of an
Arizona noonday sun. Then he mixed and administered the counterpart of the
beverage he had given his prisoner-patient in the morning, only in point of
potency it was an evident falling off, but sufficient for the purpose, and in a
few minutes O'Grady was able to swallow his breakfast with evident relish,
meekly and unhesitatingly obeying every suggestion of his superior. His
breakfast finished, O'Grady was then conducted into a cool, darkened apartment,
a back room in the lieutenant's quarters. "Now, pull off your boots and outer
clothing, man, spread yourself on that bed, and go to sleep, if you can. If you
can't, and you want to read, there are books and papers on that shelf; pin up
the blanket on the window, and you'll have light enough. You shall not be
disturbed, and I know you won't attempt to leave." "Indeed, sir, I won't," began
O'Grady, eagerly; but the lieutenant had vanished, closing the door after him,
and a minute later the soldier had thrown himself upon the cool, white bed, and
was crying like a tired child. Three or four weeks after this incident, to the
small regret of his troop and the politely-veiled indifference of the
commissioned element of the garrison, Captain Buxton concluded to avail himself
of a long-deferred "leave," and turned over his company property to Mr. Billings
in a condition that rendered it necessary for him to do a thing that "ground"
him, so to speak: he had to ask several favors of his lieutenant, between whom
and himself there had been no cordiality since the episode of the bivouac, and
an open rupture since Mr. Billings's somewhat eventful tour as officer of the
day, which has just been described. It appeared that O'Grady had been absent
from no duty (there were no drills in that scorching June weather), but that,
yielding to the advice of his comrades, who knew that he had eaten nothing for
two days and was drinking steadily into a condition that would speedily bring
punishment upon him, he had asked permission to be sent to the hospital, where,
while he could get no liquor, there would be no danger attendant upon his sudden
stop of all stimulant. The first sergeant carried his request with the sick-book
to Captain Buxton, O'Grady meantime managing to take two or three more pulls at
the bottle, and Buxton, instead of sending him to the hospital, sent for him,
inspected him, and did what he had no earthly authority to do, directed the
sergeant of the guard to confine him at once in the dark cell. "It will be no
punishment as he is now," said Buxton to himself, "but it will be hell when he
wakes." And so it had been; and far worse it probably would have been but for
Mr. Billings's merciful interference. Expecting to find his victim in a
condition bordering upon the abject and ready to beg for mercy at any sacrifice
of pluck or pride, Buxton had gone to the guard-house soon after retreat and
told the sergeant that he desired to see O'Grady, if the man was fit to come
out. What was his surprise when the soldier stepped forth in his trimmest
undress uniform, erect and steady, and stood unflinchingly before him!--a day's
rest and quiet, a warm bath, wholesome and palatable food, careful nursing, and
the kind treatment he had received having brought him round with a sudden turn
that he himself could hardly understand. "How is this?" thundered Buxton. "I
ordered you kept in the dark cell." "The officer of the day ordered him
released, sir," said the sergeant of the guard. And Buxton, choking with rage,
stormed into the mess-room, where the younger officers were at dinner, and,
regardless of the time, place, or surroundings, opened at once upon his
subaltern:

"Mr. Billings, by whose authority did you release O'Grady from the dark cell?"
Mr. Billings calmly applied his napkin to his moustache, and then as calmly
replied, "By my own, Captain Buxton." "By ----! sir, you exceeded your
authority." "Not at all, captain; on the contrary, you exceeded yours." At this
Buxton flew into a rage that seemed to deprive him of all control over his
language. Oaths and imprecations poured from his lips; he raved at Billings,
despite the efforts of the officers to quiet him, despite the adjutant's threat
to report his language at once to the commanding officer. Mr. Billings paid no
attention whatever to his accusations, but went on eating his dinner with an
appearance of serenity that only added fuel to his captain's fire. Two or three
officers rose and left the table in disgust, and just how far the thing might
have gone cannot be accurately told, for in less than three minutes there came a
quick, bounding step on the piazza, the clank and rattle of a sabre, and the
adjutant fairly sprang back into the room:

"Captain Buxton, you will go at once to your quarters in close arrest, by order
of Major Stannard." Buxton knew his colonel and that little fire-eater of an
adjutant too well to hesitate an instant. Muttering imprecations on everybody,
he went. The next morning, O'Grady was released and returned to duty. Two days
later, after a long and private interview with his commanding officer, Captain
Buxton appeared with him at the officers' mess at dinner-time, made a formal and
complete apology to Lieutenant Billings for his offensive language, and to the
mess generally for his misconduct; and so the affair blew over; and, soon after,
Buxton left, and Mr. Billings became commander of Troop "A." And now, whatever
might have been his reputation as to sobriety before, Private O'Grady became a
marked man for every soldierly virtue. Week after week he was to be seen every
fourth or fifth day, when his guard tour came, reporting to the commanding
officer for duty as "orderly," the nattiest, trimmest soldier on the detail. "I
always said," remarked Captain Wayne, "that Buxton alone was responsible for
that man's downfall; and this proves it. O'Grady has all the instincts of a
gentleman about him, and now that he has a gentleman over him he is himself
again." One night, after retreat-parade, there was cheering and jubilee in the
quarters of Troop "A." Corporal Quinn had been discharged by expiration of term
of service, and Private O'Grady was decorated with his chevrons. When October
came, the company muster-roll showed that he had won back his old grade; and the
garrison knew no better soldier, no more intelligent, temperate, trustworthy
non-commissioned officer, than Sergeant O'Grady. In some way or other the story
of the treatment resorted to by his amateur medical officer had leaked out.
Whether faulty in theory or not, it was crowned with the verdict of success in
practice; and, with the strong sense of humor which pervades all organizations
wherein the Celt is represented as a component part, Mr. Billings had been
lovingly dubbed "Doctor" by his men, and there was one of their number who would
have gone through fire and water for him. One night some herdsmen from up the
valley galloped wildly into the post. The Apaches had swooped down, run off
their cattle, killed one of the cowboys, and scared off the rest. At daybreak
the next morning Lieutenant Billings, with Troop "A" and about a dozen Indian
scouts, was on the trail, with orders to pursue, recapture the cattle, and
punish the marauders. To his disgust, Mr. Billings found that his allies were
not of the tribes who had served with him in previous expeditions. All the
trusty Apache Mojaves and Hualpais were off with other commands in distant parts
of the Territory. He had to take just what the agent could give him at the
reservation,--some Apache Yumas, who were total strangers to him. Within forty-
eight hours four had deserted and gone back; the others proved worthless as
trailers, doubtless intentionally, and had it not been for the keen eye of
Sergeant O'Grady it would have been impossible to keep up the pursuit by night;
but keep it up they did, and just at sunset, one sharp autumn evening, away up
in the mountains, the advance caught sight of the cattle grazing along the
shores of a placid little lake, and, in less time than it takes to write it, Mr.
Billings and his command tore down upon the quarry, and, leaving a few men to
"round up" the herd, were soon engaged in a lively running fight with the
fleeing Apaches which lasted until dark, when the trumpet sounded the recall,
and, with horses somewhat blown, but no casualties of importance, the command
reassembled and marched back to the grazing-ground by the lake. Here a hearty
supper was served out, the horses were rested, then given a good "feed" of
barley, and at ten o'clock Mr. Billings with his second lieutenant and some
twenty men pushed ahead in the direction taken by the Indians, leaving the rest
of the men under experienced non-commissioned officers to drive the cattle back
to the valley. That night the conduct of the Apache Yuma scouts was
incomprehensible. Nothing would induce them to go ahead or out on the flanks;
they cowered about the rear of column, yet declared that the enemy could not be
hereabouts. At two in the morning Mr. Billings found himself well through a pass
in the mountains, high peaks rising to his right and left, and a broad valley in
front. Here he gave the order to unsaddle and camp for the night. At daybreak
all were again on the alert: the search for the trail was resumed. Again the
Indians refused to go out without the troops; but the men themselves found the
tracks of Tonto moccasins along the bed of a little stream purling through the
canyon, and presently indications that they had made the ascent of the mountain
to the south. Leaving a guard with his horses and pack-mules, the lieutenant
ordered up his men, and soon the little command was silently picking its way
through rock and boulder, scrub-oak and tangled juniper and pine. Rougher and
steeper grew the ascent; more and more the Indians cowered, huddling together in
rear of the soldiers. Twice Mr. Billings signalled a halt, and, with his
sergeants, fairly drove the scouts up to the front and ordered them to hunt for
signs. In vain they protested, "No sign,--no Tonto here," their very looks
belied them, and the young commander ordered the search to be continued. In
their eagerness the men soon leaped ahead of the wretched allies, and the latter
fell back in the same huddled group as before. After half an hour of this sort
of work, the party came suddenly upon a point whence it was possible to see much
of the face of the mountain they were scaling. Cautioning his men to keep within
the concealment afforded by the thick timber, Mr. Billings and his comrade-
lieutenant crept forward and made a brief reconnoissance. It was evident at a
glance that the farther they went the steeper grew the ascent and the more
tangled the low shrubbery, for it was little better, until, near the summit,
trees and underbrush, and herbage of every description, seemed to cease
entirely, and a vertical cliff of jagged rocks stood sentinel at the crest, and
stretched east and west the entire length of the face of the mountain. "By Jove,
Billings! if they are on top of that it will be a nasty place to rout them out
of," observed the junior. "I'm going to find out where they are, anyhow,"
replied the other. "Now those infernal Yumas have _got_ to scout, whether they
want to or not. You stay here with the men, ready to come the instant I send or
signal." In vain the junior officer protested against being left behind; he was
directed to send a small party to see if there were an easier way up the hill-
side farther to the west, but to keep the main body there in readiness to move
whichever way they might be required. Then, with Sergeant O'Grady and the
reluctant Indians, Mr. Billings pushed up to the left front, and was soon out of
sight of his command. For fifteen minutes he drove his scouts, dispersed in
skirmish order, ahead of him, but incessantly they sneaked behind rocks and
trees out of his sight; twice he caught them trying to drop back, and at last,
losing all patience, he sprang forward, saying, "Then _come_ on, you whelps, if
you cannot lead," and he and the sergeant hurried ahead. Then the Yumas huddled
together again and slowly followed. Fifteen minutes more, and Mr. Billings found
himself standing on the edge of a broad shelf of the mountain,--a shelf covered
with huge boulders of rock tumbled there by storm and tempest, riven by
lightning-stroke or the slow disintegration of nature from the bare, glaring,
precipitous ledge he had marked from below. East and west it seemed to stretch,
forbidding and inaccessible. Turning to the sergeant, Mr. Billings directed him
to make his way off to the right and see if there were any possibility of
finding a path to the summit; then looking back down the side, and marking his
Indians cowering under the trees some fifty yards away, he signalled "come up,"
and was about moving farther to his left to explore the shelf, when something
went whizzing past his head, and, embedding itself in a stunted oak behind him,
shook and quivered with the shock,--a Tonto arrow. Only an instant did he see
it, photographed as by electricity upon the retina, when with a sharp stinging
pang and whirring "whist" and thud a second arrow, better aimed, tore through
the flesh and muscles just at the outer corner of his left eye, and glanced away
down the hill. With one spring he gained the edge of the shelf, and shouted to
the scouts to come on. Even as he did so, bang! bang! went the reports of two
rifles among the rocks, and, as with one accord, the Apache Yumas turned tail
and rushed back down the hill, leaving him alone in the midst of hidden foes.
Stung by the arrow, bleeding, but not seriously hurt, he crouched behind a rock,
with carbine at ready, eagerly looking for the first sign of an enemy. The whiz
of another arrow from the left drew his eyes thither, and quick as a flash his
weapon leaped to his shoulder, the rocks rang with its report, and one of the
two swarthy forms he saw among the boulders tumbled over out of sight; but even
as he threw back his piece to reload, a rattling volley greeted him, the carbine
dropped to the ground, a strange, numbed sensation had seized his shoulder, and
his right arm, shattered by a rifle-bullet, hung dangling by the flesh, while
the blood gushed forth in a torrent. Defenceless, he sprang back to the edge;
there was nothing for it now but to run until he could meet his men. Well he
knew they would be tearing up the mountain to the rescue. Could he hold out till
then? Behind him with shout and yells came the Apaches, arrow and bullet
whistling over his head; before him lay the steep descent,--jagged rocks, thick,
tangled bushes: it was a desperate chance; but he tried it, leaping from rock to
rock, holding his helpless arm in his left hand; then his foot slipped: he
plunged heavily forward; quickly the nerves threw out their signal for support
to the muscles of the shattered member, but its work was done, its usefulness
destroyed. Missing its support, he plunged heavily forward, and went crashing
down among the rocks eight or ten feet below, cutting a jagged gash in his
forehead, while the blood rained down into his eyes and blinded him; but he
struggled up and on a few yards more; then another fall, and, well-nigh
senseless, utterly exhausted, he lay groping for his revolver,--it had fallen
from its case. Then--all was over. Not yet; not yet. His ear catches the sound
of a voice he knows well,--a rich, ringing, Hibernian voice it is: "Lieutenant,
_lieutenant_! _Where_ are ye?" and he has strength enough to call, "This way,
sergeant, this way," and in another moment O'Grady, with blended anguish and
gratitude in his face, is bending over him. "Oh, thank God you're not kilt,
sir!" (for when excited O'Grady _would_ relapse into the brogue); "but are ye
much hurt?" "Badly, sergeant, since I can't fight another round." "Then put your
arm round my neck, sir," and in a second the little Patlander has him on his
brawny back. But with only one arm by which to steady himself, the other hanging
loose, the torture is inexpressible, for O'Grady is now bounding down the hill,
leaping like a goat from rock to rock, while the Apaches with savage yells come
tearing after them. Twice, pausing, O'Grady lays his lieutenant down in the
shelter of some large boulder, and, facing about, sends shot after shot up the
hill, checking the pursuit and driving the cowardly footpads to cover. Once he
gives vent to a genuine Kilkenny "hurroo" as a tall Apache drops his rifle and
plunges head foremost among the rocks with his hands convulsively clasped to his
breast. Then the sergeant once more picks up his wounded comrade, despite pleas,
orders, or imprecations, and rushes on. "I cannot stand it, O'Grady. Go and save
yourself. You _must_ do it. I _order_ you to do it." Every instant the shots and
arrows whiz closer, but the sergeant never winces, and at last, panting,
breathless, having carried his chief full three hundred yards down the rugged
slope, he gives out entirely, but with a gasp of delight points down among the
trees:

"Here come the boys, sir." Another moment, and the soldiers are rushing up the
rocks beside them, their carbines ringing like merry music through the frosty
air, and the Apaches are scattering in every direction. "Old man, are you much
hurt?" is the whispered inquiry his brother-officer can barely gasp for want of
breath, and, reassured by the faint grin on Mr. Billings's face, and a barely
audible "Arm busted,--that's all; pitch in and use them up," he pushes on with
his men. In ten minutes the affair is ended. The Indians have been swept away
like chaff; the field and the wounded they have abandoned are in the hands of
the troopers; the young commander's life is saved; and then, and for long after,
the hero of the day is Buxton's _bete noire_, "the worst man in the troop." VAN.
He was the evolution of a military horse-trade,--one of those periodical
swappings required of his dragoons by Uncle Sam on those rare occasions when a
regiment that has been dry-rotting half a decade in Arizona is at last relieved
by one from the Plains. How it happened that we of the Fifth should have kept
him from the clutches of those sharp horse-fanciers of the Sixth is more than I
know. Regimental tradition had it that we got him from the Third Cavalry when it
came our turn to go into exile in 1871. He was the victim of some temporary
malady at the time,--one of those multitudinous ills to which horse-flesh is
heir,--or he never would have come to us. It was simply impossible that anybody
who knew anything about horses should trade off such a promising young racer so
long as there remained an unpledged pay-account in the officers' mess. Possibly
the arid climate of Arizona had disagreed with him and he had gone amiss, as
would the mechanism of some of the best watches in the regiment, unable to stand
the strain of anything so hot and high and dry. Possibly the Third was so
overjoyed at getting out of Arizona on any terms that they would gladly have
left their eye-teeth in pawn. Whatever may have been the cause, the transfer was
an accomplished fact, and Van was one of some seven hundred quadrupeds, of
greater or less value, which became the property of the Fifth Regiment of
Cavalry, U.S.A., in lawful exchange for a like number of chargers left in the
stables along the recently-built Union Pacific to await the coming of their new
riders from the distant West. We had never met in those days, Van and I.
"Compadres" and chums as we were destined to become, we were utterly unknown and
indifferent to each other; but in point of regimental reputation at the time,
Van had decidedly the best of it. He was a celebrity at head-quarters, I a
subaltern at an isolated post. He had apparently become acclimated, and was
rapidly winning respect for himself and dollars for his backers; I was winning
neither for anybody, and doubtless losing both,--they go together, somehow. Van
was living on metaphorical clover down near Tucson; I was roughing it out on the
rocks of the Mogollon. Each after his own fashion served out his time in the
grim old Territory, and at last "came marching home again;" and early in the
summer of the Centennial year, and just in the midst of the great Sioux war of
1876, Van and I made each other's acquaintance. What I liked about him was the
air of thoroughbred ease with which he adapted himself to his surroundings. He
was in swell society on the occasion of our first meeting, being bestridden by
the colonel of the regiment. He was dressed and caparisoned in the height of
martial fashion; his clear eyes, glistening coat, and joyous bearing spoke of
the perfection of health; his every glance and movement told of elastic vigor
and dauntless spirit. He was a horse with a pedigree,--let alone any self-made
reputation,--and he knew it; more than that, he knew that I was charmed at the
first greeting; probably he liked it, possibly he liked me. What he saw in me I
never discovered. Van, though demonstrative eventually, was reticent and little
given to verbal flattery. It was long indeed before any degree of intimacy was
established between us: perhaps it might never have come but for the strange and
eventful campaign on which we were so speedily launched. Probably we might have
continued on our original status of dignified and distant acquaintance. As a
member of the colonel's household he could have nothing in common with me or
mine, and his acknowledgment of the introduction of my own charger--the
cavalryman's better half--was of that airy yet perfunctory politeness which is
of the club clubby. Forager, my gray, had sought acquaintance in his impulsive
frontier fashion when summoned to the presence of the regimental commander, and,
ranging alongside to permit the shake of the hand with which the colonel had
honored his rider, he himself had with equine confidence addressed Van, and Van
had simply continued his dreamy stare over the springy prairie and taken no
earthly notice of him. Forager and I had just joined regimental head-quarters
for the first time, as was evident, and we were both "fresh." It was not until
the colonel good-naturedly stroked the glossy brown neck of his pet and said,
"Van, old boy, this is Forager, of 'K' Troop," that Van considered it the proper
thing to admit my fellow to the outer edge of his circle of acquaintance. My
gray thought him a supercilious snob, no doubt, and hated him. He hated him more
before the day was half over, for the colonel decided to gallop down the valley
to look at some new horses that had just come, and invited me to go. Colonels'
invitations are commands, and we went, Forager and I, though it was weariness
and vexation of spirit to both. Van and his rider flew easily along, bounding
over the springy turf with long, elastic stride, horse and rider taking the
rapid motion as an every-day matter, in a cool, imperturbable, this-is-the-way-
we-always-do-it style; while my poor old troop-horse, in answer to pressing knee
and pricking spur, strove with panting breath and jealously bursting heart to
keep alongside. The foam flew from his fevered jaws and flecked the smooth flank
of his apparently unconscious rival; and when at last we returned to camp, while
Van, without a turned hair or an abnormal heave, coolly nodded off to his
stable, poor Forager, blown, sweating, and utterly used up, gazed revengefully
after him an instant and then reproachfully at me. He had done his best, and all
to no purpose. That confounded clean-cut, supercilious beast had worn him out
and never tried a spurt. It was then that I began to make inquiries about that
airy fellow Van, and I soon found he had a history. Like other histories, it may
have been a mere codification of lies; but the men of the Fifth were ready to
answer for its authenticity, and Van fully looked the character they gave him.
He was now in his prime. He had passed the age of tell-tale teeth and was going
on between eight and nine, said the knowing ones, but he looked younger and felt
younger. He was at heart as full of fun and frolic as any colt, but the
responsibilities of his position weighed upon him at times and lent to his
elastic step the grave dignity that should mark the movements of the first horse
of the regiment. And then Van was a born aristocrat. He was not impressive in
point of size; he was rather small, in fact; but there was that in his bearing
and demeanor that attracted instant attention. He was beautifully built,--lithe,
sinewy, muscular, with powerful shoulders and solid haunches; his legs were what
Oscar Wilde might have called poems, and with better reason than when he applied
the epithet to those of Henry Irving: they were straight, slender, and destitute
of those heterodox developments at the joints that render equine legs as hideous
deformities as knee-sprung trousers of the present mode. His feet and pasterns
were shapely and dainty as those of the _senoritas_ (only for pastern read
ankle) who so admired him on _festa_ days at Tucson, and who won such stores of
_dulces_ from the scowling gallants who had with genuine Mexican pluck backed
the Sonora horses at the races. His color was a deep, dark chocolate-brown; a
most unusual tint, but Van was proud of its oddity, and his long, lean head, his
pretty little pointed ears, his bright, flashing eye and sensitive nostril, one
and all spoke of spirit and intelligence. A glance at that horse would tell the
veriest greenhorn that speed, bottom, and pluck were all to be found right
there; and he had not been in the regiment a month before the knowing ones were
hanging about the Mexican sports and looking out for a chance for a match; and
Mexicans, like Indians, are consummate horse-racers. Not with the "greasers"
alone had tact and diplomacy to be brought into play. Van, though invoiced as a
troop-horse sick, had attracted the attention of the colonel from the very
start, and the colonel had speedily caused him to be transferred to his own
stable, where, carefully tended, fed, groomed, and regularly exercised, he
speedily gave evidence of the good there was in him. The colonel rarely rode in
those days, and cavalry-duties in garrison were few. The regiment was in the
mountains most of the time, hunting Apaches, but Van had to be exercised every
day; and exercised he was. "Jeff," the colonel's orderly, would lead him
sedately forth from his paddock every morning about nine, and ride demurely off
towards the quartermaster's stables in rear of the garrison. Keen eyes used to
note that Van had a way of sidling along at such times as though his heels were
too impatient to keep at their appropriate distance behind the head, and
"Jeff's" hand on the bit was very firm, light as it was. "Bet you what you like
those 'L' Company fellows are getting Van in training for a race," said the
quartermaster to the adjutant one bright morning, and the chuckle with which the
latter received the remark was an indication that the news was no news to him.
"If old Coach don't find it out too soon, some of these swaggering _caballeros_
around here are going to lose their last winnings," was his answer. And, true to
their cavalry instincts, neither of the staff-officers saw fit to follow Van and
his rider beyond the gate to the _corrals_. Once there, however, Jeff would
bound off quick as a cat, Van would be speedily taken in charge by a squad of
old dragoon sergeants, his cavalry bridle and saddle exchanged for a light
racing-rig, and Master Mickey Lanigan, son and heir of the regimental saddle-
sergeant, would be hoisted into his throne, and then Van would be led off, all
plunging impatience now, to an improvised race-track across the _arroyo_, where
he would run against his previous record, and where old horses from the troop-
stables would be spurred into occasional spurts with the champion, while all the
time vigilant "non-coms" would be thrown out as pickets far and near, to warn
off prying Mexican eyes and give notice of the coming of officers. The colonel
was always busy in his office at that hour, and interruptions never came. But
the race did, and more than one race, too, occurring on Sundays, as Mexican
races will, and well-nigh wrecking the hopes of the garrison on one occasion
because of the colonel's sudden freak of holding a long mounted inspection on
that day. Had he ridden Van for two hours under his heavy weight and housings
that morning, all would have been lost. There was terror at Tucson when the
cavalry trumpets blew the call for mounted inspection, full dress, that placid
Sunday morning, and the sporting sergeants were well-nigh crazed. Not an instant
was to be lost. Jeff rushed to the stable, and in five minutes had Van's near
fore foot enveloped in a huge poultice, much to Van's amaze and disgust, and
when the colonel came down,

Booted and spurred and prepared for a ride,

there stood Jeff in martial solemnity, holding the colonel's other horse, and
looking, as did the horse, the picture of dejection. "What'd you bring me that
infernal old hearse-horse for?" said the colonel. "Where's Van?" "In the stable,
dead lame, general," said Jeff, with face of woe, but with diplomatic use of the
brevet. "Can't put his nigh fore foot to the ground, sir. I've got it poulticed,
sir, and he'll be all right in a day or two----"

"Sure it ain't a nail?" broke in the colonel, to whom nails in the foot were
sources of perennial dread. "Perfectly sure, general," gasped Jeff. "D--d sure!"
he added, in a tone of infinite relief, as the colonel rode out on the broad
parade. "'Twould 'a' been nails in the coffins of half the Fifth Cavalry if it
_had_ been." But that afternoon, while the colonel was taking his siesta, half
the populace of the good old Spanish town of Tucson was making the air blue with
_carambas_ when Van came galloping under the string an easy winner over half a
score of Mexican steeds. The "dark horse" became a notoriety, and for once in
its history head-quarters of the Fifth Cavalry felt the forthcoming visit of the
paymaster to be an object of indifference. Van won other races in Arizona. No
more betting could be got against him around Tucson; but the colonel went off on
leave, and he was borrowed down at Camp Bowie awhile, and then transferred to
Crittenden,--only temporarily, of course, for no one at head-quarters would part
with him for good. Then, when the regiment made its homeward march across the
continent in 1875, Van somehow turned up at the _festa_ races at Albuquerque and
Santa Fe, though the latter was off the line of march by many miles. Then he
distinguished himself at Pueblo by winning a handicap sweepstakes where the odds
were heavy against him. And so it was that when I met Van at Fort Hays in May,
1876, he was a celebrity. Even then they were talking of getting him down to
Dodge City to run against some horses on the Arkansaw; but other and graver
matters turned up. Van had run his last race. Early that spring, or rather late
in the winter, a powerful expedition had been sent to the north of Fort
Fetterman in search of the hostile bands led by that dare-devil Sioux chieftain
Crazy Horse. On "Patrick's Day in the morning," with the thermometer indicating
30 deg. below, and in the face of a biting wind from the north and a blazing
glare from the sheen of the untrodden snow, the cavalry came in sight of the
Indian encampment down in the valley of Powder River. The fight came off then
and there, and, all things considered, Crazy Horse got the best of it. He and
his people drew away farther north to join other roving bands. The troops fell
back to Fetterman to get a fresh start; and when spring fairly opened, old "Gray
Fox," as the Indians called General Crook, marched a strong command up to the
Big Horn Mountains, determined to have it out with Crazy Horse and settle the
question of supremacy before the end of the season. Then all the unoccupied
Indians in the North decided to take a hand. All or most of them were bound by
treaty obligations to keep the peace with the government that for years past had
fed, clothed, and protected them. Nine-tenths of those who rushed to the rescue
of Crazy Horse and his people had not the faintest excuse for their breach of
faith; but it requires neither eloquence nor excuse to persuade the average
Indian to take the war-path. The reservations were beset by vehement old
strifemongers preaching a crusade against the whites, and by early June there
must have been five thousand eager young warriors, under such leaders as Crazy
Horse, Gall, Little Big Man, and all manner of Wolves, Bears, and Bulls, and
prominent among the later that head-devil, scheming, lying, wire-pulling, big-
talker-but-no-fighter, Sitting Bull,--"Tatanka-e-Yotanka",--five thousand fierce
and eager Indians, young and old, swarming through the glorious upland between
the Big Horn and the Yellowstone, and more a-coming. Crook had reached the head-
waters of Tongue River with perhaps twelve hundred cavalry and infantry, and
found that something must be done to shut off the rush of reinforcements from
the southeast. Then it was that we of the Fifth, far away in Kansas, were
hurried by rail through Denver to Cheyenne, marched thence to the Black Hills to
cut the trails from the great reservations of Red Cloud and Spotted Tail to the
disputed ground of the Northwest; and here we had our own little personal tussle
with the Cheyennes, and induced them to postpone their further progress towards
Sitting Bull and to lead us back to the reservation. It was here, too, we heard
how Crazy Horse had pounced on Crook's columns on the bluffs of the Rosebud that
sultry morning of the 17th of June and showed the Gray Fox that he and his
people were too weak in numbers to cope with them. It was here, too, worse luck,
we got the tidings of the dread disaster of the Sunday one week later, and
listened in awed silence to the story of Custer's mad attack on ten times his
weight in foes--and the natural result. Then came our orders to hasten to the
support of Crook, and so it happened that July found us marching for the storied
range of the Big Horn, and the first week in August landed us, blistered and
burned with sun-glare and stifling alkali-dust, in the welcoming camp of Crook.
Then followed the memorable campaign of 1876. I do not mean to tell its story
here. We set out with ten days' rations on a chase that lasted ten weeks. We
roamed some eighteen hundred miles over range and prairie, over "bad lands" and
worse waters. We wore out some Indians, a good many soldiers, and a great many
horses. We sometimes caught the Indians, and sometimes they caught us. It was
hot, dry summer weather when we left our wagons, tents, and extra clothing; it
was sharp and freezing before we saw them again; and meantime, without a rag of
canvas or any covering to our backs except what summer-clothing we had when we
started, we had tramped through the valleys of the Rosebud, Tongue, and Powder
Rivers, had loosened the teeth of some men with scurvy before we struck the
Yellowstone, had weeded out the wounded and ineffective there and sent them to
the East by river, had taken a fresh start and gone rapidly on in pursuit of the
scattering bands, had forded the Little Missouri near where the Northern Pacific
now spans the stream, run out of rations entirely at the head of Heart River,
and still stuck to the trail and the chase, headed southward over rolling,
treeless prairies, and for eleven days and nights of pelting, pitiless rain
dragged our way through the bad-lands, meeting and fighting the Sioux two lively
days among the rocks of Slim Buttes, subsisting meantime partly on what game we
could pick up, but mainly upon our poor, famished, worn-out, staggering horses.
It is hard truth for cavalryman to tell, but the choice lay between them and our
boots and most of us had no boots left by the time we sighted the Black Hills.
Once there, we found provisions and plenty; but never, I venture to say, never
was civilized army in such a plight as was the command of General George Crook
when his brigade of regulars halted on the north bank of the Belle Fourche in
September, 1876. Officers and men were ragged, haggard, half starved, worn down
to mere skin and bone; and the horses,--ah, well, only half of them were left:
hundreds had dropped starved and exhausted on the line of march, and dozens had
been killed and eaten. We had set out blithe and merry, riding jauntily down the
wild valley of the Tongue. We straggled in towards the Hills, towing our
tottering horses behind us: they had long since grown too weak to carry a rider.
Then came a leisurely saunter through the Hills. Crook bought up all the
provisions to be had in Deadwood and other little mining towns, turned over the
command to General Merritt, and hastened to the forts to organize a new force,
leaving to his successor instructions to come in slowly, giving horses and men
time to build up. Men began "building up" fast enough; we did nothing but eat,
sleep, and hunt grass for our horses for whole weeks at a time; but our horses,
--ah, that was different. There was no grain to be had for them. They had been
starving for a month, for the Indians had burned the grass before us wherever we
went, and here in the pine-covered hills what grass could be found was scant and
wiry,--not the rich, juicy, strength-giving bunch grass of the open country. Of
my two horses, neither was in condition to do military duty when we got to
Whitewood. I was adjutant of the regiment, and had to be bustling around a good
deal; and so it happened that one day the colonel said to me, "Well, here's Van.
He can't carry my weight any longer. Suppose you take him and see if he won't
pick up." And that beautiful October day found the racer of the regiment, though
the ghost of his former self, transferred to my keeping. All through the
campaign we had been getting better acquainted, Van and I. The colonel seldom
rode him, but had him led along with the head-quarters party in the endeavor to
save his strength. A big, raw-boned colt, whom he had named "Chunka Witko," in
honor of the Sioux "Crazy Horse," the hero of the summer, had the honor of
transporting the colonel over most of those weary miles, and Van spent the long
days on the muddy trail in wondering when and where the next race was to come
off, and whether at this rate he would be fit for a finish. One day on the
Yellowstone I had come suddenly upon a quartermaster who had a peck of oats on
his boat. Oats were worth their weight in greenbacks, but so was plug tobacco.
He gave me half a peck for all the tobacco in my saddle-bags, and, filling my
old campaign hat with the precious grain, I sat me down on a big log by the
flowing Yellowstone and told poor old "Donnybrook" to pitch in. "Donnybrook" was
a "spare horse" when we started on the campaign, and had been handed over to me
after the fight on the War Bonnet, where Merritt turned their own tactics on the
Cheyennes. He was sparer still by this time; and later, when we got to the muddy
banks of the "Heecha Wapka," there was nothing to spare of him. The head-
quarters party had dined on him the previous day, and only groaned when that
Mark Tapley of a surgeon remarked that if this was Donnybrook Fare it was
tougher than all the stories ever told of it. Poor old Donnybrook! He had recked
not of the coming woe that blissful hour by the side of the rippling
Yellowstone. His head was deep in my lap, his muzzle buried in oats; he took no
thought for the morrow,--he would eat, drink, and be merry, and ask no questions
as to what was to happen; and so absorbed were we in our occupation--he in his
happiness, I in the contemplation thereof--that neither of us noticed the rapid
approach of a third party until a whinny of astonishment sounded close beside
us, and Van, trailing his lariat and picket-pin after him, came trotting up,
took in the situation at a glance, and, unhesitatingly ranging alongside his
comrade of coarser mould and thrusting his velvet muzzle into my lap, looked
wistfully into my face with his great soft brown eyes and pleaded for his share.
Another minute, and, despite the churlish snappings and threatening heels of
Donnybrook, Van was supplied with a portion as big as little Benjamin's, and,
stretching myself beside him on the sandy shore, I lay and watched his
enjoyment. From that hour he seemed to take me into his confidence, and his was
a friendship worth having. Time and again on the march to the Little Missouri
and southward to the Hills he indulged me with some slight but unmistakable
proof that he held me in esteem and grateful remembrance. It may have been only
a bid for more oats, but he kept it up long after he knew there was not an oat
in Dakota,--that part of it, at least. But Van was awfully pulled down by the
time we reached the pine-barrens up near Deadwood. The scanty supply of forage
there obtained (at starvation price) would not begin to give each surviving
horse in the three regiments a mouthful. And so by short stages we plodded along
through the picturesque beauty of the wild Black Hills, and halted at last in
the deep valley of French Creek. Here there was grass for the horses and rest
for the men. For a week now Van had been my undivided property, and was the
object of tender solicitude on the part of my German orderly, "Preuss," and
myself. The colonel had chosen for his house the foot of a big pine-tree up a
little ravine, and I was billeted alongside a fallen ditto a few yards away.
Down the ravine, in a little clump of trees, the head-quarters stables were
established, and here were gathered at nightfall the chargers of the colonel and
his staff. Custer City, an almost deserted village, lay but a few miles off to
the west, and thither I had gone the moment I could get leave, and my mission
was oats. Three stores were still open, and, now that the troops had come
swarming down, were doing a thriving business. Whiskey, tobacco, bottled beer,
canned lobster, canned anything, could be had in profusion, but not a grain of
oats, barley, or corn. I went over to a miner's wagon-train and offered ten
dollars for a sack of oats. The boss teamster said he would not sell oats for a
cent apiece if he had them, and so sent me back down the valley sore at heart,
for I knew Van's eyes, those great soft brown eyes, would be pleading the moment
I came in sight; and I knew more,--that somewhere the colonel had "made a
raise," that he _had_ one sack, for Preuss had seen it, and Chunka Witko had had
a peck of oats the night before and another that very morning. Sure enough, Van
was waiting, and the moment he saw me coming up the ravine he quit his munching
at the scanty herbage, and, with ears erect and eager eyes, came quickly towards
me, whinnying welcome and inquiry at the same instant. Sugar and hard-tack,
delicacies he often fancied in prosperous times, he took from my hand even now;
he was too truly a gentleman at heart to refuse them when he saw they were all I
had to give; but he could not understand why the big colt should have his oats
and he, Van, the racer and the hero of two months ago, should starve, and I
could not explain it. That night Preuss came up and stood attention before my
fire, where I sat jotting down some memoranda in a note-book:

"Lieutenant, I kent shtaendt ut no longer yet. Dot scheneral's horse he git oats
ag'in diesen abent, unt Ven, he git noddings, unt he look, unt look. He ot dot
golt unt den ot me look, unt I _couldn't_ shtaendt ut, lieutenant----"

And Preuss stopped short and winked hard and drew his ragged shirt-sleeve across
his eyes. Neither could I "shtaendt ut." I jumped up and went to the colonel and
begged a hatful of his precious oats, not for my sake, but for Van's. "Self-
preservation is the first law of nature," and your own horse before that of all
the world is the cavalryman's creed. It was a heap to ask, but Van's claim
prevailed, and down the dark ravine "in the gloaming" Preuss and I hastened with
eager steps and two hats full of oats; and that rascal Van heard us laugh, and
answered with impatient neigh. He knew we had not come empty-handed this time.
Next morning, when every sprig and leaf was glistening in the brilliant sunshine
with its frosty dew, Preuss led Van away up the ravine to picket him on a little
patch of grass he had discovered the day before and as he passed the colonel's
fire a keen-eyed old veteran of the cavalry service, who had stopped to have a
chat with our chief, dropped the stick on which he was whittling and stared hard
at our attenuated racer. "Whose horse is that, orderly?" he asked. "De
_etschudant's_, colonel," said Preuss, in his labored dialect. "The adjutant's!
Where did he get him? Why, that horse is a runner!" said "Black Bill,"
appreciatively. And pretty soon Preuss came back to me, chuckling. He had not
smiled for six weeks. "Ven--he veels pully dis morning," he explained. "Dot
Colonel Royle he shpeak mit him unt pet him, unt Ven, he laeff unt gick up mit
his hint lecks. He git vell bretty gwick yet." Two days afterwards we broke up
our bivouac on French Creek, for every blade of grass was eaten off, and pushed
over the hills to its near neighbor, Amphibious Creek, an eccentric stream whose
habit of diving into the bowels of the earth at unexpected turns and
disappearing from sight entirely, only to come up surging and boiling some miles
farther down the valley, had suggested its singular name. "It was half land,
half water," explained the topographer of the first expedition that had located
and named the streams in these jealously-guarded haunts of the red men. Over on
Amphibious Creek we were joined by a motley gang of recruits just enlisted in
the distant cities of the East and sent out to help us fight Indians. One out of
ten might know how to load a gun, but as frontier soldiers not one in fifty was
worth having. But they brought with them capital horses, strong, fat, grain-fed,
and these we campaigners levied on at once. Merritt led the old soldiers and the
new horses down into the valley of the Cheyenne on a chase after some scattering
Indian bands, while "Black Bill" was left to hammer the recruits into shape and
teach them how to care for invalid horses. Two handsome young sorrels had come
to me as my share of the plunder, and with these for alternate mounts I rode the
Cheyenne raid, leaving Van to the fostering care of the gallant old cavalryman
who had been so struck with his points the week previous. One week more, and the
reunited forces of the expedition, Van and all, trotted in to "round up" the
semi-belligerent warriors at the Red Cloud agency on White River, and, as the
war-ponies and rifles of the scowling braves were distributed among the loyal
scouts, and dethroned Machpealota (old Red Cloud) turned over the government of
the great Sioux nation, Ogallallas and all, to his more reliable rival,
Sintegaliska,--Spotted Tail,--Van surveyed the ceremony of abdication from
between my legs, and had the honor of receiving an especial pat and an admiring
"_Washtay_" from the new chieftain and lord of the loyal Sioux. His highness
Spotted Tail was pleased to say that he wouldn't mind swapping four of his
ponies for Van, and made some further remarks which my limited knowledge of the
Brule Dakota tongue did not enable me to appreciate as they deserved. The fact
that the venerable chieftain had hinted that he might be induced to throw in a
spare squaw "to boot" was therefore lost, and Van was saved. Early November
found us, after an all-summer march of some three thousand miles, once more
within sight and sound of civilization. Van and I had taken station at Fort D.
A. Russell, and the bustling prairie city of Cheyenne lay only three miles away.
Here it was that Van became my pet and pride. Here he lived his life of ease and
triumph, and here, gallant fellow, he met his knightly fate. Once settled at
Russell, all the officers of the regiment who were blessed with wives and
children were speedily occupied in getting their quarters ready for their
reception; and late in November my own little household arrived and were
presented to Van. He was then domesticated in a rude but comfortable stable in
rear of my little army-house, and there he slept, was groomed and fed, but never
confined. He had the run of our yard, and, after critical inspection of the
wood-shed, the coal-hole, and the kitchen, Van seemed to decide upon the last-
named as his favorite resort. He looked with curious and speculative eyes upon
our darky cook on the arrival of that domestic functionary, and seemed for once
in his life to be a trifle taken aback by the sight of her woolly pate and
Ethiopian complexion. Hannah, however, was duly instructed by her mistress to
treat Van on all occasions with great consideration, and this to Hannah's
darkened intellect meant unlimited loaf-sugar. The adjutant could not fail to
note that Van was almost always to be seen standing at the kitchen door, and on
those rare occasions when he himself was permitted to invade those premises he
was never surprised to find Van's shapely head peering in at the window, or
head, neck, and shoulders bulging in at the wood-shed beyond. Yet the ex-
champion and racer did not live an idle existence. He had his hours of duty, and
keenly relished them. Office-work over at orderly-call, at high noon it was the
adjutant's custom to return to his quarters and speedily to appear in riding-
dress on the front piazza. At about the same moment Van, duly caparisoned, would
be led forth from his paddock, and in another moment he and his rider would be
flying off across the breezy level of the prairie. Cheyenne, as has been said,
lay just three miles away, and thither Van would speed with long, elastic
strides, as though glorying in his powers. It was at once his exercise and his
enjoyment, and to his rider it was the best hour of the day. He rode alone, for
no horse at Russell could keep alongside. He rode at full speed, for in all the
twenty-four that hour from twelve to one was the only one he could call his own
for recreation and for healthful exercise. He rode to Cheyenne that he might be
present at the event of the day,--the arrival of the trans-continental train
from the East. He sometimes rode beyond, that he might meet the train when it
was belated and race it back to town; and this--_this_ was Van's glory. The
rolling prairie lay open and free on each side of the iron track, and Van soon
learned to take his post upon a little mound whence the coming of the "express"
could be marked, and, as it flared into sight from the darkness of the distant
snow-shed, Van, all a-tremble with excitement, would begin to leap and plunge
and tug at the bit and beg for the word to go. Another moment, and, carefully
held until just as the puffing engine came well alongside, Van would leap like
arrow from the string, and away we would speed, skimming along the springy turf.
Sometimes the engineer would curb his iron horse and hold him back against the
"down-grade" impetus of the heavy Pullmans far in rear; sometimes he would open
his throttle and give her full head, and the long train would seem to leap into
space, whirling clouds of dust from under the whirling wheels, and then Van
would almost tear his heart out to keep alongside. Month after month through the
sharp mountain winter, so long as the snow was not whirling through the air in
clouds too dense to penetrate, Van and his master had their joyous gallops. Then
came the spring, slow, shy, and reluctant as the springtide sets in on that high
plateau in mid-continent, and Van had become even more thoroughly domesticated.
He now looked upon himself as one of the family, and he knew the dining-room
window, and there, thrice each day and sometimes at odd hours between, he would
take his station while the household was at table and plead with those great
soft brown eyes for sugar. Commissary-bills ran high that winter, and cut loaf-
sugar was an item of untold expenditure. He had found a new ally and friend,--a
little girl with eyes as deep and dark as and browner than his own, a winsome
little maid of three, whose golden, sunshiny hair floated about her bonny head
and sweet serious face like a halo of light from another world. Van "took to
her" from the very first. He courted the caress of her little hand, and won her
love and trust by the discretion of his movements when she was near. As soon as
the days grew warm enough, she was always out on the front piazza when Van and I
came home from our daily gallop, and then she would trot out to meet us and be
lifted to her perch on the pommel; and then, with mincing gait, like lady's
palfrey, stepping as though he might tread on eggs and yet not crush them, Van
would take the little one on her own share of the ride. And so it was that the
loyal friendship grew and strengthened. The one trick he had was never ventured
upon when she was on his back, even after she became accustomed to riding at
rapid gait and enjoying the springy canter over the prairie before Van went back
to his stable. It was a strange trick: it proved a fatal one. No other horse I
ever rode had one just like it. Running at full speed, his hoofs fairly flashing
through the air and never seeming to touch the ground, he would suddenly, as it
were, "change step" and gallop "disunited," as we cavalrymen would say. At first
I thought it must be that he struck some rolling stone, but soon I found that
when bounding over the soft turf it was just the same; and the men who knew him
in the days of his prime in Arizona had noted it there. Of course there was
nothing to do for it but make him change back as quick as possible on the run,
for Van was deaf to remonstrance and proof against the rebuke of spur. Perhaps
he could not control the fault; at all events he did not, and the effect was not
pleasant. The rider felt a sudden jar, as though the horse had come down stiff-
legged from a hurdle-leap; and sometimes it would be so sharp as to shake loose
the forage-cap upon his rider's head. He sometimes did it when going at easy
lope, but never when his little girl-friend was on his back; then he went on
springs of air. One bright May morning all the different "troops," as the
cavalry-companies are termed, were out at drill on the broad prairie. The
colonel was away, the officer of the day was out drilling his own company, the
adjutant was seated in his office hard at work over regimental papers, when in
came the sergeant of the guard, breathless and excited. "Lieutenant," he cried,
"six general prisoners have escaped from the guard-house. They have got away
down the creek towards town." In hurried question and answer the facts were
speedily brought out. Six hard customers, awaiting sentence after trial for
larceny, burglary, assault with intent to kill, and finally desertion, had been
cooped up together in an inner room of the ramshackle old wooden building that
served for a prison, had sawed their way through to open air, and, timing their
essay by the sound of the trumpets that told them the whole garrison would be
out at morning drill, had slipped through the gap at the right moment, slid down
the hill into the creek-bottom, and then scurried off townward. A sentinel down
near the stables had caught sight of them, but they were out of view long before
his shouts had summoned the corporal of the guard. No time was to be lost. They
were malefactors and vagabonds of the worst character. Two of their number had
escaped before and had made it their boast that they could break away from the
Russell guard at any time. Directing the sergeant to return to his guard, and
hurriedly scribbling a note to the officer of the day, who had his whole troop
with him in the saddle out on the prairie, and sending it by the hand of the
sergeant-major, the adjutant hurried to his own quarters and called for Van. The
news had reached there already. News of any kind travels like wildfire in a
garrison, and Van was saddled and bridled before the adjutant reached the gate.
"Bring me my revolver and belt,--quick," he said to the servant, as he swung
into saddle. The man darted into the house and came back with the belt and
holster. "I was cleaning your 'Colt,' sir," he said, "but here's the Smith &
Wesson," handing up the burnished nickel-plated weapon then in use
experimentally on the frontier. Looking only to see that fresh cartridges were
in each chamber and that the hammer was on the safety-notch, the adjutant thrust
it into the holster, and in an instant he and Van flew through the east gate in
rapid pursuit. Oh, how gloriously Van ran that day! Out on the prairie the gay
guidons of the troops were fluttering in the brilliant sunshine; here, there,
everywhere, the skirmish-lines and reserves were dotting the plain; the air was
ringing with the merry trumpet-calls and the stirring words of command. Yet men
forgot their drill and reined up on the line to watch Van as he flashed by,
wondering, too, what could take the adjutant off at such an hour and at such a
pace. "What's the row?" shouted the commanding officer of one company.
"Prisoners loose," was the answer shouted back, but only indistinctly heard. On
went Van like one inspired, and as we cleared the drill-ground and got well out
on the open plain in long sweeping curve, we changed our course, aiming more to
the right, so as to strike the valley west of the town. It was possible to get
there first and head them off. Then suddenly I became aware of something jolting
up and down behind me. My hand went back in search: there was no time to look:
the prairie just here was cut up with little gopher-holes and criss-crossed by
tiny canals from the main _acequia_, or irrigating ditch. It was that wretched
Smith & Wesson bobbing up and down in the holster. The Colt revolver of the day
was a trifle longer, and my man in changing pistols had not thought to change
holsters. This one, made for the Colt, was too long and loose by half an inch,
and the pistol was pounding up and down with every stride. Just ahead of us came
the flash of the sparkling water in one of the little ditches. Van cleared it in
his stride with no effort whatever. Then, just beyond,--oh, fatal trick!--
seemingly when in mid-air he changed step, striking the ground with a sudden
shock that jarred us both and flung the downward-pointed pistol up against the
closely-buttoned holster-flap. There was a sharp report, and my heart stood
still an instant. I knew--oh, well I knew it was the death-note of my gallant
pet. On he went, never swaying, never swerving, never slackening his racing
speed; but, turning in the saddle and glancing back, I saw, just back of the
cantle, just to the right of the spine in the glossy brown back, that one tiny,
grimy, powder-stained hole. I knew the deadly bullet had ranged downward through
his very vitals. I knew that Van had run his last race, was even now rushing
towards a goal he would never reach. Fast as he might fly, he could not leave
Death behind. The chase was over. Looking back, I could see the troopers already
hastening in pursuit, but we were out of the race. Gently, firmly I drew the
rein. Both hands were needed, for Van had never stopped here, and some strange
power urged him on now. Full three hundred yards he ran before he would consent
to halt. Then I sprang from the saddle and ran to his head. His eyes met mine.
Soft and brown, and larger than ever, they gazed imploringly. Pain and
bewilderment, strange, wistful pleading, but all the old love and trust, were
there as I threw my arms about his neck and bowed his head upon my breast. I
could not bear to meet his eyes. I could not look into them and read there the
deadly pain and faintness that were rapidly robbing them of their lustre, but
that could not shake their faith in his friend and master. No wonder mine grew
sightless as his own through swimming tears. I who had killed him could not face
his last conscious gaze. One moment more, and, swaying, tottering first from
side to side, poor Van fell with heavy thud upon the turf. Kneeling, I took his
head in my arms and strove to call back one sign of recognition; but all that
was gone. Van's spirit was ebbing away in some fierce, wild dream: his glazing
eyes were fixed on vacancy; his breath came in quick, convulsive gasps; great
tremors shook his frame, growing every instant more violent. Suddenly a fiery
light shot into his dying eyes. The old high mettle leaped to vivid life, and
then, as though the flag had dropped, the starting-drum had tapped, Van's
fleeting spirit whirled into his dying race. Lying on his side, his hoofs flew
through the air, his powerful limbs worked back and forth swifter than ever in
their swiftest gallop, his eyes were aflame, his nostrils wide distended, his
chest heaving, and his magnificent machinery running like lightning. Only for a
minute, though,--only for one short, painful minute. It was only a half-mile
dash,--poor old fellow!--only a hopeless struggle against a rival that never
knew defeat. Suddenly all ceased as suddenly as all began. One stiffening
quiver, one long sigh, and my pet and pride was gone. Old friends were near him
even then. "I was with him when he won his first race at Tucson," said old
Sergeant Donnelly, who had ridden to our aid, "and I knowed then he would die
racing." THE END. PRINTED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY, PHILADELPHIA.
Transcriber's note

Some of the spellings and hyphenations in the original are unusual; they have
not been changed. Minor punctuation errors have been corrected without notice. A
few obvious typographical errors have been corrected and are listed below. Page
107: "would he hurried to their support" changed to "would be hurried to their
support". Page 160: "See knew how her father trusted" changed to "She knew how
her father trusted". Page 197: "The car-seems whirling" changed to "The car
seems whirling". Page 227: "jagged rocks stook" changed to "jagged rocks stood".