Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive)

STEPSONS OF LIGHT

BY

EUGENE MANLOVE RHODES

_Author of "Good Men and True," "Bransford of Rainbow  Range," "The Desire of
the Moth," "West is West," etc._

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

BOSTON AND NEW YORK  HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY  The Riverside Press Cambridge
1921

Copyright, 1920, by  THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY

Copyright, 1921, by  HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

TO MY WIFE

STEPSONS OF LIGHT

There are two sorts of people--those who point with pride and those who view
with alarm. They are quite right. The world will not soon forget Parkman "of
Ours." Here was a man of learning, common sense, judgment and wide sympathies.
Yet once he stumbled; the paregorical imperative, which impels each of us to
utter ignominious nonsense, urged Francis Parkman to the like unhappiness, drove
him to father and put forth this void and singular statement:

I have often perplexed myself to divine the various motives       that give
impulse to this strange migration; but whatever       they may be, whether an
insane hope of a better condition       of life, or a desire of shaking off the
restraints of law       and society, or mere restlessness, certain it is that
multitudes bitterly repent the journey. The year was 1846; the place,
Independence, in Missouri; that strange migration was the winning of the West.
Mr. Parkman viewed it with alarm. The passage quoted may yet be found in the
first chapter of "The Oregon Trail." We, wise after the event, now point with
pride to that strange migration of our fathers. The Great Trek has lasted three
hundred years. To-day we dimly perceive that the history of America is the story
of the pioneer; that on our shifting frontiers the race has been hammered and
tempered to a cutting edge. That insane hope of better things--the same which
beckoned on the Israelites and the Pilgrim Fathers; restraints of law and
society, which in Egypt made the Israelite a slave, in England gave the Puritan
to the pillory and the stocks, and in this western world of ours took the form
of a hollow squire, founder by letters patent of a landed oligarchy--so that the
bold and venturesome sought homes in the unsquired wilderness; and restlessness,
that quality which marks the most notable difference between man and sandstone.
Restlessness, shaking off restraints, insane hopes--in that cadence of ideas
what is there of haunting, echolike and familiar? Restraints of society? When
the very stones of the streets shrieked at him the name of that town--
Independence! Now we know the words that haunted us: "Life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness!" Never was echo clearer. The emigrants were there in
exercise of those unavoidable rights. Not happiness, or the overtaking of
happiness; the pursuit of happiness--the insane hope of a better condition of
life. That which perplexed Parkman looked upon, disapproving, was the settlement
of America--the greatest upbuilding of recorded time; and the prime motive of
that great migration was the motive of all migrations--the search for food and
land. They went west for food. What they did there was to work; if you require a
monument--take a good look! Here is the record of a few late camp fires of the
Great Trek. I

"Why-Why had been principally beaten about the face, and his  injuries,
therefore, were slight." --_The Romance of the First Radical._

"A fine face, marred by an expression of unscrupulous integrity." --_Credit
Lost._

The lady listened with fluttering attention. The lady was sweet and twenty, and
the narrator--myself--was spurred to greater effort. Suddenly a thought struck
her. It was a severe blow. She sat up straight, she stiffened her lips to
primness, her fine eyes darkened with suspicion, her voice crisped to stern
inquiry. "I suppose, when Sunday came, you kept right on working?" It was an
acid supposition. Her dear little nose squinched to express some strong emotion
--loving-kindness, perhaps; her dear little upper lip curled ominous. She looked
as though she might bite. "Kept right on working is right. We had to keep on
working," I explained. "We couldn't very well work six days gathering cattle and
then turn them all loose again on the seventh day--could we now?" The lady
frowned. The lady sniffed. She was not one to be turned aside by subterfuge. She
leaned forward to strike, and flattened her brows in scorn. She looked
uncommonly like a rattlesnake. She said:

"I suppose you couldn't put them in the barn-yards?" And I learned about readers
from her. *       *       *       *       *

Cattle were once grazed to the nearest railroad--say, a thousand miles--yes, and
beyond that railroad to Wyoming grass; or Montana. No one who saw those great
herds forgot them or ever quite refrained from speech of those stirring days, to
children or grandchildren. That is why so many think--not unnaturally--that
range cattle were always held under herd. But it is a mistaken impression.
Cattle do not thrive under herd. Cattle on the free range--everybody's cattle--
were turned loose and mixed together. There were no fences except as deep rivers
counted for such; the Panama Canal was yet undug. Twice a year, in spring and
fall, everybody gets together to work the cattle at the rodeo, or round-up. They
brand the calves; they take into the day herd all strays, all steers or cows to
be shipped, and nothing more. From cattle gathered each day steers and strays
are cut out and thrown into the day herd; all the others, the range cattle, are
turned loose with a vigorous shove in that direction most remote from to-
morrow's round-up. Again, your ranch was that land to which you had either title
or claim; its purpose was to give a water right on stream or lake or to hold
spring, well or tank. But your range was either Texas land or Uncle Sam's land
as far as your cattle would range from your various water rights--say, twenty-
five miles in each direction. Your range was that country where you were
reasonably sure your cattle would not be stolen by strangers. Here was the way
of the Bar Cross round-up; with slight variations it was the way of any round-
up. The Bar Cross Company, running the biggest brand on the Jornada range,
supplied one foreman, one straw boss, three top hands and the captain of the day
herd; one horse wrangler, who herded the saddle horses by day; one night
wrangler, who herded them by night; and mounts for these eight. The Bar Cross
also furnished one red-headed cook; one chuck wagon and the chuck--chuck being
grub--and one bed wagon to haul bed rolls from camp to camp, and also to haul
wood and water between times. Item: Four mules for the chuck wagon, and two for
the bed wagon. The night wrangler drove the bed wagon; night wranglers were not
supposed to sleep. Other ranchmen, co-users of the Bar Cross range, sent each a
man and his mount to represent. A man with many cattle might send two or more
men; the 7 T X--next to the Bar Cross the biggest brand on the Jornada--sent
four. Each man or each two men brought tarp and bedding on a pack horse. From
north, south, east and west came the stray men, each with mount and bed. Stray
men stayed with the outfit as long as it pleased them. When they were satisfied
they cut out from the day herd their own cattle, together with those of their
neighbors, and drove them home. As a usual thing, three or four would throw in
and drive back together. If by chance some man was homeward bound and alone, the
Bar Cross detailed a man to help him home; a friendly and not imprudent custom.
To sum up: The Bar Cross paid nine men, and provided good grub for all comers;
in return it had the help of twenty-five to forty men in working the range; the
rodeo, or round-up. During the weeks or months of that working, wherever some
other outfit gave a round-up--east, west, south or north--there, with mount and
bed, went either a Bar Cross man or one from some other brand of the Jornada
people, bringing back all Jornada cattle. A word about horses. In the fall, when
grass was green and good, a mount was eight to thirteen head. One must be
gentle; he was night horse; every man stood guard at night two and a half to
three hours; all night in case of storm. For the others, the best were cutting
horses, used afternoons, when the day's drive was worked; the poorest were
circle horses and were ridden in the forenoon, when the round-up was made. But
in the spring it is different. Grass is scant and short; corn is fed, and four
horses go to a mount; the range is worked lightly. So much was needful by way of
glossary and guide; so partly to avoid such handicap as we meet in telling a
baseball story to an Englishman. It is a singular thing that with the Bar Cross
were found the top ropers, crack riders, sure shots--not only the slickest
cowmen, but also the wisest cow ponies. Our foremen were "cowmen right," our
wranglers held the horses, our cooks would fry anything once. But you know how
it is--your own organization--firm, farm or factory--is doubtless the best of
its kind. No? You surprise me. You have missed much--faith in others, hope for
others, comradeship. It is laughable to recall that men of other brands disputed
the headship of the Bar Cross. Nor was this jest or bravado; the poor fellows
were sincere enough. Indeed, we thought this pathetic loyalty rather admirable
than otherwise. Such were the 101, in Colorado; the X I T, in the Panhandle; the
Block and the V V, between the Pecos and the Front Range; the Bar W, west of the
White Mountain; the V Cross T, the John Cross, the Diamond A and the L C, west
of the Rio Grande. Even from Arizona, the T L, the Toltec Company--Little
Colorado River way--put forth absurd pretensions. The Bar Cross men smiled,
knowing what they knew. That sure knowledge was the foundation of the gay and
holdfast spirit they brought to confront importunate life. No man wanted to be
the weak link of that strong chain; each brought to his meanest task the
earnestness that is remarked upon when Mr. Ty Cobb slides into second base; they
bent every energy on the thing they did at the joyful time of doing it. In this
way only is developed that rare quality to which the scientific give the name of
pep or punch. Being snappy made them happy, and being happy made them snappy;
establishing what is known to philosophers as the virtuous circle. The nearest
parallel is newspaper circulation, which means more advertising, which boosts
circulation, and so onward and upward. In that high eagerness of absorption, a
man "working for the brand" did not, could not, center all thoughts on self; he
trusted his fellows, counted upon them, joyed in their deeds. And to forget self
in the thought of others is for so long to reach life at its highest. *       *
*       *       *

The Bar Cross had worked the northern half of the range, getting back to Engle,
the center and the one shipping point of the Jornada, with fifteen hundred
steers--finding there no cars available, no prospect of cars for ten days to
come. To take those steers to the south and back meant that they would be so
gaunted as to be unfit for shipment. So the wagon led on softly, drifting down
to the river, to a beating of _bosques_ for outlaw cattle and a combing of half-
forgotten ridges and pockets behind Christobal Mountain. It was a work which
because of its difficulty had been shirked for years; the river cattle mostly
came out on the plains in the rainy season, and got their just deserts there.
Waiting for cars, the outfit was marking time anyhow. Any cattle snared on the
river were pure gain. The main point was to handle the stock tenderly. From
working the _bosques_ the outfit expected few cattle and got less.--The poets
babble about the bosky dell; _bosque_, literally translated, means "woods." Yet
for this purpose if you understand the word as "jungle," you will be the less
misled. Johnny Dines sat tailor-wise on his horse at the crest of a sandy knoll
and looked down at the day herd, spread out over a square mile of tableland, and
now mostly asleep in the brooding heat of afternoon. About the herd other
riders, six in all, stood at attention, black silhouettes, or paced softly to
turn back would-be stragglers. Of these riders Neighbor Jones alone was a Bar
Cross man. He was captain of the day herd, a fixture; for him reluctant straymen
were detailed in turn, day by day, as day herders. Johnny represented a number
of small brands in the north end of the Black Range. His face was sparkling, all
alive; he was short, slender, black-haired, black-eyed, two and twenty. He saw--
Neighbor Jones himself not sooner--what turmoil rose startling from a lower
bench to riverward; a riot of wild cattle with riders as wild on lead and swing
and point. As a usual thing, the day's catch comes sedately to the day herd; but
this day's catch was _bosque_ cattle--renegades and desperates of a dozen
brands. Jody Weir, on Johnny's right, sat on the sand in the shadow of his
horses. This was not ethical; seeing him, Yoast and Ralston, leading the riot,
turned that way, drew aside to right and left, and so loosed the charging
hurricane directly at the culprit. Weir scrambled to saddle and spurred from
under. The other riders closed in on the day herd, stirring them up the better
to check the outlaws. Half of the round-up crew followed Yoast to the right of
the now roused and bellowing day herd, bunching them; the others followed
Ralston on Johnny's side of the herd. Cole Ralston was the Bar Cross foreman.
Overtaking Johnny, he raised a finger; the two drew rein and let the others pass
by. Cole spoke to the last man. "Spike, when they quiet down you ride round and
tell all these day-herder waddies that if any of 'em want to write letters they
can slip in to the wagon. I'm sending a man to town soon after supper." He
turned to Johnny, laughing. "Them outcasts was sure snaky. We near wasted the
whole bunch. Had to string 'em out and let 'em run so they thought they was
getting away or they'd ha' broke back into the brush." "Two bull fights started
already," observed Johnny. "Your Sunday-School bulls are hunting up the wild
ones, just a-snuffin'." "The boys will keep 'em a-moving," said Cole. "Dines,
you ride your own horses, so I reckon you're not drawing pay from the ninety-
seven piney-woods brands you're lookin' out for. Just turning their cattle in a
neighborly way?" "Someone had to come." "Well, then," said Cole, "how would you
like a Bar Cross mount?" Slow red tinged the olive of Johnny's cheek, betraying
the quickened heartbeats. "You've done hired a hand--quick as ever I throw these
cattle back home." "Wouldn't Walter Hearn cut out your milk-pen brands as close
as you would?" "Sure! He's one of the bunch." "Your pay started this morning,
then. Here's the lay. To-morrow we work the herd and start the west-bound strays
home. Walt can throw in with the S S Bar man and I'll send Lon along to
represent the Bar Cross. Hiram goes to the John Cross work, at the same time
helpin' Pink throw back the John Cross stuff. So that leaves us shy a short man.
That's you. Send your horses home with Walt." "I'd like to keep one with me for
my private." "All right. Leave him at the horse camp. Can't carry any idlers
with the _caballada_--makes the other horses discontented. You drift into the
wagon early, when you see the horse herd coming. I'm goin' to send you to the
horse camp to get you a mount. We'll cut out all the lame ones and sore backs
from our mounts too. I'll give you a list of fresh ones to bring back for us.
You go up to Engle after supper and then slip out to Moongate to-morrow. We'll
be loadin' 'em at Engle when you get back. No hurry; take your time." He rode
on. Behind him the most joyous heart between two oceans thumped at Johnny's
ribs. It is likely that you see no cause for pride. You see a hard job for a
scanty wage; to Johnny Dines it was accolade and shoulder stroke. Johnny's life
so far had been made up all of hardships well borne. But that was what Johnny
did not know or dream; to-day, hailed man-grown, he thought of his honors,
prince and peer, not as deserved and earned, but as an unmerited stroke of good
fortune. The herd, suddenly roused, became vociferous with query and rumor;
drifted uneasily a little, muttered, whispered, tittered, fell quiet again, to
cheerful grazing. The fresh wild cattle, nearing the periphery, glimpsed the
dreaded horsemen beyond, and turned again to hiding in the center. Cole and most
of his riders drew away and paced soberly campward, leaving ten herders where
they found six. Jody Weir rode over to Johnny. "Old citizen," he said, "the rod
tells me you are for Engle, and if I wanted to send letters I might go write
'em. But I beat him to it. Letter to my girl all written and ready. All I had to
do was to put in a line with my little old pencil, telling her we'd work the
herd to-morrow and start home next day. She'll be one pleased girl; she sure
does love her little Jody." Johnny knotted his brows in puzzlement. "But who
reads your letters to her?" he said wonderingly. "Now what you doin'--tryin' to
slur my girl? She's educated, that child is." "No; but when you said she--she
liked her little Jody--why, I naturally supposed"--Johnny hesitated--"her
eyesight, you know, might be--"

Weir slapped his leg and guffawed. "Thought she was blind, did you? Well, she
ain't. If she was I wouldn't be writing this letter. Most of it is heap private
and confidential." His face took on a broad and knowing leer as he handed over
the letter. It was fat; it was face up; it bore the address:

MR. J. D. WEIR, HILLSBORO, N. M.

Johnny put the letter carefully in his saddle pocket. "Don't you think maybe
you're leaving an opening for some of the cattle to slip out?" he said,
twitching his thumb toward Weir's deserted post. "Let them other waddies
circulate a little--lazy dogs! Won't hurt 'em any. Cattle ain't troublin',
nohow. Cole, he told me himself to slide over and give you my letters. Darned
funny if a man can't gas a little once in a while." He gave Johnny a black look.
"Say, feller! Maybe you don't like my talk?" "No," said Johnny, "I don't. Not
unless you change the subject. That young lady wouldn't want you to be talking
her over with any tough you meet." Jody Weir checked his horse and regarded
Dines with a truculent stare. "Aw, hell! She ain't so particular! Here, let me
show you the stuff she writes, herself." His hand went to his vest pocket. "Some
baby!" "Here! That's enough! I'm surprised at you, Jody. I never was plumb
foolish about you, but I suhtenly thought you was man enough not to kiss and
tell. That's as low-down as they ever get, I reckon." "You ain't got no gun. And
you're too little for me to maul round--say nothing of scaring the herd and
maybe wasting a lot." "All that is very true--to-day. But it isn't a question of
guns, just now. I'm trying to get you to shut up that big blackguard mouth of
yours. If you wasn't such a numskull you'd see that I'm a-doin' you a good
turn." "You little sawed-off, bench-legged pup! I orter throw this gun away and
stomp you into the sand! Aw, what's a-bitin' you? I ain't named no names, have
I? You're crowdin' me purty hard. What's the matter, feller? Got it in for me,
and usin' this as an excuse? When'd I ever do you any dirt?" "Never," said
Johnny. "Get this straight: I'm not wanting any fight. It's decency I'm trying
to crowd on to you--not a fight." "I can't write to my girl without your say-so,
hey?" "Now you listen! Writing to a girl, fair and above-board, is one thing.
Writing unbeknownst to her folks, with loose talk about her on the side, is
another thing altogether. It's yourself you're doing dirt to--and to this girl
that trusted you." Jody's face showed real bewilderment. "How? You don't know
her name. Nobody knows her name. No one knows I have more than a nodding
acquaintance with her--unless she told you!" His eyes flamed with sudden
suspicion. "You know her yourself--she told you!" "Jody, you put me in mind of
the stealthy hippopotamus, and likewise of the six-toed Wallipaloova bird, that
hides himself under his wing," said Dines. "I've never been in Hillsboro, and I
never saw your girl. But when you write her a letter addressed to yourself--why
don't your dad take that letter home and keep it till you come? How is she going
to get it out of the post office? She can't--unless she works in the post office
herself. Old man Seiber is postmaster at Hillsboro. I've heard that much. And
he's got a daughter named Kitty. You see now I was telling you true--you talk
too much." Weir's face went scarlet with rage. "Here's a fine how-de-do about a
damn little--"

That word was never uttered. Johnny's horse, with rein and knee and spur to
guide and goad, reared high and flung sidewise. White hoofs flashed above Weir's
startled eyes; Johnny launched himself through the air straight at Jody's
throat. Johnny's horse fell crashing after, twisting, bestriding at once the
other horse and the two locked and straining men. Weir's horse floundered and
went down, men and horses rolled together in the sand. From first to last you
might have counted--one--two--three--four! Johnny came clear of the tangle with
Jody's six-shooter in his hand. He grabbed Jody by the collar and dragged him
from under the struggling horses. "We can't go on with this, Jody!" he said
gravely. "You've got no gun!" II

"'She is useful to us, undoubtedly,' answered Corneuse, 'but she does  us an
injury by ruining us.'" --_The Elm Tree on the Mall._

The Jornada is a high desert of tableland, east of the Rio Grande. In design it
is strikingly like a billiard table; forty-five miles by ninety, with mountain
ranges for rail at east and west, broken highlands on the south, a lava bed on
the north. At the middle of each rail and at each corner, for pockets, there is
a mountain passway and water; there are peaks and landmarks for each diamond on
the rail; for the center and for each spot there is a railroad station and water
--Lava, Engle and Upham. Roughly speaking there is road or trail from each spot
to each pocket, each spot to each spot, each pocket to every other pocket. In
the center, where you put the pin at pin pool, stands Engle. Noon of the next
day found Johnny nearing Moongate Pass, a deep notch in the San Andreas
Mountains; a smooth semicircle exactly filled and fitted by the rising moon,
when full and seen from Engle. Through Moongate led the wagon road, branching at
the high parks on the summit to five springs: The Bar Cross horse camp, Bear
Den, Rosebud, Good Fortune, Grapevine. Johnny drove his casualties slowly up the
gentle valley. On either hand a black-cedared ridge climbed eastward, each to a
high black mountain at the head of the pass. Johnny gathered up what saddle
horses were in the pass and moved them along with his cripples. At the summit he
came to a great gateway country of parks and cedar mottes, gentle slopes and low
rolling ridges, with wide smooth valleys falling away to north and south;
eastward rose a barrier of red-sandstone hills. High in those red hills Johnny
saw two horsemen. They drove a bunch of horses of their own; they rode swiftly
down a winding backbone to intercept him. He held up his little herd; the two
riders slowed up in response. They came through a greenwood archway to the
little cove where Johnny waited. One was a boy of sixteen, Bob Gifford, left in
charge of the horse camp; the other a tall stranger who held up his hand in
salute. Young Bob reined up with a gay flourish. "Hello, Dinesy!" He took a
swift survey of Johnny's little herd and sized up the situation. "Looks like you
done signed up with the Bar Cross." "Oh, _si_! Here's a list of horses Cole sent
for. I don't know 'em all, so I brought along all I saw." Bob took the scrap of
paper. "Calabaza, Jug, Silver Dick--Oh, excuse me! Mr. Hales, this is Johnny
Dines. Mr. Hales is thinkin' some of buying that ornery Spot horse of mine.
Johnny, you got nigh all you need to make good your hospital list. Now let's
see. Um-m!--Twilight, Cyclone, Dynamite, Rebel, Sif Sam, Cigarette, Skyrocket,
Straight-edge, and so forth. Um! Your mount, that bunch? Sweet spirits of nitre!
Oh, cowboy! You sure got to ride!" "Last man takes the leavings," said Johnny.
"You got 'em." Bob rolled his eyes eloquently. "I'll tell a man! Two sticks and
eleven catawampouses! Well, it's your funeral. Any rush?" "Just so I get back to
Engle to-morrow night." "Easy as silk, then. All them you ain't got here will be
in to water to-night or to-morrow morning, 'cept Bluebeard and Popcorn. They run
at Puddingstone Tanks, down the canyon. You and me will go get 'em after
dinner." "Dinner? Let's go! Got any beef, Bobby?" "Better'n beef. Bear meat-
jerked. Make hair grow on your chest. Ever eat any?" "Bear meat? Who killed a
bear?" "Me. Little Bobby. All alone. Three of 'em. Killed three in the yard the
very first morning," said little Bobby proudly. "I heard them snuffin' and
millin' round out in the water pen in the night, but I thought it was stock.
Then they come up in the house yard. Soon as it come day I got up to drive 'em
out--and behold you, they was no stock, but three whoppin' brown bears. So I
fogged 'em. Killed all three before they could get out of the yard." "Good
Lord!" said Johnny. His face drooped to troubled lines. The man Hales glanced
sharply at him. "Heap big chief me!" prattled Bobby, unnoting. "Two bully good
skins--had to shoot the last one all to rags to kill him--and twelve hundred
pounds of good meat. Wah!" He turned to the stranger. "Well, Mr. Hales, do you
think that little old plug of mine will suit you?" "Oh, I reckon so. Beggars
mustn't be choosers--and I sure need him. Thirty dollars, you said?" "Wouldn't
take a cent more. I'm not gougin' you. That's his price, weekdays or Sunday. He
don't look much, but he ain't such a bad little hoss." Hales nodded. "He'll do,
I guess." "You done bought a horse!" said Bobby. "And Johnny, he's got a mount
to make him a rep--if they don't spill him." He broke into rollicking song:

_They picked me up and carried me in;      They rubbed me down with a rolling
pin. "Oh, that's the way we all begin,        You're doing well," says Brown;
"To-morrow morn, if you don't die,      I'll give you another horse to try."
"Oh, can't you let me walk?" says I----_

Here he cocked an impish eye at Dines, observed that gentleman's mournful face,
and broke the song short. "What's the matter with you now, Dinesy? You can ride
'em, of course. No trouble after you first take the edge off." "It isn't that,"
said Dines sorrowfully. "I--I--you ain't a bit to blame, but--"

He stopped, embarrassed. "What's the matter, you old fool? Spill it!" Johnny
sighed and drew in a long breath. "I hate to name it, Bob--I do so. Hiram Yoast
and Foamy White, the blamed old fools, they orter told you! They'll be all broke
up about this." He looked Bob square in the eye and plunged on desperately.
"Them bears, Bobby--Hiram and Foamy had been makin' pets of 'em. Feedin' them
beef bones and such ever since last spring--had 'em plumb gentle." "Hell and
damnation!" Johnny's eyes were candid and compassionate. "Anybody would have
done just the same, Bobby. Don't you feel too bad about it. Rotten durned shame,
though. Them bears was a bushel o' fun. Jack and Jill, the two biggest ones,
they was a leetle mite standoffish and inclined to play it safe. But the
Prodigal Son, that's the least one--growed a heap since last spring with plenty
to eat that way--why, the Prodigal he'd never met up with any man but Foamy and
Hi, so he wasn't a mite leery. Regular clown, that bear. Stand up right in front
of the door, and catch biscuit and truck the boys threw to him--loll out his
little red tongue and grin like a house afire. He was right comical. How he did
love molasses!" "How come them fools didn't tell me?" demanded the crestfallen
hunter, almost in tears. "Pretty tough luck," said Hales commiseratingly. "I
killed a pet deer once. I know just how you feel." "I don't know who's to break
it to Hiram and Foamy," said Johnny, grieving. "It's goin' to hurt 'em, bad!
They set a heap of store by them bears--'special the Prodigal--poor little
fellow! I feel right bad myself, and I was only here two nights. Make it all the
worse for them, being all on account of their cussed carelessness. I can't see
how you're a bit to blame. Only I do think you might have noticed your night
horse didn't make any fuss. Usual, horses are scared stiff of bears. But they'd
got plumb used to these." "Didn't keep up no horse that night," said Bob
miserably. "Look here!" said Hales. "What's the use of letting them other
fellows know anything about it? Mr. Dines and me, we won't tell. This young man
can send his bearskins over east, Tularosa or somewhere, and keep his lip
buttoned up. No one need be ever the wiser. Bears change their range whenever
they get good and ready. Nobody need know but what they just took a notion to
light out." "Say, that's the right idea!" said Johnny, brightening. "That'll
save a heap of trouble. Boys are liable to think the round-up scared 'em out--as
might happen, easy. That ain't all either. That plan will not only save Hi and
Foamy a heap o' grief, but it won't be no bad thing for Bob Gifford. I'll tell
you honest, Bob--the Bar Cross will near devil the life out of you if this thing
ever gets out." "That's good dope, kid," said Hales kindly. "No use cryin' over
spilt milk." "Let's drop it then. I'll get rid of the bear hides." "That's
right. Talkin' about it only makes you feel bad. Forget it. Here, I'll give you
something else to think about. You two seem to be all right." Hales drew rein,
with a long appraising look at the younger man. It seemed to satisfy him; he
rode a little to one side, facing a wooded sugar-loaf hill in the middle of the
rough gap leading east to Rosebud. He waved his hand. A crackling of brush made
instant answer; high above them a horseman came from cover and picked his way
down the steep hill. "Friend of mine," explained Hales, returning. "He is sort
of watering at night, just now. No hanging matter--but he wouldn't have showed
up unless I waved him the O. K. And he is sure one hungry man. It's for him I
bought the horse." Johnny reflected a little. This was no new or startling
procedure. Besides being the most lonesome spot in a thinly settled country,
with a desert on each side, and with Engle, thirty miles, for next neighbor, the
horse camp had other advantages. It was situated in the Panhandle of Socorro
County; a long, thin strip of rough mountain, two townships wide and five long,
with Sierra County west, Dona Ana to the south, Lincoln and Otero on the east; a
convenient juxtaposition in certain contingencies. Many gentlemen came
uncommunicative to the horse camp and departed unquestioned. In such case the
tradition of hospitality required the host to ride afield against the parting
time; so being enabled to say truly that he knew not the direction of his
guest's departure. Word was passed on; the Panhandle became well and widely
known; we all know what the lame dog did to the doctor. But Johnny rubbed his
nose. This thing had been done with needless ostentation; and Johnny did not
like Mr. Hales' face. It was a furtive face; the angles of the eyes did not
quite match, so that the eyes seemed to keep watch of each other; moreover, they
were squinched little eyes, and set too close to the nose; the nose was too thin
and was pinched to a covert sneer, aided therein by a sullen mouth under heavy
mustaches. Altogether Mr. Hales did not look like a man overgiven to
trustfulness. Johnny did not see any reason why Mr. Hales' friend should not
have ridden in later and with more reticence; so he set himself to watch for
such reason. "My friend, Mr. Smith," announced Hales, as Mr. Smith joined them.
Mr. Smith, like the others, wore belt and six-shooter; also, a rifle was
strapped under his knee. He was a short and heavy-set man, singularly carefree
of appearance, and he now inquired with great earnestness: "Anybody mention
grub?" "Sure," said Bobby. "Let's drift! Only a mile or so." _We all went to the
ranch next day;      Brown augured me most all the way;      He said cowpunching
was only play,        There was no work at all. "All you have to do is ride,
It's just like drifting with the tide----"      Lord have mercy, how he lied! He
had a most horrible gall!_

The walling hills were higher now. The canyon fell away swiftly to downward
plunge, gravel between cut banks. Just above the horse camp it made a sharp
double-S curve. Riding across a short cut of shoulder, Bob, in the lead, held up
a hand to check the others. He rode up on a little platform to the right, from
which, as pedestal, rose a great hill of red sandstone, square-topped and
incredibly steep. Bobby waved his hat; a man on foot appeared on the crest of
the red hill and zigzagged down the steeps. He wore a steeple-crowned hat and he
carried a long rifle in the crook of his arm. Johnny's eyes widened. He
exchanged a glance with Hales; and he observed that Smith and Hales did not look
at each other. Yet they had--so Johnny thought--one brief glance coming to them,
under the circumstances. Hales pitched his voice low. "You was lying about them
bears, of course?" "Got to keep boys in their place," said Johnny in the same
guarded undertone. "If them bears had really been pets do you suppose I'd ever
have opened my head about it?" "It went down easy." Hales grinned his
admiration. "You taken one chance though--about his night horse." "Not being
scared, you mean? Well, he hasn't mentioned any horse having a fit. And I
reckoned maybe he hadn't kept up any night horse. Really nothing much for him to
do. Except cooking." "He does seem to have a right smart of company," agreed
Hales. Bob returned with the last comer--a gaunt, brown man with a gift for
silence. "My friend, Mr. Jones," Bob explained gravely. "He stakes his horse on
that hilltop. Bully grass there. And quiet. He likes quiet. He doesn't care for
strangers a-tall--not unless I stand good for 'em." The camp--a single room,
some fourteen feet by eighteen, flat roofed, made of stone with a soapstone
fireplace--was built in a fenced yard on a little low red flat, looped about by
the canyon, pleasant with shady cedars, overhung by a red and mighty mountain at
the back, faced by a mightier mountain of white limestone. The spring gushed out
at the contact of red and white. The bunch of saddle horses was shut up in the
water pen. Preparation for dinner went forward merrily, not without favorable
comment from Mr. Smith for Bob's three bearskins, a proud carpet on the floor.
Mr. Jones had seen them before; Hales and Johnny kept honorable silence on that
theme. Hales and Mr. Smith set a good example by removing belt and gun; an
example followed by Bob, but by neither Johnny nor Mr. Jones. The latter
gentleman indeed had leaned his rifle in the corner beyond the table. But while
the discussion of bearskins was most animated, Johnny caught Mr. Jones' eye, and
arched a brow. Johnny next took occasion to roll his own eye slowly at the
unconscious backs of Mr. Hales and Mr. Smith--and then transferred his gaze,
very pointedly, to the long rifle in the corner. Shortly after, Mr. Jones rose
and took a seat behind the table, with the long rifle at his right hand. "Well,
Mr. Bob," said Hales when dinner was over, "here's your thirty dollars. You give
Smith a bill of sale and get your pardner to witness it. Me, I'm telling you
good-by. I'm due to lead Smith's discard pony about forty mile north to-night,
and set him loose about daylight--up near the White Oaks stage road. Thank'ee
kindly. Good-by, all!" "Wait a minute, Toad," said Smith briskly. "I'll catch up
my new cayuse and side you a little ways. Stake him out in good grass, some
quiet place--like my pardner here." He grinned at Mr. Jones, who smiled,
attentive. "I'll hang my saddle in a tree and hoof it back about dark. Safe
enough here--all good fellows. And I sure like that bear meat. To say nothing of
being full up of myself for society." "We'll do the dishes," said Johnny. "Bob,
you rope me up the gentlest of my hyenas and we'll slip down to Puddingstone
presently." "Well, good luck to you, Mr. Dines," said Hales at the door. "So
long." "That horse you've got staked out, Mr. Jones," said Johnny, when the
others were catching horses, "how about him? I've got a private horse out in the
water pen. Shall we swap? Saddles too? You're a little the biggest, but you can
let out my stirrups a notch, and I can take up a notch in yours, up on that
pinnacle when I go for my new horse and come back--about dark. That way, you
might ride down the canyon with Bob. I think maybe--if it was important--Bob
might not find the horses he wants, and might lay out to-night. And you might
tell him you was coming back to camp. But you can always change your mind, you
know. 'All you have to do is ride.'" "This is right clever of you, young man,"
said Jones slowly. "It sure is. Your saddle any good?" "Better'n yours. Enough
better to make up for the difference in hosses, unless yours is a jo-darter. My
hoss is tired." "He'll have all fall to rest up. We'd better trade hats, too.
Somebody might be watchin' from the hills." "Them fellows?" Jones motioned
toward the water pen with the plate he was drying. "Scouts, I guess. Decoy
ducks. More men close, I judge. Acted like it. You ought to know." "It ain't
noways customary to send two men after me," said Jones. Johnny nodded. "You
don't know about Smithy yet. Let me wise you up." He outlined the trustfulness
of Smithy. "So he was all labeled up for an outlaw, like a sandwich man. Putting
one over on Bobby--him being a boy. Bobby fell for it. And me, just a big kid
myself, what show did I have with two big grown men smooth as all that? So they
fooled me, too. Smithy said 'Toad' once--notice? Toad Hales. I've heard of Toad
Hales. Socorro way. Big mitt man, once. Skunk--but no fighting fool. Out for the
dollar." "He sees some several. You're takin' right smart of a chance, young
fellow." "I guess I've got a right to swap horses if I want to. Hark! They're
ridin' up the canyon." "Well, suh, I'm right obliged to you, and that's a fact."
"I'm not doing this for you exactly. I'm protectin' the Bar Cross. And that's
funny, too," said Johnny. "I've just barely signed up with the outfit, and right
off things begin to take place in great lumps and gobs. More action in two days
than I've seen before in two years. Here's how I look at it: If anyone sees fit
to ride up on you and gather you on the square I've got nothing to say. But I
hold no candle to treachery. You're here under trust. I owe it to the Bar Cross
--and to you--that you leave here no worse off than you came. I don't know what
you've done. If it's mean enough, I may owe it to Johnny Dines to go after you
myself later on. But you go safe from here first. That's my job." "And I'll bet
you'd sure come a-snuffin'. I judge you're a right white man, suh! But it's not
so mean as all that, this time. Not even a case of 'alive or dead.' Just 'for
arrest and conviction.' So I guess you'll be reasonably safe on the hillside. No
money in killing you, or me, or whoever brings my hoss off of that hill. And
they'll be counting on gathering you in easy--asleep here, likely." "That's the
way I figured it--that last." "But how'll you square yourself with the sheriff?"
"I'll contrive to make strap and buckle meet some way. Man dear, I've got to!"
"Well, then--I owe you a day in harvest. Good-by, suh. Jones, he pulls his
freight." *       *       *       *       *

Johnny brought his new horse and saddle down from the red hill, unmolested. He
cut out what horses he wanted to keep in the branding pen; turned the others
loose, his new acquisition with them; and started supper. Mr. Smith joined him
at dark; but the horse hunters did not get back. Supper followed, then seven-up
and conversation. Johnny fretted over the non-return of Gifford. "He talked as
if he knew right where to lay his hand on them horses," he complained. "Wish I
had gone myself. Now in the morning I'll have to be out of here at daylight.
That bunch I got in the pen, I got to take them out to grass, and wait till Bob
comes--if the blame little fool sleeps out to-night." "Oh, he'll be in purty
quick, likely." "I don't know," said Johnny dejectedly. "I had to-morrow all
figured out like a timetable, and here it's all gummed up. Listen. What's that
in the yard--crunchin'? Varmints, likely. When I was here last we used to throw
out beef bones, and of nights we'd shoot through the doorway at the noise. We
got eight skunks and three coyotes and a fox and a tub. Guess I'll try a shot
now." He picked up his revolver and cocked it. "Hello, the house!" said a
hurried voice outside. "Why, it's a man!" said Johnny. He turned his gun upon
Mr. Smith. "One word and you're done," he whispered. His eye was convincing.
Smith petrified. Johnny raised his voice. "Hello, outside! You come near getting
shot for a skunk! If you want supper and shelter say please and walk out loud
like a man. I don't like your pussy-foot ways." "Come out of there--one at a
time--hands up!" said the voice. "We've got you surrounded. You can't get away!"
"On the contrary, we are behind thick walls, and you can get away if you're
right quick and immediate," said Johnny. "Inside of a minute I'm going to empty
a rifle out there on general principles. This is a Bar Cross house. I am a Bar
Cross man, where I belong, following orders. Half a minute more!" "You fool!
This is the sheriff's posse!" "I hear you say it." "I am the sheriff of Socorro
County," said another voice, "and I summon you to surrender." "I am a Bar Cross
man in a Bar Cross house," repeated Johnny. "If you're the sheriff, walk in that
door on your hind legs, with your hands up, and let us have a look at you."
"That's Johnny Dines talking!" said a third voice. "Hello, Dines! This is me,
Bill Fewell! Say, this is the sheriff and his posse all right! Don't you get in
wrong." "One man may unbuckle his belt and back in at that door, hands up. If
you can show any papers for me, I surrender. While I give 'em the quick look,
the man that comes in is a hostage with my gun between his shoulder blades. If
he takes his hands down or anybody tries any funny business, I'll make a sieve
of him. Step lively!" "Dines, you fool," bawled the sheriff, "I got nothing
against you. But I've got a warrant for that man in there with you, and I'm
going to have him." "Oh!" A moment's silence. Then said Johnny, in an injured
voice: "You might ha' said so before. I've got him covered and I've taken his
gun. So now I've got one gun for him and one for the hostage. Send in one man
walking backward, hands up, warrant in his belt--and let him stop right in the
door! No mistakes. If the warrant is right you get your man. Any reward?" "He's
a stiff-necked piece," said Fewell. "But he'll do just what he says. Here, give
me your warrant. He won't hurt me--if you fellows hold steady. If you don't,
you've murdered me, that's all. Hey, Dines! You stubborn long-eared Missouri
mule, I'm coming, as per instructions--me, Bill Fewell. You be careful!" He
backed up and stood framed in the open door against the lamplight. Johnny's hand
flickered out and snatched the warrant. "Why, sheriff, this seems to be all
right. Only he gave me a different name. But then, he naturally would. Why, this
warrant is all shipshape. Hope I get some of that reward. Here's your man, and
here are my guns." He appeared at the door and tossed his guns down. The sheriff
crowded by, and broke into a bellow of rage. "You fool! You blundering idiot!
This is one of my posse!" "What?" Johnny's jaw dropped in pained surprise. "He's
a liar, then. He told me he was an outlaw. Don't blame me!" "You hell-sent half-
wit! Where's that other man--Jones?" "Oh, him? He's down the canyon, sir. He
went with Bob after horses. He hasn't got back yet, sir." "Dines, you scoundrel!
Are you trying to make a fool out of me?" "Oh, no, sir! Impossible. Not at all,
sir. If you and your posse will take cover, sir, I'll capture him for you when
he comes back, just as I did this one, sir. We are always glad to use the Bar
Cross house as a trap and the Bar Cross grub for bait. As you see, sir." "Damn
you, Dines, that man isn't coming back!" Johnny considered this for a little.
Then he looked up with innocent eyes. "Perhaps you are right, sir," he said
thoughtfully. *       *       *       *       *

Long since, the floods have washed out the Bar Cross horse camp, torn away pens
and flat and house, leaving from hill to hill a desolate wash of gravel and
boulders--so that no man may say where that poor room stood. Yet youth housed
there and hope, honor and courage and loyalty; there are those who are glad it
shall shelter no meaner thing. III

"I do believe there shall be a winter yet in heaven--and in hell." --_Paradise
and the Periscope._

"Realism, _n._ The art of depicting nature as it is seen by toads." --_The
Devil's Dictionary._

"They sit brooding on a garbage scow and tell us how bad the world  smells."
--BERTON BRALEY. "Just round the block" is a phrase familiar to you. To get the
same effect in the open country you would say "thirty miles" or sixty; and in
those miles it is likely there would be no water and no house--perhaps not any
tree. Consider now: Within the borders of New Mexico might be poured New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware. Then drop in another small state
and all of Chesapeake Bay, and still New Mexico would not be brimful--though it
would have to be carried carefully to avoid slopping over. Scattered across this
country is a population less than that of Buffalo--half of it clustered in six-
mile ribbons along the Rio Grande and the Pecos. Those figures are for to-day.
Divide them by three, and then excuse the story if it steps round the block. It
was long ago; Plancus was consul then. Some two weeks after the day when Johnny
Dines went to horse camp, Charlie See rode northward through the golden
September; northward from Rincon, pocket of that billiard table you know of. His
way was east of the Rio Grande, in the desperate twisting country where the
river cuts through Caballo Mountains. His home was beyond the river, below
Rincon, behind Cerro Roblado and Selden Hill; and he rode for a reason he had.
Not for the first time; at every farm and clearing he was hailed with greeting
and jest. Across the river he saw the yellow walls of Colorado, of old Fort
Thorne, deserted Santa Barbara. He came abreast of them, left them behind, came
to Wit's End, where the river gnaws at the long bare ridges and the wagon road
clings and clambers along the brown hillside. He rode sidewise and swaying,
crooning a gay little saddle song; to which Stargazer, his horse, twitched back
an inquiring ear. _Oh, there was a crooked man and he rode a crooked mile_----

Charlie See was as straight as his own rifle; it was the road he traveled which
prompted that joyful saddle song. As will be found upon examination, that
roistering ditty sorts with a joyful jog trot. It follows that Charlie See was
not riding at a run, as frontiersmen do in the movies. It is a great and
neglected truth that frontiersmen on the frontier never ride like the
frontiersmen in films. And it may be mentioned in passing that frontiersmen on
frontiers never do anything at all resembling as to motive, method or result
those things which frontiersmen do in films. And that is the truth. The actual
facts are quite simple and jolly. In pursuit of wild stock, men run their horses
at top speed for as short a time as may be contrived; not to make the wild stock
run faster and farther, but to hold up the wild stock. Once checked, they
proceed as soberly as may be to the day's destination; eventually to a market.
Horse or steer comes to market in good shape or bad, as the handling has been
reckless or tender; and the best cowman is he whose herds have been moved
slowest. At exceptional times--riding with or from the sheriff, to get a doctor,
or, for a young man in April, riding a fresh horse for a known and measured
distance, speed is permitted. But the rule is to ride slowly and sedately,
holding swiftness in reserve for need. Walk, running walk, pace, jog trot--those
are the road gaits, to which horses are carefully trained, giving most mileage
with least effort. Rack and single-foot are tolerated but frowningly. The mad,
glad gallop is reserved for childhood and for emergencies. Penalties,
progressively suitable, are provided for the mad, glad galloper. He becomes the
object of sidelong glances and meaning smiles; persistent, he becomes the theme
of gibe and jest to flay the skin. If he be such a one as would neither observe
nor forecast, one who will neither learn nor be taught, soon or late he finds
himself set afoot with a give-out horse; say, twenty-five miles from water. It
is not on record that wise or foolish, after one such experience, is ever
partial to the sprightly gallop as a road gait. Of thirst, as of "eloquent, just
and mightie Death," it may be truly said: "Whom none could advise, thou hast
perswaded." The road wound down to the bottom land for a little space. Then sang
Charlie See:

_Oh, mind you not in yonder town        When the red wine you were fillin',
You drank a health to the ladies round        And slighted Barbara Allan?_

Followed a merry ditty of old days:

_Foot in the stirrup and a hand on the horn,      Best old cowboy ever was born!
Hi, yi-yippy, yippy-hi-yi-yi,          Hi-yi-yippy-yippy-yay!_

_Stray in the herd and the boss said kill it,      Shot him in the ear with the
handle of the skillet! Hi, yi-yippy, yippy-hi-yi-yi,        Hi-yi-yippy-yippy-
yay!_

That rollicking chorus died away. The wagon road turned up a sandy draw for a
long detour, to cross the high ridges far inland. Stargazer clambered up the
Drunkard's Mile, a steep and dizzy cut-off. High on an overhang of halfway
shelf, between water and sky, Stargazer paused for breathing space. _The world
has no place for a dreamer of dreams,      Then 'tis no place for me, it seems,
Dearie!... My dearie!_

Echo rang bugle-brave from cliff to cliff, pealed exulting, answered again--came
back long after, faint and far:

"Dearie!... My dearie!" He looked down, musing, at the swirling black waters far
below. _For I dream of you all the day long! You run through the hours like a
song! Nothing's worth while save dreams of you,      And you can make every
dream come true--        Dearie! My dearie!_

Drunkard's Mile fell off into the valley at Redbrush and joined the wagon road
there. They passed Beck's Ferry and Beneteau's; they came to a bridge over the
_acequia madre_, the mother ditch, wide and deep. Beyond was a wide valley of
cleared and irrigated farm lands. This was Garfield settlement. *       *
*       *       *

You remember Mr. Dick and how he could not keep King Charles' head out of his
Memorial? A like unhappiness is mine. When I remember that pleasant settlement
as it really was, cheerful and busy and merry, I am forced to think how
gleefully the super-sophisticated Sons of Light would fall afoul of these
friendly folk--how they would pounce upon them with jeering laughter, scoff at
their simple joys and fears; set down, with heavy and hateful satisfaction,
every lack and longing; flout at each brave makeshift, such as Little Miss Brag
crowed over, jubilant, when she pointed with pride:

_For little Miss Brag, she lays much stress      On the privileges of a gingham
dress--       A-ha-a! O-ho-o!_

A lump comes to my throat, remembering; now my way is plain; if I would not be
incomparably base, I must speak up for my own people. Now, like Mr. Dick, I must
fly my kite, with these scraps and tags of Memorial. The string is long, and if
the kite flies high it may take the facts a long way; the winds must bear them
as they will. Consider now the spreading gospel of despair, and marvel at the
power of words--noises in the air, marks upon paper. Let us wonder to see how
little wit is needed to twist and distort truth that it may set forth a lie. A
tumblebug zest, a nose pinched to sneering, a slurring tongue--with no more
equipment you and I could draw a picture of Garfield as it is done in the
fashion of to-day. Be blind and deaf to help and hope, gay courage, hardship
nobly borne; appeal to envy, greed, covetousness; belaud extravagance and
luxury; magnify every drawback; exclaim at rude homes, simple dress, plain food,
manners not copied from imitators of Europe's idlesse; use ever the mean and
mocking word--how easy to belittle! Behold Garfield--barbarous, uncouth, dreary,
desolate, savage and forlorn; there misery kennels, huddled between jungle and
moaning waste; there, lout and boor crouch in their wretched hovels! We have
left out little; only the peace of mighty mountains far and splendid, a gallant
sun and the illimitable sky, tingling and eager life, and the invincible spirit
of man. Such picture as this of Garfield _comme il faut_ is, I humbly conceive,
what a great man, who trod earth bravely, had in mind when he wondered at "the
spectral unreality of realistic books." It is what he forswore in his up-
summing: "And the true realism is ... to find out where joy resides and give it
a voice beyond singing." This trouble about Charles the First and our head--it
started in 1645, I think--needs looking into. There are circles where
"adventurer" is a term of reproach, where "romance" is made synonym for a lie,
and a silly lie at that. Curious! The very kernel and meaning of romance is the
overcoming of difficulties or a manly constancy of striving; a strong play
pushed home or defeat well borne. And it would be hard to find a man but found
his own life a breathless adventure, brief and hard, with ups and downs enough,
strivings through all defeats. Interesting, if true. But can we prove this?
Certainly--by trying. Mr. Dick sets us all right. Put any man to talk of what he
knows best--corn, coal or lumber--and hear matters throbbing with the entrancing
interest born only of first-hand knowledge. Our pessimists "suspect nothing but
what they do not understand, and they suspect everything"--as was said of the
commission set to judge the regicides who cut off the head of Charles the Martyr
--whom I may have mentioned, perhaps. Let the dullest man tell of the thing he
knows at first hand, and his speech shall tingle with battle and luck and loss,
purr for small comforts of cakes and ale or sound the bell note of clean mirth;
his voice shall exult with pride of work, tingle and tense to speak of hard-won
steeps, the burden and heat of the day and "the bright face of danger"; it shall
be soft as quiet water to tell of shadows where winds loiter, of moon magic and
far-off suns, friendship and fire and song. There will be more, too, which he
may not say, having no words. We prate of little things, each to each; but we
fall silent before love and death. It was once commonly understood that it is
not good for a man to whine. Only of late has it been discovered that a thinker
is superficial and shallow unless he whines; that no man is wise unless he views
with alarm. Eager propaganda has disseminated the glad news that everything is
going to the demnition bowwows. Willing hands pass on the word. The method is
simple. They write very long books in which they set down the evil on the one
side--and nothing on the other. That is "realism." Whatsoever things are false,
whatsoever things are dishonest, whatsoever things are unjust, whatsoever things
are impure, whatsoever things are of ill report; if there be any vice, and if
there be any shame--they think on these things. They gloat upon these things;
they wallow in these things. The next time you hanker for a gripping, stinging,
roaring romance, try the story of Eddystone Lighthouse. There wasn't a realist
on the job--they couldn't stand the gaff. For any tough lay like this of
Winstanley's dream you want a gang of idealists--the impractical kind. It is not
a dismal story; it is a long record of trouble, delay, setbacks, exposure,
hardship, death and danger, failure, humiliation, jeers, disaster and ruin.
Crippled idealists were common in Plymouth Harbor. The sea and the wind mocked
their labor; they were crushed, frozen and drowned; but they built Eddystone
Light! And men in other harbors took heart again to build great lights against
night and storm; the world over, realists fare safelier on the sea for
Winstanley's dream. There is the great distinction between realism and reality:
It is the business of a realist to preach how man is mastered by circumstances;
it is the business of a man to prove that he will be damned first. You may note
this curious fact of dismal books--that you remember no passage to quote to your
friends. Not one. And you perceive, with lively astonishment, that despairing
books are written by the fortunate. The homespun are not so easily discouraged.
When crows pull up their corn they do not quarrel with Creation. They comment on
the crows, and plant more corn. This trouble in King Charles' head may be
explained, in part, on a closer looking. As for those who announce the
bankruptcy of an insolvent and wildcat universe, with no extradition, and who
proclaim God the Great Absconder--they are mostly of the emerged tenth. Their
lips do curl with scorn; and what they scorn most is work--and doers. For what
they deign to praise--observe, sir, for yourself, what they uphold, directly or
by implication. See if it be not a thing compact of graces possible only to
idleness. See if it be not their great and fatal mistake that they regard
culture as an end in itself, and not as a means for service. Aristocracy?
Patricians? In a world which has known the tinker of Bedford, the druggist's
clerk of Edmonton, the Stratford poacher, backwoods Lincoln, a thousand others,
and ten thousand--a carpenter's son among them? Returning to the Provisional
Government: Regard its members closely, these gods _ad interim_. The ground of
their depression is that everybody is not Just like Them. They have a grievance
also in the matter of death; which might have been arranged better. It saddens
them to know that so much excellence as theirs should perish from the earth. The
skeptic is slacker, too; excusing himself from the hardships of right living by
pleading the futility of effort. Unfair? Of course I am unfair; all this is
assumption without knowledge, a malicious imputation of the worst possible
motives, judgment from a part. It is their own method. A wise word was said of
late: "There are poor colonels, but no poor regiments." It would be truer to
change a word; to say that there are poor soldiers, but no poor regiments. The
gloomster picks the poorest soldier he can find, and holds him up to our eyes as
a sample. "This is life!" says the pessimist, proud at last. "Now you see the
stuff your regiments are made of!" If one of these pallbearers should write a
treatise on pomology he would dwell lovingly on apple-tree borers, blight and
pest and scale. He would say no word of spray or pruning; he would scoff at the
glory of apple blossoms as the rosy illusion of romance; and he would resolutely
suppress all mention of--apples. But he would feature hard cider, for all that;
and he would revel in cankerworms. These blighters and borers--figuratively
speaking--when the curse of the bottle is upon them--the ink bottle--they weave
ugly words to ugly phrases for ugly books about ugly things; with ugly thoughts
of ugly deeds they chronicle life and men as dreary, sordid, base, squalid,
paltry, tawdry, mean, dismal, dull and dull again, interminably dull--vile,
flat, stale, unprofitable and insipid. No splendid folly or valiant sin--much
less impracticable idealisms, such as kindness, generosity, faith, forgiveness,
courage, honor, friendship, love; no charm or joy or beauty, no ardors that
flame and glow. They show forth a world of beastliness and bankruptcy; they
picture life as a purposeless hell. I beg of you, sir, do not permit yourself to
be alarmed. What you hear is but the backdoor gossip of the world. And these
people do not get enough exercise. Their livers are torpid. Some of them, poor
fellows, are quite sincere--and some are merely in the fashion. It isn't true,
you know; not of all of us, all the time. Nothing is changed; there is no shadow
but proves the light; in the farthest world of any universe, in the latest
eternity you choose to mention, it will still be playing the game to run out
your hits; and there, as here, only the shirker will lie down on the job. In the
meantime, now and here, there are two things, and two only, that a man may do
with his ideals: He may hold and shape them, or tread them under foot; ripen or
rot. What, sir, the hills are steep, the sand heavy, the mire is Despond-deep;
for that reason will you choose a balky horse? Or will you follow a leader who
plans surrender? The bookshelviki have thrown away the sword before the fight.
They shriek a shameful message: "All is lost! Save yourselves who can!" The
battle is sore upon us; true. But there is another war cry than this. It was
born of a bitter hour; it was nobly boasted, and brave men made it good. Now,
and for all time to come, as the lost and furious fight reels by, men will turn
and turn again for the watchword of Verdun: "They shall not pass! They shall not
pass!" Pardon the pontifical character of these remarks. They come tardy off.
For years I have kept a safe and shameful silence when I should have been
shouting, "Janet! Donkeys!" and throwing things. I will be highbrow-beaten no
longer. I hereby resign from the choir inaudible. Modesty may go hang and
prudence be jiggered; I wear Little Miss Brag's colors for favor; I have cut me
an ellum gad, and I mean to use it on the seat of the scorner. *       *       *
*       *

"Everything in Nature is engaged in writing its own history." So says Emerson or
somebody. Here is the roll call of that lonesome bit between the Rio Grande and
Caballo Mountain. Salem, Garfield, Donahue's, Derry and Shandon; those were the
hamlets of the east side. Sound Irish, don't they? They were just what they
sound like, at first. A few Irish families, big families, half of them girls--
Irish girls; young gentlemen with a fancy to settle down settled right there or
thereabouts. That's a quick way to start settlements. There was also a sardonic
Greenhorn, to keep alive a memory of the old-time Texans, before the fences. A
hundred years older than Greenhorn was the old Mexican outpost, San Ysidro;
ruthlessly changed to Garfield when the Mississippi Valley moved in.
Transportation was the poorest ever; this was the last-won farm land of New
Mexico. Along with snakes, centipedes, little yellow bobcats, whisky, poker,
maybe a beef or two--there were other features worthy of note. Each man had to
be cook, housekeeper, hunter, laundryman, shoemaker, blacksmith, bookkeeper,
purchasing agent, miner, mason, nurse, doctor, gravedigger, interpreter,
surveyor, tailor, jailor, judge, jury and sheriff. Having no sea handy, he was
seldom a sailorman. A man who could do these things well enough to make them
work might be illiterate, but he couldn't be ignorant, not on a bet. It wasn't
possible. He knew too much. He had to do his own thinking. There was no one else
to do it for him. And he could not be wretched. He was too busy. "We may be poor
sinners, but we're not miserable"--that was a favorite saying. When they brought
in supplies or when they packed for a long trip, they learned foresight and
imagination. A right good college, the frontier; there are many who are proud of
that degree. It is easy to be hospitable, kindly and free-hearted in a thinly
settled country; it is your turn next, you know generosity from both sides; the
Golden Rule has no chance to get rusty. So they were pleasant and friendly
people. They learned cooperation by making wagon roads together, by making dams
and big irrigation ditches, and from the round-ups. They lived in the open air,
and their work was hard, they had health; there were endless difficulties to
overcome; happiness had a long start and the pursuit was merry. There was one
other great advantage--hope. They had much to hope for. Almost everything. They
wished three great wishes: Water for the fields, safety from floods, a way to
the outside world. To-day the thick and tangled _bosques_ are cleared to smiling
farms, linked by a shining network of ditches. The floods are impounded at Engle
Dam, and held there for man's uses. A great irrigation canal keeps high and
wide, with just fall enough to move the water; each foot saved of high level
means added miles of reclaimed land under the ditch. To a stranger's eye the
water of that ditch runs clearly uphill. To hold that high level the main ditch,
which is first taken out to serve the west side, crosses the Rio Grande on a
high flume to Derry; curves high and winding about the wide farm lands of
Garfield valley; is siphoned under the river for Hatch and Rodey, and then is
siphoned once again to the east side, to break out in the sunlight for the use
of Rincon Valley. Rough and crooked is made smooth and straight; safe bridge and
easy grade, a modern highway follows up the valley, with a brave firefly
twinkling by night, to join the great National Trail at Engle Dam. This is what
they dreamed amid sand and thorn--and their dreams have all come true. Now who
can say which was better, the hoping or the having? It was pleasant enough, at
least, on this day of hoping. Stargazer shuffled by farm and farm, and turned
aside at last to where, with ax and pick and team and tackle, a big man was
grubbing up mesquite roots. Unheeded, for the big man wrought sturdily, Charlie
rode close; elbow on saddlehorn, chin on hand, he watched the work with mingled
interest and pity. "There," he said, and shuddered--"there, but for the grace of
God, goes Charlie See!" The big man straightened up and held a hand to his
aching back. His face was brown and his hair was red, his eyes were big and blue
and merry, and his big, homely, honest mouth was one broad grin. "Why, if it
ain't Nubbins! Welcome, little stranger! Hunting saddle horses--again?" "Why,
no, Big Boy--I'm not. Not this time." Big Boy rubbed the bridge of his nose,
disconcerted. "You always was before. Not horses? Well, well! What say we go
a-visitin', then?" He squinted at the low sun. "I'll call this a day, and we'll
mosey right home to my little old shack, and wolf down a few eggs and such. Then
we'll wash our hands and faces right good, catch us up some fresh horses out of
the pasture, and terrapin up the road a stretch. Bully big moonlight night." He
began unhooking his team. "Fine! I just love to ride. Only came about fifty
miles to-day, too." "I was thinkin' some of droppin' in on old man Fenderson. I
ain't been over there since last night. Coalie! You, Zip! Ged-dap!" "Mr. Adam
Forbes," said Charlie, "I've got you by the foot!" *       *       *       *
*

"Now if you was wishful of any relaxations," said Adam after supper, "you might
side me up in the feet hills to-morrow, prospectin'." "I might," said Charlie;
"and then again I mightn't. Don't you go and bet on it." Adam stropped his
razor. "You know there's three canyons headin' off from MacCleod's Tank Park?
And the farthest one, that big, steep, rough, wide, long, high, ugly, sandy,
deep gash that runs anti-gogglin' north, splittin' off these spindlin' little
hills from the main Caballo and Big Timber Mountain--ever been through that?
'Pache Canyon, we call it--though we got no license to." "Part way," said
Charlie. Then his voice lit up with animation. "Say, Big Chump, that's it! Them
warty little hills here--that's what makes us look down on you folks the way we
do. And here I thought all along it was because you was splay-foot farmers, and
unfortunate, you know, that way like all nesters is. But blamed if I don't think
it was them hills, all the time. We got regular old he-mountains, we have. But
these here little old squatty hills clutterin' up your back yard--why, Adam,
they ain't respectable, them hills ain't--squanderin' round where a body might
stub his toe on 'em, any time. You ought to pile 'em up, Adam. They look plumb
shiftless." "That listens real good to me. You got more brains than people say."
Adam scraped tranquilly at cheek and chin, necessitating an occasional pause in
his speech. "Now you can see for yourself how plumb foolish and futile a little
runt of a man seems to a people that ain't never been stunted." "'Seems' is a
right good word," said Charlie. He blew out a smoke ring. "You sure picked the
very word you wanted, that time. I didn't think you had sense enough." Adam
passed an appraising finger tip over his brown cheek; he stirred up fresh
lather. "Yes," he said musingly, "a little sawed off sliver like you sure does
look right comical to a full-grown man. Like me. Or Hob Lull." He paused, brush
in air, to regard his guest benignantly. "I wonder if girls feel that way too?
Miss Lyn Dyer, now? Lull, he hangs round there right smart--and he's a fine,
big, upstanding man." He lathered his face and rubbed it in. "First off, I fixed
to assassinate him quiet, from behind. You know them two girls don't hardly know
where they do live--always together, Harkey's house or Fenderson's. So I
mistrusted, natural enough, that 'twas Miss Edith he was waitin' on. But I was
mistook. Just in time to save his life from my bloody and brutal designs he
began tolling Miss Lyn to one side to look at sunsets and books and such, givin'
me a chance to buzz Miss Edith alone. Good thing for him. That's why I'm lettin'
you tag along to-night--you can entertain Pete Harkey and Ma Fenderson and the
old man, so's they won't pester me and Hobby." "Like fun I will! If you fellows
had any decent feeling at all you'd both of you clear out and give me a chance."
"Now, deary, you hadn't ought to talk like that--indeed you hadn't!" protested
Adam. "You plumb distress me. You ought to declare yourself, feller. I'd always
hate it if I was to slay you, and then find out I'd been meddlin' with Hobby
Lull's private affairs. I'd hate that--I sure would!" "Well now, there's no use
of your askin' me for advice." Charlie's eyebrows shrugged, and so did his
shoulders. "You'll have to decide these things for yourself. Say, you mangy,
moth-eaten, slab-sided, long, lousy, lop-eared parallelopipedon, are you goin'
to be all night dollin' up? Let's ride!" "Don't blame you for bein' impatient.
Hob, he's there now." Face and voice expressed fine tolerance; Adam looked into
a scrap of broken mirror for careful knotting of a gay necktie. "I won't be
sorry to see Hob once more, at that," observed Charlie. "Always liked Lull. Took
to him first time I ever saw him. That was seven years ago, when I was only a
kid." "Only a kid! Only--Great Caesar's ghost, what are you now?" "I'm twenty-
five years old in my stocking feet. And here's how I met up with Lull. El Paso
had a big ball game on with Silver City, and Hob, he wanted to be umpire. Nobody
on either team would hear of it, and not one of the fifteen hundred rip-roarin',
howlin' fans. It was sure a mean mess while it lasted. You see, there was a lot
of money up on the game." "And who umpired?" "Hob." IV

"Money was so scarce in that country that the babies had to cut their  teeth on
certified checks." --_Bluebeard for Happiness._

"The cauldrified and chittering truth." --THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD. "As I was
a-tellin' you, when I got switched off," said Adam, in the starlit road, "I
found gold dust in 'Pache Canyon nigh onto a year ago. Not much--just a color--
but it set me to thinkin'." "How queer!" said Charlie. "Yes, ain't it? You see,
a long time ago, when the 'Paches were thick about here, they used to bring in
gold to sell--coarse gold, big as rice, nearly. Never would tell where they got
it; but when they wanted anything right bad they was right there with the stuff;
coarse gold. All sorts of men tried all sorts of ways to find out where it came
from. No go." "Indians are mighty curious about gold," said Charlie. "Over in
the Fort Stanton country, the Mescaleros used to bring in gold that same way--
only it was fine gold, there. Along about 1880, Llewellyn, he was the agent; and
Steve Utter, chief of police; and Dave Easton, he was chief clerk; and Dave
Pelman and Dave Sutherland--three Daves--and old Pat Coghlan--them six, they
yammered away at one old buck till at last he agreed to show them. He was to get
a four-horse team, harness and wagon, and his pick of stuff from the commissary
to load up the wagon with. They was to go by night, and no other Indian was ever
to know who told 'em, before or after--though how he proposed to account for
that wagonload of plunder I don't know. I'll say he was a short-sighted Injun,
anyway. "Well, they started from the agency soon after midnight. They had to go
downstream about a quarter, round a fishhook bend, on account of a mess of wire
fence; and then they turned up through a _cienaga_ on a corduroy road, sort of a
lane cut straight through the swamp, with the _tules_--cat-tail flags, you know
--eight or ten feet high on each side. They was going single file, mighty quiet,
Mister Mescalero-man in the lead. They heard just a little faint stir in the
_tules_, and a sound like bees humming. Mister Redskin he keels over, shot full
of arrows. Not one leaf moving in the _tules_; all mighty still; they could hear
the Injun pumping up blood, glug--glug--glug! The white men went back home
pretty punctual. Come daylight they go back, police and everything. There lays
their guide with nine arrows through his midst. And that was the end of him.
"But that wasn't the end of the gobbling gold. Fifteen years after, Pat Coghlan
and Dave Sutherland--the others having passed on or away, up, down, across or
between--they throwed in with a lad called Durbin or something, and between them
they honey-swoggled an old Mescalero named Falling Pine, and led him astray. It
took nigh two months, but they made a fetch of it. Old Falling Pine, he allowed
to lead 'em to the gold. "Now as the years passed slowly by, Lorena, the
Mescaleros had got quite some civilized; this old rooster, he held out for two
thousand plunks, half in his grimy clutch, half on delivery. He got it. And they
left Tularosa, eighteen miles below the agency, and ten miles off the
reservation, about nine o'clock of a fine Saturday night. "Well, sir, four miles
above Tularosa the wagon road drops off the mesa down to a little swale between
a sandstone cliff and Tularosa Creek. They turned a corner, and there was nine
big bucks, wrapped up in blankets, heads and all! There wasn't no arrows, and
there wasn't nothing said. Not a word. Those nine bucks moved up beside Falling
Pine, real slow, one at a time. Each one leaned close, pulled up a flap of the
blanket, and looked old Falling Pine in the eye, nose to nose. Then he wrapped
his blanket back over his face and faded away. That was all. "It was a great
plenty. The plot thinned right there. Falling Pine, he handed back that thousand
dollars advance money, like it was hot, and he beat it for Tularosa. They wanted
him to try again, to tell 'em where the stuff was, anyhow; they doubled the
price on him. He said no--not--_nunca_--nixy--_neinte_--he guessed not--_nada_--
not much--never! He added that he was going to lead a better life from then on,
and wouldn't they please hush? And what I say unto you is this: How did them
Indians know--hey?" "Don't ask me," said Adam. "I've heard your story before,
Charles--only your dead Injun had thirty-five arrows for souvenirs, 'stead of
nine. The big idea was, of course, that where gold is found the white man comes
along, and the Indian he has to move. But all this is neither here nor there,
especially here, though heaven only knows what might have been under happier
circumstances not under our control, as perhaps it was, though we are all liable
to make mistakes in the best regulated families; yet perhaps I could find it in
my heart to wish it were not otherwise, as the case may be." "Nine arrows!" said
Charlie firmly. "Young fellow!" said Adam severely. "Be I telling this story or
be I not? I been tryin' to relate about this may-be-so gold of mine, ever since
you come--and dad burn it, you cut me off every time. I do wish you'd hush!
Listen now! Of course there's placer gold all round Hillsboro; most anywheres
west of the river, for that matter. But it's all fine dust--never coarse gold
beyond the river--and it runs so seldom to the ton that no Injun would ever get
it. So, thinks I, why not look in at Apache Canyon? It's the plumb lonesomest
place I know, and I don't believe anybody ever had the heart to prospect it
good. So I went up to Worden's and worked up from the lower end. "That was last
year, and I have been prognosticatin' round, off and on, ever since, whenever I
could get away from my farmin'. I found a trace, mostly. You can always get a
color round here, and no one place better than another. But when the rains begun
this year, so I could find water to pan with, I tried it again, higher up. And
in a little flat side draw, leadin' from between two miserable little snubby
hills off all alone, too low to send much flood water down--there I begun to
find float, plumb promisin'. I started to follow it up. You know how--pan to
right and left till the stuff fails to show, mark the edge of the pay dirt, go
on up the hill and do the like again. If the gold you're followin' has been
carried down by water the streak gets narrower as you go up a hillside, and pay
dirt gets richer as it gets narrower. If the hill has been tossed about by the
hell fires down below, all bets is off and no rule works, not even the
exceptions. That's why they say gold is where you find it. But any time you find
a fan-shaped strip of color on a hill that looks like it might have stayed put,
or nearly so, it's worth while to follow it up. If you find the apex of that
triangle you're apt to strike a pocket that will land you right side up with the
great and good. Sometimes the apex has done been washed away; these water
courses have run quite elsewhere other times. Oh, quite! But there's always a
chance. Follow up a narrowing color and quit one that squanders round casual.
Them's the rules. "Well, sir, my pay dirt took to the side of that least hill,
and she was shaping right smart like a triangle. Then my water give out. I was
usin' a little tank in the rocks--no other without packing from MacCleod's Tank,
five mile. And I had to get in my last cuttin' of alfalfa--pesky stuff! I cached
my outfit and came on home. "So there you are. It's been rainin' again; and I'm
goin' out and try another whirl to-morrow, hit or miss. Go snooks with you if
you're a mind to side me. What say?" "Why, Big Chump, you're not such a bad old
hoss thief, are you? Well, I thank you just as much, and I sure hope you'll make
a ten-strike and everything like that; but, you see, I'm busy. Tell you what,
Adam--you get Hob to go along, and I'll think about it." "Oh, well, maybe it's a
false alarm anyway," said Adam lightly. "I've known better things to fizzle. I
get my fun, whatever happens. I can't stay cooped up on that measly old farm all
the time. I need a little fresh air every so often. I'm a lot like Thompson's
colt, that swum the river to get a drink." "Don't like farmin', eh?" "Why, yes,
I do. Beats hellin' round, same as a stack of hay beats a stack of chips.
They're right nice people here, Charlie, mighty pleasant and friendly and plumb
cheerful about the good time coming. And every last one of 'em is here because
this is the very place he wants to be, and not because he happened to be here
and didn't know how to get away. That makes a power of difference. They're plumb
animated, these folks; if so be they ain't just satisfied any place, they rise
up and depart. So we have no grand old grouches. All the same, I'm free to admit
that I haven't quite the elbowroom I need." "I know just how you feel," said
Charlie; "I've leased a township and fenced it in. That's why I'm not at some
round-up; all my bossies right at home. And dog-gone if I don't feel like I was
in jail. But you people can't be making much real money, Adam--hauling over such
roads as these. It is forty miles from place to place, in here, while out in the
open it is only thirty or maybe twenty-five. That's on account of the sand and
the curly places. And then you have nothing to do in the wintertime." "Well,
now, it ain't so bad as you'd think--not near. We raise plenty eggs, chickens,
pork and such truck, and fruit and vegetables. Lots of milk and butter, too; not
like when we didn't have anything but cows. Some of us have our little bunch of
cattle in the foothills yet, and fat the steers on alfalfa, and get money for
'em when we sell. But that won't last long, I reckon. We're beginning to grow
hogs on alfalfa and fat 'em on corn, smoke 'em and salt 'em and cross 'em with T
and ship 'em to El Paso. I judge that ham, bacon and pork will be the main crops
presently. "Then we hurled up a grist mill since you was here, cooperative. Hob,
he got up that. And we got a good wagon road through the mountain, to Upham.
Goes up Redgate and out by MacCleod's Tank. Steepish, but no sand; when we get a
car of stuff to ship we can haul twice as much as we can take to Rincon. We
can't buy nothing at Upham, sure enough, and sometimes have to wait for our
cars. But we can have stuff shipped to Upham from El Paso, and it's downhill
coming back. Also, Hobby allows this Upham project will ably assist Rincon to
wake up and build us a road up the valley." "Hobby invented this wagon road, did
he?" "Every bit. We all chipped in to do the work. But Hob furnished the idea.
That ain't all, either. From now on, we're going to have plenty to do,
wintertimes. Mr. See, we got a factory up and ready to start. Yessir!" "Easy,
Big Chump! You'll strain yourself." "Straight goods--no joking." "Must be a hell
of a factory!" "She's all right, son. A home-grown factory. You go look at her
to-morrow. Broom factory. Yessir! Every man jack of us raised a patch of broom
corn. We sell it to ourselves or buy it of ourselves, whichever way you like it
best; and anybody that wants to make brooms does that little thing. We ship from
Upham and divvy up surplus. Every dollar's worth of broom corn draws down one
dollar's share of the net profit, and every dollar's worth of labor does just
that--no more, no less. It works out--with good faith and fair play." "Hob?"
said Johnny. "That's the man." Adam Forbes let his hand rest for a moment on the
younger man's shoulder. "Charlie, you and me are all right in our place--but
there ain't goin' to be no such place much longer. I reckon we ain't keepin' up
with the times. So now you know why I wanted you should go prospectin' with me.
Birds of a feather gather no moss." "I judge maybe you're right. We both of us
favor Thompson's colt, and that's a fact. Well, I am glad old Hob is making
good. We had as good a chance as he did, only he had more sense." "Always did,"
said Forbes heartily. "But he ain't makin' no big sight of money, if that's what
you mean. Just making good. He's not working for Hob Lull especially. He's
working for all hands and the cook. Hob always tries to get us to work together,
like on a _'cequia_. There's other things--a heap of 'em. We've bought a
community threshing machine. Hob has coaxed a lot of 'em into keeping bees. And
he's ribbin' us up to try a cannin' factory in a year or two, for tomatoes and
fruit. And a creamery, later. Hob is one long-headed young people. We aim to
send him to represent for us sometime." Charlie See laughed. "Gosh! I wish you'd
hurry up about it, then." But there was no bitterness in his mirth. V

"Never pray for rain on a rising barometer." --_Naval Regulations._

"Married men always make the worst husbands." --_The Critic on the Hearth._

"Although, contrary to his custom, he had a lady on his knee, he  instructed the
young prince in his royal duties." --ANATOLE FRANCE. Lyn Dyer lived with Uncle
Dan in a little crowded house. Across the way stood a big lonesome house; there
Edith Harkey lived with Daddy Pete. Pete Harkey was a gentle, quiet and rather
melancholy old man; Dan Fenderson was a fat, jolly and noisy youth of fifty. In
relating other circumstances within the knowledge of the Border it would have
been in no degree improper to have put the emphasis on the names of those two
gentlemen. But this is "another story"; it is fitting that the youngsters take
precedence; Lyn Dyer and Uncle Dan, Edith and her father. Lyn Dyer--Carolyn, Lyn
--had known no mother but Aunt Peg. The crowding of the little house was well
performed by Lyn's three young cousins, Danjunior, Tomtom and Peggy. The big
house had been lonesome for ten years now. Edith's sisters and her one brother
were all her seniors, all married, and all living within eye flight; two at
Hillsboro, a scant twenty-five miles beyond the river--but the big house was not
less lonesome for that. The little crowded house and the big lonesome house were
half way between Garfield post office and Derry. Both homes were in Sierra
County, but they were barely across the boundary; the county line made the
southern limit of each farm. This was no chance but a choosing, and that a
pointed one; having to do with that other story of those two old men. In Dona
Ana County taxes were high and life was cheap. Since the Civil War, Dona Ana had
been bedeviled by the rule of professional politicians. Sierra--aside from Lake
Valley and Hillsboro--had very little ruling and needed less; commonly enough
there was only one ticket for county officers, and that was picked by a
volunteer committee from both parties. Sierra was an American county, and took
pride that she had kept free from feuds and had no bandits within her borders.
Not that Mexicans were such evildoers. But where there was an overwhelming
Mexican vote there was a large purchasable vote; which meant that purchasers
took office. Unjust administration followed--oppression, lawsuits and
lawlessness, revenge, bloodshed, feuds, anarchy. Result: More expense, more
taxes, more bribing, more bribers, more oppression to recoup the cost of
officeholding. _Caveat pre-emptor_--let the homesteader beware! That unhappy
time is now past and done with. "Lyn! Lyn! Edith! Do come here and see what Adam
Forbes has brought in," grumbled Uncle Dan. "Another cowboy, and you just got
rid of Tom Bourbonia. It does beat all!" Mr. Fenderson, uttering the above
complaint, stood on his porch in the light from his open door and struck hands
with two men there; after which he slapped them violently on the back. "Come
in!" cried Lyn from the doorway. Her eyes were shining. She dropped a curtsy.
"'Come in, come in--ye shall fare most kind!'" "Don't you believe Uncle Dan,"
said Edith. "We tried every way to make Tommy stay over--didn't we, Lyn?" The
story is not able to give an exact record of the next minutes. Of the five young
people--for Mr. Hobby Lull was there, as prophesied--of the five young people,
five were talking at once; and Uncle Dan, above them all, boomed directions to
Danjunior as to the horses of his visitors. "Daniel! Stop that noise!" said Aunt
Peg severely. "You boys come on in the house. Mr. Charlie, I'm glad to see you."
"Now, here!" protested Forbes. "Isn't anybody going to be glad to see me?" "But,
Adam, we can see you any time," explained Edith. "While Mr. See--"

"Her eyes went twinkle, twinkle, but her nose went 'Sniff! Sniff!'" said Adam
dolefully. "Excuse me if I seem to interrupt." "But Mr. See--"

"Charlie," said See. "But Charlie makes himself a stranger. We haven't seen you
for six months, Mr. See." "Charlie," said Mr. See again. "Six months and eight
days." Mr. Hobby Lull sighed dreamily. "Dear me! It doesn't seem over two
weeks!" A mesquite fire crackled in the friendly room. The night air bore no
chill; it was the meaning of that fire to be cheerful; the wide old fireplace
was the heart of the house. Adam Forbes spread his fingers to the blaze and
sighed luxuriously. "Charlie, when you build your house you want a fireplace
like this in every room. Hob, who's going to sell Charlie a farm?" "What's the
matter with yours?" Adam appeared a little disconcerted at this suggestion.
"That idea hadn't struck me, exactly," he confessed. "But it may come to that
yet. Lots of things may happen. I might find my placer gold, say. Didn't know I
was fixing to find a gold mine, did you? Well, I am. I wanted Charlie to go
snooks with me, but he hasn't got time. Me, I've been projectin' and pirootin'
over the pinnacles after that gold for a year now, and I've just about got it
tracked to its lair. To-morrow--"

"Oh, gold!" said Lyn disdainfully, and wrinkled her nose. "_Ain't I told you a
hundred times--                Baby! Ain't I told you a hundred times,
There ain't no money in the placer mines? Baby!_"

"Lyn! Wherever do you pick up such deplorable songs?" said Aunt Peg, highly
scandalized. "But she's right, Adam. The best gold is like that in the old fable
--buried under your apple trees. You dig there faithfully and you will need no
placer mines." White Edith turned to Charlie See. "If you really intend to buy a
farm here you ought to be getting about it. You might wait too long, Mr. See."
"Charlie. Exactly what do you mean by that remark, my fair-haired child?" "Here!
This has gone far enough!" declared Hob. "We men have got to stand together--or
else pull stakes and go where the women cease from troubling and the weary are
at rest. Don't you let her threats get you rattled, Charlie See. We'll protect
you." "Silly! I meant, of course, that the Mexicans are not selling their lands
cheaply now, as they used to do." "Not so you could notice it," said Uncle Dan.
"Those that wanted to sell, they've sold and gone, just about all of them. What
few are left are the solid ones. Not half-bad neighbors either. Pretty good
sort. They're apt to stick." "Not long," said Hobby rather sadly. "They'll go,
and we'll go too, most of us. The big dam will be built, some time or other;
we'll be offered some real money. We'll grab it and drift. Strangers will take
comfort where we've grubbed out stumps. We are the scene shifters. The play will
take place later. 'Sall right; I hope the actors get a hand. But I hate to think
of strangers living--well, in this old house. Say, we've had some happy times
here." "Won't you please hush?" said Adam. "Why so doleful? There's more happy
times in stock. This bunch don't have to move away. Why, when I get my gold mine
in action we can all live happy ever after. To-morrow--"

"Hobby is right," said Aunt Peg. "Pick your words as you please, bad luck or
improvidence on the one side, thrift or greed on the other--yes, and as many
more words of praise or blame as you care for; and the fact remains that the
people who care for other things more than they do for money are slowly crowded
out by the people who care more for money than for anything else." "Uncle Dan,
is that why you grasping Scotchmen have crowded out the Irish round these
parts?" inquired Charlie. "McClintock, MacCleod, Simpson, Forbes, Campbell,
Monroe, Fenderson, Stewart, Buchanan--why, say, there's a raft of you here; and
across the river it is worse." "You touch there on a very singular thing, Mr.
Charlie. Not that we crowded out the Irish. There were only a few families, and
most of them are here yet. They happened to come first, and named the
settlements--that's all. But for the Scotch--you find more good Scots' names to
the hundred, once you strike the hills, than you will find to the thousand on
the plain country. Love of the hills is in the blood of them; they followed the
Rocky Mountains down from Canada." "But, Uncle Dan," said Hobby, "how did so
many of them happen to be in Canada?" "Scotland was a poor country and a cold
country, England was rich and warm, Canada was cold and hard. The English had no
call to Canada, the Hudson Bay Company captained their outflung posts with
Scotchmen; the easier that the Hanoverian kings, as a matter of policy, harried
the Jacobite clans by fair means and foul. You were speaking of across the
river. That is another curious matter. The California Company, now--ruling a
dozen dukedoms--California lends the name of it and supplied the money; but the
heads that first dreamed it were four long Scottish heads. And their brand is
the John Cross. Any stranger cowman would read that brand as J Half Circle
Cross. But we call it John Cross. And why, sirs?" "I'm sure I don't know," said
Hobby. "It was always the John Cross and it never entered my head to ask why."
"Look you there, now!" Uncle Dan held out an open palm and traced on it with a
stubby and triumphant finger. "Their fathers had served John Company, the Hudson
Bay Company! And there you are linked back with two hundred years! 'John Company
has a long arm,' they said; 'John Company lost a good man there!' How the name
began is beyond my sure knowing; but it is in my mind that it goes back farther
still, to the East India Company, to Clive and to Madras. Lyn, you are the
bookman, I'll get you to look it up some of these--Lyn! Lyn! Charlie See! The
young devils! Now wouldn't that jar you?" "A fool and his honey are soon
started," observed Adam. "We're out here, Uncle Dan; all nice and comfy. There's
a moon. And itty-bitsy stars," answered a soothing voice--Charlie See's--from
the porch. "Oodles of stars. How I wonder what they are. G'wan, Uncle Dan--tell
us about the East India Company now." Hobby Lull rose tragically and bestowed a
withering glance upon Uncle Dan. "You old fat fallacy with an undistributed
middle--see what you've done now! You and your John Company! Go to bed! Forbes,
you brought this man See. You go home!" "Overlook it this one time," urged
Forbes. "Don't send us away--the girls are going to sing. Forgive us all both,
and I'll get rid of See to-morrow." "Be sure you do, then. Lyn! Come here to
me." "Don't shoot, colonel, I'll come down," said Lyn. Her small face was
downcast and demure. Charlie See came tiptoe after her and sidled furtively to
the fire. "Sing, then," commanded Hobby. He brought the guitars and gave one to
each girl. The coals glowed on the hearth; side by side, the fair head and the
brown bent at the task of tuning. That laughing circle was scattered long ago
and it was written that never again should all those friendly faces gather by
any hearthfire--never again. It has happened so many, many times; even to you
and to me, so many, many times! But we learn nothing; we are still bitter, and
hard, and unkind--with kindness so cheap and so priceless--as if there was no
such thing as loss or change or death. And because of some hours of your own, it
is hoped you will not smile at the songs of that lost happy hour. They were old-
fashioned songs; indeed, it is feared they might almost be called Victorian.
Their bourgeois simplicity carried no suggestive double meaning. "When other
lips and other hearts"--that was what they sang, brown Lyn and white Edith.
Kirkconnel Lea they sang, and Jeanie Morrison, and Rosamond:

_Rose o' the world, what man would wed      When he might dream of your face
instead?_

Folly? Perhaps. Perhaps, too, in a world where we can but love and where we must
lose, it may be no unwisdom if only love and loss seem worth the singing. The
swift hour passed. The last song, even as the first, was poignant with the happy
sadness of youth:

_When my heart is sad and troubled,        Then my quivering lips shall say,_
"_Oh! by and by you will forget me,        By and by when far away!_"

Good-bys were said at last; Forbes and See put foot to stirrup and rode jingling
into the white moonlight; the others stood silent on the porch and watched them
go. A hundred yards down the road, Adam Forbes drew rein. A guitar throbbed low
behind them. "Hark," he said. Edith Harkey stood in the shaft of golden light
from the doorway; she bore herself like the Winged Victory; her voice thrilled
across the quiet of the moonlit night:

"_Never the nightingale,        Oh, my dear! Never again the lark        Thou
wilt hear;      Though dusk and the morning still_

"_Tap at thy window-sill,      Though ever love call and call      Thou wilt not
hear at all,        My dear, my dear!_"

The sad notes melted into the sweet pagan heartbreak of the enchanted night.
They turned to go. "A fine girl," said Adam Forbes. "The only girl! To-morrow--"

He fell silent; again in his heart that parting cadence knelled with keen and
intolerable sorrow. The roots of his hair prickled, ants crawled on his spine.
So tingles the pulsing blood, perhaps, when a man is fey, when the kisses of his
mouth are numbered. Edith went home to the big lonely house, but Lyn Dyer and
Hobby Lull lingered by the low fire. Mr. Lull assumed a dignified pose before
the fireplace, feet well apart and his hands clasped behind his back. He
regarded Miss Dyer with a twinkling eye. "Have you anything to say to the court
before sentence is pronounced?" he inquired with lofty judicial calm. Miss Dyer
avoided his glance. She stood drooping before him; she looked to one side at the
floor; she looked to the other side at the floor. The toe of her little shoe
poked and twisted at a knot in the floor. "Extenuating circumstances?" she
suggested hopefully. "Name them to the court." "The--the moon, I guess." The
inquisitive shoe traced crosses and circles upon the knot in the flooring. "And
Charlie See," she added desperately. "Charlie has such eloquent eyes, Hobby--
don't you think?" She raised her little curly head for a tentative peep at the
court; her own eyes were shining with mischief. The court unclasped its hands.
"I ought to shake you," declared Hobby. But he did not shake her at all. "You're
the only young man in Garfield who wears his face clean-shaven," remarked Lyn
reflectively, a little later. "Charlie would look much better without a
mustache, I think." He pushed her away and tipped up her chin with a gentle hand
so that he could look into her eyes. "Little brown lady with curly eyes and
laughing hair--are you quite fair to Charlie See?" "No," said Lyn contritely,
"I'm not. I suppose we ought to tell him." "We ought to tell everybody. So far
as I am concerned, I would enjoy being a sandwich man placarded in big letters:
'Property of Miss Lyn Dyer.'" "Why, Hobbiest--I thought it was rather nice that
we had such a great big secret all our own. But you're right--I see that now. I
should have met him at the door, I suppose, and said, 'You are merely wasting
your time, Mr. See. I will never desert my Wilkins!' Only that might have been a
little awkward, in a way, because, you see, 'Nobody asked you to,' he said--or
might have said." "He never told you, then?" "Not a word." "But you knew?"
"Yes," said Lyn. "I knew." She twisted a button on his coat and spoke with a
little wistful catch in her voice. "I do like him, Hobby--I can't help it. Only
so much." She indicated how much on the nail of a small finger. "Just a little
teeny bit. But that little bit is--"

"Strictly plutonic?" "Yes," she said in a small meek voice. "How did you know?
He makes me like him, Hobbiest. It--it scares me sometimes." "Pretty cool, I'll
say, for a girl that has only been engaged a week, if you should happen to ask
me." "Oh, but that's not the same thing--not the same thing at all! You couldn't
keep me from liking you, not if you tried ever so hard. That is all settled. But
Charlie makes me like him. You see, he is such a real people; I feel like the
Griffin did about the Minor Canyon: 'He was brave and good and honest, and I
think I should have relished him.'" Hobby held her at arm's length and regarded
her quizzically. "So young, and yet so tender?" "'So young, my lord, and true.'"
"Well," said Hobby resignedly, "I suppose we'll have to quarrel, of course. They
all do. But I don't know how to go about it. What do I say next?" "I might as
well tell you the worst, angelest pieface. You ought to know what a shocking
horrid little creature your brown girl really is. You won't ever tell--honest-
to-goodness, cross-your-heart-and-hope-to-die?" "Never." "Say it, then."
"Honest-to-goodness, cross-my-heart-and-hope-to-die." She buried her face on his
breast. "I dreamed about him last night, Hobby. Wasn't that queer? I hadn't
thought of him before for months--weeks, anyhow." "A week, maybe?" suggested
Hobby. "Oh, more than that! Two weeks, at the very least. I--I hate to tell
you," she whispered. "I--I dreamed I liked him almost as much as I do you!"
"Why, you brazen little bigamist!" "Yes, I am--I mean, ain't I?" she assented
complacently, for his arms belied his words. "But that's not the worst, Hobbiest
--that's not nearly the dreadfulest. When I woke up I--I wrote some--some verses
about my dream. Are you awfully angry? We'll burn them together after you read
them." "Woman, produce those verses! I will take charge of them as 'Exhibit A.'"
"And then you'll beat me, please?" "Oh, no," said Hobby magnanimously. "That's
nothing! Pish, tush! Why, Linoleum, I feel that way about lots of girls. Molly
Sullivan, now--"

"Hobby!" "I always like to dream of Molly. One of the best companions to take
along in a dream--"

"Only-est! Please don't!" "Well, then," said Hobby, "I won't--on one condition.
It is to be distinctly understood under no circumstances are you ever to call me
Charlie. I won't stand for it. Dig up your accursed doggerel!" This is what
Hobby Lull read aloud, with exaggerated fervor, while Lyn huddled by the dying
fire and hid her burning face in her hands:

_Last night I kissed you as you slept,       For all night long I dreamed of
you;      Lower and low the hearth fire crept,       The embers glowed and
dimmed; we two      Heard the wind rave at bolt and door       With all the
world shut out and fast,      Doubted, hoped, questioned, feared no more,
And all we sought was ours at last._

_I do not love you, dear. I never loved you,       Grudged what I gave, a
wayward tenderness;      Yet in my dream I wooed you with white arms       And
lingering soft caress. Now for all years to come I must remember,       When
fires burn dim and low,      This false dear dream of mine, that stolen hour--
Your face of long ago._

_I shall awaken in some midnight lonely,       I shall remember you as one
apart,      How for one hour of dream I loved you only       And held you in my
heart. And you, through all the years since first you met me       Still let my
memory gleam;      Oh, my old lover! Do not quite forget me! I loved you--in my
dream!_

Hobby cleared his throat impressively, tapped his table with the paper, and
assumed measured judicial accents. "This incriminating document proves--hah--
hum--"

"To the satisfaction of the court," prompted Lyn in a muffled voice. "To the
satisfaction of the court--I thank you! To the very great satisfaction of the
court, this document, together with the barefaced manner in which you have
brought this evidence to the cognizance of this court--it proves, little Lady
Lyn, that you are compact all of loyalty and clean honor--and the sentence of
this court is, Imprisonment for life!" He held out his arms, and the culprit
crept gladly to prison. VI

"Then there was a star danc'd, and under that was I born." --_Much Ado About
Nothing._

Cole Ralston rose up in a red windy dawn; he cupped his hands to his mouth and
called out lustily: "Beds!" All around, men roused up in the half darkness and
took up the word, laughing, as they dressed: "Beds! Beds!" The call meant that
the wagon was to be moved to-day; that each man was to roll bedding and tarp to
a hard and tight-roped cylinder, and was then to carry it to a stack by the bed
wagon. The cook bent over pots and pans, an active demon by a wind-blown fire;
here already the bobtail ate their private breakfast, that they might depart in
haste to relieve the last guard--now slowly moving the herd from the bed ground,
half a mile away. Cole moved over where Johnny Dines was making up his bed roll.
"Needn't hurry with that bed, Johnny," he said in an undertone. "You move the
wagon to Preisser Lake this mornin'. Besides, you may want to hold something out
of your bed. You're to slip away after dinner and edge over towards Hillsboro.
Help Hiram bring his cattle back when he gets ready. Tell him we'll be round
Aleman all this week, so he might better come back through MacCleod's Pass. I
don't know within fifty mile where the John Cross wagon is." Johnny nodded,
abandoning his bed making. "_Bueno, senor!_" He took a pair of leather
chaparejos from the bed, regarded them doubtfully and threw them back. "Guess I
won't take the chaps. Don't need them much except on the river work, in the
mesquite; and they're so cussed, all-fired hot." "Say, John, you won't need your
mount, I reckon. Just take one horse. Lot of our runaway horses in the John
Cross pasture. You can ride them--and take your pick for your mount when you
come back. That's all. Road from Upham goes straight west through the mountains.
Once you pass the summit you see your own country." "Got you," said Johnny. He
went hotfoot to the wagon, grabbed a tin washbasin, held it under the water-
barrel faucet and made a spluttering toilet--first man, since he had not rolled
his bed. The bobtail rode off at a laughing gallop. Daylight grew. The horse
herd drew near with a soft drumming of trotting feet in the sand. Johnny rustled
tools from the stacked tin plates and cups; he stabbed a mighty beefsteak with
his iron fork; he added hot sour-dough biscuit, a big spoonful of hot canned
corn; he poured himself a cup of hot black coffee, sat down on one of his own
feet in the sand, and became a busy man. Others joined that business. The last
guard came in; the chattering circle round the fire grew with surprising
swiftness. Each, as he finished, carried cup, plate and iron cutlery to the huge
dishpan by the chuck box, turned his night horse loose, and strode off to the
horse herd, making a noose in his rope. They made a circle round the big horse
herd, a rope from each to each by way of a corral on three sides of it; night
wrangler and day wrangler, mounted, holding down the fourth side. Grumbling
dayherders caught their horses, saddled with miraculous swiftness and departed
to take over the herd. The bobtail was back before the roping out of horses was
completed. While the bobtail roped out their horses, Johnny and the two
wranglers lured out the four big brown mules for the chuck wagon and the two
small brown mules for the bed wagon, tied them to convenient soapweeds and hung
a nose bag full of corn on each willing brown head. Last of all the horse
wrangler caught his horse. The night wrangler was to ride the bed wagon, so he
needed no horse. The circle of men melted away from about the horse herd; there
was a swift saddling, with occasional tumult of a bucking rebel; the horse herd
grazed quietly away; the wranglers went to breakfast; even as they squatted
cross-legged by the fire the last horse was saddled, the Bar Cross outfit was
off to eastward to begin the day's drive, half a dozen horses pitching
enthusiastically, cheered by ironical encouragement and advice bestowed on their
riders. The sun would not be up for half an hour yet. Forty men had dressed,
rolled their beds, eaten, roped out their day's horses in the half light from a
dodging mob of four hundred head, saddled and started. Fifty minutes had passed
since the first call of beds. The day herd was a mile away, grazing down the
long road to Preisser Lake; at the chuck box the cook made a prodigious clatter
of dish washing. The Bar Cross had shipped the north drive of steers from Engle;
the wagon had then wandered southward for sixty miles to Fort Selden, there to
begin the south work in a series of long zigzags across the broad plain. This
was the morrow after that day on which Charlie See had ridden to Garfield. The
wagon was halfway home to Engle now; camped on the central run-off of the desert
drainage system, at the northmost of the chain of shallow wet-weather lakes--
known as Red Lakes--lying east and south from Point of Rocks Hills. Elsewhere
these had been considerable hills; ten or fifteen miles square of steepish sugar
loaves, semi-independent, with wide straits of grassy plain winding between; but
here, dumped down in the center of the plain, they seemed pathetically
insignificant and paltry against the background of mighty hill, Timber Mountain
black in the west, San Andreas gleaming monstrous against the rising sun.
Theoretically, the Jornada was fifty miles wide here; in reality it was much
wider; in seeming it was twice as wide. From Red Lakes as a center you looked up
an interminable dazzle of slope to the San Andreas, up and up over a broken
bench country to Timber Mountain, the black base of it high above the level of
Point o' Rocks at its highest summit; and toward the north looked up and up and
up again along a smoother and gentler slope ending in a blank nothingness,
against which the eye strained vainly. Johnny sipped another cup of coffee with
the wranglers; he smoked a cigarette; he put on fresh clothing from his bed; he
took his gun from his bed and buckled the belt loosely at his waist. His toilet
completed, he rolled his bed. By this time the wranglers had breakfasted. They
piled the bed rolls high on the bed wagon and roped them tight for safe riding;
they harnessed and hitched the two small mules. The night wrangler tied the
reins to the dashboard and climbed to the top of the stacked bedding. "You see
that these mules get started, will you, Pat? I'm going to sleep. They'll tag
along after the chuck wagon if you'll start 'em once," said the night wrangler.
Discipline did not allow the night wrangler a name. He stretched out
luxuriously, his broad hat over his face. Johnny and Pat--Pat was the horse
wrangler--hitched the four mules to the chuck wagon, after which Pat rounded up
his scattered charges and drove them down to the lake for water. All this time
the red-head cook had been stowing away his housekeeping, exactly three times as
fast as you would expect three men to do it. A good cook, a clean cook, swiftest
of all cooks, Enriquez--also despot and holy terror as a side line. Henry was
the human hangnail. It is a curious thing that all round-up cooks are cranks; a
fact which favors reflection. If it be found that cooking and ferocity stand in
the relation of cause to effect, a new light is thrown on an old question. The
last Dutch oven was stowed away, the lid of the chuck box snapped shut and
locked. Johnny tossed the few remaining beds up to the cook. "Do we fill the
barrel here, Henry?" "No. Dees water muddy. Preisser Lake she am deep and clean.
De company ees buil' a dam dere, yes. Han' me dees lines. You Mag! Jake! Rattle
yo' hocks!" With creaking of harness and groaning of axle, the chuck wagon led
off on a grass-grown road winding away to the northwest, a faint track used only
by the round-up; travel kept to the old Santa Fe trail, to the west, beyond the
railroad. Johnny started the other team. Unguided, the bed wagon jounced and
bumped over grassy hummocks until it reached the old road and turned in
contentedly at the tail of the chuck wagon. The sleeping wrangler mumbled,
rolled precariously on his high lurching bed, and settled back to sleep. Johnny
laughed and rode ahead to help Pat. They drove the horses in a wide detour round
the slow-grazing day herd. But the chuck wagon held the right of way over
everything; when it came to pass the herd an hour or two later, it would be for
the herd to swerve aside. The sun was high and hot now; Preisser Hill, a thin
long shadow, rose dim above the plain; Upham tower and tank loomed high and
spectral, ahead and at the left. "How do I get from Upham to the river, Pat? I'm
new to this country." "Wagon road due west to MacCleod's Pass." "Can't see any
pass from here." "Naw. You slip into fold between the hills, and twist round
like a figure three. Then you come to a big open park and MacCleod's Tank. Three
draws run down from the park to the river. 'Pache canyon, the biggest, runs
north to nowhere; Redgate, on the left, twists round to Garfield. Wagon road
goes down Redgate. And Deadman Draw, in between, bears due west and heap down,
short and sweet. Riding?" "Yep. Hillsboro. The middle draw will be the one for
me, then." By ten o'clock they watered the horse herd at Preisser Lake; the
wagons toiled far behind. Half a mile away they picked the camp site, with a
little ridge for wind-break, soapweeds to tie night horses to, wood handy, and a
nearby valley to be a bed ground for the herd; a valley wide, open, free from
brush, gully or dog holes. They dragged up a great pile of mesquite roots and
built a fire; Pat went to watch his horses and Johnny returned to the lake.
Henry drove the wagon into the lake, hub deep; Johnny stood on the hub and
dipped buckets of water, which he handed up for the cook to pour into the
barrel. While these two filled the barrel the grumbling night wrangler drove on
to the fire; when the slow chuck wagon trundled up, the night-hawk had
unharnessed his span of mules, spread his roll in the cool shade under the bed
wagon, and was already asleep. The cook tossed down the odd beds, handed down to
Johnny certain pots, pans, ovens; he jumped down--slap, snap, clatter, flash!--
the ovens were on the fire, the chuck box open, flour in the bread pan; Henry
was at his profession, mixing bread on the table made by the open lid of the
chuck box, upheld by a hinged leg which fell into place as the lid tilted down.
Johnny unharnessed; he unrolled a tarp which wrapped a quarter of beef, and hung
the beef on the big brake; he filled the ten-gallon coffee kettle and took it to
the fire. "Henry," he said cautiously, "can you let me have some cold bread and
meat--enough for night and morning? I'm for Hillsboro. Goin' to make a dry camp
beyond the river somewhere. Hillsboro's too far and Garfield not far enough. So
I don't want to stay at the settlements to-night. I'll lay out and stake my
horse, I reckon. Got to find the John Cross wagon to-morrow, and it'll take me
all my time--so I don't want to wait for dinner." "Humph!" With a single motion
Henry flirted a shovelful of glowing coals from the fire; a second motion
twisted a small meat oven into place over those coals. A big spoonful of lard
followed. "Rustle a can and boil you some coffee. Open can tomatoes; pour 'em in
a plate. Use can. Ground coffee in box--top shelf. I'll have bread done for you
when coffee boils!" While he spoke his hands were busy. He dragged from the
chuck box a dishpan full of steaks, cut the night before. With a brisk slap he
spread a mighty steak on the chuck box lid, sprinkled it with salt, swept it
through the flour in his bread pan with precisely the wrist-twisting motion of a
man stropping a razor, and spread the steak in the hissing lard. "Cook you
another bimeby for night," he grunted, and emptied his sour-dough sponge into
the bread pan. A snappy cook, Henry; on occasion he had built dinner for thirty
men in thirty minutes, by the watch, from the time the wagon stopped--bread,
coffee, steak and fried potatoes--steak and potatoes made ready for cooking the
night before, of course. Henry had not known he was being timed, either; he was
that kind of a cook. Johnny gave thanks and ate; he rolled a substantial lunch
in a clean flour sack and tied it in his slicker behind the saddle. He rode to
the horse herd; Pat rounded up the horses and Johnny snared his Twilight horse
for the trip. Twilight was a _grullo_; that is to say, he was precisely the
color of a Maltese cat--a sleek velvet slaty-blue; a graceful, half-wild
creature, dainty muzzled, clean legged as a deer. Pat held Twilight by bit and
bridle and made soothing statements to him while Johnny saddled. Johnny slid
into the saddle, there was a brief hair-stirring session of bucking; then
Twilight sneezed cheerfully and set off on a businesslike trot. Johnny waved
good-by, and turned across the gray plain toward Upham. Looking back, he saw the
van of the day herd just showing up, a blur in the southeast. Six miles brought
him to Upham--side track, section house, low station, windmill tower and tank;
there was a deep well here. He crossed the old white scar of the Santa Fe trail,
broad, deep worn, little used and half forgotten. A new and narrow road turned
here at right angles to the old trail and led ruler-straight to the west. Johnny
followed this climbing road, riding softly; bands of cattle stirred uneasily and
made off to left or right in frantic run or shuffling trot. The road curved once
only, close to the hills, to round the head of a rock-walled, deep, narrow gash,
square and straight and sheer, reaching away toward Rincon, paralleling the
course of the mountains. No soft water-washed curves marked that grim gash; here
the earth crust had cracked and fallen apart; for twenty miles that gray crack
made an impassable barrier; between here and the bare low hills was a No Man's
Land. Midway of the twisting pass Johnny came to a gate in a drift fence strung
from bluff to bluff; here was a frontier of the Bar Cross country. He passed the
outpost hills and came out to a rolling open park, a big square corral of cedar
pickets, an earthen dam, a deep five-acre tank of water. About this tank two or
three hundred head of cattle basked comfortably in the warm sun, most of them
lying down. They were gentle cattle; Johnny rode slowly among them without
stirring up excitement. "River cattle--nester cattle," said Johnny. There were
many brands, few of which he had seen before, though he had heard of most of
them. A fresh bunch of cattle topped a riverward ridge; the leaders raised their
heads, snorted, turned and fled; Twilight leaped in pursuit. "River cattle--
_bosque_ cattle--outlaws!" said Johnny. From the tail of his eye, as Twilight
thundered across the valley, Johnny was aware of a deep gashed canyon heading in
the north, of a notch in the western rim of the saucer-shaped basin, and a dark
pass at the left. The cattle turned to the left. Johnny closed in on them,
taking down his rope from the saddle horn. Twenty head--among them one Bar Cross
cow with an unbranded calf some eight or ten months old. Johnny's noose whirled
open, he drove the spurs home and plunged into a whistling wind. He drew close,
he made his cast and missed it; Twilight swerved aside at the very instant of
the throw, the rope dragged at his legs, he fell to frantic pitching. Johnny
gathered up the rope, massaged his refractory mount with it, brought him to
reason; in time to see a dust cloud of cattle drop into the leftward pass.
Twilight flashed after. As they dived into the pass they came to the wagon road
again. "This is Redgate," thought Johnny. They careened down the steep curves,
the cattle were just ahead; Twilight swooped upon them, scattered the
tailenders, drove ahead for the Bar Cross cow and her long-ear. A low saddleback
pass appeared at the right, a winding trail led up to an overhanging promontory
under the pass; below, the wagon road made a deep cut by the base of the hill.
Distrusting the cut road as the work of man, the leaders took to the trail.
Twilight was at their heels; at the crown of the little promontory Johnny threw
again, and his rope circled the long-ear's neck. Johnny flipped the slack, the
yearling crossed it and fell crashing; Johnny leaped off and ran down the rope,
loosing the hogging string at his waist as he ran; he gathered the yearling's
struggling feet and hog-tied them. Twilight looked on, panting but complacent.
"Look proud, now do, you ridiculous old fool!" said Johnny. "Ain't you never
goin' to learn no sense a-tall? You old skeezicks! You've lost a shoe, too." He
coiled his rope and tied it to the saddle horn; from under the horn on the other
side he took a running iron, held there by a slitted leather--an iron rod three-
eighths of an inch in diameter, a foot long and shaped like a shepherd's crook.
He gathered up dead branches of mahogany bush and made a small fire, cunningly
built for a quick draft, close beside the yearling; he thrust the hook part of
the branding iron into the hottest fire; and while it was heating he returned to
give grave reprimand and instruction to Twilight. That culprit listened
attentively, bright-eyed and watchful; managing in some way to bear himself so
as to suggest a man who looks over the top of his spectacles while rubbing his
chin with a thoughtful thumb. When the iron was hot Johnny proceeded to put the
Bar Cross brand on the protesting yearling. Looking up, he became aware of a man
riding soberly down the canyon toward him. Johnny waved his hand and shoved his
iron into the fire for a second heating. The newcomer rode up the trail and
halted; a big red-headed man with a big square face and twinkling eyes. He
fished for tobacco and rolled a cigarette. "Thought I knew all the Bar Cross
waddies. You haven't been wearin' the crop and split very long, have you?" "They
just heard of me lately," explained Johnny. "I know that Twilight horse of
yours. Saw him last spring at the round-up. Purty as a picture, ain't he?"
"Humph! Pretty is as pretty does." Johnny returned to his branding. "He made me
miss my throw, and now I'm in the wrong canyon. I aimed to take the draw north
of here, for Hillsboro." The newcomer leaned on his saddle horn. "Deadman? Well,
you could cross over through this pass if you was right set on it. But it's a
mean place on the far side--slick, smooth rock. You might as well go on by way
of Garfield now. You won't lose but a mile or two, and you'll have fine company
--me. Or--say, if you're going that way, why can't you mail a letter for me?
Then I won't have to go at all. I'd be much obliged to you if you would. That
was all I was going for, to mail some location notices." "Sure I will. I kind of
want to see Garfield anyhow. Never been there. Crop and split the right. So
that's done. I'll keep this piece of ear for tally." The other took a large
envelope from his saddle pockets and handed it over. Dines stuck it in the bosom
of his flannel shirt. "I ain't got no stamps. This letter'll need two, I guess.
Here's the nickel. Will you please kindly stick 'em on for me?" "Sure," said
Dines again. He undid the yearling's legs. "Now, young fellow, go find your
mammy. Go a-snuffin'!" The yearling scrambled to his feet, bellowing. Johnny
jerked him round by the tail so that his nose pointed down the canyon; the
newcomer jumped his horse and shook a stirrup and slapped his thigh with his
hat; the yearling departed. "Well, I'll be getting on back to camp," said the
newcomer. "So long! Much obliged to you." "So long!" said Johnny. He waved his
hand. The other waved answer as he took the trail. He jogged in leisurely
fashion up the canyon. Dines paused to tread out the remaining fire, took up his
branding iron by the cool end, and rode whistling down the canyon, swinging the
iron to cool it before he slipped it to its appointed place below his saddle
horn. VII

"May God be merciful to him and to us all." --_The Advocate of Arras._

"Better come along and share my guilty splendor," urged Adam Forbes, toe to
stirrup. Charlie See shook his head. "Not none. Here I rest. Gold is nothing to
me. I've got no time for frivolity. I want but little here below and want that
little now. Say, Adam--don't you never carry a gun?" "Naw. I take a rifle, of
course, for reindeer, snow dear, dear me and antelope--but I haven't packed a
gun for two years. No need of it here. Well, if you won't side me, you won't.
I'm sorry, but you see how it is about me going right now," said Adam, swinging
into the saddle. "The water in that little tank of mine won't last long, and
there may not be any more rains this fall. So long! You just make yourself at
home." "Good luck, Adam. And you might wish me the same. While you're gone, I
may want to make a little journey from bad to worse." Adam gathered up his lead
rope. "Good luck, Charlie." But a troubled look came to his eyes as he passed
through the gate; in his heart he thought his friend rode late and vainly from
Selden Hill. The pack horse jogged alongside, his friendly head at Adam's knee.
It was earliest morning and they were still in the fresh cool shadow of the low
eastern hills. Farther north the enormous bulk of Timber Mountain loomed
monstrous in the sky, and there the shadows were deep and dense, impenetrably
black; there night lingered visible, brighter than in all the wide arc to
westward, bench-land and mighty hill were drenched with sparkling sun. Adam rode
with a pleasant jingling of spurs. He passed through Garfield town, or town-to-
be, remodeled from the old San Ysidro, the bare and grassless Mexican _plaza_
changed to the square of a Kansas town, by tree and hard-won turf; blacksmith
shop and school, with a little store and post office, clustered for company on
one side: business would fill up the three blank sides--like Columbus or
Cherryvale. For there is no new thing beneath the kindly sun. Not otherwise, far
from the plains of windy Troy, did Priam's son build and copy, in the wild hills
of Epirus:

_The little Troy, the castle Pergamus,      The river Xanthus, and the Scaean
gate._

Fringing the townlet, new gristmill and new factory stood where the mother ditch
was bridged. Beyond the bridge the roads forked. From the right hand a steep
canyon came plunging to the valley, winding dark between red-brown hills. This
canyon was Redgate; here turned the climbing road to Upham; and Adam Forbes
followed the Redgate road. At the summit he turned to the left across a corner
of MacCleod's Park; he crossed a whorl of low ridges at the head of Apache
Canyon and came to Hidden Tanks--a little limestone basin, now brimming with
rainwater, perhaps a dozen barrels in all. Adam had fenced this in with a
combination of stone wall and cedar brush, to keep cattle out. He now climbed to
a little low cliff near by. There he had cached his outfit in a little cupboard
of a cave, the floor of it shoulder high to him where he stood. Here he
unpacked. He added to the cache his little store of sugar, coffee, rice, bacon
and flour, all packed in five or ten pound baking-powder cans against the
ravages of mice, gray squirrels and trade rats. The little deep cave gave
protection against larger pests and shelter from rain. He rolled up his bedding,
lifted it into the mouth of the cave and shoved it back. Two empty five-gallon
kegs were left of his pack; he had not dared to leave them in the cache, to fall
apart in the dry and sun-parched air. These kegs he filled at the tanks and
slung on the pack saddle; with them he made his way to the hill of his hopes. It
was close by; he had hidden there his pick, shovel and the broad shallow basin
used for panning gold. He hobbled the horses; by ten o'clock, or a little later,
he was deep in the interrupted task of a month before. Freakish chance had timed
that interruption to halt him on the very brink of success. Before he had taken
out a dozen pans he was in rich dirt. Noon found him shaken from the poise and
mastery of years. Abandoning the patient and systematic follow-up system, he
pushed on up the hill, sampling at random, and finding each sample richer. The
scant supply of water was nearly gone, the gold frenzy clutched at his heart. By
sighting, he roughly developed the lines showing the probable limit of pay dirt,
as marked by the monuments of his earlier labor; he noted the intersection of
those lines, and there began a feverish panning with his remnant of water. He
found gold in flakes, in scales, in millet-seed grains--in grains like rice at
last! He had tracked down a pocket to make history with, to count time from. And
the last of his water was used. Adam sat down, trembling to think his find had
been unprotected by the shadow of a claim for the last month; reflected then
that it had lain unclaimed for some thousands of years, and with the reflection
pulled himself together and managed a grin at his own folly. He went back to his
saddle. Tucked in the saddle pockets was a goodly lunch, but he did not touch
that. He untied his coat and took out two printed location notices, several
crumply sheets of blank paper and a pencil. He filled in the blanks as the
location notice of the Goblin Gold Mine--original notice and copy. On the blank
paper he wrote out four more notices, two originals and two copies, for the Nine
Bucks Placer Claim and the Please Hush. For the Goblin Gold he wrote himself as
locator, Charles See and Howard Lull as witnesses; he reserved this for the
highest and richest claim. For the next below, Charles See was locator, Forbes
and Lull were witnesses; and the third was assigned to Howard Lull, with See and
Forbes to bear witness. Adam paced off the three claims adjoining each other and
built a stone monument at each corner, with a larger monument for the location-
papers at the center of each claim; the central monument of the Goblin Gold
about where he had made the last panning. And then, even as he started to slip
the first location notice in its monument, he lifted up his eyes and saw, across
the tangled ridges, three men riding up from the deeps of Apache Canyon. The
cool judgment that had brought him safe through a thousand dangers was warped
now by the fever and frenzy of gold lust; his canny instinct against disaster
failed him in his need. There must be no shadow of irregularity on these claims,
his hot brain reasoned; his find was too rich for chance-taking in the matter of
mythical witnesses; yonder, by happy and unlooked for chance, were witnesses
indeed; he must have their names to his location notices, and then he would get
the copies to Hillsboro for recording at the earliest; he would mail them in
Garfield post office that very afternoon. He reversed his pencil and erased the
names of his fictitious witnesses; he saddled his horse and rode to intercept
the three horsemen, half a mile away now, trailing slowly across the park toward
MacCleod's Tanks. He waved them to stop. As he drew near he knew two of the men
--Jody Weir, of Hillsboro, and Big Ed Caney, a deputy sheriff from Dona Ana
County; two men he trusted not at all. Time was he would have deemed this
conjunction sinister; to-day, madness was upon him. The third was a stranger.
Each man had a blanket and a bulging slicker tied behind his saddle. Evidently
they carried rations for several days' camping. "Hello, Adam!" "You're another--
three of 'em. Got any water in those canteens? If I was to do a piece of
wishin', right now, I'd mention water first off. This is sure one old scorcher
of a day! She's a weather breeder. Rain before morning, sure as snakes. I see
thunder-heads peeping up over the Black Range, right now." Caney handed over a
canteen. "Drink hearty! You shore look like you'd been working, Adam." Adam
drank deep before replying. "Working is right. Prospecting. Tired of farming--
need a change. Say, I want you fellows to witness some location notices for me.
Ride over on the next ridge and I can point out where the claims lay so you can
swear to 'em--or ride over with me if you got time. I was just doing a little
forgery when I saw your dust, for I wasn't expectin' to see a man up this way--
not ever. I do reckon this is the lonesomest place in the world." "Adam, meet my
friend," said Jody. "Mr. Forbes, Mr. Hales. Now, Adam, no need for us to go over
to your layout, is there? We can see your silly monuments. That's enough. No
particular odds anyway, is it? I reckon half the notices on record have ghost
signatures to 'em. Just as good as any. Nobody'll ever know the difference."
"Sure, that's all right--but seein' you happened along so slick, I thought I'd
get your John Hancocks. Sign on the dotted line, please--where I rubbed out my
forgeries." "Any good, your mines?" asked Jody as they signed. "Might be--will
be, likely enough. Just struck pay dirt to-day. Lots of room if you want to try
a whirl--all round my claims, any direction except down." "Not to-day, I guess.
Say, Forbes--you ain't seen any strangers this way, have you? Mexicans, mebbe?"
"Not any. But I just come up from the river. Hills might be full of people, for
all I know. Water all round, after these rains." "Look, now," said Jody. "We're
doin' a little man hunt--and if you're hangin' round here prospectin', you may
be able to give us a straight tip. Keep your eye peeled. There'll be a piece of
money in it for you if you can help us out." "Give it a name. But see here,
Caney--this isn't Dona Ana County, you know. You're over the line." "I'm not
doing this official," said Caney. "Neither is Hales, here, though he is a deputy
in Socorro County. We're private cits in this man's county--playin' a hunch.
Here's the lay: There's been a heap of stealing saddles for a business lately--
saddles and other truck, but saddles, wholesale, most particular. Got so it
wasn't safe for a man to leave a saddle on a horse at night, down round Las
Cruces." "They got Bill McCall's saddle in Mesilla three months ago," broke in
Jody, laughing. "So Bill, he went and broke a bronc backward. Yes, sir! Broke
him to be saddled and mounted from the wrong side. Only left-handed horse in the
world, I reckon. Then Bill slips off down to Mesilla, ties his horse in front of
Isham Holt's house about dark, and filters inside to jolly Miss Valeria. Pretty
soon Bill heard a tur'ble row outside, and when he went out he found a Mex boy
rollin' round in the street and a-holdin' both hands to his belly. Claimed he
had the cramps, he did--but that's why we're rather looking for Mexicans." "We
figured they were a regular gang, scattered up and down, hurrying the stuff
along by relays, and likely taking it down in old Mexico to dispose of," said
Caney. "Then we hear that saddles are being missed up in Socorro County too. So
Hales and me gets our wise heads together. Here is our hugeous hunch: This is
lonesome country here, the big roads dodge the river from San Marcial to Rincon,
'count of it being so rough, so thieves wouldn't go by the Jornada nor yet take
the big west-side roads through Palomas or Hillsboro. No, sir. They just about
follow the other side of the river, where nobody lives, as far down as Engle
Ferry. There or thereabouts they cross over, climb up Mescal Canyon and ooze out
through the rough country east of Caballo Mountain. Then they either come
through by MacCleod's and cross the river here again, or they keep on down below
Rincon to Barela Bosque. Maybe they save up till they get a wagonload of
saddles, cover them up with a tarp or maybe some farm truck, and drive whistlin'
down the big road to El Paso." "Anyhow," said Hales, "the Cattle Association has
offered an even thousand for information leading to conviction, and we're going
to watch the passes and water holes--here and at Hadley Spring and Palomas Gap.
If you help get the thousand, you help spend it. That's right, ain't it, boys?"
The others nodded. "Go with you, you mean?" "No. You stay here--so long as
you're here anyway--while we ride up the line. That way, one of us can go on and
watch Mescal. We was one man shy before," said Caney. "Does it go?" "It goes."
"Take your silly location papers then, and we'll ride. We're going across to
have a look for tracks in Deadman first." He jerked his chin toward a notch in
the hills, halfway between the head of Apache Canyon and the head of Redgate.
"Then we'll go up by MacCleod's Tank and on through to the Jornada and up the
east side of Timber Mountain." "Me, I reckon I'll post my notice and then go
mail the copies to the recorder's office," said Adam. "Thank'ee, gentlemen.
_Adios!_"

*       *       *       *       *

Jody Weir pulled up his horse behind the first hill. "Fellers, that man has made
a strike! Didya see his face--all sweat and dust? Adam Forbes is not the man to
rustle like that in this broiling sun unless he was worked up about something.
He didn't act natural, nohow. He drawls his talk along, as a usual thing--but
to-day he spoke up real crisp and peart. I tell you now, Forbes has found the
stuff!" "I noticed he didn't seem noways keen for us to go help post his
papers," said Caney. "Humph! I began noticin' before that," said Toad Hales. "Us
signing as witnesses--that got my eye. Usually it makes no never minds about a
witness to a mining claim. They sign up John Smith, Robinson Crusoe or Jesse
James, and let it go at that. Mighty strict and law-abiding all of a sudden, he
was! And going to record his papers the day of discovery--when he has ninety
days for it? It's got all the earmarks of a regular old he-strike! I move we
take rounders on him and go look-see." "Cowboy--you done said something." They
slipped back furtively, making a detour, riding swiftly under cover of shielding
hills; they peeped over a hill crest beyond Adam's claims just in time to see
him riding slowly away in the direction of Redgate. "Gone to mail his notices to
Hillsboro!" snarled Jody. "Some hurry! Come on, you--let's look into this." They
found pick and pan, stacked with the empty water kegs by the location monument
of the Goblin Gold; they scraped up a small pan of dirt from one of the shallow
holes of Adam's making; they poured in water from their canteens; Caney did the
washing. He poured off the lighter dirt, he picked out the pebbles, he shook the
residue with a gentle oscillating movement; he poured the muddy water
cautiously, he shook the pan again. "Sufferin' tomcats!" yelled Hales. "Gold as
big as wheat!" Caney's face went whitey-green; he completed the washing with a
last dexterous flirt and set down the pan with trembling hands. "Look at that!"
Jody's eyes were popping from his head. "A pocket! Even if it plays out in a day
--a day's work would make us rich for life!" "Us--hell!" said Caney. "We get the
crumbs and leavings. Adam Forbes knows what he's about. He's got the cream.
Outside of his claims the whole damn mountain won't be worth hell room!" Jody
turned his eyes slowly toward Redgate. "If we'd only known we might have horned
in. Three of us--why, sooner than lose it all and get himself killed to boot, we
might have split this fifty-fifty." "We'll split this thirty-thirty!" Caney
sprang to his feet. "Have you got the guts for it? Jody, this is your country--
can we head him off?" "If he goes round by the head of Redgate Canyon--and if we
don't stay here talking--we can cut across through Deadman. There's a pass where
Deadman and Redgate bend close together. It won't be a long shot--two hundred
yards." "Three shots! Come on!" Hales swung on his horse. "We've all got our
rifles. Three shots! Come on!" He jabbed the spurs home. It was not until they
had passed the park that the others overtook Hales. "Here, you, Hales--don't
kill your horse!" said Jody Weir. "If he beats us to the pass we're not done
yet. He'll come back to-night. He said so." "You cussed fool! If he once gets
those location notices in the mail we might as well let him go. We couldn't take
the chances and get by with it." "That's just it," said Jody. "Hi! Caney! Ride
up alongside. Slow up, Hales! Listen, both of you. Even if he gets those papers
in the mail, the recorder need never see them. All I have to do is to say the
word. I'm on the inside--sure and safe." "Sure?" "Sure and safe. If he beats us
to the gap and comes back--well, you stop Adam's mouth and I'll be responsible
for the papers. They'll never be recorded in this world!" "Where's your stand-
in? At Garfield?" "Never you mind my stand-in. That's my lookout. A letter
posted at Garfield to-night goes to Rincon by buckboard to-morrow; it lays over
in Rincon to-morrow night, goes out on the High Line to Nutt on the nine-fifteen
day after to-morrow, takes the branch line to Lake Valley, and goes from Lake to
Hillsboro by stage. It don't get to Hillsboro till two in the afternoon, day
after to-morrow. It takes as long from Garfield to Hillsboro as from Chicago.
After--after--if we turn the trick--we can come back and post location notices
for ourselves. Then we can beat it on a bee line for Hillsboro and record 'em."
"Aha! So it's at Hillsboro post office you're the solid Muldoon, is it?" Weir's
gun flashed to a level with Caney's breast. "That will be all from you, Caney!
Your next supposing along those lines will be your last. Get me? Now or ever!
Keep your mouth closed, and Adam Forbes' mouth. That's your job." "Put up your
gun, kid. I can't afford to be killed. I'm going to be a howlin' millionaire.
I'll say no more, but I'm not sorry I spoke. You bein' so very earnest that way,
I'm satisfied you can deliver the goods. That is what I want to know--for I tell
you now, I don't expect to head Forbes off here. He had too much start of us--
unless he dilly-dallies along the road or is delayed." "If he comes back, won't
he bring a gang with him? If he does we're done," said Hales. "That's why I'm
willing to kill my horse to beat him to it. You two seem more interested in
chewing the rag." "O, that's all right! Jody and me, we've come to a good
understanding," said Caney smoothly. Jody Weir glanced carelessly at the back of
Hales' head, his eyes wandered till they met Caney's eyes and held steadily
there for a moment; his brows arched a trifle. "Well, here we are," announced
Jody. "We'd better make the climb afoot. The horses are about done and they'd
make too much noise anyway--floundering about. It's all slick rock." They took
their rifles from the saddles, they clambered up the steep pass, they peered
over cautiously. "Hell! There's two of them!" said Caney. "Get 'em both! Big
stakes! This is the chance of a lifetime!" Below them on a little shelf of
promontory stood a saddled horse, a blue horse. A yearling was hog-tied there,
and a branding fire burned beside. As they looked, a young man knelt over the
yearling and earmarked it. Close by, Adam Forbes slouched in the saddle, leaning
with both hands on the horn. He gave a letter to the young man, who stuck it
into his shirt and then went back to the yearling. He loosed the hogging-string.
The yearling scrambled to his feet, bawling defiance, intent on battle; the
young man grabbed the yearling's tail and jerked him round till his head faced
down the canyon. Adam Forbes made a pass with his horse and slapped with his
hat; the yearling fled. "Wait! Wait!" whispered Jody. "I know that man! That's
Johnny Dines. Wait! Adam wants to get back and feel that gold in his fingers.
Ten to one Dines is going across the river; I can guess his business; he's
hunting for the John Cross. Adam gave him the location-papers to mail. If Adam
goes back--there's your scapegoat--Dines! He'll be the man that killed Forbes!"
"Friend of yours, Jody?" "Damn him! If they both start down the canyon, you
fellows get Forbes. I'll get Dines myself. That's the kind of friend he is. Get
your guns ready--they'll be going in a minute, one way or the other." "Curiously
enough, I know Johnny Dines myself," muttered Hales. "Very intelligent man,
Dines. Very! I would take a singular satisfaction in seeing young Dines hung. To
that laudable end I sure hope your Mr. Forbes will not go down the canyon."
"Well, he won't! Didn't you see him give Dines the papers?" said Caney. "Lay
still! This is going to match up like clockwork." The men below waved their
hands to each other in friendly fashion; Forbes jogged lazily up the canyon;
Dines stamped out the branding fire and rode whistling on the riverward road.
"Weir, you're dead sure you can pull the trick about the papers? All right, then
--you and Hales go over there and write out joint location papers in the names
of the three of us. Got a pencil? Yes? Burn the old notices, and burn 'em quick.
Burn his kegs and turn his hobbled horse loose. We will bring his tools as we
come back, and hide 'em in the rocks. Any old scrap of paper will do us. Here's
some old letters. Use the backs of them. After we get to Hillsboro we'll make
copies to file." These directions came jerkily and piecemeal as the conspirators
scrambled down the hillside. "Where'll we join you?" Caney paused with his foot
in the stirrup to give Jody Weir a black look. "I'll join you, young fellow, and
I'll join you at our mine. Do you know, I don't altogether trust you? I want to
see those two sets of location papers with my two eyes before we start. So
you'll have lots of time. Don't you make no mistakes. And when we go, we go
together. Then if we happen to find Adam Forbes by the fire where he caught
young Dines stealin' a maverick of his--"

"How'll you manage that? Forbes is halfway to the head of the canyon by now."
"That's your way to the left, gentlemen. Take your time, now. I'm in no hurry
and you needn't be, and our horses are all tired from their run. And you want to
be most mighty sure you keep on going. For the next half hour nobody's going to
know what I'm doing but me and God--and we won't tell." Caney turned off to the
right. Fifteen minutes later he met Adam Forbes in a tangle of red hills by the
head of Redgate. "Hi, Adam! We got 'em!" he hailed jubilantly. "Caught 'em with
the goods. Two men and five saddles. Both Mexicans." "They must have given you
one hell of a chase, judging from your horse." "They did. We spied 'em jest over
the divide at the head of Deadman. There wasn't any chance to head 'em off. We
woulda tagged along out of sight, but they saw us first. They dropped their lead
horses and pulled out--but we got close enough to begin foggin' lead at 'em in a
straight piece of canyon, and they laid 'em down." "Know 'em?" "Neither one. Old
Mexico men, I judge by the talk of 'em. Hales and Jody took 'em on down Deadman
--them and the lead horses--while I come back for you." "Me? Whadya want o' me?"
"Why, you want to go down to represent for yourself. You know that odd bit of
land, grown up to brush, that you bought of Miguel Silva?" "Took it on a bad
debt. What of it?" "Why, there's an old tumbledown shack on it, and they've been
using that as a store house, tha'sall. By their tell they got eighteen assorted
saddles hid there." "Well, I'm damned!" said Adam, turning back. "That's a blame
fine howdy-do, ain't it? How long have they been at this lay?" "Four or five
months. More'n that south of here. But they just lately been extendin' and
branchin' out." "Making new commercial connections, so to speak. Any of the
Garfield _gente_ implicated?" "One. Albino Villa Neuva." Adam nodded. "Always
thought he was a bad _hombre_, Albino." "They're going to come clean, these
two," said Caney cheerfully. "We told 'em if they'd turn state's evidence they'd
probable get off light. Reckon we're going to round up the whole gang. Say, I
thought you'd hiked on to Garfield. I started back to your little old mine, cut
into your sign, and was followin' you up." "Yes, I did start down all right. But
I met up with a lad down here a stretch and give him my papers and shackled on
back. Damn your saddle thieves, anyway--I sure wanted to go back and paw round
that claim of mine. My pack horse is back there hobbled, too." "Aw, nemmine your
pack horse. He'll make out till mornin'." Ahead of them the wagon road was
gouged into the side of an overhang of promontory, under a saddleback pass to
northward. A dim trail curved away toward the pass. Adam's eye followed the
trail. Caney's horse fell back a step. "There's where I found my mail carrier,"
said Adam; "up on top of that little thumb. A Bar Cross waddy, he was--brandin'
a calf." Caney fired three times. The muzzle of his forty-five was almost
between Adam's shoulders. Adam fell sidewise to the left, he clutched at his
rifle, he pulled it with him as he fell. His foot hung in the stirrup, his horse
dragged him for a few feet. Then his foot came free. He rolled over once, and
tried to pull his rifle up. Then he lay still with his face in the dust. VIII

"Look on my face. My name is Might-Have-Been--  I am also called No-More, Too-
Late, Farewell." --_Credit Lost._

"It is a hard world," sighed Charlie See. "Life is first one thing and then it
is a broom factory." They made a gay cavalcade of laughter and shining life,
those four young people. They had been to show Charlie over the gristmill and
the broom factory, new jewels in Garfield's crown, and now they turned from deed
to dream, rode merry for a glimpsing of to-morrow, where Hobby Lull planned a
conquest more lasting than Caesar's. Their way led now beyond the mother ditch
to lands yet unredeemed, which in the years to come would lie under a high ditch
yet to be. So they said and thought. But what in truth they rode forth for to
see was east of the sun and west of the moon--not to be told here. Where youth
rides with youth under a singing sky the chronicle should be broad-spaced
between the lines; a double story, word and silence. To what far-off divine
event we move, there shall be no rapture keener than hoping time in unspoiled
youth. The embankments of the mother ditch were head-high to them as they rode.
They paused on the high bridge between the desert and the sown. Behind lay the
broad and level clearings, orchard, kempt steading and alfalfa; a step beyond
was the raw wilderness, the yucca and the sand, dark mesquite in hummocks and
mottes and clumps, a brown winding belt between the mother ditch and the first
low bench land. The air came brisk and sweet; it rippled the fields to undulant
shimmer of flashing purple and green and gold. "Your _'cequia madre_ is sure
brimful this evenin'," remarked the guest. "Always is--when we don't need it. In
dry weather she gets pretty low enough," said Hobby. "Colorado people get the
first whack at the water, and New Mexico takes what is left. Never high water
here except at flood time. Fix that different some day. We got to fight flood
and drought now, one down, another come on. Some day we'll save the flood water.
Sure! No floods, no drought. Easy as lying! _Vamonos!_"

The road followed the curving ditch; their voices were tuned to lipping water
and the drone of bees. Lull pointed out the lines where his high ditch was to
run at the base of the bench land, with flume at gully and canyon steeps. As eye
and mapping hand turned toward Redgate a man came down Redgate road to meet
them; a man on a Maltese horse. He rode briskly, poised, sure-swaying as ever
bird on bough. Charlie See warmed to the lithe youth of him. "There, fellow
citizens," he said, "there is what I'd call a good rider!" As the good rider
came abreast he swept off his hat. His eyes were merry; he nodded greeting and
shook back a mop of blackest hair. The sun had looked upon him. He checked the
blue horse in his stride--not to stop, but to slow him; he spoke to Lull in
passing. "Garfield post office?" He jerked a thumb toward the bridge; for
indeed, seen across the ramparts of the ditch, there was small distinction
between visible Garfield and the scattered farmsteads. "This way?" "Yes." "Just
across the bridge," added Lyn. The story scorns to suppress the truth--she
smiled her dimpliest. "Thanks," said the stranger; and then, as he came abreast
of Charlie See: "And the road to Hillsboro? Back this way--or straight on?"
"Straight through. Take the right hand at the post office--straight to the ford.
You'll have to swim, I reckon." "Yes," said the stranger indifferently. He was
well beyond See and Edith Harkey now, and the blue horse came back into the road
and into his reaching stride. "Thanks." The stranger looked back with the last
word; at the same time Miss Dyer turned her head. They smiled. "And they turned
Lot's wife into a pillar of salt!" said Mr. Lull bitterly. "He had such smiling
eyes," urged Lyn. "Ruin and destruction! See! Edith! Spread out--head her off!"
Hobby grabbed Lyn's bridle rein and led his captive away at a triumphant trot.
They turned aside to inspect the doubtful passage where the future ditch must
clamber and twist to cross Deadman; Hobby Lull explained, defended, expounded;
he bristled with estimates, alternative levels and acre costs; here was the
inevitable way, but yonder there was a choosing; at that long gray point, miles
away, the ditch must leave the river to gain the needed grades. He sparkled with
irresistible enthusiasm, he overbore opposition. "Look here, folks!" said Hobby.
"See those thunder-heads? It's clouding up fast. It's going to rain and there's
not a man in town can stop it. I aimed to take you up and show you the place we
picked to make the ditch head, but I judge we best go home. We can see the ditch
head another day." "Now was I convinced or only persuaded?" Charlie See made the
grumbling demand of Edith as they set their faces homeward. Yet he was secretly
impressed; he paused by jungle and sandy swale or ribbed and gullied slope for
admiration of orchards unplanted and friendly homesteads yet to be; he drew rein
by a pear thicket and peered half enviously into its thorny impenetrable keeps.
"Who lives there, Edith? That's the best place we've seen. Big fine house and
all, but it looks comfortable and homey, just the same--mighty pleasant and
friendly. And them old-fashioned flower beds are right quaint." "Hollyhocks,"
she breathed; "and marigolds, and four o'clocks. An old-fashioned woman lives
here." Charlie's voice grew wistful. "I might have had a place like this just as
well as not--if I'd only had sense enough to hear and hark. Hobby Lull brought
me out here and put me wise, years ago, but I wouldn't listen. There was a bunch
of us. Hobby and--and--now who else was it? It was a merry crowd, I can remember
that. Hobby did all the talking--but who were the others? And have they
forgotten too? It was a long time ago, before the big ditch. Oh, dear! I do wish
I could remember who was with me!" His voice trailed off to silence and a sigh
that was only half assumed. "You make it seem very real," she said, unconscious
of her answering deeper sigh. "Real. It is real! Look there--and there--and
there!" "That is all Hobby's work," said Edith as her eyes followed his pointing
finger, and saw there what he saw--the city of his vision, the courts and
palaces of love. "He has the builder's mind." "Yes. It is a great gift." It was
said ungrudgingly. "I wish I had it. That way lies happiness. Me--I am a
spectator." She shook her reins to go, with a last look at his phantom
farmlands. "'An' I 'a stubb'd Thurnaby waaeste.' That's what they'll put on
Hobby's tombstone." She lifted up her eyes from the waste places and the
seeming, and let them rest on the glowing mesas beyond the river and the long
dim ridges of misty mountain beyond and over all; and saw them in the light that
never was on sea or land. The heart of the good warm boisterous earth called to
kindred clay, "and turned her sweet blood into wine." Shy happiness tinged her
pale cheek with color, a tint of wild rose and sea-shell delicacy, faint and all
unnoted; he was half inattentive to her as she rode beside him, glowing in her
splendid spring, a noble temple of life, a sanctuary ready for clean sacrifice.
"Yes. Hobby, he's all right. Him and his likes, they put up the brains and take
the risks and do the work. But after it's all done some of these austere men we
read about, they'll ooze in and gather the crops." "He doesn't miss much worth
having. What may be weighed and counted and stolen and piled in heaps--oh, yes,
Hobby Lull may miss that. Not real things, like laughter and joy and--and love,
Charlie." Charlie See turned his head toward Redgate. She read his thought; in
her face the glow of life faded behind the white skin. But he did not see it;
nor the thread of pain in her eyes. In his thought she was linked with Adam
Forbes, and at her word he smiled to think of his friend, and looked up to
Redgate where, even then, "Nicanor lay dead in his harness." *       *       *
*       *

Pete Harkey's buckboard stood by the platform in front of the little store, and
the young people waited there for him and his marketing. "Mail day?" asked
Charlie. "Nope. To-morrow is the big day." "We used to get it three times a
week," said Lyn. "Now it's only twice." "When I was a boy," said See
thoughtfully, "I always wanted to rob a stage, just once. Somehow or other I
never got round to it." His brow clouded. "Why, Mr. See!" "Charlie," said Mr.
See. "Well, you needn't be shocked. Society is very unevenly divided between the
criminal and the non-criminal classes." "That," said Edith, "might be called a
spiral remark. Would it be impertinent to ask you to specify?" "Not at all.
Superfluous. See for yourself. Old Sobersides, here--you might give him the
benefit of the doubt--he's so durned practical. But Adam and me, Uncle Dan and
your Dad--there's no doubt about us, I'm afraid. It's right quaint to see how
proud those old roosters are of the lurid past. When one of 'em gets on the
peck, all you got to do is to start relatin' how wild they used to be, and
they'll be eatin' out of your hand in no time. They ought to be ashamed of
themselves--silly old donkeys!" "How about the women?" asked Lyn. "I've never
been able to make a guess. But there's so few of you out here at the world's
end, that you don't count for much, either way." "Lyn realizes that," said
Hobby. "Here at the ragged edge of things she knows that the men outnumber the
women five to one. So she tries to make up for it. She is a friendly soul." Miss
Lyn Dyer ignored this little speech and harked back to the last observation of
Charlie See. "So you did manage to notice that, did you? I'm surprised. They've
amused me for years--Uncle Dan and Uncle Pete; how mean they were, the wild old
days and the chimes at midnight! But a girl--oh, dear me, how very different! No
hoydens need apply! A notably unwild boy is reproached as a sissy and regarded
with suspicion, but a girl must not even play at being wild. 'Prunes, prisms and
potatoes!' Podsnap! Pecksniff! Turveydrop and Company! Doesn't anyone ever
realize that it might be a tame business never to be wild at all?" "'Tis better
to be wild and weep--"

"Now, Hobby Lull, you hush up! The answer is, No. Catechism. A man expects from
his womankind a scrupulous decorum which he is far too broad-minded to require
from himself or his mates--charitable soul! Laughter and applause. Cries of
'That's true!' --Anything more grossly unfair--"

_Rub-a-dub! Rub-a-dub! Rub-a-dub!_

Three men thundered over the _'cequia_ bridge. At the first drum of furious
hoofs See wheeled his horse sharply. "What's that? Trouble!" The three horsemen
swooped from the bridge, pounding on the beaten road. "Trouble, sure!" "You two
girls light out of this! Ride!" said Lull. He spurred to the open door of the
store. "Pete!" he called, and turned back. "Adam?" said Charlie. "Something
wrong up Redgate way. Adam's there, and no one else that we know of." "I'm
afraid so. Horse fell on him maybe--dynamite or something. Here they come. Big
Ed and Jody Weir. I don't know the third man." The horsemen were upon them.
"Murder!" cried Caney. "Adam Forbes has been murdered! Up in Redgate. The
murderer came this way. We trailed him to the bridge. His horse had lost a
shoe." "Adam Forbes!" "Who is to tell Edith?" said Charlie See, under his
breath. "Someone's going to hang for this. When we found him--I never had such a
shock in my life!" said Jody Weir. "Shot from behind--three times. The powder
burned his shirt. Adam never had a chance. Cold-blooded murder. Adam was holding
fast to his rifle, wrong side up, just as he pulled it from the scabbard. That
man came through here." "Or stopped here," amended Caney. "Might have been a
Garfield man, of course. I've heard that Forbes was tol'able arbitrary." "We met
a stranger coming down from Redgate, something like an hour and a half ago,"
said Hobby. "But if he had just killed a man, I'll eat my hat. That man was
feeling fine. Only a boy, too. Someone else did it, I guess." "And he'd been
riding slow. No sweat on his horse," added Charlie. "Couldn't have been anyone
else. There wasn't any other tracks, except the tracks of Adam's horse. They
turned off south as soon as he got out of the mouth of the canyon." "How'd you
know it was Adam's horse?" This was Pete Harkey, at the open door. "Saw where
the bridle reins dragged. Say! Any you fellows comin' with us? That man killed
Forbes, I tell you--and we're goin' after him. Only about two hours till dark--
two and a half at most--and a rain coming up. This is no time for talking. We
can talk on the road." "Anybody stay with Adam?" asked Pete. "No. There was just
the three of us. We came full chisel after the murderer, hard as we could ride.
Come on--get some of your men together--let's ride," said Caney impatiently.
"Get a wiggle on, can't you? Let's find out which way he went and what he looked
like. He came here. No chance for mistake. The body was still warm." "I saw him!
I saw him!" cackled the storekeeper. "Little man, smaller than Charlie--and
young. About twenty. Came in after you all left," he said, addressing Lull.
"Mailed a letter. Ridin' a blue horse, he was--a _grullo_. That the man you
met?" "Yes. But riding a blue horse doesn't prove that a man has done murder.
Nor yet mailing a letter. Or being young. We knew that man went through
Garfield. That's nothing new. He told us he was going on to Hillsboro." "That
was a blind, I reckon. He can turn always back, soon as he gets out of sight,"
said Hales. "He went that way," piped the storekeeper. "Mailed a letter here,
bought a shoe and tacked it on his horse. I fished round to find out who he was,
but he put me off. Finally I asked him, p'int-blank. 'You didn't say what your
name was,' says I. 'No,' says he, 'I didn't.' And off he went, laughing,
impydent as hell!" "Did you notice the brand on his horse?" asked Charlie. "He
passed on our right-hand side, so we didn't see it." "No, I didn't. He took the
Greenhorn road, and he was ridin' middlin' slow." "If you had used your mouth
less and your eyes more, you might have something to tell us," sneered Hales.
"Little man on a _grullo_ horse--that's enough for us--we're goin'!" snapped
Caney. "Say, you fellers make me plumb sick! The murderer's getting away, and
all you do is blat. We're goin', and we're goin' now!" "Something tells me you
won't," said Pete Harkey. He had mysteriously acquired a shotgun from his
buckboard, and he cocked both hammers with the word. "Not till we talk a little.
According to your tell, the killing was done in Sierra County. That's my county,
and we figure we are plenty competent to skin our own skunks. Also, we want one
good long look before we leap. You three are the only men who can tell us
anything, and we want to know what you know, so we'll not lose time or make
mistakes. We can't afford to shoot so as to hit if it's a deer and miss if it's
a mule. You fellers are excited. What you need is a head. I'll be head. "You
just calm down a little. I'll be getting a posse together to go back and look
into this. You can be fixing to give us some idea what's happened. After that,
these two boys can go with you. They've seen this stranger and they'll know him
on a fresh horse. All you three know about his looks is a blue horse. I'm going
up where Adam was killed. Where was it? Don't be nervous about this gun. I never
shot a man accidentally in my life. Where was Adam killed?" "In Redgate. Near
the upper end. We was looking--"

"That's enough. You wait till I send for some friends of mine." Pete raised his
voice. "Girls! Ride over here! Now you folks keep still till the girls get away.
Toad Hales, is it? I've seen you before, Mr. Hales.... Edith, you go to the mill
and tell Jerome I want him. Lyn, you go to Chuck Barefoot's and tell him to get
Jim-Ike-Jones and come here and be quick about it. Then you girls go home."
"What is it, Uncle Pete? Adam?" said Lyn, with a quivering lip. "Yes, dear. Go
on, now." "Dead?" "Murdered!" "Adam!" Both girls cried the name in an agony of
horror and pity. Edith bent to her horse's mane; and Lyn rode straight to Hobby
Lull. "Oh, Hobby! Be careful--come back to me!" She raised her lips to his. He
took her in his arms and kissed her; she clung to him, shaken with sobbing. "Oh,
poor Adam!" She cried. "Poor Adam!" Charlie See turned away. For one heart beat
of flinching his haunted soul looked from his eyes; then with a gray courage, he
set his lips to silence. If his face was bleak--why not, for Adam, his friend?
And Edith Harkey, on her sad errand, envied the happy dead. She, alone of them
all, had seen that stricken face. "Lyn, you go on," said Pete. "Get Barefoot.
Then go home and find out where your Uncle Dan is, and send him along just as
fast as ever God'll let him come." He turned back to the men. "Now, then, you
fellows! Begin at the beginning. Hales, you didn't know Adam, so you won't be so
bad broke up as the others. Suppose you tell us what you know. Wait a minute.
Sam, you be saddling up a horse for me. Now, Mr. Hales?" "We were looking out
for that gang of saddle thieves. Went up 'Pache Canyon. Along in the park we saw
tracks where two shod horses turned down into Redgate, and we followed them up.
One of 'em had been chasing a bunch of cattle--or so we thought, though we
didn't notice that part very close, having no particular reason for it then.
We'd looked through two-three bunches of cattle ourselves earlier, for Jody's
stuff." "Yes, and you had breakfast, likely--but what do I care? You get on with
your story." "Say, old man," said Hales in some exasperation, "if you don't want
this man caught, I'm satisfied. It's nothing to me. I didn't know Forbes. If you
want this friend of yours to get away, I'm willing to get down and stay all
night. You're pretty overbearing with your little old shotgun." He made as if to
dismount. "Oh, I wouldn't do that," said Pete mildly. "Look at your friends,
first. They're just as overborne as you are, likely--but you notice they are not
making any complaints. They know me, you see. They know how Adam Forbes stood in
Garfield, and what kind of folks live in Garfield; and they know that whoever
killed Adam is in trouble up to his neck. You mustn't mind our little ways.
However, as the witness is peeved, we'll try another. Jody, speak up and tell
us." "You act like we was under suspicion," sneered Hales. "Sure, you're under
suspicion! What do you expect? Everybody's under suspicion till we find the
right man. I'm going to send word up and down to hold all strangers. That part
is all right. Hello, Jerome! You missed most of the evidence! I'll tell you
about it as we go up." "Now why the little gun?" said Jerome Martin, tranquilly.
"Been holding an election. Now, Jody--your little piece." "There's not much to
tell. We found Adam's body a little ways down the canyon, maybe a quarter or a
little more; and just this side of it we found where a yearling had been
branded, or a big calf; ashes still warm. Looks just like this fellow had been
stealing one of Adam's calves, and Adam caught him at it." "But you said Adam
was shot in the back at close range," objected Charlie. "Adam Forbes wouldn't
turn his back to any man, under those circumstances. That won't work." "Yes, we
thought of that," said Caney. "More likely he saw Adam coming and killed him
before he got to the calf--pretending to be friendly. Anyhow, Adam's horse went
off down the canyon, and the other man went down the canyon, and we came after
him. Oh, yes! His horse lost a shoe, as we told you before--the murderer's. Must
have lost it chasing that calf. Tracks didn't show it in the soft ground in the
park, anyhow--though we didn't look very close till we found Adam. But after he
left Adam's body his tracks showed one shoe gone. That's all. Adam's horse bore
off to the left. He had a larger foot than the other, and we could see where the
bridle dragged." "I'll send someone to find him. You didn't hear any shots?"
"Oh, no--we just thought maybe we'd meet up with some puncher ridin' the range,
and ask him had he seen any strangers. This gang of saddle thieves--"

"Yes, I know about them. Thankee, gentlemen. You can ride now. If you catch your
man beyond the river you might as well take him on to Hillsboro. Be mighty sure
to remember not to forget to be particular to take this young man alive. We want
to hang the man that killed Adam Forbes. That's all." "Here, I want some
cartridges," said Hobby. He leaped off and jingled into the store. "Hi, Sam! Get
me a box of forty-fives," he called. Then to Harkey, in a guarded voice: "Pete,
this looks fishy as hell! Those ashes were warm, they said. Look what time it is
now--half past four. The way they were riding, this bunch made it from Redgate
in half an hour. We met this stranger near two hours ago. That don't hold
together. If the stranger man built that fire, the ashes would have been cold
when Caney's bunch found them. And they say there are no other tracks. Wrong--
all wrong!" "And all the rest of it. Son, I didn't miss a bet. Neither did
Charlie See. He looked hard at me. Save your breath. Say nothing and see
everything. You do your part and I'll do mine. I'll know more before dark if it
don't rain and rub out the tracks. Our Father which is in Garfield hates a lie,
and he's fixed up this here solar system so there is no safe place in it for a
lie. Sh-h! Here comes Caney!" He raised his voice. "What the devil do you need
of more men? Five to one--what more do you want?" "Well, but we may lose track
of him and want to spread out to look and ask, while some of us go on--"

"Where can I find drinking water?" asked Caney. "Back there," said Pete,
pointing. Then, to Hobby: "Well, pick up someone in Arrey, then, or on the way.
I want the men round here to go with me and look round before it gets dark. Say,
Sam--you send someone up with a wagon to bring Adam back, will you? I'm off--me
and Jerome. Tell Jones and Barefoot to come right on. Take care of my team for
me." He went out on the platform. Lull and Caney followed. "Well, so long, you
fellows," said Pete. "Send word back if you find your man. Because there's going
to be a lot of irritated strangers when we start to picking them up." "We had
some plunder--grub and a blanket apiece tied behind our saddles, and we dumped
it, to ride light, where we found Adam--just kept our slickers," said Caney.
"Have 'em bring 'em in, will you, Harkey?" "Sure," said Pete. IX

"This to the crowd--speak bitter, proud and high,  But simply to your friend--
she loves you not!" --_Le Bret--who scolds._

The five pursuers rode swiftly, with inquiry at several farms about the man on
the blue horse. Some had seen him; some had not. He had been riding slowly and
he had kept the main road to Greenhorn. They took the Greenhorn Island ford and
found good swimming. The quarry had passed through Donahue's an hour and a half
before, taking the road to Arrey. They pushed on furiously. See and Lull fell
behind a little. "Say, this is a rotten deal!" said Charlie. "That man ain't
running away. Not on your life. He no more killed Adam Forbes than I did. You
know how long ago we met him. If he was the man that built that branding fire,
how does it happen the ashes were still hot when these fellows found it? By
their tell and our timing that was near three hours later. We met him about
three; if he made that fire it couldn't have been later than two o'clock, by the
looks of his horse. And he's keeping the same steady gait, and going straight
for Hillsboro, just as he told us. We're gaining on him right along. He's not
trying to get away. Either he's innocent or he's got the devil's own nerve."
"Innocent. Pete thinks so, too. This crowd tells a fishy story. Did you notice
how prompt Caney was to explain why they was there, and why they went down
Redgate, and why the stranger shot Adam, and how Adam gave him a chance to shoot
him in the back? Always Caney! Say, Hob, that man was too willing by half!" "And
that excitement. I wasn't surprised at Jody, and I don't know this man Hales--
but wouldn't you think Ed Caney had seen enough men killed not to fight his head
like that? He didn't have much use for Adam, either. Adam backed him down once.
It was kept quiet, but Anastacio told me, on the dead. It tickled Anastacio. No,
sir--those three fellows acted like they might be wishin' to start a stampede.
I'm not satisfied a little bit." "A grudge? But if one of these ducks is in,
they're all in. This is something else. Or of course it may have been some other
person altogether, and these people may have merely lost their heads. Do you
reckon that placer hunt of Adam's might have had anything to do with it? Poor
old Adam! We'll find time to grieve for him after we get the man that rubbed him
out." "I can't hardly realize it. It won't come home to us till we've seen him,
I expect. I keep saying it over to myself--'Adam's dead'--but I don't believe
it. And only last night Edith sang that nightingale song after him--poor kid!
Say--look at that, will you? You'd think Caney didn't dare trust us to talk
together." Caney dropped back to them. "Can't you two get any action out of them
horses of yourn?" he snarled. "It'll soon be dark on us. Your horses are enough
sight fresher than ours." Charlie See jumped his horse up and reined him to his
haunches beside Caney, eye to eye; he cocked his hat athwart. "Now, Mr. Ed
Caney," he said sweetly, "any time you're not just satisfied with the way I
behave you know what you can do. This place is here and this time is now. Fly to
it!" "Why, what's eating you, Charlie? This spitfire-wildcat-wolf-and-my-night-
to-howl thing is a new lay, isn't it? I always gave you credit for some sense."
"Your mistake," said Charlie. "You ride on. I don't like deputy sheriffs much;
especially deputies from Dona Ana; and most extra special and particular, tall
deputies from Dona Ana with their faces pitted with smallpox, going by the name
of Ed Caney, and butting into my private conversation. Me and old Stargazer will
be in at the finish, and we don't need anybody to tell us how fast to go or
nothing like that at all. So what are you going to do about it?" "I'm going to
ride on--that's what!" said Caney. "You can come along or you can go to hell--I
don't care." "It's a cruel world," said Charlie. "I've heard people call you a
fool, but I know better, now. Don't you worry about us not keeping up." Caney
drove home the spurs and drew ahead. They galloped into Arrey. Yes, they had
seen a man on a blue horse. "Filled his canteen here. Peart pair!... Which way?
Oh, right up the big road to Hillsb'ro--him singin' and the horse dancin'....
Oh, maybe half an hour ago. He stayed here quite some time--admirin' the
mountains, I judge, and fillin' his canteen--him and Josie. Better stay to
supper, you-all; looks mighty like rain over yonder." They turned squarely from
the river valley and pushed up the staircase road. The track was clear and
plain, three old shoes and a new one. They climbed the first bench-land step,
and saw the long gray road blank before them in the last flame-red of sun. Swift
dusk dropped like a curtain as they climbed the next step and saw a slow black
speck far ahead in the dim loneliness. "Got him!" said Jody. "Here, one can
trail along behind, while two of us take the right and two go on the left,
keeping cover in little draws and behind ridges. We'll have him surrounded
before he knows we're after him. Way he's riding, we can head him off long
before he gets to the Percha." "Fine!" said Hobby Lull. "Fine! He rides into an
ambush at dark. Guilty--he fights of course. Innocent--of course he fights! Any
man with a bone in his spinal column would fight. First-rate scheme, except that
Charlie See and me won't have it. Innocent, it isn't hospitable; guilty, we
won't have him shot. The man that killed Adam Forbes has got to hang." Leaping,
Charlie See's horse whirled on a pivot and faced the others. "Speed up, Hobby,
and tell that man we're holding all strangers, him most of all. I'll hold this
bunch. Beat it!" His voice was low and drawling; he barred the way with quiet
steady eyes. The storm-drenched wind blew out his saddle strings, the fringed
edges of his gauntlets, the kerchief at his neck, the long tapideros at his
feet; it beat back his hat's broad brim, Stargazer's mane snapped loose and
level; horse and man framed against coming night and coming storm in poised wild
energy, centered, strong and tense. "You darned little meddlesome whiffet!"
snarled Jody Weir savagely, as Lull galloped away. See's gun hand lay at his
thigh. "Talk all you like, but don't get restless with your hands. I'm telling
you! Meddlesome? That's me. Matt is my middle name. Don't let that worry you
any. I've got three good reasons for meddling. I know two of you, and I don't
know the other one. I don't like waylaying--and I don't like you. Besides, I
love to meddle. Always did. Everybody's business is my business. You three birds
keep still and look sulky. Be wise, now! Me and a rattlesnake has got the same
motto: You touch the button and I'll do the rest." Black above and furnace flame
below, the tumbling clouds came rushing from the hills with a mutter of far-off
thunder. A glimmer of twilight lingered, and sudden stars blazed across the half
sky to eastward, unclouded yet. Hobby Lull cupped his hands and shouted through
the dusk: "Hoo-e-ee!" Johnny Dines halted the blue horse and answered blithely:
"E-ee-hoo!" "Sorry," said Lull as he rode up, "but I've got to put you under
arrest." "Anything serious?" "Yes, it is. A man was killed back there to-day."
"So you want my gun, of course. Here it is. Don't mention it. I've had to hold
strangers before now, myself." "It isn't quite so vague as that--and I'm sorry,
too," said Lull awkwardly. "This man was killed in Redgate Canyon and you came
through there. I met you myself." "Not that big red-headed chap I saw there?"
"That's the man." "Hell, that's too bad. Acted like a good chap. He chinned with
me a while--caught up with me and gave me a letter to mail. Where do we go--on
or back? If you take me to the John Cross wagon to-morrow they'll tell you I'm
all right. Down on the river nobody seemed to know where the wagon was. I'm
Johnny Dines, Phillipsburg way. T-Tumble-T brand." "I've heard of you--no bad
report either. You live on one county line and I'm on the other. Well, here's
hoping you get safe out of the mess. It isn't pretty. We'll take you on to
Hillsboro, I guess, now we're this close. There's a lot more of us behind,
waiting. Let's go back and get them. Then we'll go on." "Look now--if you're
going on to Hillsboro, my horse has come a right smart step to-day, and every
little bit helps. Why don't you shoot a few lines? They'll come a-snuffin' then,
and we won't have to go back." Hobby nodded. He fired two shots. "You ride a Bar
Cross horse, I see." "Yes. I'm the last hand." Johnny grinned. "Hark! I hear
them coming. Sounds creepy, don't it? They're fussed. Them two shots have got
'em guessing--they're sure burning the breeze! Say, I'm going to slip into my
slicker. Storm is right on top of us. Getting mighty black overhead. Twilight
lasts pretty quick in this country." Rain spattered in big drops. Wind-blown
flare of stars and the last smoky dusk and flickers of lightning made a thin
greenish light. Shadowy horsemen shaped furiously through the murk, became
clear, and reined beside them. Dines took one look at them and directed a
reproachful glance at his captor. "I might not have handed over my gun so nice
and easy if I had known who was with you," he remarked pleasantly. A high spot
of color flamed to his cheek. "Just for that, you are going to lose the beauties
of my conversation from now on--by advice of counsel. While you are putting on
your slickers I merely wish to make a plain brief statement and also to call
attention to one of the many mercies which crowd about us, and for which we are
so ungrateful. Mercies first: Did you ever notice how splendidly it has been
arranged that one day follows directly after another, instead of in between? And
that maybe we're sometimes often quite sorry some day for what we did or didn't
do some other day, or the reverse, as the case may be, or perhaps the contrary?
Now the statement: I know two of you men, and I don't like those two; and for
the others, I don't like the company they keep. So now you can all go to hell,
home or Hillsboro, and take me with you, but I'll not entertain you, not if you
was bored to death. I'm done and dumb--till I tell it to the judge." X

"When the high heart we magnify        And the sure vision celebrate,      And
worship greatness passing by--        Ourselves are great." --JOHN DRINKWATER.
Mr. George Gwinne sprawled at his graceless ease along two chairs; he held a
long-stemmed brier-wood pipe between his bearded lips and puffed thoughtfully.
The pipestem was long of necessity; with a short stem Mr. Gwinne had certainly
set that beard alight. It was a magnificent beard, such as you may not see in
these degenerate days. Nor did you see many such in those degenerate days, for
that matter. It was long and thick and wide and all that a beard should be; it
reached from his two big ears to below the fifth rib. It was silky and wavy and
curly, and--alas for poor human nature!--it was kempt and kept--an Assyrian
beard. Yet Mr. George Gwinne was, of all the sons of man, unlikeliest to be the
victim of vanity. His beard was a dusty red brown, the thick poll of hair on his
big square head was dusky red brown, lightly sprinkled with frost, his big eyes
were reddish brown; and Argive Helen might have envied his brows, perfect brows
in any other setting; merely comic here--no, no, "tragic" is the word, since all
else about the man was coarse of grain and fiber, uncouth and repulsive. His
hands were big and awkward, and they swung from arms disproportionately long;
his feet were big and flat, his body was big and gross, he was deep-chested and
round-shouldered, his neck was a bull's neck, his ears were big and red, his
head was big and coarse and square, his face was gnarled where it was not
forested, his chance-seen lips were big and coarse, his nose was a monstrous
beak, his voice was a hoarse deep rumble. And somewhere behind that rough husk
dwelt a knightly soul, kindly and tender and sensitive--one of that glorious
company, "who plotted to be worthy of the world." He had friends--yes, and they
held him high--but seeming and report held him pachyderm, and they trod upon his
heart. Only to a few have time and chance shown a glimpse of the sad and lonely
spirit behind those tired eyes--and they have walked softlier all their days for
it. This is not his story; but there will be a heavy reckoning when George
Gwinne's account goes to audit. Mr. Gwinne's gaze rested benignantly on a
sleeping man; a young and smallish man, very different from Mr. Gwinne in every
respect, sprightly and debonair, even in sleep, with careless grace in every
line of him, just as he had thrown himself upon the bunk. He had removed hat and
boots by way of preparation for bed, and his vest served for a pillow. Long
lashes lay on a cheek lightly tanned to olive, but his upper forehead was
startling white by contrast, where a heavy hat had shaded it from burning suns.
His hands were soft and white; the gloved hands of a rider in his youth. The
bunk, it may be mentioned, was behind iron bars; Mr. Gwinne was chief deputy and
jailer, and the sleeper was Mr. Johnny Dines. Mr. Gwinne tapped out his pipe and
spoke huskily: "Young feller, get up! Can't you hear the little birds singing
their praises to--"

"Ur-rgh! Ugh! Ar-rumph-umph!" said Johnny, sitting up. He started a little as
his eyes fell on the bars. He pulled his shoulders together. Recollection
followed puzzlement on his yet unguarded face; he passed his fingers through his
tousled hair, making further tanglement. He looked at the absurd gigantic figure
beyond the bars, and his eyes crinkled to smiling. Then his face took on an
expression of discontent. He eyed his bed with frank distaste. "I say, old top--
no offense, and all that, but look now--I've never been in jail before. Is the
establishment all scientific and everything? No objectionable--er--creepers, you
know?" "Why, you impudent young whelp! Damn your hide, I sleep here myself. If
there's a grayback in my jail I'll eat your shirt. What in time do you mean by
it, hey? Pulling my leg? You'd a heap better be studying about your silly neck,
you young devil. Come out of that, now! Nine o'clock, past. Wish I had your
conscience. Ten hours' solid sleep and still going strong." "Gee, why didn't you
wake me up? Are they going to hold my preliminary trial this morning or wait
till after dinner? I'm sort of interested to see what indiscriminating evidence
they've got." "No trial to-day," said Gwinne gruffly. "Justice of the peace is
up in the hills beyond Kingston, doin' assessments. They've gone after him, but
they won't get back till late to-night." "H'm!" Johnny rubbed his nose and
looked searchingly at his ridiculously small and shapely feet; he wriggled his
toes. "And don't I eat till His Honor gets back?" he inquired diffidently.
Gwinne rose heavily and shambled to the cell. "If I let you out to eat breakfast
with me like a white man--no pranks?" "Nary prank," said Johnny. "She goes,"
said Gwinne. He unlocked the door. Johnny slipped on his high-heeled boots and
followed his jailer to the kitchen. "Water and washpan over there," said Gwinne,
and poked fresh wood in the fire. "Ham and eggs this A. M." He rumbled a
subterranean ditty:

_Ham-fat, ham-fat, smoking in the pan--      There's a mighty sight of muscle on
a ham-fat man._

Johnny sent an amused glance up and down his warden's inches. "You must have
been raised on it, then." "Hog and hominy. There's a comb and brush." "Got a
comb." Johnny fumbled comb and toothbrush from his vest, and completed his
toilet. "Haven't you had breakfast yet?" "Naw. I hated to wake you up, you was
hitting it off so regular. And you're the only prisoner I got now. Court's just
over and the sheriff he's gone to Santa Fe with my only boarders. Lord only
knows when he'll get back," said Mr. Gwinne parenthetically. "Jim is a good
sheriff, a mighty good sheriff--but when he gets away from home he sees life
through a glass darkly. They had him in jail, last time. So I thought we might
as well be sociable." "Oh! Then you're the party for me to jolly up when I want
favors?" "No," said Gwinne regretfully, "I'm not. The justice is gone, the
sheriff's gone, and the district judge is always gone except when court sits
here. But the prosecuting attorney--he serves for the whole district, five
counties, like the judge, you know--why, by bad luck, he's right here, a-hoppin'
and a-rarin'. So I'm under orders." "Well, so am I. What are they? What can I do
to help?" The ham sizzled merrily. "Um-m!" said Johnny appreciatively. "You
might set the table. I'll do the cooking to-day. If so be you get to be a star
boarder you'll have to do your share of the cooking--though I reckon they'll
want me to keep you under key if you're bound over. Come to think, this
prosecuting person would likely kick like a green bay horse if he knew I was
lettin' you mill round foot-loose. However, he don't know. How many eggs? Hard
or soft?" "Oh, about four--medium. We can always cook more if we have to. And
four pods of _chili_. But why has the prosecutor got it in for me? He don't want
to cinch me unless I'm guilty, does he?" "It isn't that, exactly. You see, it
has got out that you ride for the Bar Cross. And the Bar Cross boys got Wade's
goat, some way, down in Cruces. I don't know what they did, but he's sure on the
peck, and here's where he stands to break even. Pour the coffee. Tin cow yonder
on the shelf." "Oh, well--he may have a little fun coming to him," said Johnny
generously. "But let us hope, for his own sake, that he gives me a fair shake
when it comes to my trial. If the Bar Cross and the John Cross aren't just
satisfied they are capable of any rudeness--abandoned ruffians! Say, I hope
someone took care of my Twilight horse." "He's all right. I put him up with Otto
Gans, myself. There, she's ready. _Sientese!_" The jailer seated himself
opposite the guest. "No butter. You'll have to excuse me." "Butter, hell. Whadya
think I am--an incubator kid? Say, there's a few old vets here in Hillsboro that
used to know my dad--me, too, when I was a little shaver, some of them. Spinal
Maginnis, George Perrault, Kayler, Nick Galles and Preisser. H'm, let me see--
and Jake Blun, Mabury and Page. Could you manage me a palaver with some one or
two of 'em after breakfast?" "Pleasure first, pain afterwards," growled Gwinne.
"You eat a few lines while I hold high discourse to you about the good and
great. District attorneys, now. Us being a territory thataway, district
attorneys are appointed by the President--allee same like our judges and U. S.
marshals and clerks of the court. All of 'em are appointed for four years, the
same being the President's term. Presidents being so constituted by a wise and
beneficent Providence, they appoint men from states where said men and their
friends, if any, vote for President, and not from our humble midst. 'Cause why?
We're not allowed to vote. More coffee?" Johnny held his cup. Gwinne took up his
discourse. "Also, and moreover, they appoint politicians. We will not pursue
this painful subject further except to add that, New Mexico being what and where
it is, these appointees, while they might be first-class men and seldom were--
they were always tenth-rate politicians. Because politicians rated higher than
tenth-rate demanded something better. Yes. When Grover was in, they all came
from Missouri, and they wasn't so bad but what they might have been worse, with
proper care. And now they're all from darkest Injianny; a doubtful state.
Something else, too. Even when they was well-meaning--which often was guessable
--why, they're not our people. We have our little ways and they have their own
little ways, and they're not the same little ways; and they rule us by their
little ways. That's bad. To judge a man by the standards of another time and
place is prejudging, and that means oppression, and oppression breeds riots in
hell. That is how most trouble starts, I reckon--not understanding, prejudging.
Men don't naturally like to press down. They'd a heap rather comfort and help--
if they could just see the way clear. Helping someone out of a tight is just
about the pleasantest thing a man can do. But these people Uncle Sam sends here
to manage us, they don't think our thoughts and they don't speak our tongue.
They ask for brick and we bring them mortar; they ask for bread and we rock 'em
to sleep. That's the way I look at it. Won't you coincide with me?" "Why, yes,"
said Johnny, "now that you mention it--I don't care if I do." The jailer eyed
his captive with painful distrust. Then he sighed heavily. "Flippant and
inattentive! A bad mark. Nine more demerits and you'll be suspended." He rose
and went to a closet and returned with a bottle and glasses. "A long drop and a
quick finish!" "Wishing you the same!" said Johnny Dines. The glasses clinked
together. "So you be advised and don't waive examination," resumed Gwinne. "Wade
will want you to do that. Don't you listen to Wade. You make your fight to-
morrow. Old Andy Hinkle, the J. P., he's a homespun. When he hits a drill he
hits her with all his carcass, from the ground up, and when he goes a-judging,
justice is what he wants. His habit and disposition is real earnest and he
mostly brings back what he goes after. You could rake all hell with a fine-tooth
comb and not find a worse man to try you--if you killed Adam Forbes. If you did
kill him you're goin' to lose your shadow soon--and there's your fortune told,
right now." "It is my thinking that I will make old bones yet, and tell tales in
the chimney corner. Now you sit back and smoke while I wash up," said Johnny,
gathering up the dishes. "I gotta ingratiate myself with you, you know. Go on,
now--tell us some more. And how about me having a confidential with my friends?"
"That's just it. I was a-preparing of your mind, so you wouldn't be disappointed
too much. This prosecuting person, Wade--he done instructed me not to let you
see anyone except your lawyer." "Lawyer, hell! What do I want of a lawyer?" "Oh!
Then you claim to be innocent, do you?" Gwinne's silken brows arched in assumed
astonishment. "Well, I hope so!" said Johnny indignantly. "If I was claiming to
be guilty, why confab with my friends? Say, this is one raw deal if a fellow
can't get an even break." "Wade claims you might frame up something. He was
particularly anxious the John Cross shouldn't hear of it until after your
preliminary. Undue influence and all that." "Frame up my foot! I didn't kill
that man and I reckon I can prove it if I have any chance to know what evidence
they're going to bring against me." Again that angry spot glowed on the clear
olive of his cheek. "How can I study it over when I don't know what's happened
or what is said to have happened? I'll have to go to trial in the dark--no
chance to cipher on what's what, like I would if I had a chance to thresh it out
with my friends." "Well," said Gwinne gently, "what's the matter with me?" "So
that's all?" said Gwinne, after Dines had told his story. "Sure of it?"
"Absolutely. He rode up while I was branding my long-ear. He gave me a letter to
mail and gassed while he smoked a cig, and wandered back the way he came, while
I oozed away down the canyon. No more, no less. Said he was prospecting, he did
--or did he?" Johnny reflected; remembering then that Forbes in giving him a
letter to mail had mentioned location notices. "Yes, he did." With the words
another memory came into his mind, of the trouble with Jody Weir on day herd--
about another letter, that was. This memory--so Johnny assured himself--flashed
up now because Weir was one of his five accusers. No--there were only three
accusers, as he understood it from the talk of the night before; three accusers,
five to arrest him. Yet only one had come actually to make the arrest. Queer!
"Now," said Johnny, "it's your turn." He curled a cigarette and listened. Early
in the recital he rubbed his nose to stimulate thought; but later developments
caused him to transfer that attention to his neck, which he stroked with
caressing solicitude. Once he interrupted. "I never stole a calf in a bare open
hillside, right beside a wagon road, never in my whole life," he protested
indignantly. "As an experienced man, does that look reasonable to you?" "No, it
don't," said Gwinne. "But that's the story. Adam was found close by your fire--
shot in the back and dragged from the stirrup; shot as he rode, so close up that
his shirt took fire. And no one rode in Redgate yesterday, but you, and those
three, and Adam Forbes." "Yes. That might very well be true," said Johnny. "It
is true. They wouldn't dare tell it that way if it wasn't true. Tracks show for
themselves. And they knew that good men would be reading those tracks." The
prisoner rose and walked a little before he made answer. When he spoke at last
it was in a more serious tone. "You see, I've got inside information. I know
several things you don't know, that give a different meaning to all this
evidence and all these tracks." "Well," said Gwinne, "you need it. A horse's
track leads from the dead man to Garfield--a track that lacks one shoe." "My
horse had lost a shoe," said Johnny. "Yes. You tacked one on him at Sam Gray's
store. But that is not the worst. The worst is that there are three of them and
only one of you." Johnny felt of his neck again, delicately. "By your tell there
isn't any man in the world to help out your bare word. If you have any fresh
dope, spill it." "I happen to be in a position to state certainly, at first
hand, something which modifies the other evidence," said Dines slowly and
confidentially. "I happen to know positively that I didn't murder that man.
That's exclusive. You only hear me say it--but I know it. So you mustn't be hurt
if I'm not convinced. If the horse tracks say I'm the killer--the tracks are
wrong, that's all. Or wrongly read. You will be best served if you either accept
the full assurance of my guilt, and so base your deductions on that, or else
accept my innocence as sure, and read sign with that in mind. It gets you
nowhere to fit those tracks to both theories. Such evidence will fit in with the
truth to the last splinter, like two broken pieces of one stick. It won't fit
exactly with any lie, not the cleverest; there'll be a crack here, a splinter
left over there, unaccountable. For instance, if my accusers are right, the dead
man's horse went down Redgate ahead of me; my tracks will be on top of his
wherever we took the same trail." "Exactly. That's what they say. They might
have been mistaken. It is hard and stony ground." "They may have been mistaken,
yes. Someone else will see those tracks. Now you listen close. Listen hard. If
it turns out that Jody Weir and his two pardners, coming down Redgate on a run
to give the alarm, rode over and rubbed out all tracks made by my horse and the
dead man's horse, wherever they crossed each other--then that's another mistake
they made. For when I left Forbes there were only two fresh tracks in the canyon
--tracks of two fresh-shod horses going up the canyon, keeping to the road, and
made yesterday. I'm sorry they didn't take me back to Garfield. I would have
liked a peek at those tracks myself." "But it rained, and it rained hard."
Johnny felt of his neck again. "She sure did," he agreed. "Started just as this
man Lull picked me, like fruit on the bough. I forgot that. Well, anyway, if
this Garfield place is half human, then a slew of men went up Redgate Canyon
before the rain. There must have been some live ones in the bunch." "I wouldn't
worry about that none if I was you," said the jailer. "I know Garfield, and I
know old Pete Harkey, and he was taking the lead. If Adam's horse came down the
canyon after you did, he'll know it. And if your track and the other were
carefully ridden out where they crossed--why, old Pete will see that, too."
Johnny raised his hand. "That's what he will see! Hold that idea tight--squeeze
it! If I am innocent, those tracks were ridden out and spoiled, till Adam
Forbes' horse went one way and mine another." "Well, then--Pete Harkey'll see
that, too; he will think about it once and twice. Don't you worry. Jerome Martin
and Jim-Ike-Jones went along, too, and old man Fenderson, maybe. They'll see.
That's what they're going for." "Hearsay evidence is no good in court. So I'm
going to prophesy in writing--with you to witness and swear to the time of it--
that all tracks this side of the murdered man are muddled. That written prophecy
may not be evidence, but it will make the judge scratch his head." "As much as
to say--"

"Exactly. Someone killed Adam Forbes. You don't want to forget that. If it
wasn't me--who was it? Well, let me tell you something. It was a mean man. Now
you keep still a little, while I think over the meanest man I've seen lately."
Johnny rolled another smoke; and when it was alight he spoke again. "Curious,
when we come to think of it, but the meanest things a man can do is what he does
with his mouth. To kiss and tell, for instance; betrayal under trust. We go to
church and hear about the crucifixion. We have no hatred for the hands that
drove the nails or the soldier who stood guard--scarcely for the fanatics who
hounded the innocent to a shameful death. Our loathing is for Judas Iscariot,
who betrayed with a kiss." Gwinne eyed his captive benevolently. "Good land of
Goshen, son--what on earth has all this got to do with the price of hemp?"
"Everything to do with it. Demand for hemp is going to fluctuate violently if I
can swing the deal I have in mind," replied Johnny, with spirit. "I was just
thinking about two traitors I know." In a prolonged silence Mr. Gwinne rumpled
his beard and refilled his pipe. "The two Garfield men and the other three did
not seem to be agreeing very well," he said at last. "Lull--he's the one who
arrested you--he went back to Garfield last night. Couldn't sleep, he said, and
they'd be wanting to know in Garfield. The other one, See, the least one, he was
round here soon this morning wanting to talk it up with you. He was real
feverish about the quarantine." Johnny cocked his head impishly and looked
sidelong at the jailer. "Just what was the big idea for sending one man to
arrest me?" "They didn't say." "And why were they all crosswise with each other,
like jackstraws?" "They didn't tell me that either." "You're allowed three
guesses." Gwinne puffed unhurriedly at his pipe, and after some meditation
delivered himself of a leisurely statement between puffs. "About a year ago,
near as I can remember, this man Caney--Big Ed Caney--deputy sheriff in Dona Ana
--did you know that? Thought not. Well, he went out beyond Hatch with a warrant
for a fellow. He found another man--old Mexican sheep herder--cut down on him
with a rifle and ordered him to throw 'em up. The old Mexican was scared or else
he remembered something, I don't know which; he was perfectly innocent of this
particular charge, whatever it was; they caught the other man later. Anyhow the
old gentleman made a dash for his gun--it was leaning up against a tree not far
away. And Caney killed him." "So you think maybe Caney wanted to start
something. Ambush, maybe? So I'd go after my gun?" "I don't know anything about
what Caney wanted to do or didn't want to do. All I know is--he didn't." "And
the Garfield boys wouldn't stand for it?" persisted Johnny. "Lull and Charlie
See won't stand for any crooked work--if it's them you mean. Lull was the only
Garfield man. Charlie See is from Dona Ana, where they grow good and bad, same
as they do here." "Yes. I see. I know Jody and Toad Hales, myself. I met Lull
and See yesterday evenin', just out of Garfield. Say, Mr. Gwinne, could you
rustle me a razor?" "I can too. Anything else on your mind?" "Why, no. Only I
wish I knew where the John Cross outfit is holding forth, and when they are
likely to get word about me being in a tight. They may hear to-day, and it may
be a week." "They're up beyond Hermosa, somewhere at the head of Cuchillo Creek.
And I shouldn't much wonder if they heard about you to-day sometime." Mr. Gwinne
looked through the window at the visible wedge of Hillsboro, wavy low hills and
winding streets; looked with long and lingering interest, and added
irrelevantly: "I knew your father." *       *       *       *       *

Late that afternoon a heavy knock came at the outer door of the jail. Gwinne
hustled his prisoner into a cell and answered the call. He was greeted at the
door by Aloys Preisser, the assayer, a gay-hearted old Bavarian--the same for
whom, in his youth, Preisser Hill was named--and by Hobby Lull. Hobby's face was
haggard and drawn; there were dark circles under his eyes. "We want to settle a
bet," announced Hobby, "and we're leaving it to you. I say that Robin Hood
knocked out the Proud Sheriff of Nottingham, and Preisser claims it was a draw.
How about it?" "Hood got the decision on points," said Gwinne soberly. "There!
What did I tell you, you old hunk of Limburger?" Hobby Lull laid hands
delicately upon his adversary's short gray beard and tugged it with deferential
gentleness. The unresisting head wagged sedately to and fro. "Take that, you old
bug hunter!" said Hobby, and stood back, waiting. The assayer became statuesque.
"You see, Mister Deputy? He has assauldt gommitted, and you a witness are. With
abusive language!" "The wienerwurst is yet to come," observed Lull, in a voice
sepulchral and ominous. "With threats also, and insults--abandoned ruffian!
Desperate! Catiline! Officer--do your duty! I make demand of you. Dake dot mon
into gustody!" Preisser's eyes were dancing as he fought down a grin. Mr. Gwinne
regarded the impassioned disputants with grave eyes. "You are under arrest, Mr.
Lull," he said with somber official severity. "Can you give bail?" "Not one red
cent." "Come in, then." Lull followed through the door. Turning, he smiled back
at the little assayer. Preisser winked. "I'll have to lock you up, you know,"
said Gwinne. "District attorney particularly desired that no one should hold
communication with Dines, over yonder." He locked Lull in a cell; forgetfully
leaving the key in the lock. "Don't try to shout across to Dines, now," he
warned. "I'll hear you. Well, I'll be meanderin' along to the kitchen and
starting supper." Hobby reached through the bars and turned the key. He went
over to Johnny's cell. "Well, Dines, how goes it? You don't look much
downhearted." "I'm not," said Johnny. "I'm sorry about the dead man, of course.
But I didn't know him, and you can't expect me to feel like you do. I'm right as
rain--but I can't say as much for you. You look like you'd been dragged through
a knothole." "No sleep. I went back to Garfield, made medicine, and hurried back
here. Seventy-five miles now, after a day's work and not much sleep the night
before. I thought you'd be having your prelim, you see, or I'd have waited over.
Didn't know that Judge Hinkle was out of town." "Any news?" "Yes," said Hobby,
"there is." He held out his hand. Johnny took it, through the bars. "You don't
think I killed your friend, then?" "I know you didn't. But, man--we can't prove
it. Not one scrap of evidence to bring into court. Just a sensing and a hunch--
against a plain, straight, reasonable story, with three witnesses. You are It."
"Now you can't sometimes most always ever tell," said Johnny. "Besides, you're
tired out. Get you a chair and tell it to me. I've been asleep. Also, you and I
have had some few experiences not in common before our trails crossed yesterday.
I may do a little sensing myself. Tell it to me." "Well, after Caney's crowd
told us Adam was killed in Redgate, Uncle Pete and a bunch went up there
hotfoot. They found everything just about as Caney told it. There was your
track, with one shoe gone, and Adam's horse with the bridle dragging--till he
broke it off--"

"And where those two tracks crossed," interrupted Johnny, "those fellows had
ridden over the trail till you couldn't tell which was on top." Hobby stared.
"How did you know that? Uncle Pete was all worked up over it. I never heard him
so powerful before, on any subject." "You're tired out, so you can't see
straight," said Johnny. "Also, I know that when I came down Redgate there were
no fresh tracks heading this way. If those three men killed Forbes and want to
saw it off on me--then they confused that trail on purpose. If they didn't kill
Forbes, and muddled the tracks that way, they're half-wits. And they're not
half-wits. Go on." "They found poor old Adam and your fire. They pushed on ahead
to read all the sign they could before dark. Up in the park there'd been a heap
of riding back and forth. Just at dark they found where a bunch of cattle had
been headed and had gone over the divide into Deadman and gone on down. Then the
rain came--and the rest is mud." "Yes. It rained. There was a little low gap to
the north from where I branded my calf. If anybody had been there making tracks
--those cattle would blot 'em out." Johnny began to laugh. "Look, _amigo_--all
this dope seems fairly reasonable and nightmareish, turn about, as we see it
across thirty miles and twenty-four hours--but it is a safe guess that some
folks didn't sleep much last night. They know all about it, and I reckon when
they got to thinking it over it seemed to them like the whole story was printed
in letters a mile high. Scared? I guess yes. I'd hate to trade places with 'em
right now. And before it rained--oh, mamma! I bet they was tickled to see that
rain! Well, go on. Proceed. Give us some more." "The further I go the less
you'll like it," said Lull. "Pete and his hand-picked posse stayed up there and
scattered out at daylight, for general results. They found one of Adam's cows
with a big fresh-branded calf--branded yesterday. Dines, you're up against it--
hard! It's going to look black to any jury. That calf carried your brand--
T-Tumble-T!" "'Hellfire and damnation--make my bed soon!'" said Johnny. "The boy
stood on the burning deck, With neither high nor low! The Sons of Zeruiah!...
Ho, warder! Pull up the drawstring! Let the portcrayon fall! Melt down the
largess, fling out the pendulum to the breeze, and howl the battle cry of
Dines!" Hobby's gaunt features relaxed to a laugh. "You silly ass! And the rope
on your very neck! And what is the battle cry of Dines, if I may ask?" "Only two
out!" said Johnny Dines. He flung up his head; his hawk's face was beautiful.
"Good boy!" said Hobby Lull. "Good boy! You never shot Adam Forbes--not in the
back. You hold your mouth right. It isn't so bad, Dines. I wanted to see how
you'd take it. I know you now. There's more to come. You live a long way from
here, with roughs and the river between. We've never seen any of your cattle.
But we looked you up in the brand book. Your earmark is sharp the right,
underslope the left. That yearling's ears are marked sharp the left, underslope
the right. "Yes. And I knew that without looking at the brand book," said
Johnny. "They've overplayed their hand. Any more?" "One thing more. Nothing to
put before a jury--but it fits with a frame-up. This morning, Uncle Pete scouted
round beyond where they quit the trail at dark. He found locations where Weir
and Caney and Hales struck rich placer yesterday. A big thing--coarse gold. It
was natural enough that they didn't tell us. For that matter, they mentioned
prospecting along with their saddle-thieves' hunt. You heard 'em tell Gwinne
about the saddle thieves last night. But--Adam Forbes was prospecting too.
That's what he went up there for. Caney, Weir and Hales--any one of them has
just the face of a man to turn lead into gold. There's a motive for you--a
possible motive." "More than possible. Let me think!" Johnny nursed his knee. He
saw again the cool dark windings of Redgate, the little branding fire, the
brushy pass low above him--where a foe might lurk--himself and Forbes, clear
outlined on the hillside, the letter Forbes had given him. "H'm!" he said. "H'm!
Exactly!" With a thoughtful face, he chanted a merry little stave:

_The soapweed rules over the plain,      And the brakeman is lord of the train,
The prairie dog kneels        On the back of his heels,      Still patiently
praying for rain._

"Say, Mr. Lull, isn't it a queer lay to have the county seat inland, not on the
railroad at all, like Hillsboro?" "That's easy. Hillsboro was the county seat
before there was any railroad." "Oh--that way? And how do you get your mail at
Garfield? Does that come from Hillsboro?" "No. Hillsboro is the closest post
office, but our mail goes to Rincon. There's the river, you see, and no bridge.
A letter takes two days and a hundred miles to get from Garfield to Hillsboro--
and it's only twenty-five miles straight across in low water." "I see," said
Johnny. Again he visioned the scene on the hillside, the fire, Adam Forbes, the
location papers he was to mail; he remembered Toad Hales and his attempted
betrayal of the horse camp guest; he remembered Jody Weir's letter to Hillsboro,
and how it was to be delivered. Jody Weir--and the girl in Hillsboro post office
--steady, Johnny--steady, boy! Even so, Jody Weir could keep those location
papers from reaching the recorder! The whole black business became clear and
sure to him. And in that same flaming moment he knew that he could not clear
himself by shaming this light lady--that he had never seen or known. To shield
her fault or folly, he must take his chance. He looked up and spread out his
hands. "No go, Mr. Lull!" he said cheerfully. "Much obliged to you--and here is
gear enough for a cuckoo clock, but I can't make it tick. Surmise and suspicion.
Not one fact to lay hands on. Something may come out in the trial, of course.
Looks like both ends against the middle, don't it? When dry weather keeps you
poor and a rain hangs you? Tough luck! Alas, poor Johnny! I knew him well!" So
far his iron fortunes had brought him--to the shadow of the gallows. There,
beset with death and shame, with neck and name on the venture, he held his head
high, and kept his honor spotless. Well done, Johnny Dines! Well played, our
side! *       *       *       *       *

There is somewhat which must be said here. Doubtless it is bad Art--whatever
that means--but it is a thing to be done. It is charged to me that I suppress
certain sorry and unsavory truths when I put remembered faces to paper--that I
pick the best at their best, and shield with silence their hours of shame and
weakness--these men I loved. Well--it is true. I take my own risk by that; but
for them, it is what they have deserved. It is what Johnny Dines did for Kitty
Seiber. *       *       *       *       *

"Well, that's about all," said Hobby. "Uncle Pete is still skirmishing round.
Adam had a tame tank somewhere close by, and Pete thinks he may find some more
light on the case, there or somewheres else. If you don't think of anything more
I guess I'll go down to the Gans Hotel and sleep a day or two. Nobody knows
where See is. He may be asleep--and then again he may be up to some devilment."
"From what I could hear a while ago," said Johnny, grinning hugely, "I thought
you were a prisoner." "I am," said Hobby. He went to a window at the end of the
big hall and looked out. Hillsboro is generously planned, and spreads
luxuriously over more hills than Rome. This is for two reasons: First, there was
plenty of room, no need to crowd; second, and with more of the causative
element, those hills were rich in mineral, and were dotted thick with shaft and
tunnel between the scattered homes. Several shafts were near the jail. On the
nearest one Mr. Preisser diligently examined the ore dump. Hobby whistled. Mr.
Preisser looked up. Hobby waved his hat. Preisser waved back and started toward
the jail. Hobby returned to his cell and locked himself in. Mr. Preisser
thundered at the jail door. "Well?" said Gwinne, answering the summons. "I have
been thinking about the criminal, Lull," said Mr. Preisser, beaming.
"Considering his tender years and that he is nod fully gompetent and responsible
mentally--I have decided nod to bress the charge against him. You may let him
go, now." "Oh, very well," said Gwinne. He went to the cell--without remark
concerning the key in the lock--and set the prisoner free. His face kept a heavy
seriousness; there was no twinkle in his eye. Assailant and victim went arm in
arm down the hill. *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Charlie See came softly to Hillsboro jail through the velvet night. He did
not come the front way; he came over the hill after a wearisome detour. He
approached the building on the blind side, cautiously as any cat, and crouched
to listen in the shadow of the wall. After a little he began a slow voyage of
discovery. At the rear of the building a broad shaft of light swept out across
the hill. This was the kitchen. See heard Gwinne's heavy tread, and the cheerful
splutterings of beefsteak. Then he heard a dog within; a dog that scratched at
the door with mutter and whine. "Down, Diogenes!" growled Gwinne; and raised his
voice in a roaring chorus:

"_And he sunk her in the lonesome lowland low--      And he sunk her in the
lowland sea!_"

Charlie retraced his steps to the corner and the friendly shadows. He crept down
the long blank side of the jail, pausing from time to time to listen; hearing
nothing. He turned the corner to the other end. A dim light showed from an
unwindowed grating. The investigator stood on a slope and the window place was
high. Reaching up at full stretch, he seized the bars with both hands, stepped
his foot on an uneven stone of the foundation, and so pulled himself up to peer
in--and found himself nose to nose with Johnny Dines. The prisoner regarded his
visitor without surprise. "Good evening," he observed politely. "Good eve--Oh,
hell! Say, I ought to bite your nose off--you and your good evening! Look here,
fellow--are you loose in there?" "Oh, yes. But the outer door's locked." "Well,
by gracious, you'd better be getting to thunder out of this! You haven't a
chance. You're a gone goose. You ought to hear the talk I've heard round town.
They're going to hang you by the neck!" "Well, why not--if I did that?" inquired
Johnny, reasonably enough. They spoke in subdued undertones. "But I know damn
well you didn't do it." The rescuer spoke with some irritation; he was still
startled. Johnny shook his head thoughtfully. "The evidence was pretty strong--
what I heard of it, anyhow." "I guess, by heck, I know a frame-up when I see it.
Say, what the hell are you talking about? You wild ass of the desert! Think I
got nothing to do but hang on here by my eyelashes and argue with you? One more
break like that and down goes your meat house--infernal fool! Listen! There's a
mining shaft right over here--windlass with a ratchet wheel and a pawl. I can
hook that windlass rope on these bars and yank 'em out in a jiffy. If the bars
are too stubborn I'll strain the rope tight as ever I can and then pour water on
it. That'll fetch 'em; won't make much noise, either, I judge. Not now--your
jailer man will be calling you to supper in a minute. Maybe we'd better wait
till he goes to sleep--or will he lock you up? Fellow, what you want to do is
go. You can make Old Mexico to-morrow. I'll side you if you say so. I've got
nothing to keep me here." "Now ain't that too bad--and I always wanted to go to
Mexico, too," said Johnny wistfully. "But I reckon I can't make it this riffle.
You see, this old rooster has treated me pretty white--not locked me up, and
everything. I wouldn't like to take advantage of it. Come to think of it, I told
him I wouldn't." "Well, say!" Charlie stopped, at loss for words. "I get your
idea--but man, they'll hang you!" "I'm sorry for that, too," said Johnny
regretfully. "But you see how it is. I haven't any choice. Much obliged, just
the same." Then his face brightened. "Wait! Wait a minute. Let me think. Look
now--if Gwinne locks me up in a cell, bimeby--why, you might come round and have
another try, later on. That will be different." "I'll go you once on that,"
returned the rescuer eagerly. "Which is your cell?" "Why, under the
circumstances it wouldn't be just right to tell you--would it, now?" said the
prisoner, doubtfully. "I reckon you'll have to project round and find that out
for yourself." "Huh!" snorted Charlie See. "Of course if I make a get-away it
looks bad--like admitting the murder. On the other hand, if I'm hanged, my
friends would always hate it. So there we are. On the whole, I judge it would be
best to go. Say, Gwinne'll be calling me to chuck. Reckon I better beat him to
it. You run on, now, and roll your hoop. I'll be thinking it over. G'night!" His
face disappeared from the embrasure. Charlie See retired Indian-fashion to the
nearest cover, straightened up, and wandered discontentedly down the hill to
Hillsboro's great white way. XI

"We retired to a strategic position prepared in advance." --_Communiques of the
Crown Prince._

Charlie See was little known in the county seat. It was not his county, to begin
with, and his orbit met Hillsboro's only at the intersection of their planes.
Hillsboro was a mining town, first, last and at all intervening periods.
Hillsboro's "seaport," Lake Valley, was the cowman's town; skyward terminus of
the High Line, twig from a branch railroad which was itself a feeder for an
inconsiderable spur. The great tides of traffic surged far to north and south.
This was a remote and sheltered backwater, and Hillsboro lay yet twelve miles
inland from Lake Valley. Here, if anywhere, you found peace and quiet; Hillsboro
was as far from the tumult and hurly-burly as a corner of Fifth Avenue and
Forty-second Street. Along the winding way, where lights of business glowed warm
and mellow, feverish knots and clusters of men made a low-voiced buzzing; a
buzzing which at See's approach either ceased or grew suddenly clear to
discussion of crossroads trivialities. From one of these confidential knots,
before the Gans Hotel, a unit detached itself and strolled down the street.
"Howdy, Mr. See," said the unit as Charlie overtook it. "Which way now?" "Oh,
just going round to the hardware store to get a collar button." "You don't know
me," said the sauntering unit. "My name is Maginnis." "I withdraw the collar
button," said Charlie. He slowed his step and shot a glance at the grizzled face
beside him. Who's Who in Cowland has a well-thumbed page for Spinal Maginnis.
"What's your will?" "You arrested young Dines?" "In a way, yes. I was with the
bunch." "It is told of you by camp fires," said Maginnis, "that you'll do to
take along. Will you come?" "With you, yes. Spill it." "For me. To do what I
can't do for myself. You arrested Johnny Dines, or helped; so you can go where
I'm not wanted. Notice anything back yonder?" He jerked his head toward the main
street. "Well, I'm not walking in my sleep this bright beautiful evening.
Whispering fools, you mean?" "Exactly. Some knaves, too. But fools are worse
always, and more dangerous. This town is all fussed up and hectic about the
Forbes killing. Ugly rumors--Dines did this, Dines did that, Dines is a red
hellion. I don't like the way things shape up. There's a lot of offscourings and
riffraff here--and someone is putting up free whisky. It's known that I was a
friend of this boy's father, and it is suspected that I may be interested in his
father's son. But you--can't you find out--Oh, hell, you know what I want!"
"Sure I do. You're afraid of a mob, with a scoundrel back of it. Excuse me for
wasting words. You're afraid of a mob. I'm your man. Free whisky is where I
live. Me for the gilded haunts of sin. Any particular haunt you have in mind?"
"Sure I have. No need to go to The Bank. Joe is a pretty decent old scout. You
skip Joe's place and drop in at The Mermaid. Where they love money most is where
trouble starts." "Where will I report to you?" "You know Perrault's house?"
"With trees all round, and a little vineyard? Just below the jail? Yes." "You'll
find me there, and a couple more old residenters. Hop along, now." The Mermaid
saloon squatted in a low, dark corner of Hillsboro--even if the words were used
in the most literal sense. Waywardly careless, Hillsboro checkered with
alternate homes and mines the undulations of a dozen low hills; an amphitheater
girdled by high mountain walls, with a central arena for commercial gladiators.
Stamp mills hung along the scarred hillsides, stamp mills exhibiting every known
variety of size and battery. In quite the Athenian manner, courthouse, church
and school crowned each a hill of its own, and doubtless proved what has been so
often and so well said of our civilization. At any rate the courthouse cost more
than the school--about as much more as it was used less; and the church steeple
was such as to attract comment from any god. The school was less imposing. This
was a high, rainy country. The frontier of the pines lay just behind and just
above the town, on the first upward slopes. The desert levels were far below.
Shade trees, then, can grow in Hillsboro; do grow there by Nature and by
artifice, making a joyous riot of visible song--in the residential section.
Industrial Hillsboro, however, held--or was held?--to the flintier hills, bleak
and bare and brown, where the big smelter overhung and dominated the north. The
steep narrow valley of the Percha divided Hillsboro rather equally between the
good and the goats. There was also the inevitable Mexican quarter--here, as
ever, Chihuahua. But if Hillsboro could claim no originality of naming, she
could boast of something unique in map making. The Mexican suburb ran directly
through the heart of the town. Then the Mexican town was the old town? A good
guess, but not the right one. The effective cause was that the lordly white man
scorned to garden--cowmen and miners holding an equally foolish tradition on
this head; while the humble _paisano_ has gardened since Scipio and Hasdrubal;
would garden in hell. So the narrow bottom lands of the creek were given over to
truck patches and brown gardeners; tiny empires between loop and loop of
twisting water; black loam, pay dirt. It is curious to consider that this pay
dirt will be fruitful still, these homes will still be homes, a thousand years
after the last yellow dross has been sifted from the hills. So much for the town
proper. A small outlying fringe lay below the broad white wagon road twisting
away between the hills in long curves or terraced zigzags to the railhead. Here
a flat black level of glassy obsidian shouldered across the valley and forced
the little river to an unexpected whirling plunge where the dark box of the
Percha led wandering through the eastern barrier of hills; and on that black
cheerless level huddled the wide, low length of The Mermaid, paintless,
forbidding, shunning and shunned. Most odd to contemplate; this glassy barren,
nonproducing, uncultivated and unmined, waste and sterile, was yet a better
money-maker than the best placer or the richest loam land of all Hillsboro.
Tellurian papers please copy. The Mermaid boasted no Jonson, and differed in
other respects from The Mermaid of Broad Street. Nor might it be reproached with
any insidious allure, though one of the seven deadly arts had been invoked.
Facing the bar, a startled sea maid turned her head, ever about to plunge to the
safety of green seas. The result was not convincing; she did not look startled
enough to dive. But perhaps the artist had a model. Legend says the canvas was
painted to liquidate a liquor bill, which would explain much; it is hard paying
for a dead horse. It had once been signed, but some kindly hand had scraped the
name away. In moments of irritation Hillsboro spoke of The Mermaid as "The
Dive." "Johnny Dines--yah! Thought he could pull that stuff and get away with
it," said Jody Weir loudly. "Fine bluff, but it got called. Bankin' on the
cowmen to stick with him and get him out of it." The Mermaid bar was crowded. It
was a dingy place and a dingy crew. The barkeeper had need for all his craft and
swiftness to give service. The barkeeper was also the owner--a tall man with a
white bloodless face, whiter for black brows like scars. The gambling hall
behind was lit up but deserted. The crowd was in too ugly a mood for gambling.
They had been drinking bad liquor, much too much for most of them; headed by
Weir, Caney and Hales, seconded by any chance buyer, and followed up by the
Merman, who served a round on the house with unwonted frequency. Jody pounded on
the bar. "Yes, that's his little scheme--intimidation. He's countin' on the
cowboys to scare Hillsboro out--him playin' plumb innocent of course--knowin'
nothin', victim of circumstances. Sure! 'Turn this poor persecuted boy loose!'
they'll say. 'You got nothin' on him.' Oh, them bold bad men!" "That don't sound
reasonable, Jody," objected Shaky Akins. "Forbes was a cowman. You're a cowman
yourself." "Yes--but I saw. These fellers'll hear, and then they'll shoot off
their mouths on general principles, not knowing straight up about it; then
they'll stick to what they first said, out of plumb pig-headedness. One thing
I'm glad of: I sure hope Cole Ralston likes the way his new man turned out."
"Dines and Charlie See favor each other a heap. Not in looks so much," said
Shaky, "but in their ways. I used to know Charlie See right well, over on the
Pecos. He was shortstop on the Roswell nine. He couldn't hit, and he couldn't
field, and he couldn't run bases--but oh, people, how that man could play ball!"
"Nonsense. They're not a bit alike. You think so, just because they're both
little." "I don't either. I think so because they're both--oh my!" "I don't like
this man See, either," said Caney. "I don't like a hair of his head. Too damn
smart. Somebody's going to break him in two before he's much older." "Now
listen!" said Shaky Akins, without heat. "When you go to break Charlie See
you'll find he is a right flexible citizen--any man, any time, anywhere."
"Well," said Hales, "all this talking is dry work. Come up, boys. This one is on
me." "What will it be, gentlemen?" inquired the suave Merman. "One Scotch. Yes.
Three straights. A highball. Three rums. One gin sling. Make it two? Right.
Next? Whisky straight. And the same. What's yours, Mr. Akins?" "Another blond
bland blend," said Shaky. "But you haven't answered my question, Jody. Why
should cowmen see this killing any different from anyone else? Just
clannishness, you think?" "Because cowmen can read sign," said Charlie See. He
stood framed in the front door: he stepped inside. The startled room turned to
the door. There were nudges and whispers. Talking ceased. There had been a dozen
noisy conversations besides the one recorded. "Reading tracks is harder to learn
than Greek, and more interesting," said Charlie. "Cattlemen have always had to
read sign, and they've always had to read it right--ever since they was six
years old. What you begin learning at six years old is the only thing you ever
learn good. So cowmen don't just look and talk. They see and think." He moved
easily across the room in a vast silence. Caney's eyes met those of the Merman
barkeeper. The Merman's bloodless and sinister face made no change, but he made
a change in the order. "Step up, Mr. See," said the Merman. "This one's on me.
What will it be?" "Beer," said Charlie. He nodded to the crowd. "Howdy, boys!
Hello, Shaky--that you?" He lined up beside Shaky; he noted sly sidelong glances
and furtive faces reflected in the blistered mirror behind the bar. "Sure is.
Play you a game of pool--what?" "All set?" demanded Caney from the other end of
the bar. "Drink her down, fellers! Here's to the gallows tree!" "Looks like a
good season for fruit," said Charlie. A miner laughed. Shaky drained his glass.
"Come on, pool shark." He hooked his arm in Charlie's and they went back to the
big hall. Part of the crowd drifted after them. There was only one pool table,
just beyond the door. Down one side were ranged tables for monte, faro, senate
and stud. On the other side the bar extended beyond the partition and took up
twenty feet of the hall, opposite the pool table. On the end of the bar were
ranged generous platters of free lunch--shrimps, pretzels, strips of toasted
bread, sausages, mustard, pickles, olives, crackers and cheese. Behind it was a
large quick-lunch oil stove, darkened now. Beyond that was a vast oak
refrigerator with a high ornamental top reaching almost to the ceiling. Next in
order was a crap table and another for seven-and-a-half. A big heater, unused
now, shared the central space with the pool table. Between these last two was a
small table littered with papers and magazines. Two or three men sat there
reading. "Pretty quiet to-night?" said Charlie, nodding his chin at the sheeted
games. "Yes. Halfway between pay days. Don't pay to start up," said Shaky
carelessly. "At that, it is quieter than usual to-night." They played golf pool.
"It is not true that everyone who plays golf pool goes goopy," remarked Charlie
at the end of the first game. "All crazy men play golf pool, of course. But that
is not quite the same thing, I hope. Beware of hasty deductions--as the bank
examiner told the cashier. Let's play rotation." Jody Weir stuck his head
through the doorway. "Hey, you! I'm buying. Come have a drink!" Most of the
loungers rose and went forward to the bar. The men at the reading table did not
move; possibly they did not hear. One was an Australian, a simple-faced giant,
fathoms deep in a Sydney paper; his lips moved as he read, his eye glistened.
"Let's go up to the hotel," said Akins. "This table is no good. They got a jim
dandy up there. New one." "Oh, this is all right," said Charlie. "I'll break.
Say, Shaky, you've seen my new ranch. What'll you give me for it, lock, stock
and barrel, lease, cattle and cat, just as she lays, everything except the
saddle stock? I'm thinking some about drifting." "That's a good idea--a fine
idea," said Shaky. He caught Charlie's eye, and pointed his brows significantly
toward the barroom. "Where to?" "Away. Old Mex, I guess. Gimme a bid." Shaky
considered while he chalked his cue. Then he shook his head. "No. Nice place--
but I wouldn't ever be satisfied there.... Mescaleros held up a wagon train
there in 1879--where your pasture is now, halfway between your well and Mason's
Ranch. Killed thirteen men and one woman. I was a kid then, living at Fort
Selden. A damn fool took me out with the burial party, and I saw all those
mutilated bodies. I never got over it. That's why I'm Shaky Akins." "Why, I
thought--" began See uncomfortably. "No. 'Twasn't chills. I'm giving it to you
straight. I hesitated about telling you. I've never told anyone--but there's a
reason for telling you--now--to-night. I lost my nerve. I'm not a man. See, I've
dreamed of those people ten thousand times. It's hell!" Weir's head appeared at
the door again; his face was red and hot. "You, See! Ain't you comin' out to
drink?" "Why, no. We're playing pool." "Well, I must say, you're not a bit--"

"I know I'm not a bit," said See placidly. "That's no news. I've been told
before that I'm not a bit. You run on, now. We're playing pool." The face
withdrew. There was a hush in the boisterous mirth without. Then it rose in
redoubled volume. "Come up to the hotel with me," urged Shaky, moistening his
lips. "I got a date with a man there at ten. We can play pool there while I'm
waiting." "Oh, I'll stay here, I guess. I want to read the papers." "You
headstrong little fool," whispered Akins. "Their hearts is bad--can't you see?
Come along!" Aloud he said: "If you get that ball it makes you pool." The door
from the barroom opened and two men appeared. One, a heavy man with a bullet
head much too small for him, went to the free lunch; the other, a dwarfish
creature with a twisted sullen face, walked to the Australian and shook him by
the shoulder. "Come on, Sanders. Say good night to the library. You're a married
man and you don't want to be in this." His voice had been contemptuously kind so
far; but now he snarled hatred. "Hell will be popping here pretty quick, and
some smart Aleck is going to get what's coming to him. Oh, bring your precious
'pyper,' if you want to. Sim won't mind. Come along--Larriken!" The big man
followed obediently. "Part of that is good," observed Shaky Akins. "The part
where he said good night. I'm saying it." He made for the back door. The other
man at the reading table rose and followed him. "Good night, Shaky. Drop me a
post hole, sometime," said Charlie. The bullet-head man, now eating toast and
shrimps, regarded See with a malicious sneer. See rummaged through the papers,
selected a copy of The Black Range, and seated himself sidewise on the end of
the billiard table; then laying the paper down he reached for the triangle and
pyramided the pool balls. The swinging door crashed inward before a vicious
kick. Caney stalked in. His pitted face was black with rage. Weir followed. As
the door swung to there was a glimpse of savage eager faces crowded beyond.
Caney glared across the billiard table. "We're not good enough for you to drink
with, I reckon," he croaked. Charlie laid aside the triangle. The free lunch man
laughed spitefully. "Aren't you?" said Charlie, indifferently. Caney raised his
voice. "And I hear you been saying I was a gallows bird?" Charlie See adjusted a
ball at the corner of the pyramid. Then he gave to Caney a slow and speculative
glance. "Now that I take a good look at you--it seems probable, don't it?" "Damn
you!" roared Caney. "What do you mean?" "Business!" No man's eye could have said
which hand moved first. But See was the quicker. As Caney's gun flashed, a pool
ball struck him over the heart, he dropped like a log, his bullet went wide. A
green ball glanced from Jody's gun arm as it rose; the cartridge exploded
harmlessly as the gun dropped; Weir staggered back, howling. He struck the
swinging door simultaneously with the free-lunch man; and in that same second a
battering-ram mob crashed against it from the other side. Weir was knocked
sprawling; the door sagged from a broken hinge. See crouched behind the heavy
table and pitched. Two things happened. Bullets plowed the green cloth of the
table and ricocheted from the smooth slate; bushels of billiard balls streamed
through the open door and thudded on quivering flesh. Flesh did not like that.
It squeaked and turned and fled, tramping the fallen, screaming. Billiard balls
crashed sickeningly on defenseless backs. In cold fact, Charlie See threw six
balls; at that close range flesh could have sworn to sixty. Charlie felt rather
than saw a bloodless face rise behind the bar; he ducked to the shelter of the
billiard table as a bullet grooved the rail; his own gun roared, a heavy mirror
splintered behind the bar: the Merman had also ducked. Charlie threw two shots
through the partition. At the front, woodwork groaned and shattered as a six-
foot mob passed through a four-foot door. Charlie had a glimpse of the crouching
Merman, the last man through. For encouragement another shot, purposely high,
crashed through the transom; the Merman escaped in a shower of glass. "How's
that, umpire?" said Charlie See. The business had been transacted in ten
seconds. If one man can cover a hundred yards in ten seconds how many yards can
forty men make in the same time? "Curious!" said Charlie. "Some of that bunch
might have stood up to a gun well enough. But they can't see bullets. And once
they turned tail--good night!" He slipped along the rail to the other end of the
table, his gun poised and ready. Caney sprawled on the floor in a huddle. His
mouth was open, gasping, his eyes rolled back so that only the whites were
visible, his livid face twitched horribly. See swooped down on Caney's gun and
made swift inspection of the cylinder; he did the like by Weir's, and then
tiptoed to the partition door, first thrusting his own gun into his waistband.
The barroom was empty; only the diving Mermaid smiled invitation to him. See
turned and raced for the back door. Even as he turned a gust of wind puffed
through the open front door and the wrecked middle door; the lamps flared, the
back door slammed with a crash. With the sound of that slamming door, a swift
new thought came to See. He checked, halted, turned back. He took one look at
the unconscious Caney. Then he swept a generous portion of free lunch into his
hat and tossed it over the crowning woodwork of the ten-foot refrigerator, with
the level motion of a mason tossing bricks to his mate. Caney's revolver
followed, then Weir's and his own. He darted behind the bar and confiscated a
half-filled bottle of wine, the appetizing name of which had won his approving
notice earlier in the evening. He stepped on a chair beside the refrigerator,
leaped up, caught the oaken edge of it, swung up with a supple twist of his
strong young body, and dropped to the top of the refrigerator, safe hidden by
the two-foot parapet of ornamental woodwork. A little later two men sprang
together through the front door; a sloe-eyed Mexican and the dwarfish friend of
the Australian giant. They leaped aside to left and right, guns ready; they
looked into the gambling hall; they flanked the bar, one at each end, and
searched behind it. Then the little man went to the door and called out
scornfully: "Come in, you damn cowards! He's gone!" Shadowy forms grew out of
the starlight, with whistlings, answered from afar; more shadows came. "Is Caney
dead?" inquired a voice. "Hell, I don't know and I don't care!" answered the
little man truculently. "I had no time to look at Caney, not knowing when that
devil would hop me. See for yourself." The crowd struggled in--but not all of
them. Weir came in groaning, his face distorted with pain as he fondled his
crippled arm. The Merman examined Caney. "Dead, nothing," he reported. "Knocked
out. He won't breathe easy again for a week. Bring some whisky and a pail of
water. Isn't this fine? I don't think! Billiard table ruined--plate-glass mirror
shot to pieces--half a dozen men crippled, and that damned little hell hound got
off scot-free!" "You mention your men last, I notice," sneered the little man.
"Art Price has got three of his back ribs caved in, and Lanning needs a full set
of teeth--to say nothing of them run over by the stampede. Jiminy, but you're a
fine bunch!" They poured water on Caney's head, and they poured whisky down
Caney's throat; he gasped, spluttered, opened his eyes, and sat up, assisted by
Hales and the Merman. "Here--four of you chaps carry Caney to the doc," ordered
the Merman. "Take that door--break off the other hinge. Tell doc a windlass got
away from him and the handle struck him in the breast. Tell him that he stopped
the ore bucket from smashing the men at the bottom--sob stuff. Coach Caney up,
before you go in. He's not so bad--he's coming to. Fresh air will do him good,
likely. Drag it, now." "Say, Travis, I didn't see you doin' so much," muttered
one of the gangsters as Caney was carried away, deathly sick. He eyed the little
man resentfully. "Seems to me like you talk pretty big." The little man turned
on him in a fury. "What the hell could I do? Swept up in a bunch of blatting
bull calves like that, and me the size I am? By the jumping Jupiter, if I could
have got the chance I would 'a' stayed for one fall if he had been the devil
himself, pitchfork, horns and tail! As it was, I'm blame well thankful I wasn't
stomped to death." "All this proves what I was telling you," said Hales suavely.
"If you chaps intend to stretch Johnny Dines, to-night's the only time. If one
puncher can do this to you"--he surveyed the wrecked saloon with a malicious
grin--"what do you expect when the John Cross warriors get here? It's now or
never." "Never, as far as I'm concerned," declared the bullet-headed man of the
free lunch. "I'm outclassed. I've had e-nough! I'm done and I'm gone!" "Never
for me too. And I'm done with this pack of curs--done for all time," yelped the
little man. "I'm beginning to get a faint idea of what I must look like to any
man that's even half white. Little See is worth the whole boiling of us. For two
cents I'd hunt him up and kiss his foot and be his Man Friday--if he'd have me.
I begin to think Dines never killed Forbes at all. Forbes was shot in the back,
and Shaky Akins says Dines is just such another as Charlie See. And Shaky would
be a decent man himself if he didn't have to pack soapstones. I'll take his word
for Dines. As sure as I'm a foot high, I've a good mind to go down to the jail
and throw in with Gwinne." "You wouldn't squeal, Travis?" pleaded the Merman.
"You was in this as deep as the rest of us, and you passed your word." "Yes, I
suppose I did," agreed the little man reluctantly. Then he burst into a sudden
fury. "Damn my word, if that was all! Old Gwinne wouldn't have me--he wouldn't
touch me with a ten-foot pole. I've kept my word to scum like you till no decent
man will believe me under oath." He threw up his hands with a tragic gesture.
"Oh, I've played the fool!" he said. "I have been a common fool!" He turned his
back deliberately to that enraged crew of murderers and walked the length of the
long hall to the back door. From his hiding place above the big refrigerator
Charlie See raised his head to peer between the interstices and curlicues of the
woodwork so he might look after this later prodigal. Charlie was really quite
touched, and he warmed toward the prodigal all the more because that evildoer
had wasted no regret on wickedness, but had gone straight to the root of the
matter and reserved his remorse for the more serious offense. This was Charlie's
own view in the matter of fools; and he was tolerant of all opinion which
matched his own. But Charlie did not wear a sympathetic look; he munched
contentedly on a cheese sandwich. "Never mind Travis," said the Merman. "Let him
go. The little fool won't peach, and that's the main thing. I'm going after
Dines now, if we did make a bad start. There's plenty of us here, and I can wake
up two of my dealers who will stand hitched. And that ain't all. A bunch from
the mines will drop down for a snifter at eleven o'clock, when the graveyard
shift goes on and they come off. I'll pick out those I can trust. Some of 'em
are tough enough to suit even Travis--though I doubt if they'd take any kinder
to pool balls than you boys did--not till they got used to 'em. I don't blame
you fellows. Billiard balls are something new." "We want to get a move on,
before the moon gets up," said Weir. "Oh, that's all right! Lots of time. We'll
stretch Mr. Dines, moonrise or not," said the Merman reassuringly. "But we'll
meet the night shift at the bridge as they come off, and save a lot of time.
Let's see now--Ames, Vet Blackman, Kroner, Shaw, Lithpin Tham--"

On the refrigerator, Charlie See put by his lunch. He fished out a tally book
and pencil and began taking down names. *       *       *       *       *

Charlie See raced to Perrault's door a little before eleven. He slipped in
without a summons, he closed the door behind him and leaned his back against it.
The waiting men rose to meet him--Perrault, Maginnis, Preisser, and a fourth,
whom Charlie did not know. "Come on to the jail, Maginnis! The gang have closed
up the Mermaid and they are now organizing their lynchin' bee. We've just time
to beat 'em to it!" "How many?" asked Perrault, reaching up for a rifle. "You
don't go, Perrault. This is no place for a family man." "But, Spinal--"

"Shut up! No married man in this. Nor you, Preisser. You're too old. Mr. See,
this is Buck Hamilton. Shall we get someone else? Shaky Akins? Where's Lull?"
"Lull is asleep. Let him be. Worn out. Akins is--we've no time for Akins. Here's
a plenty--us three, the jailer and Dines. Jailer all right, is he?" "Any turn in
the road. Do you usually tote three guns, young feller?" "Two of these are
momentums--no, mementos," said Charlie. "I've been spoiling the Egyptians.
Spoiled some six or eight, I guess--and a couple more soured on the job. That'll
keep. Tell you to-morrow. Let's go!" "Vait! Vait!" said Preisser. "Go by my
place--I'll gome vith you so far--science shall aid your brude force. Perrault
and me, you say, ve stay here. Ve are not vit to sed in der vorevront of battles
--vat? Good! Then ve vill send to represend us my specimens. I haf two lufly
specimens of abblied psygology, galgulated to haf gontrolling influence vith a
mob at the--ah, yes!--the zoological moment! You vill see, you vill say I am
quide righdt! Gome on!" *       *       *       *       *

"And they aim to get here sudden and soon?" Mr. George Gwinne smiled on his
three visitors benevolently. "That's good. We won't have long to wait. I hate
waiting. Bad for the nerves. Well, let's get a wiggle. What you got in that box,
Spinal? Dynamite?" Spinal grinned happily. "Ho! Dynamite? My, you're the desprit
character, ain't you? Dynamite? Not much. Old stuff, and it shoots both ways.
We're up-to-date, we are. This here box, Mr. Gwinne--we have in this box the
last straw that broke the camel's back. Listen!" He held up the box. Gwinne
listened. His smile broadened. He sat down suddenly and--the story hates to tell
this--Mr. Gwinne giggled. It was an unseemly exhibition, particularly from a man
so large as Mr. Gwinne. "Going to give Dines a gun?" inquired Hamilton. Mr.
Gwinne wiped his eyes. "No. That wouldn't be sensible. They'd spring a light on
us, see Dines, shoot Dines, and go home. But they don't want to lynch us and
they'll hesitate about throwing the first shot. We'll keep Dines where he is."
He led the way to Johnny's cell. The conversation had been low-voiced; Johnny
was asleep. Gwinne roused him. "Hey, Johnny! When is your friend coming to break
you out?" "Huh?" said Johnny. "If he shows up, send him to the back door, and
I'll let him in. We're going to have a lynchin' bee presently." "Why, that was
me!" said Charlie. "Oh, was it? Excuse me. I didn't recognize your voice. You
was speakin' pretty low, you see. I was right round the corner. Dog heard you,
and I heard the dog. Well, that's too bad. We could use another good man, right
now." Mr. Gwinne spoke the last words with some annoyance. "Well, come on--let's
get everything ready. You fellows had better scatter round on top of the cells.
I reckon the iron is thick enough to turn a bullet. Anyhow, they can't see you.
I'll put out the light. I'm going to have a devil of a time to keep this dog
quiet. I'll have to stay right with him or he'll bark and spoil the effect."
"They're coming," announced Spinal Maginnis, from a window. "Walkin' quiet--but
I hear 'em crossin' the gravel." "By-by, Dinesy," said See. "I've been rolling
my warhoop, like you said." The jail was dark and silent. About it shadows
mingled, scattered, and gathered again. There was a whispered colloquy. Then a
score of shadows detached themselves from the gloom. They ranged themselves in a
line opposite the jail door. Other shadows crept from either side and took
stations along the wall, ready to rush in when the door was broken down. A low
whistle sounded. The men facing the door came forward at a walk, at a trot, at a
run. They carried a huge beam, which they used as a battering ram. As they
neared the door the men by the jail wall crowded close. At the last step the
beam bearers increased their pace and heaved forward together. Unlocked,
unbolted, not even latched, the door flung wide at the first touch, and whirled
crashing back against the wall; the crew of the battering ram, braced for a
shock, fell sprawling across the threshold. Reserves from the sides sprang over
them, too eager to note the ominous ease of that door forcing, and plunged into
the silent darkness of the jail. They stiffened in their tracks. For a shaft of
light swept across the dark, a trembling cone of radiance, a dancing light on
the clump of masked men who shrank aside from that shining circle, on a doorway
where maskers crowded in. A melancholy voice floated through the darkness. "Come
in," said Gwinne. "Come in--if you don't mind the smoke." The lynchers crowded
back, they huddled against the walls in the darkness beyond that cone of
dazzling light. "Are you all there?" said Gwinne. His voice was bored and
listless. "Shaw, Ellis, Clark, Clancy, Tucker, Woodard, Bruno, Toad Hales--"

"I want Sim!" announced Charlie See's voice joyously. "Sim is mine. Somebody
show me which is Sim! Is that him pushin' back toward the door?" A clicking
sound came with the words, answered by similar clickings here and there in the
darkness. "Tom Ross has got Sim covered," said the unhurried voice of Spinal
Maginnis. "You and Hiram Yoast be sure to get that big fellow in front. I got my
man picked." A chuckle came from across the way. "You, Vet Blackman! Remember
what I told you? This is me--Buck Hamilton. You're my meat!" "Oh, keep still and
let me call the roll," complained Gwinne's voice--which seemed to have shifted
its position. "Kroner, Jody Weir, Eastman, Wiley, Hover, Lithpin Tham--"

The beam of light shifted till it lit on the floor halfway down the corridor; it
fell on three boxes there. From the outer box a cord led up through the
quivering light. This cord tightened now, and raised a door at the end of the
box; another cord tilted the box steeply. "Look! Look! Look!" shrieked someone
by the door. Two rattlesnakes slid squirming from the box into that glowing
circle--they writhed, coiled, swayed. _Z-z-z--B-z-z-zt!_ The light went out with
a snap. "Will you fire first, gentlemen of the blackguards?" said Gwinne.
Someone screamed in the dark--and with that scream the mob broke. Crowding,
cursing, yelling, trampling each other, fighting, the lynchers jammed through
the door; they crashed through a fence, they tumbled over boulders--but they
made time. A desultory fusillade followed them; merely for encouragement. XII

"Ostrich, _n._ A large bird to which (for its sins, doubtless) nature has denied
the hinder toe in which so many pious naturalists have seen a conspicuous
evidence of design. The absence of a good working pair of wings is no defect,
for, as has been ingeniously pointed out, the ostrich does not fly." --_The
Devil's Dictionary._

"Fare you well:  Hereafter, in a better world than this,  I shall desire more
love and knowledge of you." --_As You Like It._

Mr. Benjamin Attlebury Wade paced a narrow beat on the matted floor. Johnny
Dines, shirt-sleeved, in the prisoners' box, leaned forward in his chair to
watch, delighted. Mr. Benjamin Attlebury Wade was prosecuting attorney, and the
mat was within the inclosure of the court room, marked off by a wooden rail to
separate the law's machinery from the materi--That has an unpleasant sound. To
separate the taxpayer from--No, that won't do. To separate the performers from
the spectators--that is much better. But even that has an offensive sound.
Unintentionally so; groping, we near the heart of the mystery; the rail was to
keep back the crowd and prevent confusion. That it has now become a sacramental
barrier, a symbol and a sign of esoteric mystery, is not the rail's fault; it is
the fault of the people on each side of the rail. Mr. Wade had been all the long
forenoon examining Caney and Weir, and was now searching the deeps of his mind
for a last question to put to Mr. Hales, his last witness. Mr. Wade's brow was
furrowed with thought; his hands were deep in his own pockets. Mr. Wade's walk
was leisurely important and fascinating to behold. His foot raised slowly and
very high, very much as though those pocketed hands had been the lifting agency.
When he reached the highest point of each step his toe turned up, his foot
paused, and then felt furtively for the floor--quite as if he were walking a
rope, or as if the floor might not be there at all. The toe found the floor, the
heel followed cautiously, they planted themselves on the floor and took a firm
grip there; after which the other foot ventured forward. With such stealthy
tread the wild beast of prey creeps quivering to pounce upon his victim. But Mr.
Wade never leaped. And he was not wild. The court viewed Mr. Wade's
constitutional with some impatience, but Johnny Dines was charmed by it; he felt
a real regret when Mr. Wade turned to him with a ferocious frown and snapped:
"Take the witness!" Mr. Wade parted his coat tails and sat down, performing that
duty with the air of a sacrament. Johnny did not rise. He settled back
comfortably in his chair and looked benevolently at the witness. "Now, Mr.
Hales, about that yearling I branded in Redgate canyon--what color was it?" Mr.
Wade rose, indignant. "Your honor, I object! The question is irrelevant,
incompetent and immaterial. Aside from its legal status, such a question is
foolish and absurd, and an insult to the court." "Why, now, I didn't object to
any of your foolish and absurd questions all morning." Johnny's eyes widened
with gentle reproach. "I let you ask all the questions you wanted." Mr. Wade's
nose twisted to a triumphant sneer. "'He who is his own lawyer has a fool for a
client!'" "I didn't want to take any unfair advantage," explained Johnny.
"Gentlemen! Gentlemen!" expostulated the court. "You gallows meat!" snarled
Wade. "You dirty--"

Johnny shook his head in a friendly warning. "He means you, too," he whispered.
The gavel fell heavily. The court rose up and the court's eyes narrowed. "This
bickering has got to stop! It is disgraceful. I don't want to see any more of
it. Mr. Wade, for that last remark of yours you ought to pay a heavy fine, and
you know it very well. This prisoner is being tried for murder. That does not
make him a murderer. Your words were unmanly, sir." "May it please the court,"
said Wade, white faced and trembling with rage, "I acknowledge myself entirely
wrong, and I beg the court's pardon. I own that I was exasperated. The prisoner
insulted me grossly." "You insulted him first. You have been doing it right
along. You lawyers are always browbeating witnesses and prisoners. You get 'em
where they can't talk back and then you pelt 'em with slurs and hints and sneers
and insults. You take a mean advantage of your privileged position to be
overbearing and arrogant. I've watched you at it. I don't think it is very
sporting to say in the court room what you wouldn't dare say on the street. But
when someone takes a whack at you--wow! that's different! Then you want the
court to protect you." He paused to consider. The justice of the peace--Judge
Hinkle, Andy Hinkle--was a slim, wizened man, brown handed, brown faced, lean
and wrinkled, with thin gray hair and a thin gray beard and faded blue eyes,
which could blaze blue fire on occasion. Such fire, though a mild one, now died
away from those old eyes, and into them crept a slightly puzzled expression. He
looked hard at Mr. Wade and he looked hard at Mr. Dines. Then he proceeded. "Mr.
Wade, this court--Oh, let's cut out the court--that makes me tired! 'This court
fines you twenty-five dollars for contempt of court.' How would that sound?"
Wade managed a smile, and bowed, not ungracefully. "It would sound unpleasant--
perhaps a little severe, sir." The court twinkled. "I was only meaning how silly
it seemed to a plain man for him to have to refer to himself as the court. I'm
not going to fine you, Mr. Wade--not this time. I could, of course, but I won't.
It would be unfair to lecture you first and then fine you. Besides, there is
something else. You have had great provocation and I feel compelled to take that
into consideration. Your apology is accepted. I don't know who began it--but if
you have been insulting the prisoner it is no less true that the prisoner has
been aggravating you. I don't know as I ever saw a more provoking man. I been
keepin' an eye on him--his eyebrows, the corners of his eyes, the corners of his
mouth, his shoulder-shrugging, and his elbows, and his teeth and his toes. Mr.
Wade, your moldy old saw about a fool for a client was never more misplaced.
This man can out talk you and never open his mouth. I'd leave him alone if I was
you--he might make a fool of you." Johnny half opened his mouth. The judge
regarded him sternly. The mouth closed hastily. Johnny dimpled. The judge's
hammer fell with a crash. "I give you both fair notice right now," said Judge
Hinkle, "if you start any more of this quarreling I'm goin' to slap on a fine
that'll bring a blister." Johnny rose timidly and addressed the court. "Your
Honor, I'm aimin' to 'tend strictly to my knittin' from now on. But if I should
make a slip, and you do have to fine me--couldn't you make it a jail sentence
instead? I'm awful short of money, Your Honor." He reached behind him and
hitched up the tail of his vest with both hands, delicately; this accomplished,
he sank into his chair, raised his trousers gently at the knee and gazed about
him innocently. "My Honor will be--"

The judge bit the sentence in two, leaving the end in doubt; he regarded the
prisoner with baleful attention. The prisoner gazed through a window. The judge
beckoned to Mr. Gwinne, who sat on the front seat between See and Hobby Lull.
Mr. Gwinne came forward. The judge leaned across the desk. "Mr. Gwinne, do you
feed this prisoner well?" "Yes, sir." "About what, now, for instance?" "Oh--
beefsteak, ham and eggs, _enchilados_, canned stuff--most anything." "Mr.
Gwinne, if I told you to put this prisoner on a strict ration, would you obey
orders?" "I certainly would." "That's all," said the judge. "Thank you. Mr.
Dines, you may go on with the case. The witness may answer the question.
Objection overruled. State your question again, Mr. Dines." "Mr. Hales, will you
tell His Honor what color was the calf I branded in Redgate Canyon, day before
yesterday, about two o'clock in the afternoon?" "I don't know," answered Hales
sulkily. "Oh! You didn't see it, then?" "No." "Then you are not able to state
that it was a calf belonging to Adam Forbes?" "No." Johnny's eyes sought the
window. "Nor whether it was a calf or a yearling?" "Of course not." "Did you see
me brand the calf?" "I did not!" Hales spat out the words with venomous
emphasis. Johnny was unmoved. "Will you tell the court if the brand I put on
this heifer calf or bull yearling was my brand or Adam Forbes' brand?" The gavel
fell. "Objection!" barked Wade. "Sustained. The question is improperly put. The
witness need not answer it. The counsel for the defense need not continue along
these lines. I am quite able to distinguish between evidence and surmise,
between a stated fact and unfair suggestion." "Does Your Honor mean to
insinuate--"

"Sit down, Mr. Wade! Sit down! My Honor does not mean to insinuate anything. My
Honor means to state that you have been trying to throw dust in my eyes. My
Honor wishes to state that you should never have been allowed to present your
evidence in any such shape, and if the prisoner had been represented by a
competent lawyer you would not have been allowed--"

The judge checked himself; his face fell; he wheeled his chair slowly and glared
at the prisoner with awful solemnity. "Dines! Is that why you made no
objections? So the prosecuting attorney would queer himself with this court by
attempting unfair tactics? Answer me, sir!" "But is it likely, Your Honor, that
I could see ahead as far as that?" "Humph!" snorted His Honor. He turned back to
the prosecuting attorney. "Mr. Wade, I am keeping cases on you. Your questions
have been artfully framed to lead a simple old man astray--to bewilder him until
he is ready to accept theory, surmise and suggestion as identical with a
statement of facts or statements purporting to be facts. I'm simple and old, all
right--but I never did learn to lead." Mr. Benjamin Attlebury Wade sprang to his
feet. "Your Honor, I protest! You have been openly hostile to the prosecution
from the first." "Ah!" said the judge mildly. "You fear my remarks may unduly
influence my decision--is that it? Calm yourself, Mr. Wade. I cannot say that I
blame you much, however. You see, I think United States, and when I have to
translate into the customary idiomcies of the law I do a bum job." He turned his
head and spoke confidentially to the delighted court room. "Boys, it's gettin'
me!" he said. "Did you hear that chatter I put out, when all I wanted to say was
that I still knew sugar from salt and sawdust from cornmeal--also, in any case
of extreme importance, as hereinbefore mentioned, and taking in consideration
the fine and subtle nuisances of delicate thought, as it were, whereas, being
then and there loaded with shot and slugs, I can still tell a hawk from a
handsaw. Why, I'm getting so I talk that jargon to my jackass when I wallop him
over the place made and provided on him, the said jackass, with a _curajo_ pole!
I'll tell you what--the first man I catch voting for me next year I'm going to
pat him over the head with a pickhandle. You may proceed with the case, Mr.
Dines." "This is an outrage!" bawled the furious and red-faced prosecutor. "This
is an outrage! An outrage! These proceedings are a mockery! This whole trial is
a travesty on justice!" The gavel banged down. "This court is now adjourned,"
announced Judge Hinkle. He leaned back in his chair and sighed luxuriously. He
took out a pair of steel-rimmed spectacles and polished them; he held them
poised delicately in one hand and beamed benevolently on the crowded court room.
"We have had a very trying forenoon," observed Mr. Hinkle blandly. "Perhaps some
of us are ruffled a little. But I trust that nothing which has happened in this
court room will cause any hard feeling of a lasting character. And I strongly
advise that under no circumstances will any of you feel impelled to take any man
and put his head under a pump, and pump on his head." The gavel rapped smartly.
"This court will now come to order! Mr. Dines, as I remarked before recess, you
will now proceed with the case." "I'll not detain you long, Mr. Hales," said
Johnny. "I didn't bother to cross-examine the previous witnesses"--he smiled
upon Caney and Weir--"because they are suffering from the results of an
accident. In the mines, as I hear. Mining is a dangerous business. Very.
Sometimes a man is just one-sixteenth of a second slow--and it gets him trouble.
I understand, Mr. Hales, that you three gentlemen were together when you found
the murdered man?" "Yes." "You had been prospecting together?" "Prospecting, and
looking for saddle thieves." "Did you find the saddle thieves?" "No; I told you
once." "No," said Johnny; "you told Mr. Wade. Find any mines?" "Yes." "Good
prospect?" "I think so." "Um--yes." Johnny hesitated, and fell silent. Hales
fidgeted. "And the murdered man," began Johnny slowly, and stopped. Hales heaved
a sigh of relief. Johnny darted a swift glance at the judge. "And the murdered
man had been shot three times?" "Three times. In the back." "The shots were
close together?" "Yes. My hand would have covered all three." "Sure of that?"
"Positive." "In your opinion, these shots had been fired at close range?" An
interruption came. Four men trooped into the door, booted and spurred; three of
the John Cross men--Tom Ross, Frank Bojarquez, Will Foster; with Hiram Yoast, of
the Bar Cross: four fit to stand by Caesar. A stir ran through the court room.
They raised their hands to Johnny in grave salute; they filed to a bench
together. Johnny repeated the question: "You say, Mr. Hales, that these three
shots had been fired at close range?" "The dead man's shirt was burned. The gun
must have been almost between his shoulder blades." "Was there any blood on
Forbes' saddle?" "I didn't see Forbes' saddle," growled Hales; "or Forbes'
horse." "Oh, yes. But in your opinion, Forbes was riding when he was killed?"
"In my opinion, he was." "What makes you think so?" "We found the tracks where
Forbes was dragged, twenty feet or so, before his foot come loose from the
stirrup, and blood in the track all the way. I told all this before." "So you
did, so you did. Now about these wounds. Did the path of the bullets range up or
down from where they entered the body?" "Down." "Sure of that?" "Yes." "Did you
examine the body?" "How else would I know? Of course I did." "Show the court, on
your own body, about where the wounds were located." "They went in about here"--
indicating--"and come out about here." "Thank you. Then the shots passed
obliquely through the body, entering behind, somewhere near the left shoulder
blade, and coming out at a point slightly lower, and under the right breast?"
"About that, yes." "All indicating that the murderer rode at his victim's left
hand, and a little behind him, when these shots were fired?" "I think so, yes."
"And that the gun muzzle must have been a little higher than the wounds made by
the entering bullets, because the bullets passed through the body with a
slightly downward trend?" "That is right." "How big was the murdered man?" "He
was a very large man." "Very heavy or very tall?" "Both, I should say. It is
hard to judge a dead man's height. He was very heavily built." "You lifted him?"
"I turned him over." "How tall was he, would you say?" "I tell you, I don't
know." Hales was visibly more impatient with each question. "Of course you don't
know. But you can make a guess. Come, give the court your estimate." "Not less
than six feet, I should say. Probably more." "Did you see Adam Forbes' horse--
no, you told us that. But you saw my horse when you arrested me?" "Yes." "Was my
horse a small horse or a large one?" "A small one." Johnny rose and strolled to
the window. "Well, about how high?" "About fourteen hands. Possibly an inch
more." "Would you know my horse again?" "Certainly." "So you could swear to
him?" "Yes." "What color was he?" "A _grullo_--a very peculiar shade of _grullo_
--a sleek glossy, velvety blue." "Was he thin or fat?" "Neither. Smooth--not
fat." "Did you notice his brand?" "Of course." "Describe it to the court." "He
was branded K I M on the left hip." "On which side did his mane hang?" "On the
left." "Thank you. Now, Mr. Hales, would you describe me as a large man or a
small one?" Hales looked an appeal to the prosecutor. "I object to that question
--improper, irrelevant, incompetent and immaterial. And that is not all. This
man, this man Dines, is arguing the case as he goes along, contrary to all
rule." "I like it that way," observed the judge placidly. "If he makes his point
as the evidence is given, I'm not likely to miss any bets, as I might do if he
waited for the summing up." "I objected to the question," snapped the
prosecutor. "I demand your ruling." "Has the defense anything to offer? That
question would certainly seem to be superfluous on the face of it," said the
court, mildly. "Your Honor," said Johnny, "I want to get this down on the record
in black and white. Someone who has never seen me may have to pass on this
evidence before we get done. I want that person to be sure of my size."
"Objection overruled." "Please describe me--as to size--Mr. Hales." "A very
small man," answered Hales sulkily. "In your opinion, when I shot Adam Forbes
did I stand on my saddle? Or could I have inflicted a wound such as you have
described by simply kneeling on my saddle--"

"I object!" "--if Adam Forbes rode a horse big enough to carry his weight, and I
rode a horse fourteen hands high?" Wade leaped to his feet and flung out his
hands. "I object!" he shrilled. "Objection sustained. The question is most
improper. I shall instruct myself to disregard it in making my decision."
"That's all," said Johnny Dines; and sat down. "Any more witnesses for the
prosecution, Mr. Wade?" "No, sir. The prosecution rests." The judge turned back
to Johnny. "Witnesses for the defense?" "Call my horse," said Johnny Dines.
"Your Honor, I object! This is preposterous--unheard of! We will admit the
height of this accursed horse as being approximately fourteen hands, if that is
what he wants to prove. I ask that you keep this buffoon in order. The trial has
degenerated into farce-comedy." "Do you know, Mr. Wade, I seem to observe some
tragic elements in this trial," observed Hinkle. "I am curious to hear Mr. Dines
state his motive in making so extraordinary a request from the court." "He's
trying to be funny!" "No," said the judge; "I do not think Mr. Dines is trying
to be funny. If such is his idea, I shall find means to make him regret it. Will
you explain, Mr. Dines? You are entitled to make a statement of what you expect
to prove." Johnny rose. "Certainly. Let me outline my plan of defense. I could
not call witnesses until I heard the evidence against me. Now that I have heard
the evidence, it becomes plain that, except for a flat denial by myself, no
living man can speak for me. I was alone. When I take the stand presently, I
shall state under oath precisely what I shall now outline to you briefly. "On
the day in question I was sent by Cole Ralston to Hillsboro to execute his
orders, as I will explain in full, later. I came through MacCleod's Park,
started up a Bar Cross cow and her unbranded yearling, and I caught the yearling
at the head of Redgate. While I was branding it, a big man--I have every reason
to believe that this man was Adam Forbes--came down the canyon. He rode up where
I was branding the yearling, talked to me, smoked a cigarette, gave me a letter
to mail, and went back the way he came. I went to Garfield. My horse had lost a
shoe, as the witnesses have stated. I nailed on a fresh shoe in Garfield, and
came on. I was arrested about dark that night while on the road to Hillsboro.
That is all my story. True or false, I shall not vary from it for any cross-
examination. "I shall ask Your Honor to consider that my story may be true. I
shall ask Your Honor to consider that if my story is true no man may speak for
me. I saw no other man between Upham and the Garfield ditch--twenty-five miles.
"You have heard the prosecution's theory. It is that I was stealing a calf
belonging to the dead man--branding it; that he caught me in the act, and that I
foully murdered him. If I can prove the first part of that theory to be entirely
false; if I can demonstrate that even if I killed Adam Forbes I certainly did
not kill him in the manner or for the motive set forth by the theory of the
prosecution--then you may perhaps believe my unsupported statement as to the
rest of it. And that is what I can do, if allowed the opportunity. I cannot, by
myself, now or at any other time, absolutely prove my statement to be true. I
can and will prove the theory of the prosecution to be absolutely false. To do
that I rely upon myself--not upon my statement, but upon myself, my body, so
much flesh and blood and bone, considered as an exhibit in this case, taken in
connection with all known or alleged facts; on myself and my horse; on Adam
Forbes' dead body and on the horse Adam Forbes rode that day; on the Bar Cross
yearling I branded day before yesterday, a yearling that I can describe in
detail, a yearling that can be found and must be found, a yearling that will be
found following a Bar Cross cow. I have no fancy to be hanged by a theory. I
demand to test that theory by facts. I demand that my horse be called to testify
to the facts." "Mr. Gwinne, you may call the prisoner's horse," said the
justice. "Spinal, you may act as the court's officer while Gwinne is gone." "His
name is Twilight," added Johnny, "and he is over at the Gans stables." "I
protest! Your Honor, I protest against such unmitigated folly," stormed Mr.
Benjamin Attlebury Wade, in a hot fury of exasperation. "You are making a
mockery of the law! There is no precedent on record for anything like this."
"Here's where we make a new precedent, then," observed the court cheerfully. "I
have given my instructions, and I'd be willing to place a small bet on going
through with my folly. I don't know much about the law, but the people who put
me here knew I didn't know much about the law when they elected me--so I guess
they aimed to have me get at the rights of things in my own way." He twisted his
scanty beard for a moment; his faded blue eyes peered over the rims of his
glasses. "Not that it would make any great difference," he added. A little
wearied from the strain of focalized effort, Johnny looked out across the blur
of faces. Hobby Lull smiled at him, and Charlie See looked hardihood like his
own. There were other friendly faces, many of them; and beyond and above them
all shone the faces of his straining mates, Hiram and the three John Cross men.
"Judge, may I speak to the prisoner?" asked Hiram Yoast. He tugged at a grizzled
foretop. "You may." "Old-timer," said Hiram, "we didn't hear of you till late
last night. We had moved on from Hermosa. That's all, Your Honor. Thank you."
"Will the learned counsel for the defense outline the rest of his program?"
inquired the judge, with respectful gentleness. "He will," said Johnny. "I'll
have to ask you to continue the case until to-morrow, or maybe later--till I can
get some of the Garfield men who can swear to the size of the horse Adam Forbes
rode. Then I want--"

Charlie See rose. "I offer my evidence. I slept with Adam Forbes the night
before he was killed; and I saw him start. He rode a big horse." "Thank you,"
said Johnny. "I'll call you after a while. Get yourself a reserved seat inside
here. I knew Adam Forbes rode a big horse, and I can describe that horse--if
Adam Forbes was the man I met in Redgate, which I've never doubted. A big blaze-
faced bay with a Heart-Diamond brand. This way." He traced on the wall a heart
with an inscribed diamond. "But I want to call the men who brought in Adam
Forbes. I want to question them about all the tracks they saw, before it rained.
So you see, Your Honor, I'll have to ask for a continuation. I can't afford to
be hanged to save the county a little money." "You'll get your continuation."
"But that isn't all. That yearling I branded--he was from the river _bosques_,
for he had his tail full of sand burs, and the bunch he was with was sure snaky.
His mammy's a Bar Cross cow and he's a Bar Cross bull--and so branded by me.
He'll be back with her by this time. He had all the Hereford markings, just
about perfect. His mammy wasn't marked so good. She had a bald face and a line
back, all right, and white feet and a white belly. But one of her stockings was
outsize--run clear up her thigh--and she had two big white spots on her ribs on
the nigh side. I didn't see the other side. And one of her horns drooped a
little--the right one. I would like to have you appoint a commission to bring
them into court, or at any rate to interview them and get a statement of facts."
"That's reasonable," said the judge. "Application granted." He called to Tom
Ross. "Tom, that's your job. You and your three peelers find that Bar Cross cow
--objection overruled--and that bull yearling. Mr. Clerk, you may so enter it,
at the charge of Sierra County." Wade was on his feet again. "But, Your Honor,"
he gasped, "those men are the prisoner's especial friends!" "Exactly. That's why
they'll find that calf. Results are what I'm after, and I don't care a hang
about methods." He frowned. "Look here, Mr. Wade--am I to understand that you
want this prisoner convicted whether he's guilty or not?" "No, no, certainly
not. But why appoint those four men in particular? There is always the
possibility of collusion." Judge Hinkle's face became bleak and gray. He rose
slowly. The court room grew suddenly still. Hinkle walked across the little
intervening space and faced the prosecutor. "Collision, perhaps you mean," he
said. His quiet, even voice was cutting in its contempt. "What do you think this
is--a town full of thugs? I want you to know that those four men stand a damn
sight higher in this community than you do. Sit down--you're making an indecent
exposure of your soul!" As he went back to his desk, an oldish man came to the
door and caught Hobby Lull's eye. He beckoned. Hobby rose and went to the door.
They held a whispered council in the anteroom. Judge Hinkle busied himself with
the papers on his desk for a moment. When he looked up his face had regained its
wonted color. "Here comes Gwinne with the horse," announced Hobby Lull from the
anteroom. "Mr. Dines, how does your client propose to question that horse, if I
may ask?" inquired the judge. "I propose to prove by my horse," said Johnny,
"that though I may have murdered this man I certainly did not shoot him while I
was riding this horse. And I depend on the evidence of the prosecution's
witnesses"--he smiled at the prosecution's witnesses--"to establish that no one
rode in Redgate that day except me--and them! If the court will appoint some man
known to be a rider and a marksman, and will instruct him to ride my horse by
the courthouse windows, we can get this testimony over at once. It has been
shown here that I carried a .45. Set up a box out there where we can see from
the windows; give your man a gun and tell him to ride as close as he likes and
put three shots in that box. If he hits that box more than once--"

"Gun-shy?" said Judge Hinkle. "Watch him!" said Johnny rapturously. The judge's
eye rested on Mr. Wade with frank distaste. "We will now have another gross
instance of collusion," he announced. "I will call on Frank Bojarquez to assist
the court." Francisco Bojarquez upreared his straight length at the back of the
hall. "Excuse, please, if I seem to tell the judge what he is to do. But what
Mistair Wade says, it is true a little--or it might seem true to estrangers. For
us in Hillsboro, frien's togethair, eet does not mattair; we know. But because
the worl' ees full of estrangers--theenk, Judge Hinkle, eef it is not bes' that
it ees not a great frien' of the preesoner who is to examine that horse--what?
That no estranger may have some doubts? There are so many estrangers." "Humph!
There is something in that." The justice scratched his ear. "Very well. George
Scarboro, stand up. Are you acquainted with this prisoner?" "No, sir." "You are
one of the Arizona Rangers?" "I am." "Slip your saddle on that blue horse. You
know what you have to do?" "Yes, sir." Scarboro departed, and half the court
room went with him. Five minutes later he rode the Twilight horse, prancing
daintily, under the courthouse windows. The windows were lined with faces.
Johnny, the judge and Wade had a window to themselves, within the sacred
railing. But Spinal Maginnis did not look from any window. Spinal was looking
elsewhere--at Caney, Weir and Hales. The ranger wore a loose and sagging belt;
his gun swung low on his thigh, just at the reach of his extended arm. As he
came abreast of the destined box Scarboro's arm flashed down and up. So did
Twilight. A pistol shot, a long blue streak, and a squeal of anguish ascended
together, hopelessly mingled and indiscriminate, spurning the spinning earth. It
launched toward outer space in a complex of motion upward, sidewise, forward and
inside out, shaming the orbit of the moon, nodes, perturbations, apsides,
syzygies and other symptoms too luminous to mention; but perhaps apogee and
acceleration were the most prominent. A clatter, a pitch, an agonized bawl, a
sailing hat, a dust cloud, a desperate face above it, with streaming hair; the
marvel fell away down the hill and left a stunned silence behind. And presently
a gun came down. "Do you want to cross-examine the witness?" inquired Johnny.
Wade threw up his hands. "Well!" he said. "Well!" His jaw dropped. He drew
Johnny aside and whispered, "See here, damn you--did you kill that man?" "No, I
didn't," whispered Johnny. "But you keep it dark. It's a dead secret." The
roaring crowd came in with laughter and shouts. As they found seats and the
tumult quieted Johnny addressed the judge. "Shall I take the stand now, Your
Honor, or wait till after dinner? It's late, I know--but you'd believe me better
right now--"

"Wait a minute, Andy!" A man rose in the crowd--a tall old man with a melancholy
face--the same who had summoned Hobby Lull to the door. "Why, hello, Pete! I
didn't see you come!" said the judge. "That's funny, too. I have been here half
an hour. You're getting old, Andy--getting old!" "Oh, you go to thunder! Say,
can you straighten up this mess?" "I can help, at least--or so I believe. I was
with the search party." "Well, who calls this witness--the defense or the
prosecution?" inquired the court. "Oh, let me call myself--as the friend of the
court, _amicus curiae_, just as they used to do in England--do yet, for all I
know. I've not heard your evidence--though I saw some just now, outside. But
I've got a few facts which you may be able to fit in somewhere. I don't know the
defendant, and am not for or against the prosecutor or for anybody or anything
except justice. So I'll take it kindly if you'd let me tell my story in my own
way--as the friend of justice. I'll get over the ground quicker and tell it
straighter. If anyone is not satisfied they can cross-examine me afterwards,
just as if I had been called by one side or the other." Judge Hinkle turned to
Wade. "Any objections?" "No," said Wade. "I guess justice is what we all want--
results, as you said yourself." He was a subdued man. His three witnesses
stirred uneasily, with sidelong glances. Spinal Maginnis kept a corner of his
eye on those witnesses. "Suits me," said Johnny. "I got to get me a drink,"
whispered Caney, and rose, tiptoeing. But Maginnis rose with him. "Sit down, Mr.
Caney," he said. "You look poorly. I'll fetch you some water." Pete Harkey took
the stand and was duly sworn. He crossed his legs and addressed the judge.
"Well, we went up in Redgate, Dan Fenderson and I and a bunch. We thought there
was no use of more than one coming here to-day, because we all saw just the same
things." Hinkle nodded. "All right, Pete. Tell us about it." "Well, now, Andy--
Your Honor--if it's just the same to everybody, I'll skip the part about the
tracks and finding Adam until cross-examination. It's just going over the same
old ground again. I've been talking to Hobby, and we found everything just about
as you heard it from these boys." His eye shifted toward the witness bench. "All
except one little thing about the tracks, and that was done after the murder,
and might have been happen-so. And I was wanting to hurry up and get back to
Garfield to-night. We're going to bury Adam at sundown." "All right, Pete. But
we'll cross-examine you--if not to-day, then to-morrow. It pays to work
tailings, sometimes." "That's queer, too. I was just coming to that--in a way.
Mining. Adam went up there to prospect for gold--placer gold. When the big rain
came, the night he was killed, all tracks were washed out, of course. We hadn't
got far when dark came--and then the rain. But yesterday I went combing out the
country to look for Adam's outfit of camp stuff, and also to see if perhaps he
had found any claims before he was killed. And I found this." He handed to the
judge a small paper packet, folded and refolded, and wrapped round with a
buckskin string. The judge opened it. "Coarse gold!" he said. "Like the Apache
gold in the seventies! Pete, you've got a rich mine if there's much of this."
"It is rich dirt," said Pete. "I got that from less than a dozen pans. But it is
not my mine." "How so?" "I got home late last night. This morning I looked in
all the pockets in the clothes Adam was wearing. Here is what I found in his
vest." He handed to Hinkle a small tobacco sack, rolled to a tiny cylinder. "The
same kind of gold--big as rice!" said Hinkle. "So Adam Forbes found this?"
Caney's hand crept under his coat. "Judge for yourself. I found three claims
located. Three. But no name of Adam Forbes to any notice. One claim was called
the 'Goblin Gold--'"

Charlie See rose up as if he were lifted by the hair of his head. "The other
names, Pete! Not the locators. The claims--give me the names of the other two
claims!" "'Nine Bucks' was one--and the 'Please Hush.'" Charlie turned and took
one step, his tensed weight resting on the balls of his feet, his left arm
lashed out to point. All eyes turned to the witness bench--and two witnesses
looked at one. "_Caney!_" thundered Charlie See. Leaping, Caney's arm came from
his coat. See's hand was swifter, unseen. In flashes of fire and smoke, Caney,
even as he leaped up, pitched forward on his face. His arm reached out on the
floor, holding a smoking gun, and See's foot was on the gun. A dozen men had
pulled down Toad Hales and Jody Weir. Gwinne's gun was out. "Stand back! The
next man over the rails gets it!" Maginnis jumped beside him. The shouting crowd
recoiled. "Sit down! Sit down, everybody!" shouted the judge. He pounded on his
desk. "Bojarquez! Ross! Foster! Come up here. I make you deputies. Get this
crowd out or get order." The deafening turmoil stopped as suddenly as it had
begun. "Gwinne, arrest those two men for the murder of Adam Forbes," ordered
Hinkle. "Well, gee-whiz, I'd say they was under arrest now. Here, gimme them."
He reached down and handcuffed Weir and Hales together. "How's Caney, Dines?
Dead?" Johnny knelt by the fallen man. "Dead as a door nail. Three shots. Did he
get you anywhere, See?" "No. He was just one-sixteenth of a second too late."
Charlie See looked hard at the cylinder of his gun. He had fired only two shots.
"Pete, it's a wonder he didn't hit you. You was right in line." "I wasn't
there," said Pete dryly. "Not when the bullets got there. Not good enough."
Gwinne and Maginnis took the two prisoners to jail, by the back door. "Now for a
clearing up," said Judge Hinkle. "You seem to have inside information, Mr. See.
Suppose you tell us about it?" "No chance for a mistake, judge. I had a long
talk with Adam the night before, about a lost gold mine at Mescalero. And three
of the phrases that we used back and forth--it seems he picked them out to name
his find. 'Goblin Gold.' I used the word 'gobbling' gold--joking, you know. And
the story was about 'nine bucks'; and it wound up with an old Mescalero saying
'Won't you please hush?' It wasn't possible that those three names had reached
the papers Pete found, except through the dead man's mind. Adam called these
three men to witness for him, likely. Then they killed him for his mines. They
destroyed his location papers, but they kept the names. Easier than to make up
new ones. That'll hang 'em." "Sounds good. But how are you going to prove it?
Suppose they get a good lawyer and stick to their story? They found a mine, and
you got in a shooting match with Caney. That don't prove anything." "Well, I'll
bet I can prove it," said Johnny Dines. "Ten to one, that letter Forbes gave me
to mail was his location papers. He seemed keen about it." "Did he say anything
about location papers? Was the letter addressed to the recorder?" demanded Pete.
"Look now!" said Johnny. "If this theory of See's is correct, and if that really
was location papers in the letter I mailed--why, that letter won't get here till
two o'clock this afternoon, whether it is the location papers or what. And the
postmaster and the recorder are both here in this court room, judge. Gwinne was
pointing out everybody to me, before you called court. So they can mosey along
down to the post office together--the postmaster and the recorder. And when that
letter comes you'll know all about it." "Ah, that reminds me," said the
judge--"the case of the Territory of New Mexico vs. John Dines is now dismissed.
This court is now adjourned. John Dines, I want to be the first to congratulate
you." "Thanks, Judge.--Hiram," said Johnny, "Cole told me to report to you. He
said I was to go to the John Cross pasture and pick me a mount from the runaways
there." "But, Johnny, you can't ride those horses," said Bojarquez. Johnny
flushed. "Don't you believe it, old hand. You're not the only one that can
ride." Bojarquez spread out his hands. "But bareback? Where ees your saddle? And
the Twilight horse? The bridle, he ees broke. Scarb'ro's in Chihuahua by now."
"Dinner's on me," said Johnny. Charlie See drew Johnny aside and spoke to him in
confidence. "How does it happen you know so pat just when a letter gets to
Hillsboro when it is posted in Garfield?" "A letter? Oh--Hobby Lull, he told
me." "Yes, yes. And what was the big idea for keeping still about that letter
while they wove a rope to your neck?" "Why, my dear man," said Johnny, "I can't
read through a sealed envelope." Charlie sniffed. "You saw a good many things
mighty clear, I notice, but you overlooked the one big bet--like fun you did!
Caney and Weir and Hales--don't you suppose they knew that letter was on the
way? And that it was never to reach the recorder?" "Since you are so very
shrewd," said Johnny, "I sometimes wonder that you are not shrewder still." "And
keep my mouth shut? That's how I shall keep it. But I just wanted you to know.
You may be deceiving me, but you're not fooling me any. Keep your secret."
"Thank you," said Johnny, "I will." "Good boy. All the same, Hobby and I will be
up at the post office. And I know now what we'll find in that letter you mailed.
We'll find Adam's location papers, with them three murderers for witness." And
they did. They found something else too; a message from beyond the grave that in
his hour of fortune their friend did not forget his friends. They buried Adam
Forbes at sundown of that day. No thing was lacking; his friends and neighbors
gathered together to bid him Godspeed; there were love and tears for him. And of
those friends, three were all road stained and weary; they had ridden hard from
Hillsboro for that parting; Lull and Charlie See and old Pete. It was to one of
these that all eyes were turned when the rude coffin was lowered into the grave.
"Pete?" said Jim-Ike-Jones. And old Pete Harkey stepped forth and spoke slowly,
while his faded old eyes looked past the open grave and rested on the hills
beyond. "More than at any other time we strive to center and steady our
thoughts, when we stand by the loved and dead. It is an effort as vain as to
look full and steadily at the blinding sun. I can tell you no thing here which
you do not know. "You all knew Adam Forbes. He was a simple and kindly man. He
brought a good courage to living, he was all help and laughter, he joyed in the
sting and relish of rushing life. Those of you here who were most unfriends to
him will not soon forget that gay, reckless, tender-hearted creature. "You know
his faults. He was given to hasty wrath, to stubbornness and violence. His hand
was heavy. If there are any here who have been wronged by this dead man--as I
think most like--let the memory of it be buried in this grave. It was never his
way to walk blameless. He did many things amiss; he took wrong turnings. But he
was never too proud to turn back, to admit a mistake or to right his wrongdoing.
He paid for what he broke. "For the rest--he fed the hungry, helped the weak, he
nursed the sick and dug graves for the dead. Now, in his turn, it is fitting and
just that no bought hand dug this grave, but that his friends and his foes did
him this last service, and called pleasant dreams to his long sleep. "We have
our dear dreams, too. It can do no harm to dream that somewhere down the skies
that brightness and fire and light still flames--but not for us. "It is written
that upon Mars Hill the men of Athens built an altar 'to the Unknown God.' It
was well builded; and with no misgiving we leave our friend to the care--and to
the honor--of the Unknown God." He stood back; and from the women who wept came
one who did not weep, dry-eyed and pale; whose pitying hand dropped the first
earth into the grave. "Stardust to Stardust," said Edith Harkey. *       *
*       *       *

That night Pete Harkey stood by the big fireplace of the big lonesome house.
"Shall I light the fire, Edith?" "Not to-night, father." In the dimness he
groped for a chair; he took her on his knee, her arms clung fast. "Is it well
with you, Edith?" Then, in the clinging dusk she dared the truth at last; to
ears that did not hear. For his thought was with the dead man. She knew it well;
yet once to tell her story--only once! Her voice rang steady, prouder than any
pride: "I have loved Greatheart. It is well with me." "Poor little girl," he
said. "Poor little girl!" The proud head sought his breast and now her tears
fell fast. *       *       *       *       *

And far away, Charlie See rode south through the wizard twilight. There was no
singing now. For at the world's edge some must fare alone; through all their
dreams one unforgotten face--laughing, and dear, and lost. THE END

TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE:

Minor changes have been made to correct typesetters' errors; otherwise, every
effort has been made to remain true to the author's words and intent.