CHAPTER I

AT HALFMOON FLAT

The road wound ever upward through pines and spruce and several varieties of
oak. Some of the latter were straight, some sprawling, all massive. Now and then
a break in the timber revealed wooded hills beyond green pasture lands, and
other hills covered with dense growths of buckhorn and manzanita. Poison oak
grew everywhere, and, at this time of year--early spring--was most prolific,
most beautiful in its dark rich green, most poisonous. Occasionally the lone
horseman crossed a riotous stream, plunging down from the snow-topped Sierras in
the far distance. Rail fences, for the most part in a tumbledown condition,
paralleled the dirt road here and there. At long intervals they passed tall,
old-fashioned ranch houses, with their accompanying stables, deciduous orchards
and still dormant vineyards, wandering turkeys and mud-incrusted pigs. An air of
decay and haphazard ambition pervaded all these evidences of the dwelling places
of men. "Well, Poche," remarked Oliver Drew, "it's been a long, hard trip, but
we're getting close to home." The man spoke the word "home" with a touch of
bitterness. The rangy bay saddler slanted his left ear back at Oliver Drew and
quickened his walking-trot. "No, no!" laughed Oliver, tightening the reins. "All
the more reason we should take it easy today, old horse. Don't you ever tire?"
For an hour Poche climbed steadily. Now he topped the summit of the miniature
mountain, and Oliver stopped him to gaze down fifteen hundred feet into the
timbered canyon of the American River. Even the cow-pony seemed enthralled with
the grandeur of the scene--the wooded hills climbing shelf by shelf to the
faraway mist-hung mountains; the green river winding its serpentine course far
below. Far up the river a gold dredger was at work, the low rumble of its
machinery carried on the soft morning breeze. Half an hour later Poche ambled
briskly into the little town of Halfmoon Flat, snuggled away in the pines and
spruces, sunflecked, indolent, content. It suited Oliver's mood, this lazy old-
fashioned Halfmoon Flat, with its one shady "business" street, its false-front,
one-story shops and stores, redolent still of the glamorous days of '49. He drew
up before a saloon to inquire after the road he should take out of town to reach
his destination. The loungers about the door of the place all proved to be
French- or Spanish-Basque sheep herders; and their agglutinative language was as
a closed book to the traveler. So he dropped the reins from Poche's neck and
entered the dark, low-ceiled bar-room, with its many decorations of dusty deer
antlers on fly-specked walls. All was strangely quiet within. There were no
patrons, no bartender behind the black, stained bar. He saw this white-aproned
personage, however, a fat, wide, sandy-haired man, standing framed by the rear
door, his back toward the front. Through a dirty rear window Oliver saw men in
the back yard--silent, motionless men, with faces intent on something of
captivating interest, some silent, muscle-tensing event. With awakened wonder he
walked to the fat bartender's back and looked out over his shoulder. Strange
indeed was the scene that was revealed. Perhaps twenty men were in an unfenced
portion of the lot behind the saloon. Some of them had been pitching horseshoes,
for two stood with the iron semicircles still in hand. Every man there gazed
with silent intensity at two central figures, who furnished the drama. The
first, a squat, dark, slit-eyed man of about twenty-five, lazed in a big Western
saddle on a lean roan horse. His left spurred heel stood straight out at right
angles to the direction in which his horse faced. He hung in the saddle by the
bend in his right leg, the foot out of the stirrup, the motionless man facing to
the right, a leering grin on his face, half whimsical, half sardonic. That he
was a fatalist was evidenced by every line on his swarthy, hairless face; for he
looked sneering indifference into the wavering muzzle of a Colt .45, in the hand
of the other actor in the pantomime. His own Colt lay passive against his hip.
His right forearm rested across his thigh, the hand far from the butt of the
weapon. A cigarette drooped lazily from his grinning lips. Yet for all his
indifferent calm, there was in his glittering, Mongolic eyes an eagle
watchfulness that bespoke the fires of hatred within him. The dismounted man who
had the drop on him was of another type. Tall, angular, countrified, he
personified the popular conception of a Connecticut yankee. He boiled with
silent rage as he stood, with long body bent forward, threatening the other with
his enormous gun. Despite the present superiority of his position, there was
something of pathos in his lean, bronzed face, something of a nature
downtrodden, of the worm suddenly turned. For seconds that seemed like ages the
two statuesque figures confronted each other. Men breathed in short inhalations,
as if fearful of breaking the spell. Then the threatened man in the saddle
puffed out a cloud of cigarette smoke, and drawled sarcastically:

"Well, why don't you shoot, ol'-timer? You got the drop." Complete indifference
to his fate marked the squat man's tone and attitude. Only those small black
eyes, gleaming like points of jet from under the lowered Chinamanlike lids,
proclaimed that the other had better make a thorough piece of work of this thing
that he had started. The lank man found his tongue at the sound of the other's
voice. "Why don't I shoot, you coyote whelp! Why don't I shoot! You know why!
Because they's a law in this land, that's why! I oughta kill ye, an' everybody
here knows it, but I'd hang for it." The man on the roan blew another puff of
smoke. "You oughta thought o' that when you threw down on me," he lazily
reminded the other. "_You_ ain't got no license packin' a gun, pardner." The
expression that crossed his antagonist's face was one of torture, bafflement. It
proved that he knew the mounted man had spoken truth. He was no killer. In a fit
of rage he had drawn his weapon and got the drop on his enemy, only to shrink
from the thought of taking a human life and from the consequences of such an
act. But he essayed to bluster his way out of the situation in which his
uncontrollable wrath had inveigled him. "I can't shoot ye in cold blood!" he
hotly cried. "I'm not the skunk that you are. I'm too much of a man. I'll let ye
go this time. But mind me--if you or any o' your thievin' gang pesters me ag'in,
I'll--I'll kill ye!" "Better attend to that little business right now, pardner,"
came the fatalist's smooth admonition. "Don't rile me too far!" fumed the other.
"God knows I could kill ye an' never fear for the hereafter. But I'm a law-
abidin' man, an'"--the six-shooter in his hand was wavering--"an' I'm a law-
abidin' man," he repeated, floundering. "So this time I'll let ye--"

A fierce clatter of hoofs interrupted him. Down the street, across the board
sidewalk, into the lot back of the saloon dashed a white horse, a black-haired
girl astride in the saddle. She reined her horse to its haunches, scattering
spectators right and left. "Don't lower that gun!" she shrieked. "Shoot! Kill
him!" Her warning came too late. It may have been, even, that instead of a
warning it was a knell. For a loud report sent the echoes galloping through the
sleepy little town. The man on the ground, who had half lowered his gun as the
girl raced in, threw up both hands, and went reeling about drunkenly. Another
shot rang out. The squat man still lolled in his saddle, facing to the right.
The gun that he had drawn in a flash when the other's indecision had reached a
climax was levelled rigidly from his hip, the muzzle slowly following his
staggering, twice-wounded enemy. In horror the watchers gazed, silent. The
stricken man reeled against the legs of the girl's horse, strove to clasp them.
The animal snorted at the smell of blood and reared. His temporary support
removed, the man collapsed, face downward, on the ground, turned over once, lay
still. The squat man slowly holstered his gun. Then the first sound to break the
silence since the shots was his voice as he spoke to the girl. "Much obliged,
Jess'my," he said; then straightened in his saddle, spurred the roan, and dashed
across the sidewalk to disappear around the corner of the building. A longdrawn,
derisive "Hi-yi!" floated back, and the clatter of the roan's hoofbeats died
away. The girl had sprung from her mare and was bending over the fallen man. The
others crowded about her now, all talking at once. She lifted a white, tragic
face to them, a face so wildly beautiful that, even under the stress of the
moment, Oliver Drew felt that sudden fierce pang of desire which the first
startled sight of "the one woman" brings to a healthy, manly man. "He's dead!
I've killed him!" she cried. "No, no, no, Miss Jessamy," protested a hoarse
voice quickly. "You wasn't to blame." "O' course not!" chorused a dozen. "He'd
'a' lowered that gun," went on her first consoler. "He was backin' out when you
come, Miss Jessamy. An' as sure as he'd took his gun off Digger Foss, Digger'd
'a' killed 'im. It was a fool business from the start, Miss Jessamy." "Then why
didn't some of you warn this man?" she flamed. "You cowards! Are you afraid of
Digger Foss? Oh, I--"

"Now, looky-here, Miss Jessamy," soothed the spokesman, "bein' afraid o' Digger
Foss ain't got anything to do with it. It wasn't our fight. We had no call to
butt in. Men don't do that in a gun country, Miss Jessamy--you know that. This
fella pulled on Digger, then lost his nerve. What you told 'im to do, Miss
Jessamy, was right. Man ain't got no call to throw down on another one unless he
intends to shoot. You know that, Miss Jessamy--you as much as said so." For
answer the girl burst into tears. She rose, and the silent men stood back for
her. She mounted and rode away without another word, wiping fiercely at her eyes
with a handkerchief. Four men carried the dead man away. The rest, obviously in
need of a stimulant, crowded in and up to the black bar. Oliver joined them. The
weird sight that he had witnessed had left him weak and sick at the stomach.
Silently the fat, blond bartender set out whisky glasses, then looked
hesitatingly at the stranger. "Go ahead, Swede," encouraged a big fellow at
Oliver's left. "He needs one, too. He saw it." The bartender shrugged, thumped a
glass toward Oliver, and broke the laws of the land. "What was it all about?"
Oliver, encouraged by this confidence, asked of the big, goodnatured man who had
vouched for him on sight. The other looked him over. "This fella Dodd," he said,
"started something he couldn't finish--that's all. Dodd's had it in for Digger
Foss and the Selden boys and some more of 'em for a year. Selden was runnin'
cattle on Dodd's land, and Dodd claimed they cut fences to _get_ 'em on. I don't
know what all was between 'em. There's always bad blood between Old Man Selden
and his boys and the rest o' the Poison Oakers, and somebody. "Anyway," he went
on, "this mornin' Henry Dodd comes in and gets the drop on Digger Foss, who's
thick with the Seldens, and is one o' the Poison Oakers; and then Dodd ain't got
the nerve to shoot. You saw what it cost him. Fill 'em up again, boys." "I can't
understand that girl," Oliver remarked. "Why, she rode in and told the man to
shoot--to kill." "And wasn't she right?" "None of the rest of you did it, as she
pointed out to you." "No--men wouldn't do that, I reckon. But a woman's
different. They butt in for what they think's right, regardless. But I look at
it like this, pardner: Dodd's a grown man and is packin' a hip gun. Why's he
packin' it if he don't mean to use it? Only a kid ought to be excused from
flourishin' iron like he did. He was just lettin' off steam. But he picked the
wrong man to relieve himself on. If he'd 'a' killed Digger, as Miss Jessamy told
him to, maybe he'd a hung for it. But he'd a had a chance with a jury. Where if
he took his gat offen Digger Foss, it was sure death. I knew it; all of us knew
it. And I knew he was goin' to lower it after he'd painted pictures in the air
with it and thought he'd convinced all of us he was a bad man, and all that.
He'd never pulled the trigger, and Digger Foss knew it." "Then if this Digger
Foss knew he was only bluffing, he--why, he practically shot the man in cold
blood!" cried Oliver. "Not practically but ab-so-lutely. Digger knew he was
within the law, as they say. While he knew Dodd wouldn't shoot, no prosecutin'
attorney can _prove_ that he knew it. Dodd had held a gun on him and threatened
to kill 'im. When Digger gets the chance he takes it--makes his lightin' draw
and kills Dodd. On the face of it it's self-defence, pure and simple, and
Digger'll be acquitted. He'll be in tonight and give himself up to the
constable. He knows just where he stands." Oliver's informant tossed off his
liquor. "And Miss Jessamy knew all this--see?" he continued. "She savvies
gunmen. She ought to, bein' a Selden. At least she calls herself a Selden, but
her right name's Lomax. Old Man Selden married a widow, and this girl's her
daughter. Well, she rides in and tells Dodd to shoot. She knew it was his life
or Digger's, after he'd made that crack. But the poor fool!--Well, you saw what
happened. Don't belong about here, do you, pardner?" "I do now," Oliver
returned. "I'm just moving in, as it were. I own forty acres down on Clinker
Creek. I came in here to inquire the way, and stumbled onto this tragedy." "On
Clinker Creek! What forty?" "It's called the Old Tabor Ivison Place." "Heavens
above! You own the Old Tabor Ivison Place?" "So the recorder's office says--or
ought to." For fully ten seconds the big fellow faced Oliver, his blue eyes
studying him carefully, appraisingly. "Well, by thunder!" he muttered at last.
"Tell me about it, pardner. My name's Damon Tamroy." "Mine is Oliver Drew," said
Oliver, offering his hand. "Well, I'll be damned!" ejaculated Tamroy in a low
voice, his eyes, wide with curiosity, devouring Oliver. "The Old Ivison Place!"
"You seem surprised." "Surprised! Hump! Say--le'me tell you right here, pardner;
don't _you_ ever pull a gun on any o' the Poison Oakers and act like Henry Dodd
did. Maybe it's well you saw what was pulled off today--if you'll only remember
when you get down there on the Tabor Ivison Place." CHAPTER II

PETER DREW'S LAST MESSAGE

"I'll take a seegar," Mr. Damon Tamroy replied in response to Oliver's
invitation. They lighted up and sat at a card-table against one wall of the
gloomy saloon. "You speak of this as a gun country," remarked Oliver. "Well,
it's at least got traditions," returned Mr. Tamroy, adding the unlettered man's
apology for his little fanciful flight, "'as the fella says.' Like father like
son, you know. The Seldens are gunmen. Old Adam Selden's dad was a 'Forty-niner;
and Adam Selden--the Old Man Selden of today--was born right close to here when
his dad was about twenty-five years old. Le's see--that makes Old Adam 'round
about seventy. But he's spry and full o' pep, and one o' the best rifle shots in
the country. "He takes after the old man, who was a bad actor in the days o'
'Forty-nine, and his boys take after him. They're a bad outfit, takin' 'em all
in all. The boys are Hurlock, Moffat, Bolar, and Winthrop--four of 'em. All
gunmen. Then there's Jessamy Selden--the only girl--who ain't rightly a Selden
at all. None o' the old man's blood in Jessamy, o' course. Mis' Selden--she was
an Ivison before she married Lomax--Myrtle Ivison was her name--she's a fine
lady. But she won't leave the old man for all his wickedness, and Miss Jessamy
won't leave her mother. So there you are!" "I see," said Oliver musingly, not at
all displeased with the present subject of conversation. "Now, here's this
Digger Foss," Tamroy went on. "He's half-American, quarter-Chinaman, and
quarter-Digger-Indian. The last's what gives him his name. There's a tribe o'
Digger Indians close to here. He's killed two men and got away with it. Now he's
added a third to his list, and likely he'll get away with that. The rest o' the
Poison Oakers are Obed Pence, Ed Buchanan, Jay Muenster, and Chuck Allegan--ten
in all." "Just what are the Poison Oakers?" Oliver asked as Damon Tamroy paused
reflectively. "Well, _anybody_ who lives in this country is called a Poison
Oaker. You're one now. The woods about this country are full o' poison oak, and
that's where we get the name. That's what outsiders call us. But when we
ourselves speak of Poison Oakers we mean Old Man Selden's gang--him, his four
sons, and the hombres I just mentioned--a regular old back-country gang o'
rowdies, toughs, would-be bad men. You know what I mean. "They just drifted
together by natural instinct, I reckon. Old Man Selden shot a man up around
Willow Twig, and come clean at the trial. Obed Pence is a thief, and did a
stretch for cattle rustlin' here about three years ago. Chuck and Ed have both
done something to make 'em eligible--knife fightin' at country dances, and the
like. And the Selden boys are chips off the old block." "But what is the gang's
particular purpose?" "Meanness, s'far's I c'n see! Just meanness! Old Man Selden
owns a ranch down your way that you can get to only by a trail. No wheeled
vehicle can get in. All the boys live there with him. Kind of a colony, for two
o' the boys are married. The other Poison Oakers live here and there about the
country, on ranches. Ambition don't worry none of 'em much. Old Man Selden's
said to distil jackass brandy, but it's never been proved." "Now about the Old
Tabor Ivison Place?" said Oliver. "Well, it's there yet, I reckon; but I ain't
been down that way for years. Now and then a deer hunt leads me into Clinker
Creek Canyon, but not often. "It's a lonely, deserted place, and the road to it
is fierce. Several families lived down in there thirty years ago; but the places
have been abandoned long since, and all the folks gone God knows where. It's a
pretty country if a fella likes trees and rocks and things, and wild and rough;
but down in that canyon it's too cold for pears and such fruit--and that's about
all we raise on these rocky hills. "Old Tabor Ivison homesteaded your place.
He's been dead matter o' fifteen years. Died down there. For years he'd lived
there all by 'imself. Good old man. Asked for little in life--and got it. "But
for years now all that country's been abandoned. There's pretty good pickin's
down in there; and Old Man Selden and some more o' the Poison Oakers have been
runnin' cattle on all of it." "I'm glad there's pasture," Oliver interposed.
"Oh, pasture's all right. But Selden's outfit has looked at that land as theirs
for so long that you won't find it particularly congenial. You're bound to have
trouble with the Poison Oakers, Mr. Drew, and I'd consider the land not worth
it. Why, I can buy a thousan' acres down in there for two and a half an acre!
You'll starve to death if you have to depend on that forty for a livin'. How
come you to own the place?" "My father willed it to me," Oliver replied. "Your
father?" "Yes, Peter Drew. Have you ever heard of him?" "No," returned Damon
Tamroy. "I reckon he was here before my time. How'd he come by the place? I
thought one o' the Ivison girls--Nancy--still owned it." "I'm sure I can't tell
you how Dad came to own it," Oliver made answer. "I haven't an abstract of
title. I know, though, that Dad owned it for some time before his death." "Well,
well!" Damon Tamroy's eyes roved curiously over the young man once more. They
steadied themselves on the silver-mounted Spanish spurs on Oliver's riding
boots. "Travellin' horseback?" he wanted to know, and his look of puzzlement
deepened. "Yes," said Oliver a little bitterly. "I'm riding about all that I
possess in this world, since you have pronounced the Old Tabor Ivison Place next
to worthless." He grew thoughtful. "You're puzzled over me," he smiled at last.
"Frankly, though, you're no more puzzled over me than I am over myself and my
rather odd situation. I'm a man of mystery." He laughed. "I think I'll tell you
all about it. "As far back as I can remember, my home has been on a cow ranch in
the southern part of the state. I can't remember my mother, who died when I was
very young. I always thought my father wealthy until he died, two weeks ago, and
his will was read to me. He had orange and lemon groves besides the cattle
ranch, and was a stockholder in a substantial country bank. I was graduated at
the State University, and went from there to France. Since, I've been resting up
and sort of managing Dad's property. "My father was a peculiar man, and was
never overly confidential with me. He was uneducated, as the term is understood
today--a rough-and-ready old Westerner who had made his strike and settled down
to peaceful days--or so I always imagined. But two weeks ago he died suddenly
from a stroke of apoplexy; and when his will was read to me I got a jolt from
which I haven't yet recovered. "The home ranch and the other real estate,
together with all livestock and appurtenances--with one exception, which I shall
mention later--were willed to the Catholic Church, to be handled as they saw
fit. It seemed that there was little else to be disposed of. I was left five
hundred dollars in cash, a saddle horse named Poche, a silver-mounted bridle and
saddle and martingales, the old Spanish spurs you see on my feet, and the Old
Tabor Ivison Place, in Chaparral County, of which I knew almost nothing. That
was all--with the exception of the written instructions in my father's
handwriting that were given me by his lawyers. Maybe you can throw some light on
the matter, Mr. Tamroy. Would you care to hear my father's last message to me?"
Tamroy evinced his eagerness by scraping forward his chair. Oliver took from a
leather billbook a folded piece of paper. "I don't know that I ought to," he
smiled, "but, after all, I'll never learn the mystery of it if I keep the matter
from people about here. So here goes:

"'_My dear son Oliver_:

"'As you know perfectly well, I am an ignorant old Westerner. There is no use
mincing matters in regard to this. When I was      young I didn't have much of a
chance to get an education; but      when I grew up and married, and you was
born, I said you'd      never be allowed to grow up in ignorance like I did. So
I tried      to give you an education, and you didn't fail me.' "'I did this for
a double purpose, Oliver. I knew that I was      going to die someday, and that
then you'd have to settle a      little matter that's bothered me since before
you was born. For      pretty near thirty years, Oliver, I've had a problem to
fight;      and I never knew how to settle the matter because I wasn't
educated. So I let it rest and waited for you to grow up, and      go through
college. And now that's happened; and you're      educated and fit to answer the
question that's bothered me for      nearly half my life. The answer is either
Yes or No, and you've      got to find out which is right.' "'I'm leaving you
Poche, the best cow horse in Southern      California, my old silver-mounted
saddle that's carried me      thousands of miles, the martingales, and my old
silver-mounted      bridle, which same three things made me the envy of all the
vaqueros of the Clinker Creek Country over thirty years ago,      and my Spanish
spurs that go along with the outfit. These      things, Oliver, and five hundred
dollars in Cash, and forty      acres of land on Clinker Creek, in Chaparral
county, called the      Old Tabor Ivison Place.' "'They are all you'll need to
find the answer to the question      that's bothered me for thirty years. Buckle
on the spurs, throw      the saddle on Poche, bridle him, put the five hundred
dollars      and the deed to the Old Tabor Ivison Place in your jeans, and
hit the trail for Clinker Creek. Stay there till you know      whether the
answer is Yes or No. Then go to my lawyers and tell      them which it is. And
the God of your mother go with you!' "'Your affectionate father,'

"'PETER DREW.' "'In his seventy-third year.'" Oliver folded the paper. Damon
Tamroy only sat and stared at him. CHAPTER III

B FOR BOLIVIO

"Boy," said the kindly Mr. Tamroy, leaning forward toward Oliver Drew, "those
are the queerest last words of a father to his son that I ever listened to. What
on earth you goin' to do?" Oliver shrugged and spread his hands. "Keep on
obeying instructions," he said. "I've followed them to the letter so far. I'm
only a few miles from my destination, and I've ridden in the silver-mounted
saddle on Poche's back the entire five hundred miles and over. My father was not
a fool. He was of sound mind, I fully believe, when he wrote that message for
me. There's some deep meaning underlying all this. I must simply stay on the Old
Tabor Ivison Place till I know what puzzled old Dad all those years, and find
out whether the answer is Yes or No." "Heavens above!" muttered Mr. Tamroy. "But
how you goin' to live? What're you goin' to do down in there? Gonta get a job?
It's too far away from everything for you to go and come to a job, Mr. Drew."
"I'll tell you," said Oliver. "At the University I took an agricultural course.
Since my graduation I have written not a few articles and sold them to leading
farm journals. If the Old Tabor Ivison Place is of any value at all, I want to
experiment in raising all sorts of things on a small scale, and write articles
about my results. I'll have a few stands of bees, and maybe a cow. I'll try all
sorts of things, get a second-hand typewriter, and go to it. I think I can live
while I'm waiting for my father's big question to crop up." "You can raise a
garden all right, I reckon," Oliver's new friend told him, following him as he
rose to continue his journey. "But you got to irrigate, and there ain't the
water in Clinker Creek there used to be. Folks up near the headwaters use nearly
all of it, and in the hot months what they turn back will all go up in
evaporation before it gets down to you. There's a good spring, though, but it
strikes me it don't flow anything like it did when Old Tabor Ivison lived on the
land." "Is there a house on the place?" "Only an old cabin. At least there was
last time I chased a buck down in there. And something of a fence, if I remember
right. But fifteen years is a long time--I reckon everything left is next to
worthless." They came to a pause at the edge of the sidewalk beside an aged
villager, who stood leaning on his crooked manzanita cane as he gazed at Poche
and his silver-mounted trappings. "That's Old Dad Sloan," whispered Damon
Tamroy. "He's one o' the last of the 'Forty-niners. Just hobbles about on his
cane, livin' off the county, and waitin' to die. Never saw him take much
interest in anything before, but that outfit o' yours has caught his eye. Little
wonder, by golly!" Oliver stepped into the street and lifted the hair-tassled
reins of the famous bridle. He turned to find the watery blue eyes of the
patriarch fixed on him intently. With a trembling left hand the old man brushed
back his long grey hair, then the fingers shakily caressed a grizzled beard,
flaring and wiry as excelsior. A long finger at length pointed to the horse.
"Where'd you get that outfit, young feller?" came the quavering tones. Mr.
Tamroy winked knowingly at Oliver. "It was my father's," said Oliver in eager
tones. The 'Forty-niner cupped a hand back of his ear. "Hey?" he shrilled.
Oliver lifted his voice and repeated. "Yer papy's hey?" He tottered into the
street and fingered the heavily silvered Spanish halfbreed bit, which, Oliver
had been told, was very valuable intrinsically and as a relic. Then the knotty
fingers travelled up an intricately plaited cheekstrap to one of the glittering
silver-bordered _conchas_. The old fellow fumbled for his glasses, placed them
on his nose, and studied the last named conceit with careful, lengthy scrutiny.
"Is that there glass, young feller?" he croaked at last, pointing to the setting
of the _concha_, a lilac-hued crystal about two inches in diameter. "I think it
is," Oliver shouted. The old man shook his head. "I can't see well any more," he
quavered. "But this don't look like glass to me." "I've never had it examined,"
Oliver told him. "I supposed the settings of the _conchas_ to be glass or some
sort of quartz." "Quartz?" "Yes, sir." The grey head slowly shook back and
forth. "Young man," came the piping tones, "is they a 'B' cut in the metal that
holds them stones in place?" Oliver's eyes widened. "There is," he said. "On the
inside of each one." The old man stared at him, and his bearded lips trembled.
"Bolivio!" he croaked weirdly. "I don't understand," said Oliver. "Bolivio made
them _conchas_, young feller. Bolivio made that bit. Bolivio plaited that
bridle. Bolivio made them martingales." "And who is Bolivio?" puzzled the
stranger. "Dead and gone--dead and gone!" crooned the ancient. "That outfit's
maybe a hundred years old, young feller--part of it, 'tleast. And that ain't
glass in there--and it ain't quartz in in there--and there's only one man ever
in this country ever had a bridle like that." "And who was he?" asked Oliver
almost breathlessly. "Dan Smeed--that's who! Dan Smeed--outlaw, highwayman,
squawman! Dan Smeed--gone these thirty years and more. That's his bridle--that's
his saddle--all made by Bolivio, maybe a hundred years ago. And them stones in
them _conchas_ are gems from the lost mine o' Bolivio. The lost gems o' Bolivio,
young feller!" Oliver and Tamroy stared into each other's eyes as the old man
tottered back to the sidewalk. "Tell me more!" cried Oliver, as the ancient
began tapping his crooked cane along the street. There was no answer. "He didn't
hear," said Tamroy. "We'll get at him again sometime. Maybe he'll tell what he
knows and maybe he won't. He's awful childish--awful headstrong. For days at a
time he won't speak to a soul." Oliver stood in deep thought, mystified beyond
measure, yet thrilled with the thought that he was nearing the beginning of the
trail to the mysterious question. He roused himself at length. "Well, I must be
getting along," he said. "I'll go right down to Clinker Creek now, if you'll
point the way. I've enough grub behind my saddle for tonight and tomorrow
morning. There's grass for the horse at present?" "Oh, yes--horse'll get along
all right." "Then I'll go down and give my property the once-over, and be up
tomorrow to get what I need." Damon Tamroy showed him the road and shook hands
with him. "Ride up and get acquainted regular someday," he invited. "I got a
little ranch up the line--pears and apples and things. Give you some cherries a
little later on. Well, so-long. Remember the Poison Oakers!" Oliver galloped
away, his flashing equipment the target of all eyes, on the road that led to the
Old Tabor Ivison Place, his brain in a whirl of excitement. CHAPTER IV

THE FIRST CALLER

Toward noon Poche was carefully feeling his way down the rocky canyon of Clinker
Creek, over a forgotten road. Oliver walked, for Poche needs must scramble over
huge boulders, fallen pines, and tangles of driftwood. The road followed the
course of the creek for the most part, and in many places the creek had broken
through and washed great gaps. But the country was delightful. Wild grapevines
grew in profusion at the creekside, gracefully festooned from overhanging
buckeye limbs. Odorous alders, several varieties of willow, and white oak also
followed the watercourse; and up on the hills on either side were black oaks and
live oaks, together with yellow and sugar and digger pines, and spruce.
Everywhere grew the now significant poison oak. Finally Poche scraped through
chaparral that almost hid the road and came out in a clearing. Oliver at last
stood looking at his future home. A quaint old cabin, with a high peaked roof,
apparently in better repair than he had expected, stood on a little rise above
the creek. The canyon widened here, and narrowed again farther down. The creek
bowed and followed the base of the steep hills to the west. A level strip of
land comprising about an acre paralleled the creek, and invited tillage. All
about the clearing, perhaps fifteen acres in area, stood tall pines and spruce,
and magnificent oaks rose above the cabin, their great limbs sprawled over it
protectingly. Acres and acres of heavy, impenetrable chaparral covered both
steep slopes beyond the conifers. For several minutes Oliver drank in the beauty
of it, then heaved himself into the saddle and galloped to the cabin over the
unobstructed land. He loosed Poche when the saddle and bridle were off, and the
horse eagerly buried his muzzle in the tall green grass. Up in the branches
paired California linnets, red breasted for their love season, went over plans
and specifications for nest-building with much conversation and flit-flit of
feathered wings. Wild canaries engaged in a like pursuit. Overhead in the
heavens an eagle sailed. From the sunny chaparral came the scolding quit-quit-
quit of mother quail, while the pompous cocks perched themselves at the tops of
manzanita bushes and whistled, "Cut that out! Cut that out!" All Nature was
home-building; and Oliver forgot the loss of the fortune he had expected at his
father's death and caught the spirit. He collected oak limbs and built a fire.
He carried water from the creek and set it on to boil. While waiting for this he
strolled about, revelling in the soft spring air, fragrant with the smell of
wild flowers. That the cabin had been occupied often by hunters and other
wanderers in the canyon was evidenced by the many carvings on the door and signs
of bygone campfires all about. He stepped upon the rotting porch and studied the
monograms, initials, and flippant messages of the lonely men who had passed that
way. "All hope abandon, ye who enter here" was carved in ancient letters just
under the lintel of the door. Next he was informed that "Fools names, like their
faces, are always seen in public places." "Only a sucker would live here" was
the parting decision of some disgruntled guest. "Home, Sweet Home" adorned the
bottom of the door. One panel had proved an excellent target, and no less than
twenty bullet holes had made a sieve of it. "Welcome, Wanderer!" and "Dew Drop
Inn" and "Though lost to sight to memory dear" occupied conspicuous places. Then
on the right-hand frame he noticed this:

[Illustration: Beware]

The carving was neatly executed. The leaves represented were indisputably those
of the poison oak. Had some one carved this in a jocular effort to warn chance
visitors to the place of the danger of the poison weed? Or did the carving
represent the emblem of the Poison Oakers? Oliver smiled grimly and opened the
door. He passed through the three small rooms of the house and investigated the
loft. The structure seemed solid. A new roof would be necessary, and new windows
and frames and a new porch; and as Oliver was no mean carpenter, he thought he
could make the cabin snug and tight for seventy-five dollars. The front door had
closed of itself, he found, when he started back to his campfire. He stopped in
the main room, and a smile, slightly bitter, flickered across his lips. As
neatly carved as was the symbol of the Poison Oakers outside--if that was what
it was--and evidently executed by the same hand, was this, on the inside of the
door:

JESSAMY, MY SWEETHEART

Oliver went on out and squatted over his fire, peeling potatoes. His blue eyes
grew studious. In the flickering blaze he saw the picture of a black-eyed,
black-haired girl on a white horse crouched on its haunches. "Great Scott!" he
muttered. "I'll have to forget that!" *       *       *       *       *

In the month that followed, Oliver Drew, spurred by feverish enthusiasm, worked
miracles on the Old Tabor Ivison Place. He repaired the line fences and
rehabilitated the cabin; bought a burro and pack-saddle and packed in lumber and
tools and household necessities; fenced off his experimental garden on the level
land with rabbit-tight netting; cleaned and boxed the spring; and early in May
was following the spading up of his garden plot by planting vegetable seed. With
all this behind him, he went at the clearing of the road that connected him with
his kind. Today as he laboured with pick and shovel and bar he was cheerful,
though his thoughts clung to the subject of his father's death and the odd
situation in which it had left him. He had fully expected to inherit properties
and money to the extent of a hundred thousand dollars. He was not particularly
resentful because this had not come to pass, for he never had been a pampered
young man; but the mystery of his father's last message puzzled and chagrined
him. He would always remember Peter Drew as a peculiar man. He had been a kindly
father, but a reticent one. There were many pages in his past that never had
been opened to his son. Oliver was the child of Peter Drew's second wife. About
the queer old Westerner's former marriage he had been told practically nothing.
Believing his father to have been of sound mind when he penned that last strange
communication, Oliver could not hold that the situation which it imposed was not
for the best. Surely old Peter Drew had had some wise reason for his act, and in
the end Oliver would know what it was. He had been told to seek the Clinker
Creek Country to learn the question that had puzzled his father for thirty
years, to decide whether the proper answer was Yes or No, and communicate his
decision to his father's lawyers. That was all. When in the wisdom which his
father had supposed would be the natural result of his son's university training
he had made his decision and placed it before these legal gentlemen, what would
happen? Speculation over this led nowhere. At first it had seemed to Oliver that
the mission with which he had been intrusted was more or less a secret matter,
and that he must keep still about it. Then as the staunch cow-pony bore him
nearer and nearer to the Clinker Creek Country it gradually dawned upon him
that, by so doing, he might stand a poor chance of even finding out what had
puzzled his sire. To say nothing of the answer which he was to seek. It was then
he decided that he had nothing to hide and must place his situation before the
people of the country who would likely be able to help him. Hence his
confidences to Mr. Damon Tamroy. Tamroy had aided him not at all; but the
'Forty-niner, Old Dad Sloan, knew something. Dan Smeed, outlaw, highwayman, had
owned a saddle and bridle like Oliver's. The old man had mysteriously mentioned
the lost mine of Bolivio, and had said the settings in Oliver's _conchas_ were
gems. If only the old man could be made to talk! The muffled thud of a horse's
hoofs came between the strokes of Oliver's pick. With an odd and unfamiliar
sensation he glimpsed a white horse and rider approaching through the pines. It
was she--Jessamy Selden--the black-haired, black-eyed girl of whom he
reluctantly had thought so often since his first day in the Clinker Creek
Country. She was riding straight down the canyon, the white mare gingerly
picking her way between boulders and snarls of driftwood. The girl looked up.
Oliver felt that she saw him. Her ears could not have been insensible to the
ring of his pick on the flinty stones. She did not leave the trail, however, but
continued on in his direction. He rested on the handle of his tool and waited.
"Good morning," he ventured, sweeping off his battered hat, as the mare stopped
without pressure on the reins and gravely contemplated him. The girl smiled and
returned his greeting brightly. "If you had waited a few days longer for your
ride down here," said Oliver, "I'd have had a better trail for you." "Oh, I
don't know that I want it any better," she laughed. "I like things pretty much
as they are, when Old Mother Nature has built them. I ride down this way
frequently." She was no fragile reed, this girl. She was rather more
substantially built than most members of her sex. Her figure was straight and
tall and rounded, and her strong, graceful neck upreared itself proudly between
sturdy shoulders. Grace and strength, rather than purely feminine beauty,
predominated in the impression she created in Oliver. She wore a man's Stetson
hat over her lavish crown of coal-black hair, a man's flannel shirt, a whipcord
divided skirt, and dark-russet riding boots. The saddle that she rode in had not
been built for a woman to handle, and, with its long, pointed tapaderos, must
have weighed close to fifty pounds. The steady, friendly, confident gaze of her
large black eyes was thrilling. A man instinctively felt that, if he could win
this woman, he would have acquired a wife among a thousand, a loyal friend and
comrade, and a partner who could and would shoulder more than a woman's share of
their load. Still, Oliver knew nothing at all about her. What he had heard of
her was not exactly of the best. Yet he felt that she was gloriously all right,
and did not try to argue otherwise. "Well, I suppose I must introduce myself
first," she was saying in her full, ringing tones. "I'm Jessamy Selden. My name
is not Selden, though, but Lomax. When my mother married Adam Selden I took her
new name. I heard somebody had moved onto the Old Ivison Place, and I
deliberately rode down to get acquainted." "You waited a month, I notice,"
Oliver laughingly reproached. "My name is Oliver Drew. If you'll get off your
horse I'll tell you what a wonderful man I am." She swung to the ground and held
out a strong, brown, ungloved hand. "I'll walk to your cabin with you," she
said, "if you'll invite me. I'd like to see how you've been improving your time
since your arrival." Scarce able to find words with which to meet such
delightful frankness, Oliver walked beside her, the white mare following and
nosing at his pockets to prove that she was a privileged character. The girl
loosed her within the inclosure, and let her drag her reins. Poche trotted up to
make the white's acquaintance, followed by the new mouse-coloured burro, Smith,
who long since had assumed a "where thou goest I will go" affection for the bay
saddler. Jessamy Selden came to a stop before the cabin, her black eyes dancing.
"Who would have thought," she said in low tones, "that the Clinker Creek people
ever would see the old Ivison cabin rebuilt and inhabited once more! How
sturdily it must have been built to stand up against wind and storm all these
years. Are you going to invite me in and show me around?" She levelled that
direct glance at him and showed her white teeth in a smile. Oliver was thinking
of the carving on the inside of the old door, "Jessamy, My Sweetheart." He had
not replaced the door with a new one, for every penny counted. It still was
serviceable; and, besides, there seemed to be a sort of companionship about the
carved observations of the unknowns who had been sheltered by the old cabin
during the past fifteen years. "You've been in the house often, I suppose?" He
made it a question. "Oh, yes," she said. "I've lunched in it many a time, and
have run in out of the rain during winter months. I slept in it all night once."
"You seem to be an independent sort of young woman," suggested Oliver. "I'm a
rather lonely sort of woman, if that's what you mean," she replied. "Yes, I ride
about lots alone. I like it. Don't you want me to go in?" "Er--why, certainly,"
he stammered. "Please don't think me inhospitable. Come on." He led the way, and
stood back for her at the door. He would leave the door open, swung back into
the corner, he thought, so that she would not see the carving. She had been in
the cabin many times. Did she know the carving to be there? Of course it might
have been executed since her last visit, though it did not seem very fresh. Who
had carved the words? Oliver could imagine any of the young Clinker Creek swains
as being secretly in love with this marvellous girl, and pouring out his
tortured soul through the blade of his jack-knife when securely hidden from
profane eyes in this vast wilderness. She passed complimentary remarks about his
practically built home-made furniture, and the neatness and necessary simplicity
of everything. "What an old maid you are for one so young!" she laughed. "And,
please, what's the typewriter for--if I'm not too bold?" "Well," said Oliver,
"it occurred to me that I must make a living down here. I'm a graduate of the
State College of Agriculture, and I like to farm and write about it. I've sold
several articles to agricultural papers. I'm going to experiment here, and try
to make a living by writing up the results!" "Why, how perfectly fine!" she
cried enthusiastically. "I couldn't imagine anything more engrossing. I'm a
State University girl." "You don't say!" And this furnished a topic for ten
minutes' conversation. "If you're as good a writer and farmer as you are tinker
and carpenter," she observed, passing into the front room again, "you'll do
splendidly." She was standing, straight as a young spruce, hands on hips,
looking with twinkling eyes at the open door. "The old door still hangs, I see,"
she murmured. "Now just why didn't you replace it, Mr. Drew?" Oliver looked
apprehensive. "Well," he replied hesitatingly, "for several reasons. First, a
new door costs money, and so would the lumber with which to make one--and I
haven't much of that article. Second, I get some amusement from looking at those
old carvings and speculating on the possible personalities of the carvers. For
all I know, some great celebrities' ideas may be among those expressed there--
some future great man, at any rate. The boy one meets in the street may one day
be president, you know. Then there's a sort of companionship about those names
and monograms and quotations. The fellow that informs me that only suckers live
here I'd like to meet. He was so blunt about it, so sure. He--er--"

Smiling, she had stepped to the door and, arms still akimbo, allowed her glance
to travel from one design to another. She raised an arm and levelled a finger.
"What do you think of that one?" she asked. "Well," said Oliver, "that's a
rather well executed poison oak leaf. The hills are covered with the plant. I
imagine that some wanderer not immune from the poison came into contact with it,
and, though his eyes were swelled half shut and his fingers itched and tingled,
his right hand had not lost its cunning. So he took out his trusty blade and
carved a warning for all future pilgrims who chanced this way to beware of this
tree that is in the midst of the garden, and to not touch it lest they--"

"Itch," Jessamy gravely put in. "Quite pretty and poetic," she supplemented.
"But you are entirely wrong, Mr. Drew. That carving is, first of all, a copy of
the brand of Old Man Selden, and you'll find it on all his cows. All but the
word 'Beware,' of course, you understand. Second, it represents the silly symbol
of a gang that infests this country known as the Poison Oakers. Oh, you've heard
of them!" she had turned suddenly and surprised the look on his face. "It sounds
very bloodthirsty," he laughed confusedly. "I'll tell you more, then, when I
know you better," she said. "No, I'll tell you today," she added quickly. Then
before he could make a move she had closed the door to examine what might be
carved on the inner side. "Tell me now," said Oliver quickly. "Try this chair
here by the window. I'm rather proud of this one. It's my first attempt at a
morris ch--"

"Come here, please," she commanded, standing with her back to him. "Don't act so
like a boy," she reproved as he dutifully stepped up behind her. "Anybody would
know you are clumsily trying to detract my attention from--that." The brown
finger was pointing straight at JESSAMY, MY SWEETHEART. She turned and levelled
her frank, unabashed eyes straight at his. "So that's why you hesitated about
inviting me in," she stated, her lips twitching and dimples appearing and
disappearing in her cheeks. "Frankly, yes," he told her gravely. Her glance did
not leave him. "Mr. Tamroy told me he had mentioned me to you," she said. "So of
course you knew, when you saw this carving, that I was the subject of the
raving. And when you saw me you wished to spare me embarrassment. Thank you. But
you see I'm not at all embarrassed. I have never before seen this masterpiece in
wood, and imagine it has been done since I was in the cabin last. Let's see--I
doubt if I've been inside for a year or more. I think perhaps Mr. Digger Foss is
the one who tried to make his emotions deathless by this work of art. 'Jessamy,
My Sweetheart,' eh?" She threw back her glorious head and laughed till two tears
streamed down her tanned cheeks. "Poor Digger!" she said soberly at last. "I
suppose he does love me." "Who wouldn't," thought Oliver, but bit his lips
instead of speaking. "You may leave that, Mr. Drew," she told him, "until you
get ready to replace the old door with a new one. I would not have the
irrefutable evidence of at least one conquest blotted out for worlds. Now let's
go out in that glorious sunlight, and I'll tell you about Old Man Selden and the
Poison Oakers." CHAPTER V

"AND I'LL HELP YOU!" What Jessamy Selden told Oliver Drew of the Poison Oakers
was about the same as he had heard from Damon Tamroy. She used his sawbuck for a
seat, and sat with one booted ankle resting on a knee, idly spinning the rowel
of her spur as she talked. Oliver listened without interruption until she
finished and once more levelled that straightforward glance at him. "The cows
have been down below on winter pasture," she added. "Adam Selden and the boys
rode out yesterday to start the spring drive into the foothills. You'll awake
some morning soon to find red cattle all about you, and they'll be here till
August." "Well," he said, "I don't know that I shall mind them. My fence is
pretty fair, and with a little more repairing will turn them, I think." She
twirled her rowel in silence for a time, her eyes fixed on it. Then she said:

"It isn't that, Mr. Drew. I may as well tell you right now what I came down here
purposely to tell you. You're not wanted here. All of this land has been
abandoned so long that Adam Selden and the gang have come to consider it their
property--or at least free range." "But they'll respect my right of ownership."
"I don't know--I don't know. I'm afraid they won't. They're a law unto
themselves down in here. They'll try to run you out." "How?" "Any way--every
way. If nothing else occurs to them, they'll begin a studied system of
persecution with the idea of making you so sick of your bargain that you'll pull
stakes and hit the trail. That poor man Dodd! Mr. Tamroy told me you happened
into the saloon in time to see the shooting. Wasn't it terrible! And how they
persecuted him--fairly drove him into the rash act that cost him his life!" She
lifted her glance again. "Mr. Tamroy tells me that you were shocked at me that
day." "I guess I didn't fully understand the circumstances." "I did," she firmly
declared, her lips setting in what would have been a grim smile but for the
dimples that came with it. "I understood the situation," she went on. "Digger
Foss had been waiting for just that chance. There's just enough Indian and
Chinese blood in him to make him a fatalist. He's therefore deadly. Has no fear
of death. He's cruel, merciless. I knew when I saw Henry Dodd covering him with
that gun that, if he didn't finish what he'd started, he was a dead man. He
couldn't even have backed off gracefully, keeping Digger covered, and got away
alive. Digger is so quick on the draw, and his aim is so deadly. He's a master
gunman. Even had Dodd succeeded in getting away then, he would have been a
marked man. He had thrown down on Digger Foss. Digger would have got the drop on
him next time they met and killed him as you would a coyote. So in my excitement
I rushed in with my well meant warning, and--Oh, it was horrible!" "And you
meant actually for Dodd to kill Foss?" Her black eyes dilated, and an angry
flush blended with the tan on her cheeks. "It was one or the other of them," she
told him coldly. "Mr. Dodd was an honest, plodding man--a good citizen. Foss is
a renegade. Was I so very bloodthirsty in trying to make the best of a bad
situation by choosing, on the spur of the moment, which man ought to live on?
I'm not the fainting kind of woman, Mr. Drew. One must be practical, if he can,
even over matters like that." "I'm not condemning," he said. "I'm only wondering
that a woman could be so practical in such a situation." "Digger Foss hasn't
seen me since then," she observed. "He's in jail, awaiting trial, at the county
seat. He'll be acquitted, of course. I'm wondering what he'll have to say to me
when he is free again." Oliver said nothing to this. "I must be going," she
declared, rising suddenly. "As I said, I came down to warn you to be on your
guard against the Poison Oakers." He caught her pony and led it to her. She
swung into the saddle, then slued toward him, leaned an elbow on the horn and
rested her chin in the palm of her hand. Once more that direct gaze of her frank
black eyes looked him through and through. "Well," she asked, "will the Poison
Oakers run you off?" "Oh, I think not," he laughed lightly. "They'll be ten
against one, Mr. Drew." "There's law in the land." "Yes, there's law," she
mused. "But it's so easy for unscrupulous people to get around the law. They can
subject you to no end of persecution, and you won't even be able to prove that
one of them is behind it." She looked him over deliberately. "I'm glad you've
come," she said. "You're an educated man, and blessed with a higher order of
character than has been anybody else who stood to cross the Poison Oakers.
Somehow, I feel that you are destined to be their undoing. They must be
corralled and their atrocities brought to an end. You must be the one to put the
quietus on that gang. And I'll help you. Good-bye!" She lifted the white mare
into a lope, opened the gate, rode through and closed it without leaving the
saddle, then, waving back at him, disappeared in the chaparral. CHAPTER VI

ACCORDING TO THE RECORDS

Oliver Drew had found a bee tree on the backbone of the ridge between the Old
Ivison Place and the American River. He stood contemplating it, watching the
busy little workers winging their way to and from the hole in the hollow trunk,
planning to change their quarters and put them to work for him. Far below him,
down a precipitous pine-studded slope, the green American River raced toward the
ocean. There had been a week of late rains, and good grass for the summer was
assured. Away through the tall trees below him he saw red cows filtering along,
cropping eagerly at the lush growth after a long dusty trip from the drying
lowlands. Now and then he saw a horseman galloping along a mile distant. He
heard an occasional faint shout, borne upward on the soft spring wind. The
Seldens were ending the drive of their cattle to summer pastures. He turned
suddenly as he heard the tramp of hoofs. Six horsemen were approaching, along
the backbone of the ridge, winding in and out between clumps of the sparse
chaparral. In the lead, straight and sturdy as some ancient oak, rode a tall man
with grey hair that hung below his ears and a flowing grey beard. He wore the
conventional cowpuncher garb, from black-silk neckerchief, held in place by a
poker chip with holes bored in it, to high-heeled boots and chaps. He rode a
gaunt grey horse. His tapaderos flapped loosely against the undergrowth, and, so
long were the man's legs, they seemed almost to scrape the ground. A holstered
Colt hung at the rider's side. Silent, stern of face, this old man rode like the
wraith of some ancient chieftain at the head of his hard-riding warriors. Those
who followed him were younger men, plainly _vaqueros_. They lolled in their
saddles, and smoked and bantered. But Oliver's eyes were alone for the stalwart
figure in the lead, who neither spoke nor smiled nor paid any attention to his
band, but rode on grimly as if heading an expedition into dangerous and unknown
lands. Undoubtedly this was Old Man Selden and his four sons, together with
other members of the Poison Oakers Gang. They had left the cows to themselves
and were making their way homeward after the drive. Oliver's first impulse was
to hide behind a tree and watch, for he felt that he should forego no chance of
a strategic advantage. Then he decided that it was not for him to begin
manoeuvring, and stood boldly in full view, wondering whether the riders would
pass without observing him. They did not. He heard a sharp word or two from some
follower of the old man, and for the first time the leader showed signs of
knowing that he was not riding alone. He slued about in his saddle. A hand
pointed in Oliver's direction. The old man reined in his grey horse and looked
toward Oliver and the bee tree. The other horsemen drew up around him. There was
a short consultation, then all of them leaned to the right in their saddles and
galloped over the uneven land. They reined in close to the lone man, and a
dusty, sweaty, hard-looking clan they were. Keen, curious eyes studied him, and
there was no mistaking the insolent and bullying attitude of their owners. A
quick glance Oliver gave the five, then his interest settled on their leader.
Adam Selden was a powerful man. His nose was of the Bourbon type, large and
deeply pitted. His eyes were blue and strong and dominating. "Howdy?" boomed a
deep bass voice. Oliver smiled. "How do you do?" he replied. Then silence fell,
while old Adam Selden sat rolling a quid of tobacco in his mouth and studying
the stranger with inscrutable cold blue eyes. "I've found a bee tree," said
Oliver when the tensity grew almost unbearable. "I was just figuring on the best
way to hive the little rascals." Selden slowly nodded his great head up and down
with exasperating exaggeration. "Stranger about here, ain't ye?" he asked.
"Well, I've been here over a month," Oliver answered. "I own the Old Tabor
Ivison Place, down there in the valley. My name is Oliver Drew, and I guess
you're Mr. Selden." Another long pause, then--

"Yes, I'm Selden. Them's my cows ye see down there moseyin' up the river bottom
and over the hills. I been runnin' cows in here summers for a good many years.
Just so!" "I see," said Oliver, not knowing what else to say. "Three o' these
men are my boys," Selden drawled on. "The rest are friends o' ours. Has anybody
told ye about the poison oak that grows 'round here?" "I'm familiar with it,"
Oliver told him. "Ain't scared o' poison oak, then?" "Not at all. I'm immune."
"It's a pesterin' plant. You'll chafe under it and chafe under it, and think
it's gone; then here she comes back again, redder and lumpier and itchier than
ever." "I'm quite familiar with its persistence," Oliver gravely stated. "And
still ye ain't afraid o' poison oak?" "Not in the least." The gang was grinning,
but the chief of the

Poison Oakers maintained a straight face. "Ain't scared of it, then," he drawled
on. "Well, now, that's handy. I like to meet a man that ain't scared o' poison
oak. Got yer place fenced, I reckon?" "Yes, I've repaired the fence." "That's
right. That's always the best way. O' course the law says we got to see that our
stock don't get on your prop'ty. Whether that there's a good and just law or not
I ain't prepared to say right now. But we got to obey it, and we always try to
keep our cows offen other folks' pasture. But it's best to fence, whether ye got
stock o' yer own or not. Pays in the long run, and keeps a fella outa trouble
with his neighbours. But the best o' fencin' won't keep out the poison oak. O'
course, though, you know that. Now what're ye gonta do down there on the Old
Ivison Place?--if I ain't too bold in askin'." "Have a little garden, and maybe
get a cow later on. Put a few stands of bees to work for me, if I can find
enough swarms in the woods. I have a saddle horse and a burro to keep the grass
down now. I don't intend to do a great deal in the way of farming." "I'd think
not," Selden drawled. "Land about here's good fer nothin' but grazin' a few
months outa the year. Man would be a fool to try and farm down where you're at.
How ye gonta make a livin'?--if I'm not too bold in askin'." "I intend to write
for agricultural papers for my living," said Oliver. Silence greeted this. So
far as their experience was concerned, Oliver might as well have stated that he
was contemplating the manufacture of tortoise-shell side combs to keep soul and
body to their accustomed partnership. "How long ye owned this forty?" Old Man
Selden asked. "Only since my father's death, this year." "Yer father, eh? Who
was yer father?" "Peter Drew, of the southern part of the state." "How long'd he
own that prop'ty before he died?" "He owned it for some time, I understand,"
said Oliver patiently. The grey head shook slowly from side to side. "I can show
ye, down to the county seat, that Nancy Fleet--who was an Ivison and sister o'
the woman I married here about four year ago--owned that land up until the first
o' the year, anyway. It was left to her by old Tabor Ivison when he died. That
was fifteen year ago, and I've paid the taxes on it ever since for Nancy Fleet,
for the privilege o' runnin' stock on it. I paid the taxes last year. What 'a'
ye got to say to that?" Oliver Drew had absolutely nothing to say to it. He
could only stare at the gaunt old man. "But I have the deed!" he burst out at
last. "And I've got last year's tax receipts," drawled Adam Selden. "Ye better
go down to the county seat and have a look at the records," he added, swinging
his horse about. "Then when ye've done that, I'd like a talk with ye. Just so!
Just so!" He rode off without another word, the gang following. Early next
morning Oliver was in the saddle. As Poche picked his way out of the canyon
Oliver espied Jessamy Selden on her white mare, standing still in the county
road. "Good morning," said the girl. "You're late. I've been waiting for you ten
minutes." Oliver's lips parted in surprise, and she laughed good-naturedly. "I
thought you'd be riding out early this morning," she explained, "so I rode down
to meet you. I feel as if a long ride in the saddle would benefit me today. Do
you mind if I travel with you to the county seat?" He had ridden close to her by
this time, and offered his hand. "You like to surprise people, don't you?" he
accused. "The answer to your question is, I do not mind if you travel with me to
the county seat. But let me tell you--you'll have to travel. This is a horse
that I'm riding." She turned up her nose at him. "I like to have a man talk that
way to me," she said. "Don't ever dare to hold my stirrup for me, or slow down
when you think the pace is getting pretty brisk, or anything like that." "I
wouldn't think of such discourtesy," he told her seriously. "You noticed that I
let you mount unaided the other day. I might have walked ahead, though, and
opened the gate for you if you hadn't loped off." "That's why I did it," she
demurely confessed. "I'm rather proud of being able to take care of myself. And
as for that wonderful horse of yours, he does look leggy and capable. But, then,
White Ann has a point or two herself. Let's go!" Their ponies took up the
walking-trot of the cattle country side by side toward Halfmoon Flat. "Well,"
Oliver began, "of course my meeting you means that you know I've had an
encounter with Adam Selden, and that he has told you he doubts if I am the
rightful owner of the Tabor Ivison Place." "Yes, I overheard his conversation
with Hurlock last night," she told him. "So I thought I'd ride down with you,
sensing that you would be worried and would hit the trail this morning." "I am
worried," he said. "I can't imagine why your step-father made that statement."
"Just call him Adam or Old Man Selden when you're speaking of him to me," she
prompted. "Even the 'step' in front of 'father' does not take away the bad
taste. And you might at least _think_ of me as Jessamy Lomax. I will lie in the
bed I made when I espoused the name of Selden, for it would be stupid to go
about now notifying people that I have gone back to Lomax again. My case is not
altogether hopeless, however. You are witness that I have a fair chance of some
day acquiring the name of Foss, at any rate. So you are worried about the land
tangle?" "What can it mean?" he puzzled. "This probably is not the first
instance in which a deed has not been recorded promptly," she ventured. "That
won't affect your ownership. Personally I know that Aunt Nancy Fleet's name
appears in the records down at the county seat as the owner of the property. She
sold it to your father, doubtless, and the transfer never was recorded. Where is
your deed?" He slapped his breast. "See that you keep it there," she said
significantly. "You say you know that your Aunt Nancy Fleet is named as owner of
the property in the county records?" She nodded. "Then she has allowed Adam
Selden to believe that she still owns it!" he cried. "And this is proved by
reason of her having allowed him to pay the taxes for the right to run stock on
the land." She nodded again. He wrinkled his brows. "It would seem to be a sort
of conspiracy against Adam Selden by your Aunt Nancy and--" He paused. "And
who?" "Well, it's not like my father's business methods to allow a deed to go
unrecorded for fifteen years," he told her. "Not at all like Dad. So I must name
him as a party to this conspiracy against old Adam. But what is the meaning of
it, Miss Selden?" "I'm sure I am not in a position to say," she replied lightly.
"Some day, when you've got things to running smoothly down there, I'll take you
to see Aunt Nancy. She lives up in Calamity Gap--about ten miles to the north of
Halfmoon Flat. Maybe she can and will explain." He regarded her steadily; but
for once her eyes did not meet his, though he could not say that this was
intentional on her part. "By George, I believe _you_ can explain it!" he
accused. "I?" "You heard me the first time." "Did you learn that expression at
the University of California or in France?" "I stick to my statement," he
grumbled. "Do so, by all means. Just the same, I am not in a position to
enlighten you. But I promise to take you to Aunt Nancy whenever you're ready to
go. There's an Indian reservation up near where she lives. You'll want to visit
that. We can make quite a vacation of the trip. You'll see a riding outfit or
two that will run close seconds to yours for decoration and elaborate
workmanship. My! What a saddle and bridle you have! I've been unable to keep my
eyes off them from the first; but you were so busy with your land puzzle that I
couldn't mention them. I've seen some pretty elaborate rigs in my day, but
nothing to compare with yours. It's old, too. Where did you get it?" "They were
Dad's," he told her. "He left them and Poche to me at his death. I must tell you
of something that happened when I first showed up in Halfmoon Flat in all my
grandeur. Do you know Old Dad Sloan, the 'Forty-niner?" She nodded, her glance
still on the heavy, chased silver of his saddle. Then Oliver told her of the
queer old man's mysterious words when he saw the saddle and bridle and
martingales, and the stones that were set in the silver _conchas_. She was
strangely silent when he had finished. Then she said musingly:

"The lost mine of Bolivio. Certainly that sounds interesting. And Dan Smeed,
squawman, highwayman, and outlaw. The days of old, the days of gold--the days of
'Forty-nine! Thought of them always thrills me. Tell me more, Mr. Drew. I know
there is much more to be told." "I'll do it," he said; and out came the strange
story of Peter Drew and his last message to his son. Her wide eyes gazed at him
throughout the recital and while he read the message aloud. They were sparkling
as he concluded and looked across at her. "Oh, that dear, delightful, romantic
old father of yours!" she cried. "You're a man of mystery--a knight on a secret
quest! Oh, if I could only help you! Will you let me try?" "I'd be only too glad
to shift half the burden of finding the question and its correct answer to your
strong shoulders," he said. "Then we'll begin just as soon as you're ready," she
declared. "I have a plan for the first step. Wait! I'll help you!" Shortly
before noon they dropped rein before the court house and sought the county
recorder's office. Oliver gave the legal description of his land, and soon the
two were pouring over a cumbersome book, heads close together. To his vast
surprise, Oliver found that his deed had been recorded the second day after his
father's death, and that, up until that recent date, the land had appeared in
the records as the property of Nancy Fleet. "Dad's lawyers did this directly
after his death," he said to Jessamy. "They sent the deed up here and had it
recorded just before turning it over to me. Adam Selden hasn't seen it yet. Say,
this is growing mighty mysterious, Miss Selden." "Delightfully so," she agreed.
"Now as you weren't expecting me to come along, have you enough money for lunch
for two? If not, I have. We'd better eat and be starting back." CHAPTER VII

LILAC SPODUMENE

Once more Oliver Drew rode out of Clinker Creek Canyon to find Jessamy Selden,
straight and strong and dependable looking, waiting for him in her saddle. On
this occasion he joined her by appointment. She looked especially fresh and
contrasty today. Her black hair and eyes and her red lips and olive skin, with
the red of perfect health so subtly blended into the tan, always made her beauty
rather startling. This morning she had plaited her hair in two long, heavy
braids that hung to the bottom of her saddle skirts on either side. Oliver's
gaze at her was one of frank admiration. "How do you do it?" he laughed. "Do
what?" "Make yourself so spectacular and--er--outstanding, without leaving any
traces of art?" "Am I spectacular?" "Rather. Different, anyway--to use a badly
overworked expression. But what puzzles me is what makes you look like that. You
seem perfectly normal, and nothing could be plainer than the clothes you wear.
You're not beautiful, and you're too big both physically and mentally to be
pretty. But I'll bet my hat you're the most popular young woman in this
section!" She regarded him soberly. "Are you through?" she asked. "I've
exhausted my stock of descriptive words, anyway," he told her. "Then we'd better
be riding," she said. He swung Poche to the side of White Ann, and they moved
off along the road, knee and knee. "You're not offended?" he asked. She threw
back her head and laughed till Oliver thought of meadow larks, and robins
calling before a shower. "Offended! You must think me some sort of freak. Who
ever heard of a woman being offended when a man admires her? I like it
immensely, Mr. Oliver Drew. And if you can beat that for square shooting,
there's no truth in me. But if you'll analyse my 'difference' you'll find it's
only because I'm big and strong and healthy, and try always to shoot straight
from the shoulder and look folks straight in the eye. That's all. Let's let 'em
out!" They broke into a smart gallop, and continued it up and down pine-toothed
hills till they clattered into Halfmoon Flat. Curious eyes met them, old men
stopped in their tracks and leaned on their canes to watch, and folks came to
windows and doors as they loped through the village. "'Whispering tongues can
poison truth,'" Jessamy quoted as they turned a corner and cantered up a hill
toward a grove of pines on the outskirts of the town. "It seems odd that Adam
Selden has not mentioned you to me. Surely some one has seen us together who
would tell some one else who would tell Old Man Selden all about it. But not a
cheep from him as yet." "Have you any bosom friends in the Clinker Creek
district?" he asked, not altogether irrelevantly. "No, none at all. But I'm
friends with everybody, though I have nothing in common with any one. I don't
consider myself superior to the natives here about, but, just the same, they
don't interest me. I'm speaking of the women. I like most of the men. I guess
I'm what they call a man's woman. I can't sit and talk about clothes and dances,
and gossip, and what one did on one's vacation last summer. It all bores me
stiff, so I don't pretend it doesn't. Men, now--they can talk about horses and
saddles and cows and cutting wood and prizefights and poker games and
election--"

"And women and Fords," he interrupted. She laughed and led the way into a little
trail that snaked on up the hill between lilacs and buckeye trees to a little
cabin half-hidden in the foliage. They dismounted at the door and loosed their
horses. Jessamy tapped vigorously on the panels. Again and again--and then there
was heard a shuffling, unsteady step inside, and a cane thumped hollowly.
Presently the door opened, and Old Dad Sloan bleared out at them from behind his
flaring, mattress-stuffing hair and whiskers. "How do you do, Mr. Sloan!" cried
Jessamy almost at the top of her voice. A veined hand shook its way to form a
cup behind the ancient's ear. "Hey?" he squealed. Jessamy filled her sturdy
lungs with air and tried again. "I say--How do you do!" The effort left her neck
red but for a blue outstanding artery. "Oh!" exclaimed Dad Sloan, with a look of
relief. "Why, howdy?" Jessamy ascended a step to the door, took him by both
shoulders, and placed her satin lips close to the ear that he inclined her way.
"We've come to make you a call," she announced. "I want you to meet a friend of
mine; and we want to ask you some questions." The grey head nodded slowly up and
down, more to indicate that its owner heard and understood than to signify
acquiescence. But he tottered back and held the door wide open; and Jessamy and
Oliver went into the cabin. Dad Sloan managed to live all alone in this
sequestered little nook by reason of the county's generosity. He was old and
feeble, and at times irritatingly childish and petulant. Jessamy Selden often
brought him cakes, fried chicken, and the like; and, provided he was in the
right mood, he would be more likely to be confidential with her than with
anybody else in the country. But the girl's task was difficult. The old man
shook hands listlessly with Oliver at her bidding, but seemed entirely to have
forgotten their previous meeting. They sat in the uncomfortable straight-backed,
thong-bottom chairs while Jessamy shrieked the conversation into the desired
channel. The old eyes gathered a more intelligent look as she spoke of the lost
mine of Bolivio. Pieced together, the fragments that fell from the bearded lips
of Old Dad Sloan made some such narrative as follows:

Bolivio had been a Portuguese or a Spaniard, or some "black furriner," who had
been in the country in the memorable days of '49 and afterward. His knowledge of
some tongue based on the Latin had made it easy for him to communicate with the
Pauba Indians that inhabited the country, as some of them had learned Spanish
from the Franciscan Fathers down at the coast. Bolivio mingled with the tribe,
and finally became a squawman. One day he appeared at the Clinker Creek bar and
exhibited a beautiful stone. A gold miner who was present had once followed
mining in South Africa, and knew something of diamonds. He examined Bolivio's
stone, and gave it such simple tests as were at his command, then advised the
owner to send it to New York to find out if it was possessed of value. It
required months in those days to communicate with the Atlantic seaboard.
Bolivio's stone was started on its long journey around the Horn. He hinted that
there were more of the stones where he had found this one, and created the
impression that his Indian brethren had showed them to him. More they could not
get out of him. Nor did anybody try very hard to learn his secret, for no one
imagined the find of much intrinsic value. Bolivio was a saddler, and was
skilled in the art of the silversmith. Gold dust was plentiful in the country in
that day, and the foreigner found ready buyers for his masterpieces in leather
and precious metals. The finest equestrian outfit that he made was finally
acquired from the Indians by Dan Smeed, a miner who afterward turned highwayman,
married an Indian girl, became an outlaw, and finally disappeared altogether. In
the _conchas_ with which the plaited bridle was adorned Bolivio had set two
large stones from his secret store, which he himself had crudely polished. One
day, a month or more before word came from New York regarding the stone, Bolivio
was found dead in the forest. A knife had been plunged into his heart. The
secret of the brilliant stones had died with him. Then came the answer. The
stone was said to be spodumene, of a very high class, and had a a lilac tint
theretofore unknown. It was the finest of its kind ever to have been reported as
found in the United States. The finder was offered a thousand dollars for the
sample sent; one hundred dollars a pound was offered for all stones that would
grade up to the sample. But Bolivio was dead, and no one knew from whence the
stone had come. Efforts were made, of course, to find the source of this wealth.
The Indians were tried time and again, but not one word would they speak
regarding the matter. The new quest was finally dropped; for those were the days
of gold, gold, gold, and so frenzied were men and women to find it that other
precious minerals were cast aside as worthless. None had time to seek for stones
worth a hundred dollars a pound, with gold worth more than twice as much. So the
lost mine of Bolivio became only a memory. Years later this same stone was
discovered six hundred miles farther south. It is now on the market as kunzite,
and a cut stone of one karat in weight sells for fifty dollars and more. The San
Diego County discovery was supposed to mark the introduction of the stone in the
United States, for the lost mine of Bolivio was all but forgotten. Old Dad Sloan
thumped out at Jessamy's request and once again critically examined Oliver's
saddle and bridle and the brilliants in the _conchas_. "It's the same fine
outfit Bolivio made, and that afterwards belonged to Dan Smeed, outlaw,
highwayman, and squawman," he pronounced. "They never was another outfit like it
in this country." "Tell us more about Dan Smeed!" screamed the girl. The
patriarch shook his head. "Bad egg; bad egg!" he said sonorously. "He married a
squaw, and that's how come it he got the grandest saddle and bridle Bolivio ever
made. Bolivio's squaw kep' it after Bolivio was knifed. And by and by along come
this Dan Smeed and his partner to this country. And when Dan Smeed married into
the tribe he got the saddle and bridle and martingales somehow. That was later--
years later. Bolivio's been dead over seventy year." "Have you ever heard the
name Peter Drew?" Oliver asked him. But the old eyes remained blank, and the
grey head shook slowly from side to side. "I recollect clear as day what
happened sixty to seventy year ago, but I can't recollect what I did last week
or where I went," Dad Sloan said pathetically. "If I'd ever heard o' Peter Drew
in the days o' forty-nine to seventy, I'd recollect it." "You mentioned Dan
Smeed's partner," prompted Jessamy. "Can you recall his name?" "Yes, Dan Smeed
had a partner," mused Dad Sloan. "Bad egg, Dan Smeed. Squawman, highwayman,
outlaw. Disappeared with his fine saddle and bridle and martingales and the
stones from the lost mine o' Bolivio." "But his partner's name?" the girl
persisted. The old mind seemed to be wandering once more. "Bad eggs--both of
'em. Bad eggs," was the only answer she could get. "Well, we're progressing
slowly," Jessamy observed as they rode away. "Our next step must be to visit the
Indians. I know a number of them. Filipe Maquaquish, for instance, and Chupurosa
are as old or older than Old Dad Sloan. Chupurosa's face is a pattern in
crinkled leather. When we go to see Aunt Nancy Fleet we'll visit the Indian
village. And that will be--when?" "Tomorrow, if you say so," Oliver replied. "I
meant to irrigate my garden tomorrow, but it can wait a day." "By the way," she
asked, "have you written that letter to Mr. Selden, telling him what we found
out down at the county seat?" "I have it in my pocket," he told her. "Give it to
me," she ordered. "I'll hand it in at the post office, get them to stamp the
postmark on it, and take it home with me when I go." "Will you dare do that?
Won't the post-master scent a conspiracy against Old Man Selden?" "Let him
scent!" said Jessamy. "I'm dying to see Selden's face when he reads that
letter." They parted at the headwaters of Clinker Creek, with the understanding
that she would meet him in the county road next morning for the ride to her
aunt's and the Indian reservation. CHAPTER VIII

POISON OAK RANCH

The trail that meandered down Clinker Creek Canyon extended at right angles to
the one that led to the Selden ranch. The latter climbed a baldpate hill; then,
winding its narrow way through dense locked chaparral higher than horse and
rider, dipped down precipitously into the deep canyon of the American River.
Jessamy waved good-bye to her new friend at the parting of the ways and lifted
White Ann into her long lope to the summit of the denuded hill. For a little, as
they crossed the topmost part of it, the deep, rugged scar that marked the
course of the river was visible. Ragged and rocky and covered with trees and
chaparral, the canyonside slanted down dizzily for over fifteen hundred feet. At
the bottom the deep green river rushed pell-mell to the lower levels. A moment
and the view was lost to the girl, as White Ann entered the thick chaparral and
started the swift descent. At last they reached the bottom, forded the swirling
stream, and began clambering up a trail as steep as the first on the other side.
Soon the river was lost to view again, for once more the trail had been cut
through a seemingly impenetrable chaparral of buckthorn, manzanita and scrub
oak. Around and about tributary canyons they wound their way, and at last
reached the end of the steep climb. For a quarter of a mile now the trail
followed the backbone of a ridge, then entered a canyon that eventually spread
out into a pine-bordered plateau on the mountainside. Just ahead lay Poison Oak
Ranch. Beyond, the deep, dark forest extended in miles numbered by hundreds to
the snow-mantled peaks of the Sierra Nevada range. While it was possible to
reach Poison Oak Ranch from this side of the river, the journey on Shank's mare
would have taken on something of the nature of an exploring expedition into
unmapped lands. Occasionally hunters wandered to or past the ranch on this side;
but for the most part any one who fancied that he had business at Poison Oak
Ranch came over the narrow trail that connected the spot with outside
civilization. Few entertained such a fancy, however, for Poison Oak Ranch,
secluded, hidden from sight, tucked away in the Hills of Nowhere, and difficult
of access, was owned and controlled by a clannish family that had little in
common with the world. There was a large log house that Adam Selden's father had
built in the days of '49, in which the Old Man Selden of today had first opened
his eyes on life. There were several lesser cabins in the mountainside cup, two
of which were occupied by Hurlock Selden and Winthrop Selden and their families.
The remaining two boys, Moffat and Bolar, lived in the big house with Jessamy,
her mother, and the wicked Old Man of the Hills. There was an extensive garden,
watered by a generous spring that gushed picturesquely from under a gigantic
boulder set in the hillside. There were perhaps ten acres of pasture, and a
small deciduous orchard. Little more in the way of agricultural land. The
Seldens merely made this place their home and headquarters--their cattle ranged
the hills outside, and most of their activities toward a livelihood were carried
on away from home. Selden owned a thousand acres over in the Clinker Creek
Country and a winter range a trifle larger fifty miles below the foothills. He
moved his herds three times in a year--from the winter pastures to the Clinker
Creek Country for the spring grass, keeping them there till August, when they
were driven to government mountain ranges at an altitude of six thousand feet;
and from thence, in October, to winter range once more. The Clinker Creek range,
however, was comprised of several thousand acres beside the thousand owned by
Selden. This represented lands long since deserted by their owners as useless
for agricultural purposes, and upon which Selden kept up the taxes, or
appropriated without negotiations, as conditions demanded. Oliver Drew's forty
had been a part of this until Oliver's inopportune arrival. Jessamy rode into
the rail corral and unsaddled her mare. Then she hurried to the house to help
her mother, a tired looking, once comely woman of fifty-eight. Mrs. Selden had
been an Ivison--a sister of Old Tabor Ivison, who had homesteaded Oliver's forty
acres thirty years before. As a girl she had married Herman Lomax, a country
youth with ambitions for the city. He had done fairly well in the mercantile
business in San Francisco, and Jessamy, the only child, was born to them. The
girl had been raised to young womanhood and attended the State University. Then
her father had died, leaving his business in an involved condition; and in the
end the widow and her daughter found there was little left for them. They
returned to the scene of Mrs. Lomax's girlhood, where they tried without success
to farm the old home place, to which, in the interim, the widow had fallen heir.
Then to the surprise of every one--Jessamy most of all--Mrs. Lomax consented to
marry Old Adam Selden, the father of four strapping sons and "the meanest man in
the country." At the time Jessamy had not known this last, but she knew it now.
However, such an independent young woman as Jessamy would not consent to suffer
a great deal at the hands of a step-father. She stayed on with the family for
her mother's sake, but she had her own neat living room and bedroom and went her
own way entirely. It must end someday. Old Adam Selden, though hard and tough as
a time-battered oak, could not live for ever. Her mother would not divorce him.
So Jessamy stayed and waited, and rode over the hills alone, unafraid and
independent. She was helping her mother to get supper in the commodious kitchen,
with its black log walls and immense stone fireplace, which room served as
dining room and living room as well, when Adam Selden, Bolar, and Moffat rode in
from the trail and corraled their horses. Supper was ready as the three clanked
to the house in spurs and chaps, and washed noisily in basins under a gigantic
liveoak at the cabin door. Then Jessamy took Oliver Drew's letter from her bosom
and propped it against old Adam's coffee cup. Selden's bushy brows came down as
he scraped his chair to the table. Mail for any Selden was an unusual
occurrence. "What's this here?" Adam's thick fingers held the envelope before
his eyes, and the beetling grey brows strained lower. "Mail," indifferently
answered Jessamy, setting a pan of steaming biscuits, covered with a spotless
cloth, on the table. "Fer me?" "'Adam Selden, Esquire,'" she quoted. "'Esquire,'
eh? Who's she from?" "It's generally customary to open a letter and read who it
is from," said Jessamy lightly. "In this instance, however, you will find a
notation on the flap of the envelope that reads: 'From Oliver Drew, Halfmoon
Flat, California.'" "Huh!" Selden raised his shaggy head and bent a condemnatory
glance on the girl. "D'he give it to ye?" "It is postmarked Halfmoon Flat," said
Jessamy, taking her seat beside Bolar, who, indifferent to his father's
difficulties, had already consumed three fluffy biscuits spread with butter and
wild honey. "Ye got her out o' the office, then?" The cold blue eyes were
challenging. "Oh, certainly, certainly!" Jessamy chirruped impatiently. "One
might imagine you'd never received a letter before." Adam fingered it
thoughtfully. "Yes," he said deliberatingly at last, reverting to his customary
drawl, "I got letters before now. But I was just wonderin' if this Drew fella
give thisun to you to give to me." Jessamy's round left shoulder gave a little
shrug of indifference. "Coffee, Moffat?" she asked. "Sure Mike," said Moffat.
"Did he?" Selden's tones descended to the deep bass boom which marked certain
moods. "Oh, dear!" Jessamy complained good-naturedly. "What's the use? Can't you
see the postmark and the cancelled stamp, Mr. Selden?" Selden contemplated them.
"Yes, I see 'em," he admitted; "I see 'em. But I thought, s' long's ye was with
that young Drew fella today, he might 'a' saved his stamp and sent her to me by
you." "That being satisfactorily decided," chirped Jessamy, "let us now open the
missive and learn what Mr. Drew has to communicate." "Heaven's sake, Pap, open
it and shut up!" growled Moffat, his mouth full of potato. "I'll take a quirt to
you if ye tell me to shut up ag'in!" thundered Selden. Thereupon he tore the
envelope and leaned out from his chair so that the light from a window flooded
the single sheet which the envelope contained. He read silently, slowly, craggy
brows drawn down. His cold blue eyes widened, and the large nostrils of his
pitted Bourbon nose spread angrily. "Moffat, listen here!" he boomed at last.
"You, too, Bolar." "Yes, be sure to listen, Bolar," laughed Jessamy. "But if you
don't wish to, go down into the canyon of the American." "'Adam Selden,
Esquire,'" Selden boomed on, unheeding the girl's bantering. "'Poison Oak Ranch,
Halfmoon Flat, Californy:'

"'My dear Mr. Selden.' Get that, Moffat! 'My dear Mr. Selden!' Say, who's that
Ike think he's writin' to? His gal? Huh! 'My _dear_ Mr. Selden:'

"'I rode to the county seat on Wednesday, this week, and looked over the records
in the office of the recorder of deeds. I found that you are entirely mistaken
in the matter that you brought to my attention on Tuesday. The forty acres known
as the Old Ivison Place are recorded in my name, the date of the recording being
January fifth, this year. It appears that Nancy Fleet sold the place years ago
to my father, but that the transfer was not placed on record until the date I
have mentioned.' "'With kindest regards,'

"'Yours sincerely, Oliver Drew.'" Selden came to an ominous pause and glared
about the table. "Writ with a typewriter, all but his name," he announced
impressively. "And he's a liar by the clock!" Jessamy threw back her head in
that whole-souled laughter that made every one who heard her laugh. "He's
crazy," complacently mumbled Bolar, still at war on the biscuits. "Jess'my"--
Selden's eyes were fixed sternly on his step-daughter--"What're ye laughin' at?"
"At humanity's infinite variety," answered Jessamy. "Does that mean me?" "Me,
too, Pete!" she rippled. "Looky-here"--he leaned toward her--"there's some funny
business goin' on 'round here. Two times ye been seen ridin' with that new fella
down on the Old Ivison Place." "Two times is right," she slangily agreed. "And
ye rode with 'im to the county seat when he went to see the records. Just so!"
"Your informer is accurate," taunted the girl. "What for?" "What for?" She
levelled her disconcerting gaze at him. "Well, I like that, Mr. Selden! Because
I wanted to, if you must pry into my affairs." "Ye wanted to, eh? Ye _wanted_
to! Did ye see the records?" "I did." "Is this here letter a lie?" He spanked
the table with it. "It is not." He rose from his chair and bent over her. "D'ye
mean to tell me yer maw's sister don't own that prop'ty?" "Exactly. It belongs
to Mr. Oliver Drew, according to the recorder's office. May I suggest that I am
rather proud of my biscuits tonight, and that they're growing cold as lumps of
clay?" "It's a lie!" roared Selden. "Now, just a moment," said Jessamy coolly.
"Do I gather that you are calling me a liar, Mr. Selden? Because if you are,
I'll get a cattle whip and do my utmost to make you swallow it. I'll probably
get the worst of it, but--"

"Shut up!" bawled Selden. "Ye know what I mean, right enough! The whole dam'
thing's a lie!" "Tell it to the county recorder, then," Jessamy advised
serenely. "Have another piece of steak, Mother." "I'll ride right up to Nancy
Fleet's tomorrow. I'll get to the bottom o' this business. And you keep yer
young nose outa my affairs, Jess'my!" "Oh, I'll do that--gladly. That's easy."
"Just so! Then keep her outa this fella Drew's, too!" "That's another matter
entirely," she told him. "And I may as well add right here, while we're on the
subject, that I wish you to keep your nose out of _my_ affairs. There, now--
we've ruined our digestions by quarrelling at meal-time. Bolar hasn't, though--
I'm glad somebody appreciates my biscuits." Bolar grinned, and his face grew
red. Bolar was deeply in love with his step-sister, four years his senior; but a
day in the saddle, with a sharp spring wind in one's face, will scarce permit
the tender passion to interfere with a lover's appetite. Old Adam enveloped
himself in his customary brooding silence. He was a holy terror when aroused,
and would then spout torrents of words; but ordinarily he was morosely quiet,
taciturn. He would not have hesitated to apply his quirt to his twenty-six-year-
old son Moffat, as he had threatened to do, had not that young man possessed the
wisdom born of experience to refrain from defying him. But with his step-
daughter it was different. For some inexplicable reason he "took more sass" from
her than from any other person living. Deep down in his scarred old heart,
perhaps, there was hidden a deferential respect and fatherly admiration for this
breezy, strong-minded girl with whom a strange fortune had placed him in daily
contact. "Please eat your supper, Mr. Selden," Jessamy at last sincerely
pleaded, when the old man's frowning abstraction had continued for minutes.
Dutifully, without a word, he scraped his chair closer to the table and fell to
noisily. But he did not join in the conversation, which now became general. It
was a custom in the House of Selden for each diner to leave the table when he
had finished eating--a custom antedating Jessamy's advent in the family, which
she never had been able to correct. Bolar had long since bolted the last morsel
of food that his tough young stomach would permit, and had hurried to a half-
completed rawhide lariat. Moffat soon followed him out. Then Jessamy's mother
arose and left the room. This left together at the table the deliberate eater,
Jessamy, and the old man, who had not yet caught up with the time he had given
to the letter. He too finished before the girl, having completed his supper in
the same untalkative mood. Now, however, he spoke to her as he pushed back his
chair and rose. "Jess'my," he said in a moderate tone, "I want to tell ye one
thing. Ye know that I shoot straight from the shoulder, or straight from the
hip, whichever's handiest--and I don't shoot to scare." He waited. Jessamy
nodded. "I'll have to admit that," she said. "I think it's the thing I like most
about you." He pondered over this, and again his brows came down above his
pitted nose. "I didn't know they was anything ye liked about me," he at length
said bluntly. "Oh, yes," she remarked, levelling that straightforward look of
hers at him. "I like your height and the breadth of your chest, and the way you
sit in your saddle when your horse is on the dead run--and the other thing I
mentioned before." Again he grew thoughtful. "Well, that's _somethin'_," he
finally chuckled. "Ye like my way o' sayin' what I think, then. Well, get this:
I'm the boss o' this country, from Red Mountain to the Gap. I been the boss of
her since my pap died and turned her over to me. So it's the boss o' the Poison
Oak Country that's talkin'. And he says this: That new fella Drew that's made
camp down on the Old Tabor Ivison Place can't make a livin' there, can't raise
nothin', don't belong there. And if by some funny business, that I'm gonta look
into right away, he's got a-holt o' that forty, he's got to hit the trail."
"Why, how ridiculous!" laughed the girl. "Where do you think you are, Mr.
Selden? In Russia--Germany? King Selden Second, Czar of all the Poison Oak
Provinces! Mr. Drew, owning that land in his own right, must hit the trail and
leave it for you simply because you say so!" "Ye heard what I said, Jess'my"--
and he clanked out of the room. CHAPTER IX

NANCY FLEET'S WINDFALL

Jessamy Selden stood before the cheap soft-wood dresser in her bedroom, in a
wing of the old log house, and completed the braiding of the two long, thick
strands of cold-black hair. Then in the cozy little sitting room, which adjoined
the bedroom and was hers alone, she slipped on her morocco-top riding boots and
buckled spur straps over her insteps. The sun had not yet climbed the wooded
ridges beyond Poison Oak Ranch. The night before the girl had prepared a cold
breakfast for herself; and with this wrapped in paper she left the sitting room
by its outside door and ran to the corral. The family was at breakfast in the
vast room. Hurlock's and Winthrop's families were likewise engaged in their
respective houses. So no one was about to disturb or even see Jessamy as she
hastily threw the saddle on White Ann, leaped into it, and rode away. When she
had left the clearing, and the noise of rapid hoofbeats would not be heard, she
lifted the mare into a gallop. At this reckless speed they swung into the trail
and plunged hazardously down the mountainside along the serpentine trail. They
forded the river, took the trail on the other side, and raced madly up it until
compassion for her labouring mount forced the rider to rein in. Now she ate her
breakfast of cold baked apple and cold fried mush in the saddle as the mare
clambered upward. At sunrise they topped the ridge and took up the lope again
toward the headwaters of Clinker Creek. Long before she reached it Jessamy saw a
bay horse and its rider at rest, with the early sunlight playing on the flashing
silver of the famous saddle and bridle of Oliver Drew. "Let's go!" she cried
merrily as White Ann, convinced that some devilment was afoot, cavorted and
humped her back and shied from side to side while she bore down swiftly on the
waiting pair. For answer Oliver Drew pressed his calves against Poche's ribs,
and the bay leaped to White Ann's side with a snort that showed he had caught
the spirit of the coming adventure, whatever it might prove to be. At a gallop
they swung into the county road, Poche producing a challenging metallic rattle
by rolling the wheel of his halfbreed bit with his tongue, straining at the
reins, and bidding the equally defiant white to do that of which "angels could
do no more." "Good morning!" cried Oliver. "What's the rush?" "Old Man Selden is
riding to Aunt Nancy's today," she shouted back. "Good morning!" "Oh! In that
case, if that white crowbait you're riding hadn't already come three miles, we'd
find out whether she can run. She's telling the world she can." Jessamy made a
face at him and, leaning forward, caressed the mare's smooth neck. White Ann
evidently considered this a sign of abetment, for she plunged and reared and
cast fiery looks of scorn at her pseudo rival. "There, there, honey!" soothed
the girl. "We could leave that old flea-bitten relic so far behind it would be
cruelty to animals to do it. Just wait till we're coming back, after we've
rested and have an even chance; for I really believe the man wants to be fair."
Oliver's eyes were filled with her as her strong, sinewy figure followed every
unexpected movement of the plunging mare as if a magnet held her in the saddle.
The dew of the morning was on her lips; the flush of it on her cheeks. Her long
black braids whipped about in the wind like streamers from the gown of a classic
dancer. The picture she made was the most engrossing one he had ever looked on.
They slowed to a walk after a mile of it. "Well," said Jessamy, "I delivered
your letter." "Yes? Go on. That's a good start." "It created quite a scene. Old
Adam simply won't--can't--believe that you own the Old Ivison Place. So that's
why he's fogging it up to Aunt Nancy's today. I think we'll be an hour ahead of
him, though, and can be at the reservation by the time he reaches the house."
"Is he angry?" "Ever try to convince a wasp that you have more right on earth
than he has?" Her white teeth gleamed against the background of red lips and
sunburned skin. "Well?" "He says that, whether you own the place or not, you'll
have to leave." "M'm-m! That's serious talk. In some places I've visited it
would be called fighting talk." "Number this place among them, Mr. Drew," she
said soberly, turning her dark, serious eyes upon him. "But I didn't come up
here to fight!" "Neither did the President of the United States take his seat in
Washington to fight," she pointed out, keeping that level glance fixed on his
face. "Oh, as to that," mused Oliver after a thoughtful pause, "I guess I _can_
fight. They didn't send me back from France as entirely useless. But it strikes
me as a very stupid proceeding. Look here, Miss Selden--how many acres of grass
does your step--er--Old Man Selden run cows on for the summer grazing?--how many
acres in the Clinker Creek Country, in short?" Jessamy pursed her lips. "Perhaps
four thousand," she decided after thought. "Uh-huh. And on my forty there's
about fifteen acres, all told, that represents grass land. The rest is timber
and chaparral. Now, fifteen acres added to four thousand makes four thousand
fifteen acres. The addition would take care of perhaps five additional animals
for the three months or more that his stock remains in that locality. Do you
mean to tell me that Adam Selden would attempt to run a man out of the country
for that?" She closed her eyes and nodded her head slowly up and down in a
childlike fashion that always amused him. It meant "Just that!" He gave a short
laugh of unbelief. "Listen," she cautioned: "Don't make the fatal mistake of
taking this matter too lightly, Mr. Drew." "But heavens!" he cried. "A man who
would attempt to dispossess another for such a slight gain as that would rob a
blind beggar of the pennies in his cup! I've had a short interview with Old Man
Selden. Corrupt he may be, but he struck me as an old sinner who would be
corrupt on a big scale. I couldn't think of the masterful old reprobate I talked
with as a piker." Jessamy locked a leg about her saddle horn. "You've got him
about right," she informed her companion. "One simply is obliged to think of him
as big in many ways." Oliver's leg now crooked itself toward her, and he
slouched down comfortably. "Say," he said, "I don't get you at all." "Don't get
me?" She was not looking at him now. "No, I don't. One moment you said he would
put the skids under me for the slight benefit from my fifteen acres of grass.
Next moment you maintain that he is not a piker." "Yes." Oliver rolled a
cigarette. Not until it was alight did he say:

"Well, you haven't explained yet." She was silent, her eyes on the glittering
snow of the far-off Sierras. For the first time since he had met her he found
her strangely at a loss for words. And had her direct gaze faltered? Were her
eyes evading his? And was the rich colour of her skin a trifle heightened, or
was it the glow from the sun, ever reddening as it climbed its ancient ladder in
the sky? She turned to him then--suddenly. There was in her eyes a look partly
of amusement, partly of chagrin, partly of shame. "I can't answer you," she
stated simply. "I blundered, that's all. Opened my mouth and put my foot in it."
"But can't you tell me how you did that even?" "I talk too much," was her
explanation. "Like poor old Henry Dodd, I went too far on dangerous ground."
Oliver tilted his Stetson over one eye and scratched the nape of his neck. "I
pass," he said. "That reminds me," was her quick return, "I sat in at a dandy
game of draw last night. There was--"

"Wh-_what_!" "And now I have both feet in my mouth," she cried. "And you'll have
to admit that comes under the heading, 'Some Stunt.' I thought I saw a chance to
brilliantly change the subject, but I see that I'm worse off than before. For
now you're not only mystified but terribly shocked." He gave this thirty seconds
of study. "I'll have to admit that you jolted me," he laughed, his face a little
redder. "I'm not accustomed to hearing young ladies say, 'I sat in at a dandy
little game of draw'--just like that. But I'm sure I went too far when I showed
surprise." "And what's your final opinion on the matter?" She was amused--Not
worried, not defiant. "Well, I--I don't just know. I've never given such a
matter a great deal of thought." "Do so now, please." Obediently he tried as
they rode along. "One thing certain," he said at last, "it's your own business."
"Oh, you haven't thought at all! Keep on." A minute later he asked: "Do you like
to play poker?" "Yes." "For--er--money?" "'For--er--money.' What d'ye suppose--
crochet needles?" Then he took up his studies once more. Finally he roused
himself, removed his leg from the horn, and straightened in the saddle. "Settled
at last!" she cried. "And the answer is...?" "The answer is, I don't give a
whoop if you do." "You approve, then?" "Of everything you do." "Well, I don't
approve of that," she told him. "I don't, and I do. But listen here: One of the
few quotations that I think I spout accurately is 'When in Rome do as the Romans
do.' I'm 'way off there in the hills. I'm a pretty lonely person, as I once
before informed you. Yet I'm a gregarious creature. We have no piano, few books
--not even a phonograph. Bolar Selden squeezes a North-Sea piano--in other words
an accordion. Of late years accordion playing has been elevated to a place among
the arts; but if you could hear Bolar you'd be convinced that he hasn't kept
pace with progress. He plays 'The Cowboy's Lament' and something about 'Says the
wee-do to the law-yer, O spare my only che-ild!' Ugh! He gives me the jim-jams.
"So the one and only indoor pastime of Seldenvilla is draw poker. Now, if you
were in my place, would you be a piker and a spoilsport and a pink little prude,
or would you be human and take out a stack?" "I understand," he told her. "I
think I'd take out a stack." "And besides," she added mischievously, "I won nine
dollars and thirty cents last night." "That makes it right and proper," he
chuckled. "But we've wandered far afield. Why did you say that Selden would try
to run me off my toy ranch in one breath, and that he is wicked only in a big
way in the next?" "I'd prefer to quarrel over poker playing," she said. "Please,
I blundered--and I can't answer that question. But maybe you'll learn the answer
to it today. We'll see. Be patient." "But I'll not learn from you direct." "I'm
afraid not." "I think I understand--partly," he said after another intermission.
"It must be that there's another--a bigger--reason why he wants me out of
Clinker Creek Canyon." "You've guessed it. I may as well own up to that much.
But I can't tell you more--now. Don't ask me to." After this there was nothing
for the man to do but to keep silent on the subject. So they talked of other
things till their horses jogged into Calamity Gap. Here was a town as
picturesque as Halfmoon Flat, and wrapped in the same traditions. Jessamy's Aunt
Nancy Fleet lived in a little shake-covered cottage on the hillside, overlooking
the drowsy hamlet and the railroad tracks. It appeared that all of the Ivison
girls had been unfortunate in marrying short-lived men. Nancy Fleet was a widow,
and two other sisters besides Jessamy's mother had likewise lost husbands. Nancy
Fleet was a still comely woman of sixty, with snow-white hair and Jessamy's
black eyes. She greeted her niece joyously, and soon the three were seated in
her stuffy little parlour. Oliver opened up the topic that had brought him
there. Mrs. Fleet, after stating that she did so because he was Oliver Drew,
readily made answer to his questions. Yes, she had sold the Old Ivison Place to
a Mr. Peter Drew something like fifteen years before. She had never met him till
he called on her, and no one else at Calamity Gap had known anything about him.
He told that he had made inquiry concerning her, and that this had resulted in
his becoming satisfied that she was a woman who would keep her word and might be
trusted implicitly. This being so, he told her that he would relieve her of the
Old Ivison Place, if she would agree to keep silent regarding the transfer until
he or his son had assured her that secrecy was no longer necessary. For her
consideration of his wishes in this connection he told her that he was willing
to pay a good price for the land. As there seemed to be no rascality coupled
with the request, she gave consent. For years she had been trying to dispose of
the property for five hundred dollars. Now Peter Drew fairly took her breath
away by offering twenty-five hundred. He could well afford to pay this amount,
he claimed, and was willing to do so to gain her co-operation in the matter of
secrecy. She had accepted. The transfer of the property was made under the seal
of a notary public at the county seat, and the money was promptly paid. Then
Peter Drew had gone away with his deed, and for fifteen years she had made the
inhabitants of the country think that she still owned the Old Ivison Place
simply by saying nothing to the contrary. She had been told to accept any
rentals that she might be able to derive from it--to use it as her own. For
several years Peter Drew had regularly forwarded her a bank draft to cover the
taxes. Then Adam Selden had offered to pay the taxes for the use of the land,
and she had written Peter Drew to that effect and told him to send no more tax
money until further notice. Since that date she had heard no more from the
mysterious purchaser of the land. She was surprised to learn that the transfer
had at last been recorded, but could throw no light whatever on the proceedings.
She took a motherly interest in Oliver because of his father, whose generosity
had greatly benefited her. In fact, she said, she couldn't for the life of her
tell how she'd got along without that money. "And whatever shall I say, dearie,
when Adam Selden comes to me today?" she asked her niece. "I'm afraid of the man
--just afraid of him." "Pooh!" Jessamy deprecated. "He's only a man. Oliver
Drew's coming, and the fact that the transfer has at last been placed on record
leaves you free to tell all you know. So just tell Old Adam what you've told Mr.
Drew, and say you know nothing more about it. But whatever else you say, don't
cheep that we've been here, Auntie." "Well, I hope and trust he'll believe me,"
she sighed as she showed her callers out. "Now," said Jessamy, as they
remounted, "we'll ride away and be at the reservation by the time Old Adam
arrives here. What do you think of your mystery by now, Mr. Drew?" "It grows
deeper and deeper," Oliver mused. CHAPTER X

JESSAMY'S HUMMINGBIRD

A steep, tall mountain, heavily wooded, reared itself above the Indian
reservation. A creek tumbled over the boulders in the mountainside and raced
through the village of huts; and the combined millions of all the irrigation and
power companies in the West could not have bought a drop of its water until
Uncle Sam's charges had finished with it and set it free again. It was a
picturesque spot. Huge liveoaks, centuries old, sprawled over the cabins. Tiny
gardens dotted the sunny land. Horses and dogs were anything but scarce, and up
the mountainside goats and burros browsed off the chaparral. Wrinkled old squaws
washed clothes at the creekside, or pounded last season's acorns into _bellota_
--the native dish--in mortars hollowed in solid stone. Some made earthen _ollas_
of red clay; some weaved baskets. Over all hung that weird, indescribable odour
which only Indians or their much-handled belongings can produce. "This is
peace," smiled Oliver to Jessamy, as their horses leaped the stream side by side
and cantered toward the cluster of dark, squat huts. "What do they call this
reservation?" "It is named after an age-old dweller in our midst whom, since you
are a Westerner, you must have often met." "Who is that?" "Mr. Rattlesnake."
"Oh, certainly. I've met him on many occasions--mostly to his sorrow, I fancy.
Rattlesnake Reservation, eh?" "Well, that would be it in English. But in the
Pauba tongue Mr. Rattlesnake becomes Showut Poche-daka." "What's that!" Oliver
turned quickly in his saddle to find her dark wide eyes fixed on him intently.
"Say that again, please." "Showut Poche-daka," she repeated slowly. "M'm-m!
Strikes me as something of a coincidence--a part of that name." "Showut is one
word," she said, still watching him. "Poche and daka are two words hyphenated."
"And how do the English-speaking people spell the second word, Poche?" he asked.
"P-o-c-h-e," she spelled distinctly. "Long o, accent on the first syllable."
Oliver reined in. "Stop a second," he ordered crisply. "Why, that's the way my
horse's name is spelled. Say, that's funny!" "Is your trail growing plainer?" He
looked at her earnestly. "Look here," he said bluntly. "I distinctly remember
telling you the other day that my horse's name is Poche. Didn't you connect it
with the name of the reservation at the time?" "I did." He looked at her in
silence. "You did, eh?" he remarked finally. "I don't even know what my horse's
name means. Dad bought him while I was away at college. I understood the horse
was named that when Dad got hold of him, and that he merely hadn't changed it.
Now, I won't say that Dad told me as much outright, but I gathered that
impression somehow. I knew it was an Indian name, but had no idea of the
meaning." "Literally Poche means bob-tailed--short-tailed. That's why it occurs
in the title of our friend Mr. Rattlesnake. While your Poche-horse is not bob-
tailed, his tail is rather heavy and short, you'll admit. Has nothing of the
length and graceful sweep of White Ann's tail, if you'll pardon me." "You can't
lead me into joshing just now, young lady. Answer this: Why didn't you tell me,
when I told you my _caballo's_ name, that you knew what it meant? Most everybody
asks me what it means when I tell 'em his name; but you did not even show
surprise over the oddity of it--and I wondered. And before, when you spoke of
this tribe of Indians, you called them the Paubas." "Certainly I showed no
surprise, for I am familiar with the word poche and have just proved that I know
its meaning. And I'm not very clever at simulating an emotion that I don't feel.
I didn't tell you, moreover, because I wanted you to find out for yourself. I
thought you'd do so here. Yes--and I deliberately called these people the
Paubas. They _are_ Paubas--a branch of the Pauba tribe." "I thought you were to
help me," he grumbled. "You're adding to the mystery, it seems to me." "Not at
all. I'm showing you the trail. You must follow it yourself. Knowing the
country, I see bits here and there that tell me where to go to help you out.
Poche's name is one of them. Keep your eyes and ears open while I'm steering you
around." "All right," he agreed after a pause. "Lead on!" "Then we'll make a
call on Chupurosa Hatchinguish," she proposed. "Chupurosa means hummingbird, as
you doubtless know, since it is Spanish. And if my Chupurosa isn't a bird and
also a hummer, I never hope to see one." Oliver's riding outfit created a
sensation as the two entered the village. Faces appeared in doorways. Squat,
dark men, their black-felt hats invariably two sizes too large, came from
nowhere, it seemed, to gaze silently. Dogs barked. Women ceased their simple
activities and chattered noisily to one another. Jessamy reined in before a
black low door presently, and left the saddle. Oliver followed her. Through a
profusion of morning-glories the girl led the way to the door and knocked. From
within came a guttural response, and, with a smile at her companion, she passed
through the entrance. It was so dark within that for a little Oliver, coming
from the bright sunlight, could see almost nothing. Then the light filtering in
through the vines that covered the hut grew brighter. The floor was of earth,
beaten brick-hard by the padding of tough bare feet. In the centre was a
fireplace--little more than a circle of blackened stones--from which the smoke
was sucked out through a hole in the roof, presumably after it had considerately
asphyxiated the occupants of the dwelling. Red earthenware and beautifully woven
baskets represented the household utensils. There were a few old splint-bottom
chairs, a pack-saddle hanging on the wall, a bed of green willow boughs in one
corner. These simple items he noticed later, and one by one. For the time being
his interested attention was demanded by the figure that sat humped over the
fire, smoking a black clay pipe. Chupurosa Hatchinguish, headman of the Showut
Poche-dakas and a prominent figure in the fiestas and yearly councils of the
Pauba tribes, was a treasure for anthropologists. Years beyond the ken of most
human beings had wrought their fabric in his face. It was cross-hatched,
tattooed, pitted, knurled, and wrinkled till one was reminded of the surface of
some strange, intricately veined leaf killed and mummified by the frost. From
this crunched-leather frame two little jet-black eyes blazed out with the
unquenched fires of youth and all the wisdom in the world. A black felt hat, set
straight on his iron-grey hair and almost touching ears and eyebrows, faded-blue
overalls, and a dingy flannel shirt completed his garb, as he wore nothing on
his feet. "Hello, my Hummingbird!" Jessamy cried merrily in the Spanish tongue.
Chupurosa seemed not to be the stoic, "How-Ugh!" sort of Indian with which
fiction has made the world familiar. All the tragedy and unsolvable mystery of
his race was written in his face, but he could smile and laugh and talk, and
seemed to enjoy life hugely. His leathery face now parted in a grin, and, though
he did not rise, he extended a rawhide hand and made his callers welcome. Then
he waved them to seats. Much as any other human being would do, he politely
inquired after the girl's health and that of her family. Asked as to his own, he
shook his head and made a rheumatic grimace. "I've brought a friend to see you,
Chupurosa," said Jessamy at last, as, for some reason or other, she had not yet
exactly introduced Oliver. Chupurosa looked at the man inquiringly and waited.
"This is Oliver Drew," said the girl in what Oliver thought were unnatural,
rather tense tones. He saw Jessamy's lips part slightly after his name, and that
she was watching the old man intently. Chupurosa nodded in an exaggerated way,
and extended a hand, though the two had already gone through the handshake
formality. Oliver arose and did his part again, then stood a bit awkwardly
before their host. He heard a half-sigh escape the girl. "Senor Drew has not
been in our country long," she informed the old man. "He comes from the southern
part of the state--from San Bernardino County." Again the exaggerated nodding on
the part of Chupurosa. Then there was a pause, which the girl at length broke--

"Did you catch the name, Chupurosa? _Oliver Drew_." Chupurosa politely but
haltingly repeated it, and grinned accommodatingly. Jessamy tried again. "Do you
know a piece of land down in Clinker Creek Canyon that is called the Old Ivison
Place, Chupurosa?" His nod this time was thoughtful. "Senor Drew now owns that,
and lives there," she added. Both Jessamy and Oliver were watching him keenly.
It seemed to Oliver that there was the faintest suggestion of dilation of the
eye-pupils as this last bit of information was imparted. Still, it may have
meant nothing. The Indian crumbled natural-leaf with heel of hand and palm, and
refilled his terrible pipe. "Any friend of yours is welcome to this country and
to my hospitality," he said. "Senor Drew rode all the way up here horseback,"
the girl pushed on. "You like good horses, Chupurosa. Senor Drew has a fine one.
His name is Poche." For the fraction of a second the match that Oliver had
handed Chupurosa stood stationary on its trip to the tobacco in his pipe.
Chupurosa nodded in his slow way again, and the match completed its mission and
fell between the blackened stones. "And you like saddles and bridles, too, I
know. You should see Senor Drew's equipment, Chupurosa." Several thoughtful
puffs. Then--

"Is it here, Senorita?" "Yes," said the girl breathlessly. "Will you go out and
look at it?" This time the headman puffed for nearly a minute; then suddenly he
rose with surprising briskness. "I will look at this horse called Poche," he
announced, and stalked out ahead of them. A number of Indians, old and young,
had gathered about the horses outside the little gate. They were silent but for
a low, seemingly guarded word to one another now and then. Every black eye there
was fixed on the gorgeous saddle and bridle of Poche in awe and admiration. Then
came Chupurosa, tall, dignified as the distant mountain peaks, and they backed
off instantly. At his heels were Oliver and the girl, whose cheeks now glowed
like sunset clouds and whose eyes spoke volumes. Thrice in absolute silence the
headman walked round the horse. Completing the third trip, he stepped to Poche's
head and stood attentively looking at the left-hand _concha_ with its glistening
stone. Then Chupurosa lifted his hands, slipped the chased-silver keeper that
held the throatlatch in place, and let the throatlatch drop. Both hands grasped
the cheekstrap near the brow-band, and turned this part of the bridle inside
out. Oliver felt a slight trembling, it was all so weird, so portentous. He
almost knew that the jet eyes were searching for the "B" chiselled into the
silver on the inside of the _concha_, knew positively by the quick dilation of
the pupils when they found it. At once the old man released the bridle and
readjusted the throatlatch. He turned to them then, and silently motioned toward
the hut. Jessamy cast a triumphant glance at Oliver as they followed him inside.
To Oliver's surprise he closed the door after them. Then, though it was now so
dark inside that Oliver could scarce see at all, Chupurosa stood directly before
him and looked him up and down. He spoke now in the melodious Spanish. "Senor,"
he asked, "is there in the middle of your body, on the left side, the scar of a
wound like a man's eye?" Oliver caught his breath. "Yes," he replied. "I brought
it back from France. A bayonet wound." Up and down went the iron-grey head of
the sage. "I have never seen the weapon nor the sort of wound it makes," he
informed Oliver gravely. "Take off your shirt." "Oh, Chupu-_ro_-sa!" screamed
Jessamy as she threw open the door and slammed it after her. CHAPTER XI

CONCERNING SPRINGS AND SHOWUT POCHE-DAKA

It was evident to Oliver Drew that Clinker Creek was lowering fast, as Damon
Tamroy had predicted that it would do. He feared that it would go entirely dry
just when certain vegetables would need it most. Again, also following Tamroy's
prophecy, the flow from his spring proved insufficient to keep all of his
plantings alive, even though he had impounded the surplus in a small clay-lined
reservoir. He stood with hands on hips today, frowning at the tinkling stream of
water running from the rusty length of pipe into the reservoir. "There's just
one thing to do," he remarked to it, "and that's to see if I can't increase your
putter-putter. I want to write an article on making the most of a flow of spring
water, anyway; and I guess I'll use you for a foundation." Whereupon he secured
pick and shovel and sledge and set about removing the box he had so carefully
set in the ground to hold his domestic water. When the box was out he enlarged
the hole, and, when the water had cleared, studied the flow. It seeped out from
a fissure in the bedrock--or what he supposed was the bedrock--and it seemed a
difficult matter to "get at it." However, he began digging above the point of
egress in the resistant blue clay, and late that afternoon was down to bedrock
again. And now when he had washed off the rock he discovered a strange thing.
This was that the supposed bedrock was not bedrock at all, but a wall of large
stones built by the hand of man. Through a crevice in this wall the water
seeped, and when he had gouged out the puttylike blue clay the flow increased
fivefold. He sat down and puzzled over it, expecting the flow to return to
normal after some tiny unseen reservoir had been drained of its surplus. But it
did not lessen, and had not lessened when night came. At midnight, thinking
about it in bed and unable to sleep, he arose, lighted a lantern, and went down
to the spring. The water was flowing just the same as when he had left it. He
was not surprised to find the work of human hands in and about his spring, but
this wall of stones was highly irregular. It appeared that, instead of having
been built to conserve the water, it was designed to dam up the flow entirely.
The old flow was merely seepage through the wall. He was at it again early next
morning, and soon had torn down the wall entirely and thrown out the stones. At
least five times as much water was running still. He recalled that Damon Tamroy
had said the spring had given more water in Tabor Ivison's day than now. There
was but one answer to the puzzle. For some strange reason somebody since Tabor
Ivison's day had seen fit to try to stop the flow from the spring altogether.
But who would go to such pains to do this, and hide the results of his work, as
these had been hidden? And, above all, why? It is useless to deny that Oliver
Drew at once thought of the Poison Oakers. But what excuse could they produce
for such an act? Surely, with the creek dry and the American River several miles
away, they would encourage the flow of water everywhere in the Clinker Creek
Country for their cattle to drink. It was beyond him then and he gave it up. He
laid more pipe and covered it all to the land level again, and viewed with
satisfaction the increased supply of water for the dry summer months to come.
And it was not until a week later that Jessamy Selden unconsciously gave him an
answer to the question. He was scrambling up the hill to the west of the cabin
that day to another bee tree that he had discovered, when he heard her shrill
shouting down below. He turned and saw her and the white mare before the cabin,
and the girl was looking about for him. He returned her shout, and stood on a
blackened stump in the chaparral, waving his hat above the foliage. "I get you!"
she shrilled at last. "Stay there! I'm coming up!" Fifteen minutes later,
panting, now on hands and knees, now crawling flat, she drew near to him. A bird
can go through California "locked" chaparral if it will be content to hop from
twig to twig, but the ponderous human animal must emulate Nebuchadnezzar if he
or she would penetrate its mysteries. "What a delightful route you chose for
your morning crawl," she puffed, as at last she lay gasping at the foot of the
stump on which he sat and laughed at her. Oliver lighted a cigarette and inhaled
indolently as he watched her lying there with heaving breast, her arms thrown
wide. She did everything as naturally as does a child. She wore fringed leather
chaps today, and remarked, when she sat up and dusted the trash from her hair,
that she was glad she had done so since he had made her come crawling to his
feet. "And that reminds me of something that I've decided to ask you," she
added. "Has it occurred to you that I am throwing myself at you?" She looked
straight into his face as she put the naive question to him. "Why do you ask
that?" he countered, eyes on the tip of his cigarette. "I'll tell you why when
you've answered." "Then of course not." "I suppose I _am_ a bit crude," she
mused. "At least it must look that way to the natives here-about. I was fairly
confident, though, that you wouldn't think me unmaidenly. I sought you out
deliberately. I was lonely and wanted a friend. I had heard that you were a
University man. You told Mr. Tamroy, you know. It's perfectly proper
deliberately to try and make a friend of a person, isn't it?--if you think both
of you may be benefited. And does it make a great deal of difference if the
subject chances to be of the other sex?" "I'm more than satisfied, so far as I
come in on the deal," Oliver assured her. "I thank you, sir. And now I've been
accused to my face of throwing myself at you--which expression means a lot and
which you doubtless fully understand." "Who is your accuser?" "The author of
'Jessamy, My Sweetheart.'" "Digger Foss, eh?" She closed both eyes tightly and
bobbed her head up and down several times, then opened her eyes. "He's a free
man again--tried and acquitted." "No!" "Didn't I tell you how it would be?" He
puffed his cigarette meditatively. "Doesn't it strike you as strange that you
and I were not subpoenaed as witnesses?" "I've been expecting that from you. No,
sir--it doesn't. Digger's counsel didn't want you and me as witnesses." "But the
prosecuting attorney." "_He_ didn't want us either." "Then there's corruption."
"If I could think of a worse word than corruption I'd correct you, so I'll let
that stand. Digger Foss is Old Man Selden's right hand; and Old Man Selden is
Pythias to the prosecuting attorney of this man's county." Oliver's eyes
widened. "Elmer Standard is the gentleman in question. What connection there can
be between him and Adam Selden is too many for me; but Selden goes to see him
whenever he rides to the county seat. Only the right witnesses were allowed to
take the stand, you may be confident. I knew the halfbreed's acquittal was a
foregone conclusion before the smoke from his gat had cleared." Both were silent
for a time, then she said: "Elmer Standard runs things down at the county seat.
I've heard that he allows open gambling, and that he personally finances three
saloons and several gaming places." "But there are no saloons now." "Indeed!"
she said with mock innocence. "I didn't know. I never have frequented them, so
you'll overlook my ignorance. Anyway, Digger Foss is as free as the day he was
born; and Henry Dodd, the man he murdered, lies in the little cemetery in the
pines near Halfmoon Flat. But there's another piece of news: Adam Selden has--"

"Pardon my interrupting you," he put in, "but you haven't finished with Digger
Foss." "Oh, that! Well, I met him on the trail between Clinker Creek and the
American yesterday. He accused me of being untrue to him while he was in jail."
"Yes?" "I admitted my guilt. Never having had the slightest inclination to be
true to him, I told him, it naturally followed that I was untrue to him--and
wasn't it a glorious day? How on earth the boy ever got the idea that he has the
right to consider me in the light that he does is beyond me. I don't scold him,
and I don't send him packing--nor do I give him the least encouragement. I
simply treat him civilly when he approaches me on a commonplace matter, and
ignore him when he tries to get funny. And he's probably so dense that all this
encourages him. How can he be so stupid! I haven't been superior enough with him
--but I hate to be superior, even to a halfbreed. And he's quarter Chinaman.
Heavens, what am I coming to!" "How did the meeting end?" queried Oliver. "Well,
we both went a little further this time than ever before. He attempted to kiss
me, and I attempted to cut his face open with my quirt. Both of us missed by
about six inches, I'm thankful to say. And the grand climax took the form of a
dire threat against you. By the way, I've never seen you pack a gun, Mr. Drew."
He shrugged. "I used to down on the cow ranch in San Bernardino County, but I
think I grew up over in France." "You have one, of course." "Yes--a 'forty-
five." "Can you handle a gun fairly well?" "I know which end to look into to see
if it's loaded." "Can you spin a dollar in air with your left hand, draw, and
hit it before it strikes the ground?" "Aw, let's be sensible!" he cried. "I'm
after another colony of bees. Come on up and look at 'em." "Sit still," she
ordered. "Can you do what I asked about?" "I don't know--I've never tried."
"Digger Foss can," she claimed. "Well, that's shooting." "It is. I'd strap that
gun on if I were you and practice up a bit." "Cartridges are too high-priced,"
he laughed. "What's the rest of the news?" "The store up at Cliffbert, about
fourteen miles from here and off the railroad, was broken into three days ago
and robbed of cutlery, revolvers, and other things to the tune of several
hundred dollars." "M'm-m! Do they have any idea who did it?" "Oh, yes. The
Poison Oakers." "They know it?" "Of course--everybody knows it. But it can't be
proved. It's nothing new." "I didn't know the gang ever went to such a limit."
"Humph!" she sniffed significantly. "And the next piece of news is that Sulphur
Spring has gone dry for the first time in many years. And here it's only May!"
"Where is Sulphur Spring?" "About a mile below your south line, in this canyon.
I heard Old Man Selden complaining about it last night, and thought I'd ride
around that way this morning. It's as he said--entirely dry, so far as new water
running into the basin is concerned." "Well," said Oliver, "my piece of news is
just the opposite of that. My spring is running a stream five times as large as
heretofore--"

She straightened. "What caused that?" she demanded quickly. He explained in
detail. "So!" she murmured. "So! I understand. Listen: I have heard the menfolks
at the ranch say that all these canyon springs are connected. That is, they all
are outbreaks from one large vein that follows the canyon. If you shut off one,
then, you may increase the flow of the next one below it. And if you open one up
and increase its output, the next below it may go entirely dry. The flow from
yours has been cut off in time gone by to increase the flow of Sulphur Spring.
And now that you've taken away the obstruction, your spring gets all the water,
while Sulphur Spring gets none." "I believe you're right," asserted Oliver. "And
do you think it might have been the Poison Oakers who closed my spring to
increase the flow down there?" "Undoubtedly." "But why? They were running cows
on my land, too, before I came. Wouldn't it be handier to have a good flow of
water in both places?" "No doubt of that," she answered. "And I can't enlighten
you, I'm sorry to say. All I know is that Old Man Selden is hopping mad--angrier
than the situation seems to call for, as springs are by no means scarce in
Clinker Canyon." Jessamy's disclosures had ended now, so they scrambled on up
the hill toward the bee tree. The colony had settled in a dead hollow white-oak.
The tree had been broken off close to the ground by high winds after the colony
had taken up residence therein. The hole by which they made entrance to the
hollow trunk, however, was left uppermost after the fall, and apparently the
little zealots had not been seriously disturbed. Anyway, here they were still
winging their way to and from the prostrate tree, the sentries keeping watch at
the entrance to their increasing store of honey. Oliver had found the tree two
weeks before, purely by accident. At that time the hole at which the workers
entered had been unobstructed. Now, though, tall weeds had grown up about the
tree, making a screen before the hole and preventing the nectar-laden insects
from entering readily. "This won't do at-all-at-all," he said to Jessamy, as she
took her seat on a limb of the bee tree. "There must be nothing to obstruct them
in entering, for sometimes they drop with their loads when they have difficulty
in winging directly in, and can't get up again." "Uh-huh," she concurred. She
had unlaid one of her black braids and was replaiting it again after the havoc
wrought by the prickly bushes. Oliver lighted his bee-smoker and sent several
soft puffs into the hole to quiet the bees. Then without gloves or veil, which
the experienced beeman seldom uses, he laid hold of the tall weeds and began
uprooting them. Thus engaged, he kneeled down and reached under the tree trunk
to get at the roots of certain obstinate plants; and in that instant he felt a
sharp sting in the fleshy part of his wrist. "Ouch! Holy Moses!" he croaked. "I
didn't expect to find a bee under there!" "Get stung?" "Did I! Mother of Mike!
I've been stung many times, but that lady must have been the grandmother of--
Why, I'm getting sick--dizzy!--"

He came to a pause, swayed on his knees, and closed his eyes. Then came that
heart-chilling sound which, once heard, will never be forgotten, and will ever
bring cold terror to mankind--the rattlebone _whir-r-r-r-r_ of the diamond-back
rattlesnake. Oliver caught himself, licked dry lips, and was gazing in horror at
two bleeding, jagged incisions in his wrist. The girl, with a scream of
comprehension, darted toward him. He balanced himself and smiled grimly as she
grabbed his arm with shaking hands. "Got me," he said, "the son-of-a-gun! And
I'd have stuck my hand right back for another dose if he hadn't rattled."
Jessamy grabbed him by both shoulders and tried to force him to the ground. "Sit
down and keep quiet!" she ordered, sternly, her nerves now firm and steady, her
face white and determined. "No, not that way!" She grasped him under the arms
and with the strength of a young Amazon slued him about as if he had been a sack
of flour. Deftly she bound his handkerchief about his arm, drawing it taut with
all her strength. Something found its way into his left hand. "Drink that!" she
commanded. "All of it. Pour it down!" Then her lips sought the flaming wound;
and she clamped her white teeth in his flesh and began sucking out the poison.
At intervals she raised her head for breath and to spit out the deadly fluid.
"Drink!" she would urge then. "And don't worry. Not a chance in the world of
your being any the worse after I get through with you." Oliver obeyed her
without question, taking great swallows from the flask of fiery liquor and
closing his eyes after each. His senses swam and he felt weak and delirious,
though he could not tell whether this last was because of the poison or the
liquor he had consumed. At last Jessamy leaned back and fumbled in a pocket of
her chaps. She produced a tiny round box, from which she took a bottle of dry
permanganate of potash and a small lancet. With the keen instrument she hacked a
deep x in his arm, just over the wound. Then she wet the red powder with saliva
and worked a paste into the cuts with the lancet. This done, she sat back and
regarded her patient complacently. "Just take it easy," she counselled. "And,
whatever you do, don't worry. You won't know you were bitten in an hour. Sip
that whisky now and then. It won't kill the poison, as some folks seem to
believe, but it will make you light-hearted and you'll forget to worry. That's
the part it plays in a case like this. Now if I can trust you to keep quiet and
serene, I'll seek revenge." He nodded weakly. She arose, and presently again
came that sickening _whir-r-r-r-r-r_ miscalled a rattle, followed immediately by
a vicious _thud-thud-thud_. "There, you horrid creature!" he heard in a low,
triumphant tone. "You thought I was afraid of you, did you? Bring total collapse
on all your fictitious traditions and bite before you rattle, will you!
_Requiescat in pace_, Mr. Showut Poche-daka!" Half an hour afterward Oliver Drew
was on his feet, but he staggered drunkenly. To this day he is not just sure
whether he was intoxicated or raving from the effects of the snakebite. Anyway,
as Jessamy took hold of him to steady him, his reason left him, and he swept her
into his arms and kissed her lips time and again, though she struggled valiantly
to free herself. Ultimately she ducked under his arms and sprang away from him
backward, her face crimson, her bosom heaving. "Sit down again!" she ordered
chokingly. "Shame on you, to take advantage of me like that!" "Won't sit down!"
he babbled, reaching about for her blindly. "I love you an' I'm gonta have you!"
"You're out of your head! Sit down again! Please, now." Her tone changed to a
soothing note. "You're--I'm afraid you're drunk." He was groping for her,
staggering toward a threatening outcropping of rock. With a rapid leap she
closed in on him unexpectedly, heaved desperately to the right and left, and
threw him flat on his back. Then she scrambled on top of his knees as he strove
to rise again. "Now, looky-here, mister," she warned, "you've gone just about
far enough! In a second I'll get that bee-smoker and put you out of business.
Please--please, now, be good!" He seemed partially stunned by the fall, for he
lay now without a move, eyes closed, his mind wandering dreamily. And thus he
lay for half an hour longer, when he suddenly raised his head and looked at her,
still propped up on his knees, with eyes that were sane. "Golly!" he breathed.
"Golly is right," she agreed drolly. "Were you drunk or crazy?" "Both, I guess.
I'm--mighty sorry." His face was red as fire. "Do you wish to get up?" "If you
please." He stood on his feet. He was still weak and pale and dizzy. "Heavens!
That liquor!" he panted. "What is it? Where did you get it?" "At home. Old Adam
gave me the flask over a year ago. It's only whisky. I always carry a flask for
just such an emergency as this. And I never go a step out of the house in the
summer without my snakebite kit. Nobody ought to in the West." He shook his
head. "That's not whisky," he said. "I'm not exactly a stranger to the taste of
whisky. That's brimstone!" "I was told it was whisky," she replied. "I know
nothing about whisky. I've never even tasted it." He held the flask to the sun,
but it was leather-covered and no light shone through. He unscrewed the metal
cap and poured some of the liquor into it. It was colourless as water.
"Moonshine!" he cried. "And I know now why the flow from my spring was cut off.
A still calls for running water!" "You may be right," she said without
excitement. "You will remember that I told you there is another reason besides
Selden's covetousness of your grass land why you are wanted out of the Clinker
Creek Country." CHAPTER XII

THE POISON OAKERS RIDE

A red-headed, red-breasted male linnet sat on the topmost branch of the old,
gnarled liveoak near Oliver's window and tried to burst his throat to the
accompaniment of Oliver's typewriter. When the keys ceased their clicking the
singer finished a bar and waited, till once more the dicelike rattle encouraged
him to another ecstatic burst of melody. "Well, I like to be accommodating,"
remarked Oliver, leaning back from his machine, "but I can't accompany you all
day; and it happens that I'm through right now." He surveyed the last
typewritten sheet of his manuscript on the cleaning of springs for the enlarging
of their flow; but, the article completed, his mind was no longer engrossed by
it. Other and bigger matters claimed his thoughts, and he sat in the soft spring
air wondering about old Chupurosa Hatchinguish and his strange behaviour on
seeing the gem-mounted _conchas_ stamped with the letter B. When Oliver had
stripped off his shirt in the hut that day the scar that a German bayonet had
left in his side had carefully been examined by the ancient chief. Oliver
fancied there had been a strange new look in his inscrutable eyes as he silently
motioned for him to put on his shirt again. He had made no comment whatever,
though, and said nothing at all until the young man had finished dressing. Then
he had stepped to the door and opened it, rather impolitely suggesting that his
guest's presence in the hut was no longer necessary. As Oliver passed out he had
spoken:

"When next the moon is full," he said, "the Showut Poche-dakas will observe the
Fiesta de Santa Maria de Refugio, as taught them years ago by the padres who
came from Spain. Then will the Showut Poche-dakas dance the fire dance, which is
according to the laws laid down by the wise men of their ancestors. Ride here to
the Fiesta de Santa Maria de Refugio on the first night that the moon is full.
_Adios, amigo!_"

That was all; and Oliver had passed out into the bright sunlight and found
Jessamy Selden. The two had talked over the circumstances often since that day,
but neither could throw any light on the matter. But the first night of the full
moon was not far distant now, and Oliver and the girl were awaiting it
impatiently. Oliver felt that at the fiesta he would in some way gain an inkling
of the mysterious question that had puzzled his father for thirty years, and
which eventually had brought his son into this country to find out whether its
answer was Yes or No. Oliver tilted back his chair and lighted his briar pipe.
Out in the liveoak tree the linnet waited, head on one side, chirping
plaintively occasionally, for the renewed clicking of the typewriter keys. But
Oliver's thoughts were far from his work. That burning, colourless liquor that
had so fiercely fired his brain was undoubtedly moonshine--and redistilled at
that, no doubt. Jessamy had told him further that she had not so much as
unscrewed the cap since old Adam had given her the flask, at her request, and
had had no idea that the flask had not contained amber-coloured whisky. Was this
in reality the reason why the Poison Oakers wished him to be gone? Had they been
distilling moonshine whisky down at Sulphur Spring to supply the blind pigs
controlled by the prosecuting attorney at the county seat? And had his
inadvertent shutting off of Sulphur Spring's supply of water stopped their
illicit activities? They had known, perhaps, that eventually he would discover
that his own spring had been choked by some one and would rectify the condition.
Whereupon Sulphur Spring would cease to flow and automatically cut off one of
their sources of revenue. Oliver decided to look for Sulphur Spring at his
earliest opportunity. His brows came together as he recalled the episode on the
hill, when either the fiery raw liquor or the poison from the diamond-back's
fangs--or both--had deprived him of his senses. He remembered perfectly what he
had said--what he had done. He had heard sometime that a man always tells the
truth when he is drunk. But had he been drunk, or rabid from the hypodermic
injections of Showut Poche-daka? Or, again--both? One thing he knew--that he
thrilled yet at remembrance of those satin lips which he had pressed again and
again. Had he told the truth? Had he said that day what he would not have
revealed for anything--at that time? His brows contracted more and more, and a
grim smile twitched his lips. His teeth gripped the amber stem of his pipe. Had
he told the truth? He rose suddenly and went through a boyish practice that had
clung to him to the years of his young manhood. He stalked to the cheap
rectangular mirror on the wall and gazed at his wavy reflection in the flawed
glass. Blue eye into blue eye he gazed, and once more asked the question:

"Did I tell the truth when I said I loved her?" His eyes answered him. He knew
that he had told the truth. Then if this was true--and he knew it to be true--
what of the halfbreed, Digger Foss? He remembered a gaunt man, stricken to his
death, reeling against the legs of a snorting white mare and clutching at them
blindly for support--remembered the gloating grin of the mounted man, the muzzle
of whose gun followed the movements of his wounded enemy as a cobra's head sways
back and forth to the charmer's music--remembered the cruel insolence of the
Mongolic eyes, mere slits. He swung about suddenly from the mirror and caught
sight of a knothole in the cabin wall, which so far he had neglected to patch
with tin. He noted it as he swung about and dived at the pillow on his bed. He
hurled the pillow one side, swept up the ivory-handled '45 that lay there,
wheeled, and fired at the knothole. There had been no appreciable pause between
his grasping of the weapon and the trigger pull, yet he saw no bullet hole in
the cabin boards when the smoke had cleared away. He chuckled grimly. "I might
get out my army medals for marksmanship and pin 'em on my breast for a target,"
he said. Then to his vast confusion there came a voice from the front of the
house. "Ain't committed soothin' syrup, have ye?" it boomed. There was no
mistaking the deep-lunged tones. It was Old Man Selden who had called to him.
Oliver tossed the gun on the bed and walked through to the front door, which
always stood open these days, inviting the countless little lizards that his
invasion of the place had not disturbed to enter and make themselves at home.
The gaunt old boss of the Clinker Creek Country stood, with chap-protected legs
wide apart, on Oliver's little porch. His broad-brimmed black hat was set at an
angle on his iron-grey hair, and his cold blue eyes were piercing and direct, as
always. In his hands he held the reins of his horse's bridle. Back of the grey
seven men lounged in their saddles, grinning at the old man's sally. Digger Foss
was not among the number. "How d'ye do, Mr. Selden," said Oliver in cordial
tones, thrusting forth a strong brown hand. Selden did not accept the hand, and
made no effort to pretend that he had not noticed it. Oliver quickly withdrew
it, and two little lumps showed over the hinges of his jaws. He changed his tone
immediately. "Well, what can I do for you gentlemen?" he inquired brusquely. "We
was ridin' through an' thought we heard a shot," said Selden. "So I dropped off
to see if ye wasn't hurt." "I beg your pardon," Oliver returned, "but you must
have been dismounted when I fired. This being the case, you already had decided
to call on me. So, once more, how can I be of service to you?" The grins of the
men who rode with Adam Selden disappeared. There was no mistaking the
businesslike hostility of Oliver's attitude. "Peeved about somethin' this
mornin'," one of them drawled to the rider whose knee pressed his. Oliver looked
straight at Old Man Selden, and to him he spoke. "I am not peeved about
anything," he said. "But when a man comes to my door, and I come and offer him
my hand, and he ignores it, my inference is that the call isn't a friendly one.
So if you have any business to transact with me, let's get it off our chests."
Oliver noted with a certain amount of satisfaction the quick, surprised looks
that were flashed among the Poison Oakers. Apparently they had met a tougher
customer than they had expected. All this time the cold blue eyes of Adam Selden
had been looking over the pitted Bourbon nose at Oliver. Selden's tones were
unruffled as he said:

"Thought maybe the poison oak had got too many for ye, an' ye'd shot yerself."
"I don't care to listen to subtle threats," Oliver returned promptly. "Poison
oak does not trouble me at all--neither the vegetable variety nor the other
variety. I'm never in favour of bandying words. If I have anything to say I try
to say it in the best American-English at my command. So I'll make no pretence,
Mr. Selden, that I have not heard you don't want me here in the canyon. And I'll
add that I am here, on my own land, and intend to do my best to remain till I
see fit to leave." Selden's craggy brows came down, and the scrutiny that he
gave the young man was not without an element of admiration. No anger showed in
his voice as he said:

"Just so! Just so! I wanted to tell ye that I been down to the recorder's office
and up to see Nancy Fleet, my wife's sister. Seems that you're right about this
prop'ty standin' in your name an' all; but I thought, so long's we was ridin'
along this way, I'd drop off an' have a word with ye." "I'm waiting to hear it."
"No use gettin' riled, now, because--"

"If you had accepted my hand you'd not find me adopting the tone that I have."
"Just so!" Selden drawled. "Well, then, I'll accept her now--if I ain't too
bold." "You will not," clicked Oliver. "Will you please state your business and
ride on?" "Friendly cuss, ain't he, Dad?" remarked one of the Selden boys--which
one Oliver did not know. "You close yer face!" admonished Selden smoothly, in
his deep bass. "Well, Mr. Drew, if ye want to stay here an' starve to death,
that's none o' my concern. And if ye got money to live on comin' from somewheres
else, that's none o' my concern either. But when ye stop the run o' water from a
spring that I'm dependin' on to water my critters in dry months, it _is_ my
concern--an' that's why I dropped off for a word with ye." "How do you know I
have done that?" Oliver asked. "Well, 'tain't likely that a spring like Sulphur
Spring would go dry the last o' May. Most o' these springs along here are fed
from the same vein. You move in, and Sulphur Spring goes dry. So that's what I
dropped off to talk to ye about. Just so!" "I suppose," said Oliver, "that the
work I did on my spring has in reality stopped the flow of Sulphur Spring.
But--"

"Ye do? What _makes_ ye suppose so?--if I ain't too bold in askin'." Oliver's
lips straightened. Plainly Selden suspected that Jessamy had told him of the
peculiarity of the canyon springs, and was trying to make him implicate her. But
the old man was not the crafty intriguer he seemed to fancy himself to be. He
already had said too much if he wished to make Oliver drag the girl's name into
the quarrel. "Why, what you have just told me, added to my knowledge of what I
did to clean out my spring, leads to that supposition," he replied. "But, as I
was about to remark when you interrupted me, I can't see that that is any
concern of mine. That's putting it rather bluntly, perhaps; but I am entirely
within my rights in developing all the water that I can on my land, regardless
of how it may affect land that lies below me." "Right there's the point,"
retorted Selden. "I'm a pretty good friend o' the prosecutin' attorney down at
the county seat. He tells me ye can't take my water away from me like that."
"Then I should say that your legal friend is not very well posted on the laws
governing the development and disposition of water in this state," Oliver
promptly told him. "I wrote him," said Selden, "an' I'll show ye the letter if
ye'll invite me in." For the first time Oliver hesitated. Why did Selden wish to
enter the cabin? Could not the letter be produced and read on the porch? It
flashed through his mind that the old fox wished to get him inside so that some
of his gang might investigate the spring and find out the volume of the water
that was flowing, and what had been done to increase it. This only added to his
belief that the Poison Oakers were responsible for the wall of stones that had
choked the stream. Well, why not let them find out all that they wished to know
in this regard? "Certainly," he invited. "Come in." And he stood back from the
door. Selden clanked his spur rowels across the threshold. At the same time he
was reaching into his shirtfront for the letter. Then an odd thing occurred. He
was about to take the chair that Oliver had pushed forward when his blue eyes
fell upon the saddle and bridle which had come to stand for so much in Oliver's
life, hanging from a thong in one corner of the room. The old Poison Oaker's
eyes grew wide, and, as was their way when he was moved out of his customary
brooding mood, his thick nostrils began dilating. But almost instantly he was
his cold, insolent self again. "I heard some of 'em gassin' about that rig o'
yours," he remarked. "Said she was a hummer all 'round. That it there? Mind if I
look her over?" "Not at all." Oliver was quick to grasp at any chance that might
lead to the big question and its answer. Old Man Selden's leather chaps whistled
his legs to the corner, where he stood, long arms at his sides, gazing at the
saddle, the bridle, and the martingales. His deep breathing was the only sound
in the room. Outside, Oliver heard foot-steps, and suspected that the
investigation of his spring was on. At last Adam Selden made a move. He changed
his position so that his spacious back was turned toward Oliver. Quietly Oliver
leaned to one side in his chair, and he saw the cowman's big hand outstretched
toward the gem-mounted _concha_ on the left-hand side of the bridle--saw thumb
and fingers turn that part of the bridle inside-out. Again the room was
soundless. Then Selden turned from the exhibit, and Oliver grew tense as he
noted the strange pallor that had come on the old man's face. "That's a han'some
rig," was all he said, as he sank to his chair and laid a letter on the
oilcloth-covered table. The letter contained the information that its recipient
had claimed, and was signed Elmer Standard. Oliver quickly passed it back,
remarking:

"He's entirely wrong, and ought to know it. I have had occasion to look into the
legal aspect of water rights in California quite thoroughly, and fortunately am
better posted than most laymen are on the subject." But the chief of the Poison
Oakers was scarce listening. In his blue eyes was a faraway look, and that weird
grey pallor had not left his face. Suddenly he jerked himself from reverie, and,
to Oliver's surprise, a smile crossed his bearded lips. "Just so! Just so! I
judge ye're right, Mr. Drew--I judge ye're right," he said almost genially.
"Anyway you an' me'd be out-an'-out fools to fuss over a matter like that.
There's plenty water fer the cows, an' I oughtn't to butted in. But us
ol'-timers, ye know, we--Well, I guess we oughta be shot an' drug out fer the
cy-otes to gnaw on. I won't trouble ye again, Mr. Drew. An' I'll be ridin' now
with the boys, I reckon. Ye might ride up and get acquainted with my wife an'
step-daughter--but I guess ye've already met Jess'my. I've heard her mention ye.
Ride up some day--they'll be glad to see ye." And Oliver Drew was more at a loss
how to act in showing him out than when he had first faced him on the porch. The
Poison Oakers, with Old Man Selden at their head, rode away up the canyon.
Oliver Drew was throwing the saddle on Poche's back two minutes after they had
vanished in the trees. He mounted and galloped in the opposite direction,
opening the wire "Indian" gate when he reached the south line of his property.
An hour later he was searching the obscure hills and canyons for Sulphur Spring,
but two hours had elapsed before he found it. It was hidden away in a little
wooded canyon, with high hills all about, and wild grapevines, buckeyes, and
bays almost completely screened it. While cattle might drink from the overflow
that ran down beyond the heavy growth, they could not have reached the basin
which had been designed to hold the water as it flowed directly from the spring.
Moreover, it was doubtful if, during the hot summer months, the rapid
evaporating would leave any water for cattle in the tiny course below the
bushes. Oliver parted the foliage and crawled in to the clay basin. Cold water
remained in the bottom of it, but the inflow had ceased entirely. He bent down
and submerged his hand, feeling along the sides of the basin. Almost at once his
fingers closed over the end of a piece of three-quarter-inch iron pipe. Then in
the pool before his face there came a sudden _chug_, and a little geyser of
water spurted up into his eyes. Oliver drew back instinctively. His face
blanched, and his muscles tightened. Then from somewhere up in the timbered
hills came the crash of a heavy-calibre rifle. CHAPTER XIII

SHINPLASTER AND CREEDS

White Ann and Poche bore their riders slowly along the backbone of the ridge
that upreared itself between Clinker Creek Canyon and the American. Occasionally
they came upon groups of red and roan and spotted longhorn steers, each branded
with the insignia of the Poison Oakers. Once a deer crashed away through thick
chaparral. Young jackrabbits went leaping over the grassy knolls at their
approach. Down the timbered hillsides grey squirrels scolded in lofty pines and
spruces. Next day would mark the beginning of the full-moon period for the month
of June. Jessamy Selden was in a thoughtful mood this morning. Her hat lay over
her saddle horn. Her black hair now was parted from forehead to the nape of her
neck, and twisted into two huge rosettes, one over each ear, after the constant
fashion of the Indian girls. So far Oliver Drew had not discovered that he
disliked any of the many ways in which she did her hair. "What are your views on
religion?" was her sudden and unexpected question. "So we're going to be heavy
this morning, eh?" "Oh, no--not particularly. There's usually a smattering of
method in my madness. You haven't answered." "Seems to me you've given me a
pretty big contract all in one question. If you could narrow down a bit--be more
specific--"

"Well, then, do you believe in that?" She raised her arm sharply and pointed
down the precipitous slopes to the green American rushing pell-mell down its
rugged canyon. They had just come in sight of the gold dredger, whose great
shovels were tearing down the banks, leaving a long serpentine line of debris
behind the craft in the middle of the river. "That dredge?" he asked. "What's it
to do with religion?" "To me it personifies the greed of all mankind," she
replied. "It makes me wild to think that a great, lumbering, manmade toy should
come up that river and destroy its natural beauty for the sake of the tiny
particles of gold in the earth and rocks. Ugh! I detest the sight of the thing.
The gold they get will buy diamond necklaces for fat, foolish old women, and not
a stone among them can compare with the dewdrop flashing there in that filaree
blossom! It will buy silk gowns, and any spider can weave a fabric with which
they can't begin to compete. It will build tall skyscrapers, and which of them
will be as imposing as one of these majestic oaks which that machine may uproot?
Bah, I hate the sight of the thing!" "Gold also buys food and simple clothing,"
he reminded her. "I suppose so," she sighed. "We've gotten to a point where gold
is necessary. But, oh, how unnecessary it is, after all, if we were only as God
intended us to be! I detest anything utilitarian. I hate orchards because they
supplant the trees and chaparral that Nature has planted. I hate the irrigating
systems, because the dams and reservoirs that they demand ruin rugged canyons
and valleys. I hate railroads, because their hideous old trains go screeching
through God's peaceful solitudes. I hate automobiles, because they bring
irreverent unbelievers into God's chapels." "But they also take cramped-up city
folks out into the country," he said. "And all of them are not irreverent." "Oh,
yes--I know. I'm selfish there. And I'm not at all practical. But I do hate
'em!" "And what _do_ you like in life?" he asked amusedly. "Well, I have no
particular objection to horned toads, for one thing," she laughed. "But I'm only
halfway approaching my subject. Do you like missionaries?" "I think I've never
eaten any," he told her gravely. But she would not laugh. "I don't like 'em,"
she claimed. "I don't believe in the practice of sending apostles into other
countries to force--if necessary--the believers in other religions to trample
under foot their ancient teachings, and espouse ours. All peoples, it seems to
me, believe in a creator. That's enough. Let 'em alone in their various creeds
and doctrines and methods of expressing their faith and devotion. Are you with
me there?" "I think so. Only extreme bigotry and egotism can be responsible for
the zeal that sends a believer in one faith to the believers in another to try
and bend them to his way of thinking." "I respect all religions--all beliefs,"
she said. "But those who go preaching into other lands can have no respect at
all for the other fellow's faith. And that's not Christlike in the first place."
He knew that she had something on her mind that she would in good time disclose,
but he wondered not a little at her trend of thought this morning. "The Showut
Poche-dakas are deeply religious," she declared suddenly. "Long years ago they
inhabited the coast country, but were gradually pushed back up here. Down there,
though, they came under the influence of the old Spanish padres; and today their
religion is a mixture of Catholicism and ancient tribal teachings. They are
sincere and devout. I have as much reverence for a bareheaded Indian girl on her
knees to the Sun God as I have for a hooded nun counting her beads. They believe
in a supreme being; that's enough for me. You'll be interested at the fiesta
tomorrow night. I rode up there the other day. Everything is in readiness. The
_ramadas_ are all built, and the dance floor is up, and Indians are drifting in
from other reservations a hundred miles away." "Will you ride up with me
tomorrow afternoon?" he asked. "Yes, I think so--that is, since I heard what Old
Man Selden had to say about you the day after he called. I'll tell you about
that later. Yes, all the whites attend the _fiestas_. The California Indian is
crude and not very picturesque, compared with other Indians, but the _fiestas_
are fascinating. Especially the dances. They defy interpretation; but they're
interesting, even if they don't show a great deal of imagination. By the way, I
bought you a present at Halfmoon Flat the other day." She unbuttoned the flap on
a pocket of her _chaparejos_, and handed him a small parcel wrapped in sky-blue
paper. "Am I to open it now or wait till Christmas?" he asked. "Now," she said.
The paper contained a half-dozen small bottles of liquid courtplaster. "Oh, I'm
perfectly sane!" she laughed in her ringing tones as he turned a blank face to
her. "Tomorrow," she went on, "you are to smear yourself with that liquid
courtplaster, from the soles of your feet to your knees. When one coat dries,
apply another; and continue doing so until the supply is exhausted." She threw
back her head and her whole-souled laughter awoke the echoes. "It's merely a
crazy idea of mine," she explained. "I had a bottle of the stuff and was reading
the printed directions that came with it. It seems to be good for anything, from
gluing the straps of a decollette ballgown to a woman's shoulders to the
protection of stenographer's fingers and harvesters' hands at husking time. It's
almost invisible when it has dried on one's skin; and I thought it might be of
benefit to you in the fire dance." "Say," he said, "you're in up to your neck,
while I've barely got my feet wet. Come across!" "Well, I'm not positive," she
told him, "but I'm strongly of the opinion that you're going to dance the fire
dance at the Fiesta de Santa Maria de Refugio tomorrow night." "I? I dance the
fire dance? Oh, no, Miss--you have the wrong number. I don't dance the fire
dance at all." "I think you will tomorrow night, and I thought that liquid
courtplaster might help protect your feet and legs. I put some on my second
finger and let it dry, then put my finger on the cookstove." "Yes?" "Well, I
took it off again. But, honestly, the finger that had none on at all felt a
little hotter, I imagined. I'm sure it did, and I only had two coats on. I know
you'll be glad you tried it, and the Indians will never know it's there." "I'm
getting just a bit interested," he remarked. "Well," she said, "after what
passed between you and Chupurosa Hatchinguish that day, I'm almost positive that
tomorrow night you are to be extended the honour of becoming a member of the
tribe. And I know the fire dance is a ceremony connected with admitting an
outsider to membership. White men who have married Indian women are about the
only ones that are ever made tribal brothers by the Showut Poche-dakas; so in
your case it is a distinct honour. "I have seen this fire dance. While a white
person cannot accurately interpret its significance, it seems that the fire is
emblematical of all the forces which naturally would be pitted against you in
your endeavour to ally yourself with the Showut Poche-dakas. "For instance,
there's your white skin and your love for your own people, the difference in the
life you have led as compared with theirs, what you have been taught--and, oh,
everything that might be against the alliance. All this, I say, is represented
by the fire. And in the fire dance, my dear friend, you must stamp out these
objections with your bare feet if you would become brother to the Showut Poche-
dakas." "With my bare feet? Stamp out these objections?" "Yes--as represented by
the fire." "You mean I must stamp out a _fire_ with my bare feet? _Actually?_"

"Actually--literally--honest-to-goodnessly!" "Good night!" cried Oliver. "I'll
cleave to my kith and kin." "And never learn the question that puzzled your
idealistic father for thirty years? Nor whether the correct answer is Yes or
No?" "But, heavens, I don't put out a fire that way!" "It's not so dreadful as
it sounds," she consoled. "You join the tribe, and you all go marching and
stamping about a big bonfire for hours and hours and hours, till the fire is
conveniently low. Then the one who is to be admitted to brotherhood and a chosen
member of the tribe--the champion fire-dancer, in short--jump on what is left of
the fire and stamp it out. Of course there are objections to you from the view-
point of the Showut Poche-dakas, and they must be overcome by a representative
of them. If the fire proves too much for your bare feet the objections are too
strong to be overcome, and you never will be an honourary Showut Poche-daka. But
if the two of you conquer the fire with your bare feet the ceremony is over, and
you're It. And when the other Indians see that you two Indians"--her eyes
twinkled--"are getting the better of the fire, they'll jump in and help you." "A
very entertaining ceremony--for the grandstand," was Oliver's dry opinion. "Of
course the Indian's feet are tough as leather, and they have it on you there.
Hence this liquid courtplaster. It's worth a trial. Honestly, I held my finger
on the stove--oh, ever so long! A full second, I'd say." Back went her glorious
head, and her teeth flashed in the sunlight as, drunk with the wine of youth and
health, she sent her rollicking laughter out over the hills and canyons. "I'll
be there watching and rooting for you," she assured him at last. "I can do so
openly now--since you've won the heart of Adam Selden. What do you think? He
told me to invite you over sometime! But all this doesn't fit in quite logically
with the ivory-handled Colt I see on your hip today for the first time. Explain
both, please." "Well," he said, "Selden seemed ready to cut my throat till he
examined Poche's bridle and saw the B on the back of a _concha_." "Ah!" she
breathed, drawing in her lips. "And then he grew nice as pie--and that's all
there is to that." "And the six?" "Well, I buckled it on this morning, thinking
I might practice up a bit, as you advised." "So far so good. Now amend it and
tell the truth." "I went down to Sulphur Spring after the Poison Oakers left me,
and as I was examining the water a bullet plunked into it from the hills and I
got my eyebrows wet. As I don't like to have anybody but myself wet my eyebrows,
I'm totin' a six. And I rather like the weight of it against my leg again. It
reminds me!" "Who shot at you?" He shrugged. "_At_ you, do you think?--or into
the water to frighten you?" "Whoever fired could not see me, but knew I was in
the bushes about the spring. Took a rather long chance, if he merely wished to
give me a touch of highlife, don't you think?" "I wonder if the bullet is still
in the basin." "I never thought of that. I ducked for cover at once, of course,
and, as nobody showed up, rode back home." She lifted White Ann to her hind legs
and spun her about in her tracks. "We'll ride to Sulphur Spring and look for
that bullet," she announced. "And be ambushed," he added, as Poche followed
White Ann's lead. CHAPTER XIV

HIGH POWER

Jessamy and Oliver had wheeled their horses with such unexpected suddenness that
the man who was trailing them was caught off his guard. He stood plainly
revealed for a moment in the open; then he found his wits and plunged
indiscriminately into the shielding chaparral. "Oh-ho!" cried Jessamy in a low
tone. "The plot thickens! Did you see him?" "I'm going after him," declared her
companion. "Stop!" she commanded, as he lifted Poche for a leap toward the
skulker's vanishing point. He reined in quickly. "Why?" "What good will come of
it? Why try to nose him out? We may be ahead in the end if we play the game as
they do. We have more chance of finding out what they're up to by leaving them
alone, I'd say." "Play the game, eh?" he repeated. "So there's a game being
played. I didn't just know. Thought all that's afoot was the big idea of chasing
me over the hills and far away. And from Selden's latest attitude, it looks as
if that had been abandoned. Game, eh?" "That's what I'd call it. Quite evidently
the man was spying on us." "Did you recognize him?" "I can't make sure." "But
you think you know him," he said with conviction. "Yes. I imagined it was Digger
Foss. But he got to cover pretty quickly." "His horse can't be far away. Maybe
we can locate him somewhere along the back trail. I'd know that rawboned roan."
"So should I. Let's send 'em along a little faster." They had by this time
reached the opening in the chaparral into which their shadow had dodged. By
common consent they passed it without looking to right or left. "He may imagine
we didn't see him," whispered Jessamy. "I hope he does." There was an open
stretch ahead of them, and across it they galloped, the girl piercing the
thickets on the right in search of a saddle horse, Oliver sweeping the slopes
that descended to the river. But neither saw a horse, and in the trail were no
hoofprints not made by their own mounts. "He has been afoot from the start,"
decided Jessamy. "I wish I knew whether or not it was Digger Foss." They wound
their way down to Sulphur Spring presently, and came to a halt in the ravine
below it. "Now," said Oliver, "who knows but that my sniper is not hidden up
there in the hills?" "I'll look for that bullet," she purposed, and swung out of
her saddle. "Oh, no you won't!" His foot touched the ground with hers. "Yes--
listen! No one would shoot at me. But they might take another crack at you, even
with me along to witness it. If they were hidden and could get away unseen, you
know. But they'd not shoot at me." "How do you know?" "Well, I'm one of them--
after a fashion. They all like me--and at least one of them wants to gather me
to his manly breast and fly with me." "But things are different since I came.
You've taken sides with me. If any one looks for that slug, I'm the one that'll
do it." He started toward the spring. "Stop!" she ordered, and grasped his
shirt-sleeves. "Listen here: I'd bet a dollar against a saddle string that that
was Digger Foss we saw up on the ridge." "Well?" "He's afoot. He can't have had
time to get down here and guard Sulphur Spring." "All right. Well?" "And I know
positively that Adam Selden and the boys are up north today after a bunch of
drifters. So none of them can be here. That eliminates six of the Poison Oakers.
There would be left only Obed Pence, Ed Buchanan, Chuck Allegan, and Jay
Muenster--all privates, next to outsiders. None of them would shoot at me,
and--" She came to a full stop and eyed him speculatively. "And I'm going to
look for that bullet," she finished limpingly. Oliver looked her over
thoughtfully. "I can't say that I get what you're driving at at all," he
observed. "But it seems to me that you're trying to convey that, with the
Seldens and Digger Foss eliminated, there is no danger." She closed her eyes and
gave him several vigorous, exaggerated nods. "But aren't all of the Poison
Oakers concerned in my speedy removal from this country?" "Well--yes"--
hesitatingly. "That's right. But the four will not molest me. I know. Please
let's not argue about what I _know_ is right!" His lips twitched amusedly. "But
one of the four _might_ take a pot-shot at me. Is that it?" Again the series of
nods, eyes closed. "You see," she said, "only the Seldens and Digger Foss accuse
me of being on your side. So if any one of the other four were to see me go to
the spring he'd think I was merely after water, or something. But if you were to
go, why--why, it might be different." Saying which she unexpectedly darted away
from him up the ravine, left the shelter of the trees, and walked boldly to the
spring. She parted the bushes and disappeared from sight. Oliver stole quickly
to the edge of the cover and hid behind a tree, his Colt unholstered and hanging
in his hand. His eyes scoured the timbered hills on both sides of the spring,
but not a movement did he see. He puzzled over Jessamy's speech as he watched
for evidences of a hostile demonstration. "It smacks of a counter-plot," he
mused. "All of the Poison Oakers want me out of here, but only the Seldens and
the halfbreed are aware that Jessamy is friendly with me. But these four _must_
know it--everybody in the country does by now. It would look as if Old Man
Selden and his chosen five are the only ones who suspect her of having an
interest in me beyond pure friendship, then. That's it! She said there was
another reason other than the grazing matter why Old Man Selden wants me away.
And that can't be moonshining, after all; for if Pense and the others are likely
to shoot me at the spring, they're in on that. But now apparently Selden wants
to appear friendly. I can't get it! Jessamy's not playing just fair with me.
She's keeping something back. She's too honest and straightforward to be a good
dissembler; she's bungling all the way." She was returning swiftly down the
ravine before he had reached the end of his conclusions. She held up something
between dripping fingers as she entered the concealment of the trees. "It's
perfect still," she announced. "I thought it wouldn't be flattened or bent,
since it struck the water." Oliver took the small, soft-pointed, steel-banded
projectile from her hands and studied it. "M'm-m!" he muttered. "What's this?
Looks no larger than a twenty-two." She nodded. "So I'd say. A twenty-two high-
power--wicked little pill." "And which of the Poison Oakers packs a twenty-two
high-power rifle? Do you know?" "It happens that I do. I've taken the pains to
acquaint myself with the various guns of the Poison Oakers. Most of them use
twenty-five-thirty-fives. Old Man Selden, Bolar, and Jay Muenster use thirty-
thirties. There's one twenty-two high-power Savage in the gang, and it's a new
one. They say it's a devilish weapon." "Who owns it?" "Digger Foss." "Then it
was Foss who shot?" "Yes--and it's he who was following us today. You see,
Digger lives closer to this part of the country than any of the rest. He'd be
the only one likely to come in afoot." "Do you think he tried to lay me out?"
She looked off through the trees, and her face was troubled. "I'm afraid he
did," she replied in a strained, hushed key. "Had you been in sight, we might
determine that he had shot at the water before your face to put the fear of the
Poison Oakers into your heart. But he couldn't see you, in there hidden by the
dense growth. It was a fifty-fifty chance whether he got you or not. If he'd
merely wished to bully you, he'd never taken the chance of killing you by firing
into the growth." "I guess that's right," he said. "And now what's to be done?
I'll never be able to forget the picture of Henry Dodd clutching at White Ann's
legs for support in his death struggle. The situation is graver than I thought.
I expected to be bullied and tormented; but I didn't expect a deliberate attempt
on my life." With an impetuous movement she threw her bare forearm horizontally
against a tree trunk, and hid her eyes against it. "Oh, I wish you hadn't come!"
she half sobbed. "But you had to--you had to! And now you can't leave because
that would be running away. And you're as good as dead if this side-winder gets
the right chance at you. What _can_ we do!" Oliver was silent in the face of her
distress. What could he do indeed! All the chances were against him, with his
enemies ready and willing to take any unfair advantage, while his manliness
would not let him stoop to the use of such tactics. They probably would avoid an
out-and-out quarrel, where the chances would be even for a quick draw and quick
trigger work. They would ambush him, as the halfbreed had attempted to do. He
believed now that only the density of the growth about Sulphur Spring had stood
between him and death, for Digger Foss was accounted an expert shot. He gently
pulled Jessamy Selden from the tree. "There, there!" he soothed. "Let's not
borrow trouble. They haven't got me yet. Let's ride on. And I think you'd better
give me a little more of your confidence. I feel that you're keeping me in the
dark about some phases of the deal." She mounted in silence, and they turned up
Clinker Creek toward Oliver's cabin. "I'd never make a successful vamp, even if
I were beautiful," she smiled at last. "I can't hide things. I give myself away.
I'm always bungling. But I can play poker, just the same!" she added
triumphantly. "Don't try to hide things, then," he pleaded. "Tell me all that's
troubling you." She shook her head. "That's the greatest difficulty," she
complained. "I shouldn't have let you know that I have a secret, but I bungled
and let it out. And I must keep it. But just the same, I'm with you heart and
soul. I'm on your side from start to finish, and I want you to believe it." "I
do," he said simply. As they reached the cabin he asked: "Did you feel the end
of the pipe under the water in the spring?" She nodded. Then with the promise to
meet him next morning for their ride to the fiesta, she moved her mare slowly up
the canyon and disappeared in the trees. CHAPTER XV

THE FIRE DANCE

The round moon looked down upon a scene so weird and compelling that Oliver Drew
vaguely wondered if it all were real, or one of those strange dreams that leave
in the mind of the dreamer the impression that ages ago he has looked upon the
things which his sleeping fancy pictured. The moon rode low in the heavens. The
night was waning. Tall pines and spruce stood black and bar-like against the
silver radiance. Away in the distance coyotes lifted their yodel, half jocular,
half mournful, as a maudlin drunkard sings dolefully a merry tune. In a cup of
the hills, surrounded by acres and acres of almost impenetrable chaparral and
timber, a hundred or more human beings were clustered about a blazing fire.
Horses stamped in the corrals. Now and then an Indian dog cast back a vicious
challenge at the wild dogs on the hill. White men and women and Indian men and
women stood about the fire in a great circle, silent, intent on what was taking
place at the fire's edge. Within this outer circle of spectators revolved
another smaller circle of brown-skinned men and women. But one of this number
was white, and in the flickering light of the fire his skin glowed in odd
contrast to the skins of those who danced with him. For Oliver Drew was stripped
but for a breechcloth about his loins, and directly opposite him in the circle,
always across the fire from him as the human snake revolved about the flames,
was a stalwart young Indian, likewise nearly nude. He it was who at the proper
moment would dash upon the fire with this white man, when, with hands clasped
over it, they two would strive to beat it to ashes with naked feet. Side by
side, shoulder to shoulder, pressed into the circle like canned fish, the fire
dancers circled the leaping flames. Sweat streamed from their bodies, for the
fire was a huge one and roared and crackled and leaped at them incessantly. For
two solid hours the dance had been in progress. Now and then an old squaw, faint
from the heat of the fire and the nerve strain which only the fanatic knows,
dropped wearily out and staggered away. Then the rank would close and fill the
vacancy; and this automatically made the circle smaller and brought the dancers
closer to the flames, for they must touch each other always as they circled
slowly. Round about them hobbled Chupurosa, adorned with eagle feathers dyed red
and yellow and black. In his uplifted hand he held a small turtle shell, with a
wooden handle bound to it by a rawhide thong. In the shell, whose ends were
closed with skin, were cherry stones. The incessant rattling of them accompanied
the dancers' elephantine tread. It was the toy of childhood, and those who
danced to its croaking music were children of the hills and canyons, simple-
minded and serene. Slowly as moves a sluggish reptile in early spring the
dancers circled the fire, times without number. Guttural grunts accompanied the
constant thud of tough bare feet on the beaten earth. Now and then they broke
into chanting--a weird, uncanny wailing that sent shivers along the spine and
made one think of heathen sacrifices and outlandish, cruel heathen rites.
Straight downward, almost, the dancers planted their feet. When their feet came
down three inches had not been gained over the last stamping step. It required
many long minutes for the entire circle to complete the trip around the fire;
and this continued on and on till the brain of Oliver Drew swam and the fire in
reality took on the aspect of a tormenting, threatening ogre which this rite
must crush. Occasionally some fanatic would spring from the line and rush upon
the fire, striking at it with his feet, slapping at it with his hands, growling
at it and threatening it in his guttural tongue. Then the dance would grow
fiercer, and the chanting would break out anew, while always the cherry stones
rattled dismally and urged the zealots on. When would it end? There was fresh,
clean pitch in the great logs that blazed; and it seemed to Oliver that the
exorcism must continue to the end of time. At first he had felt like an utter
fool when he was led from the tent, almost nude, to face the curious eyes of
thirty or more white people. His simple instructions had been given him by
Chupurosa in the hut where he had been kept virtually a prisoner since his
arrival. Then he had been led forth and pressed into his place in the circle,
across from the other nearly naked man who swam so dizzily before his eyes. Then
the slow ordeal had begun, and round and round they went till he thought he must
surely lose his reason. On his feet and legs was the liquid courtplaster, and
Chupurosa had not observed it. Coat after coat he had applied, and had a certain
feeling of being fortified. Yet he doubted if, when the moment came for him to
leap upon the fire and clasp hands with the man opposite, any of the
mucilaginous substance would be left on the soles of his already burning feet.
He had seen Jessamy's face beyond the fire. She had smiled at him encouragingly.
But now her face had blended with the other faces that danced confusedly before
his eyes, and he could not separate it as the circle went slowly round and
round. An old man dropped, face down, on the earth, completely overcome. From
beyond the circle of dancers a pair of arms reached through and dragged him out
by the heels. The dance went on, and the dancers now were closer to the fire by
the breadth of one human body. Weirdly rose the chant to the moonlit night.
Coyotes answered with doleful ribaldry. A woman pitched forward on her face--a
young woman. She lay quite still, breathing heavily. Oliver stepped over her
body as they dragged her out to resuscitate her, and it seemed as he did so that
he scarce could lift his feet so high. Now one by one they dropped, exhausted,
reeking with sweat caused by the intensity of the heat from the burning pitch
logs. Two fell at once--one inward, the other back. Up rose the chant as they
were dragged away; fiercer grew the stamping; frenziedly the cherry stones
clicked in the turtle shell. Lower and lower rode the radiant moon. Blacker and
blacker grew the outlined woods. The coyotes ceased their insane laughter and
scurried off to where jackrabbits played on moonlit pasturelands. And still the
passionate exorcism went on and on, with men and women dropping every minute and
the circle narrowing about the fire and closing in. The blaze was lower now. The
pitch in the logs no longer sputtered and dripped blazing to the ground. But the
heat was still intense, and the white man's tender flesh was seared as the
giving out of some dancer forced the circle nearer and nearer to the flames. But
into his heart had come a fierce purpose born of the fanaticism responsible for
this ordeal. He was a man of destiny, he felt, though obliged to "carry on" with
blinded eyes. Something of the fierce, dogged nature of these wild people of the
woods entered his soul. He was dying by inches, it seemed, but the fire, glowing
and spitting hatred at him, became a real enemy to be conquered by grit and
stern endurance: and, held up by the bodies that pressed against his on either
side, he stamped on crazily, his teeth set, the ridiculous side of his plight
forgotten. And now the circle was pitiably small; and those who formed it
staggered and reeled, and scarce found breath to chant or revile their dying
enemy. But still the cherry stones rattled on while that old oak of a Chupurosa
moved round and about, tireless as an engine. Oliver dragged his feet now; he
thought he could not lift them. His brain was a dull, dead thing except for that
passionate hatred of the fire that the weird chanting and the strangeness of it
all had brought about. And now the fire grew lower, lower. Back of the ragged
hills the moon slipped down and left the wilderness in blackness. Only the fire
gleamed. Then suddenly the rattling of the cherry stones was quieted. Now the
only sounds were the weary thud-thud of tough bare heels and the stentorian
breathing of the zealous worshippers, an occasional heartrending grunt. On and
on--round and round. The very air grew tense. Dawn was at hand. Its cold breath
crept down from the snow-capped peaks. A glimmer of grey showed in the eastern
sky. Only fifteen of the Showut Poche-dakas plodded now about the failing fire,
by this time smouldering at their very feet. Fifteen Showut Poche-dakas--and
Oliver Drew! All were men, young men in life's full vigour. Yet they swayed and
reeled and staggered drunkenly as the dizzying ordeal went on through the grey
silence of dawn. Now dawn came fast and spread its inchoate light over the
silent assemblage in the hills. Then like a burst of sound disturbing a weary
sleeper, the cherry stones resumed their rattling. At once, back of the circle
of tottering dancers, a weird chant arose till it drummed in Oliver's ears and
seemed to be lulling him to sleep. Out of the void taut fingers came and clasped
his own. His hands were jerked high over his head. Something stung his feet and
legs, and he thought of the rattler on the hill. The chant rose to a riotous
shouting. The air was filled with imprecations, wailings, shrieks, and spiteful
challenges. Now Oliver realized that his fingers were locked with those of the
nude Indian who had danced opposite him; that they two were over the waning
fire, fighting it with their feet. How long it lasted he never knew. Life came
back to his mistreated muscles, and with his feet he fought this thing that
stung him and seared him and filled his heart with burning wrath. Then came a
long, concerted shout. In rushed the Showut Poche-dakas to the fighters' aid.
Bare feet by twenty-fives and fifties slapped at the fire, and a herd of dark
forms trampled over it and beat it to extinction. A long shout of triumph that
sped away on swift wings toward the coming dawn and the distant mountain! And
then a single voice lifted high in words which in English are these:

"The evil fire god has been defeated. No barrier stands between the white man
and the Showut Poche-dakas. From this hour to the end of time he who has danced
the fire dance tonight and conquered the evil spirit shall be brother to the
Showut Poche-dakas!" Then just before Oliver fainted in some one's arms he heard
in English:

"Seven hours and twenty minutes--the longest fire dance in the history of the
tribe!" And the new brother of the Showut Poche-dakas heard no more. CHAPTER XVI

A GUEST AT THE RANCHO

Then there was feasting and racing and dancing and much ado. Dice clicked; cards
sputtered; the pawn passed in the ancient _peon_ game. There was a barbecued
steer, athletic contests, and competitions in markmanship. The Fiesta de Santa
Maria de Refugio was to continue throughout the entire period of the full moon,
and there must be diversion for every day and every night. Oliver Drew awoke the
next day after the fire dance in the _ramada_ which had been assigned to him. He
felt as if he had been passed through a stamp mill, so sore were his muscles and
so burned and blistered were feet and legs. He had been carried to his bed of
green willow boughs directly after the dance, where he had slept until nearly
nightfall. Then he had been awakened and given food. After eating he fell asleep
once more, and slept all night, his head in the silver-mounted saddle that
Bolivio had made. He dragged himself from the shakedown and went and sat at an
opening in the booth. The _ramada_ of the California Indian is merely an
arbourlike structure built of newly cut limbs of trees, their still unwithered
leaves serving to screen the occupants from outside eyes. The birds were
singing. Up the steep mountainside back of the reservation the goats and burros
of the Showut Poche-dakas browsed contentedly on buckthorn and manzanita bushes.
There was the smell of flowers in the drowsy air, mingling strangely with that
indescribable odour that permeates an Indian village. It was noticeably quiet
outside. Doubtless the Indians were enjoying an early-morning siesta after some
grilling orgy of the night before. Oliver groaned with the movements necessary
to searching his pockets for cigarette materials. His groan was mimicked by a
familiar voice in the doorway. Jessamy Selden entered. "I've been listening for
a sound from you," she chirruped. "My, how you slept! All in?" "Pretty nearly,"
he said. She came and sat beside him on a box. "Are you badly burned?" "Oh, no.
I guess your courtplaster helped some. But I'm terribly sore. And, worst of all,
I feel like an utter ass!" "Why, how so?" He snorted indignantly. "I went
nutty," he laughed shortly. "I have lost the supreme contempt which I have
always had for people who go batty in any sort of fanatical demonstration, like
that last night. I've seen supposedly intelligent white folks go absolutely wild
at religious camp meetings in the South, and I always marvelled at their loss of
control. Now I guess I understand. Hour after hour of what I went through the
other night, with the chanting and wailing and the constant rattle of those
confounded cherry stones, and the terrible heat, and men and women giving out
all about me, and the perpetual thud-thud of bare feet--ugh! I wouldn't go
through it again for ten thousand dollars." "I thought it best not to warn you
of the severity of it beforehand," she announced complacently. "Very few white
men have ever danced the fire dance, and only one or two have held out to the
end. Of course failure to do so signifies that the powers working against the
affiliation are too strong to be overcome. These men who failed, then, did not
become brothers of the Showut Poche-dakas." "Lucky devils!" "Here, here!" she
cried. "Don't talk that way. You're glad, aren't you?" "I'm tickled half to
death." "Is it possible that you do not take this seriously, Mr. Drew?" "Look
here," he said: "why didn't you tell me more of what I might expect at this fool
performance?" "I was afraid you might look at the matter much as you're looking
at it now," she answered. "I knew you'd go through with it, though, if you once
got started. I knew it to be a terrible ordeal, but I was confident that you
would win." "I thank you, I'm sure. Win what, though? The reputation of being a
half-baked simpleton?" "Do you imagine that the white people who saw you are
ridiculing you?" "Aren't they?" "Absolutely nothing of the sort! You're the hero
of the hour. People about here always attend the fiestas, and you'll be
surprised to note the seriousness and lack of levity that they show in regard to
the rites and ceremonies of the Showut Poche-dakas. It's an inheritance from the
old days, I suppose, when the few white men who were here found it decidedly to
their advantage to be friendly with the Indians. They glory in your grit, and
everybody is talking about you. You should have heard Old Man Selden. 'There's a
regular man,' he loudly informed every one after the dance. And folks about here
listen to what Old Man Selden says, for one reason or another." "But it was such
an asinine proceeding!" "Was it? I thought you respected the other fellow's
beliefs and religious practices." "Was that a religious dance?" "Decidedly. All
of their dances are religious at bottom. You were trying to overcome the evil
spirit, represented by the fire, that stood between you and your union with the
Showut Poche-dakas. You are one of the few who have weathered this ordeal and
won. And now you're a recognized member of the tribe." "And is that an enviable
distinction?" "What do _you_ think about that?" Oliver was silent a time. "Tell
the truth," he said at last, "I've been thinking more of my sore muscles and
scorched legs, and of the ridiculous figure I supposed I had cut the other
night. I suppose, though, that when a hundred or more fellow creatures
unanimously admit a rank outsider to the plane of brotherhood, one would be
shallow minded indeed to look upon it too lightly." "Exactly. Just what I wanted
to hear you say. And the more simple natured and trusting they are, the more it
devolves upon you to treat their brotherhood with respect and reverence. You are
now brother to the Showut Poche-dakas; and you'll be a wiser man before you're
older by many days. In this little village you have always a refuge, no matter
what the world outside may do to you. Nothing that you could do against your own
race can make you an utter outcast, for here are your brothers, always eager to
shelter you. If you owned a cow and lost it, a word from you would send fifty
mounted men scouring the hills till the cow had been found and restored to you.
Will the people of your own race do that? If the forest was burning throughout
the country, rest assured your property would be made safe before your brothers
turned their efforts to protecting the homes of other white men. Is it trivial,
my friend?" "No," said Oliver shortly. "You have been greatly honoured," she
concluded. "You are the first white man on record who has been adopted by the
Showut Poche-dakas without first marrying an Indian girl. And even then they
must win out in the fire dance. If they fail, their brides must go away with
them, ostracized from their people for ever." "How many white men have been
honoured with membership?" he asked. "Very few. Old Dad Sloan was over and saw
the dance. He always attends fiestas if some one will give him a ride. He said
after the dance that he knew of only three white men before you who had won
brotherhood, though he had seen a dozen or more try for it." "Did he mention any
names?" "Yes," she said. "He mentioned Old Man Selden, for one." "Does he belong
to the tribe?" cried Oliver. "No, he fell down in the fire dance. He had married
an Indian woman, and after the dance he took his bride away with him. She died
six months afterward--pining for her people, it was supposed." "And who else did
he speak about?" "You remember the name of Dan Smeed, of course." "'Outlaw,
highwayman, squawman,'" quoted Oliver, trying to imitate the old '49er's quavery
tones. "Yes," she said. "He conquered the fire and was admitted to full
brotherhood." "And got gems for his bridle _conchas_," Oliver added. Jessamy
nodded. "And in some mysterious manner paved the way for you to become adopted
thirty years later." He turned and looked her directly in the eyes. "Was Dan
Smeed my father?" he asked abruptly. Her eyes did not evade his, but a slow
flush mounted to her cheeks. "I think we may safely assume that that is the
case," she told him softly. Oliver stared at the beaten ground under his feet.
"Outlaw--highwayman--squawman!" he muttered. Quickly she rose and laid a hand on
his shoulder. "Don't! Don't!" she pleaded sympathetically. "Don't think of that!
Wait!" "Wait? Wait for what?" "Wait till the Showut Poche-dakas have taken you
into full confidence. Wait for my Hummingbird to speak." Oliver said nothing.
She waited a little, then resumed her seat and said:

"And the next man that Old Dad Sloan mentioned as having tried the fire dance
was--guess who?" "The mysterious Bolivio." She nodded vigorously, both eyes
closed. "He succeeded?" "He did." "And the third man to succeed before me?" "I
forget the name. It is of no consequence so far as our mystery is concerned."
"_Your_ mystery, you mean," he laughed. "I'm beginning to believe you know all
about it--all about me, about my father and his young-manhood days." "Oh, no!"
she quickly protested. "But you know more than I do. And you see fit to make
mystery of it to my confusion." "Silly! I'm doing nothing of the sort. I've
positively told you all I can." "Be careful, now! Can, will, or may?" "Don't pin
me down. You know I'm a feeble dissembler." "You've told me all you _may_,
then," he said with conviction. "Have it that way if you choose. How about some
breakfast?--and then your triumphal entry into the festivities?" "I hate to show
myself--actually." "Pooh! I'm disappointed in you. Come on--I've ordered
breakfast for us in the restaurant booth. Red-hot chili dishes and _bellota_. It
should be ready by now." The Showut Poche-dakas, at least, paid very little
attention to Oliver as he limped from the _ramada_ at Jessamy's side. But he was
congratulated by white men on every hand, among them Mr. Damon Tamroy, the first
friend he had made in the country. "I wish you could 'a' heard what Old Dad
Sloan had to say after the dance," was Tamroy's greeting. "The dance got the old
man started, and he opened up a little. Selden wasn't about at the time, and Dad
said that once, years ago, Selden married a squaw and made a try at the fire
dance. There was two dances that night, Old Dad said. Selden's partner, too,
married an Indian girl, and both of 'em danced. Selden's partner won out, and
was made a member o' the tribe; but Selden fell down." "Did you get this
partner's name?" asked Oliver. "Le's see--what was the name Dad said?" "Smeed?"
asked Oliver. "That's it. Dave Smeed. No--Dan Smeed. This Smeed lived with the
tribe afterwards, it seems, but Selden and his girl beat it, accordin' to the
rules, and--"

"Sh!" warned Oliver. "Here comes Old Man Selden now." The old monarch of the
hills strode straight up to them, rowels whirring, chaps whistling. "Howdy, Mr.
Drew--howdy!" he boomed. "Howdy, Tamroy." He extended a horny hand to each.
"Some dance, as they say--some dance," he went on admiringly, and there was
almost a smile on his stern features. "The boys was bettin' on how it would come
out. The odds was ag'in ye, Mr. Drew. But I told 'em ye'd hold out. I been
through the mill myself. Might as well own up, since everybody knows it now--and
that I danced to a fare-you-well, but fell down hard. When ye gonta' pull yer
freight, Mr. Drew?" "I thought of riding home today," said Oliver. "I was just
talkin' to Jess'my," Selden continued. "Her and me concluded this here'd be a
good time to invite ye over to get acquainted. Can't ye ride to Poison Oak Ranch
with us just as well as ye can ride on home?" He tried to grin, but the effort
seemed to cause pain. Toward them Oliver saw Jessamy walking. He always had
admired her long, confident stride, and he watched her throughout the brief
space allowed him by courtesy to study his answer to her step-father. Then he
caught her eye. She began nodding vigorously. "I should have watered my garden
before coming to the fiesta," he told the old man. "I'm afraid it will suffer if
I don't get back to it directly. But--"

"Oh, she'll stand it another day. Folks irrigate too much, anyway. Ride home
with us today and stay all night." "I thank you, I'm sure," said Oliver. "Yes,
do come, Mr. Drew," put in Jessamy as she reached the group. "Just so!" added
Selden. And so it was arranged. The four stood in conversation. Over the girl's
shoulder Oliver now saw Digger Foss and two of the men who had ridden with
Selden the day he called at the cabin. They were staring at their chief and
Jessamy. A glowering look was on the face of at least one of them, and that one
was the halfbreed, Digger Foss. He stood with feet planted far apart, his fists
on his hips--squat, his bullet head juked forward aggressively, his Mongolic
black eyes glittering. A sneer curled his lips. He nodded now and then as one or
the other of his companions spoke to him, but he did not reply and did not
remove his steadfast glance from the group of which Oliver made one. "They's a
hoss race comin' off in a little," Selden was saying. "We'll stay for that, then
throw on the saddles and cut the dust for the rancho." Here Foss, with a shrug
of his wide, strong shoulders, turned away and disappeared in the crowd, his
companions following at his heels. Presently Selden and Tamroy left Jessamy and
Oliver together. "What's the idea?" Oliver asked her. "It's quite apparent that
he wants to be friendly with you," she pointed out. "It's just as well, of
course," said he. "But I can't fathom it. And at least one of the Poison Oakers
doesn't approve. I just saw Digger Foss glowering at us from behind Old Man
Selden's back." Jessamy elevated her dark eyebrows. "No, he wouldn't approve,"
she declared. "That's merely because of me, I guess. Well, we can't help that.
It's your part to play up to Old Man Selden and find out what is the cause of
his sudden change of heart toward you." "It's my riding outfit," he averred.
"That, and the fact that I've danced the fire dance. I'm gradually picking up a
thread here and there. By the way, you neglected to tell me this morning, when
we were on the subject, that Dan Smeed's partner was none other than Old Man
Selden." She glanced at him quickly. "I see that Mr. Damon Tamroy is in
character today. He does love to talk, doesn't he?" "You knew it, then?" She
hesitated. "Yes--Old Dad Sloan let it out last night," she admitted. "I think he
would have told me as much the day you and I called on him if he hadn't thought
it might hurt my feelings. I don't think it was his forgetfulness that made him
trip over the subject that day." "But if he mentioned it in your presence after
the fire dance, he must have forgotten that you are vitally interested." Her
long black lashes hid her eyes for an instant. "That's true," she admitted.
Oliver smiled grimly to himself. A lover would have small excuse for distrusting
this girl, he thought, for deception was not in her. A little later he left her
and sought out Damon Tamroy again. "Just a question," he began: "You know I'm
seeking information of a peculiar character in this country; so don't think me
impertinent. You said that Old Man Selden wasn't about when Dad Sloan spoke of
him as having been the partner of Dan Smeed." Tamroy nodded. "He'd gone to bed
in one o' the _ramadas_," he said. "Did Jessamy Selden overhear Old Dad Sloan
when he told that?" "No, she wasn't there either," replied Tamroy. "I reckon
she'd gone to bed too." "Thank you," Oliver returned. He knew now that Jessamy
Selden had merely been repeating some one else's version of Dad Sloan's
disclosures. He knew that she had been aware all along that Dan Smeed, his
father, had been the partner of Adam Selden. Had she known it, though, the day
she questioned the patriarch? It had seemed that she was trying her utmost to
make him mention the name of Dan Smeed's partner. Perhaps she had felt safe in
the belief that, out of consideration for her feelings, Dad Sloan would not
couple her step-father's name with that of a "highwayman, outlaw, and squawman"
who, he had said, was a "bad egg." Oliver was beginning to believe that Jessamy
Selden at that very moment knew the question that had puzzled Peter Drew for
thirty years, and what the answer to it should be. He believed that Jessamy had
known just who he was, and why he had come into the Clinker Creek Country, the
day she rode down to make his acquaintance. It seemed that she had considered it
a part of her life's work to seek him out. Later, she had worried a little for
fear he might think her bold in riding to his cabin as she had done. She had not
been seeking his companionship because she liked him, then. There was some
ulterior motive that was governing her actions. In him personally, perhaps, she
had no interest whatever. There was some secret connected with Old Man Selden,
and it dated back to the days when Selden and Oliver Drew's father were
partners, and had both married Indian girls. Jessamy had stumbled on this, and
when Oliver came she had known the reason that brought him, and had made haste
to ally herself with him in order to carry out whatever she had in mind. It was
this that had kept her in such close touch with him--not friendship for Oliver
himself. Oliver brooded. The thought hurt him. The damage had been done. He had
learned all this too late. He loved her now, and wanted her more than he wanted
anything else in life. She knew he loved her. She must know that he was not the
sort to tell her what he had told her if he had not meant it, and to grasp her
in his arms and kiss her, even under the strange condition in which the scene
had occurred. Not a word had passed between them regarding that episode since he
had blushingly apologized for his behaviour. She had taken it quite serenely, as
she seemed to take most things in life, and had displayed no confusion when next
they met. "You look so funny," she remarked when he at last sought her out after
the pony race. "Is anything the matter?" "Nothing at all," he told her. "I'm
going for our _caballos_ now. Selden and the boys are saddling up. I suppose
we'll all ride together." A little later he shook the withered hand of Chupurosa
Hatchinguish and bade him good-bye in Spanish. The chief of the Showut Poche-
dakas called him brother, and patted his back in a fatherly manner as he
followed him to the door of his hovel. But he made no mention of a future
meeting, and said nothing more than "brother" to indicate that a new relation
existed between them. Oliver led Poche and White Ann to Jessamy, and they swung
into the saddles and galloped to where Old Man Selden, Hurlock, and Bolar were
awaiting them in the dusty road. Hours later the little party of five rode over
the baldpate hill, then in single-file formation descended by the steep trail to
the bed of the American River. A half-hour afterward they entered the cup in the
mountainside, and Oliver Drew looked for the first time upon the headquarters of
the Poison Oakers. The girl, Selden, and Oliver left their saddles at the door,
and the boys rode on and led their horses to the corrals. Oliver was conducted
into the immense main room of the old log house, where he was presented by the
girl to her mother. The afternoon was nearly gone, and the two women at once
began preparing supper, while Old Man Selden and his guest sat and smoked near a
window flooded with the reflection of the sunset glow on fleecy clouds above the
canyon. Selden's talk was of cows and grazing conditions and allied topics.
Oliver Drew, half listening and putting in a stray comment now and then, watched
Jessamy in a role which was new to him. She had put on a spotless red-checkered
gingham dress that fitted perfectly, and revealed slim, rounded, womanly
outlines which are the heritage of strength and perfect health. Her black hair
was coiled loosely on top of her head, and a large red rose looked as if Nature
had designed it to splash its vivid colour against that ebony background. With
long, sure strides this girl of the mountains moved silently about from the
great glossy range to the work table, washing crisp lettuce, deftly beheading
snappy radishes, her slim fingers now white with dough and flour, or stirring
with a large spoon in some steaming utensil over the fire. An extra fine dinner
was in progress of preparation in honour of the Seldens' guest; yet the girl
worked serenely and swiftly, with not a false move, not a flutter of excitement,
never gathering so much as a spot on her crisp, stiff dress, always sure of
herself, master of her diversified tasks. Was this the girl that an hour before
he had seen so gracefully astride in a fifty-pound California saddle, her slim
legs covered by scarred, fringed chaps, her black hair streaming to the bottom
of her saddle skirts in two long, thick braids? There was a desperate tugging at
the heart-strings of Oliver Drew. He knew now that if he failed to win this girl
it were better for him had he not been born. And again and again she had sought
him out for some obscure reason in no way connected with a desire for his
companionship. He thought again of the episode on the hill after the rattlesnake
bite, and he grew sick at heart at remembrance of the feel of those soft, firm
lips. When they arose from the bounteous meal Selden said to his guest:

"It's still light outdoors. Wanta look over the ranch a bit?" They two strolled
out to the stables and talked horses and saddles. They looked perfunctorily over
the green young fruit in the orchard, and Selden showed Oliver the new pipe line
which now carried spring water into all three of the living houses. They killed
time till late twilight, and as one by one the stars came out the old man led
the way to a prostrate pine at the edge of a fern patch. On it they seated
themselves. "They was little matter I wanted to talk to you about," said Selden
half apologetically. "Le's have a smoke and see if we can't come to an
understandin'. Just so! Just so!" CHAPTER XVII

THE GIRL IN RED

Jessamy Selden finished washing and drying the supper dishes. Then she hurried
to her room and slipped into a red-silk dress, by no means out of date, silk
stockings, and high-heeled pumps with large shell buckles. A few deft pats and
her rich hair suited her, and the red rose glowed against the black
distractingly. She spun round and round before the mirror of her plain little
dresser, one set of knuckles at her waist, like a Spanish dancer, her face
trained over her shoulder at her reflection in the glass. There was a
mischievous gleam in her jetty eyes as she reached the conclusion that she was
all right. Just a hint of heightened colour showed in her cheeks when she
started for the living room. Old Man Selden had not yet returned with the guest
of the house. The trace of a pucker of disappointment came between her eyes,
then she was serene again as she lighted coal-oil lamps and sat down with a
book. She was alone in the great rough-walled room, like a gorgeous flower in a
weather-beaten box. Her mother was dressing--one dressed after dinner instead of
_for_ dinner in the House of Selden. Bolar and Moffat presumably had gone to sit
and look at their saddles while daylight lasted, since coming night forbade them
to mount and ride. Minutes passed. Jessamy stared at the open book in her hands,
but had not read a word. Why was Old Man Selden keeping their guest out there in
the night? A girlish pout which might have surprised Oliver Drew, had he seen
it, puckered her lips. The girl looked down at her red-silk dress and the natty
buckles on her French-heel pumps, and the pout grew more pronounced. She went
out doors, but no sound came to her save the intimate night sounds of the
wilderness. "_Darn_ the luck!" she cried in exasperation, her serenity for once
completely unavailing. Five minutes later she stepped from the gorgeous dress
with a sigh of resignation. She kicked off the pumps and pulled on her morocco-
top riding boots. She donned shirt and riding skirt, and slipped out by her own
door into the young night. Cautiously she approached the stables and corrals,
but found nobody. Lights gleamed in the windows of Hurlock's and Winthrop's
cabins, and from the latter came the doleful strains of Bolar's accordion. She
doubted if Selden and Oliver were in either of these houses. She walked up the
hill toward the spring, and presently heard the bass boom of Old Man Selden's
voice. A little later, flat on the ground, she was wriggling her way through
tall ferns toward two indistinct figures seated on a fallen pine. Like an Indian
she crept on silently, till by and by she lay quite still, close enough to hear
every word that passed between the men who sat in front of her. And her
conscience seemed not to trouble her at all. It had been practicable to come to
a pause at some little distance from the two, for their voices carried a long
way through the tranquil wilderness night. Behind her and up the hill the frogs
were croaking at the spring. Their horse-fiddling ceased abruptly, as if they
had been suddenly disturbed, and it was not immediately continued. Trained to
read a meaning in Nature's signs, she wondered at this; then presently she heard
a stealthy step between her and the spring. Lifting her head and shoulders above
the fronded plants, she saw a dark, crouched shape approaching warily. Some one
had walked past the spring and disturbed the croaking choir. She ducked low and
waited breathlessly, hoping that this second would-be eavesdropper, whoever he
might be, would not come upon her engaged in a like pursuit. At the same time
she was trying to hear what Selden was saying to Oliver Drew. It seemed from Old
Adam's slightly hesitating manner that he was as yet not well launched on the
subject that had caused him to pilot Oliver to this lonely spot. He said:

"I reckon they told ye ye wouldn't be welcome down on the Old Ivison Place.
Didn't some of 'em say, now, that a gang called the Poison Oakers might try to
drive ye out?--if I'm not too bold in askin'." "Yes," said the voice of Oliver
Drew. "Uh-huh! I thought as much. Well, Mr. Drew, ye got to make allowances for
ol'-timers in the hills. We get set in our ways, as the fella says; and I reckon
we _don't_ like outsiders to come in any too well. "But anybody with any savvy
oughta know its different in a case like yours. Why, what little feed we'd get
offen your little piece, if you wasn't there, wouldn't amount to the price of a
saddle string. It was plumb loco for any one to tell ye we'd raise a rumpus
'bout ye bein' down there." "I thought about the same," observed Oliver Drew
quietly. There came a distinct pause in the dialogue. Once more Jessamy
straightened her arms and pushed head and shoulders above the ferns. The person
who had disturbed the frogs was nowhere to be seen. He too, perhaps, had taken
up a lizardlike progress through the ferns, and was now listening to all that
was being said by Oliver and Selden. She flattened herself again, and held one
hand behind her ear to catch every word. "Yes, sir, plumb loco," Old Man Selden
reiterated. "And they ain't no reason on earth why you and us can't be the best
o' friends. That's what we oughta be, seein' we're pretty near neighbours." "I'm
sure I'm perfectly willing to be friendly, Mr. Selden." "Course ye are. Just so!
An' so are we. And listen here, Mr. Drew: Don't ye put too much stock in that
there Poison Oaker racket." "I don't know that I understand that." "Well,"
drawled Selden, "they ain't any such thing as a Poison Oaker Gang. That there's
all hot air. It's true that Obed Pence and Jay Muenster and Buchanan and Allegan
and Foss run what cows they got with ourn, and they're pretty good friends o' my
boys an' me. But as fer us bein' a gang--why, they's nothin' to it. Nothin' to
it a-tall! Just because we use a poison-oak leaf for our brand--why, that's what
got 'em to callin' us the Poison Oakers. And when anything mean is done in this
country, why, they gotta hang it onto somebody--and as a lot of 'em don't like
me and my friends, why, they hang it onto us and call us the Poison Oakers. Now
that there ain't right and just, is it, Mr. Drew?" "When you put it that way,"
Oliver evaded, "I should say that it is not." "No, sir, it ain't--not a-tall!
An' I'm glad ye understand and ain't got no hard feelin's." There was another
long pause. Fragrant tobacco smoke floated to Jessamy's nostrils. "If I ain't
too bold in askin', Mr. Drew--what was ol' Damon Tamroy fillin' yer ear with
about me today?" "He was telling me how Old Dad Sloan had spoken of your having
once danced the fire dance." "Uh-huh! Just so! Some o' my friends overheard Old
Dad spoutin' about it after I'd hit the feathers. Well, I don't reckon I care
any. It's nothin' to try to hide. Was that all Tamroy had to say?" Jessamy could
imagine on Oliver Drew's lips the grave, half-whimsical smile that she had seen
twitching them so often. She waited eagerly for his reply. "I think that the
subject you mention is all that he talked to me about," it came at last. "Just
so! Just so!" muttered Selden. "But didn't he say as how others had danced the
fire dance besides me and you?" "Yes, he mentioned others." "Just so! And who,
now--if I ain't too bold in askin'." "Let me see," said Oliver after a pause.
"Some other man's name was mentioned. A short name, if I remember correctly."
"Uh-huh! Plumb forget her, eh?" "It seems to me it was Smeed, or something like
that. Yes--Dan Smeed." Silence. Again tobacco smoke was wafted over the ferns.
"Dan Smeed, eh?" ruminated Selden finally. "Mr. Drew, did ye ever hear that name
before Damon Tamroy said it to ye?" Another thoughtful intermission; then--

"Yes, I had heard it before." "Just so! Just so! And if I ain't too bold in
askin'--just where, Mr. Drew?" "Why, I heard it first from Old Dad Sloan
himself. Miss Selden and I rode over to his cabin one morning, and we got him to
talking of the days of 'Forty-nine. He can be quite interesting when he doesn't
wander." "Uh-huh! And ye say ye heard the name Dan Smeed over to Old Dad Sloan's
fer the first time?" "Yes, sir." "_The first time in yer life, Mr. Drew?_"

"Yes. I had never heard of it until then." A short, low snort from Selden.
Jessamy knew it well. It signified: "I don't believe you!" Said Selden
presently: "Well, then, I'm gonta put another question to ye, Mr. Drew. I don't
want ye to think I'm tryin' to butt in, as the fella says. But s'long's Tamroy
was talkin' about me, I reckon it's right an' just that I should be interested.
Now, what did Tamroy tell ye Old Dad Sloan had to say 'bout this here Dan Smeed
and _me_?" "He said that you and Dan Smeed were one time partners." "Oh! Uh-huh!
Just so! Partners, eh? And was that the first time ye ever heard that, Mr.
Drew?" "Yes, the first time," said Oliver patiently. Again that peculiar little
snort of Selden. "How ye gettin' along down to the Old Ivison Place, Mr. Drew?"
was Selden's abrupt shift of the conversation. "Oh, my garden is fine. And I
have two colonies of bees storing up honey for me. Besides, I've located another
colony up in the hills, and will get them as soon as I can get around to it."
"But ye can't live on garden truck an' honey!" "I suppose I should have some
locusts to go along with them," laughed Oliver; but his flight was lost on Old
Man Selden. "You forget, though," the speaker added, "that I am writing for farm
journals. I've sold three little articles since I settled down there. I'll get
along, if my luck holds out." "Oh, yes--ye'll get along. I ain't worryin' 'bout
that. I'll bet ye could draw a check right this minute that'd pay fer every acre
o' land 'tween here an' Calamity Gap." "I'll bet I couldn't!" Oliver positively
denied. Old Man Selden chuckled craftily. "Ye're pretty foxy, Mr. Drew--pretty
foxy!" He had lowered his deep tones until Jessamy could barely distinguish
words. "Yes, sir--_mighty_ foxy! A garden an' bees an' writin' for a story
paper, eh? Oh, ye'll get along. I'll tell a man ye'll get along!" "I really have
no other source of revenue, Mr. Selden." "Just so! I understand. Well, Mr. Drew,
maybe I been a mite too bold; but I'll step in another inch or two and say this:
When ye need any help down there on the Old Ivison Place, just send word to Dan
Smeed's partner. D'ye understand?" "I thank you, I'm sure," Oliver told him
dryly. "But really I don't think I'll need any help. My garden is so small
that--"

"Just so! Still, ye never can tell when a foxy fella like you'll need help. And
Dan Smeed's partner'll be always ready to help. Just remember that." "Help with
what?" asked Oliver testingly. "In watchin' the dead," was Selden's surprising
answer, spoken in a crafty half-whisper. "In watching the dead!" cried his
listener. "Why, I--"

"Le's go in to the womenfolks now," interrupted Selden. "And keep thinkin' over
this, Mr. Drew. Always ready to help--d'ye savvy? And don't ye pay no attention
to that there supposed gang that they call the Poison Oakers. They ain't no such
gang. But if anybody does try to bother ye, tell me. Get me? Tell Dan Smeed's
partner. He'll help ye watch the dead." "You're talking in riddles," Oliver
snorted. "I don't understand--"

"Oh, yes, ye do! Ye savvy, all right. Ye're foxy, Mr. Drew. I'll say no more
just now. But when ye need my help...."

Their voices trailed off. Once again the girl's supple body rose from the hips,
and she searched the ferns on every side. For several minutes she lay quite
still in the same position. Then, perhaps fifty feet on her left, a head rose
above the tall fronds, and then a body followed it. Next instant a dark figure
was hurrying back toward the spring. Jessamy waited until sight and sound of it
were no more, then rose and ran with all her might toward the house. She slipped
in at her private door, hustled out of her clothes, and began donning her
gorgeous red dress again. "So Old Man Selden always shoots straight from the
shoulder, eh?" she muttered. "Piffle! When he wants to be he's a regular Barkis-
is-willin'!" In the midst of her dressing her mother tapped. "Jessamy, where
have you been?" she asked. "Mr. Selden and Mr. Drew are in the living room now.
I've knocked twice, but you didn't answer." "I was outdoors," Jessamy replied.
"I'm dressing now. I'll be right out." And a minute or two later Oliver Drew
gasped and his blue eyes grew wide as a silk-garbed figure, with a red rose in
her raven hair, glided toward him. Yea, even as the girl in red had planned that
he should gasp! CHAPTER XVIII

SPIES

Smith, the shaggy, mouse-coloured burro, lifted his voice in that sobbing wail
of welcome which has caused his kind to be designated as desert canaries, as
Oliver rode into the pasture. Smith's was a gregarious soul. To be left entirely
alone was torture. His ears were twelve inches long, and the protuberances over
his eyes were so craggy that Oliver had hesitated between the names of Smith and
William Cullen Bryant. On the whole, though, "Smith" had seemed more
companionable. Oliver loosed Poche to console the lonesome heart of Smith and
went at the irrigating of his garden. When a stream of water was trickling along
every hoed furrow he put on heavy hobnailed laced-boots and went into the hills
in search of his third bee tree. It seems illogical to set down that one could
live for nearly two months on forty acres of land without having explored every
square foot of it. But Oliver had not trod upon at least two thirds of his
property. Locked chaparral presents many difficulties. Farmers detest it, and
artists go wild over it. But farmers are obliged to sprawl flat and crawl
through it occasionally, while artists sit on their stools at a distance from it
that brings out all the alluring browns and yellows and greens and olives of
which it is capable under the magic of the changing sunlight. Oliver had seen
bees darting like arrows from the flowers in the creekbed in a westerly
direction, up over the thickest of the chaparral. Up there somewhere was another
colony of winged misers and their hoarded wealth of honey. Honey was bringing a
good price just then, and a merchant at Halfmoon Flat would buy it. So now the
beeman climbed the hill and crawled into the chaparral in the direction the
insects had flown. Scattered here and there through the dense thicket were pines
and spruce and black oak. In one of these trees the bees must have their home;
and his task of finding it was not entirely a haphazard quest. When he crawled
to an opening in the bushes he would climb into the crotch of one of them and
locate the nearest tree. Then, flattening himself once more, he would crawl to
this tree and look for a hollow for the bees. Finding none, he would locate
another tree and crawl to it. Thus wearisomely engaged he crawled into a
depression three feet deep in the earth beneath him. This allowed him to sit
erect for the first time in minutes, and he availed himself of the chance,
industriously mopping his brow. Now, Oliver Drew was not a miner, but he was a
son of the outdoor West and knew at once that he was seated in an ancient
prospect hole. About the excavation were piled the dirt and stones that had been
shovelled out. He speculated over it. For all he knew, it might date back to the
fascinating days of '49. A great forest of pines might have stood here then. Or
maybe the pines had been burned away, and a forest of gigantic oaks had followed
the conifers, to rear themselves majestically above the pigmies that delved,
oftimes impotently, for the glittering yellow treasure at their roots. Or,
again, the prospect hole might have been dug years later, after the oaks had
disappeared and the chaparral had claimed the land. There was no way of telling,
for every decade or so forest fires swept the country almost clean, and some new
growth superseded the old in Nature's endless cycle. Fifty feet farther on he
plopped into a second prospect hole, and a little beyond that he found a third.
He noted now that in all cases no chaparral grew up through the muck that had
been thrown out. This would seem to signify that the work had been done in
recent years, while the bushes that now claimed the land still grew there. He
found a fourth hole soon, and near it were manzanita stumps, the tops of which
had been cut off with an ax. This settled it. While the soil might show
evidences of the work of man for an interminable length of time, the roots of
the lopped-off manzanitas would rot in a decade, perhaps, and freezing weather
would loosen the stumps from their moorings. But this wood was still sound. The
prospecting had been done not many years before. And who had been prospecting
thus on patented land? When he had wormed his way to the crest of a hill he had
passed about twenty of these shallow holes. Now, at the top, the earth had been
literally gophered. The workings here looked newer still; and presently he came
upon evidence that proved work had been done not longer than a year before, for
dry leaves still clung to the tops of manzanita bushes that had been chopped off
and pitched to one side. It has been stated that he was not a miner. Still,
having been born and raised in a mining country, he knew something of the
geological formations in which gold ordinarily is found. He was in a gold
producing country now, yet the specimens that he picked up near the prospect
holes proved that only a rank tenderfoot would have searched so persistently in
this locality. He picked up a bit of white substance and gave it study. It
resembled lithia. The water of his spring contained a trace of lithium salts,
according to the analysis furnished him by the State Agricultural College, to
which he had mailed a sample. He pocketed the specimen for future reference. As
he sat on the edge of this hole, with his feet in it, he heard a rustling in the
bushes close at hand. At first he thought it might be caused by a jackrabbit;
but soon it became certain that some heavier, larger body was making its way
slowly through the chaparral. A coyote? A bobcat? A deer? He carried no gun
today, and the swift thought of a mountain lion was a bit unpleasant. He quickly
slid from his seat and stretched himself on the ground in the shallow
excavation. Oliver was an ardent student of nature, and he liked nothing better
than secretly to watch some wild thing as it moved about it its customary
routine, unconscious of the gaze of human eyes. Once he had hidden in wild
grapevines and watched a skunk searching for bugs along a creekbed, until
suddenly the moist bank crumbled beneath him, and he fell, and--But what
followed is what might be called an unsavory story. The crackling, scraping
sounds drew nearer, but whatever was making them was not moving directly toward
him. They ceased abruptly, and then he knew that the man or animal had reached
the open space in the brush in which the prospect holes were situated. As the
noises were not continued, he began raising himself slowly, until he was able to
look over the edge of the hole. It was not a browsing deer nor a hunting coyote
upon which he gazed. A squat, dark man, with chaps and spurs and Stetson, was
making his way across the open space to the continuation of the chaparral beyond
it. His eyes were mere slits, black, Mongolic. He was Digger Foss, the half-
white, right-hand man of Adam Selden. The progress of the gunman was not
stealthy, for undoubtedly he considered himself particularly safe from
observation up here in the wilderness of chaparral. He slouched bow-leggedly
across the break in the thicket, and dropped to hands and knees when he reached
the edge of it. He disappeared in the chaparral. The general direction that he
was pursuing was straight toward Oliver's cabin. Oliver lay quite still and
listened to the renewed sounds of his progress through the prickly bushes. Then
once more they stopped suddenly. Oliver knew that in the short space of time
elapsed Digger Foss could not have crawled beyond the reach of his hearing. He
had paused again. For perhaps five minutes he listened, but could hear no
further sounds. Then from not far distant there came the familiar clatter of a
dry pine cone in the manzanita tops. A moment more and Oliver was smiling
grimly. For Foss had suddenly appeared above the tops of the chaparral. He was
climbing a giant digger pine, which only a short time before Oliver had
investigated as the possible home of the bees he was striving to find. There in
plain sight the halfbreed was climbing like a bear from limb to limb, keeping
the trunk of the tree between his chunky body and the cabin in the valley.
Presently he settled astride a horizontal bough on Oliver's side, his back
toward the watcher. He adjusted himself as comfortably as possible, and then
there appeared in his hands a pair of binoculars. Leaning around the tree trunk,
screened by the digger pine's long, smoke-coloured needles, he focused the
glasses on the cabin down below. It looked to Oliver Drew as if this were not
the first time that the gunman had perched himself up there to watch proceedings
in the canyon. There had been no hesitancy in his selection of a tree which
stood in such a position that other trees would not obstruct his view from its
branches, no studying over which limb he might occupy to the best advantage.
Vaguely Oliver wondered how many times he had laboured and moved about down
below, with the keen, black, Chinese eyes fixed on him. It was not a comfortable
feeling, by any means. Now, though, his thoughts were taken up by the problem of
getting away unobserved by the spyglass man. Digger Foss was not a hundred feet
from where Oliver lay and watched him. If he should turn for an instant he would
see Oliver there, flat on his face in the excavation, for the halfbreed's perch
was twenty feet above the tops of the chaparral. Oliver had decided to make a
try at crawling on up the hill as noiselessly as possible, when new and far
slighter sounds came to his ears. So slight they were indeed that, if he had not
been close to the earth, he might not have detected them at all. But no bird or
small animal could be responsible for them, for they were continuous and
dragging. Once again he hugged the ground while he watched and waited. The
sounds came on--sounds that seemed to be the result of some one's dragging
something carefully over the shattered leaves on the ground. And presently there
hove into view another human being. He was an Indian--a Showut Poche-daka.
Oliver remembered his swarthy face, his inscrutable eyes. He had been pointed
out to him at the fiesta by Jessamy as the champion trailer of all the Paubas,
of which the Showut Poche-daka Tribe was a sort of branch. Often, Jessamy had
said, this Indian, who was known by the odd and laughable name of Tommy My-Ma,
had been employed by the sheriff of the county in tracking down escaped
prisoners or fleeing transgressors against the law. He wore no hat. He was
barefooted. His only covering seemed to be a pair of faded-blue overalls and a
colourless flannel shirt. Neither did he carry any weapon, so far as Oliver
could see. His progress was now soundless as he came from the chaparral, flat on
his belly, wriggling along like a lizard with surprising speed. His black,
glittering eyes were unquestionably fixed with rapt intentness on the man aloft
in the digger pine; and by reason of this alone he did not see Oliver Drew. His
movements commenced to be extraordinary. He wriggled himself speedily over the
unlittered earth and made no sound. There was a pile of dry brush at one edge of
the clearing, the tops of the bushes that had been cut off to facilitate the
sinking of the prospect holes. Toward this Tommy My-Ma glided; and when he
reached it he passed out of sight on the other side. Then suddenly he reappeared
again. Instantly he lowered his head to the ground at the edge of the pile of
brush; then swiftly the head and shoulders disappeared, the trunk and legs
following. For a second Oliver saw the bare brown feet, then they too went out
of sight. Oliver understood the disappearing act of Tommy My-Ma, he thought. The
pile of brush covered another of the prospect holes, and into the hole the
Showut Poche-daka had snaked himself. It seemed that he too had sought a hiding
place often frequented. In there he perhaps could sit erect and, screened by the
pile of brush, would be entirely hidden, while he himself could watch the spy in
the branches of the digger pine. For that he was in turn spying on the man who
was watching Oliver's cabin Oliver did not for a moment doubt. But why? That was
another matter! He was quite aware of his own unprotected position; and with
Tommy My-Ma now hidden in the brush scarce fifty feet away from him, he dared
not get out of his hole and try to crawl away. The situation struck him as
ridiculous in the extreme. Foss trying to spy on him; Tommy My-Ma spying on Foss
--the object of all this intrigue, Oliver himself, spying on both of them! And
how long must it continue? The only sounds now were the soft moaning of the wind
through the needles of the pines, and from afar, occasionally, the clear, cool
call of a valley quail: "Cut that out! Cut that out!" The sun was hot on the
resinous needles of the pines, and the smell of them filled the air. CHAPTER XIX

CONTENTIONS

Two horsemen met on the backbone of the ridge that separated Clinker Creek and
the green American. Obed Pence was a tall individual with a small mouth, a great
Roman nose, close-set black eyes over which black brows met so that they formed
a continuous line, and large, tangled front teeth. The man who met him in the
trail--a boy who had just turned twenty-one--was sandy-haired, freckled, snub-
nosed, and blue-eyed. His face was too boyish to show marked wickedness, but
Chuck Allegan was not the least important member of the Poison Oaker Gang.
"Howdy, Pencie?" he drawled, crooking his leg about his saddle horn as his black
horse stopped to rub noses with the bay that the other rode. "Where you headin'
for?" asked Obed Pence. "Down toward Lime Rock. There's some cows o' mine and a
bunch o' calves down there. That breechy old roan devil steered 'em up thataway.
She's always wanderin' off with a bunch like that. Come on down with me--I want
to move 'em up with the rest o' the bunch. Soil's thin down thataway, an'
grass's already gettin' brown." "Any o' mine in that bunch?" "I dunno. Like's
not. Come on--you ain't got nothin' to do." "Maybe I have and maybe I ain't,"
retorted Pence half truculently. "What you doin', then?" "Watchin' out for that
fella Drew." "Who told you to? Old Man?" Pence spat a stream of tobacco juice.
"Not a-tall," he replied. "I guess you ain't heard what's new." "I ain't heard
nothin' new. Spring it!" "Foss is the one told me to keep my eye on Drew. Said
for me to keep to this ridge over here and try to get a line on what he's up to
if he come up this way. Digger's over in the hills on the other side o' the
canyon, watchin'. He's got glasses." "What's the good o' watchin' this guy? Why
don't we get in and fire 'im out o' the country, like we said we was goin' to
do?" Obed Pence's irregular teeth twisted off another chew of tobacco. "That's
the funny part of it," he observed. "Digger's workin' alone, it seems. Old Man
tells him not to bother Drew at all. Says he'll tend to 'im 'imself, when he
gets 'round to it. First time I ever saw Old Man Selden hang back on puttin' a
bur under anybody's tail when he wanted to get rid of 'im. An' now he passes the
word for nobody to bother Drew till he says to. Digger don't like it. He's sore
on the old man." "What'd Digger say?" "I just know mostly by the way he acts.
There's somethin' funny goin' on. Ever since that day we all rode down to Drew's
cabin and heard the shot inside, Old Man's been actin' funny. Digger an' me was
wonderin' what them two was talkin' about in the cabin, that made the old man
change the way he done. Why, say, he went down there to scare the ticks outa
Drew that day. And after that, you know, we had it all made up to turn cows in
on Drew's garden when he was away, an' let 'em get at his spring. Then Jay
Muenster was goin' to slip in sometime and put a live rattlesnake in Drew's bed.
And if all that didn't start 'im, we was gonta begin plunkin' at him from the
chaparral, you know--just drop a few bullets at his feet when he was workin' in
his garden. Wasn't that right?" "Sure was, Pencie." "An' we rode down there to
start things goin'," Pence continued. "And when Old Man come outa the cabin he
was bowin' and scrapin', and this and that and the other, like him and Drew had
been pals all their lives. There's somethin' funny. Digger don't like it
a-tall!" "Does Ed know anything?" asked Chuck after a pause. "No, he don't,"
answered Obed Pence. "It was Ed told Old Man 'bout Digger takin' a crack at Drew
when he was monkeyin' 'round Sulphur Spring. And Old Man told Ed to tell Digger
to cut it out, and that he was runnin' the gang and would tell anybody when he
wanted 'em to throw down on Drew." "I know." "And Digger asks 'im when he sees
'im did he want Drew monkeyin' about the spring and gettin' onto the pipe that
took water to the still. And Old Man says to hell with the still; he was gonta
cut out makin' booze, anyway." "Cut it out?" "That's what he told Digger Foss."
"Hell, he makes more money sellin' monkey rum to Standard than outa anything
else! And it's always been safe. Pro'bition didn't cut no ice with us--just give
us ten times the profit!" Pence shrugged his ridgy shoulders. "I'm just tellin'
you how things are goin'. Drew made us loose the Sulphur Spring water to run the
still with, and Old Man didn't seem to give a whoop about it. Drew finds the
pipe, like as not, and that don't seem like it worried the boss. Just says he'll
cut out distillin'. Why, he's layin' right down to this fella Drew. Drew's got
Old Man buffaloed!" "Not a-tall," disagreed Chuck Allegan. "You know better'n
that, Pencie. Man don't live that c'n buffalo Old Man Selden. He's double-
crossin' us--that's what! There's somethin' behind all this. What's Digger
watchin' Drew for? Is that any way to run a man outa the country? I'm askin'
you!" "That runnin'-out-o'-the-country business has got to be an old gag. Le'me
tell you somethin': I wasn't goin' to, but I will. Digger said not to mention
it. But listen! You know Old Man took Drew home with 'im after the fiesta."
Chuck nodded his boyish head. "Well, Digger wasn't asleep at the switch. When it
got dark he rides across the river and into the ranch to see if he c'n find out
what's stirrin'. He ain't liked the way things 'a' been goin' since he got outa
jail. Course it's Jess'my that's got his goat. Drew's cuttin' 'im out; and since
the day we rode into Drew's Digger thinks Old Man's ag'in 'im, an's helpin' Drew
get Jess'my. "Anyway, whatever's the reason, Digger leaves his horse in the
chaparral and sneaks in and sees 'em at supper. And he sticks 'round till
supper's over and Old Man steers Drew out to the corrals for a talk. They set
down on that old felled pine in the ferns below the spring, and Digger snakes up
through the ferns and hears 'em talkin'." "What'd he say they said?" Chuck asked
eagerly. "Didn't have any too much to say about it," Pence replied. "Just said
Old Man and Drew was nice as pie to each other; and Old Man told Drew there
wasn't any use him bein' scared o' the Poison Oakers, 'cause there wasn't no
such outfit." "Said there wasn't no such outfit?" "That's what I said!" "And
Digger wouldn't tell no more?" "No, he wouldn't. And I'll bet you there was a
lot more to tell. I savvied Digger wasn't springin' all he heard. But he don't
like it." "Maybe they was talkin' 'bout Jess'my. Then he wouldn't have nothin'
to say, you can bet yer life!" "I got my doubts," Pence ruminated. "No, there
was somethin' else. I know that shifty little bullet eye o' Digger's. He was
keepin' somethin' back that he ought to told the rest of us. I don't like the
way things are goin'. Since this Drew showed up, seems like we all got somethin'
to keep from one another. Old Man's tryin' to double-cross the gang someway.
Foss is tryin' to get in on it, or else he's aimin' to double-cross us an' Old
Man, too, all on his lonesome. An' we can't make any more booze 'cause o' Drew;
an' Old Man says, We sh'd worry! A hell of a mess! We're due for a big bust-up,
I'm thinkin'. What's Foss sneakin' about watchin' Drew for? Huh! Answer me that?
An' why'd he tell me to watch up here an' trail 'im if I saw 'im, without
tellin' me why? I'm gettin' about sick o' the whole dam' deal! I ain't takin'
orders from Digger Foss!" "Me, too," agreed Allegan. "And that fire dance--
that's 'at gets me! Funny about this guy Drew, comin' here a stranger, an'
dancin' the fire dance right away. Somethin' funny, all right! Most folks
thought maybe he'd hooked up with a squaw, but it ain't that. Gets _my_ goat!
But how 'bout the Selden boys?" "They ain't said a word. I reckon they're in
with Old Man, whatever he's got on his chest. If we come to a split-up, that'll
make Old Man and the four boys on one side, and me an' you an' Ed Buchanan and
Jay Muenster on the other side. Five to four." "But how 'bout Digger? He's
always been strong with Old Man Selden. He'll stick with him." "Maybe--maybe. He
won't be with us, though. An' I'm doubtin' if he'll be with Selden, either. He's
out fer Foss!" "Fer Jess'my, ye mean!" "'Sall the same," shrugged Obed Pence.
"Le's ride down an' get a couple o' drinks, an' then I'll fog it down to Lime
Rock with ye. T'hell with Digger Foss an' his orderin' me 'round!" They rode
away in silence, winding their way down into Clinker Creek Canyon when a mile or
more below the forty acres of Oliver Drew. They dismounted at Sulphur Spring and
pushed through the growth surrounding it. Only a little water now remained in
the clay-lined reservoir. The protruding end of the three-quarter-inch pipe was
now plainly visible, eight inches above the surface of the tiny pool. "Just
think," Obed Pence observed: "That pipe's took water down the canyon for us for
years; and s'long's the pool was full o' water nobody ever found the end of it
here. At least they never let on they did. An' now comes this Drew an' puts the
kibosh on everything! I'll tell a man I'm gettin' sore about it, Chuck. I want
my booze, and I want my share o' what we could get out of it. I'm bettin'
Standard'll be wild when he learns Old Man won't distil any more." "Can't,"
corrected Chuck. "Can't, eh? Who's stoppin' 'im? Drew, that's who, and nobody
else! And he won't send Drew over the hills talkin' to 'imself, like he's done
to many a better man before 'im. I'm sore, I tell you. And I'm gonta find out
what's doin', or know the reason why." "Le's get clay an' cover the end o' the
pipe," suggested Chuck. "Some deer hunter's likely to see it if we don't, now
that the water's pretty near gone." They solemnly administered this rite in
remembrance of dead days, and rode on down the canyon single-file. Over three-
quarters of a mile from the spring they left their horses in the creek bottom
and clambered up a steep slope, slipping on the polished pine needles underfoot.
Near the summit the trees thinned, and heavy chaparral usurped the land. On
hands and knees they plunged into it, and presently were crawling on their
stomachs over an unmarked route. In the heart of the chaparral they came
suddenly upon a circular opening made by the hand of man. Here was a high ledge
of schist, and under it a small cave. Grass grew here, for the spot marked the
other end of the pipe line from Sulphur Spring, and the water that had
represented the spring's overflow had trickled out to cool the copper coil of
the Poison Oakers' still, incidentally refreshing the barren land. The pipe line
represented a great amount of toil and patience, but, as the pipe had been
stolen from a railroad shipment, no great outlay of funds. Clinker Creek Canyon
dipped so steadily below Sulphur Spring that it had been possible to lay the
pipe to this hidden spot in the heart of the chaparral, far up on the hillside,
and still maintain a goodly fall for the flow of water. Only by crawling flat on
his face could one reach this secluded rendezvous; and in all the years that
they had made molasses rum here the Poison Oakers had not been disturbed. Not
even a hunter would find it necessary to penetrate this fastness. Men would have
laughed if told that water was flowing up here on the dry, rocky eminence.
Before the cave's mouth was an adobe furnace for the fire, and over it the now
dry end of the pipe hung uselessly. The still was removable, and was now in the
cave, together with distilled stock on hand and kegs of molasses that had been
packed into the canyon on burros' backs, then trundled laboriously up into the
chaparral. Chuck and Obed entered the open cave and sat themselves down beside a
barrel with a wooden spigot. They found glasses and wiped soil and cobwebs from
them with their thumbs, and soon the water-coloured liquor flowed to the
temporary gladdening of their hearts. But as it flowed again and again they
began renewing their grievances, and shook their heads over "the good old days,"
and mouthed vague threats, and forgot all about Lime Rock and the breachy cow.
In the midst of their maudlin conversation Obed Pence heard a sound, despite his
rum-dulled sensibilities. "Cut it out!" he husked. "Somebody's beatin' it in
here." He lay flat in the mouth of the cave and looked down the hillside under
the chaparral. "Old Man and Bolar," he announced. "Le's get out an' beat it over
the hill, and back down to our _caballos_--and they won't know we been here,"
Chuck suggested. "Huh! Not me!" retorted Pence. "They already seen our horses,
I'll bet. Anyway, I'm liquored up just right to tell Old Man how the war broke
out. I'm glad he's comin'. I'm gonta know what's what right pronto!" CHAPTER XX

"WAIT!" For over an hour Oliver Drew was obliged to lie flat at the bottom of
the shallow prospect hole, while Foss remained astride the limb of the digger
pine and Tommy My-Ma kept hidden under the pile of brush. There was no chance to
steal out and crawl away through the chaparral, for, while Digger's back was
always toward him, he could not tell which way the brush-screened Showut Poche-
daka was looking. At last, though, the man on lookout began to show signs of
vast uneasiness. His position was uncomfortable, and down at the cabin there
was, of course, no movement to arouse his interest and relieve the tedium of his
watch. He squirmed incessantly for a time; and then apparently he decided that
the object of his espionage had left the ranch, for he thrust his glasses in his
shirt front and began monkeying to the ground. Oliver's security now was in the
hands of chance. If the halfbreed left his observation post by a route which
passed near the prospect hole, Oliver would be discovered. If he decided to
leave the thicket by crawling downhill, Oliver would be safe from detection. It
was rather a breathless minute that followed, and then he heard the gunman
moving off through the chaparral in the direction of the canyon--the least
difficult route by far. Apparently he had not come mounted, else he would have
retraced his course back to where he would have left his horse. Gradually the
sounds of his retreat died away. Still there was no movement in the pile of
brush, so far as Oliver's ears were able to detect. He dared not look up over
the edge of the prospect hole that hid him. Minutes passed. Quail called coolly
from afar. Still not the slightest sound from the brush pile. For half an hour
longer Oliver lay motionless and silent. Had Tommy My-Ma slipped out noiselessly
and followed Foss? Or was he for some obscure reason still hiding under the dry
manzanita tops? At the end of this period Oliver decided that the Indian must
have gone. Anyway, he did not purpose to remain in that hole till nightfall. So
he elevated his nose to the land level and peered about cautiously. Everything
remained as he had seen it last. He rose to his feet, left the hole, and walked
boldly to the brush pile. A swift examination of the ground showed that Tommy
My-Ma had left his place of concealment, perhaps long since. There was a plainly
marked trail through the shattered leaves that led in the same direction taken
by the departing halfbreed. Oliver studied the brush pile, and found that the
facilities for hiding were as he had deduced. Pine limbs had been laid across
the hole like rafters, and the brush heaped on top of them. Beneath was a space
deep enough for a man to sit erect; and he might thrust his head up into the
brush and peer out in all directions. Loose brush concealed the entrance, and it
had been replaced when the Indian took his leave. What was the meaning of it
all? Foss, of course, had reason to hate him; but what could he gain by secretly
watching him from cover? And why was the Indian watching Foss in turn? All
indications pointed to the belief that Foss had occupied his observation tree
often, and that his shadow had as frequently trailed him and spied on him from a
prearranged hiding place. What strange, mysterious intrigue had enveloped his
life because of the unanswered question with which old Peter Drew had struggled
for over thirty years? When would he face the question? Would the answer be Yes
or No? Would his college education prove a safeguard against his reading the
answer wrong, as his poor, unlettered old father had hoped? And Jessamy! Would
she figure in the answer? Somehow he felt that hope and life and Jessamy hung on
whether his answer would be Yes or No. His dead father's hand seemed to be
weaving the warp and woof of his destiny. Oliver gave up further search for the
bees that day. By a circuitous route he returned to his irrigating of the
garden. June days passed after this, and July days began. The poison oak had
turned from green to brilliant red, and now was dark-green once more. The air
was hot; the grass was sear and yellow; the creek was dry but for a deep pool
abreast the cabin. But Oliver did not worry much now about the creek, except for
the loss of its low, comforting murmur and the greenness with which it had
endowed its banks, because the enlarged flow from his spring was ample for his
needs. No longer did linnets sit near his cabin window and sing to the
accompaniment of his typewriter keys. Their season of love was over; the young
birds were feathered out and had left their nests. The wild canaries still were
with him, and hovered about the rambling willow over the spring. Eagles soared
aloft in the clear, hot skies. Lizards basked lazily about the cabin, and
blinked up contentedly when he tickled their sides with a broomstraw, or dangled
pre-swatted flies before their grinning lips. For a week now he had seen no
member of the Poison Oaker Gang. The cows bearing their brand were all about
him, but gave him no trouble, and he thought it strange that he chanced to meet
no one riding to look after them. He had not been bothered. Whether Digger Foss
spent his idle hours watching him from the branches of his lookout pine he did
not know or care. He had not seen Jessamy since the morning he left Poison Oak
Ranch, and all his worriment and discontent found vent in this. Why had she not
ridden down to him, as of old? Had he offended her in any way? The thought was
unbelievable, for he could recall not the slightest hint of any
misunderstanding. He brooded and moped over it, and loved her more and more--
realized, because of her absence, just how deeply he desired her. He experienced
all the tortures of first love; and then one day he found his senses. Then he
laughed loud and long, and ran for Poche, and threw the silver-mounted saddle on
his back. She had come to him when he could not go to her. Now her step-father
had invited him to her home, and if he wished her companionship he must take the
male's part and seek it. What an utter ass he had been indeed! It was one
o'clock when Poche bore him into the cup in the mountains that cradled Poison
Oak Ranch. At once the longed-for sight of her gladdened his heart once more,
for she apparently had seen him coming and was walking from the house to meet
him. How her sturdy, womanly figure thrilled his soul! Black as night was the
hair that was now coiled loosely on her head, in which a red rose blazed as when
he had seen her last. The confident poise of her head, the warm tints of that
strong column that was her neck, the brave carriage of her shoulders, her
swinging stride, the long black lashes that seemed to be etched by an Oriental
artist--they set his heart to pounding until he felt faint; the yearning,
hopeless void of love tormented him. And then with his senses awhirl he leaned
from the saddle and felt her warm, soft hand in his, and gazed dizzily into the
unsounded depths of the trout pools shaded by grapevines, to which his fancy had
likened her eyes. His hand shook and his heart leaped, and his soul cried out
for her; and all that he could say was:

"How do you do, Miss Selden!" He saddled White Ann, and over the hills they rode
together. Commonplaces passed between them until the wilderness enveloped them.
Then as they sat their horses and gazed down a precipitous slope to the river,
she asked:

"Just why have you kept away from us all these weeks?" He reddened. "I'll tell
you frankly," he said: "I was a fool. I was moping because you had not ridden to
see me. You had come so often before. And I woke up only today. Today for the
first time I realized that, since Old Man Selden has opened his door to me, it
is my place to go to you." "Of course," she said demurely. He cleared his throat
uncomfortably. "Some time ago," he told her, "I realized that you sought me out
in the first place for a purpose." He paused, and the look he cast at her was
eager, though guarded carefully. "Yes?" she questioned. "Yes," he went on. "I
realized that. And also that you _continued_ to come because that purpose was
not yet fulfilled, and because conditions made it necessary for you to look me
up." "Yes, I understand--" as he had come to a stop, rather helplessly. "Well,
just that," he floundered. "And then Selden changed his tactics, and I could go
to you. So you--you didn't come to me any more." "Fairly well elucidated," she
laughed, "if repetition makes for clearness. Well, you understand now--so let's
forget it." "I want you to understand that it wasn't because I didn't wish to
come. It was just thick-headedness." "So you have said. Yes, I understand." The
gaze of her black eyes was far away--far away over the deep, rugged canyon, over
the hills that climbed shelf after shelf to the mystic snow-topped mountains,
far away into a country that is not of the earth earthy. Under her drab flannel
shirt her full bosom rose and fell with the regularity of her perfect breathing.
Her man's hat lay over her saddle horn. Like some reigning goddess of the
wilderness she sat and overlooked the domain that was hers unchallenged; and the
profile of her brow, and the long, black, drooping lashes, tore at the heart-
strings of the man until he suffered. "I can't stand that!" he cried out in his
soul; and a pressure of the reins brought Poche close to White Ann's side.
"Jessamy!" said the man huskily. "Jessamy!" He could say no more, for his voice
failed him, and a haze swam before his eyes as when he had lost control of
himself on the hillside. "Jessamy!" he managed to cry again; and then, for lack
of words, he spread his arms out toward her. The black lashes flicked downward
once, but she did not turn her face to him. The colour deepened in her throat
and mounted to her cheeks, and her bosom rose and fell more rapidly. Then slowly
she turned her face to his, and her level gaze searched him, unafraid. But not
for long this time. Down drooped the black lashes till they seemed to have been
drawn with pen and India ink on her smooth brown cheeks; and they screened a
light that caused his heart to bound with expectation that was half of hope. Her
red lips moved. "Wait!" she whispered. His arms fell to his sides. "You--you
won't hear me!" "No--not now." "You know what I'm trying so hard to say. It
means so much to me. It's hard for a man to say the one word which he knows will
make him or break him for all time to come. He'd rather--he'd rather just hope
on blindly, I guess, than to speak when he can't guess how the woman feels. Must
--must I say it--right out, Jessamy?" "No, my friend, don't say it." "Is there
anything that stands between us?" "Yes. But don't ask what." "Then you don't
love me!" Her red lips quivered. "I said for you to wait," she told him softly.
"Why should I wait? For what? I know myself. I'm grown. I know that I--"

"Don't!" she interrupted. "Wait!" And she leaned in the saddle and swung White
Ann away from him. "Let's ride back home," she said. "You'll stay to supper? The
moon will be bright for your ride home later. I'll make you a cherry pie!"
CHAPTER XXI

"WHEN WE MEET AGAIN!" It will be necessary to return to the day that Chuck
Allegan and Obed Pence met on the ridge beyond the Old Ivison Place, and rode
together to the hiding place of the Poison Oakers' moonshine still. Obed Pence
continued to lie prone in the mouth of the cave, while his close-set eyes
angrily watched the progress of Old Man Selden and his son Bolar through the
chaparral. As the continued crawling of the coming pair brought them nearer to
the retreat Obed Pence withdrew his lank figure into the shadowy cave; and he
and his companion endeavoured to appear innocent and unconcerned. Then when Old
Man Selden and the boy reached the opening and stood erect, Obed appeared at the
mouth again and greeted them with a matter-of-fact:

"Hello, there!" "Why, howdy, Obed," returned Adam Selden. "Didn't know ye was
here. Who's with ye?" "I reckon you see our horses down in Clinker Canyon,"
returned Obed in trouble-hunting tones. "And you know every horse between Red
Mountain an' the Gap." "Yea, me and Bolar thought we saw a couple o' animals
through the trees. But we hit the ground farther up the creekbed, and come in
slonchways. Thought maybe one o' the brutes was Chuck's." Obed Pence snorted
softly, but did not add more fuel to an argument along this line. "Me an' the
kid was packin' a sack o' salt on a burro down toward the river," Adam observed,
approaching the cave, "an' thought we'd belly up an' have a little smile. Cows
need salt. Hello there, Chuck!" --as the round, boyish face of Allegan shone
like a small moon from the dark interior. "Hello, Old Man!" replied the youth.
He was apprehensive over Pence's glowering silence, and, to hide his feelings,
quickly opened the spigot over a glass and passed the water-white drink to his
chief. Adam Selden sat down with it, and Bolar came into the cave and was also
given a drink by Chuck. "How early you gonta start the drive for the mountains
this year, Old Man?" asked the self-appointed host, nervously filling glasses
for himself and the glowering Pence, who stood with arms folded Napoleonlike
across his breast, scowlingly regarding the newcomers. "Well, grass's holdin'
out _muy bueno_," said Selden thoughtfully. "Late rains done it. I don't think
we'll have cause to move 'em any earlier than common. The filaree down in the
river bottom is--"

But here Napoleon broke his moody silence. "I got somethin' to talk about
outside o' grass," snapped Obed Pence. A tense stillness ensued, during which
Old

Man Selden deliberately drained his glass and passed it back to Chuck to be
refilled. "Well, Obed," he drawled lazily, "got anything important to say, just
say her." "Oh, I'll say her!" cried Pence, and tossed off his drink of burning
liquor by way of fortification. "Ain't been settin' here by that bar'l a mite
too long, have ye, Obed?--if I ain't too bold in askin'," was Selden's remark,
spoken in the tone which turneth away wrath. "No, I ain't been here too long,"
Pence told his captain. "And I'm glad you've come, Old Man. I want to talk to
you about this fella Drew, and the way things 'a' been a-goin'." "Shoot!"
invited the old man's booming voice. Obed came directly to the point. "Well, why
ain't we runnin' Drew out?" Old Man Selden balanced his glass on one peaked knee
while he reached into a pocket of his _chaparejos_ for a plug of tobacco. He was
deliberate as he replied:

"Well, Obed, I was waitin' a spell 'count of a little matter that's on my mind
just at present. I'd advise ye not to be worryin' about Drew. I'll tend to him
when it's the proper time." "Yes, you will!" sniffed Pence sarcastically. "But,
allowin' that you will, I want my booze in the meantime." "There's the bar'l,"
said Old Man Selden. "That ain't gonta last forever!" "Just so! But time she
gets low, we'll be makin' more ag'in. Time Drew's gone and we get water runnin'
from Sulphur Spring ag'in." "And I'm wantin' my profit from what we could sell,"
Pence added, unmollified. "I got no money, and won't have none till killin'
time, 'less the still's runnin'. 'Tain't worryin' you none. You got all you want
without makin' monkey rum. But it ain't like that with me. Why, we was makin'
five gallon a day--at twenty-five bucks a gallon! And now nary a drop. I need
the money." "Well, Obed, they's money all about ye," the old man boomed. "And
they's things that can be turned into money layin' 'round loose everywhere."
"And there's a county jail, too!" snapped Pence. "And also federal prisons,"
Adam added, nodding toward the still and the crude fermentation vats. "Rats!
Pro'bition sneaks ain't got me scared! But bustin' into somebody's store's a
different matter. And while we're talkin' about it, Old Man, I don't see as
you're so keen for a little job like that as you was some months ago." "Gettin'
old, Obed--gettin' old, as the fella says. Squirt another shot into her, Chuck."
He passed his glass again. "I'll leave all that to you kids in future, I'm
thinkin'." "But take your share, o' course," sneered Pence. "Oh, I reckon not,
Obed--I reckon not. I got enough to die on--that's all I need. Just putter
'round with a few critters for my remainin' years, then turn up my toes
peaceful-like. I'm gettin' old, Obed--just so!" There was another prolonged,
strained silence. Pence emptied his glass twice while it lasted, and his Dutch
courage grew apace. "Looky-here, Old Man," he said at last, "Le's get down to
tacks: You're double-crossin' us, an' we're dead onto it. For some reason you
don't wanta drive Drew outa Clinker Creek Canyon. It's got somethin' to do with
that fire dance. There's more in it for you if you leave Drew alone than if you
put a burr under his tail. That's all right so far's it goes. But you're tryin'
to hog it. You're squeezin' the rest o' the Poison Oakers out--all but your four
kids. Ed and Digger and Chuck here and Jey and me's left out in the cold. That's
what! And we don't like it, and ain't gonta stand for it. If there's more profit
in it to leave Drew alone, leave 'im alone. But le's all get our share o' this
big profit, like we always did." "Couple o' more shots and ye'll be weepin'
about her, Pencie," dryly observed old Adam. "Never mind that! I c'n handle my
booze. You come across." "I've known ye about thirteen year, Obed," said Adam in
tones dangerously purring, "and I've never heard ye talk to me thataway before.
I wouldn't now, if I was you." "And I've never seen you act like you're doin' in
those thirteen years!" cried Pence. "Before now there wasn't no need to bawl you
out. But you're turnin' crooked." Adam rose and placed an enormous hand on
Obed's shoulder. "Just so! Just so!" he purred. "Now, you ramble down an' get in
yer saddle an' ride on home, Pencie. Ye've had enough liquor for today. An' when
ye're sober we'll all talk about her. Just so! That's best. Go on now--yer
blood's hot!" Pence jerked his shoulder away and backed farther into the gloom
of the cave. Old Man Selden quickly moved so that his body was not silhouetted
against the light streaming in at the mouth. "I don't want none o' yer dam'
fatherly advice," growled Pence. "I just want a square deal. If there's a reason
why Drew oughta be left alone I want to know it. And I want to know it now!"
"Just so! Are ye really mad, now, Pencie?" "I am mad!" "_And_ sober?" "Yes,
sober. Shoot her out!" The eagle eyes of Old Man Selden were fixed intently on
the face showing from the gloom. Every muscle was tense, every faculty alert.
His beetling grey brows came down and hid his eyes from the younger man, but
those cold blue eyes saw everything. "Bein's ye're sober, Obed," the old man
drawled, "I'll be obliged to tell ye that no Poison Oaker ner any other man ever
talked to me like you been doin' and got away with it. Just so! And, bein's
ye're sober, I'll say that my business is my own, an' I'll keep her to myself
till I get ready to tell her. Furthermore, I'm still runnin' the Poison Oakers,
and what I say goes now same as a couple months ago. I know what's good for us
boys better'n any o' the rest o' ye, and I'm doin' it." "You're a dam' liar!"
shouted Pence. Old Man Selden's gun hand leaped to his hip. "Come a-shootin',
kid!" he bellowed. He whipped out his Colt, shot from the hip. The roar of his
big gun filled the cave. Screened by the smoke of it, Old Man Selden sprang
nimbly to the deeper shadows. There he crouched, his cavernous eyes peering out
through the dense, confined smoke like a lynx posing to spring upon a burrowing
gopher. Obed Pence had not been slow. He too had leaped the instant the old
man's hand dropped to his holster. He had ducked into deeper shadows still, and
had not been hit. Now he fired through the smoke wreaths in the direction he
supposed the old man had darted. A report from Adam's gun roared on the heels of
his own, and rocks and earth rattled down a foot from his shoulder. The cave
extended to right and to left of the opening. Each of the fighters was hidden by
the darkness of his particular end, and now the smoke of the three shots hung in
a heavy blanket between them directly opposite the door. Under cover of this
Chuck and Bolar, sprawling flat, had wriggled frantically out of the cave. Each
from his own nook, the belligerents leaned cautiously forward, guns ready,
breath held in, and tried to pierce the rack of smoke and the obscurity of the
other's hiding place. It seemed to the younger men, gazing in, that the
situation meant a deadlock. Neither gunman could see the other, and, with no
breath of air stirring in the cave, the smoke lay between them like a solid
wall. Five minutes passed without a sound inside. Then Bolar drew nearer to the
cave and shouted in:

"What you gonta do? Neither o' you c'n see the other. You can't shoot. What you
gonta do?" Complete silence answered him. Then he realized that neither his
father nor Obed Pence would dare to speak lest the sound of his voice reveal his
whereabouts and call forth a shot from the other end of the cave. "You got to
give it up for now!" he shouted in again. "I'll count one-two-three; and when I
say three, both o' ye throw yer guns in front o' the mouth. I'll ask if ye'll do
this. Both o' you answer at once. Ready!... Will you?" "Yes," came the smothered
replies of both men in the cave. "All right now. Get ready! One ... two ...
_three_!" At the word "three" two heavy-calibre Colts clattered on the dirt
floor before the entrance and lay not a foot apart, proving that there was a
recognized code of honour among the Poison Oakers. Bolar stooped and entered,
gathering them in his hands. "All set," he announced. "Come out an' begin all
over ag'in." Old Man Selden was the first to come out. Pence quickly followed
him. Bolar had emptied both weapons of cartridges, and now he silently passed
each his gun. "What'll it be, Pencie?" asked Old Man Selden, bending his fiery
glance on his dark, slim enemy. "Shall we draw when we meet ag'in, er forget it
entirely--or see who c'n load an' shoot quickest right here an' now?" "It's up
to you, Old Man." "Forget it," advised Bolar. "For now, anyway." "Shall we go
our ways now, an' draw when we come together ag'in?" It was Old Adam's question.
"Why can't you come across an' do the square thing now?" Pence growled. "Then
ever'thing's settled." "Just so! But y're answerin' my question with another'n.
Do we draw when we meet ag'in?" "You won't be square?" "I'll tell ye nothin'. Ye
called me a dam' liar, so you couldn't believe it if I had anything to say to
ye." Pence shrugged indifferently and turned away. "When we meet ag'in," he said
lightly. "Just so!" drawled Old Man Selden. "Just so!" CHAPTER XXII

THE WATCHMAN OF THE DEAD

Oliver Drew knew that the Mona Fiesta would be held by the Showut Poche-dakas
when the July moon was full. The Mona Fiesta was the tribal "Feast of the Dead."
It was purely an Indian rite, unmixed with any ceremonies incident to the feast
days of the Catholic saints, as were most other celebrations. Consequently,
while the whites were not definitely prohibited from being spectators, they were
not invited to attend. They often went out of curiosity, Oliver had been told by
Jessamy, but always they observed from a respectful distance and went unnoticed
by the worshippers. The underlying principle of the Feast of the Dead was
ancestor worship, in which all of the Pauba Tribes were particularly devout.
Jessamy told Oliver that she had witnessed the ceremony once from a distance,
but that, as it occurred at night, she had seen little of what was taking place.
Oliver had wondered that he had received no message from old Chupurosa
Hatchinguish after the night of the fire dance. He was now a member of the
tribe, he supposed, but all actual contact with his new-found brethren seemed to
have ceased when he rode away from the fiesta. The mystery of why he was in this
country hung on his connection with the Showut Poche-dakas. He was impatient to
get in closer touch with the wrinkled old chief and bring matters to a head. And
now another feast day was close at hand. In two more nights a full moon would
shower its radiance over the land of the Poison Oakers. He had received no word,
no intimation that he would be wanted at the reservation for the Mona Fiesta.
Whites were excluded, he knew; but, then, he was now a brother of the Showut
Poche-dakas, and he hoped against hope that he would be commanded to appear. But
the two intervening days went by, and the evening of the celebration was at
hand, with no one having arrived to bid him come. He was seated on his little
porch that evening, listening to the night sounds of chaparral and forest, as
the moon edged its big round face over the hill and smiled at him. He was
thinking half of Jessamy, half of an article that he had planned to write. Two
fair-sized checks for previous work had reached him that week, and he was
beginning to have visions of a future. In a pine tree close at hand an owl
asked: "Who? Who? Who--o-o-o?" in doleful tones. From a distant hilltop came the
derisive, outlaw laughter of coyotes. A big toad hopped on the porch, blinked at
the man in the moonlight, and then started ponderously for his door. Oliver rose
and with his foot turned him twice, but the toad corrected his course
immediately and seemed determined to enter the house willy-nilly. "But I don't
want you in there," Oliver protested boyishly. "I might step on you in the dark,
or accidentally put my hand on your old cold back." He closed the door, and the
toad hopped on the threshold, as if resolved to await his chance for a strategic
entrance. "All right," said Oliver. "Sit there! When I'm ready to go in I'll
climb through a window. You are not going into that house!" He laughed at
himself. His was a lonesome life when he was not with Jessamy; and, always a
lover of every living thing that God has created, he had made friends with the
wild life that moved about his cabin, so that toads and lizards, birds and
squirrels looked to him for food and had no fear of him. He sat puffing at his
pipe and giving the obstinate toad blink for blink, when there came to his ears
strange sounds from up the lonely canyon. At first he imagined they were made by
roving cattle, then he recognized the ring of shod hoofs on the stones in the
trail. Then voices. And presently he knew that many horsemen were riding toward
the cabin--a veritable cavalcade. He rose from his chair and stood listening,
not without a feeling of apprehension. As the concerted thudding of many hoofs
drew closer and closer he ran into the cabin and strapped on his six-shooter. He
had been at a complete loss to interpret Old Man Selden's later attitude toward
him, and was wary of a trap. The sounds he heard could mean nothing to him
except that the Poison Oakers were at last riding upon him to begin their raid.
Suddenly from the other direction came the clattering hoofbeats of a single
galloping horse. Silvery under the magic light of the moon, a white horse burst
into view, galloping over a little rise to the south. It carried a rider. Now
came a familiar "Who-hoo!" And Jessamy Selden soon was bending from her saddle
at the cabin door. "Thank goodness, I'm in time!" she said. "I didn't know when
they would start, and I waited too long." "What in the mischief are you doing in
the saddle this time of night?" he demanded. "Oh, that's nothing! I get out of
bed sometimes and saddle up for a moonlight ride. I love it." "But--"

"Here they come! I wanted to get here ahead of them and warn you to pretend you
were expecting them. You're--you're supposed to know." "I'm supposed to know
what?" "About the Mona Fiesta. It's to be observed here on the Old Ivison Place.
It always is. And--and you're supposed to know it." "How explicit you aren't!
Well, what--"

"Sh! There they are! I can't explain now." Oliver's thoughts were moving
swiftly, and he did not put them aside even when he saw his gate being opened to
a large company of horsemen. "I've got you," he said. "Your little attempt at
subterfuge has failed again. Those are the Showut Poche-dakas coming?" She
nodded in her slow, emphatic manner. "Uh-huh! I see. And you might have told me
many days ago that they would come. And if that isn't so, you could have got
here much earlier tonight to warn me in time. But that would have given me an
opportunity to question you, and this you didn't want. So you waited till they
were almost upon me, then made a Sheridan dash to warn me, when there would be
no time to answer embarrassing questions. Pretty clever, sister! But you see I'm
dead on to your little game." Her laugh was as near to a giggle as he had ever
heard from her. "You're a master analyst," she praised. "I'll 'fess up. It's
just as you say. You know my nature makes it necessary for me to dodge direct
issues, where your mystery is concerned. But they're right on us--go out and
meet 'em." "You'll wait?" "Sure." The foremost riders of the long cavalcade were
now abreast the cabin, and Oliver Drew stepped toward them as they halted their
ponies. The strong light of the full moon was sufficient to reveal the wrinkled-
leather skin of old Chupurosa Hatchinguish, who rode in the lead, sitting his
blanketed horse as straight as a buck of twenty years. Oliver reached him and
held out a hand. "Welcome to the Hummingbird," he said in Spanish. "Greetings,"
returned the old man, solemnly taking the offered hand. "The July moon is in the
full, brother, and I have brought the Showut Poche-dakas for the yearly Mona
Fiesta to the spot where our fathers worshipped since a time when no man can
remember." "Thou art welcome," said Oliver again, entirely lost as to just what
was expected of him. Chupurosa left the blanket which he used as a saddle. It
was the signal for all to dismount, and like a troop of cavalry the Showut
Poche-dakas left their horses. They tied them to fenceposts and trees out of
respect for the landowner's rights in the matter of grass. "Is all in
readiness?" asked the ancient chief. "Er--" Oliver paused. A hand gripped his
arm. "Yes," Jessamy's voice breathed in his ear. "All is in readiness," said
Oliver promptly. Jessamy then stepped forward and offered her hand to Chupurosa.
"Hello, my Hummingbird!" she caroled mischievously in English. "The light of the
moon takes nothing from the Senorita's loveliness," said the old man gallantly.
By this time the Showut Poche-dakas had formed a semicircle before the cabin.
"Let us proceed to the Mona Fiesta," said Chupurosa. "Let the son of Dan Smeed
lead the way." Over this strange new designation Oliver was given no time for
thought; for instantly Jessamy laid a firm grip above his elbow and led him to
the pasture gate. The Showut Poche-dakas followed at the heels of Jessamy's
mare. "Don't worry," the girl whispered into Oliver's ear. "Nothing much will be
required of you. Just try to appear as if you know all about it, and had
attended to the preliminaries yourself." "Yes, yes," said Oliver dazedly, his
mind now in a whirl. She led him across the pasture in the direction from which
she had ridden so unexpectedly to the cabin. They reached a little _arroyo_, and
down it they turned to the creekbed. They crossed the watercourse and turned
down it. Presently they entered a cluster of pines and spruce trees, which was
close to what Oliver called The Four Pools. In succession, four deep depressions
in the bedrock of the creekbed were ranged, and each held clear, cool water, fed
by an undiscovered spring, though the creek proper was now entirely dry. In the
bedrock about these pools Oliver had previously noted several round holes the
size of a half-bushel measure. These were _morteros_, he knew--the mortars in
which the California Indians pound acorns in the making of the dish _bellota_.
He had often speculated on the probable antiquity of these _morteros_, and had
dreamed of early-day scenes enacted there and about them. There was a circular
open space in the midst of the tall, whispering trees. Just above this spot, up
the steep hillside, he had lain in the prospect hole and watched Digger Foss
spying on the cabin down below, while Tommy My-Ma hid under the brush and spied
on him. Into the open space in the trees the fearless girl led the way, and
there in the centre of it the moonlight streaming through the branches revealed
a huge pile of brush and wood, arranged as if for a great fire. She pressed his
arm, and they came to a halt. Behind them the Showut Poche-dakas halted. To
Oliver's side stepped Chupurosa, and spoke in the tongue of the Paubas to a man
at his right hand. This man stepped to the pile of brush and wood and fired it.
As the flames leaped up and licked at the sun-dried fuel the Indians closed in,
and now the light of the fire showed Oliver that there were women among their
number. At the edge of the trees they formed a circle about the fire, then all
of them save Chupurosa squatted on the ground. And now the firelight brought
something else to view. It was nothing more mysterious than a wooden drygoods
box at the foot of one of the pines, and beside it stood a large red earthen
_olla_. What these held Oliver could not see. He was puzzling over the fact that
these simple arrangements had been made on his land while he sat on his porch
two hundred yards away and smoked, for he had passed this spot early that
evening and it had been as usual then. The dark-skinned men and women squatted
there silently about the fire, their serious black eyes blinking into it. There
was something pathetic about it all. They were always so serious, so intent, so
devout; and their poor, ragged clothes and bare feet were so evident. "Join the
circle," whispered Jessamy. Oliver obeyed. Then Jessamy stepped to Chupurosa,
who had been gazing at her silently. "Good-night, my Hummingbird," she said, and
smiled at him. An answering smile lighted the withered features, and once more
the old man took the girl's slim hand in his. He dropped it. She turned and
vaulted into her saddle. The mare leaped away over the moonlit pasture. For a
time the thudety-thud of her galloping hoofs floated back, and then came
silence. Amid a continuation of this stillness Chupurosa stepped close to the
fire, now leaping high, and stretched forth his brown, wrinkled hands. He threw
back his head and began speaking softly, directing his voice aloft. Not a word
of what he said was known to Oliver. Gradually his voice rose, and his tones
were guttural, growling. His body swayed from right to left, but he kept his
withered hands outstretched. Presently tears began trickling down his cheeks,
but he continued his prayer, or address, or invocation, his tears unheeded. Now
one by one his silent listeners began to weep. They wept silently, and, but for
their tears, Oliver would not have realized their deep emotion. Sometimes they
rocked from side to side, but always they maintained silence and kept their
tear-dimmed eyes focused on the speaker. Abruptly Chupurosa came to a full stop,
backed from the fire, and squatted on the ground inside the circle. No applause,
not a word, no sign of any nature followed the cessation of his harangue. Now
two young Indians led forth an old, old man. Each of them held one of his arms.
He was stooped and trembly, and his feet dragged pitiably; and as he neared the
fire Oliver saw that he was totally blind. Never before in his life had the
white man seen age so plainly stamped on human countenance. Oliver had thought
Chupurosa old, but he appeared as a man in the prime of life in comparison with
this blind patriarch. His long hair was white as snow, and this in itself was a
mark of antiquity seldom seen in the race. It was not until long afterward that
Oliver found out that this man was a notable among the Pauba Tribes, Maquaquish
by name--the oldest man among them, a seer, counsellor, and medicine man whose
prophesies and prognostications were forceful in the regulation of a great
portion of the Paubas' lives. He was bareheaded, barefooted, and wore only blue
overalls, a cloth girdle, and a coarse yellow shirt. When at a comfortable
distance from the fire the trio came to a stop. The two conductors of the
pathetic blind figure knelt promptly on one knee, one on each side of him. With
their bent knees touching behind him, they gently lowered him until he found the
seat which their sinewy thighs had made for him. There was a few moments'
silence, and then he lifted his trembling hands and began to speak. Oliver
carried no watch, and would not have had the discourtesy to consult it if he
had; but he believed that Maquaquish spoke for two solid hours without pause.
And all this time the two who upheld him on their knees and steadied him with
their hands seemed not to move a muscle. And not a sound came from the audience
beyond an occasional uncontrollable sob. Maquaquish spoke in hushed tones that
blended strangely with the night sounds of the forest. His physical attitude and
his delivery were those of a story-teller rather than an orator or preacher; and
his listeners hung on every word, their black bead eyes fixed constantly on his
face. Oliver Drew was dreaming dreams. He would have given all that he had to be
able to interpret what Maquaquish was saying. What strange traditions was he
recalling to their minds? What hidden chapters in the bygone history of this
ancient race? Never was congregation more wrapped up in a speaker's words. Never
were religious zealots more devout. Strange thoughts filled the white man's
mind. He was roused from his dreaming with a start. Maquaquish had ceased
speaking, and a low chanting sounded about the fire. It grew in volume as the
blind man's escort led him back to his place in the circle. It grew louder,
weirder still, as the two who had aided the seer stepped to the drygoods box and
carried it between them past the fire. As they walked with it beyond the circle
every Indian rose to his feet and followed slowly. Oliver did likewise, not
knowing what else to do. On the brink of one of the pools the assemblage halted,
the firelight playing over them. From the box its custodians removed bolts of
cheap new calico cloth of many colours. Two of these they unwound, and laid
along the ground, leading away from the edge of the chosen pool. Then the two
slipped out of their clothes and stepped naked into the water to their waists,
where each laid hold of an end of a strip of calico and stood motionless. To the
edge of the moonlit pool stepped Chupurosa. He extended his hands over the water
and spoke a few sonorous words. As his hands came down the chanting broke out
anew, and now the men in the water began gathering in the strips of calico,
washing the cloth in the water as they reeled it to them. At last they finished.
The chanting ceased. The two nude men carried the dripping cloth from the water
in bundles. The assemblage filed back to the dying fire, all but the two who had
washed the cloth. When the Showut Poche-dakas were once more squatting in a
circle about the blaze, one of the two, now dressed, entered the circle with the
red _olla_ filled with water from the pool. This was passed from hand to hand
around the circle, and each one drank from it. When it came to Oliver he
solemnly acted his part, and passed the _olla_ to his left-hand neighbour. As
the _olla_ finished its round, into the circle danced the two who had washed the
cloth. In their arms they held bolts of dry cloth; and amid shouts and laughter
they threw them into the air, while the feminine element of the tribe clutched
up eagerly at them. When the last bolt of calico had been thrown and had been
captured and claimed by some delighted squaw, the assemblage, talking and
laughing in an everyday manner, left the Four Pools and started back to their
horses. The Mona Fiesta was over. Symbolically the clothes of the dead had been
washed. The Showut Poche-dakas had drunk of the water that had cleansed them.
And this was about all that Oliver Drew ever learned of the significance of the
ceremony. At the cabin Chupurosa waited on his horse until his tribesmen had all
ridden through the gate. Then he leaned over and spoke to Oliver. "When a year
has passed," he said, "and the same moon which we see tonight again looks down
upon us, the Showut Poche-dakas will once more wash the clothes of the dead and
drink of the water. I enjoin thee, Watchman of the Dead, to have all in
readiness once more, as thou hadst tonight. _Adios_, Watchman of the Dead!" And
he rode off slowly through the moonlight. CHAPTER XXIII

THE QUESTION

The morning following the Feast of the Dead, Oliver Drew rode Poche out of
Clinker Creek Canyon, driving Smith ahead of them, on the way to Halfmoon Flat
for supplies. Over the hills above the American River he saw a white horse
galloping toward him. This was to be a chance meeting with Jessamy. He had an
idea she would not be anxious to face him, after her attempted subterfuge of the
night before; so he slipped from the saddle, captured Smith, and led the two
animals back into the woods. Then he hurried to a tree on the outskirts and hid
behind it. On galloped White Ann, with the straight, sturdy figure in the
saddle. As they came closer Oliver knew by her face that Jessamy had not seen
him; and as they came abreast he stepped out quickly and shouted. Jessamy turned
red, reined in, and faced him, her lips twitching. "Good morning, my Star of
Destiny!" he said. A flutter of bafflement showed in her black lashes, but the
lips continued to twitch mischievously. "_Buenos dias_, Watchman of the Dead!"
she shot back at him. Oliver's eyes widened. "Got under your guard with that
one, eh, ol'-timer? Just so!--if you'll permit a Seldenism. Tit for tat, as the
fella says! Your move again." And then she threw back her head and laughed to
the skies above her. "Where are you going?" he asked. "Ridin'." "You weren't
headed for the Old Ivison Place." "No, not this morning. I was not seeking you.
But since I've met you, and the worst is over, I'll not avoid you." "Help me
pack a load of grub down the canyon; then I'll go 'ridin' with you." She nodded
assent. "I thought so," she observed, as he led Poche and Smith from hiding. "I
thought you'd turn back, or turn off, if you saw me here ahead of you," he made
confession. "I might have done that," she told him as they herded Smith into the
road and followed him. They said nothing more about what had taken place the
night before until the bags had been filled and diamond-hitched, and Smith was
rolling his pack from side to side on the homeward trail. Then Oliver asked
abruptly:

"Who laid that fire, and put the box of cloth and the _olla_ at The Four Pools
yesterday?" "Please, sir, I done it," she replied. "When?" "Just before I rode
to your cabin last evening." "Uh-huh!" he grunted, and fell silent again. At the
cabin she helped him throw off the diamond-hitch and unload the packbags. Then
the shaggy Smith was left to his own devices--much to his loudly voiced
disapproval--and Jessamy and Oliver rode off into the hills. "Which way?" he
asked as they topped the ridge. "Lime Rock," she replied. Tracing cow paths
single-file, they wound through and about chaparral patches and rocky canyons
till they reached the old trail that led to Lime Rock. Lime Rock upreared itself
on the lip of a thousand-foot precipice that overhung the river. It was three
hundred feet in height, a gigantic white pencil pointing toward the sky. At its
base was a small level space, large enough for a wagon and team to turn, but the
remainder of the land about and above it was hillside, too steep for cows to
climb. And from the edge of the level land the canyonside dropped straight
downward, a mass of craggy rocks and ill-nourished growth. The trail that led to
Lime Rock wound its way over a shelf four feet in width, hacked in the hillside.
One false step on this trail and details of what must inevitably ensue would be
hideous. Oliver led the way when they reached the beginning of the trail. Both
Poche and White Ann were mountain bred animals, sure-footed and unconcerned over
Nature's threatening eccentricities. For a quarter of a mile the bay and the
white threaded the narrow path, their riders silent. Then they came to Lime Rock
and the security of the level land about it. Here Oliver and Jessamy sat their
horses and gazed down the dizzy precipice at the rushing river, and up the
steep, rocky wall on the other side. "Do you know who owns the land on which our
horses are standing?" Jessamy finally asked. "I've never given it a thought,"
said Oliver. "It belongs to Damon Tamroy." "That so? I didn't know he owned
anything over this way." "Yes, Damon owns it. But I have an option on it." "You!
Have an option on it!" "Yes, a year's option. It was rather an underhanded trick
that I played on old Damon, but he's not very angry about it. It's my first
business venture. "You see, I learned through a letter from a girl friend in San
Francisco that a big cement company was thinking of invading this country. She
wrote it merely as a bit of entertaining news, but I looked at it differently.
"I knew where they'd begin their invasion. Right here! That magnificent monument
there is solid limestone, and the hills back of it are the same, though covered
by a thin layer of soil. So I went to the owner of the land, Damon Tamroy, and
got a year's option on it for twenty-five dollars--a hundred and sixty acres.
"How Damon laughed at me! I told him outright why I wanted to buy the land, if
ever I could scrape enough together. He didn't consider it very valuable, and it
may become mine any day this year that I can pungle up four hundred and seventy-
five bucks more. When he quizzed me, I told him frankly that I was doing it in
an effort to preserve Lime Rock for posterity, and he laughed louder than ever.
"But he changed his tune when a representative of the cement company approached
him with an offer of fifteen dollars an acre. He took his loss good-naturedly
enough, but accused me of putting over a slick little business deal on him. I
had done so, in a way, and admitted it; and ever since I've been talking myself
blue in the face when I meet him, trying to convince him that it's not the money
I'm after at all. "Think of an old hog of a cement company coming in here and
erecting a rumbling old plant, with the noon whistle deriding the reverential
calm of this magnificent canyon, and their old drills and dynamite and things
ripping Lime Rock from its throne! Bah! I'm going to San Francisco soon to get a
job. I may decide to go this week. It will keep me hustling to put away four
hundred and seventy-five dollars between now and the day my option expires."
Oliver sat looking gravely at the young idealist, suppressing his disappointment
over the possibility of her early departure. "But we have to have cement," he
pointed out. "Do we? Maybe so. But there's lots of limestone in the west. Men
don't need to search out such spots as this in which to get it. There are less
picturesque places, which will yield enough cement material for all our needs.
Sometimes I think these big money-grabbers just love to ruin Nature with their
old picks and powder. You may agree with me or not--I don't care. I'm not
utilitarian, and don't care who knows it. The world's against me in my big fight
to keep the money hogs from robbing life of all its poetry; but it's a fight to
the last ditch! I'll save Lime Rock, anyway, if I have to beg and borrow." "I
don't know that I disagree with you at all," he told her softly. "Money doesn't
mean a great deal to me. I've shed no idle tears over my failure to inherit the
money that I expected would be mine at Dad's death. I hold no ill will toward
Dad. There's too much wampum in the world today. It won't buy much. The more
people have the more they want. The so-called 'standard of living' continues to
rise, and with it the ills of our civilization steadily increase. Luxuries ruin
health. Automobiles make our muscles sluggish. Moving pictures clog our thinking
apparatus. Telephones make us lazy. Phonographs and piano-players reduce our
appreciation of the technique of music, which can come only by study and
practice. What flying machines will do to us remains to be seen, but they'll
never carry us to heaven! "No, money means little enough to me. Give me the big
outdoors and a regular horse, a keen zest in life, and true appreciation of
every creature and rock and tree and blade that God has created, and I'll
struggle along." As he talked the colour had been mounting to her face. When he
ceased she turned starry eyes upon him, her white teeth showing between slightly
parted lips. "Oliver Drew," she said, "you have made me very happy. I--"

A rush of blood throbbed suddenly at Oliver's temples, and once again he swung
his horse close to hers. "I'll try to make you happy always," he said low-
voiced. "Jessamy--" Again he opened his arms for her, but as before she drew
herself away from him. "Don't! Not--not now! Wait--Oliver!" "Wait! Always wait!
Why?" "I--I must tell you something first. I can tell you now--after--after last
night." "Then tell me quickly," he demanded. She rested both hands on her saddle
horn and rose in her stirrups. For a long time her black eyes gazed down the
precipice below them, while the wind whipped wisps of hair about her forehead.
Oliver waited, drunk with the thought of his nearness to her. "Watchman of the
Dead!" she murmured at last. Oliver started. "Two years ago," she went on
softly, "I met the second Watchman of the Dead. You are the third. The first was
murdered in this forest. His name was Bolivio, and he made silver-mounted
saddles and hair-tasseled bridles." Oliver scarce dared to breathe for fear of
breaking the spell that seemed to have come over her. She did not look at him.
She continued to gaze into her beloved canyon and at her beloved hills beyond.
"Oh, where shall I begin!" she cried at last. "Where is the beginning? A man
would begin at the first, I suppose, but a woman just can't! But I won't be true
to the feminine method and begin at the end. I won't be a copy-cat. I'll begin
in the middle, anyway." A smile flickered across her red lips; but still she
gazed away from him. "Two years ago," she said, "I met the dearest man." Oliver
straightened, and lumps shuttled at the hinges of his jaws. "I was riding White
Ann on one of my lonely wanderings through the woods. I met him on the ridge
above the Old Ivison Place and the river. "After that I met him many times, in
the forest and elsewhere; and the more I talked with him the more I liked him.
He was my idea of a man." Oliver, too, was now gazing into the canyon, but he
saw neither crags nor trees nor rushing green river. "And he grew to like me,"
her low tones continued. "We talked on many subjects, but mostly of what we've
been talking about today. "He was an idealist, this man. He was comparatively
wealthy, but there are things in life that he placed above money and its
accumulation. By and by he grew to like me more and more, and finally he told me
point blank that I was his ideal woman; and then he grew confidential and told
me all about himself--his past, present, and what he hoped for in the future.
And in my hands he placed a trust. Please God, I have tried to keep the faith!"
She threw back her head and followed the flight of an eagle soaring serenely
over Lime Rock. And with her eyes thus lifted she softly said:

"That man was Peter Drew--your father." Oliver's breast heaved, but he made no
sound. Once more her eyes were sweeping the abyss. "That's the middle," she
said. "Now I'll go back to the beginning and tell you what Peter Drew entrusted
to my keeping. "Thirty years ago Peter Drew, who then called himself Dan Smeed,
was the partner of Adam Selden. They mined and hunted and trapped together
throughout this country. "There were other activities, too, which I shall not
mention. You understand. Your father told me all about it, kept nothing back.
Remember that I said he was my idea of a man; and if in his youth he had been
wild and--well, seemed criminally inclined--I found that easy to forget.
Certainly the manliness and sacrifice of his later years wiped out all this a
thousand times. "Well, to proceed: Peter Drew and Adam Selden married Indian
girls. Peter Drew won out in the fire dance and became a member of the Showut
Poche-dakas. Adam Selden failed, and, according to the custom, took his wife
from the tribe and lived with her elsewhere. Six months afterward the wife of
Selden died. "Peter Drew, however, having become a recognized member of the
tribe, was taken into their full confidence. According to their simple belief,
he had conquered all obstacles that stood between him and this affiliation;
therefore the gods had ordained that full trust should be placed in him. And
with their beautiful faith and simplicity they did not question his honesty. So
according to an old, old tradition of the tribe the white man was appointed
Watchman of the Dead. "I know little of this story. All of the traditions of the
Showut Poche-dakas are clouded, so far as our interpretation of them goes. But
it appears, from what your father told me, that ages ago a white-skinned chief
had been Watchman of the Dead. Mercy knows where he came from, for, so far as
history goes, the whites had not then invaded the country. But after him,
whenever a white-skinned man conquered the evil spirits of the fire and became a
member, he was appointed Watchman of the Dead. So in the natural order of things
the honour came to Peter Drew. "Up to this time the only other Watchman of the
Dead remembered by even old Maquaquish and Chupurosa was the man called Bolivio.
Holding this simple office, it seems that Bolivio had stumbled upon the secret
so jealously guarded by the Showut Poche-dakas. He tried to turn this secret
information to his own advantage, and in so doing he broke faith with the tribe
that had adopted him as a brother. Found dead in the forest with a knife in his
heart, is the abrupt climax of his tale of treachery. And so the tradition of
the lost mine of Bolivio had its birth. "Centuries ago, no doubt, the Showut
Poche-dakas discovered the spodumene gems which were responsible for the fiction
concerning the lost mine of Bolivio. They polished them crudely and worshipped
them. Spodumene gems always are found in pockets in the rock, and they are
always hidden in wet clay in these pockets. Solid stone will be all about them,
with no trace of disintegrated matter, until a pocket is struck. Therein will be
found separate stones of varying sizes, always sealed in a natural vacuum, which
in some way forever retains moisture in the clay. "This peculiarity appealed to
the superstitious natures of the Showut Poche-dakas. It is their age-old custom
to bury their dead in pockets hacked in cliffs of solid stones, sealing them
with a cement of clay and pulverized granite. One can readily see how the
discovery of these beautiful gems, sealed in pockets as they sealed their dead,
might affect them. They determined that the glittering stones represented the
bodies of their ancestors, and from that time on the lilac-tinted gems became
something to be worshipped and guarded faithfully. "Doubtless when Bolivio was
appointed Watchman of the Dead he was told this secret, and learned where the
stones were to be found. He got some of them, and sent them East to find out
whether they were valuable. He polished two, and placed them in bridle
_conchas_. Then before word came from New York the Indians stabbed him for his
deceit. "His elaborate equestrian outfit remained with the tribe, and your
father acquired it when he became Watchman of the Dead. For some reason unknown
to him, the stones were allowed to remain in the _conchas_; and he told me that
he always imagined them to be a symbol of his office. Anyway, you, Oliver Drew,
are the Watchman of the Dead, and your right to own and use that gem-mounted
bridle goes unchallenged by the Showut Poche-dakas." She paused reflectively.
"All this your father told me," she presently continued. "He told me, too, that
the secret place where the gems are to be found is on the Old Ivison Place. It
was unclaimed land then, and your father camped there with his Indian wife, as
was demanded of the Watchman of the Dead. Before his time, Bolivio had camped
there. Later, Old Man Ivison homesteaded the place, knowing nothing of its
strange history. He was a kindly old man, liked by everybody; and each year he
allowed the Indians to hold their Mona Fiesta at The Four Pools. Though he had
no idea why they held it in this exact spot each time--that up the slope above
them was a hidden treasure that would have made the struggling homesteader rich
for life. "Then your father told me the worst part of it all. He and Selden, it
seems, had found out more of the story of Bolivio than is to be unravelled
today, with most of the old-timers dead and gone and the Indians always
closemouthed. Anyway, they two found out about the secret gems and the
significance of the fire dance. So they had planned deliberately to marry Indian
girls to further their knowledge of this matter. "It was understood between them
that Adam Selden would intentionally fail to win out in the fire dance, and that
Peter Drew, who was a Hercules for endurance and strength, would win if he
could, and thus become Watchman of the Dead and learn the whereabouts of the
brilliants. This scheme they carried out, and Peter Drew took up residence with
his brown-skinned bride on what is today the Old Ivison Place. "Then he redeemed
himself by falling in love with his wife. In time he found out where the gem
pockets were situated. But when Selden came to him to see if he'd stumbled on to
the secret, he put him off and said, 'Not yet.' "From the date of the Fiesta de
Santa Maria de Refugio until the night of the Mona Fiesta he remained undecided
what to do. Somehow or other, he told me, though he had been a highwayman and
was then protected from the flimsy law of that day only by his Indian brothers,
he could not bring himself to break faith with them. "Then came the night of the
first Mona Fiesta since he became Watchman of the Dead; and that night
temporarily decided him. "When he squatted in the circle about the fire and saw
the rapt, tear-stained, brown faces of these people who had placed absolute
faith in him, he fell under the spell of their simplicity, and swore that so
long as he lived he would not betray their trust. "And he lived up to it, with
his partner, Adam Selden importuning him daily to get the stones and skip the
country. And finally to be rid of Selden and the double game he was obliged to
play, Peter Drew left with his wife one night and did not return for fifteen
years. "And since then there has been no Watchman of the Dead until the night
you defeated the evil spirits in the fire dance. "Out in the world of white men
Peter Drew settled down to ranching. His Indian wife had died two years after he
left this country. With her gone, and the new order of things all about him, he
began to wonder if he had not been a fool. "Up here in the lonesome hills was
wealth untold, so far as he knew, and he renounced it for an ideal. To secure
those gems he had only to show ingratitude to the Showut Poche-dakas, had only
to break faith with a handful of ignorant, simple-minded Indians. What did they
and their ridiculous beliefs amount to in this great scheme of life as he now
saw it? Each day men on every hand were breaking faith to become wealthy, were
trampling traditions and ideals underfoot to gain their golden ends. Business
was business--money was money! Had he not been a fool? Was he not still a fool--
to renounce a fortune that was his for the taking? "He called himself an
ignorant man. He told himself--and truly, too--that countless men whom he knew,
who had read a thousand books to one merely opened by him--men of education, men
of affairs--would laugh at him, and themselves would have wrested the treasure
from its hiding place without a qualm of conscience. Civilization was stalking
on in its unconquerable march. Should a handful of uncouth Indians, a
superstitious, dwindling tribe of near-savages, be permitted to handicap his
part in this triumphal march? No--never! "But always, when he made ready to
return to the scenes of his young manhood, there came before him the picture of
brown, tear-stained faces about a fire, and of an old blind man speaking softly
as if telling a story to eager children. Highwayman Peter Drew had been, but
never in his life had he broken faith with a friend. Loyalty was the very
backbone of my idealist, and he turned away from temptation and doggedly
followed his plough. "For thirty years and more the question faced him. Should
he get the gems and be wealthy, and break faith with those who had entrusted him
with the greatest thing in their lives--these people who had called him brother,
whose last remnant of food or shelter was his for the asking? Or should he
remain an idealist, a poor man, but loyal to his trust? The answer was No or
Yes! "Can't your imagination place you in his shoes? Unlettered, not sure of
himself, ashamed of what he doubtless termed his chicken-heartedness. Don't you
know that all of us are constantly ashamed of our secret ideals--ashamed of the
best that is in us? We fear the ridicule of coarser minds, and hide what is
Godlike in our hearts. And on top of this, your father was ignorant, according
to present day standards, and knew it. But for thirty years, Oliver Drew, he
prospered while his idealism fought the battle against the lust for wealth.
Idealism won, but Peter Drew died not knowing whether he had been a wise man or
a fool. He died a conqueror. Give us more of such ignorance! "And he educated
you, left you penniless, and placed his momentous question in your keeping.
"Fifteen years ago he bought the Old Ivison Place, though the Indians do not
know it. Adam Selden has searched for the gems without result ever since Peter
Drew left the country; and it was because of him that your father kept his
purchase a secret. Two years ago, while you were in France, Peter Drew came
here, met me and liked me, and told me all that I have told you. "He knew that
when you rode into this country with the saddle and bridle of Bolivio that the
Showut Poche-dakas would know who you were, and would take you in and make you
Watchman of the Dead. Peter Drew wanted you to be penniless, as he had been when
he first faced the question. He gave me money with which to help along the
cause. So far I've only had to use it for liquid courtplaster, an _olla_, and a
few bolts of calico. You were to learn nothing of the story from my lips. You
were to face the question blindly, with no other influences about you save those
that he had experienced. "I have done my best to carry out his wishes. You are
the Watchman of the Dead. You own the land on which the treasure lies. You are
brother of the Showut Poche-dakas. The treasure is yours almost for the lifting
of a hand. You are almost penniless. "There's your question, Oliver Drew. Say
Yes and the gems are yours. Say No, and you have forty acres of almost worthless
land, a saddle horse and outfit, and youth and health, and the lifetime office
of Watchman of the Dead!" She ceased speaking. There were tears in her great
black eyes as she looked at him levelly. "But--but--" Oliver floundered. "I
don't know where the gems are. Selden has hunted them for thirty years, and has
failed to find them. I've seen many evidences of his search. Will the Showut
Poche-dakas tell me where they are?" "Your father thought that perhaps, after
what has passed in connection with former Watchmen of the Dead, you might not be
told the exact location. So he made provision for that." She reached in her
bosom and handed him an envelope sealed with wax. On it he read in his father's
hand:

"Map showing exact location of what is known as the lost mine of Bolivio." "If
you open it," she said, "your answer probably will be No, and you become owner
of the gems. If you destroy it unopened, your answer is Yes, and you are a poor
man. Yes or No, Oliver Drew? Think over it tonight, and I'll meet you here
tomorrow at noon." "What do _you_ want my answer to be?" he asked. "I have no
right to express my wishes in the matter," she said. "And your answer is not to
be told to me, you must remember, but to your father's lawyers." Then she turned
White Ann into the narrow trail that led from Lime Rock. CHAPTER XXIV

IN THE DEER PATH

The morning following the trip to Lime Rock, Oliver Drew sat at his little home-
made desk, his mind not on the work before him. Tilted against the ink bottle
stood the long, tough envelope that Jessamy had given him, its black-wax seals
still unbroken. He stared at it with unseeing eyes. After they had left Lime
Rock, Jessamy had given him a little more information on the subject which now
loomed so big in his life. She thought, she had said, that for years the Showut
Poche-dakas had suspected Old Man Selden of knowing something of their secret.
They could not have missed seeing the gophering that the old man had done on the
hillside above The Four Pools. She knew positively that the Indians had kept a
watchful eye on him, and it could be for no other reason. The episode concerning
Oliver's bayonet wound had come as a complete surprise to her. It seemed now,
she said, that Peter Drew had communicated with Chupurosa not long before his
death, and after Oliver's return from France, and had told him to be prepared
for the coming of his son and how to make sure that he was genuine. She had not
known that Peter Drew had been in the Poison Oak Country again, since he left
after entrusting her with a hand in guiding Oliver's future. She told of having
overheard Adam Selden and Oliver's conversation that night at Poison Oak Ranch,
and of the other eavesdropper who had stolen down from the spring. She was
almost sure, she told him, that this man was Digger Foss; but whether or not
Foss knew of the treasure she could not determine. Apparently, though, he
suspected something of the kind, and had been looking out for his own interests
that night. Yes, it was the bridle and saddle and the gem-mounted _conchas_ that
had changed Selden's attitude toward Oliver. The underlying reason for his
wishing Oliver off the Old Ivison Place had been the fear that the search for
the gems, which he had carried on intermittently for so long, would be
interrupted. But to his gang he had pretended that it was sheer deviltry that
caused him to contemplate driving the newcomer out. Then a sight of the gem-
mounted _conchas_ of his old partner, and the fact that Oliver was at once taken
into brotherhood by the Showut Poche-dakas changed his plans. Oliver knew of the
gems and had come to seek them. He either was Dan Smeed's son, or had been taken
into Dan Smeed's confidence. Oliver would become Watchman of the Dead. If he did
not already know the location of the stones, he soon might learn it from the
Indians. His friendship must be cultivated by all means, so that Selden might
have the better chance of obtaining what he considered his rightful share of the
treasure. Oliver had then told Jessamy of the prospect holes on the hillside, of
Digger Foss's spying on the cabin, of Tommy My-Ma's strange actions, and of the
lithia he had found. "Yes, lithia is an indication of gems," she had told him.
"And it would appear that Digger knows of the treasure, after all. Perhaps
sometime Selden confided in him in a careless moment, to enlist his aid in the
search. They're pretty confidential. Digger was watching your movements, to see
if you had any definite idea of the location of the stones or were searching for
them blindly. That's it! He knows! But still he's suspicious of Old Man Selden.
All of the Poison Oakers are now. They think he's double-crossing them some way,
since he made friends with you. "As for Tommy My-Ma trailing Digger, I'm not
surprised. No doubt the Showut Poche-dakas are watching Old Man Selden and his
gang as respects their attitude toward the new Watchman of the Dead. If the
Poison Oakers had tried actually to molest you, I have an idea they'd have found
they'd bitten off a chunk. I think they would have had fifty Showut Poche-dakas
on their backs before they had gone very far." All this passed through Oliver's
mind again and again this morning, as he sat there with pipe gone out and idle
pencil in his fingers. What a romance that old father had woven about the life
of his son! How skilfully and craftily he had planned so that Oliver would be
thrown on his own resources for an answer when he came face to face with the
question! How cleverly Jessamy had carried out the part entrusted to her,
despite her aversion to intrigues and plottings! Step by step she had led him on
till at last the question confronted him, just as it had confronted his father
before him. To gain possession of the gems would be a simple matter. They were
on his land somewhere--were his by every right in law. He had but to invoke the
protection of the keepers of the peace against the Indians, break the seals of
the long envelope, and dig in the place indicated by the map this envelope
contained. But there was one thing which doubtless Peter Drew had not foreseen
in his careful planning. He could not have known that his son was to fall
desperately in love with the guiding star that he had appointed for him. And
Oliver Drew knew in his heart that if he robbed the Indians of these gems, which
were to them only a symbol and had no meaning connected with worldly wealth, he
would lose the girl. The only thing that stood between Jessamy and him, he now
believed, was her uncertainty of what his answer to the question would be. In
her staunch heart she respected the belief of the Showut Poche-dakas, and to her
the gems as a symbol were as worthy of her reverence as the Sacred Book of the
Christians. "I have as much reverence for a bareheaded Indian girl on her knees
to the Sun God as for a hooded nun counting her beads," she had said. Oliver
stared at the inside of the cabin door, scarred and carved and full of bullet
holes--at JESSAMY, MY SWEETHEART. Peter Drew could not have foreseen this phase
of the situation. In securing the gems Oliver Drew not only would lose his self-
respect and make his father's thirty years of sacrifice a mockery, but he would
lose the girl he loved. So Oliver took small credit to himself when he rose from
his desk at eleven o'clock, his mind made up. He placed the letter unopened in
his shirt front, and went out and saddled Poche. Then he rode to the backbone
and wormed his way along it toward Lime Rock. Jessamy was there ahead of him,
sitting erect on White Ann's back, gazing upon the rugged objects of her daily
adoration. "Well," she said, "you've come," and her level eyes searched him
through and through. "Yes," he replied, riding to her side, "I've come; and my
mind's made up." She raised her dark brows in an attempt to betoken a mild
struggle between politeness and indifference; but the hand on her saddle horn
trembled, and the red had gone out of her cheeks. "I must get out of here
tomorrow," he said, "and go to Los Angeles. I've just about enough money to take
me there and back; but I have the unbounded faith of an amateur in several farm
articles now in editors' hands." She lowered black lashes over her eyes and
nodded slowly up and down. "Exactly," she said. "You must carry out Peter Drew's
instructions to the letter." "But I can tell _you_ what my answer to Dad's
lawyers is going to be. I--"

"Don't!" she cried, raising a protesting hand. "Not a word to me. My
responsibility ceased when I placed the envelope in your hands. I'm no longer
concerned in the matter. That is--" she hesitated. "Yes, go on." "Until after
you have made your report to the attorneys," she added. "Then, of course, I'll--
I'll be sort of curious to know what your answer is." "Then I'll come straight
back to tell you," he promised. "And--Why, what's the matter!" She had leaned
forward suddenly in her saddle, and with wide eyes was looking down the
precipice. Then before she could answer there came to Oliver's hearing the sound
of a distant shot from the canyon. Now he saw a puff of white smoke above the
willows on the river bank, a thousand feet below them. Then a second, and by and
by another ringing report reached them, and the echoes of it went loping from
wall to wall of the canyon. "Merciful heavens!" cried Jessamy. "It's Old Man
Selden! He's shot! Look at him reel in his saddle! Oh, horrors!... There he goes
down on the ground!... But he's not killed! There--he's on his feet and
shooting!" Oliver, with open mouth, was staring down at the tragedy that had
suddenly been staged for them in the river bed. Now several puffs of white smoke
hung over the trees, and riders rode hither and thither like pigmies on pigmy
horses. Now and then a stream of flame spurted horizontally, and at once another
answered it. Then up barked the reports, followed by their mocking echoes. "It's
come! It's come!" wailed Jessamy. "Obed Pence, likely as not, has opened fire on
Old Man Selden, and the boys are after him. Look--there's Chuck and Bolar and
Jay and Winthrop--and, oh, most all of them! It's a general fight. Oh, I knew it
would come! I knew it! Obed Pence has been so nasty of late. They were all drunk
last night. Poor mother! Oh, what shall we do, Oliver? What can we do? We can't
get down to them!" "And could do nothing if we did," he said tensely. Down below
six-shooters still popped, and the balls of smoke continued to grow in number
over the willows. Horsemen dashed madly about, shouting, firing. The two
watchers learned later that Obed Pence, supported by Muenster, Allegan, and
Buchanan--all drunk for two days on the fiery monkey rum--had lain in wait for
Old Man Selden, and Pence had ridden out and confronted him as he rode down the
river trail, supposedly alone. But the Selden boys for days had been hovering in
the background, to see that their father got a square deal when he and Obed
Pence next met. Pence and Adam Selden had drawn simultaneously; but the hammer
of the old man's Colt had caught in the fringe of his chaps, and Obed had shot
him through the left lung. Knowing their father to be a master gunman, his sons,
who had not been close enough to witness the encounter, had jumped to the
conclusion that Pence had fired from ambush. They charged in accordingly, and
opened fire on Pence, killing him instantly. Then Pence's supporters had ridden
forth in turn, and the general gun fight was on. "I can't sit here and see them
murdering one another!" Jessamy sobbed piteously. "They--they all may need
killing, but--but I've lived with the old man and the boys, and--and--My
mother!" The tears streamed down her cheeks as she made a trumpet of her hands
and shouted down the precipice:

"Stop it! Stop it at once, I say!" Only the echoes of her piercing cry made
answer, and she wrung her hands and beat her breast in anguish. "I'm going for
help!" she cried abruptly. "They'll get behind trees pretty soon, and fight from
cover. I'll ride to Halfmoon Flat for the constable and a posse to put a stop to
this. Can't--can't you ride up the trail and find a way down to them, Oliver?
Old Man Selden maybe will listen to you. Oh, maybe you can patch up peace
between them!" "I'll try," said Oliver grimly. She wheeled White Ann and entered
the narrow trail. Oliver followed. Recklessly she moved her mare at her rolling
singlefoot along the dangerous trail, and eventually came out on the hillside.
At once White Ann leaped forward and sped over the hills, a streak of silver in
the noonday sun. Oliver loped Poche to an obscure deer path that led down to the
river, and as swiftly as possible began negotiating it. He had not progressed
twenty yards when the chaparral before him suddenly parted, and Digger Foss
confronted him, his wicked Colt held waist-high and levelled. "Stick 'em up!" he
growled. "Be quick!" Thoroughly surprised, Oliver reined in, and Poche began to
dance. Mechanically Oliver raised his hands above his head, then almost
regretted that he had not tried to draw. But the picture of Henry Dodd reeling
against the legs of Jessamy's mare had been with him since his first day in the
Poison Oakers' country. He knew that the halfbreed's aim was sure, and that his
heart was a reservoir of venom. The first shock passed, his composure returned
in a measure. There stood the halfbreed, spread-legged in the path. The lids of
his Mongolic eyes were lowered, and the beads of jet glittered wickedly from
under them. He was drunk as a lord, Oliver knew quite well from the augmented
insolence of his cruel lips; but Oliver knew that he might be all the more
deadly, and that some drunken gunmen can shoot better than when sober. "What is
this?--a holdup?" he asked, and bit his lip as he noted the tremble in his
tones. "A holdup is right," said Foss. "A holdup, an' a little business matter
you and me's got to attend to." "Well, let's get at it!" Oliver snapped. "I'm
gonta kill you after our business is settled," Foss told him in a matter-of-fact
tone. A cold chill ran along Oliver's spine. Should he make a dive for his gun?
Foss had every advantage, but--

Foss was stepping lazily nearer, his eyes intent on the horseman, his six-
shooter ready. "Down there by the river they're fightin' it out all because o'
you buttin' into this country, where you ain't wanted." Foss had come to a stop,
and was leering up at him. "You've made trouble ever since you come here. Old
Man won't get rid o' you, but I'm goin' to today. But first, where's them gems?"
"I can't tell you," said Oliver. "You're a liar!" "Thank you. You have the
advantage of me, you know. Slip your gun in the holster, and then call me a
liar. I'll draw with you. My hands are up--you'll still have the advantage of
having your hand closer to your gun butt." "D'ye think you could draw with me?"
"I know it. And before you. Try it and see!" Foss studied over this. "Maybe--
maybe!" he said. "I never did throw down on a man without givin' 'im a chance.
But you got no chance with me, kid. They don't make 'em that can get the drop on
Digger Foss!" "I'll take a chance," said Oliver quietly. "We'll see about that
later. But where's them stones?" "I don't know, I tell you." "What did you come
up in this country for?" "On matters that concern me alone." "No doubt o' that--
or so you think. But they're interestin' to me, too. What's in that letter
Jess'my handed you at Lime Rock yesterday?" "Oh, you were sneaking about and saw
that, were you! Through your glasses, I suppose. Well, I haven't opened it, and
don't know what's in it. If I did I wouldn't tell you. My arms are growing a
little tired. Will you holster your gun and give me a chance before my arms play
out?" "I will if you come across with what you know about the gems. You might as
well. If I kill you, you won't be worryin' about gems. And if you croak me, why,
what if you did tell me?--I'm dead, ain't I?" "There's sound logic in that,"
said Oliver grimly. "I'll take you up. Put your gun in its holster and drop your
hands to your sides. Then we'll draw, with your gun hand three feet nearer your
gun than mine will be. Come! I've got business down below." The halfbreed's eyes
widened in unbelief. "D'ye really mean it, kid? You saw me shoot Henry Dodd--
d'ye really wanta draw with me?" "I do." "But then you'll be dead, and I won't
know nothin' about the gems. Unless that letter tells?" "Perhaps. You mustn't
expect me to take _all_ the chances, you know." "Does the letter tell?" "I
haven't opened it, I say." Foss studied in drunken seriousness. "And if you
should happen to get me, why--why, where am I at again?" he puzzled. Oliver
laughed outright. "You're an amusing creature," he said. "I don't believe you're
half the badman that you imagine you are." He believed nothing of the sort, but
his arms were growing desperately weary and he must goad the drunken gunman into
immediate action. "There's just one thing that's the matter with you," he gibed
on, ready to descend to any speech that would cut the killer and break his
deadly calm. "That's my getting your girl away from you! It's not the gems; it's
that that hurts you. Why, say, do you think she'd wipe her feet on you!" Into
the eyes of the halfbreed came a viperish light that almost stilled Oliver's
heartbeats. For an instant he feared that he had gone too far, that Foss was
about to shoot him down in cold blood. Foss stood spread-legged in the path, as
before, his face twisting with anger, the fingers of his left hand clinching and
unclinching themselves. Then Oliver almost ceased to breathe as a silent, dark
figure slipped wraithlike from the chaparral and began stealing toward the back
of Digger Foss. "That settles it," said Foss. "I'll kill you for that, gems or
no gems! Get ready! If you let down a hand while I'm puttin' up my gun I'll kill
you like that!" He snapped the fingers of his left hand. "I'll stick by my
bargain," Oliver assured him, his glance struggling between Foss and that silent
figure slinking in his rear. What should he do? There was murder in the black
eyes of the man who stole so stealthily upon the gunman's back. Should he shout
to Foss? His sense of fair play cried out that he should. But Foss might
misinterpret the meaning of his upraised voice, and fire. Should he--

"Here goes! I'm puttin' up my gun. Get ready, kid! When I--"

There was a leap, a flash of steel in the sunlight, a scream of agonizing pain.
Oliver's gun was out and levelled; but Foss was staggering from side to side,
his arms limp before him, his head lopped forward as if he searched for
something on the ground. He collapsed and lay there gasping hideously in the
path, in a growing pool of blood. The chaparral opened and closed again; and
then only Oliver and the man in his death throes were remaining. Even as Bolivio
had died, so died Digger Foss, in a path in the wilderness, with the knife of a
Showut Poche-daka in his back. CHAPTER XXV

THE ANSWER

Two weeks had passed since the battle of the Poison Oakers. That organization
was now no more. Jessamy's efforts to mobilize a posse to stop the fight had
proved fruitless. Only the constable and Damon Tamroy rode back with her with
first aid packages, for Halfmoon Flat had voiced its indifference in a single
sentence--"Let 'em fight it out!" Those whom the constable would have deputized
promptly made themselves scarce. So the Poison Oakers had fought it out, and in
so doing appended "Finis" to the annals of their gang. Old Man Selden died two
days after the battle. Winthrop was killed outright, and Moffat was seriously
wounded, but might recover. Obed Pence was dead; Digger Foss was dead. Jay
Muenster was dead. Thus half of their numbers were wiped out, and among them the
controlling genius of the gang, Old Man Selden. And without him those remaining,
already split into two factions, were as a ship without a rudder. And all
because of Oliver Drew! Oliver stepped from the train at Halfmoon Flat this
afternoon, two weeks after the fight. He had helped Jessamy and her mother
through the difficulties arising from the tragedy, had appeared as witness at
the inquest, and had then hurried to Los Angeles with his sealed envelope. Now,
returning, he caught Poche in a pasture close to the village and saddled him. It
was one o'clock in the afternoon. He had lunched on the diner, so at once he
lifted Poche into his mile-devouring lope and headed straight for Poison Oak
Ranch. What changes had taken place since first he galloped along that road,
barely four months before! Few with whom he had come in contact were still
pursuing the even tenor of their ways, as then. He thought of the fight and of
the spectacular death of Digger Foss. At the inquest he had been unable to throw
any light on the identity of the halfbreed's murderer. He was an Indian--beyond
this Oliver could say no more. The coroner had quizzed him sharply. Whereupon
Oliver had asked that official if he himself thought it likely that he could
have looked into the muzzle of a Colt revolver in the hands of Digger Foss, and
at the same time make sure of the identity of a man stealing up behind him. The
coroner had scratched his head. "I reckon I'd 'a' been tol'able int'rested in
that gun o' Digger's," was his confession. And Oliver had told the truth. To
this day he does not know who killed the gunman--but he knows that in all
probability his own life was saved when it occurred, and that it was a Showut
Poche-daka who struck the blow. At Poison Oak Ranch he found Jessamy awaiting
him. He had sent her a wire the day before, telling her he was coming, and the
hour he would arrive. They shook hands soberly, and after a short conversation
with Mrs. Selden, Oliver saddled White Ann for Jessamy and they rode away into
the hills. They were for the most part silent as their horses jogged along
manzanita-bordered trails. Instinctively they avoided Lime Rock and its
vicinity, and made toward the north, up over the hog-back hills, now sear and
yellow, which climbed in interminable ranks to the snowy peaks. They came to a
ledge that overlooked the river, and here they halted while the girl gazed down
on scenes that never wearied her. They dismounted presently and seated
themselves on two great grey stones. Jessamy rested her round chin in her hand,
and from under long lashes watched the green river winding about its serpentine
curves below. The tragedy of death had left its mark on her face. There was a
sober, half-pathetic droop to the red lips. The comradely black eyes were
thoughtful. But the self-reliant poise of the sturdy shoulders still was hers,
and the sense of strength that she exhaled was not impaired. Her dress today was
not rugged, as was ordinarily the case when she rode into the hills. She wore a
black divided skirt, and a low-neck yellow-silk waist, trimmed with black, and a
black-silk sailor's neckerchief. To further this effect a yellow rose nestled in
her night-black hair. She looked like a gorgeous California oriole, so trim was
her figure, so like that bird's were the contrast of colours she displayed. And
her voice when she spoke, low and clear and throbbing melodiously, reminded him
of the notes of this same sweet songster at nesting time. Oliver sat looking at
the profile of her face, with the wind-whipped hair about it. More fully than
ever now he realized that she was everything in life to him. And today--now!--
smilingly, unabashed. "Well, Jessamy," he began, "I have seen Dad's lawyers."
She turned her face toward him, but still rested her elbow on her knee, one
cheek now cupped by her hand. "Yes," she said softly. "Tell me all about it."
"And I gave them my answer to the question." For several moments her level
glance searched his face, a little smile on her lips. "And what is your answer?"
she asked. He rose and moved to the stone on which she sat, seating himself
beside her. "Don't you know what my answer is?" he asked softly. She continued
to look at him fearlessly, smilingly, unabashed. "I think I know," she said.
"But tell me." "My answer," he said, "is the same that dear old Dad kept
repeating for thirty years. I shall not enrich myself by sacrificing the
confidence placed in me. I shall remain loyal to my simple trust. I am the
Watchman of the Dead." Her lips quivered and her eyes glowed warmly, and two
tears trickled down her cheeks. Oliver took from his shirt the envelope and
showed her the black seals, still unbroken. Then on a flat rock before them he
made a tiny fire of grass and twigs, and placed the envelope on top of it. Then
he lighted a match. "The funeral pyre of my worldly fortune!" he apostrophized.
"The lost mine of Bolivio will be lost indeed when the map has burned." Together
they watched the tiny fire in silence, till the black wax sputtered and dripped
down on the stone, and the eager flames crinkled the envelope and its contents
and reduced them to ashes. "And now?" said Oliver. "And now!" echoed Jessamy. He
slowly placed both arms about her and lifted her, unresisting, to her feet. He
drew her close, brushed back her hair, and looked deep into eyes from which
tears streamed unrestrained. Then she threw her arms about his shoulders, and,
with a glad laugh, half hysterical, she drew his head down and kissed him time
and again. His hour had come. Oliver Drew had captured the star that had led him
on and on--his Star of Destiny. Warm were her lips and tremulous--glowing were
her eyes for love of him. His pulse leaped madly as she gave herself to him in
absolute surrender. "There's another matter," he said five minutes later, as she
lay silent in his arms, with the fragrance of her hair in his nostrils. "Old
Danforth, the head of the firm of attorneys that attended to Dad's affairs,
looked at me keenly from under shaggy brows when I gave my answer. "'So it's No,
is it, young man?' he said. "'No it is,' I told him. "'In that case,' he said,
'you are to come with me.' "He took me to a bank and opened a safe-deposit box
in the vaults. He showed me bonds totalling over a hundred thousand dollars, and
cash that represented the interest coupons the firm had been clipping since Dad
died. "'Here's the key,' he told me. 'If your answer had been yes, these bonds,
too, would have gone to the church. For then you would have had the gems. Your
father didn't mean to leave you penniless. You would have been fairly well off,
I imagine, whether your answer had been Yes or No. Your father wanted his
question answered by a man of education, and I think he would be pleased at your
decision.'" Jessamy had straightened and twisted in his arms till her face was
close to his. "Peter Drew never hinted at that to me!" she cried. "I--I suppose
you'd have nothing but the Old Ivison Place if you answered No. Oh, my romantic
Old Peter Drew! God rest his soul! I'm so glad." "Glad, eh?" He smiled
whimsically at her, and she quickly interpreted his thoughts. "Oh, but, Oliver--
you don't understand! It's not that you're wealthy, after all--but now you can
give Damon Tamroy just what the cement company would have paid him for Lime
Rock!" "Lime Rock shall be your wedding gift," he laughed. "Oh, Oliver! And--and
when we're--married, you won't take me away from the Poison Oak Country, will
you, dear! I'll go anywhere you say--but these hills, and the river, and Lime
Rock, and Old Dad Sloan, and--my Hummingbird--and the perfume of the manzanita
blossoms in spring--and--oh, I love my country next to you, dear heart! And in
my dreams I loved you even before you came riding to me in the silver-mounted
saddle of Bolivio, like a knight out of the past. This is my country--and if we
must go, I'll pine for it--and maybe die like the Indian bride. I want to stay
here, Oliver dear--with you--down on the dear Old Ivison Place!" Oliver tenderly
kissed his Star of Destiny. "I have no other plans," he whispered into her ear.
"My place is there.... I am the Watchman of the Dead!" THE END