CHAPTER I

UNREPENTANT

"To wine, women and gambling, at the age of twenty-four--one hundred thousand
dollars. That's your bill, my boy, and--I've got to pay it." James Carbhoy
leaned back smiling, his half-humorous eyes squarely challenging his son, who
was lounging in a luxurious morocco chair at the other side of the desk. As the
moments passed without producing any reply, he reached towards the cabinet at
his elbow and helped himself to a large cigar. Without any scruple he tore the
end off it with his strong teeth and struck a match. "Well?" Gordon Carbhoy
cleared his throat and looked serious. In spite of his father's easy, smiling
manner he knew that a crisis in his affairs had been reached. He understood the
iron will lying behind the pleasant steel-gray eyes of his parent. It was a will
that flinched at nothing, a will that had carved for its owner a great fortune
in America's most strenuous financial arena, the railroad world. He also knew
the only way in which to meet his father's challenge with any hope of success.
Above everything else the millionaire demanded courage and manhood--manhood as
he understood it--from those whom he regarded well. "I'm waiting." Gordon
stirred. The millionaire carefully lit his cigar. "Put that way it--sounds
rotten, Dad, doesn't it?" Gordon's mobile lips twisted humorously, and he also
reached towards the cigar cabinet. But the older man intercepted him. He held
out a box of lesser cigars. "Try one of these, Gordon. One of the others would
add two dollars to your bill. These are half the price." The two men smiled into
each other's eyes. A great devotion lay between them. But their regard was not
likely to interfere with the business in hand. Gordon helped himself. Then he
rose from his chair. He moved across the handsome room, towering enormously. His
six feet three inches were well matched by a great pair of athletic shoulders.
His handsome face bore no traces of the fast living implied by the enormous
total of his debts. The wholesome tan of outdoor sports left him a fine specimen
of the more brilliant youth of America. Then, too, in his humorous blue eyes lay
an extra dash of recklessness, which was probably due to his superlative
physical advantages. He came back to his chair and propped his vast body on the
back of it. His father was watching him affectionately. "Dad," he exclaimed,
"I'm--sorry." The other shook his head. "Don't say that. It's not true. I'd hate
it to be true--anyway." Gordon's face lit. "You're--going to pay it?" "Sure. I'm
not going to have our name stink in our home city. Sure I'm going to pay it.
But----"

"But--what?" "So are you." The faint ticking of the bracket clock on the wall
suddenly became like the blows of a hammer. "I--I don't think I----"

Young Gordon broke off. His merry eyes had suddenly become troubled. The crisis
was becoming acute. For some moments the millionaire smoked on luxuriously. Then
he removed his cigar and cleared his throat. "I'm not going to shout. That's not
my way," he said in his easy, deliberate fashion. "Guess folks have got to be
young, and the younger they're young--why, the better. I was young, and--got
over it. You're going to get over it. I figure to help you that way. This is not
the first bill you've handed me, but--but it's going to be the last. Guess your
baby clothes can be packed right up. Maybe they'll be all the better for it when
you hand 'em on to--your kiddie." The trouble had passed out of the younger
man's eyes. They were filled with the humor inspired by his father's manner of
dealing with the affair in hand. "That's all right," he said. "I seem to get
that clear enough." "I'm glad." The millionaire twisted the cigar into the
corner of his mouth. "We can pass right on to--other things. You've been one of
my secretaries for three years, and it don't seem to me the work's worried you a
lot. Still, I put you in early thinking you'd get interested in the source of
the dollars you were handing out in bunches. Maybe it wasn't the best way of
doing it. Still, I had to try it. You see, it's a great organization I control--
though you may not know it. I control more millions than you could count on your
fingers and toes, and they've cost me some mental sweat gathering 'em together.
Some day you've got to sit in this chair and talk over this 'phone, and when you
do you'll be--a man. You see, I don't fancy my pile being invested in cut
flowers and automobiles for lady friends. I don't seem to have heard that
thousand-dollar parties to boys who can't smoke a five-cent cigar right, and
girls who're just out for a good time anyway, are liable to bring you interest
on the capital invested, except in the way of contempt. And five-thousand dollar
apartments are calculated to rival the luxury of Rome before its fall. Big play
at 'draw' and 'auction' are two diseases not provided for amongst the cures in
patent med'cine advertisements, and as for the older vintages in wines, they're
only permissible in folks who've quit worrying to scratch dollars together. None
of these things seem to me good business, and in a man at the outset of his
career some of 'em are--immoral. You've had your preliminary run, and I'll admit
you've shown a fine turn of speed. But it smacks too much of the race-track, and
seems to me quite unsuited to the hard highroad of big finance you're destined
to travel. "Just one moment," he went on, as, with flushing cheeks and half-
angry eyes, his son was about to break in. "You haven't got the point of this
talk yet. This bill you've handed me don't figure as largely in it as you might
guess. I've thought about things these months. I don't blame you a thing. I'm
not kicking. The fact you've got to grab and get your hind teeth into is that
there comes a time when two can't spend one fortune with any degree of
amicability. It's a sort of proposition like two dogs and a bone. Now from a
canine point of view that bone certainly belongs to one of those dogs. No two
dogs ever stole a bone together. Consequently, the situation ends in a scrap,
and it isn't always a cert. that the right thief gets the bone. How it would
work out between us I'm not prepared to guess, but, as 'scrap' don't belong to
the vocabulary between us, we'll handle the matter in another way. Seeing the
fortune--at present--belongs to me, I'll do the spending in--my own way. My way
is mighty simple, too, as far as you're concerned. I'm going to stake you all
you need, so you can get out and find a bone you can worry on _your own_. That's
how you're going to pay this bill. You're going to get busy quitting play. We
are, and always have been, and always will be, just two great big friends, and
I'd like you to remember that when I say that the life you're living is all
right for a boy, but in a man it leads to dirty ditches that aren't easy
climbing out of, and--you can't do clean work with dirty hands. When you've
shown me you're capable of collecting a bone for your own worrying--why, you can
come right back here, and I'll be pleased and proud to hand over the reins of
this organization, and I'll be mighty content to sit around in one of the back
seats and get busy with the applause. Now you talk." Gordon began without a
moment's hesitation. Something of his heat had passed, but it still remained
near the surface. "Quite time I did," he cried almost sharply. "Look here,
father, I don't think you meant all you said the way your talk conveyed it. To
me the most important of your talk is the implied immorality of my mode of life.
Then the inconsistent fashion in which you point my way towards--big finance."
His eyes lit again. They had suddenly become dangerously bright. "Here, we're
not going to quarrel, nor get angry," he went on, gathering heat of manner even
in his denial. "We're too great friends for that, and you've always been too
good a sportsman to me, but--but I'm not going to sit and listen to you or
anybody else accusing me of immorality without kicking with all my strength!" He
brought one great fist down on the desk with a bang that set the ink-wells and
other objects dancing perilously. "I'm not angry with you. I couldn't get angry
with you," he proceeded, with a suppressed excitement that added to his father's
smile; "but I tell you right here I'll not stand for it from you or anybody. My
only crime is spending your money, which you have always encouraged me to do.
From my university days to now my whole leisure has been given up to athletics.
A man can't live immorally and win the contests I have won. I don't need to name
them. Boxing, sculling, running, baseball, swimming. You know that. Any sane man
knows that. The money I've spent has been spent in the ordinary course of the
life to which you have brought me up. You have always impressed on me the great
position you occupy and the necessity for keeping my end up. That's all I have
to say about my debts, but I have something to say on the subject of the
inconsistency with which you censure immorality in the same breath as you demand
my immediate plunge into the mire of big finance." He paused for a moment. Then,
as abruptly as it had arisen, his heat died down, and gave place to the ready
humor of his real nature. "Gee, I want to laugh!" He sprang from his seat and
began to pace the floor, talking as he moved. His father watched him with
twinkling, affectionate eyes. "Immorality? Psha! Was there ever anything more
immoral than modern finance? You imply I have learned nothing of your
organization in the three years I've been one of your secretaries. Dad," he
warned, "I've learned enough to have a profound contempt for the methods of big
corporations in this country, or anywhere else. It's all graft--graft of one
sort or another. Do you need me to tell _you_ of it? No, I don't think so.
Twenty-five millions wouldn't cover the fortune you've made. I know that well
enough. How has it been made? Here, I'll just give you one instance of the
machinations of a big corporation. How did you gain control of the Union
Grayling and Ukataw Railroad? Psha! What's the use? You know. You hammered it,
hammered it to nothing. You got your own people into it, and sat back while they
ran it nearly into bankruptcy under your orders. Then you bought. Bought it
right up, and--sent it ahead. Immoral? It makes me sweat to think of the people
who must have lost fortunes in that scoop. Immoral? Why, I tell you, Dad, any
man can make a pile if he sticks to the old saw: 'Don't butt up against the law
--just dodge it.' It's only difficult for the fellow who remembers his Sunday-
school days. So far, Dad, I've avoided immorality. I'm waiting till I start on
big finance to become its victim. That's my talk. Now you do some." His father
nodded. Then he said dryly, "This carpet cost me five hundred dollars, that
chair fifty. Try the chair." Gordon laughed at the imperturbable smile on his
father's face, but he flung his great body into the chair. James Carbhoy
deliberately knocked the ash from his cigar. It was many years since he had
received such a straight talk from any man. Some of it had stung--stung sharply,
but the justice or injustice of it he set aside. His whole mind and heart were
upon other matters. He took no umbrage. He swept all personal feeling aside and
regarded the boy whom he idolized. "We've both made some talk," he observed,
"but I think the last word's with me. I don't seem to be sure which of us has
put up the bluff. Maybe we both have. Anyway, right here and now I'm going to
call your hand. I offered you a stake. You say it's easy to make a pile. Can you
make a pile?" Gordon shrugged. "Why, yes. If I follow your wish and embark on--
big finance. And--forget my Sunday school." The millionaire gathered up the
sheaf of loose accounts on the desk and held them up. His smile was grim and
challenging. "One hundred thousand dollars these bills represent. The cashier
will hand you a check for that amount. Say, you've shown your ability to spend
that amount; can you show your ability to make it?" For a moment the boy's blue
eyes avoided the half-ironical smile of his father's. Then suddenly they
returned the steady gaze, and a flush spread swiftly over his handsome face.
Something of his father's purpose was dawning upon him. He began to realize that
the man who had made those many millions was far too clever for him when it came
to debate. He squared his shoulders obstinately and took up the challenge. There
was no other course for him. But even as he accepted it his heart sank at the
prospect. "Certainly," he cried. "Certainly--with a stake to start me." His
father nodded. "Sure. That goes," he said. Then he laid the papers on the desk,
and his whole manner underwent a further change. His eyes seemed to harden with
the light of battle. There was an ironical skepticism in them. Even there was a
shadow of contempt. For the moment it seemed as if he had forgotten that the man
before him was his son, and regarded him merely as some rival financier seeking
to beat him in a deal. "I'll hand you one hundred thousand dollars. That's your
stake. This is the way you'll pay those bills. You'll leave this city in twenty-
four hours. You can go where you choose, do what you choose. But you must return
here in twelve months' time with exactly double that sum. I make no conditions
as to how you make the money. That's right up to you. I shall ask no questions,
and blame you for no process you adopt, however much I disapprove. Then, to show
you how certain I am you can't do it--why, if you make good, there's a half-
share partnership in my organization waiting right here for you." "A half-share
partnership?" Gordon repeated incredulously. "You said--a half-share?" "That's
precisely what I said." All of a sudden the younger man flung back his head and
laughed aloud. "Why, Dad, I stand to win right along the line--anyway," he
exclaimed. The older man's eyes softened. "Maybe it's just how you look at it."
The change in his father's manner was quite lost upon Gordon. He only saw his
enormous advantage in this one-sided bargain. "Say, Dad, was there ever such a
father as I've got?" he cried exuberantly. "Never, never! But you're not going
to monopolize all the sportsmanship. I can play the game, too. I don't need one
hundred thousand dollars on this game. I don't need twelve months to do it in.
I'm not going to cut twelve months out of our lives together. Six is all I need.
Six months, and five thousand dollars' stake. That's what I need. Give me that,
and I'll be back with one hundred and five thousand dollars in six months' time.
I haven't a notion where I'm going or what I'm going to do. All I know is you've
put it up to me to make good, and I'm going to. I'll get that money if--if I
have to rob a bank." The boy's recklessness was too much for the gravity of the
financier. He sat back and laughed. He flung his half-smoked cigar away, and in
a moment father and son had joined in a duel of loud-voiced mirth. Presently,
however, their laughter died out. The millionaire sprang to his feet. His eyes
were shining with delight. "I don't care a darn how you do it, boy," he cried.
"As you say, it's up to you. You see, I've got over my Sunday-school days, as
you so delicately reminded me. That's by the way. But there's more in this than
maybe you get right. You're going to learn that no graft can turn five thousand
dollars into one hundred thousand in six months without a mighty fine commercial
brain behind it. It's that brain I'm looking for in my son. Now get along and
see your mother and sister. You've only got twenty-four hours' grace. Leave
these bills to me. You're making a bid for the greatest fortune ever staked in a
wager, and things like that don't stand for any delay. Get out, Gordon, boy; get
out and--make good." He held one powerful hand out across the desk, and Gordon
promptly seized and wrung it. "Good-by, Dad, and--God bless you." CHAPTER II

IN CHASTENED MOOD

Of course, the whole thing was ridiculous. Gordon knew that. No one could know
it better. The more he thought about it the more surely he was certain of it. He
told himself that he, personally, had behaved like a first-class madman over the
whole affair. How on earth was he to make one hundred thousand dollars in six
months? It couldn't be done. That was all. It simply couldn't be done. What
power of mischief had driven him to charge his highly respectable father with
graft? It was a rotten thing to do anyway. And it served him right that it had
come back on him by pointing the way to the present impossible situation. He was
perfectly disgusted with himself. But after a while he began to chuckle. The
thing was not without an atmosphere of humor--of a sort. No doubt his friends
would have seen a tremendous humor in the idea of his making one hundred
thousand dollars under any conditions. One hundred thousand dollars! What a
tremendous sum it sounded viewed from the standpoint of his having to make it.
He had never considered it a vast sum before. But now it seemed to grow and grow
every time he thought of it. Then he laughed. What stupid things "noughts" were.
They meant so much just now, and, in reality, they mean nothing at all. Oh,
dear. The whole thing was a terrible trouble. It was worse. It was a tragedy.
But--he mustn't give his friends the laugh on him. That would be the last straw.
No. The whole thing should remain a secret between his father and himself. He
almost broke into a sweat as he suddenly remembered the Press. What wouldn't the
Press do with the story. The son and heir of James Carbhoy, the well-known
multi-millionaire, leaving home to show the world how to make one hundred
thousand dollars in record time! A stupendous farce. Then the swarm of reporters
buzzing about him like a cloud of flies in summer time. The prospect was too
depressing. Think of the columns in the Press, especially the cheaper Press.
They would haunt him from New York to--Timbuctoo! It couldn't be done. He felt
certain that in such circumstances suicide would be justifiable. Thoughts such
as these swept on through his disturbed brain as he sped up Broadway on his way
to say good-by to his mother and sister. He had been lucky in finding his
father's high-powered automobile standing outside the palatial entrance of the
towering Carbhoy Building. Nor had he the least scruple in commandeering it. His
visit to the east side of Central Park was in the nature of a whirlwind. He had
no desire to be questioned, and he knew his young sister, Gracie, too well to
give her a chance in that direction. Their friends were wont to say that, for
one so young--she was only thirteen--she was all wit and intellect. He felt that
that was because she was his father's daughter. For himself he was positive she
was all precocity and impertinence. And he told himself he was quite
unprejudiced. As for his mother, she was one of those gentle Southern women who
declare that no woman has the right to question the doings of the male members
of her household, and, in spite of the luxury with which she was surrounded, and
which she never failed to feel the burden of--she was originally a small
farmer's daughter--still yearned for that homely meal of her youth, "supper"--a
collation of coffee, cakes, preserves and cold meats. Experience warned him that
he must give her no inkling of the real facts. She would be too terribly shocked
at the revelation. So, for an hour or more, in the little family circle, in his
mother's splendid boudoir, he talked of everything but his own affairs. Nor was
it until he was in the act of taking his leave that he warned them both that he
was leaving the city for six months. He felt it was a cowardly thing to do, but,
having fired his bombshell in their midst, he fled precipitately before its
stunning effect had time to pass away. Off he sped, the automobile urged to a
dangerous speed, and it was with a great sense of relief that he finally reached
his own apartment on Riverside Drive. Letting himself in, he found his man,
Harding, waiting for him. "Mrs. Carbhoy has been ringing you up, sir," he said
in the level tones of a well-trained servant. "She wants to speak to you, sir--
most important." Gordon hardened his heart. "Disconnect the 'phone then," he
said sharply, and flung himself into a great settle which stood in the domed
hall. "Very good, sir." The man was moving away. "If my mother or sister should
come here, I'm out. Send word down to the office that there's no one in." The
valet's face was quite expressionless. Gordon Carbhoy had his own way of dealing
with his affairs. Harding understood this. He was also devoted to his master.
"Yes, sir." He vanished out of the hall. Left alone a great change came over
Gordon. The old buoyancy and humor seemed suddenly to fall from him. For once
his eyes were perfectly, almost painfully serious. He stared about him,
searching the remoteness of his surroundings, his eyes and thoughts dwelling on
the luxury of the apartment he had occupied for the last three years. It was a
two-floored masterpiece of builder's ingenuity. It was to be his home no longer.
That splendid domed hall had been the scene of many innocent revels. Yes, in
spite of the accusation of immorality, his parties had been innocent enough. He
had entertained the boys and girls of his acquaintance royally, but--innocently.
Well, that was all done with. It was just a memory. The future was his concern.
The future. And that depended on his own exertions. For a moment the seriousness
of his mood lifted. Surely his own exertions as a business man was a broken reed
to----  What about failure? What was to follow--failure? He hadn't thought of
it, and his father hadn't spoken of it. Suddenly the cloud settled again, and a
sort of panic swept over him. Did his father intend to--kick him out? It almost
looked like it. And yet----  Had he intended this stake as his last? What a
perfect fool he had been to refuse the hundred thousand dollars. Then, in a
moment, his panic passed. He was glad he had done so--anyway. He selected a
cigar from his case and sniffed at it. He remembered his father's. His handsome
blue eyes were twinkling. His own cigars cost half a dollar more than his
father's, and the fact amused him. He cut the end carefully and lit it. Then he
leaned back on the cushions and resigned himself to the reflection that these
things, too, must go with the rest. They, too, must become a mere memory.
"Harding!" he called. The man appeared almost magically. "Harding, have you ever
smoked a--five-cent cigar?" he inquired thoughtfully. The valet cleared his
throat. "I'm sorry to say, sir, I haven't." "Sorry?" Gordon's eyes were smiling.
"A mere figure of speech, sir." "Ah--I see. They must be--painful." "Very, I
should think, sir. But, beg pardon, sir, I believe in some--ahem--low places,
they sell two for five cents!" "Two? I--I wonder if the sanitary authorities
know about it." Gordon smiled into the serious face of his devoted henchman.
Then he went on rapidly--

"What baggage do you suggest for a six months' trip?" "Europe, sir?" "No."
"South, sir?" "I--haven't made up my mind." "General then, sir. That'll need
more. There's the three large trunks. The steamer trunk. Four suit cases. Will
you need your polo kit, sir, and your----?" Gordon shook his head. "Guess your
focus needs adjusting. Now, suppose you were getting a man ready for a six
months' trip--a man who smoked those two-for-five cigars. What would you give
him?" Harding's eyelids flickered. He sighed. "It would be difficult, sir. I
shouldn't give him clean under-garments, sir. I should suggest the oldest suit I
could find. You see, sir, it would be waste to give him a good suit. The axles
of those box cars are so greasy. I'm not sure about a toothbrush." "Your focus
is adjusting itself." "Yes, sir, thank you, sir." "And the five-cent-cigar man?"
Harding's verdict came promptly. "A hand bag with one good suit and ablutionary
utensils, sir. Also strong, warm under-garments, and a thick overcoat. One spare
pair of boots. You see, sir, he could carry that himself." "Good," cried Gordon
delightedly. "You prepare for that five-cent-cigar man. Now I want some food.
Better ring down to the restaurant." "Yes, sir. An oyster cocktail? Squab on
toast, or a little pheasant? What about sweets, sir, and what wine will you
take?" "Great gods no, man! Nothing like that. Think of your five-cent-cigar
man. What would he have? Why, sandwiches. You know, nice thick ones, mostly
bread. No. Wait a bit. I know. A club sandwich. Two club sandwiches, and a
bottle of domestic lager. Two things I hate--eternally. We must equip ourselves,
Harding. We must mortify the flesh. We must readjust our focus, and outrage all
our more delicate susceptibilities. We must reduce ourselves to the requirements
of the five-cent-cigar man, and turn a happy, smiling world into a dark and
drear struggle for existence. See to it, good Harding, see to it." The man
withdrew, puzzled. Used as he was to Gordon's vagaries, the thought of his
master dining off two hideous club sandwiches and a bottle of _domestic_ lager
made his staunch stomach positively turn. His perfect training, however,
permitted of no verbal protest. And he waited on the diner with as much care for
punctilio as though a formal banquet were in progress. Then came another violent
shock to his feelings. Gordon leaned back in his chair with a sigh of amused
contentment. "Do you think you could get me a--five-cent cigar, Harding?" he
demanded. "Say, I enjoyed that food. That unique combination of chicken, hot
bacon and--and something pickly--why, it's great. And as for _domestic_ lager--
it's got wine beaten a mile. Guess I'm mighty anxious to explore a--five-cent
cigar." Harding cleared his throat. "I'll do my best, sir. It may be difficult,
but I'll do my best. I'll consult the clerk downstairs. He smokes very bad
cigars, sir." "Good. You get busy. I'll be around in my den." "Yes, sir,"
Harding hesitated. Then with an unusual diffidence, "Coffee, sir? A little of
the '48 brandy, sir?" Gordon stared. "Can I believe my ears? Spoil a dinner like
that with--'48 brandy? I'm astonished, Harding. That focus, man; that five-cent-
cigar focus!" Gordon hurried off into his den with a laugh. Harding gazed after
him with puzzled, respectful eyes. Once in the privacy of his den, half office,
half library, and wholly a room of comfort, Gordon forgot his laugh. His mind
was quite made up, and he knew that a long evening's work lay before him. He
picked up the receiver of his private 'phone to his father's office and sat down
at the desk. "Hello! Hello! Ah! That you, Harker? Splendid. Guess I'm glad I
caught you. Working late, eh? Sure. It's the way in er--big finance. Yes. Got to
lie awake at nights to do the other feller. Say. No. Oh, no, that's not what I
rang you up for. It's about--finance. Ha, ha! It's a check for me. Did the
governor leave me one? Good. Five thousand dollars, isn't it? Well, say, don't
place it to my credit. Get cash for it to-morrow, and send it along to----  Let
me see. Yes, I know. You send along a bright clerk with it. He can meet me at
the Pennsylvania Depot to-morrow, at noon--sharp. Yes. In the waiting-room. Get
that? Good. So long." "That's that," he muttered, as he replaced the receiver.
"Now for Charlie Spiers." He turned to the ordinary 'phone, picked up the
receiver, gave the operator the number, and waited. "Hello! Hello, hello, hello!
That you, Charlie? Bully. I wasn't sure getting you. Guess my luck's right in.
How are you? Goo---- No, better not come around to-night. Fact is, I'm up to my
back teeth packing and things. I've got to be away awhile. Business--important."
He laughed. "Don't get funny. It's not play. No. Eh? What's that? A lady? Quit
it. If there's a thing I can't stand just about now it's a suggestion of
immorality. I mean that. The word 'immoral' 's about enough to set me chasing
Broadway barking and foaming at the mouth. I said I'm going away on business,
and it's so important that not even my mother knows where I'm going. Yes. Ah,
I'm glad you feel that way. It's serious. Now, listen to me; it's up to you to
do me a kindness. I'm going to write the mater now and again. But I can't mail
direct, or she'll know where I am, see? Well, I can send her mail under cover to
you, and you can mail it on to her. Get me? Now, that way, you'll know just
where I am. That's so. Well, you've got to swear right along over the wire you
won't tell a soul. Not the governor, or the mater, or Gracie, or--or anybody.
No, I don't need you to cuss like a railroader about it. Just swear properly.
That's it. That's fine. On your soul and honor. Fine. I'm glad you added the
'honor' racket, it makes things plumb sure. Oh, yes, your soul's all right in
its way. But----  Good-by, boy. I'll see you six months from to-day. No. Too
busy. So long." Gordon hung up the receiver and turned back to his desk with a
sigh. He opened a drawer and took out his check-book, and gave himself up to a
few minutes of figures. There was not a great deal of money to his credit at the
bank, but it was sufficient for his purposes. He wrote and signed three checks.
Then he tore the remaining blanks up and flung them into the waste-basket. After
that he turned his attention to a systematic examination of his papers. It was a
long, and not uninteresting process, but one that took a vast amount of
patience. He tore up letter after letter, photographs, bills, every sort of
document which a bachelor seems always to accumulate when troubled by the
disease of youth. In the midst of his labors he came across his father's private
code for cable and telegraph. It brought back to him the memory of his position
as one of his father's secretaries. He smiled as he glanced through it. It must
be sent back to the office. He would hand it to the clerk who brought him his
money in the morning. So he placed it carefully in the inside pocket of his coat
and continued his labors. Half an hour later Harding appeared. "Beg pardon,
sir," he said. "I had some difficulty, but"--he held up an oily-looking cigar
with a flaming label about its middle, between his finger and thumb--"I
succeeded in obtaining one. I had to take three surface cars, and finally had to
go to Fourth Avenue. It was a lower place than I expected, sir, seeing that it
was a five-cent cigar." "That means it cost me twenty cents, Harding--unless you
were able to transfer." Gordon eyed the man's expressionless face quizzically.
"I'm sorry, sir. But I forgot about the transfer tickets." Gordon sighed with
pretended regret. "I'm sure guessing it's--bad finance. We ought to do better."
"I could have saved the fares if I'd taken your car, sir," said Harding, with a
flicker of the eyelids. "Splendid, gasoline at thirteen cents, and the price of
tires going up." Gordon drummed on the desk with his fingers and became
thoughtful. He had a painful duty yet to perform. "Harding," he said at last,
with a genuine sigh, his eyes painfully serious. "We've got to go different
ways. You've--got to quit." The valet's face never moved a muscle. "Yes, sir."
"Right away." "Yes, sir." Then the man cleared his throat, and laid the oily-
looking cigar on the desk. "I trust, sir, I've given satisfaction?"
"Satisfaction?" Gordon's tone expressed the most cordial appreciation.
"Satisfaction don't express it. I couldn't have kept up the farce of existence
without you. You are the best fellow in the world. Guess it's I who haven't
given satisfaction." "Yes, sir." "Oh--you agree?" "Yes, sir. That is, no, sir."
Harding passed one thin hand across his forehead, and the movement was one of
perplexity. It was the only gesture he permitted himself as any expression of
feeling. "I'm going away for six months--as a five-cent-cigar man," Gordon went
on, disguising his regret under a smile of humor. "I'm going away on--business."
"Yes, sir." The respectful agreement came in a monotonous tone. "So you'll--just
have to quit. That's all." "Yes, sir." "Ye-es." "You will--need a man when you
come back, sir?" The eagerness was unmistakable to Gordon. "I--hope so."
Harding's face brightened. "I will accept temporary employment then, sir. Thank
you, sir." Gordon wondered. Then he cleared his throat, and held out two of the
checks he had written. "Here's two months' wages," he said. "One is your due.
Guess the other's the same, only--it's a present. Now, get this. You'll need to
see everything cleared right out of this shanty, and stored at the Manhattan
deposit. When that's done, get right along and report things to my father, and
hand him your accounts for settlement. All my cigars and cigarettes and wine and
things, why, I guess you can have for a present. It don't seem reasonable to me
condemning you to five-cent cigars and domestic lager. Now pack me one grip, as
you said. I'll wear the suit I've got on. Mind, I need a grip I can tote myself
--full." "Very good, sir. Thank you, sir. Anything else, sir?" "Why, yes."
Gordon was smiling again. "Hand this check in at the bank when it opens to-
morrow, and get me cash for it, and bring it right along. That's all, except
you'd better get me another disgusting sandwich, and another bottle of tragedy
beer for my supper. There's nothing else." With a resolute air Gordon turned
back to his work, as, with an obvious sigh of regret, Harding silently withdrew.
CHAPTER III

GORDON ARRIVES

Gordon Carbhoy sat hunched up in his seat. His great shoulders, so square and
broad, seemed to fill up far more space than he was entitled to. His cheerful
face showed no signs of the impatience and irritability he was really enduring.
A seraphic contentment alone shone in his clear blue eyes. He was a picture of
the youthful conviction that life was in reality a very pleasant thing, and that
there did not exist a single cloud upon the delicately tinted horizon of his own
particular portion of it. In spite of this outward seeming, however, he was by
no means easy. Every now and again he would stand up and ease the tightness of
his trousers about his knees. He felt dirty, too, dirty and untidy,
notwithstanding the fact that he had washed himself, and brushed his hair, many
times in the cramped compartment of the train devoted to that purpose. Then he
would fling himself into his corner again and give his attention to the
monotonously level landscape beyond the window and strive to forget the stale
odor so peculiar to all railroad cars, especially in summer time. These were
movements and efforts he had made a hundred times since leaving the great
terminal in New York. He had slept in his corner. He had eaten cheaply in the
dining-car. He had smoked one of the delicious cigars, from the box which the
faithful Harding had secreted in his grip, in the smoker ahead. He had read
every line in the magazines he had provided himself with, even to the
advertisements. The time hung heavily, drearily. The train grumbled, and shook,
and jolted its ponderous way on across the vast American continent. It was all
very tedious. Then the endless stream of thought, often fantastic, always
unconvincing, always leading up to those ridiculous cyphers representing one
hundred thousand dollars. If only they were numerals. Nice, odd numerals. He was
a firm believer in the luck of odd numbers. But no. It was always "noughts."
Most disgusting "noughts." He yawned for about the thousandth time on his two
days' journey, and wondered hopelessly how many more times he would yawn before
he reached the Pacific. Hello! The conductor was coming through again. Going to
tear off more ticket, Gordon supposed. That tearing off was most interesting. He
wondered if the ticket would last out till he reached Seattle. He supposed so.
Seattle! The Yukon! The Yukon certainly suggested fortune, the making of a rapid
fortune. But how? One hundred thousand dollars! There it was again. His eyes
were following the movements of the rubicund conductor. The man looked
enormously self-satisfied, and was certainly bursting with authority and adipose
tissue. He wondered if he couldn't annoy him some way. It would be good to annoy
some one. He closed his smiling eyes and feigned sleep. The vast bulk of blue
uniform and brass buttons bore down upon him. It reached his "pew," dropped into
the seat opposite, and tweaked him by the coat sleeve. Gordon opened his eyes
with a pretended start. "Where are we?" he demanded irritably. "Som'eres between
the devil an' the deep sea, I guess," grinned the man. "Your--ticket." Gordon
began to fumble slowly through his pockets. He knew precisely where his ticket
was, but he searched carefully and deliberately in every other possible place.
The man waited, breathing heavily. He displayed not the slightest sign of the
annoyance desired. At last Gordon turned out the inside pocket of his coat. The
first thing he discovered amongst its contents was his father's private code
book, and the annoyance was in his eyes rather than in those of the conductor.
His resolve to return it had been entirely forgotten. He forthwith produced his
ticket. "The devil's behind us, I s'pose," said Gordon. "Anyway, we're told it's
the right place for him. I'll be glad when we reach the sea." The conductor
examined the ticket, while Gordon returned the code book to his pocket. "Ah,
Seattle," the brassbound official murmured. Then he looked into the now smiling
face before him. "You ain't for Snake's Fall?" "Guess I shouldn't have paid for
a ticket to Seattle if I were," Gordon retorted with some sarcasm. "That's so,"
observed the official, quite undisturbed. "I knew one guy was for Seattle. I was
kind o' wondering 'bout him. Se-attle," he murmured reflectively. "On the coast.
A seaport. Puget Sound," said Gordon objectionably. "A low down sailor town on
the side of a hill, wher' if you ain't climbin' up you're mostly fallin' down.
Wher' it rains nigh six months o' the year, an' parboils you the rest. Wher'
every bum going to or coming from the Yukon gets thoroughly soused and plays the
fool gener'ly." The man's retort was as pointedly objectionable as Gordon's had
been, and the challenge of it stirred the latter's sense of humor. "Guess I'm
one of the bums 'going to,'" he said cheerfully. The man's fat-surrounded eyes
ceased to grin. "Startin' fer the Yukon in--July? Never heard of it," he said,
with a shake of the head. "It's as ridiculous as startin' fer hell in summer
time. You'll make Alaska when she freezes up, and sit around till she opens next
spring. Say----"

"You mean I'll get hung up for--ten months?" cried Gordon aghast. "Jest depends
on your business." "Yes, of course." Gordon's heart sank as the man grunted up
from his seat, and handed him back his mutilated ticket. He watched him pass on
down the car and finally vanish through the doorway of the parlor-car beyond.
Then his eyes came back to his surroundings. He stared at the heads of his
fellow travelers dotting the tops of the seats about him. Then his eyes dropped
to his grip on the opposite seat lying under his overcoat, and again, later,
they turned reflectively towards the window. Ten months. Ten months, and he only
had six before him in which to accomplish his purpose. Was there ever a more
perfect imbecile? Was there ever such a fool trick? A smile of chagrin grew in
his eyes as he remembered how he had arrived at the Pennsylvania Depot, and had
studied the list of places to which he could go, seeking to find in the names an
inspiration for the accomplishment of his purpose. There had been so many that
his amazed head had been set whirling. There he had stood, wondering and gawking
like some foolish country "Rube," without one single idea beyond the fact that
he must go somewhere and make one hundred thousand dollars in six months' time.
Then had come that one illuminating flash. He saw the name in great capital
letters in an advertisement. "The Yukon." Of course. It was the one and only
place in the world for quick fortunes, and forthwith he had booked his passage
to Seattle. Nor was he likely to forget his immense satisfaction when he heard
Harding's respectful "Yes, sir," in response to his information. Now he
certainly was convinced that he was own brother to the finest bred jackass in
the whole wide world. However, there was nothing to be done but go on to
Seattle. He had paid for his ticket, and, Providence willing, to Seattle he
would go. But Providence had its own ideas upon the matter. Furthermore,
Providence began at once to set its own machinery working in his behalf. It was
the same Providence that looks after drunken men and imbeciles. Half an hour
later it impelled him to gather up his traps and pass forward into the smoker,
accompanied by one of his own big, expensive cigars. He pushed his way into the
car through the narrow door of communication. A haze of tobacco smoke blurred
his view, but at once he became aware of a single, melancholy, benevolent eye
gazing steadily at him. It was an amiable eye and withal shrewd. Also it was
surrounded by a shaggy dark brow. This had a fellow, too, but the eye belonging
to the fellow was concealed beneath what was intended to be a flesh-tinted
cover, secured in place by elastic round its owner's head. The surrounding face
was rugged and weather tanned. And it finished with a mop of iron-gray hair at
one end, and an aggressively tufted chin beard at the other. But the thrusting
whisker could not disguise the general strength of the face. Below this was a
spread of large body clad in a store suit of some pretensions, but of ill fit,
and a heavy gold watchchain and a large diamond pin in the neckwear suggested
opulence. Furthermore, One Eye suggested the prime of middle life, and robust
health and satisfaction. There was only one other occupant of the car. He was
two or three seats away, across the aisle. He promptly claimed Gordon's
attention. He was amusing himself by shooting "crap" on a baize-covered
traveling-table. Both men were smoking hard, and, by the density of the
atmosphere, and the aroma, the newcomer estimated that they, unlike himself,
were not five-cent-cigar men. He paused at the dice thrower's seat and watched
the proceedings. The man appeared not to notice his approach at all, and
continued to labor on with his pastime, carrying on a muttered address to the
obdurate "bones." "Come 'sev,'" he muttered again and again, as he flung the
dice on the table with a flick of the fingers. But the "seven" would not come
up, and at last he raised a pair of keen black eyes to Gordon's face. "Cussed
things, them durned bones," he said briefly, and went on with his play. Gordon
smiled. "It's like most things. It's luck that tells." The player grinned down
at the dice and nodded agreement, while he continued his muttered demands.
Gordon flung his traps into another seat, and sat himself down opposite the man.
Crap dice never failed to fascinate him. The melancholy benevolence of One Eye
remained fixed upon the pair. The seven refused to come up, and finally the
player desisted. "Sort of workin' calculations," he explained, with an amiable
grin. "An' they don't calc worth a cent. As you say, the hull blamed thing is
chance. Sevens, or any other old things 'll just come up when they darned
please, and neither me nor any other feller can make 'em come--playin'
straight." The man bared his gold-filled teeth in another amiable grin. And
Gordon fell. His unsuspicious mind was quite unable to appreciate the obvious
cut of the man. The rather flashy style of his clothes. The keen, quick, black
eyes. The disarming ingenuousness of his manner and speech. These things meant
nothing to him. The men he knew were as ready to win or lose a few hundred
dollars on the turn of a card as they were to drink a cocktail. The thought of
sharp practice in gambling was something which never entered their heads. He
drew out a dollar bill and laid it on the table. The sight of it across the
aisle made One Eye blink. But the black-eyed stranger promptly covered it, and
picked up the dice. He shook them in the palm of his hand and spun them on the
baize, clipping his fingers sharply. "Come 'sev,'" he muttered. The miracle of
it. The seven came up and he swept in the two dollars. In a moment he had
replaced them with a five-dollar bill. Gordon responded. "I'll take two dollars
of that," he said, and staked his money. The man spun the dice, and a five came
up. Then it was Gordon's turn to talk to the dice, calling on them for a seven
each time the man threw. The play became absorbing, and One Eye, from across the
aisle, craned forward. The seven came up before the five, and Gordon won, and
the dice passed. The game proceeded, and the luck alternated. Then Gordon began
to win. He won consistently for awhile, and nearly twenty dollars had passed
from the stranger's pocket to his. It was an interesting study in psychology.
Gordon was utterly without suspicion, and full of boyish enthusiasm. His blue
eyes were full of excited interest. He followed each throw, and talked the
jargon of the game like any gambler. All his boredom with the journey was gone.
His quest was thrust into the background. Nothing troubled him in the least. The
joy of the rolling dice was on him, and he laughed and jested as the wayward
"bones" defied or acquiesced to his requirements. The stranger was far more
subtle. For a big powerful man he possessed absurdly delicate hands. He handled
the dice with an expert touch, which Gordon utterly lacked. He talked to the
dice as they fell in a manner quite devoid of enthusiasm, and as though
muttering a formula from mere habit. He grumbled at his losses, and remained
silent in victory, and all the while he smoked, and smoked, and watched his
opponent with furtive eyes. One Eye watched the game from the corner without a
sign. A stranger, on his way through the car, paused to watch the game.
Presently he passed on, and then returned with another man. After awhile
Gordon's luck began to wane. His twenty dollars dropped to fifteen. Then to ten.
Then to five. The stranger threw a run of "sevens." Then the dice passed. But
Gordon lost them again, and presently the five dollars he was still winning
passed out of his hands. From that moment luck deserted him entirely. The
stranger threw a succession of wins. Gordon increased his stakes to five-dollar
bills. Now and again he pulled in a win, but always, it seemed, to lose two
successive throws immediately afterwards. There were times when it seemed
impossible to wrest the dice from his opponent. Whenever he held them himself he
lost them almost immediately. "Seventy-five dollars, that makes," he said, after
one such loss. "They're going your way, sure." "It's the luck of things,"
replied the stranger laconically. One Eye across the aisle smiled to himself,
and abandoned his craning. Gordon plunged. He doubled his bets with the abandon
of youth and inexperience. And the stranger never failed to tempt him that way
when they were his dice. He always laid more stake than he believed his opponent
would accept. The hundred dollars was reached and passed in Gordon's losses.
Still the game went on. He passed the hundred and fifty--and then Providence
stepped in. By this time a number of onlookers had gathered in the car. The
place was full of smoke. They were standing in the aisle. They were sitting on
the arms of the seats of the two players. One or two were leaning over the backs
of the seats. Suddenly the speeding train jolted heavily over some rough points.
It swayed for a moment with a sort of deep-sea roll. The onlooker seated on the
arm of the stranger's seat was jerked from his balance and sprawled on the
player. In his efforts to save himself he grabbed at the table, which promptly
toppled. The gambler made a lunge to save it, and, in the confusion of the
moment, a second pair of crap dice, identical with the pair Gordon was about to
shoot, rolled out of his hand. Just for an instant there was a breathless pause
as Gordon pounced on them. Then one word escaped him, and his face went deathly
white as he glared furiously at the man across the table. "Loaded!" One Eye
again craned forward. But now the patch was entirely removed from his second
eye. The next part of Providence's little game was played without a single word.
One great fist shot out from Gordon's direction, and its impact with its object
sounded dull and sodden. The gambler's head jolted backwards, and he felt as
though his neck had been broken. Then the baize-covered table was projected
across the car by Gordon's other great hand, while the spectators fled in the
direction of the doorways, and pushed and scrambled their ways through. Then
ensued a wild scene. The animal was stirred to offense with a sublime abandon.
One Eye remained in his corner, his eyes alight with an appreciation hardly to
have been expected, contemplating humorously the tangle of humanity as it moved,
with lightning rapidity, all over the car. Once, as the battle swayed in his
direction, he even moved his traps under the seat, lest their bulk should
incommode the combatants. For a moment, at the outset, the two men appeared to
be a fair match. But the impression swiftly passed. The youth, the superb
training, the skill of Gordon became like the sledge-hammer pounding of superior
gunnery in warfare. He hit when and where he pleased, and warded the wilder
blows of his opponent with almost unconcern. But the narrowness of the aisle and
the presence of the seats saved the gambler, and both men staggered and bumped
about in a way that deprived Gordon of much of the result of his advantage. The
train began to slow up. One Eye glanced apprehensively out of the window. He
gathered up his belongings, and picked up the litter of money scattered on the
floor. Then he sat watching the fight--and his opportunity. The men had closed.
Regardless of all, they fought with a fury and abandon as cordial as it now
became unscientific. The gambler, clinging to his opponent, strove to ward off
the blows which fell upon his features like a hailstorm. Gordon, with
superlative ferocity, was bent on leaving them unrecognizable. It was a bloody
onslaught, but no more bloody than Gordon intended it to be. He was stirred now,
a young lion, fighting for the only finish that would satisfy him. One Eye's
opportunity came. He made a run for the door as the train pulled up with a jolt.
But the fight went on. The stopping of the train conveyed nothing to the
fighting men. Neither saw nor cared that one of the doors was suddenly flung
open. Neither saw the rush of men in uniform. The invasion of their ring by the
train crew meant nothing to them. Then something happened. CHAPTER IV

GORDON LANDS AT SNAKE'S FALL

Gordon sat up and rubbed his eyes. Then one blood-stained hand went up to his
head, and its fingers passed through his ruffled hair. It smoothed its way down
one cheek, and finally dropped to the ground on which he was sitting. Where was
he? Suddenly he became aware of the metal track in front of him, and--
remembered. He glanced down the track. Far in the distance he could see the
speeding train. Then his eyes came back to his immediate surroundings, and
discovered that he was sitting on the boarded footway of a small country
railroad depot. How did he get there? How on earth did he get there? As no
answer to his mute inquiry was forthcoming he explored further. He discovered
that his grip and overcoat were beside him, also his hat. And some distance away
a number of loungers were idly watching him, with a smile of profound amusement
on every face. The latter discovery filled him with a swiftly rising resentment,
and, grabbing his hat and thrusting it on his head, he leaped to his feet. He
had no intention of permitting amusement at his expense. "I guess you sure had
some good time," said a deep, musical voice at his elbow. Gordon swung about and
stood confronting the man, One Eye, whom he had seen in the train. For a moment
he had it in mind to make some furiously resentful retort. But the man's
appearance held his curiosity and diverted his purpose. The patch had been
removed from his second eye, which now beamed upon him in company with its
fellow. "Guess these are yours," the man went on, thrusting a roll of bills out
towards him. "That 'sharp' dropped his wad during the scrap. I hated to think a
grafting train boss was goin' to collect it. You see, I guessed how that scrap
would end." "Are they mine?" Gordon was not quite sure he wasn't dreaming.
"Mostly." The stranger's reply was full of dry humor. Suddenly Gordon's eyes
lit. "Where is that 'sharp'? I haven't done with----"

The stranger pointed after the train. "You'll need to hustle some." The anger
died out of Gordon's eyes and he began to laugh. With some diffidence he
accepted the money. "Say, it's--mighty decent of you," he cried cordially. Then,
for want of better means of expression, "Mighty decent." The two men stood
steadily regarding each other. Tall and broad as Gordon was, the stranger was no
less. But he added to his stature the massiveness of additional years. Gordon's
feelings were under perfect control now. His eyes began to brighten with their
native humor. He was longing to solve the mystery of that eye-shade which had
disappeared from his companion's face, but was constrained to check his
curiosity. "You said you guessed how the scrap would end?" he said. "There's a
sort of blank in my--memory. I mean about the finish." The big stranger began to
rumble in his throat. To Gordon the sound was comforting in its wholesome
enjoyment. "It don't need a heap of guessing when a train 'sharp,' who's got the
conductor grafted from his brassbound cap to the soles of his rotten feet, gets
into a scrap how things are going to end. I'd sort of hoped you'd 'out' him
before the crew come along. Guess you'd have done it if there'd been more room.
That's the worst of scrappin' in a railroad car," he added regretfully. "That
train boss got along with his crew and threw you out--on your head. They kept
the 'sharp' aboard, being well grafted, and figgered to hold up your baggage. I
guessed diff'rently. That all your baggage?" he inquired anxiously. Gordon gazed
down at the grip and coat. "That's all," he said. Then he impulsively threw out
a hand, and the stranger took it. "It's decent--mighty decent of you." Again his
buoyant laugh rang out. "Say, I surely do seem to have had some good time." The
twinkling eyes of the stranger nearly closed up in a cordial grin. "Seems to me
you're fixed here till to-morrow, anyway. There ain't any sort of train west
till then. You best come along over to the hotel. They call it 'hotel'
hereabouts. I'm goin' that way." Gordon agreed, gathered up his property, and
fell in beside his companion. They moved across the track, and as they went he
caught some impression of the ragged little prairie town at which he had so
inadvertently arrived. There seemed to him to be but a single, unpaved street,
consisting of virgin prairie beaten bare and hard by local traffic. This was
lined on one side by a fringe of wooden houses of every size and condition, with
gaps here and there for roads, yet to be made, turning out of it. These houses
were mostly of a commercial nature. Back of this he vaguely understood there to
be a sparse dotting of other houses, but their purpose and arrangement remained
a mystery to him. Still farther afield he beheld the green eminence of
foothills, and still farther on, away in the distance, the snowy ramparts of the
Rocky Mountains. The town seemed to occupy only one side of the track--the south
side. The depot was beyond it, on the other. They picked their way across the
track and debouched upon the Main Street, the name of which Gordon discovered
painted in indifferent characters upon a disreputable signboard. Then they
turned westwards in the direction of an isolated building rather larger than
anything else in the village. After awhile, as his companion made no further
effort at conversation, Gordon's interest and curiosity refused to permit the
continued silence. "What State are we in?" he inquired. "Montana." Gordon
glanced quickly at his companion. "What place is this?" "Snake's Fall." The
announcement set Gordon laughing. "What's amiss with Snake's Fall?" inquired the
other sharply. "Why, nothing. I was just thinking. You see, the conductor told
me 'most everybody was making for Snake's Fall on the train. I'm sorry that
'sharp' wasn't. Say----"

"What?" Gordon laughed again. "I remember you in the smoker, only--you seemed to
have a--a patch over your left eye." "Sure." "Now you haven't got it?" "No."
"I'm not curious, only----"

The stranger's eyes lit ironically. "Sure you ain't. That's the hotel. Peter
McSwain's. He's the boss. He's a friend of mine, an' I guess he'll fix you right
for the night." The snub was decided but gentle. The man's deep, musical voice
contained no suggestion of displeasure. However, he had made the other feel that
he had been guilty of unpardonable rudeness. He was reduced to silence for the
rest of the journey to the hotel, and gave himself up to consideration of this
new position in which he now found himself. The one great fact that stood out in
his mind was that he had gained another day on the wrong side of his ledger,
and, however wrong he had been in his first attempt at fortune, his course had
been hopelessly diverted into a still more impossible channel. The absurdity of
the situation inclined him to amusement, but the knowledge of the real
seriousness of it held him troubled. As they neared the hotel his curiosity
further made itself felt. The place was an ordinary frame building with a
veranda. It was square and squat, like a box. It was two-storied, with windows,
five in all, and a center doorway. These were dotted on the face of it like
raisins in a pudding. Its original paint was undoubtedly white, but that seemed
to have long since succumbed to the influence of the weather, and now suggested
a hopeless hue which was anything but inspiriting. Leaning against the door-
casing, in his shirt-sleeves, was a smallish, florid man with ruddy hair. His
waistcoat was almost as cheerful as his face, and, judging by the sound of his
voice as he talked to a number of men lounging on the veranda, the latter quite
matched the pattern of his violently checked trousers. "That's Peter," remarked
One Eye, the name, failing a better, Gordon still thought of his companion by.
"He's a bright boy, is Peter," he added, chuckling. "The proprietor of the--
hotel?" said Gordon, interested. "Sure." Then a hail reached them from the
veranda. "Got back, Silas?" cried the loud-voiced hotel-keeper. "Just what you
say yourself," retorted Silas amiably. "Seems to me I bought a ticket and just
got off the train. Still, ther' ain't nothing certain in this world except--
graft." "That's so," laughed the other. "Still, ther' ain't much of a shadow
'bout you, so we'll take it as real. Who's your friend?" The hotel-keeper eyed
Gordon with a view to trade. The man called Silas laughed and turned to Gordon.
"Guess I didn't get your name. Mine's Mallinsbee--Silas Mallinsbee. I'm a
rancher, way out ther' in the foothills." Gordon thought for a moment. Then he
decided to use two of his given names in preference to his father's. "Mine's
Gordon Van Henslaer. Glad to meet you." "Van Henslaer?" Mallinsbee's eyes
twinkled. "Guess the first and last letters on your grip are spare. Kind of
belong back east. How-do?" Then, without waiting for a reply, he turned to
McSwain and the men on the veranda who were interestedly surveying Gordon. "This
is Mister Gordon Van Henslaer from New York. Thought he'd like to break his
journey west and get a look around Snake's Fall." Gordon laughed. "I was
persuaded at the last minute," he added. "Can you let me have a room?" McSwain
became active. "Sure. Guess we're pretty busy these times, with the town gettin'
ready to boom. But I guess I ken fix any friend of Silas Mallinsbee. Ther's a
room they calculated makin' into a bathroom back of the house, but some slick
Alec figured the boys of Snake's Fall were prejudiced, so cut it out. It's
small, but we got a bed fixed ther', an' you ken clean yourself at the trough
out back. Come right along in." Gordon was half inclined to protest, but
Mallinsbee's voice came opportunely--

"I told you Peter 'ud fix you right. I've slept in that room myself, and you'll
find it elegant sleepin', if you don't get a nightmare and get jumping around.
We'll go right in." Gordon's protest died on his lips. Mr. Mallinsbee had a
persuasion all his own. There was a humorous geniality about him that was quite
irresistible to the younger man, nor could he forget the manner in which he had
helped him after the debacle on the train. He felt that it would have been
churlish to refuse his good offices. They passed into the building. The office
was plainly furnished. A few Windsor chairs, a table, an empty stove, a few
nigger pictures on the walls, and a large register for guests' names. This was
the whole scheme. Gordon flung down his grip. "Well, I'm thankful to be off that
train, anyway," he said. "Sign here, eh?" as Peter threw the book towards him.
"Say," he added, glancing at the list of names above his, "you sure are busy."
Peter grinned complacently, while Mallinsbee looked on. "You've hit this city at
the psychological moment in its history, sir," he declared expansively. "You've
hit it, sir, when, if I ken be allowed to use the expression, the snow's gone
an' all the earth's jest bustin' with new life. You've hit it, sir, when
fortunes are just going to start right into full growth with all the impetus of
virgin soil. Snake's Fall, sir, is about to become the greatest proposition in
the Western States, as a sure thing for soaking dollars into it. And here, sir,
standing right at your elbow, is the courage, enterprise and intellect that's
made it that way. Mr. Silas Mallinsbee is the father of this city, sir; he's
more--he's the creator of it. And, sir, I congratulate you on the friendship of
such a man, a friendship, sir, in which I have the honor to share." He grabbed a
filthy piece of blotting-paper and dabbed it cheerfully over Gordon's name in
the book, while the latter smiled at the monument of enterprise himself. "I was
quite unaware----" he began. But Mallinsbee cut him short. "Peter's a good
feller," he declared, "but some seven sorts of a galoot once told him he ought
to go into Congress, and he's been talking ever since. Ther's jest one thing 'll
stop Peter talking, and that's orderin' a drink. Which I'm doin' right now.
Peter, you'll jest hand us two cocktails. Your specials. And take what you like
yourself." Peter accepted the order with alacrity. His admiration of and
friendship for Mallinsbee could not be doubted for a moment. And somehow Gordon
felt it was a good sign. He returned in a few moments with the cocktails, and a
glass of rye whiskey for himself. "I know a better play than my special
cocktails," he said, a huge wink distorting most of his ginger-hued features.
"They're all right for customers, but I ain't no use fer picklin' my liver.
How?" "Here's to the extermination of all 'sharps,'" said Mallinsbee in his
deep, rolling voice, and with a meaning glance in Gordon's direction. Gordon
nodded. "And here's to the confusion of graft and grafters." All three drank and
set their glasses down. "Graft?" said Mallinsbee thoughtfully. Then he shrugged
his massive shoulders and laughed. "It's not a heap of use blaming grafters for
their graft. They can't help it, any more than you can help scrappin' when a
feller hits your wad on the crook. Graft--why, I just hate to think of the ways
of graft. But you can't get through life without it; anyway, not life on this
earth. I used to think graft a specialty of this country, but guess I was wrong.
I'd localized. It don't belong to any one country more than another. It belongs
to life; to our human civilization. It's the time limit of life causes the
trouble. Nature makes it a cinch we've all got to be rounded up in the get-rich-
quick corral. We start life foolish. Then for a while we get a sight more
foolish. Then for a few mousy years we take on quite a nice bunch of sense.
After that we start getting foolish again, and then the time limit comes right
down on the backs of our necks like an ax. Well, I guess those years of sense
are so mighty few we've got to get rich quick against the time we start on the
foolish racket again, and graft, of one sort or another, is the short cut
necessary. "You see, there's every sort of graft. All through life we're looking
around for something we ain't got. Did you ever see a kid around his parents?
Graft; it's all graft. No kiddy ever acted right because he fancied that way.
He's lookin' ahead fer something he's needing, and his pop or his momma are the
folks to pass it along to him. Did you ever know a kid take his physic without
the promise of candy, or the certainty it would come his way? That's graft. Say,
ain't the gal you fancy the biggest graft of all? You don't get nowhere with her
without graft. She'll eat up everything you can hand her, from automobiles and
jewels down to five-cent candy. Then when you've started getting old and sick
and foolish again, having grafted a pile out of life yourself, don't every
grafter you ever knew come around an' hand you cures and listen to your senile
wisdom just as though they thought you the greatest proposition ever and hated
to see you sick? That's graft. You've got a pile and they're needin' it." The
twinkle in the big man's eyes while he was talking found a joyous response in
Gordon's. The tongue in the cheek of this native of Snake's Fall pleased him
mightily. But the wide-eyed sunset of Peter McSwain's features was one of sober
earnestness and admiration. "Gee!" he cried, with prodigious appreciation. "He
orter write a book!" CHAPTER V

A LETTER HOME

The bathroom proved to be a veritable rabbit hutch, though clean. But Gordon was
astonished to find how far the old life had fallen away behind him. The bareness
of the room did not disturb him in the least, and, after a wash in the trough at
the back of the hotel, and having dried himself on a towel that may have seen
cleaner days, and refused to be inveigled by the attraction of an unclean comb,
securely tied to a defective mirror in the passage to the back door, he came
back to his bedroom with an added appreciation for its questionable luxury.
Mallinsbee had ridden off on a great chestnut horse, nor, until Gordon saw him
in the saddle, was he definitely able to classify him in his mind. Big as the
amiable stranger was, he sat in the saddle as though he had been born in it, and
he handled his horse as only a cattle man can. At supper-time he had an
opportunity of studying something of his fellow guests in the house. They were a
mixed gathering, but every table in the dining-room was full to overflowing.
Certainly McSwain was justified in his claim to a rush of business. It was
quickly obvious to Gordon that these people were by no means natives of the
place. The majority were undoubtedly business men. Shrewd, keen men of the
speculative type, judging from the babel of talk going on about him. As far as
he could make out the whole interest of the place was land. Land--always land--
and again land. In view of Mallinsbee's friendship Peter McSwain had requested
him to sit beside him at his especial table. And he forthwith began to question
his host. "Seems to be a big talk of land going on," he said, as he ate his
macaroni soup. Peter gulped violently at a long tube of macaroni and nearly
choked. "Sure," he said, his eyes wide with an expression the meaning of which
Gordon was never quite certain about. It might have meant mere astonishment, but
it also suggested resentment. "Sure it's land. What else, unless it's coal,
would they talk in Snake's Fall? Every blamed feller you see settin' around in
this room is what Silas Mallinsbee calls a ground shark. Which means," he added,
with a grin, "they're out to buy or steal land around Snake's Fall. We guess
they prefer stealing. The place is bung full with 'em." Gordon's interest
deepened. "But why, if you'll forgive me, around--Snake's Fall?" "Young man,"
said Peter severely, "you're new to the place, and that's your excuse for such
ignorance." He pushed his half-finished soup aside and adopted an impressive
pose with both elbows on the table, his hands together, and one finger
describing acrobatic gyrations to point his words. The manner of it fascinated
his hearer. "Let me tell you, sir, that Snake's Fall is the new coalfield of
this great country. Sir," he added, with great dramatic effect, "Snake's Fall is
capable of supplying the coal of the _world_! There's hundreds of billions of
tons of high-grade coal underlying these silly-lookin' hummocks they call the
foothills. All this land around Snake's Fall was Silas Mallinsbee's ranch, and
he found the coal. That's why I said Silas Mallinsbee was the father of Snake's
Fall. He sold this land to a great coal corporation, and bought land away
further up in the hills, where he still runs his ranch. He's a great man with a
pile of dollars. And he's clever, too. He's kep' for himself all the land either
side of the railroad, except this town. And that's why all these land pirates,
or ground sharks, are around. The railroad ain't declared their land yet, and
everybody's waiting to jump in. The coal's five miles west of here, and the
railroad has got to say if they'll keep the depot where it is, or build a new
one further along, right on the coal seams. That's the play we're all watching.
We want to buy right. We want to buy for the boom. These guys here are out to
get in on the ground floor, and see prices go sky high--when they've bought.
There'll be some dandy piles made in this play--and lost." By the time he had
finished Gordon was agog with excitement. It had stirred as the man began to
talk, without his fully understanding the meaning of it. Then, as he proceeded,
it grew, and with its growth came enlightenment. Vaguely he saw the hand of
Providence in the affairs of the last few days. He had planned his own little
matters, or rather he had drifted into them, and then the gods of fortune had
taken a hand. And the way of it. He began to smile. A strangely impish mood must
have stirred them. His journey. His discovery of the absurdity of his own plans
in the nick of time. His visit to the smoker. His play with a "sharp." His
fight, and his sudden and uncalculated arrival at Snake's Fall. Here he was,
quite without the least intention of his own, landed into the only sort of place
in which it could be reasonably hoped he might pick up a fortune quickly. He
wondered how he was likely to fare in competition with these ground sharks about
him. And the thought made him begin to laugh. McSwain eyed him doubtfully.
"Amusin', ain't it?" he said, without appreciation. Gordon shook his head. "If
you only knew--it is." Peter went on with his food for a few moments in silence.
"I s'pose the boom will come big when it does start?" hazarded Gordon presently.
"Big? Say, you ain't got a grip on things yet. Snake's Fall could supply the
whole--not half--world with high-grade stove coal. Does that tell you anything?
No? Wal, it jest means that when the railroad says the word, hundred-dollar
plots 'll fetch a thousand dollars in a week, and maybe ten thousand in a month
or less. I tell you right here that in six months from the time the railroad
talks there'll be fifty thousand speculators right here, and we'll most of us
rake in our piles. We only got to jump in at the start, maybe a bit before, and
the game's right in our hands. Get me? I tell you, sir, this is bigger than the
first Kootenay rush and nigh as big as the Cobalt boom in Canada." Gordon was
impressed. "And to think I came here by accident." "Accident?" "You see, I was
persuaded--against my will." His eyes were twinkling. "Ah, Mallinsbee persuaded
you--being a friend of his." "No. As a matter of fact I think it was the train
conductor who persuaded me." "He's a wise guy, then." "Ye-es. I don't guess I'll
see him again. I surely owe him something for what he did." Peter nodded
seriously as he gazed at the humorous eyes of his companion. "He's given you the
chance of--a lifetime, sir. And that's a thing ther' ain't many in this country
yearning to do." After that the meal progressed in silence until the pie was
handed round. Gordon was thinking hard. He was wondering, in view of what he had
heard, what he ought to do. Land. What did he know about land? How could he
measure his wits against the wits of such land speculators as he saw about him?
He studied the faces of some of the clamorous crowd in the dining-room. They
were a strangely mixed lot. There were undoubtedly men of substance among them,
but equally surely the majority were adventurers looking to step into the arena
of the coming boom and wrest a slice of fortune by hook, or, more probably, by
crook. What did he know? What could he do? And his mind went back to the sharp
on the train, and the way he had fallen to the man's snare. Again he wanted to
laugh. He had counted the bills which Mallinsbee had handed him, in the privacy
of his bathroom. He only remembered to have lost about two hundred dollars to
the gambler. The dollars handed to him amounted to well over three hundred. The
miracle of it all. He had nearly killed the gambler, and, instead of losing, he
had made over a hundred dollars on the deal. The miracle of it! "Do you believe
in miracles?" he laughed abruptly. Peter glanced up from his plate suspiciously.
Then he promptly joined in the other's amusement. He always remembered that this
newcomer was a friend of Silas Mallinsbee. "Meracles?" he said reflectively. "I
can't say I always did. But one or two things have made some difference that
way. Takin' one extra drink saved my life once. The takin' of that drink wasn't
jest a meracle," he added dryly. "It was more of a habit them days. Still, it
was a meracle in a way. Me an' my brother wer' on a bust. We were feeling that
good we was handin' out our pasts in lumps to each other, same as if we was
strangers, and wasn't raised around the same cabbige patch. Wal, he'd borrowed
an automobile and left the saloon to wind it up, and get things fixed. While he
was gone the boys handed me another cocktail. Then the bartender slung one at
me, an' I hadn't no more sense than to buy another one myself. Then some damn
fool thought rye was the best mix for drinkin' on top o' cocktails, an' so they
put me to bed. Guess I never see my brother get back from that joy ride." He
sighed. "I allow they had to bury a lot of that automobile with him, he was so
mussed up. Sort o' meracle, you'd say? Then there was another time. Guess it was
my wife. She was one o' them females who make you feel you want to associate
with tame earthworms. Sort o' female who never knew what a sick headache was,
an' sang hymns of a Sunday evening, and played a harmonium when she was feelin'
in sperits. Sort o' female who couldn't help smellin' out when you was lyin' to
her, an' gener'ly told you of it. A good woman though, an' don't yer fergit it.
Wal, I got sick once an' when I got right again she guessed it was up to 'em to
insure myself in her favor. Guess I'd just paid my first premium when she goes
an' takes colic an' dies. I did all I knew. I give her ginger, an' hot-water
bags, an' poultices. It didn't make no sort o' difference. She died. I ain't
paid no premiums since. Sort o' meracle that," he added, with a satisfied smile.
"Then there's this coal. I hadn't started this hotel six months when Mallinsbee
gets busy an' makes his deal with the corporation. You ain't goin' to make a
pile out of a bum country hotel without a--meracle." The man's gravity was
impressive, and Gordon strove for sympathy. "Yes," he declared, with smiling
emphasis. "There are such things as miracles. One has happened this day--and
here. My arrival here was certainly a miracle. A peculiarly earthy miracle, but,
nevertheless, a--miracle. Say, I'll have to write some in the office. See you
again." Gordon pushed back his chair and hurried away through the crowded room
towards the office. But here again was a crowd. Here again was "land"--always
"land." And in desperation he betook himself to his bathroom. He felt he must
write to his mother. He felt that on this his arrival in Snake's Fall he could
do no less than reassure her of his well-being. Mrs. James Carbhoy sighed
contentedly as she raised her eyes from the last of a number of sheets of paper
in her lap. Her husband turned from his contemplation of the scorching streets,
and the parched foliage of the wide expanse of trees beyond the window. "Well?"
he inquired. "Where is the boy?" There was the faintest touch of anxiety in his
inquiry, but his face was perfectly controlled, and the humor in his eyes was
quite unchanged. Mrs. Carbhoy sighed again. "I don't know. He doesn't say. Nor
does he give the slightest clew." She examined the envelope of the letter. "It
was mailed here in New York. It's a rambling sort of letter. I hope he is all
right. This hot weather is----  Do you think he----"

Her husband laughed. "I guess he's all right. You see I don't fancy he wants us
to know where he is. That's come through some friend, I'd say. Just read it
out." Gordon's mother leaned back in her chair again. She was more than ready to
read her beloved boy's letter again, in spite of her misgivings. Besides, there
was a hope in her thoughts that she had missed some clew as to his whereabouts
which her clear-sighted husband might detect. "DEAREST MUM:

"Destinations are mighty curious things which have a way of making up their
minds as to whom they are terminals for, regardless of the individual. Most of
us think the matter of destination is in our own hands. We make up our minds to
go to the North Pole; well, if we get there it's because no other terminal on
the way has made up its mind to claim us. I've surely arrived at my destination,
a place I wasn't going to, nor had heard of, nor dreamed of--even when I had
nightmare. I guess this place must have said to itself, 'Hello, here's Gordon
Carbhoy on the train; he's every sort of fool, he don't know if it's Palm Sunday
or Candlemas, he hasn't got more sense than an old hen with kittens, let's
divert him where we think he ought to go.' So I arrived here quite suddenly this
afternoon and, in consequence, have wasted some fifty odd dollars of passage
money. It's a good beginning, and one the old Dad 'll surely appreciate.
"Talking of the old Dad, I'd like you to tell him from me that I don't think
graft is confined to--big finance. This is a discovery he's likely to be
interested in. Also, since he's largely interested in railroads, though not from
a traveling point of view, I would point out that much might be done to improve
accommodation. The aisles are too narrow and the corners of the seats are too
sharp. Furthermore, the best money-making scheme I can think of at the moment is
a billet as a conductor of a transcontinental express. "However, these things
are just first impressions. "There are other impressions I won't discuss here.
They relate to arrival platforms of depots. When a fellow gets out on his own in
the world, there are many things with which he comes into contact liable to
strike him forcibly. Those are the things in life calculated to teach him much
that may be useful to him afterwards. I have already come into contact with such
things, and though they are liable to leave an impression of soreness generally,
their lessons are quite sound. "On the whole, in spite of having lost fifty odd
dollars on my railroad ticket, my first two or three days' adventures have left
me with a margin of profit such as I could not reasonably have expected. I
mention this to show you, presuming that the Dad has told you the object of my
going, that my eye is definitely focused on the primary purpose of my ramblings.
"I am keeping my eyes well open and one or two of my observations might be of
interest to you. "I have discovered that the luxurious bath is not actually
necessary to life, and, from a hygienic point of view, there's no real drawback
to the kind of soap vulgarly known as 'hoss.' Furthermore, the filtration of
water for ablutionary purposes is quite unnecessary. All it needs is to be of a
consistency that'll percolate through a fish net. Moreover, judging from
observations only, I have discovered that a comb and brush, if securely chained
up, can be used on any number of heads without damaging results. "Observation
cannot be considered complete without its being turned upon one's fellow-
creatures. I have already come into contact with some very interesting specimens
of my kind. Without worrying you with details I have found some of them really
worth while. Generalizing, I'd like to say right here that man seems to be a
creature of curious habits--many of which are bad. I don't say this with malice.
On the contrary, I say it with appreciation. And, too, I never realized what a
general hobby amongst men the collecting of dollars was. It must be all the more
interesting that, as a collection, it never seems completed. I'd like to remark
that view points change quickly under given circumstances, and I am now bitten
with the desire to become a collector. "Furthermore, my focus had readjusted
itself already. For instance, I feel no repulsion at the manners displayed in
the dining-room of a small country 'hotel.' I feel sure that the man who eats
with his mouth open and snores at the same time is quite justified, if he
happens to be bigger and stronger than the man who hears and sees him. I also
feel that a man is only within his rights in having two or even three helpings
of every dish in a hotel run on the American plan, unless the limit to a man's
capacity is definitely estimated on the printed tariff. Another observation came
my way. Honesty seems to be a matter of variable quality. A nice ethical problem
is suggested by the following incident. A man robs his victim; a righteously
indignant onlooker sees the transaction, and his honesty-loving nature rebels.
He forthwith robs the robber and hands the proceeds of his robbery to the
original victim. This seems to me to open up a road to discussion which I'm sure
the Dad and I would enjoy--though not at this distance. "I have already learned
that there are plenty of great men in the world whose existence I had never
suspected. I have a feeling that local celebrities have a greater glory than
national heroes. George Washington never told a lie, it is true, and his
birthday forms an adequate excuse for a certain stimulation in the enjoyments of
a people. But he never discovered a paying field for speculation by the dollar
chasers. Until a man does that he can have no understanding of real glory. "I
hope you and Gracie are well. I think it would be advisable to check Gracie's
appetite for candy. I am already realizing that luxury can be overdone. She
might turn her attention to peanuts, which I observe is a popular pastime
amongst the people with whom I have come into contact. I would suggest to the
old Dad that five-cent cigars have merits in spite of rumor to the contrary. I
feel, too, that the dollar ninety-five he would thus save on his smoke might, in
time, become a valuable asset. "Your loving son,   "GORDON." CHAPTER VI

GORDON PROSPECTS SNAKE'S FALL

It was a blazing day. The dust of the prairie street smothered boots and
trouser-legs with a fine gray powder which even rose high enough to get into the
throats of pedestrians, and drive them headlong to the nearest place where they
could hope to quench a raging thirst. There was no shelter from the sun, unless
it were to be found upon the verandas with which many of the Snake's Fall houses
were fronted. Gordon's face was rapidly blistering as he idly wandered through
the town. Great streams of perspiration coursed from beneath his soft felt hat.
His double collar felt sticky, and suggested imminent collapse. To all of which
discomforts were now added a swarm of flies buzzing about his moist face with a
distracting persistence which tried even his patience. Gordon was abroad fairly
early. He was abroad for several reasons. He possessed a haunting dread of the
rapid passing of time. He had slept healthily, if not altogether comfortably.
Nor had he yet made up his mind whether the floor of his room would not be
preferable to his bed for the passing of future nights. The floor was smooth,
there were no hummocks on it. Then, too, the sorely tried and thoroughly slack
bed-springs would be avoided, and the horrible groans of a protesting frame
would remain silent. It was a matter to be given consideration before the day
ended, and, being really of a very thorough nature, he decided to consider it
after supper. He had lain awake for a long time that first night under the
shelter of Peter McSwain's hospitable roof, and in the interim of dodging the
flock hummocks he had closely considered his future movements. He argued, if
things were as he had been told they were in Snake's Fall, he did not see how he
could do better than throw his lot in with the crowd of "ground sharks" awaiting
the boom. Having convinced himself in this direction, he felt that at the very
earliest opportunity he must reassure himself of Peter McSwain's veracity. He
felt that no member of the get-rich-quick brigade could dare to ignore the
claims of a great coal discovery about to boom. Besides, the whole thing had
been pitched into his lap; or rather it was he who had been pitched. Nor did the
roughness of the method of his arrival detract from the chances spreading out
before his astonished eyes. Now he was searching the place for those signs which
were to tell him of the accuracy of his information. Nor was it long before he
realized that such a search on his part was scarcely likely to prove productive.
His knowledge of coal had never been more intimate than the payment of certain
fuel bills presented to him at intervals in the past by the faithful Harding.
While as for indications of a boom--well, he had heard that a boom came along,
everybody robbed everybody else, and in the end a number of widows and orphans
found themselves deprived of their savings, and a considerable body of attorneys
had increased their year's income out of all proportion to their just deserts.
He felt his weakness keenly. However, he persisted. He felt the only thing was
to attack the problem with an open mind. He did so, and it quickly became filled
with a humorous interest that had nothing to do with his purpose. Surveying his
surroundings, he thought that never in his life had he even imagined such a
quaint collection of habitations. The long, straight street, running parallel to
the railroad track suggested a row of jagged, giant teeth. Each building was set
in its own section of jawbone, distinct from its nearest neighbor. Then they
reared their heads and terminated in a pointed fang or a flat, clean-cut edge of
high boarding. Sometimes they possessed a mere sloping roof, like a well-worn
tooth, and, here and there, a half-wrecked building, with its roof fallen in,
stood out like a severely decayed molar. Most of the stores--and he counted a
dozen or more--suggested a considerable trade. In this direction he noted a
hardware store particularly. A drug store, too, with an ice-cream soda fountain,
seemed to be in high favor, as also did several dry-goods stores, judging by the
number of females in attendance. But the small candy stores were abandoned to
the swarming flies. The people were interesting. There certainly was a
considerable number about, in spite of the heat. They, anyway the men, all
looked hot like himself, but seemed to be surcharged with an energy that
appeared to him somewhat artificial. They hurried unnecessarily. They paused and
spoke quickly, and passed on. Here and there they fell into groups, and their
boisterous laughter suggested the inevitable funny story or risque tale. There
were a great number of vehicles rattling about--buggies, buckboards, democrat
wagons--while several times he was passed by speeding saddle-horses which
smothered him in the dust raised by their unshod hoofs. At last he came to the
end of the street, and turned to retrace his steps. It was all too interesting
to be readily abandoned on this his first day beyond the conventions of life as
his father's son. Just outside a large livery barn he came to an abrupt halt,
and stood stupidly staring at the entrance of the largest dry-goods store in the
street. The whole thing had caught and held him in a moment. He seemed to
remember having seen something of the sort in a moving picture once; perhaps it
was years ago. But in real life--never. A great chestnut saddle-horse had dashed
up to the tying-post outside the store. It had reined up with a jerk, and its
rider had flung out of the saddle with the careless abandon he had read about or
seen in the pictures. Hooking the reins over a peg, the rider hurried towards
the store. It was then Gordon obtained a full view. In a moment the flies were
forgotten and the heat of the day meant nothing to him. What a vision was
revealed! The coiled masses of auburn hair, the magnificent hazel eyes and the
delightful sun-tanned oval of the face, the trim figure and perfect carriage,
the costume! The long habit coat and loose riding-breeches terminated in the
daintiest of tan riding-boots and silver spurs. Splendid! What a picture for his
admiring eyes! A picture of grace, and health, and beauty. But the vision was
gone in a moment. The girl had passed into the store, and it was only left to
the enthusiastic spectator to turn to the magnificent chestnut horse she had so
unconcernedly left waiting for her. Almost immediately, however, his attention
was diverted into another direction. A dark, sallow-faced man had promptly taken
up his position at the entrance of the store, and stood gazing in after the
vanished figure of the girl. For some absurd reason Gordon took an intense
dislike to the man. He looked unhealthy, and he hated that look in a man.
Besides, the impertinence of standing there spying upon a lady who was doubtless
simply bent on an ordinary shopping expedition. It was most exasperating. All
unconsciously he straightened his great figure and squared his shoulders. It
would not have required much to have made him go and ask the man what he meant
by it. He was rapidly working himself up into a superlative rage, when the girl
in the fawn riding-costume reappeared. A delightful smile broke over his good-
looking face, but only to be promptly swallowed up in a scowl. The girl had
paused, and was speaking to the anaemic creature whose presence he felt to be an
outrage. He noted her smile. What a delightful smile! Yes, he could distinctly
make out two dimples beyond the corners of her pretty mouth. His dislike of the
favored man merged into a regret for himself. Hello! The smile had gone from the
girl's face. Her beautiful hazel eyes were sparkling with resentment. The man
was looking angry, too. Gordon rubbed his hands. Then he began to grin like a
revengeful and malicious schoolboy. The girl had moved on to her horse, and in
doing so it almost looked as if she had deliberately pushed past the white-
livered creature attempting to detain her. She leaped into the saddle and swung
the horse about almost on its haunches. The next moment she was lost in a cloud
of dust as she raced down the street. "Mighty fine horsemanship that," said a
voice, as Gordon gazed open-mouthed after the girlish vision. "A smart gal, too,
eh?" Gordon turned. A small man was sitting at the open doors of the livery barn
upon an upturned box. He was leaning forward lazily, with his elbows on his
knees and his hands clutching his forearms. His towzled, straw-colored hair
stuck out under the brim of his prairie hat, and a chew of tobacco bulged one
thin, leathery cheek. His trousers were fastened about his waist with a strap,
and his only upper garment was a dirty cotton shirt which disclosed an expanse
of mahogany-colored chest below the neck. "Smart gal?" retorted Gordon
enthusiastically. "That don't say a thing. She might have stepped right out of
the pages of a book." Then he added, as an afterthought, "And it would have to
be a mighty good book, too." "Sure," nodded the other in agreement. "Who is
she?" The man grinned and spat. "Why, that's Miss Hazel. Every feller in this
city knows Miss Hazel. If you need eddication you want to see her astride of an
unbroken colt. Ther' never was a cowpuncher a circumstance aside o' her. She's
the dandiest horseman out." "I'd say you're right, all right." "Right? Guess
ther' ain't no argument. Hosses is my trade. I was born an' raised with 'em. It
don't take me guessin' twice 'bout a horseman. I got forty first-class hosses
right here in this barn, an' I got a bunch runnin' on old Mallinsbee's grazin'.
Y'see, a livery barn is a mighty busy place when a city starts to think o'
booming. All them rigs an' buggies you see chasin' around are hired right here,"
he finished up proudly. Gordon became interested. He felt the man was talking
because he wanted to talk. He was talking out of the prevailing excitement which
seemed to actuate everybody on the subject of the coming boom. He encouraged
him. "I'd say a livery barn should be a mighty fine speculation under these
conditions," he said, while the keen gray eyes of the barn proprietor quietly
sized him up. "There ought to be a pile hanging to it." "Ye-es." The man's demur
roused the other's curiosity. "Not?" he inquired. "'Tain't that. Ther's dollars
to it, but--they don't come in bunches. Y'see, I'm out after a wad--quick. We
all are. When the railroad talks we'll know where we are. But it's best to be in
before. See? Oh, I guess the barn's all right. 'Tain't that. Say, I'd hand you
this barn right here, every plug an' every rig I got, if you could jest answer
me one question--right." "And the question?" Gordon smiled. "Wher' is the
bloomin' depot to be? Here, or yonder to the west at Buffalo Point? Answer that
right, an' you can have this caboose a present." The little man sighed, and
Gordon began to understand the strain of waiting for these people looking for a
big pile quick. He shook his head. "I'm beginning to think I'd like to know
myself. Say, I s'pose you figure this is a great place to make money? I s'pose
you fancy it's a sure thing?" The man unfolded his arms and waved one hand in a
comprehensive gesture. "Do you need to ask me that?" he inquired, almost
scornfully. "What does them big coal seams tell you? Can you doubt? Hev' you got
two eyes to your head which don't convey no meaning to your brain? Them coal
seams could stoke hell till kingdom come, an' shares 'ud still be at a premium.
That's the backbone. Wal, we ain't got shares in that corporation, but the
quickest road to the pile o' dollars we're yearning for is in town plots. An',"
he added regretfully, "every day brings in more sharps, an' every new sharp
makes it harder. It's that blamed railroad we're waiting for, an' that railroad
needs to graft its way in before it'll talk." "Graft? Graft again," laughed
Gordon. "Why, cert'nly." The livery man opened his eyes in astonishment. "Folks
don't do nothin' for nix that I ever heard. Specially railroads. That depot 'll
be built where their interests lie, an' we'll have to go on guessin' till they
get things fixed." "I see." "Which says you ain't blind." "No, I don't think I'm
blind exactly. It's just--lack of experience. I must get a peek at those seams.
Mallinsbee's the man who'll know about things as soon as anybody, I s'pose. He
owns all the land along the railroad, doesn't he?" The man rubbed his hands and
grinned. "Sure. He'll know, an' through him us as he's let in on the ground
floor. Say, he's a heap of a good feller--an' bright. Y'see, him an' us, some of
us fellers who been here right along before the coal was found, are good
friends. There's some of us got stakes down Buffalo Point way as well as up
here. See? O' course, our pile lies Buffalo Point way, an' we're hopin' he'll
fix the railroad corporation that way. If he does, gee! he's the feller we're
gamblin' on." Gordon's interest had become almost feverish as he listened. He
was gathering the corroboration he needed with an ease he had never anticipated.
"I suppose one hundred thousand dollars would be nothing to make if--things go
right?" "If things go our way, I'd say a hundred thousand wouldn't be a
circumstance," cried the man enthusiastically. "I'd make that out of a few
hundred dollars without a worry--if things went right. But it ain't the way of
things to go right when you figger up." "No, I s'pose it's a matter of chance.
The chance comes, and you've just got to grab it right and hold it." "Sure.
Chance! If chance hits you, why, don't go to hit back. Jest hug it--same as you
would your best gal." Gordon laughed and peered into the shadowy interior of the
barn. "Guess that's good talk," he said, "and I'm going to listen. I've got
right hold of that chance, and I'm hugging it. Seems to me I'll need to get out
and get a peek at Silas Mallinsbee's coal. Can you hire me a rig?" "I got a
dandy top buggy an' team," cried the man, now alert and ready for business. "Ten
dollars to supper-time. How?" Gordon nodded, and the man vanished within the
barn. Left alone, he reflected on the rapidity of the movement of events. He had
had a luck that he surely could not have anticipated. Why, under the influence
of the prevailing enthusiasm of the place, he seemed to feel that the whole
thing was too utterly simple. He wondered what his father would have said had he
been there. It would be a glorious coup to return home with that one hundred
thousand dollars well before the expiry of his time limit. From the dark
interior of the barn came the sounds of horses' hoofs clattering on the boarded
floor. Presently his thoughts drifted from the important matters in hand to a
far less consequent matter. It was not in his nature to be long enamored of the
hunt for fortune, no matter what the consequences attached to it. He began to
think of the vision in fawn-colored riding-costume. So her name was Hazel. Hazel
--what? he wondered. A pretty name, and well suited to her. Hazel. Those eyes,
and the gorgeous masses of her hair! He sighed. For a moment he thought of
inquiring of the livery man her other name. Then he smilingly shook his head and
decided to let that remain a secret for the present. It added to the romance of
the thing. Of one thing he was certain: he must contrive to see her again, and
get to know her. Fortune or no fortune, if his father were to cut him off with
the proverbial shilling as a spendthrift and waster, if he never saw a
partnership in the greatest financial corporation in the United States, that
girl could not be allowed to flash into his life like a ray of spring sunshine,
and pass out of it again because he hadn't the snap to get to know her. He had
known so many women in his own set at home. He had admired, he had flirted
harmlessly enough, he had shed presents and given parties, but somehow he felt
that amongst all those society beauties there had not been one comparable to
this wild rose of the foothills. "Say, it's a bright team an' 'll need
handlin'," said the doubtful voice of the livery man. "Don't worry," returned
Gordon, shocked into the affairs of the moment by the anxious voice. "Good." The
man sounded relieved. "Which is the best way?" "Why, chase the trail straight
away west. You can't miss it. I'll take that ten dollars." Gordon paid and
climbed into the buggy. The next moment the vehicle rolled out of the barn.
CHAPTER VII

"MISS HAZEL"

Gordon was in no mood to take things easily. Something of the atmosphere of the
place had already got into his blood. His was similar to the mood of those whom
he had seen hurrying unnecessarily in the town. Those whom he had seen
exchanging hurried words and passing on. Although he lived in the age of
automobiles and aeroplanes, nothing of his education had been forgotten by his
father. He was a perfect whip with a four-in-hand, and now, as he handled a
"bright" team of livery horses, it was child's play to him. He bustled his
horses until he had left the ragamuffin town behind him, then he settled down to
a steady, round gait, and gave himself up to the prospect of the contemplation
of those scenes of industry which he shortly hoped to discover. Within ten
minutes of leaving the town he discovered the first signs. Men and horses
appeared in the distance upon the hills. At one point he discerned a traction
engine hauling a string of laden wagons. It was the first breaking up of the
monotonous green of the low hills. And it promptly suggested that, in the hidden
hollows, he would probably discover far more energetic signs of the work of the
coal corporation, which doubtless must have already begun in real earnest.
Things were becoming interesting. He wondered how much work had been done. There
was no sign of the coal itself yet. He remembered to have visited coal mines
once, and then everything had been black and gloomy. Vast heaps of slack had
been piled everywhere, and the pit heads had been surmounted by hauling
machinery. There had been great black wastes dotted by houses and streets, which
seemed to have taken to themselves something of the hue of the deposits which
had brought them into existence. Even the men and women, and particularly the
children, had been living advertisements for the great industry which supported
them. Here, as yet, there were no such signs. However, doubtless further on
there would----

All in a moment his thoughts of coal were broken off, and all his interest
vanished like a puff of that coal's smoke in a gale. Coal no longer meant
anything to him. He didn't care if the whole wide world starved for coal for all
eternity. A chestnut horse was on the trail ahead, and a figure was stooping
beside it examining its nearside forefoot. The figure was clad in a _fawn-
colored riding-costume_. The electric current of his feelings communicated
itself to his team through the whip as its conductor. The team reared and
plunged, then, under his strong hands, they bowled merrily along the dusty trail
at a great though well-controlled speed towards the distant figures. The girl
dropped the horse's hoof and straightened herself abruptly. She turned with a
quick movement, and gazed back over the trail, her eyes alert and questioning.
Her wide prairie hat was thrust slightly from her forehead, and a coil of
abundant auburn hair was displayed beneath its brim. Her finely penciled
eyebrows were drawn together in an unmistakable question, and her pretty eyes
were obviously speculative. She waited while the buggy drew nearer. She
recognized the team as from Mike Callahan's barn, but the occupant of the
vehicle was a stranger to her. The latter fact drew her attention more closely.
For a moment she had hoped that it was someone she knew. She needed someone she
knew just now. Anyway, a stranger was always interesting, even though he could
not afford her the assistance she just now happened to need. She descried a
boyish, eager face on the top of a pair of wonderful shoulders. But that which
made a strong appeal to her was the manner in which he was handling his horses.
There was nothing here of the slovenly prairie teamster. The stranger, whoever
he was, was a master behind a good team of horses. She delighted in a horseman,
whether he were in the driving-seat or the saddle. But all of a sudden she
became aware that her regard had been observed, and, with a little smile
twinkling in the depths of her hazel eyes, she picked up her horse's forefoot
again, and once more probed with her gauntleted finger for the cause of the
desperate lameness with which he had been suddenly attacked. She heard the buggy
come up. She was aware that the team had swung out to avoid collision. Then a
cheery voice greeted her ears with its pleasant and welcome inquiry--

"You seem to be in a fix. Can I help any?" Before the girl looked round she was
aware that the teamster had alighted. Then when she finally released her hold of
the injured hoof, and stood up, she found herself confronted by Gordon's smiling
blue eyes, as he stood bare-headed before her. Somehow or other a smiling
response was unavoidable. "That's real kind of you," she said, "but I don't
guess you can. You see, poor Sunset's dead lame with a flint in his frog, and--
and I just can't get the fool thing out." Gordon endeavored to look serious. But
the trouble was incomparable in his mind with the delightful charm of this girl,
in her divided riding-suit. However, his effort to conceal his admiration was
not without some success. "I don't guess we can stand for any old thing like an
impertinent flint," he said impulsively. "Sunset must be relieved. Sunset must
be put out of pain. I'm not just a veterinary surgeon, but I'm a specialist on
the particular flint which happens to annoy you. Just grab these lines while I
have a look." The frank unconventionality of the man was wholly pleasing, and
the girl found herself obeying him without question. "It's the nearside," she
explained. Then she remained silent, watching the assured manner in which the
stranger set about his work. He picked up the hoof and examined it closely. Then
he drew out a folding button-hook from a trouser pocket. Then, for a few
moments, she watched his deft manipulation of it. Presently he stood up holding
a long, thin, sharp splinter of flint between finger and thumb. "Say," he
remarked, as he returned the buttonhook to his pocket, while his eyes shone
merrily, "I believe if some bright geologist were to set out chasing these
flints to their lair, I've a notion he'd pull up in--in--well, aspirate a
certain measure in cloth and I'd guess you get the answer right away. It's paved
with 'em. That's my secret belief. I could write a treatise on 'em. I've
discovered every breed and every species. I tell you if you want to study these
rocks right, you need to run an automobile, and find yourself in a hurry, having
forgotten to carry spare tires. Ugh!" He flung the stone away from him and
turned again to the horse. Still watching him, the girl saw him deliberately
tear off a piece of his handkerchief, and, with the point of his pocket-knife,
stuff it into the jagged gash in poor Sunset's frog. "That'll keep out some of
Snake's Fall," he observed, returning the rest of his handkerchief to his
pocket. "We'll take it out when we get him home." Then he deliberately turned to
his team and tied Sunset alongside. After that, in the most practical manner, he
moved the wheels of the buggy apart. "Jump right in. Guess you know the way, so
you can show it me. You see, I'm a stranger. Say, it's an awful thing to be a
stranger. Life's rotten being a stranger." The girl was gazing at him with wide,
wondering eyes that were half inclined to resentment. She was not accustomed to
being ordered about in this cavalier fashion. She had no intention of being
incontinently swept off her feet. "Thanks," she said, with an assumption of
hauteur. "If you'll untie Sunset I'll ride home." "Ride home? Say, you're
joking. Why, you can't ride Sunset with that gash in his frog. Say, you couldn't
be so cruel. Think of the poor fellow silently suffering. Think of the mute
anguish he would endure at each step. It--it would be a crime, an outrage, a--
a----"  He broke off, his eyes twinkling merrily. The girl wanted to be annoyed.
She told herself she was annoyed, but she nevertheless began to laugh, and
Gordon knew he was to have his way. "I really couldn't think of accepting
your----  Besides, you weren't going to Buffalo Point. You know you weren't."
"Do I?" Gordon's eyes were blankly inquiring. "Now how on earth do I know where
I was going? Say, I guess it's true I had in my mind a vision of the glinting
summer sun, tinting the coal heaps with its wonderful, golden, ripening rays--
though I guess it would be some work ripening stove coal--but as to my ever
getting there--well, that just depended on the trail I happened to take. As I
said, I'm a stranger. And I may as well admit right here that I've a hobby
getting mussed up with wrong trails." The girl's laughter dispelled her last
effort at dignity. "I knew you were a stranger. You see, I get to know everybody
here--by sight." Gordon made a gesture of annoyance. "There," he exclaimed in
self-disgust, "I ought to have thought of that before. How on earth could I
expect you to ride in a stranger's buggy, with said stranger on the business end
of the lines? Then the hills are so near. Why, you might be spirited off
goodness knows where, and your loving relatives never, never hear of you no
more, and----  Say, we can easily fix that though. My name's--Van Henslaer.
Gordon Van Henslaer from New York. Now if you tell me--what's the matter?" A
merry peal of laughter had greeted his announcement, and Gordon looked on in
pretended amazement, waiting for her mirth to subside. "Oh dear, oh dear," the
girl cried at last. "I might have known. Say, of course I ought to have known.
You came here yesterday on the train--by mistake. You----"

"That's so. I'd booked through to Seattle, but--some interfering pack of fools
guessed I'd made a--mistake,"

The girl nodded. Her pretty eyes were still dancing with merriment. "Father came
by the same train, and told me of someone who got mixed up in--in a fight, and
they threw----"

"Don't say another word," Gordon cried hurriedly. "I'm--I'm the man. And your
father is----?" "Mallinsbee--Silas Mallinsbee!" "Then you are Hazel Mallinsbee."
"How do you know my first name?" "Why, I saw you in town, and the livery man
told me you were 'Miss Hazel.' Say, this is bully. Now we aren't strangers, and
you can ride in my buggy without any question. Jump right in, and I'll drive you
--where is it?" Hazel Mallinsbee obeyed without further demur. She sprang into
the vehicle, and Gordon promptly followed. The next moment they were moving on
at a steady, sober pace. "It's Buffalo Point," the girl directed. "It's only
four miles. Then you can go on and enjoy your beautiful pathetic picture of the
coal workings. But you won't have much time if we travel at this gait," she
added slyly. Gordon shook his head. "It's Sunset," he said. "We must consider
his poor foot." There was laughter in Hazel's eyes as she sighed. "Poor Sunset.
Perhaps--you're right." "Without a doubt," Gordon laughed. "He might get blood
poisoning, or cancer, or dyspepsia, or something if we bustled him." Hazel
pointed a branching trail to the north. "That's the trail," she said. "Father's
at home. He'll be real glad to see you. Say, you know father ought to know
better--at his age. He--he just loves a scrap. He was telling me about you, and
saying how you 'hammered'--that's the word he used--the 'sharp.' He was most
upset that the train crew spoiled the finish. You know father's a great
scallywag. I don't believe he thinks he's a day over twenty. It's--it's dreadful
--with a grown-up daughter. He's--just a great big boy for all his gray hair.
You should just see him out on the range. He's got all the youngsters left
standing. It must be grand to grow old like he does." Gordon listened to the
girl's rich tones, and the enthusiasm lying behind her words, and somehow the
whole situation seemed unreal. Here he was driving one of the most perfectly
delightful girls he had ever met to her home, within twenty-four hours of his
absurd arrival in a still more absurd town. Nor was she any mere country girl.
Her whole style spoke of an education obtained at one of the great schools in
the East. Her costume might have been tailored on Fifth Avenue, New York. Yet
here she was living the life of the wonderful sunlit prairie, the daughter of an
obscure rancher in the foothills of the Rockies. "Say, your father is just a
bully feller," he agreed quickly. "He didn't know me from--a grasshopper, but he
did me all sorts of a good service. It don't matter what it was. But it was one
of those things which between men count a whole heap." The girl's enthusiasm
waxed. "Father's just as good as--as he's clever. But," she added tenderly,
"he's a great scallywag. Oh dear, he'll never grow up." A few minutes later she
pointed quickly ahead with one gauntleted hand. "That's Buffalo Point," she
said. "There where that house is. That's our house, and beyond it, half a mile,
you can see the telegraph poles of the railroad track." Gordon gazed ahead. They
still had a good mile to go. The lonely house fixed his attention. "Say, isn't
there a village?" he inquired. "Buffalo Point?" The girl shook her head. "No.
Just that little frame house of ours. Father had it built as--a sort of office.
You see, we're both working hard on his land scheme. You see, it's--it's our
hobby, the same as losing trails is yours." Gordon laughed. "That's plumb
spoiled my day. I'd forgotten the land business. Now it's all come over me like
a chill, like the drip of an ice wagon down the back of my neck. I s'pose
there'll always be land around, and we've always got to have coal. It seems a
pity, doesn't it. Say, there hasn't been a soul I've met in twenty-four hours,
but they've been crazy on--on town sites. They're most ridiculous things, town
sites. Four pegs and four imaginary lines, a deal of grass with a substrata of
crawly things. And for that men would scrap, and cheat, and rob, and--and graft.
It's--a wonder." Hazel Mallinsbee checked her inclination to laugh again. Her
eyes were gazing ahead at the little frame house, and they grew wistfully
serious. "It isn't the land," she said simply. "The scrap, and cheat, and rob,
and graft, are right. But it's the fight for fortune. Fortune?" she smiled.
"Fortune means everything to a modern man. To some women, too, but not quite in
the way it does to a man. You see, in olden days competition took a different
form. I don't know if, in spite of what folks say about the savagery of old
times, they weren't more honest and wholesome than they are now. However,
nature's got to compete for something. Human nature's got to beat someone. Life
is just one incessant rivalry. Well, in old times it took the form of bloodshed
and war, when men counted with pride the tally of their victories. Now we point
with pride to our civilization, and gaze back in pity upon our benighted
forefathers. Instead of bloodshed, killing, fighting, massacring and all the old
bad habits of those who came before us, we point our civilization by lying,
cheating, robbing and grafting." Gordon smiled. "Put that way it sounds as
though the old folks were first-class saints compared with us. There's a deal of
honesty when two fellers get right up on their hind legs and start in to mush
each other's faces to a pulp. But it isn't just the same when you creep up while
the other feller isn't wise and push the muzzle of a gun into his middle and
riddle his stomach till it's like a piece of gruyere cheese." Hazel shook her
head. Her eyes were still smiling, but Gordon detected something of the serious
thought behind them. He vainly endeavored to sober his mood in sympathy. "Guess
it's the refinement of competition due to the claims of our much proclaimed
culture and civilization. I think civilization is a--a dreadful mockery. To call
it a whitewash would be a libel on a perfectly innocent, wholesome, sanitary
process. That's how I always feel when I stop to think. But--but," her eyes
began to dance with a joyous enthusiasm, "I don't often think--not that way.
Say, I just love the battle, I mean the modern battle for fortune. It's--it's
almost the champagne of life. I know only one thing to beat it." Gordon had
forgotten the team he was driving, and let them amble leisurely on towards the
house, now so rapidly approaching. "What's--the real champagne?" he inquired.
The girl turned and gazed at him with wide eyes. "Why," she cried. "Life--just
life itself. What else? Say, think of the moment your eyes open to the splendid
sunlight of day. Think of the moment you realize you are living--living--living,
after a long, delicious night's sleep. Think of all the perfect moments awaiting
you before night falls, and you seek your bed again. It is just the very essence
of perfect joy." "It's better after breakfast, and you've had time to get around
some." The ardor of the girl's mood received a sudden douche. Just for a moment
a gleam of displeasure shadowed her eyes. Then a twinkling smile grew, and the
clouds dispersed. "Isn't that just a man? Where's your enthusiasm? Where's your
joy of life? Where's your romance, and--and spirit of hope?" A great pretense of
reproach lay in her rapid questions. "Oh, they're all somewhere lying around, I
guess," returned Gordon simply. "Those things are all right, sure. But--but it's
a mighty tough proposition worrying that way on--on an empty stomach. It seems
to me that's just one of life's mistakes. There ought to be a law in Congress
that a feller isn't allowed to--to think till he's had his morning coffee. The
same law might provide for the fellow who fancies himself a sort of canary and
starts right in to sing before he's had his bath. I'd have him sent to the
electric chair. That sort of fellow never has a voice worth two cents, and he
most generally has a repertoire of songs about as bright as Solomon's, and a
mighty deal older. Sure, Miss Mallinsbee, I haven't a word to say against life
in a general way, but it's about as wayward as a spoilt kid, and needs as much
coaxing." Hazel Mallinsbee watched the play of the man's features while he
talked. She knew he meant little or nothing of what he said. The fine, clear
eyes, the smiling simplicity and atmosphere of virile youth about him, all
denied the sentiments he was giving vent to. She nodded as he finished. "At
first I thought you meant all--that," she said lightly. "But now I know you're
just talking for talking's sake." Then, before he could reply, she pointed
excitedly at the house, now less than a hundred yards away. "Why, there's
father, standing right there on the veranda!" she exclaimed. Gordon looked
ahead. The old man was waving one great hand to his daughter. CHAPTER VIII

AT BUFFALO POINT

To Gordon's mind Hazel Mallinsbee attached far greater importance to her
father's presence on the veranda than the incident warranted. It did not seem to
him that there was the least necessity for his being there at all. Truth to
tell, the matter appeared to him to be a perfect nuisance. He had rather liked
Silas Mallinsbee when he had met him under somewhat distressing circumstances in
the town. Now he felt a positive dislike for him. His strong, keen, benevolent
face made no appeal to his sympathies now whatsoever. Besides, it did not seem
right that any man who claimed parentage of such a delightful daughter as the
girl at his side should slouch about in a pair of old trousers tucked into top-
boots and secured about his waist by a narrow strap. And it seemed positively
indecent that he should display no other upper garment than a cotton shirt of
such a doubtful hue that it was impossible to be sure of its sanitary condition.
However, he allowed none of these feelings betrayal, and replied appropriately
to Hazel's excited announcement. He was glad, later, he had exercised such
control, for their arrival at the house was the immediate precursor of an
invitation to share their midday meal, which had already been placed on the
table by the silent, inscrutable Hip-Lee, the Chinese cook and general servitor
in this temporary abode. The horses had been housed and fed in the temporary
stable at the back of the house, and a committee of three had sat upon Sunset's
injury and prescribed for and treated it. Now they were indoors, ready for the
homely meal set out for them. Hip-Lee moved softly about setting an additional
place at the table for the visitor. Silas Mallinsbee was lounging in the
doorway, looking out across the veranda. Hazel was superintending Hip-Lee's
efforts. Gordon was endeavoring to solve the problem of the rapid and unexpected
happenings which had befallen him since his arrival, and at the same time carry
on a conversation with the rumbling-voiced originator of Snake's Fall boom. "At
one time I guessed I'd bumped right into the hands of the Philistines," he said.
"That's when I was--er arriving. Since then a Samaritan got busy my way and
dumps me right down in the heart of the Promised Land, which just now seems to
be flowing with milk and honey. I set out to view the dull black mountains of
industry, and instead I arrive at the sparkling plains of delightful ease. Mr.
Mallinsbee, you certainly have contrived to put me under enormous obligation."
Gordon's eyes were pleasantly following the movements of the girl's graceful
figure about the plain but neat parlor. "I suppose all offices in the West are
not like this, because----"

Mallinsbee rumbled a pleasant laugh. "Office?" he said, without turning. "That's
jest how Hazel calls it. Guess she's got notions since she finished off her
education at Boston. She's got around with a heap of 'em, includin' that suit
she's wearin'. Y'see, she's my foreman hoss-breaker, and reckons skirts and
things are--played out. Office? Why, it's just a shack. Some time you must get
around out an' see the ranch house. It's some place," he added with simple
pride. Hazel went up to her father and pretended to threaten him by the neck.
"See, Daddy, you can just quit telling about my notions to--folks. Anyway"--she
turned her back to Gordon--"I appeal to you, Mr. Van Henslaer, isn't an office a
place where folks transact big deals and make fortunes?" "That's how folks
reckon when they rent them," said Gordon. "Of course, I've known folks to sleep
in 'em. Others use 'em as a sort of club smoking lounge. Then they've been known
to serve some men as a shelter from--home. I used to have an office." Silas
Mallinsbee turned from his contemplation of the horizon. He was interested, and
his shrewd eyes displayed the fact. Hazel clapped her hands. "And what did you
use it for?" she demanded quizzically. "I--oh, I--let's see. Well, mostly an
address from which to have word sent to folks I didn't want to see that--I was
out. I used to find it useful that way." Mallinsbee's chuckle amused Gordon, but
Hazel assumed an air of judicial severity. "A spirit not to be encouraged."
Then, at the sound of her father's chuckle, "My daddy, you are as bad as he. Now
food's ready, so please sit in. We can talk easier around a table than when
people are dreaming somewhere in the distance on the horizon, or walking about a
room that isn't bigger than the bare size to sit in. Anyway, Mr. Van Henslaer,
this office is for business. I won't have it disparaged by my daddy, or--or
anyone else. It serves a great purpose so far as we're concerned." Then she
added slyly, "You see, we're in the throes of the great excitement of making a
huge pile, for the sheer love of making it. Aren't we, Daddy, dear?" Silas
Mallinsbee looked up from the food he was eating with the air of a man who only
eats as a matter of sheer necessity. "Say, Mr. Van Henslaer," he said in his
deep tones, "I've been a rancher all my life. Cattle, to me, are just about the
only things in the world worth while, 'cept horses. I've never had a care or
thought outside 'em, till one day I got busy worrying what was under the ground
instead of keeping to the things I understood above the ground. Y'see, the
trouble was two things," he went on, smiling tenderly in his daughter's
direction. "One was I'd fed the ranch stoves with surface coal that you could
find almost anywheres on my land, and the other was the fates just handed me the
picture of a daughter who caught the dangerous disease of 'notions' way down
east at school in Boston. Since she's come along back to us I've had coal, coal,
coal all chasin' through my head, an' playing baseball with every blamed common-
sense idea that ever was there before. Wal, to tell things quick, I made a
mighty big pile out of that coal just to please her. We didn't need it, but she
guessed it was up to me to do this. But that didn't finish it. This gal here
couldn't rest at that. She guessed that pile was made and done with. She needs
to get busy in another direction. Well, she gets to work, and has all my land on
the railroads staked out into a township, and reckons it's a game worth playing.
The other was too dead easy. This time she reckons to measure her brains and
energy against a railroad! She reckons to show that we can match, and beat, any
card they can play. That's the reason of this office." Hazel laughed and raised
an admonishing finger at the smiling face and twinkling eyes of her father.
"What did I tell you, Mr. Van Henslaer?" she cried. "Didn't I say he was just a
scallywag? Oh, my great, big daddy, I'm dreadfully, dreadfully ashamed and
disappointed in you. I'm going to give you away. I am, surely. There, there, Mr.
Van Henslaer, sits the wicked plotter and schemer. Look at him. A big, burly
ruffian that ought to know better. Look at him," she went on, pointing a
dramatic finger at him. "And he isn't even ashamed. He's laughing. Now listen to
me. I'm going to tell you my version. He's a rancher all right, all right. He's
been satisfied with that all his life, and prosperity's never turned him down.
Then one day he found coal, and did nothing. We just used to talk of it, that
was all. Then another day along comes a friend, a very, very old friend and
neighbor, whom he's often helped. He came along and got my daddy to sell him a
certain patch of grazing--just to help him out, he said. He was a poor man, and
my big-hearted daddy sold it him at a rock-bottom price to make it easy for him.
Three months later they were mining coal on it--anthracite coal. That fellow
made a nice pile out of it. He'd bluffed my daddy, and my daddy takes a bluff
from no man. Well, say, he just nearly went crazy being bested that way, and he
said to me--these were his words: 'Come on, my gal, you and me are just goin' to
show folks what we're made of. If there's money in my land we're going to make
all we need before anyone gets home on us. I'm goin' to show 'em I'm a match for
the best sharks our country can produce--and that's some goin'.' There sits the
money-spinner. There! Look at him; he's self-confessed. I'm just his clerk, or
decoy, or--or any old thing he needs to help him in his wicked, wicked schemes!"
Mallinsbee sat chuckling at his daughter's charge, and Gordon, watching him,
laughed in chorus. "I'm kind of sorry, Mr. Mallinsbee, to have had to listen to
such a tale," he said at last, with pretended seriousness, "but I guess you're
charged, tried, convicted and sentenced. Seeing there's just two of you, it's up
to me to give the verdict Guilty!" he declared. "Have you any reason to show why
sentence should not be passed upon you? No? Very well, then. I sentence you to
make that pile, without fail, in a given time. Say six months. Failing which
you'll have the satisfaction of knowing that you have assisted in the ruin of an
innocent life." In the midst of the lightness of the moment Gordon had suddenly
taken a resolve. It was one of those quick, impulsive resolves which were
entirely characteristic of him. There was nothing quite clear in his mind as to
any reason in his decision. He was caught in the enthusiasm of his admiration of
the fair oval face of his hostess, whose unconventional camaraderie so appealed
to his wholesome nature; he was caught by the radiance of her sunny smile, by
the laughing depths of her perfect hazel eyes. Nor was the manner of the man,
her father, without effect upon his responsive, simple nature. But his sentence
on Silas Mallinsbee had caught and held both father's and daughter's attention,
and excited their curiosity. "Why six months?" smiled Hazel. "Say, it's sure
some time limit," growled Mallinsbee. Gordon assumed an air of judicial
severity. "Is the court to be questioned upon its powers?" he demanded. "There
is a law of 'contempt,'" he added warningly. But his warning was without effect.
"And the innocent's ruin?" demanded Hazel. The answer came without a moment's
hesitation. "Mine," said Gordon. And his audience, now with serious eyes, waited
for him to go on. Hip-Lee had brought in the sweet, and vanished again in his
silent fashion. Then Gordon raised his eyes from his plate and glanced at his
host. They wandered across to and lingered for a moment on the strong young face
of the girl. Then they came back to his plate, and he sighed. "Say, if there's
one thing hurts me it's to hear everybody telling a yarn, and my not having one
to throw back at 'em," he said, smiling down at the simple baked custard and
fruit he was devouring. "Just now I'm not hurt a thing, however, so that remark
don't apply. You see, my yarn's just as simple and easy as both of yours, and I
can tell it in a sentence. My father's sent me out in the world with a stake of
my own naming to make one hundred thousand dollars in six months!" He was
surprised to witness, the dramatic effect of his announcement. Hazel's
astonishment was serious and frankly without disguise. But her father's was less
marked by outward expression. It was only obvious from the complete lack of the
smile which had been in his shrewd eyes a moment before. "One hundred thousand
dollars in six months!" Hazel exclaimed. She had narrowly escaped scalding
herself with the coffee Hip-Lee had just served. She set her cup down hastily.
"Guess your father's takin' a big chance," said Mallinsbee thoughtfully. But
their serious astonishment was too great a strain for Gordon. He began to laugh.
"It's my belief life's too serious to be taken seriously, so the chance he's
taken don't worry me as, maybe, it ought," he said. "You see, my father's a good
sportsman, and he sees most things the way every real sportsman sees 'em--where
his son's concerned. Morally I owe him one hundred thousand dollars. I say
morally. Well, I guess we talked together some. I--well, maybe I made a big
talk, like fellows of my age and experience are liable to make to a fellow of my
father's age and experience. Then I sort of got a shock, as sometimes fellows of
my age making a big talk do. In about half a minute I found a new meaning for
the word 'bluff.' I thought I'd got its meaning right before that. I thought I
could teach my father all there was to know about bluff. You see, I'd forgotten
he'd lived thirty-three more years than I had. Bluff? Why, I'd never heard of it
as he knew it. The result is I've got to make one hundred thousand dollars in
six months or forfeit my legitimate future." Then he added with the gayest, most
buoyant laugh, "Say, it's a terrible thing to think of. It's dead serious. It's
as serious as an inter-university ball game." The lurking smile had returned to
Mallinsbee's eyes, and Hazel frankly joined in Gordon's laugh. "And you've come
to Snake's Fall to--to make it?" she cried. "I can't just say that," returned
Gordon. "No." Mallinsbee shook his head, and the two men exchanged meaning
glances. Then the old man went on with his food and spoke between the mouthfuls.
"You had an office?" "Sure. You see, I was my father's secretary." "Secretary?"
Mallinsbee looked up quickly. Gordon nodded. "That's what he called me. I drew
the salary--and my allowance. It was an elegant office--what little I remember
of it." The old man's regard was very nearly a broad laugh. "Say, you made a
talk about an 'innocent's' life gettin' all mussed up?" Gordon nodded with
profound seriousness. "Sure," he replied. "Mine. I don't guess you'll deny my
innocence." Mallinsbee shook his head. "Good," Gordon went on; "that makes it
easy. If you don't make good I lose my chance. I'm going to put my stake in your
town plots." The rancher regarded him steadily for some moments. Then--

"Say, what's your stake?" he inquired abruptly. Gordon had nothing to hide.
There was, it seemed to him, a fatal magnetism about these people. The girl's
eyes were upon him, full of amused delight at the story he had told; while her
father seemed to be driving towards some definite goal. "Five thousand dollars.
That and a few hundred dollars I had to my credit at the bank. It don't sound
much," he added apologetically, "but perhaps it isn't quite impossible." "I
don't guess there's a thing impossible in this world for the feller who's got to
make good," said Mallinsbee. "You see, you've got to make good, and it don't
matter a heap if your stake's five hundred or five thousand. Say, talk's just
about the biggest thing in life, but it's made up of hot air, an' too much hot
air's mighty oppressive. So I'll just get to the end of what I've to say as
sudden as I can. I guess my gal's right, I'm just crazy to beat the 'sharps' on
this land scoop, and I'm going to do it if I get brain fever. Now it's quite a
proposition. I've got to play the railroad and all these ground sharks, and see
I get the juice while they only get the pie-crust. I'm needing a--we'll call him
a secretary. Hazel is all sorts of a bright help, but she ain't a man. I need a
feller who can swear and scrap if need be, and one who can scratch around with a
pen in odd moments. This thing is a big fight, and the man who's got the biggest
heart and best wind's going to win through. My wind's sound, and I ain't heard
of any heart trouble in my family. Now you ken come in in town plots so that
when the boom comes they'll net you that one hundred thousand dollars. You don't
need to part with that stake--yet. The deal shall be on paper, and the cash
settlement shall come at the finish. Meanwhile, if need be, for six months
you'll put in every moment you've got on the work of organizing this boom. Maybe
we'll need to scrap plenty. But I don't guess that'll come amiss your way. We'll
hand this shanty over for quarters for you, and we'll share it as an office.
This ain't philanthropy; it's business. The man who's got no more sense than to
call a bluff to make one hundred thousand dollars in six months is the man for
me. He'll make it or he won't. And, anyway, he's going to make things busy for
six months. You ain't a 'sharp' now--or I wouldn't hand you this talk. But I'm
guessin' you'll be mighty near one before we're through. We've got to graft, and
graft plenty, which is a play that ain't without attractions to a real bright
feller. You see, money's got a heap of evil lyin' around its root--well, the
root of things is gener'ly the most attractive. Guess I've used a deal of hot
air in makin' this proposition, but you won't need to use as much in your answer
--when you've slept over it. Say, if food's through we'll get busy, Hazel." Mrs.
James Carbhoy was in bed when she received her morning's mail. Perhaps she and
her millionaire husband were unusually old-fashioned in their domestic life.
Anyway, James Carbhoy's presence in the great bedstead beside her was made
obvious by the heavy breathing which, in a less wealthy man, might have been
called snoring, and the mountainous ridge of bedclothes which covered his
monumental bulk. A querulous voice disturbed his dreams. He heard it from afar
off, and it merged with the scenes he was dwelling upon. A panic followed. He
had made a terrible discovery. It was his wife, and not the president of a rival
railroad, who was stealing the metals of a new track he was constructing as fast
as he could lay them. He awoke in a cold sweat. He thought he was lying in the
cutting beside the track. His wife had vanished. He rubbed his eyes. No, she
hadn't. There she was, sitting up in bed with a sheaf of papers in her hand. He
felt relieved. Now her plaint penetrated to his waking consciousness. "For
goodness' sake, James," she cried, "quit snoring and wake up. I wish you'd pay
attention when I'm speaking. I'm all worried to death." The multi-millionaire
yawned distressingly. "Most folks are worried in the morning. I'm worried, too.
Go to sleep. You'll feel better after a while." "It's nothing to do with the
morning," complained his wife. "It's--it's a letter from Gordon. The poor boy
writes such queer letters. It's all through you being so hard on him. You never
did have any feeling for--for anybody. I'm sure he's suffering. He never talked
this way before. Maybe he don't get enough to eat; he don't say where he is
either. Perhaps he's just nowhere in particular. You'd better ring up an inquiry
bureau----"

"For goodness' sake read the letter," growled the drowsy man. "You're making as
much fuss as a hen with bald chicks." Mrs. Carbhoy withered her husband with a
glance that fell only upon the back of his great head. But she had her way. She
meant him to share in her anxiety through the text of the, to her,
incomprehensible letter. She read slowly and deliberately, and in a voice
calculated to rivet any wandering attention. "DEAREST MUM:

"There's folks who say that no man knows the real meaning of luck, good or bad,
till he takes to himself a wife. This may be right. My argument is, it's only
partially so. There may be considerable luck about matrimony. For instance, if
any fool man came along and married our Gracie he'd be taking quite a chance.
Her native indolence and peevishness suggest possibilities. Her tongue is
vitriolic in one so young, as I have frequently had reason to observe. This
would certainly be a case where the man would learn the real meaning of luck.
But there wouldn't be a question. His luck would be out--plumb out. Jonah would
have been a mascot beside him. "This is by the way. "I argue luck can be
appreciated fully through channels less worrying. When luck gets busy around its
coming is kind of subtle. It's sudden, too; kind of butts in unnoticed,
sometimes painfully, and generally without shouting. Maybe it happens with a
bump or a jar. Personally I'm betting on the 'bump' play. A bump of that nature
got busy my way when I arrived here. I now have a full appreciation of luck.
Quite as full an appreciation as the man would who married our Gracie. But in my
case I guess it's good luck. This isn't going to tell you all that's in my mind,
but, seeing I haven't fallen for fiction yet, I guess I won't try to be more
explicit. Luck, in my present position, means the coming responsibility of
success. You might hand this on to the old Dad. "Talking of the old Dad, it
seems to me that, for a delicate digestion, baked custard and fruit have
advantages over ice-cream as a sweet. This again is by the way. "In my last
letter I gave you a few first impressions on arrival at my destination. Now, if
you'll permit, I'll add what I might call the maturer reflections of a mind wide
awake to life as it really is, and to the inner meaning of those things which
are so carefully hidden from one brought up in luxury, as I have been. One of
the 'dead snips' this way is that cleverness and wisdom are often confused by
the ignorant. Cleverness don't mean wisdom, and--vice versa. For instance,
loafing idly down a main street six inches deep in a dust that would shame a
blizzard when the wind blows, with a blazing sun scorching the marrow of the
spine till it's ready to be spread out on toast, escorted by an army of
disgusting flies moving in massed formation, and not knowing better than to
drive your soul to perdition through the channel of extreme bad language, don't
suggest cleverness. Yet there may surely be a deal of wisdom in it if it only
keeps you from doing something a heap more foolish. Maybe this don't sound
altogether bright, but there's quite a deal in it. Think it out. Another thought
is that learning's quite a sound proposition. For instance, a superficial
knowledge of geology may come mighty handy at unexpected moments. A knowledge of
this served me at a critical moment only to-day. So you see an intimate
acquaintance with sharp flints, collected--the acquaintance, not the flints--
during my time as the possessor of an automobile, which the Dad provided me with
and for the upkeep of which he so kindly paid, has likely had more influence
upon my future life than the best talk ever handed out by a Fifth Avenue
preacher ever would have done. I have no thought of being irreverent. I am
merely handing you a fact. People say that missed opportunities always make you
hate to think of them in after life. For my part, I've generally figured this to
be the philosophic hot air of a man who's getting old and hates to see youth
around him, or else the chin mush of some fool man who's never had any
opportunities, talking through the roof of his head. I kind of see it different
now. You gave me the opportunity of studying all the beauties of the world seen
through an artist's life. I guessed at the time that would be waste of precious
moments that might be spent chasing athletics. It's only to-day I've got wise to
what a heap I've lost in twenty-four years. Colors just seemed to me messy
mixtures only fit to spoil paper and canvas with. Well, to-day I've hit on
something in the way of color that's just about set me crazy to see it all the
time. It's a sort of yellowy, greeny brown. That don't sound as merry as it
might, but to me it talks plenty. It's just the dandiest color ever. I
discovered it out on a 'long, lone trail'--that's how folks talk in books--where
the surroundings weren't any improvement on just plain grass. Say, Mum, I guess
that color is great. It gets a grip on you so you don't seem to care if a local
freight train comes along and dissects your vitals, and chews them up ready for
making a delicatessen sausage. When I die I'll just have to have my shroud dyed
that color, and my coffin fixed that way, too. "This isn't so much of a passing
thought as the others. Guess some folks might figure it to be a disease. Maybe
the old Dad would. Well, I shan't kick any if I die of it. "Talking of Art, I'm
just beginning to get a notion that curves are wonderful, wonderful things.
These days of mechanical appliances I've always regarded drawing such things by
hand as positively ridiculous. I don't think that way now. If I could only draw
the wonderful curves I have in mind now, why, I guess I'd go right on drawing
them till the birds roosted in my beard and my bones were right for a tame
ancestral skeleton. "The daylight of knowledge is sort of creeping in. "I've
learned that frame houses have got Fifth Avenue mansions beat a mile, and the
smell of a Chinee can become a dollar-and-a-half scent sachet in given
circumstances. I've learned that real sportsmanship isn't confined to athletics
by any means, and a lame chestnut horse can be a most friendly creature. I've
discovered that one man of purpose isn't more than fifty per cent. of two, when
both are yearning one way. I'm learning that life's a mighty pleasant journey if
you let it alone and don't worry things. It's no use kicking to put the world to
rights. It's going to give you a whole heap of worry, and, anyway, the world's
liable to retaliate. Also I'd like to add that, though I guess I'm gathering
wisdom, I don't reckon I've got it all by quite a piece. "Having given you all
the news I can think of I guess I'll close. "Your affectionate son,   "GORDON.
"P.S.--My remarks about Gracie are merely the privileged reflections of a
brother. When she grows up I dare say she'll be quite a bully girl. It takes
time to get sense. "G."

"I don't understand it, anyway," sighed Gordon's mother, as she laid the letter
aside. "You'll have to get him back to home, James. He's suffering. We'll send
out an inquiry----"

She broke off, glancing across at the mass of humanity so peacefully snoring at
the far side of the bed, and, after a brief angry moment, resigned herself to
the reflection that men, even millionaires, were perfectly ridiculous and
selfish creatures who had no right whatever to burden a poor woman's life with
the responsibility of children. CHAPTER IX

THE FIRST CHECK

It was characteristic of Gordon to act unhesitatingly once a decision was
arrived at. The consideration of Silas Mallinsbee's generous offer was the work
of just as many seconds as it took the rancher to make it in. Though, verbally,
it was left for a decision the next day, Gordon had no doubts in his mind
whatever as to the nature of that decision. When he returned to McSwain's
sheltering roof, when another meal had been devoured in the evening, when the
soup-like contents of the wash-trough had been stirred in the doubtful effort of
cleansing himself, when the busy flies had gone to join the birds in their
evening roost, he betook himself to his private bathroom, and sat himself upon
his questionable bed and gave himself up to reflection, endeavoring to apply
some of the wisdom he believed himself to have already acquired. But the
application was without useful effect. He began by an attempt to review the
situation from a purely financial standpoint, and in this endeavor he stretched
out his great muscular limbs along his bed, and propped his broad back against
the wall with a dogged do-or-die look upon his honest face. At once a mental
picture of Hazel Mallinsbee obscured the problem. He dwelt on it for some
profoundly pleasant moments, and then resolutely thrust it aside. Next he
started by frankly admitting that Mallinsbee's offer left him a certain winner
all along the line--if things went right. Good. If things went wrong--but they
couldn't go wrong with those wonderful yellowy brown eyes of Hazel's smiling
encouragement upon him. The thought was absurd. Again for some time his problem
was obscured. But after a few minutes he set his teeth and attacked it afresh.
Of course, if things did go wrong he was done--absolutely finished. His six
months would have expired, his stake would have melted into thin air. His whole
future----  But he would have spent six months at Hazel's side, working upon
something that was obviously very dear to her brave and loyal heart. What more
could a man desire? He felt his great muscles thrill with a mighty sense of
restrained effort. Was there any thought in the world so inspiring as that which
had the support of the most wonderful creature he had ever met for its
inspiration? He thought not. His pulses stirred at the bare idea of being Hazel
Mallinsbee's companion all those weeks and months. Of course it would mean
nothing to her. She was far too clever, and--and altogether brainy to give him a
second thought. But he felt he could help her. He felt that to go back home with
the knowledge that he--he had been one of the prime factors in her achieving the
hope of her life would not be without compensations. Compensations? He wondered
what form such compensations took. They certainly would need to be considerable
for the loss of such a companionship. He thought of the vision he had seen upon
the trail. The beautifully rounded figure. The graceful movements, so obviously
natural. Then those eyes, and----

He smiled and abandoned all further attempt to consider seriously the offer he
had received. What was the use? His good fortune was certainly running in a
strong tide. To attempt to steer a course was to fly in the face of his own
luck. No, he would swim with it, let it take him whither it might. Meanwhile,
Hazel had promised to meet him on the morrow, and show him the great coal seam,
after which he was to interview her father, and have supper at the--office.
Forthwith he hastily retired to his nightly game of hide-and-seek amongst the
hummocks of flock in his disreputable bed, that the long hours of night might
the more speedily merge into a golden to-morrow. The next day Gordon, at an
early hour, spent something over fifty dollars on a pair of ready-made riding-
breeches and boots. For once in his life he felt that the faithful Harding had
been found wanting. Somehow, in arriving at this conclusion, he had forgotten
the episode of the five-cent-cigar man. Anyhow, the purchase had to be made,
since it was necessary to ride out to the coal seams. It was during the time
spent on these matters an incident occurred which caused him some irritation. He
saw in the distance, as he was making his way to the principal store, the pale-
faced, sickly-looking creature who had accosted Hazel the day before. The sight
of the man put him into a bad temper at once, and he forthwith gave the
storekeeper all the unnecessary trouble he could put him to. Then, on returning
to his hotel, he discovered the man in the office talking to Peter McSwain. His
swift temper left him utterly without shame, and he stood and stared at the
object of his dislike, taking him in from head to foot with profoundly
contemptuous eyes. Somehow his inspection made him feel glad he disliked the
man. He was a broad-chested person with aggressively cut clothes. His black hair
was obviously greased, and his general cast of features suggested his Hebrew
origin. Gordon had no grudge against him on this latter score. It was not that.
It was the narrow, shifty eyes, the hateful way in which he smoked his cigar,
with its flaming band about its middle. It was the loud coarse laugh and general
air of impertinent arrogance that set his back bristling. And this--this had
spoken to Hazel Mallinsbee only the day before. He deposited his parcels in his
bathroom, and returned to the office to find McSwain by himself. He had no
hesitation in satisfying his curiosity. "Say," he demanded, in a crisp tone.
"Who was that rotten-looking 'sharp' you were yarning to when I came in?"
Peter's amiable expression underwent the most trifling change. "Guess I lost ten
thousand dollars talkin' that way once," he said, smelling cautiously at one of
his own cigars. Gordon promptly snapped back. "Maybe I've lost more than that.
But it don't cut any ice. Who was he?" Peter smiled as he lit his cigar. "David
Slosson. Guess he's chief robber for the railroad company. You've seen him. Are
you scared any? Say, we've been waitin' to hear him talk two days now. I guess
you could hand us a bunch of emperors, an' kings, an' princes, an' dust over 'em
a sprinkling of presidents, but I don't reckon you'd stir a pulse among us like
the coming of that man did to this city. That feller's right here to put the
railroad in on this land scoop. When he's fixed 'em the way he wants we'll hear
from the railroad." Gordon's eyes were thoughtful. "Chief grafter, eh? He surely
looks it." "Some of 'em do," agreed Peter. "It's my belief the best of 'em
don't, though," he added reflectively. "Yet he surely ought to be right.
Railroads don't usual graft with anything but the best. He was talkin' pretty,
too." "Pretty? More than he looked," snorted Gordon. Then he began to laugh.
"Say, you and I are pretty well agreed about miracles. I sort of feel it'll have
to be one of them miracles if the time don't come when I knock seventeen sorts
of stuffing out of that man. I feel it coming on like a disease. You know,
creeping through my bones, and getting to the tips of my fingers. I'd like to
spoil his store suit in the mud, and beautify his features with your 'hoss'
soap, and drown 'em in--well, what's in your washing-trough." Peter's smile was
cordial enough at the forcefulness of his young guest. He had not forgotten that
Gordon was a friend of Mallinsbee. "I wouldn't play that way till we see how
he's buying," he said cautiously. "Play?" Gordon laughed and shook his head.
"Well, perhaps you're right. It certainly will be some play." After midday
dinner Gordon set out on one of Mike Callahan's horses to keep his appointment
with Hazel Mallinsbee. All his ill-humor of the morning was forgotten, and he
looked forward with unalloyed pleasure to his afternoon, which was to culminate
in his entering into his agreement with her father. Hazel was waiting for him on
the veranda of the office. Her horse, a fine brown mare, was standing ready
saddled. Gordon noted the absence of Sunset, and understood, but he noted also
that her smile of welcome was lacking something of the joyous spirit she had
displayed the night before. "Sunset off duty?" he inquired, as he came up and
leaped out of the saddle to assist her. Hazel scorned his assistance. She was in
the saddle almost before he was aware of her intention. "Sunset's father's," she
said. "The Lady Jane is my saddle horse. She's the most outrageous jade on the
ranch. That's why I like her. Every moment I'm in the saddle she's trying to get
the bit between her teeth. If she succeeded she'd run till she dropped." Then,
with a deliberate effort, she seemed to thrust some shadow from her mind as they
set off at a brisk canter. "You know, father's just dying to show you the ranch.
He's quite quaint and boyish. He takes likes and dislikes in the twinkle of an
eye, and before all things in his life comes his wonderful ranch. I'll tell you
a secret, Mr. Van Henslaer. The day you--arrived, after he'd told me just how
you had arrived, he said, 'I'd like to get that boy working around this lay out.
I like the look of him. He don't know a lot, but he can do things.' He's
certainly taken one of his wonderful, impulsive fancies to you. He's very
shrewd, too." Gordon laughed. "Now I wonder how I ought to take that. I'm all
sorts of a fool, but I can hit hard. That's about his opinion of me, eh?"
Hazel's eyes were slyly watching him. She shook her head. "That's not it," she
smiled back. "You don't know my daddy. He might say that, but there's a whole
lot of other thoughts stumbling around in his funny old head. If he wants you he
thinks you can do more than hit hard." The humor of it all got hold of Gordon.
"Good," he cried, with one of his whole-hearted laughs. "Now I'll let you into a
secret. This is a great secret. One of those secrets a feller generally hangs on
tight to because he's half ashamed of it. I can do more than hit hard!" Then he
became serious, and it was the girl's turn to find amusement. "You see, I've
been raised in a bit of a hothouse. Maybe it's more of a wind shelter, though.
You know, where the rough winds of modern life can't get through the crevices
and buffet you. That's why I fell for that sharp on the train. That's why I
bumped head first into Snake's Fall. That's why your daddy thinks I don't know a
lot. But I tell you right here I've got to make that hundred thousand dollars in
six months, and I'm going to do it by hook or crook, if there's half a smell of
a chance. I've no scruples whatsoever. I just _must_ make it, or--or I'll never
face my father ever again. Do you get me? Whatever you have at stake in this
land proposition, it's just nothing to what I have. And you'll know what I mean
when I say it's just the youthful pride and foolish egoism of twenty-four years.
Say, do you know what it means to a kid when he's dared to do some fool trick
that may cost his life? Well, that's my position, but I've done the daring for
myself. My mood about this thing is the sort of mood in which, if I couldn't get
that money any other way, I'd willingly hold up a bullion train." The girl
nodded. For a moment she made no attempt to answer him. She was gazing out ahead
at a point where signs of busy life had made themselves apparent. Something of
the shadow that had been in her eyes at their meeting had returned. Gordon was
watching them, and a quick concern troubled him. "Say," he observed anxiously.
"You're--worried. I saw it when I came up." The girl endeavored to pass his
inquiry off lightly. "Worried?" she shook her head. "The anxieties of the
business are on my poor daddy's shoulders, and will soon be on yours. They're
not on mine." But Gordon was not easily put off. He edged his horse closer to
her side. "But you _are_ worried," he declared doggedly. Then he added more
lightly, "I'll take a chance on it. It's--a man. And he's got a sort of
whitewash face, and black, shoe-shined hair. He's got a nose you'd hate to run
up against with any vital part. As for his clothes, well--a blind man would hate
to see 'em." The girl turned sharply. "What makes you think that way?" Gordon
smiled triumphantly. "Guess I've been trying to impress you with the fact that
foolishness--like beauty--is only skin deep. The former applies to me. The
latter--well, I guess I must have just read about--that." "If you're not careful
you'll convince me," Hazel laughed. "That's one of the things I'm yearning to
do." "You're talking of David Slosson," she challenged him. Gordon nodded. "The
railroad's--chief grafter." "And a hateful creature." "Who's started right away
to--annoy you--from the time he got around Snake's Fall." A great surprise was
looking back into Gordon's eyes. "You're guessing. You can't know that," Hazel
said, with decision. "Maybe. Say,"--Gordon's eyes were half serious, half
smiling--"a girl don't push her way past a man when he's talking to her if--he
isn't annoying her." "Then you saw him stop me on Main Street yesterday?"
"Sure." Then, after a pause, Gordon went on, "Say, tell me. We're to be fellow
conspirators." Just for one moment Hazel Mallinsbee looked him straight in the
eyes. She was thinking, thinking swiftly. Nor were her thoughts unpleasant. For
one thing she had realized that which Gordon had wished her to realize--that he
was no fool. She was seeing that something in him which doubtless her father had
been quick to discover. She was thinking, too, of his direct, almost dogged
manner of driving home to the purpose he had in view, and she told herself she
liked it. Then, too, all unconsciously, she was thinking of the open, ingenuous,
smiling face of his. The handsome blue eyes which were certainly his chief
attraction in looks, although his other features were sound enough. She decided
at once that for all these things she liked him and trusted him. Therefore she
admitted her worries. "Yes," she said, "it's David Slosson--and your description
of him is too good. He's been here two days. He came here the day before you. He
came out to see father directly he arrived, but, as you know, father was away. I
had to see him. And it wasn't pleasant. Maybe you can guess his attitude. I
don't like to talk of it. He took me for some silly country girl, I s'pose.
Anyway I got rid of him. Then he saw me yesterday." Suddenly her face flushed,
and an angry sparkle shone in her eyes. "His sort ought to be raw-hided," she
declared vehemently. Then, after a pause, in which she choked her anger back,
"We got a note from him this morning to say he'd be along this afternoon.
Father's going to see him. And I was scared to death you wouldn't get along in
time. That's why I was waiting ready for you, and hustled you off without seeing
father. I was scared the man would get around before we were away. I haven't
said a word to my daddy. You see he'd kill him," she finished up, with a
whimsical little smile. Gordon was gazing out ahead at the great coal workings
they were now approaching. But though he beheld a small village of buildings,
and an astonishing activity of human beings and machinery, for the time, at
least, they had no interest for him. "I knew I was up against that man directly
I saw him peeking into that store after you," he said deliberately. "Miss
Mallinsbee, I'm going to ask you all sorts of a big favor. We three are going to
work together for six months. Well, any time you feel worried any by that
feller, don't go to your daddy, just come right along to me. I guess it would
puzzle more than your daddy to kill him after I've done with him. I don't guess
it's the time to talk a lot about this thing now. I don't sort of fancy big talk
that way, anyhow. All I ask you is to let me know, and to be allowed to keep my
own eyes on him." Hazel shook her head. "I don't think I can promise you
anything like that," she said seriously. "But I--thank you all the same. You
see, out here a girl's got to take her own chances, and I'm not altogether
helpless that way." Then she definitely changed the subject and pointed ahead.
"There, what do you think of it?" "Think of it? Why, he's a low down skunk!"
cried Gordon fiercely, unable any longer to restrain his feelings. "I wasn't
speaking of him. It!" the girl laughed. "The coalpits." "Oh!" There was no
responsive laugh from Gordon. Then he added with angry pretense of enjoyment,
"Fine!" For nearly two hours they wandered round the embryonic coal village,
examining everything in detail, and not without a keen interest. The place,
hidden away amongst the higher foothills, was a perfect hive of industry. Great
masses of machinery were lying about everywhere, waiting their turn for the
attention of the engineers. Wooden buildings were in the course of construction
everywhere. A small army of miners and their wives and children had already
taken up their abode, and the men were at work with the engineers in the
preparatory borings already in full operation. Even to Gordon's unpracticed eye
there was little doubt of the accuracy of the information he had received
relating to Snake's Fall. Here there was everything required to provoke the boom
he had been warned of. Here was an evidence that the boom would be a genuine one
built on the solid basis of great and lasting commercial interest. Long before
they started on their return journey he congratulated himself heartily upon the
accident which had brought him into the midst of such an enterprise, and thanked
his stars for the further chance which had brought him into contact with the
train "sharp," and so with Silas Mallinsbee. It was getting on towards the time
for the Mallinsbees' evening meal when the little frame house once more came
within view. There was a decided charm in its isolation. On all sides were the
undulations of grass which denoted the first steps towards the foothills. There
was a wonderful radiance of summer sheen upon the green world about them, and
the brightness of it all, and the pleasantness, set Gordon thinking of the pity
that all too soon it would be broken up almost entirely by those black and
gloomy signs of man's industry when the resources of the old world have to be
tapped. However, he was content enough with the moment. The sky was blue and
radiant, the earth was all so green, and the wide, wide world opened out before
him in whatever direction he chose to gaze. While beside him, sitting her mare
with that confident seat of a perfect horsewoman, was the most beautiful girl in
all the world, a girl in whose companionship he was to spend the next six
months. The gods of Fortune were very, very good to him, and he smiled as the
vision of his sportsman father flashed through his mind. But his moments of
pleasant reflection were abruptly cut short. Hazel had suddenly raised one
pointing arm, and a note of concern was in her voice. "Look," she cried.
"Something's--upset my daddy." Gordon looked in the direction of the house.
Silas Mallinsbee was pacing the veranda at a gait that left no doubt in his
mind. It was the agitated walk of a man disturbed. "What's the matter?" demanded
Gordon, with some concern. "It looks like--David Slosson," said Hazel, in a hard
voice. They rode up in silence, and the girl was the first to reach the ground.
"Daddy----" she began eagerly. But her father cut her short. The flesh-tinted
patch, which Gordon had almost forgotten, which he used to cover his left eye
with, was thrust up absurdly upon his forehead. His heavy brows were drawn
together in an angry frown. His tufty chin beard was aggressively thrust, his
two great hands were stuck in the waist of his trousers, which gave him further
an air of truculence. "Say," he cried, his deep, rolling voice now raised to a
pitch of thunder, "it's taken me fifty-six years to come up with what I've been
chasing all my life. Say, I've spent years an' years huntin' around to find
something meaner than a rattlesnake. Guess I come up with him to-day." "David
Slosson," cried Hazel, her eyes wide with her anger. Her father waved her aside
as she came towards him. "No, don't you butt in. I've got to let off hot air, or
--or--I'll bust." He paced off down the little veranda, and came back again.
Then he stood still, and suddenly brought one great fist down with terrific
force into his other palm. "Gee, but it's tough. Say, you ever tried to hold a
slimy eel?" he cried, glaring fiercely into Gordon's questioning eyes. "No? It's
a heap of a dirty and unsatisfact'ry job, but it ain't as dirty as dealing with
Mr. David Slosson, nor half as unsatisfact'ry. You can stamp your heel on it,
and crush it into the ground. With David Slosson you just got to talk pretty and
fence while you know he's got you beat all along the line, an' all the time
you're just needin' to kill him all to death. Of all the white-livered bums.
Say, if only the good God would push him right into these two hands an' say
squeeze him. Say----"  He held out his two clenched fists as though he were
wringing out a sponge. Gordon raked his hair with one hand. "Do you need to
worry that way, Mr. Mallinsbee? I owe him some myself." The old man glared for
some moments. Then a subtle smile crept into his eyes. Hazel saw it, and seized
the opportunity. "Let's get right inside and have food. You can tell us then,
Daddy. You see, Mr. Van Henslaer's one of our confederates now. He's come along
to tell you so." It was with some difficulty that Hazel contrived to pacify her
father, but at last she succeeded in persuading him to partake of the pleasant
meal provided by Hip-Lee. Gordon was glad when at last they all sat down. The
appetizing smell of coffee, the delicious plates of cold meats, the glass dishes
of preserves, and steaming hot scones, all these things appealed to the
accumulated appetite consequent upon his ride. "Now tell us all about it," Hazel
demanded, when the meal was well under way. Old Mallinsbee, still with the
absurd eye-shade upon his forehead, had recovered his humor, and he poured out
his story in characteristic fashion. "Wall," he said, "maybe I was hot when you
come up. He'd been gone best part of an hour. During that time I'd been sort of
bankin' the furnaces. Gordon Van Henslaer, my boy, I hate meanness worse 'n any
devil hated holy water. Ther's all sorts of meanness in this world, and ther'
ain't no other word to describe it. Killing can be just every sort of thing from
justifiable homicide down to stringin' up some black scallywag by the neck for
doin' the same things white folks do an' get off with a caution. The feller that
steals ain't always to blame. As often as not we need to blame the general
community. Lyin's mostly a disease, an' when it ain't I guess it's a sort of
aggravated form of commercial enterprise, or the budding of a great newspaper
faculty. You can find excuse, or other name, fer most every crime of human
nature--'cept meanness. David Slosson is just the chief ancestor of all
meanness, an' when I say that, why--it's some talk. He's here to put the
railroad in on the land scoop, and, in that respect, I guess he's all I could
have expected. We were making elegant talk. Or, I guess, he was mostly. He said
his chiefs had sent him up to see how the general public could best be served by
his road with regard to this coal boom, and I told him I was dead sure that
railroads never failed in their service of the public. I pointed out I had
always observed it. "That talk of mine seemed to open up the road for things,
and I handed him a good cigar and pushed a highball his way. Then he made a big
music of railroads in general, and talked so pious that it set me yearnin' for
my bed. Then I got wide awake. Say, I ain't done a heap in chapel goin'
recently, but I've sort of got hazy recollections of sitting around dozing,
while the preacher doped a lot of elegant hot air about things which kind of
upset your notions of life generally. Then I seem to recollect getting a sack
pushed into my face, and I got visions of the terrible scare of its coming, and
the kind of nervous chase for that quarter that I could have sworn I'd set ready
in my pocket for such an emergency. That's how I felt--nervous. He was talkin'
prices of plots. "Wal, I got easy after awhile, and we fixed things elegant. The
railroad was to get a dandy bunch of plots at bedrock prices, if they built the
depot right here at Buffalo Point. And that feller was quick to see that I was
out for the interests of the public, and to make things easy for the railroad.
So he talked pretty. Then--then he hooked me a 'right.' He asked me plumb out
how he stood. I was ready for him. I said that nothing would suit me better than
he should come in the same way with the railroad." He shook his head
regretfully. "That man hadn't the conscience of a louse. He was yearning for
twenty town plots, in best positions, five of 'em being corner plots, in the
commercial area for--nix! I was feeling as amiable as a she wild-cat, and I told
him there was nothing doing that way. He said he'd hoped better from my public-
spirited remarks. I assured him my public spirit hadn't changed a cent. He said
he was sure it hadn't, and was astonished what a strong public spirit was shown
around the whole of Snake's Fall. He said that the old town was just the same as
Buffalo Point. They were most anxious to help the railroad out, too. Which,
seeing the depot--the old depot--was already standing there, made it a cinch for
the railroad. They were dead anxious to save the railroad trouble and expense. I
pushed another highball at him, but he guessed he hadn't a thirst any more, and
one cigar was all he ever smoked in an afternoon. Then he oozed off, and I was
glad. I guess homicide has its drawbacks." "High 'graft,'" said Gordon. "Maybe
it's 'high,'" said Mallinsbee, with a smile in which there was no mirth. "Guess
I wouldn't spell it that way myself. There's just one thing certain: if my side
of the game has to go plumb to hell David Slosson don't get his graft the way
_he_ wants it. And that's what you and me are up against." "And we'll beat him."
"We got to." "You and----"

"You," cried Mallinsbee, thrusting out a hand towards him across the table. The
two men gripped. Gordon had joined the conspirators. CHAPTER X

GORDON MAKES HIS BID FOR FORTUNE

Gordon's new address was Buffalo Point, and, entering upon his duties, he felt
like some Napoleon of finance about to embark upon a market-breaking scheme in
which the brilliancy of his manipulations were to shine forth for the
illumination of the pages of history, yet to be written. That was how he felt.
Those were the feelings of the moment. Later the burden of his responsibilities
obscured the Napoleonic image, and raised up in his mind a thought as to the
wisdom of butting one's head against a brick wall. However, for the time at
least the joy of responsibility was considerable, and the greater joy of the
companionship and trust of his new friends was something which inspired him to
great efforts. He studied the affairs of Buffalo Point with a care for detail
and an assiduity which quickly became the surprise and delight of Silas
Mallinsbee. He went over every foot of the new township as laid out by a well-
known firm of town planners from New York under Mallinsbee's orders and under
State supervision. He spent one entire day in studying the drawn plans, and,
finally, having committed all the details to memory, he felt himself equipped to
devote his whole attention to the cajoling of the railroad which was the sum and
substance of their combined efforts. In the first week of his occupation he
learned many things which had been obscure. He took the story of Mallinsbee's
operations and examined it closely, discovering in the process that he possessed
a faculty for clear reasoning altogether surprising. Furthermore, he discovered
that Mallinsbee, though possibly unpracticed in the work of a big financial
undertaking, yet possessed all, and more, of the shrewdness he had vaguely
suspected. One of the first efforts of the old man had been to secure the
interest of many of the chief traders in the old township of Snake's Fall. Also
that of the Bude and Sideley Coal Company. This had been done very simply but
effectively. After having marked off the town sites he required for himself he
had then offered, and sold, to pretty well every landowner in Snake's Fall a
certain allotment of sites at a merely nominal fee. This, as the man himself
declared in the course of his story, left Snake's Fall pretty well "not carin' a
whoop which way the old cat jumped." The "cat" in this instance being the
railroad. In this way direct and active opposition from the landholders of
Snake's Fall was minimized. As he explained, it was "graft," but he felt that it
was justifiable. This left him with the good will of the citizens and free to
act on broader lines. Then he began to pull all the wires he could command with
the coal people, who regarded him in the friendliest spirit. However, there was
difficulty here, though the difficulty was not insurmountable. Their engineers
were at work already on the plans to be put into almost immediate operation for
the construction of a private track to link up the coalfields with Snake's Fall.
With them it was a question of time. They could not afford delay, and the
exploitation of the new township would mean delay for them, although they
admitted they would be relieved of a great expense from its proximity to their
workings. Mallinsbee, after stupendous efforts, and careful negotiations of the
right kind, finally effected a compromise. He was given three months, of which
already one week had elapsed, in which to obtain the definite assurance that the
railroad would accept Buffalo Point as the new city. In the meantime the coal
people's construction would be held up, and they would assist him with all the
influence they could command in persuading the railroad. This concession was not
unaided by considerable graft, and the graft took the form of an agreement that
Mallinsbee, out of his own pocket, would construct them a coal depot and yards
in conjunction with the railroad, and hand them the titles of the land necessary
for it. He had just returned from the east, where he had been in consultation
with the Bude and Sideley people, and with whom he had ratified this agreement,
and, at the same time, the railroad had been induced to move in the matter. All
along he had triumphed through the agency of graft, and the crowning point of
his triumph had been demonstrated in the arrival at Snake's Fall of Mr. David
Slosson. Gordon's first impressions of all these things was that Silas
Mallinsbee had contrived with considerable skill, and that all was more or less
plain sailing. All that remained was to go on, with the grafting hand thrust
ready into the pocket for all eventualities, and he found himself smiling at the
thought of his father, and how surely his own theories of financial undertakings
were working out. That was his first impression. But it only lasted until he
became aware of those subtleties of human nature lying behind human effort and
intention. He had reckoned without David Slosson, and, more than all, he had
reckoned without Silas Mallinsbee himself. During that first week of his new
work David Slosson had called at the office twice. Once he had encountered only
Gordon, and Hazel had arrived during the visit. The second time he had had
another interview with Silas Mallinsbee. It was immediately after that interview
that Gordon gained some appreciation of the point where human psychology stepped
into the arena of commercial competition. The revelation came in Silas
Mallinsbee's own statement of the result of that interview. "Gordon, my boy," he
said. He had quickly abandoned the use of Gordon's formal address. "If that
feller gets around here too frequent with his blackmail, I'm going to kill him."
Then he thrust the patch over his left eye high up on to his forehead, and
Gordon realized the angry light shining in the man's eyes. With one eye covered
his face had almost been expressionless. His evident surprise at this
realization did not fail to attract the rancher's attention. His angry eyes
softened to a smile of amusement. "You're wonderin' 'bout that patch?" he went
on. "Wal, when I get up against a feller who's brighter than I am in a deal, I
don't figure to take chances. Ever played 'draw' with a one-eyed man? No? Wal, I
did--once. An' I ain't recovered from all he taught me yet. He taught me that
two eyes can just about give away double as much as one. Which, in financial
dealings, is quite a piece. I guess that patch has saved me quite a few dollars
in its time. An' it makes me kind of sore to think I didn't meet that one-eyed
'sharp' earlier in life." Gordon nodded as he folded up the plan of the town
lying on his desk. "You were using it on--Mr. David Slosson. Say, is he smart,
or is he just a--crook?" Mallinsbee rose from his chair and moved cumbersomely
over to the doorway, and stood with his back turned, gazing out. "I ain't fixed
him that way--yet. He's sure a crook, anyway. That's a cinch. 'Bout the other
we'll know later. Say, I'm open to graft anybody on this thing--reasonably. It's
part of the game. It's more. It's the game itself. But I don't submit to
blackmail." "There doesn't seem much difference," said Gordon, drawing some
letter-paper towards him, and preparing to write. The other remained where he
was, moodily gazing out at the hills where his beloved ranch lay. "You'd think
not--but there is," Mallinsbee went on. "You graft an organization when you're
needin' something from them which they ain't under obligation to themselves to
do. That's buying and selling, and, as things go, there ain't much kick coming.
But when you've done that, and their favor's fixed right, it's blackmail if
their servants come along and refuse to carry out their work if you don't pay
_their_ price. This feller Slosson is a servant of the railroad. I'm ready to
graft all they need. He's out for blackmail. That feller wants to be paid
something for nothing. He don't do a thing for us. He's got to do the work I'm
paying the railroad for. See? Say, Gordon, boy, happen what likes I won't do it.
That feller don't make one cent out of me. I'm on the buck, an' I don't care a
curse." Mallinsbee had turned about to deliver his irrevocable decision, and, as
Gordon met the man's serious, obstinate expression, he realized something of the
psychology lying behind a big financial transaction. If Slosson had been a man
of reasonable grafting disposition, if he had been a pleasant, amiable
personality, if he had been a--man, if Silas Mallinsbee had been used to affairs
such as his father dealt in--well--. But it was useless to speculate further. He
only saw a troublous situation growing up for him to contend with. "We've got to
get him playing our game," he hazarded. "That we'll never do. We're playing a
straight bid for a win. He couldn't play a straight bid for anything." "No."
There was a great cordiality in Gordon's negative. "It's us who've got to play
him--someways." "It's some proposition," mused Gordon. "It surely is. There's
ways." Mallinsbee laughed shortly. "Maybe I'll hand him over to Hazel." Then he
gave another short laugh. "Guess the ranch 'll interest him some--too." Gordon's
eyes lit apprehensively. "I wouldn't do that," he said almost sharply.
Mallinsbee faced about. "Why not? Hazel's a bright girl. She's as wise as any
two men. A crook don't worry her a thing." "I guess all that's right enough. But
--she's a girl, and--I don't seem to feel it's fair to her." Mallinsbee remained
silent for some moments. Gordon watched the broad back of the great, lolling
figure in the doorway with an alarm he would not have displayed had he been
facing him. Then the sound of clattering hoofs outside broke up the silence and
the old man turned. "Here she is," he cried, with a shadowy smile. "Guess she
can speak for herself." Gordon could have cursed the luck that had brought the
girl there at that moment. He understood the depth of her devotion to her father
and his enterprise. Nothing could have been less opportune. But, in a moment,
his annoyance became lost in his delight at the sound of her cheery greeting.
"Hello, Daddy," he heard her call out. Gordon remained where he was, waiting to
feast his eyes upon the fresh beauty of this girl, who occupied so large a
portion of his thoughts. Her father stood aside to allow her to pass in, and
Gordon had his reward in her radiant smile. "How's our junior partner?" she
cried gayly. "Feeling just about ready to turn the office into a twelve-foot
ring and--hurt somebody," the junior partner retorted quickly. Hazel pulled a
long face. "Is it that way?" she demanded, and turned back to her father. Then
she added playfully: "What's ruffled the atmosphere of our--dovecote?" The old
man began to chuckle. "Dovecote?" he said. "Guess armed fortress comes nearer
describing this lay out. Anyway the temper of its occupants," he added, his
twinkling eyes on the determined features of his protege. "Guess I'll get goin'
out to the ranch while you two scrap things out. Seems to me I need to get the
cobwebs of David Slosson out of my head." He took his departure without haste,
but with the obvious intention of avoiding any further discussion of David
Slosson for the present. And Gordon was not sorry for his going. He felt that at
all costs his suggestion that Hazel should take her place in the ring with this
man Slosson was not to be thought of. But he was reckoning without Hazel
herself. He was calculating with all a man's--a young man's--assurance that this
girl would regard his opinions in the light he regarded them himself. Hazel sat
herself upon the edge of his desk, and flicked the rawhide quirt against the leg
of her top boot. Her prairie hat was thrust back from her forehead, and her
pretty tanned face was turned in a smiling inquiry upon Gordon. "What is it?"
she asked, with that new alertness the man had come to regard as a part of her
nature, second only to her delightful camaraderie. He smiled back into her merry
eyes. "I'm wondering why two men bent on a joint purpose can't see the same
thing in the same light." "Which means you and my daddy have already started an
argument which I'll have to settle." Gordon laughed. "Guess you'll settle it,
though--there's no need." "Why not? If you can't agree?" "We do agree." "Then
where's the argument?" "There isn't one." Hazel began to laugh. "Why did you say
there was?" "I didn't. It was you who said that." Hazel's smile had died away.
"It's Slosson, of course," she said decidedly. And Gordon began to wish she were
not so clearsighted, nor so direct in her challenges. "Oh, he's a constant
thorn," he said evasively. "Has he been here to-day?" Gordon nodded. "And the
result?" "Your father is--obdurate. Says he won't submit to blackmail." "Has
Slosson abated his terms?" "I don't think so." Hazel rose quickly from her seat
on the desk. She walked slowly across the room and propped herself in the
doorway, in precisely the same position as her father had occupied. Gordon's
eyes watched her every movement. He knew she was considering deeply, and
intuition warned him that the result of her consideration might easily conflict
with that which he had in his mind. But he was not prepared for the announcement
which came a moment later. She came back to the desk quickly, and took up her
old place on it. Her pretty lips were firmly set, and she gazed soberly and
unflinchingly down into Gordon's apprehensive blue eyes. "I shall have to deal
with David Slosson," she said quietly. Then, with a light, expressive shrug: "It
won't be pleasant--not by quite a lot. But--it's got to be done, and done
quickly. Father won't give way, so--he must." But, in a moment, Gordon's protest
came with all the enthusiasm of his impulsive nature. To think of this beautiful
child having to defile herself by cajoling a creature like this Slosson moved
him to a pitch of distraction. Whatever else he did not know, he knew the
meaning of expression when men gaze at women. And he had not forgotten his first
morning in Snake's Fall. "Miss Mallinsbee," he cried, his big body leaning
forward in his earnestness, and all his feelings displayed in his ingenuous
face, "I'd rather let this thing go plumb smash than that you should be brought
into contact with that filthy scum again. Say, you're too young, and good, to
understand such creatures. I know----"

Hazel was smiling whimsically down into his anxious eyes. "And you're so old and
wise you can see plumb through him," she cried. Then with an exact reproduction
of his manner, she leaned forward so that their faces were within a foot of each
other. "You two Solomons can't deal with him worth two cents. My daddy's too
obstinate, and you--are too prejudiced. He's got to be dealt with, and I'm going
to do it. In a case like this a girl's wiser than any two men." "That's--just
how your father argued," cried Gordon, in exasperation. And the next moment he
could have bitten off his tongue. Hazel clapped her hands. "So that was the
argument," she cried delightedly. "My daddy in his wisdom thought of me, and you
--you being just a big, big chivalrous boy with notions, couldn't see the same
way." Then she sat up, and her eyes grew very serious. That which lay behind
them was completely hidden from her companion, as she intended it to be. Had it
been possible for him to have read her approval of himself in her attitude, he
now made it beyond question by the sudden wave of heat which swept through his
heart. "I tell you, you've no right to sacrifice yourself," he cried hotly. "Nor
has your father----"

"No right? Sacrifice?" Hazel's eyes opened wide, and in their beautiful depths a
sparkle of resentment shone. "Who says that?" she demanded. Then in a moment her
merry thought banished the clouds of her displeasure. She began to tease. "Why
shouldn't I do this? Say, you've roused my curiosity. What's the danger? I--I
just love danger. What is the danger I'm running?" But Gordon's sense of humor
was unequal to her teasing on such a subject. He remained sulkily silent. "I'm
waiting," Hazel urged slyly. Gordon cleared his throat. He glanced up at her a
little helplessly. Their eyes met, and somehow he caught the infection of her
lurking smile. He was forced to laugh in spite of himself. "If--if you don't
know, it's not for me to say," he cried at last, with a shrug. "But I tell you,
right here, if you were my sister you wouldn't go near Slosson, if I had to--to
chain you up." "But I'm not your sister," retorted Hazel, with her dazzling
smile. "And, if I were, I shouldn't be a sister of yours if I didn't." Then she
laughed at herself. "Say, isn't that real bright?" Then with a great pretense at
severity she flourished an admonitory finger at him. "Gordon Van Henslaer," she
said solemnly, "you're just as obstinate as my daddy, but you haven't got his
wisdom." Her pretense passed and she became suddenly very earnest. "This thing
is just all the world to my daddy," she said, "and I can help him. Wouldn't you
help him if you had such a dear, quaint old daddy as I have? I'm sure you would.
What does it matter to me what I may have to put up with if I can help him out?
True, it doesn't matter a thing. Insults? Why, I'll just deal with them as they
come along." Then her mood lightened. "Say, we're just two real good friends,
Mr. Van Henslaer, aren't we? Friends. It's got a bully sound. That's just how my
daddy and I've been ever since my poor momma died years and years ago. Heigho!"
she sighed. "And now I've got another friend, and that's you. Say, we're always
going to be friends, too, because you're going to understand that this--this
thing is business, and business isn't play. My daddy wants to make good, and I'm
going to do all I know. And," she added slyly, "that's quite a lot. Do you know,
in this thing I'm dead honest when I'm dealing with honest folk, and I'm a
'sharp' when I'm dealing with 'sharps'? By that I just mean I'm not scared of a
thing. Certainly of nothing Mr. David Slosson can do. My daddy can trust me, and
he's known me all my life. You've only known me a week, but you can trust me
too. I'm out to help things along, so just let's forget this--this talk."
Gordon's admiration for the girl was so obvious that no words of his were
necessary to illuminate it, but he shook his head seriously as she finished
speaking. "I just can't help it, Miss Mallinsbee," he said, a little
desperately. "If anything happened to you I'd never forgive myself. What do you
mean to do?" Hazel smiled at his manner. Her smile was confident, but it was
also an expression of her regard for him. She had no intention of modifying her
decision, but she liked him for his dogged protest. "You just leave that to me,"
she cried buoyantly. "I haven't an idea in my silly head--yet. All I can say is,
David Slosson is to be encouraged. He's to be flattered. I'm going to make him
smile real prettily with that mealy face of his. Guess I'll have to take him out
rides--but I'll promise you it won't be my fault if he don't break his wicked
neck." Gordon was forced to join in the girl's infectious laugh, but it was
without enjoyment. To think of this man riding at Hazel's side, basking in her
smiles, enjoying her company just when and where he pleased. The thought was
maddening. And it set his fingers tingling and itching to possess themselves of
his throat and squeeze the life out of him. "And how long's this to go on for?"
he asked sulkily, in spite of his laugh. Hazel's eyes opened wide. "Why--until
he weakens, and we get things fixed." "And if he beats your game?" "He'll hate
himself first, and then we'll have to reorganize our plans." "Then I guess I'll
get busy on the other plans." "I shall be beaten?" Gordon glanced away towards
the window. His eyes had become reflective. "It's the only thing I can see," he
said slowly. "He'll finish by insulting you. I know his kind. He'll insult you,
sure. And I--well, I shall just as surely pretty near kill him. And then we'll
need other--plans." CHAPTER XI

HAZEL MALLINSBEE'S CAMPAIGN

The seductive mystery of the hills was beyond all words. A wonderful outlook of
wide valleys, bounded in almost every direction by the vast incline of wood-clad
hills, opened out a world that seemed to terminate abruptly everywhere, yet to
go on and on in an endless series of great green valleys and mountain streams.
Darkling wood-belts crept up the great hillsides, deep in mysterious shadows,
stirring imagination, and carrying it back to all those haunting dreams of early
childhood. For the most part these were all untrodden by human foot, and so
their mystery deepened. Then above, often penetrating into the low-lying clouds,
the crowning glory of alabaster peaks whose snowy sheen dazed the wondering eyes
raised towards them. In the valleys below, the green, the wonderful green,
bright and delicate, and quite unfaded by the scorching sun of the prairie away
beyond. Pastures beyond the dreams of all animal imagination in their humid
richness. Water, too, and low, broken scrubs and woodland bluffs--one vast
panorama of verdant beauty, such as only the eye of an artist or the heart of a
ranchman could appreciate. It was the setting of Silas Mallinsbee's ranch, that
ranch which was more to him than all the world, except his motherless daughter.
Gordon had seen it all as he rode out to spend the week-end on a ranch horse,
placed by Mallinsbee at his disposal. He had marveled then at the delights
spread out before his eyes. Now, on the Sunday morning, while he awaited
breakfast, he wondered still more as he examined, even more closely, that wealth
of natural splendor spread out for his delight. He was lounging on the deep sun-
sheltered veranda which faced the south. The ranch house was perched high up on
the southern slope of one of the lesser hills. Above him the gentle morning
breeze sighed in the rustling tree-tops of a great crowning woodland. Below him,
and all around him, were the widespreading buildings and corrals of a great
ranching enterprise. It seemed incredible to him that within twenty miles of
him, away to the east, there could exist so mundane and sordid an undertaking as
the Bude and Sideley Coal Company, and the vicious chorus of ground sharks which
haunted Snake's Fall. He felt as though he were gazing out upon some enchanted
valley of dreamland, where the soft breezes and glinting sunlight possessed a
magic to rest the teeming energy of modern highly tuned brain and nerves. Its
seductiveness lulled him to a profound meditation, and into his dreaming stole
the figure of the mistress of these miles of perfect beauty. Now he had some
understanding of that fascinating buoyancy of spirit, the simple devotion with
which she contemplated the life that claimed her. How could it be otherwise?
Here was nature in all its wonders of simplicity, shedding upon the life
sheltering at its bosom an equal simplicity, an equal strength, an equal
singleness of mind with which it was itself endowed. He felt that if he, too,
had been brought up in such surroundings no city flesh-pots could ever have
offered him any fascination. He, too, must have felt that this--this alone was
the real life of man. The play of the dancing sunlight through the distant trees
held his gaze. He forgot to smoke, he forgot everything except the beauty about
him, the stirring ranch life below him, and the girl whose fascination was daily
possessing a greater and greater hold upon him. Then, quite gently, something
else subtly merged itself with the pleasant tide of his meditations. It was the
deep note of a voice which came from close beside him in a rolling bass that
afforded no jar. "A picture that's mighty hard to beat," it said. Gordon nodded
without turning. "Sure." "Kind of holds you till you wonder why folks ever build
cities and things." "Sure." "There ain't a muck hole in miles and miles around
that you could fall into, and not come out of with a clean conscience an' a
wholesome mind. Kind of different to a city." Gordon stirred. He turned and
looked into Silas Mallinsbee's smiling eyes. "It's--all yours?" he inquired.
"For miles an' miles around. I got nigh a hundred miles of grazing in these
hills--and nobody else don't seem to want it. Makes you wonder." Gordon laughed.
"Say, set a spade into the ground and find a marketable mineral and tell
somebody. Then see." Mallinsbee chewed an unlit cigar, and his chin beard
twisted absurdly. "That's it," he said slowly. "There's nothing to these hills
as they are, except to a cattleman, I guess. Cattle don't suit the modern man.
Your profitable crop's a three years' waiting, and that don't mean a thing to
folk nowadays, except a dead loss of time on the round-up of dollars. They don't
figure that once you're good and going that three years' crop comes around once
every year. So they miss a deal." "Yes, they'd reckon it slow, I guess," Gordon
agreed. "But," he went on with enthusiasm, "the life of it. The air." He took a
deep breath of the sparkling mountain atmosphere. "It's champagne. The champagne
of life. Say, it's good to be alive in such a place. And you," he gazed
inquiringly into the man's strong face, "you began it from--the beginning?" "I
built the first ranch house with my own hands. My old wife an' I built up this
ranch and ran it. And now it's rich and big--she's gone. She never saw it win
out. Hazel's took her place, and it's been for her to see it grow to what it is.
She helped me ship my first single year's crop of twenty thousand beeves to the
market ten years ago. She was a small kiddie then, and she cried her pretty eyes
out when I told her they were going to the slaughter yards of Chicago. You see,
she'd known most of 'em as calves." "The work of it must be enormous," meditated
Gordon, after a pause in which he had pictured that small child weeping over her
lost calves. "So," rumbled Mallinsbee. "We're used to it. I run thirty boys all
the year round, and more at round-up. Guess if I was missing Hazel wouldn't be
at a loss to carry on. She's a great ranchman. She knows it all." "Wonderful,"
Gordon cried in admiration. "It's staggering to think of a girl like that
handling this great concern." "There's two foremen, though. They've been with us
years," said the other simply. But Gordon's wonder remained no less, and
Mallinsbee went on--

"After breakfast we'll take a gun and get up into those woods yonder. Maybe
we'll put up a jack rabbit, or a blacktail deer. Anyway, I guess there's always
a bunch of prairie chicken around." "Fine," cried Gordon, all his sporting
instincts banishing every other thought. "Which----"

But Hazel's voice interrupted him, summoning them both to breakfast. "Come
along, folks," she cried, "or the coffee 'll be cold." The men hurried into the
house. Gordon felt that there was nothing and no power on earth that could keep
him from his breakfast in that delicious mountain air, with Hazel for his
hostess. The meal was all he anticipated. Simple, ample, wholesome country fare,
with the accompaniment of perfect cooking. He ate with an appetite that set
Hazel's merry eyes dancing, and her tongue accompanying them with an equally
merry banter. And all the time Silas Mallinsbee looked on, and smiled, and
rumbled an occasional remark. After breakfast the two men set out with their
guns. "We're sure making Sunday service," said Hazel's father, glancing into the
breech of his favorite gun. Gordon concurred. "Up in the woods there," he
laughed. "With a congregation of fur and feather," laughed Hazel. "Which is as
wholesome as petticoats an' swallowtails," said her father, "an' a good deal
more healthy fer our bodies." "But what about your souls?" inquired Hazel slyly.
"Souls?" Her father snapped the breech closed. "A soul's like a good sailin'
ship. If she's driving on a lee shore it's through bad seamanship and the winds
of heaven, and you can't save it anyway. If she ain't driving on a lee shore--
well, I don't guess she needs saving." "It's a great big scallywag," came
through the open doorway after them, as they departed. The tenderness and
affection in the manner of the girl's parting words made Gordon feel that his
great host had some compensation for the absence of that mother who had blessed
him with such a pledge of their love. The two men were returning with their bag.
It was not extensive, but it was select. A small blacktail was lying across
Mallinsbee's broad shoulders. Gordon was carrying a large jack-rabbit, and
several brace of prairie chicken. The younger man was enthusiastic over their
sport. "Talk to me of a city! Why, I could do this twice a day and every day,
till I was blind and silly, and deaf and dumb. I sort of feel life don't begin
to tell you things till you get out in the open, at the right end of a gun.
Makes you feel sorry for the fellows chasing dollars in a city." They were
approaching the limits of a woodland bluff, from the edge of which the ranch
would be in view. "Guess that's how I've always felt--till little Hazel got
without a mother," replied Mallinsbee. "After that--well, I just guess I needed
other things to fill up spare thoughts." Gordon's enthusiasm promptly lessened
out of sympathy. Something of the loneliness of the ranch life--when one of the
partners was taken--now occurred to him. "Yes," he said earnestly, "the right
woman's just the whole of a man's world. I guess there are circumstances when--
this sun don't shine so bright. When a man feels something of the vastness and
solitude of these hills, when their mystery sort of gets hold of him. I can get
that--sure." "Yep. It's just about then when a bit of coal makes all the
difference," Mallinsbee smiled. "I wouldn't just call coal the gayest thing in
life. But it's got its uses. When the summer's past, why, I guess the stoves of
winter need banking." Gordon nodded his understanding. "But your daughter is
just crazy on this life," he suggested. The old man's smile had passed. "Sure."
Then he sighed. "She's been my partner ever since, sort of junior partner. But
sometime she 'll be--going." Then his slow smile crept back into his eyes. "Then
it'll be winter all the time. Then it'll have to be coal, an' again coal--right
along." They emerged from the woods, and instinctively Gordon gazed across at
the distant ranch. In a moment he was standing stock still staring across the
valley. And swiftly there leaped into his eyes a dangerous light. Mallinsbee
halted, too. He shaded his eyes, and an ominous cloud settled upon his heavy
brows. "Some one driven out," he muttered, examining narrowly a team and buggy
standing at the veranda. Gordon emitted a sound that was like a laugh, but had
no mirth in it. "It's a man, and he's talking to Miss Mallinsbee on the veranda.
It don't take me guessing his identity. That suit's fixed right on my mind."
"David Slosson," muttered Mallinsbee, and he hurried on at an increased pace. It
was after the midday dinner which David Slosson had shared with them. When her
father and Gordon arrived, and before objection could be offered by anybody,
Hazel asked her uninvited guest to stay to dinner. David Slosson, without the
least hesitation, accepted the invitation. In this manner all opposition from
her father was discounted, all display of either man's displeasure avoided. She
contrived, with subtle feminine wit, to twist the situation to the ends she had
in view. She disliked the visitor intensely. The part she had decided to play
troubled her, but she meant to carry it through whatever it cost her, and she
felt that an opportunity like the present was not to be missed. Her father
accepted the cue he was offered, but Gordon was obsessed with murderous thoughts
which certainly Hazel read, even in the smile with which he greeted the man he
had decided was to be his enemy. To Gordon, David Slosson was even more
detestable socially than in business. Here his obvious vulgarity and commonness
had no opportunity of disguise. He displayed it in the very explanation of his
visit. "Say," he cried, "Snake's Fall is just the bummest location this side of
the Sahara on a Sunday. I was lyin' around the hotel with a grouch on I couldn't
have scotched with a dozen highballs. I was hatin' myself that bad I got right
up an' hired a team and drove along out here on the off-chance of hitting up
against some one interestin'." Then he added, with a glance at Hazel, which
Gordon would willingly have slain him for: "Guess I hit." This was on the
veranda. But later, throughout the meal, his offenses, in Gordon's eyes, mounted
up and up, till the tally nearly reached the breaking strain. The man put
himself at his ease to his own satisfaction from the start. He addressed all his
talk either to Hazel or to her father, and, by ignoring Gordon almost entirely,
displayed the fact that antagonism was mutual. He criticised everything he saw
about him, from the simple furnishing of the room in which they were dining, and
the food they were partaking of, and its cooking, even to the riding-costume
Hazel was wearing. He lost no opportunity of comparing unfavorably the life on
the ranch, the life, as he put it, to which her father condemned Hazel, with the
life of the cities he knew and had lived in. He passed from one rudeness to
another under the firm conviction that he was making an impression upon this
flower of the plains. The men mattered nothing to him. As far as Mallinsbee was
concerned, he felt he held him in the palm of his hand. Never in his life had
Gordon undergone such an ordeal as that meal, which he had so looked forward to,
in the pleasant company of father and daughter. Never had he known before the
real meaning of self-restraint. More than all it was made harder by the fact
that he felt Hazel was aware of something of his feelings. And the certainty
that her father understood was made plain by the amused twinkle of his eyes when
they were turned in his direction. Then came the _denouement_. It was at the
finish of the meal that Hazel launched her bombshell. Slosson, in a long, coarse
disquisition upon ranching, had been displaying his most perfect ignorance and
conceit. He finished up with the definite statement that ranching was done,
"busted." He knew. He had seen. There was nothing in it. Only in grain or mixed
farming. He had had wide experience on the prairie, and you couldn't teach him a
thing. "You must let me show you how fallible is your opinion," said Hazel, with
more politeness of language than intent. There was a subtle sparkle in her eyes
which Gordon was rejoiced to detect. "Let me see," she went on, "it's light till
nearly nine o'clock. You see, I mustn't keep you driving on the prairie after
dark for fear of losing yourself." She laughed. "Now, I'll lend you a saddle
horse--if you can ride," she went on demurely, "and we'll ride round the range
till supper. That'll leave you ample time to get back to Snake's Fall without
losing yourself in the dark." Gordon wanted to laugh, but forced himself to
refrain. Mallinsbee audibly chuckled. David Slosson looked sharply at Hazel with
his narrow black eyes, and his face went scarlet. Then he forced a boisterous
laugh. "Say, that's a bet, Miss Hazel," he cried familiarly. "If you can lose me
out on the prairie you're welcome, and when it comes to the saddle, why, I guess
I can ride anything with hair on." "Better let him have my plug, Sunset,"
suggested Mallinsbee gutturally. But Hazel's eyes opened wide. She shook her
head. "I wouldn't insult a man of Mr. Slosson's experience by offering him a
cushy old thing like Sunset," she expostulated. Then she turned to Slosson.
"Sunset's a rocking-horse," she explained. "Now, there's a dandy three-year-old
I've just finished breaking in the barn. He's a lifey boy. Wouldn't you rather
have him?" she inquired wickedly. Slosson's inclination was obvious. He would
have preferred Sunset. But he couldn't take a bluff from a prairie girl, he told
himself. Forthwith he promptly demanded the three-year-old, and his demand
elicited the first genuine smile Gordon had been able to muster since he had
become aware of Slosson's presence on the ranch. Within half an hour one of the
ranch hands brought the two horses to the veranda. Hazel's mare, keen-eyed,
alert and full of life, was a picture for the eye of a horseman. The other
horse, shy and wild-eyed, was a picture also, but a picture of quite a different
type. Hazel glanced keenly round the saddle of the youngster. Then she
approached Slosson, who was stroking his black mustache pensively on the
veranda, and looked up at him with her sweetest smile. "Shall I get on him
first?" she inquired. "Maybe he'll cat jump some. He's pretty lifey. I'd hate
him to pitch you." But to his credit it must be said that Slosson possessed the
courage of his bluff. With a half-angry gesture he left the veranda and took the
horse from the grinning, bechapped ranchman. He knew now that he was being
"jollied." "Guess you can't scare me that way, Miss Hazel," he cried, but there
was no mirth in the harsh laugh that accompanied his words. He was in the saddle
in a trice, and, almost as quickly, he was very nearly out of it. That cat jump
had come on the instant. "Stick to him," Hazel cried. And David Slosson did his
best. He caught hold of the horn of the saddle, his heels went into the horse's
sides, and, in two seconds, his attitude was much that of a shipwrecked mariner
trying to balance on a barrel in a stormy sea. But he stuck to the saddle,
although so nearly wrecked, and though the terrified horse gave a pretty display
of bucking, it could not shed its unwelcome burden. So, in a few moments, it
abandoned its attempt. Then David Slosson sat up in triumph, and his vanity
shone forth upon his pale face in a beaming smile. "He's some horseman," rumbled
Mallinsbee, loud enough for Slosson to hear as the horses went off. "Quite,"
returned Gordon, in a still louder voice. "If there's one thing I like to see
it's a fine exhibition of horsemanship." Then as the horses started at a
headlong gallop down towards the valley, the two men left behind turned to each
other with a laugh. "He called Hazel's bluff," said the girl's father, with a
wry thrust of his chin beard. "Which makes it all the more pleasant to think of
the time when my turn comes," said Gordon sharply. David Slosson was more than
pleased with himself. He was so delighted that, by a miraculous effort, he had
stuck to his horse, that his vanity completely ran away with him. He would show
this girl and her mossback father. They wanted to "jolly" him. Well, let them
keep trying. Once the horses had started he gave his its head, and set it at a
hard gallop. He turned in the saddle with a challenge to his companion. "Let's
have a run for it," he cried. The girl laughed back at him. "Where you go I'll
follow," she cried. Her words were well calculated. The light of vainglory was
in the man's eyes, and he hammered his heels into his horse's flanks till it was
racing headlong. But Hazel's mare was at his shoulder, striding along with
perfect confidence and controlled under hands equally perfect. "We'll go along
this valley and I'll show you our next year's crop of beeves," cried Hazel,
later. "They're away yonder, beyond that southern hill, guess we'll find half of
them around there. You said ranching was played out, I think." "Right ho," cried
the man, with a sneering laugh. "Guess you'll need to convince me. Say, this is
some hoss." "Useful," admitted Hazel, watching with distressed eyes the man's
lumbering seat in the saddle. They rode on for some moments in silence. Then
Hazel eased her hand upon the Lady Jane, and drew up on the youngster like a
shot from a gun. "We'll have to get across this stream," she declared,
indicating the six-foot stream along which they were riding. "There's a cattle
bridge lower down which you'd better take. There it is, away on. Guess you can
see it from here." "What are you goin' to do?" asked the man sharply. He was
expecting another bluff, and was in the right mood to call it, since his success
with the first. But Hazel had calculated things to a nicety. She owed this man a
good deal already for herself. She owed him more for his impertinent ignoring of
Gordon, and also for his disparagement of the ranch life she loved. Without a
word she swung her mare sharply to the left. A dozen strides, a gazelle-like
lifting of the round, brown body, and the Lady Jane was on the opposite bank of
the stream. Before David Slosson was aware of her purpose, and its
accomplishment, his racing horse, still uneducated of mouth, had carried him
thirty or forty yards beyond the spot where Hazel had jumped the stream. At
length, however, he contrived to pull the youngster up. He smiled as he saw the
girl on the other side of the stream. He remembered her suggestion of the
bridge, and he shut his teeth with a snap. The stream was narrower here, so he
had an advantage which, he believed, she had miscalculated. He took his horse
back some distance and galloped at the stream. Hazel sat watching him with a
smile, just beyond where he should land. His horse shuffled its feet as it came
up to the bank. Then it lifted. Slosson clung to the horn of the saddle. Then
the horse landed, stumbled, fell, hurling its rider headlong in a perfect
quagmire of swamp. Slosson gathered himself up, a mass of mud and pretty well
wet through. Hazel was out of the saddle in a moment and offering him assistance
with every expression of concern. She came to the edge of the swamp and reached
out her quirt. The man ignored it. He ignored her, and scrambled to dry ground
without assistance. "I told you to take the bridge," Hazel cried shamelessly.
"You knew you were on a young horse. Oh dear, dear! What a terrible muss you're
in. My, but my daddy will be angry with me for--for letting this happen." Her
apparently genuine concern slightly mollified the man. "I thought you were
putting up another bluff at me, Miss Hazel," he said, still angrily. "Say, you
best quit bluffing me. I don't take 'em from anybody." "Bluff? Why, Mr. Slosson,
I couldn't bluff you. I--I warned you. Same as I did about the cat-jumping your
horse put up. Say, this is just dreadful. We'll have to get right back, and get
you dried out and cleaned. I guess that horse is too young for a--city man. I
ought to have given you Sunset. He'd have jumped that stream a mile--if you
wanted him to. Say--there, I'll have to round up your horse, he's making for
home." In a moment Hazel was in the saddle again, and the man alternately
watched her and scraped the thick mud off his clothes. He was decidedly angry.
His pride was outraged. But even these things began to pass as he noted the ease
and skill with which she rounded up the runaway horse. She was doing all she
could to help him out, and the fact helped to further mollify him. After all,
she _had_ warned him to take the bridge. Perhaps he had been too ready to see a
bluff in what she had suggested. After all, why should she attempt to bluff him?
He remembered how powerful he was to affect her father's interests, and took
comfort from it. She came back with the horse and dismounted. "Say," she cried,
in dismay, "that dandy suit of yours. It's all mussed to death. I'm real sorry,
Mr. Slosson. My word, won't my daddy be angry." The man began to smile under the
girl's evident distress, and, his temper recovered, his peculiar nature promptly
reasserted itself. "Say, Miss Hazel--oh, hang the 'miss.' You owe me something
for this, you do, an' I don't let folks owe me things long." "Owe?" Hazel's face
was blankly astonished. "Sure." The man eyed her in an unmistakable fashion.
Suddenly the girl began to laugh. She pointed at him. "Guess we'll need to get
you home and cleaned down some before we talk of anything else I owe. That
surely is something I owe you. Here, you get up into the saddle. I'll hold your
horse, he's a bit scared. We'll talk of debts as we ride back." But Slosson was
in no mood to be denied just now. Although his anger had abated, he felt that
Hazel was not to go free of penalty. He came to her as though about to take the
reins from her hand, but, instead, he thrust out an arm to seize her by the
waist. Then it was that a curious thing happened. The young horse suddenly
jumped backwards, dragging the girl with it out of the man's reach. It had
responded to the swift flick of Hazel's quirt, and left the man without
understanding, and his amorous intentions quite unsatisfied. The next moment the
girl was in her own saddle and laughing down at him. "I forgot," she cried,
"you'd just hate to have your horse held by a--girl. You best hurry into the
saddle, or you'll contract lung trouble in all that wet." Slosson cursed softly.
But he knew that she was beyond his reach in the saddle. A tacit admission that,
at least here, on the ranch, she dominated the situation. "And I've never been
able to show you those beeves, and convince you about ranching," Hazel sighed
regretfully later on, as they rode back towards the ranch. But her sigh was sham
and her heart was full of laughter. She was thinking of the delight she would
witness in Gordon's eyes, when he beheld the much besmirched suit of this man,
to whom he had taken such a dislike. CHAPTER XII

THINKING HARD

The days slipped by with great rapidity. They passed far too rapidly for Gordon.
The expectation of Silas Mallinsbee that David Slosson would eventually listen
to reason, and accept terms for himself similar to those agreeable to him on
behalf of the railroad, showed no sign of maturing. The firmness of his front in
no way seemed to affect the grafting agent, and from day to day, although the
rancher and his assistant waited patiently for a definite _denouement_, nothing
occurred to hold out promise one way or another. Mallinsbee said very little,
but he watched events with wide-open eyes, and not altogether without hope that
the man would be brought to reason. His eyes were on Hazel, smiling
appreciation, for Hazel was at work using every art of which she was capable to
frustrate any opposition to her father's plans, and to help on, as she described
it, the "good work." "I'm a 'sharper' in this, Mr. Van Henslaer," she declared,
in face of one of Gordon's frequent protests. "I'm no better than David Slosson.
And I--I want you to understand that. I think your ideas of chivalry are just
too sweet, but I want you to look with my eyes. We're a bunch of most ordinary
folk who want to win out. If you and my daddy thought by burying him, dead or
alive, you could beat his hand, why, I guess it would take an express locomotive
to stop you. Well, I'm out to try and put him out of harm's way in my own
fashion. If I can't do it, why, he'll find I'm not the dandy prairie flower he's
figuring I am just now. That's all. So meanwhile get on with any old plans you
can find up your sleeve. By hook or _crook_ we've _got_ to make good." By this
expression of the girl's extraordinary determination doubtless Gordon should
have been silenced. But he was not silenced, nor anything like it. The truth was
he was in love--wildly, passionately, jealously in love. It nearly drove him to
distraction to watch the way in which, almost daily, this man Slosson drove out
to see Hazel and take her out for buggy rides or horse riding. Not only that, he
and her father were practically ignored by the man. They were just so much
furniture in the office, and when by any chance the agent did deign to notice
them there was generally something offensive in his manner of address. Worst of
all, as the outcome of Hazel's campaign there were no signs that matters were
one whit advanced towards the successful completion of their project, and the
days had already grown into weeks. All Gordon could do was to busy himself with
formulating wild and impossible schemes for beating this creature. And a hundred
and one strenuous possibilities occurred to him, all of which, however, offered
no suggestion of bending the man, only of breaking him. The sum and substance of
all his efforts was a deadly yearning to kill David Slosson, kill him so dead as
to spoil forever his chances of resurrection. This was much the position when,
nearly three weeks later, in response to a peremptory note from Slosson in the
morning, Silas Mallinsbee decided that Gordon should deal with him on a business
visit in the afternoon. Oh yes, Gordon would interview him. Gordon would deal
with him. Gordon would love it above all things. Was he given a free hand? But
Mallinsbee smiled into the fiery eyes of the young giant and shook his head,
while Hazel looked on at the brewing storm with inscrutable eyes of amusement.
"There's no free hand for anybody in this thing, Gordon, boy," said Mallinsbee
slowly. "And I don't guess there's any crematoriums or undertakers' corporation
around Snake's Fall. Anyway, Hip-Lee wouldn't do a thing if you asked him to
bury a white man." "White man?" snorted Gordon furiously. "Remember you're--
fighting for my daddy as well as yourself, Mr. Van Henslaer," said Hazel
earnestly. Gordon sighed. "I'll remember," he said. And his two friends knew
that the matter was safe in his hands. Left alone in his office, Gordon endured
an unpleasant hour after his dinner. It was not the thoughts of his coming
interview that disturbed him. It was Hazel. It was of her he was always
thinking, when not actually engaged upon any duty. Every day made his thoughts
harder to bear. For awhile he sat before his desk, leaning back in his chair,
gazing blankly at the wooden wall opposite him. She was always the same to him;
his worst fits of temper seemed to make no difference. She only smiled and
humored or chided him as though he were some big, wayward child. Then the next
moment she would ride off with this vermin Slosson, full of merry sallies and
smiling graciousness, whom, he knew, if she had any right feeling at all, she
must loathe and despise. Well, if she did loathe him, she had a curious way of
showing it. He thrust his chair back with an angry movement, and walked off into
the bedroom opening out of the office. He looked in. The neatness of it, the
scent of fresh air pouring in through its open window, meant nothing to him. He
saw none of the work of the guiding hand which, in preparing it, had provided
for his comfort. Hip-Lee kept it clean and made his bed, the same as he cooked
his food. It did not occur to Gordon to whom Hip-Lee was responsible. There were
pictures on the walls, and it never occurred to Gordon that these had been taken
from Hazel's own bedroom at the ranch--for his enjoyment. Nor was he aware that
the shaving-glass and table had been specially purchased by Hazel for his
comfort. There were a dozen and one little comforts, none of which he realized
had been added to the room since it had been set aside for his use. He flung
himself upon the bed, all regardless of the lace pillow-sham which had once had
a place on Hazel's own bed. He was in that frame of mind when he only wanted to
get through the hours before Hazel's sunny presence again returned to the
office. He was angry with her. He was ready to think, did think, the hardest
thoughts of her; but he longed, stupidly, foolishly longed for her return,
although he knew that, with her return, fresh evidence of Slosson's attentions
to her and of her acceptance of them would be forthcoming. He was only allowed
another ten minutes in which to enjoy his moody misery. At the end of that time
he heard the rattle of wheels beyond the veranda, and sprang from his couch with
the battle light shining in his eyes. But disappointment awaited him. It was not
Slosson who presented himself. It was the altogether cheerful face of Peter
McSwain which appeared at the doorway. "Say," he cried. Then he paused and
glanced rapidly round the room. "Ain't Mallinsbee around?" he demanded eagerly.
Gordon shook his head. "Business?" he inquired. "If it's business I'm right here
to attend to it." Peter hesitated. "I s'pose you'd call it business," he said,
after a considering pause, during which he took careful stock of Mallinsbee's
representative. Then he went on, with a suggestion of doubt in his tone, "You
deal with his business--confidential?" Gordon smiled in spite of his recent
bitterness. He moved over to his desk and sat down, at the same time indicating
the chair opposite him. As soon as McSwain had taken his seat Gordon leaned
forward, gazing straight into the man's always hot-looking face. "See here, Mr.
McSwain, we're at a deadlock for the moment, as maybe you know. Later it'll
straighten itself out. I can speak plainly to you, because you're a friend of
Mr. Mallinsbee, and you're interested with us in this deal. I'm here to
represent Mr. Mallinsbee in everything, even to dealing with the railroad
people, so anything you've got to say, why, just go ahead. For practical
purposes you are talking to Mr. Mallinsbee." The disturbed Peter sighed his
relief. "I'm glad, because what I've got to say won't keep. If you folks don't
get a cinch on that dago-lookin' Slosson feller the game's up. He's askin'
options up at Snake's. He's not buyin' the land yet, just lookin' for options.
Maybe you know I got two plots on Main Street, besides my hotel. Well, he's made
a bid for options on 'em for two months. He says other folks are goin' to accept
his offer. There's Mike Callahan, the livery man. Slosson's been gettin' at him,
too. Mike come along and told me, and asked what he should do. I guessed I'd run
out and see Mallinsbee. If ther' ain't anything doin' here at Buffalo, why, it's
up to us to accept." The man mopped his forehead with a gorgeous handkerchief.
His eyes were troubled and anxious. He felt he would rather have dealt with
Mallinsbee. This youngster didn't look smart enough to deal with the situation.
Gordon was tapping the desk with a penholder. He was thinking very hard. He knew
that the definite movement had come at last, and that it was adverse to their
interests. This was the reply to Mallinsbee's resolve. For the moment the matter
seemed overwhelming. There seemed to be no counter-move for them to make. Then
quite suddenly he detected a sign of weakness in it. "Say," he demanded at last,
"why does the man want options? I take it options are to safeguard him _in case_
he wants to buy. This thing looks better than I thought. He's guessing he may
quarrel with us. He's thinking maybe we won't come to terms. He's worrying that
the news of that will get around, and that, in consequence, up will go prices in
Snake's. That'll mean the railroad 'll have to pay through the nose, and he'll
get into trouble if they have to buy up there. You see, the bedrock of this
layout is--this place has to boom anyway, and they've got to get in either here
or at Snake's." Peter rubbed his hands. His opinion of Gordon began to undergo
revision. "Then what are we to do?" The anxiety in his eyes was lessening.
Gordon sprang from his seat, and brought one hand down on his desk with a slam.
"Do? Why, let him go to hell. Refuse him any option," he cried fiercely. "Here,
I'll tell you what you do. And do it right away. How do you stand with the folks
up there?" "Good. They mostly listen when I talk," said Peter, with some pride.
"Fine!" cried Gordon. "We'll roast him some. See here, I know you're holding
with us. I know Mike is, and several others. Your interests are far and away
bigger here than in Snake's. So you'll get busy right away. You'll get all the
boys together who've got interests here. Tell 'em we've fallen out over the
railroad deal with Slosson. Tell 'em to get the town together, and then let 'em
explain about this rupture. I'll guarantee the rupture's complete. Make 'em
refuse all options and boost their prices for definite sale, and threaten to
raise 'em sky-high unless the railroad make a quick deal. Put a fancy figure on
your land at which he _daren't_ buy. You get that? Now I'll show you how we'll
stand. He's _got to come in on this place then_. He'll have to buy at our price,
because--_the railroad must get in_. You must play the town folks who've got
land there, but none here, to force the prices up on the strength of our quarrel
with the railroad, and I'll guarantee that quarrel's complete this afternoon.
Well?" The last vestige of Peter's worry had disappeared. His eyes shone
admiringly as he gazed at the smiling face of the man who had conceived so
unscrupulous a scheme. He nodded. "The railroad's got to get in," he agreed. "If
they can't get in here they've got to there. Offer him boom prices there, and if
he closes--which he _daren't_--we make our bits, anyway. If he don't, then he's
got to buy here _on your terms_, and--the depot comes here, and the boom with
it. Say, it's bright. An' you'll guarantee that scrap up?" "Sure." Peter sprang
to his feet. "That's Mallinsbee's--word?" "Absolutely." The man's hot face
became suddenly hotter, and his eyes shone. "I'll get right back and we'll hold
a meetin' to-night. Say, we've got to fool those who ain't got interests here--
they ain't more than fifty per cent.--and then we'll send prices sky-high. You
can bet on it, Mr. Van Henslaer, sir. All it's up to you to do is to turn him
down and drive him our way. We'll drive him back to you. It's elegant." Gordon
gave a final promise as they shook hands when Peter had mounted his buggy. Then
the hotel proprietor drove off in high glee. Gordon went back to his office
without any sensation of satisfaction. He had committed Mallinsbee to a definite
policy that might easily fall foul of that individual's ideas. But he had
committed him, and meant to carry the thing through against all opposition. The
cue had been too obvious for him to neglect. It was Slosson who had made a false
move. He was temporizing, instead of acting on a fighting policy, and it was
pretty obvious to him that his temporizing was due to his growing regard for
Hazel. The man was mad to ask for options. He was a fool--a perfect idiot. No,
the opportunity had been too good to miss. If Slosson had shown weakness, he did
not intend to do so. Then, as he sat down and further probed the situation, a
real genuine sensation of satisfaction did occur. There would no longer be any
necessity for Hazel to attempt to play the man. All in a moment he saw the whole
thing, and a wild delight and excitement surged through him. He was in the heart
of a youngster's paradise once more. The sun streaming in through the window was
one great blaze of heavenly light. The world was fair and joyous, and, for
himself, he was living in a palace of delight. It was in such mood that he heard
the approach of David Slosson. The agent entered the office with all the
arrogance of a detestable victor. His first words set Gordon's spine bristling,
although his welcoming smile was amiability itself. Slosson glanced round the
room, and, discovering only Gordon, flung himself into Mallinsbee's chair and
delivered himself of his orders. "Say, you best have your darned Chinaman take
my horse around back an' feed him hay. Where's Mallinsbee?" Gordon assumed an
almost deferential air, but ignored the order for the horse's care. "I'm sorry,
but Mr. Mallinsbee won't be around this afternoon. He's going up in the hills on
a shoot," he lied shamelessly. "Maybe for a week or two. Maybe only days." "What
in thunder? Say, was he here this morning? I sent word I was coming along."
Slosson's black eyes had narrowed angrily, and his pasty features were shaded
with the pink of rising temper. Gordon's eyes expressed simple surprise. "Sure,
he was here. Your note got along 'bout eleven. He guessed he couldn't stop
around for you. You see, a few caribou have been seen within twenty miles of the
ranch. They don't wait around for business appointments." Slosson brought one
fist down on the arm of his chair, and in a burst of anger almost shouted at the
deferential Gordon. "Caribou?" he exploded. "What in thunder is he chasin'
caribou for when there's things to be settled once and for all that won't keep?
Caribou? The man's crazy. Does he think I'm going to wait around while he gets
chasin'--caribou?" Gordon maintained a perfect equanimity, but he wanted to
laugh badly. He felt he could afford to laugh. "There's no need to 'wait
around,'" he deferred blandly. "I am here to act for Mr. Mallinsbee--absolutely.
The entire affairs of the township are in my hands, and I have his definite
instructions how to proceed. If you have any proposition to make I am prepared
to deal with it." For all his apparent deference a note had crept into Gordon's
tone which caught the suspicious ears of the railroad agent. He peered sharply
into the blue eyes of the man across the desk. "You have absolute power to deal
in Mallinsbee's interest?" he questioned harshly. "In _Mr._ Mallinsbee's
interests," assented Gordon. "Wal, what's his proposition?" The man's mustached
upper lip was slightly lifted and he showed his teeth. "Precisely what it was
when he first explained it to you." The deference had gone out of Gordon's
voice. Then, after the briefest of smiling pauses, he added--

"That is in so far as the railroad is concerned. For your own personal
consideration his offer of sites to you remains the same as regards price, but
the selection of position will be made by--us." Gordon was enjoying himself
enormously. He had taken the law into his own hands, and intended to put things
through in his own way. He expected an outburst, but none was forthcoming. David
Slosson was beginning to understand. He was taking the measure of this man. He
was taking other measures--the measure of the whole situation. Of a sudden he
realized that he was being told, in his own pet phraseology, to--go to hell. He
had consigned many people in that direction during his life, but somehow his own
consignment was quite a different matter, especially through the present
channel. He pulled himself up in his chair and squared his shoulders
truculently. "I guess Mallinsbee knows what this means--for him?" he inquired
sharply, but coldly. "I fancy _Mr._ Mallinsbee does." "Now, see here, Mister--I
ferget your name," Slosson cried, with sudden heat. "I'm not the man to be
played around with. If this is your _Mister_ Mallinsbee's final offer, it just
means that the railroad can't do business with him. Which means also that his
whole wild-cat land scheme falls flat, and is so much waste ground, only fit for
grazing his rotten cattle on. I'm not here to mince words----"

"No," concurred Gordon in a steady, cold tone. "I said I'm not here to mince
words. If I can't get my original terms there's nothing doing, and I'll even
promise, seeing we're alone, to get right out of my way to sew up this concern,
lock, stock and barrel." "That seems to be the obvious thing to do from your
point of view--if you can," said Gordon calmly. "Seeing that _Mr._ Mallinsbee is
nearly as rich as a railroad corporation, there may be difficulties. Anyway,
threats aren't business talk, and generally display weakness. So, if you've no
business to talk, if you don't feel like coming in on our terms--why, that's the
door, and I guess your horse is still waiting for that hay you seemed to think
just now he needed." Gordon picked up a pen and proceeded deliberately to start
writing a letter. He felt that David Slosson had something to digest, and needed
time. All he feared now was that Mallinsbee or Hazel might come in before he rid
the place of this precious representative of the railroad. After a few moments
he glanced up from his letter. "Still here?" he remarked, with upraised brows.
In a moment Slosson started from the brown study into which he had fallen and
leaped to his feet. His narrow black eyes were blazing. His pasty features were
ghastly with fury, and Gordon, gazing up at him, found himself wondering how it
came that the hot summer sun of the prairie was powerless to change its hue. The
agent thrust out one clenched fist threateningly, and fairly shouted at the man
behind the desk--

"I'll make you all pay for this--Mallinsbee as well as you. You think you can
play me--me! You think you can play the railroad I represent! I'll show you just
what your bluff is worth. You, a miserable crowd of land pirates! I tell you
your land isn't worth grazing price without our depot. And I promise you I'll
break the whole concern----"

"Meanwhile," said Gordon, deliberately rising from his seat and moving round his
desk, "try that doorway, before I--break you. There it is." He pointed.
"Hustle!" There comes a moment when the wildest temper reaches its limits. And
even the most furious will pause at the brick wall of possible physical
violence. David Slosson had spat out all his venom, or as much of it as seemed
politic. The threatening attitude of Gordon, his monumental size and obvious
strength, his cold determination, all convinced him that further debate was
useless. So he drew back at the "brick wall" and negotiated the doorway as
quickly as possible. Two minutes later Gordon sighed in a great relief, and
passed a hand across his perspiring forehead. Slosson had passed out of view as
Mallinsbee, on the back of the great Sunset, appeared on the horizon. "That was
a close call," he muttered. "Two minutes more and the old man might have spoiled
the whole scheme." Silas Mallinsbee's personality seemed to crowd the little
office when, five minutes later, he entered to find Gordon busy at his desk
writing a letter home to his mother. Gordon displayed no sign of his recent
encounter when he looked up. His ingenuous face was smiling, and his blue eyes
were full of an obvious satisfaction. Mallinsbee read the signs and rumbled out
an inquiry. "Slosson been around?" Gordon nodded. "Sure." "Fixed anything?"
"Quite a--lot." "You're lookin' kind of--happy?" "Guess that's more than--
Slosson was." Mallinsbee's eyes became quite serious. "I told Hazel just now I'd
get along back. You see, I kind of remembered you just weren't sweet on Slosson,
and guessed after all I'd best be around when he came. Hazel thought it might be
as well, too. Specially as she didn't want to sit around and find no Slosson
turn up. So----"

Gordon was on his feet in an instant. All his smile had vanished. A look of real
alarm had taken its place. "She was waiting for that skunk? Where?" he demanded
in a tone that suddenly filled the father with genuine alarm. "He was to go on
to the coalpits after he was through here, and she was to meet him there an'
ride over to the young horse corrals where they been breaking. She was to let
him see the boys doin' a bit o' broncho bustin'. What's----"

"The coalpits? That's the way he took. Say, for God's sake stay right here--and
let me use Sunset. I----"

But Gordon did not wait to finish what he had to say. He was out of the house
and had leaped into the saddle before Mallinsbee could attempt to protest. The
next moment he was galloping straight across country in the direction of the
Bude and Sideley's Coal Company's workings. CHAPTER XIII

SLOSSON SNATCHES AT OPPORTUNITY

Gordon had taken David Slosson's measure perfectly, notwithstanding his own
comparative inexperience of the world. Apart from the agent's business methods,
he had seen through the man himself with regard to Hazel. Hence, now his most
serious alarm. The memory of those lascivious eyes gazing after Hazel in the
Main Street of Snake's Fall, on his first day in the town, had never left him,
and though he had listened to Hazel's positive assurance of her own safety in
dealing with the man a subtle fear had continually haunted him. This was quite
apart from his own jealous feelings. It was utterly unprejudiced by them. He
knew that sooner or later, unless a miracle happened, Hazel would become the
victim of insult. Deep down in his heart, somewhere, far underneath his
passionate jealousy, he knew that Hazel was only encouraging Slosson that she
might help on their common ends, but he had always doubted her cleverness to
carry such a matter through successfully. To his mind there could only be one
end to it all, and that end--insult. Now the thing was almost a certainty. With
Slosson in his present mood anything might happen. So he pressed Sunset to a
rattling gallop. If Slosson insulted her----? But he was not in the mood to
think--only to act. That his fears were well enough founded was pretty obvious.
David Slosson, as he hurried away from Mallinsbee's office, knew that he had
played the game of his own advantage and--lost. This sort of thing had not often
happened, and on those rare occasions on which it had happened he had so
contrived that those who had caused him a reverse paid fairly dearly in the end.
He was one of those men who believed that if a man only squeezed hard enough
blood could be contrived from a stone. Against every successful offensive of the
enemy there was nearly always a way of "getting back." That he could "get back"
on the commercial side of the present affair he possessed not the smallest
doubt. He would "recommend" to his company that the present depot at Snake's
Fall, with certain enlargements, and the private line to be built by the Bude
and Sideley Coal people, were all that was sufficient to serve the public, and,
through his judicious purchase of sites in the old township, a far more
profitable enterprise for them than the new township could offer. Personally, he
would have to sacrifice his own interests. But since Mallinsbee and his cub of
an office boy would be badly "stung," the matter would not be without
satisfaction to his revengeful nature. Then there was that other matter--and he
moistened his thin lips as he contemplated it. In spite of all Gordon's lack of
faith in Hazel's efforts, they had not been without effect. Slosson had been
flattered. His vanity had seen conquest in Hazel's readiness to accept his
company. It had been obvious to him from the first that the manner in which he
had displayed his "nerve" before her at the ranch pleased her more than a
little. After all, she was a mere country girl--a "rube" girl. Nor was it likely
that she would be difficult now. She was pretty, pretty as a picture. Her figure
appealed to his sensual nature. She didn't know a thing--outside her ranch.
Well, he could teach her. Especially now. Oh, yes, it was all very opportune. He
would teach her all he knew. He laughed. He would teach her for--her father's
sake. And--yes, for the sake of that young cub of a man that had ordered him out
of the office. What was his name--"Van Henslaer"? Yes, that was it. A "square-
head," he supposed. The country was full of these American-speaking German
"square-heads." Then quite suddenly he began to laugh. For the first time since
he came to Snake's Fall the thought occurred to him that possibly this fellow
was in love with Hazel himself. He had been so busy prosecuting his own
attentions to her himself that he had never considered the possibility of
another man being in the running. The thought inspired an even more pleasant
sensation. It threw a new light upon Van Henslaer's attitude. Well, there was
not much doubt as to who was the favored man. The fellow's very attitude
suggested his failure. Slosson felt he was going to reap better than had seemed
at first. He would ruin Mallinsbee's schemes and satisfy his company at a slight
personal loss to himself. He would complete his triumph over the individual in
Mallinsbee's office. First of all, through Mallinsbee's failure in the land
scheme, by robbing him of a position, and secondly, through robbing him of all
chance of success with the girl. It was not too bad a retort. He would have made
it harsher if he could, but, for a start, it would have to do. Later, of course,
since he would see a great deal of Snake's Fall and his power in the place would
increase, he would extend operations against his enemies. Hazel must be his--his
entirely. To that he had made up his mind. She was much too desirable to be
"running loose," he told himself. Marriage was out of the question, unless he
wished to commit bigamy; a pleasantry at which he laughed silently. Anyway, if
it were possible, it would not have suited him. Marriage would have robbed him
of the right to break up her father's land scheme. No, marriage was---- Well, he
was married--to his lasting regret. Hazel was very attractive; very. He could
quite understand a man making a fool of himself over her. He had once made a
fool of himself, and in consequence marriage was very cheap from his point of
view. He regarded women now as lawful prey. And apart from Hazel's
attractiveness, which was very, very seductive, it would be a pretty piece of
getting back on her father and that other. He laughed again. It was quaint. The
prettier a woman the greater the fool she was. So he rode on towards the
coalpits. His narrow eyes were alert, watching the horizon on every side. He was
looking for that fawn-colored figure on its brown mare. His thoughts were full
of it now. The rest was all thrust into the background, leaving full play to his
desires, which were fast overwhelming all caution. It would have been impossible
to overwhelm his sense of decency. Suddenly it occurred to him that it was
ridiculous that he should go on to the coalpits. His eagerness was swaying him.
His mad longing for the girl swept everything before it. Why should he not cut
across to the westward and intercept her on the way from the ranch? She must
come that way, and--he could not possibly miss her. He looked at his watch. It
wanted half an hour to their appointment. Why, he would be at the pits in ten
minutes, which would leave him a full twenty minutes of waiting. In his mood of
the moment it was a thought quite impossible. So he swung his horse westwards,
with his eyes even more watchful for the approach of the figure he was seeking.
Perhaps Hazel was late. Perhaps Slosson was traveling faster than he knew.
Anyway, he was already in the shadow of the bigger hills when he discovered the
speeding brown mare with its dainty burden. Hazel discovered him almost at the
same instant, and reined in her horse to let him come up. In a moment or two his
roughly familiar greeting jarred her ears. "Hello!" he cried. "There never was a
woman who could keep time worth a cent. I guessed you'd strayed some, so I got
along quick." He had reined up facing her on the cattle track, and his sensual
eyes covertly surveyed her from head to foot. "Why, you haven't been near the
pits," protested Hazel, avoiding his gaze. "You've come across country. Anyway,
it's not time yet." She pulled off a gauntlet and held up her wrist for him to
look at the watch upon it. He reached out, caught her hand, and drew it towards
him on the pretense of looking at the watch. His eyes were shining dangerously
as he did so. Just for an instant Hazel was taken unawares. Then her pretty eyes
suddenly lost their smile, and she drew her hand sharply away. Slosson looked
up. "Your watch is wrong," he declared, with a grin intended to be facetious,
but which scarcely disguised the feelings lying behind it. Hazel was smiling
again. She shook her head. "It isn't," she denied. "But come on, or we'll miss
the fun. I've got a youngster there in the corrals, never been saddled or man-
handled. I'm going to ride him for your edification when the boys are through
with the others. It's a mark of my favor which you must duly appreciate." She
led the way back towards the hills at a steady canter. "Say, you've got nerve,"
cried Slosson, in genuine admiration. "Never been saddled?" "Or man-handled,"
returned Hazel, determined he should lose nothing of her contemplated adventure.
"He was rounded up this morning at my orders out of a bunch of three-year-old
prairie-bred colts. You'll surely see some real bucking--not cat-jumping," she
added mischievously. "Say, you can't forget that play," cried the man, with some
pride. "I'd have got on that hoss if he'd bucked to kingdom-come. I don't take
any bluff from a girl." "I s'pose girls aren't of much account with you? They're
just silly things with no sense or--or anything. Some men are like that." A warm
glow swept through the man's veins. "I allow it just depends on the girl."
"Maybe you don't reckon I've got sense?" Slosson gazed at her with a meaning
smile. "I've seen signs," he observed playfully. "Thanks. You've surely got keen
eyes. Black eyes are mostly keen. Say, I wonder how much sense they reckon
they've seen in me?" "Well, I should say they've seen that you reckon David
Slosson makes a tolerable companion to ride around with. Which is some sense."
Hazel turned, and her pretty eyes looked straight into his. A man of less vanity
might have questioned the first glance of them. But Slosson only saw the
following smile. "Just tolerable," she cried, in a fashion which could not give
offense. Then she abruptly changed the subject. "Get through your business at--
the office?" she inquired casually. Slosson's eyes hardened. In a moment the
memory of Gordon swept through his brain in a tide of swift, hot anger. "There's
nothing doing," he said harshly. Hazel turned. A quick alarm was shining in her
eyes, and the man interpreted it exactly. Caution was abruptly cast to the
winds. "Say, Hazel," he cried hotly, "I'm going to tell you something. Your
father's a--a fool. Oh, I don't mean it just that way. I mean he's a fool to set
that boy running things for him. He's plumb killed your golden goose. We've
broken off negotiations. That's all. The railroad don't need Buffalo Point."
"But what's Gordon done?" the girl cried, for the moment off her guard. "Father
gave him instructions. You had an offer to make, and it was to be considered--
duly." "What's Gordon done?" The man's eyes were hot with fury. "So that's
it--'Gordon.' He's 'Gordon,' eh?" All in a moment venom surged to the surface.
The man's unwholesome features went ghastly in his rage. "He turned me--me out
of the office. He told me to go to hell. Say, that pup has flung your father's
whole darned concern right on to the rocks. So it's 'Gordon,' eh? To everybody
else he's 'Van Henslaer,' but to you he's 'Gordon.' That's why he's on to me, I
guessed as much. Well, say, you've about mussed up things between you. My back's
right up, and I'm cursed if the railroad 'll move for the benefit of those
interested in Buffalo Point." Hazel had heard enough. More than enough. Her
temper had risen too. "Look here, Mr. Slosson. I don't pretend to mistake your
inference. Gordon is just a good friend of mine," she declared hotly. "But I've
no doubt that whatever he did was justified. If we're going on any farther
together you're going to apologize right here and now for what you've said about
Gordon." She reined up her mare so sharply that the startled creature was flung
upon her haunches, and the man's livery horse went on some yards farther before
it was pulled up. But Slosson came back at once and ranged alongside. They were
already in the bigger hills, and one shaggy crag, overshadowing them, shut out
the dazzling gleam of the westering sun. "There's going to be the need of a heap
of apology around," cried Slosson, but something of his anger was melting before
the girl's flashing eyes. Then, too, the moment was the opportunity he had been
seeking. "See here, Hazel----"

"Don't you dare to call me 'Hazel,'" the girl flung out at him hotly. "You will
apologize here and now." There was no mistaking her determination, and the man
watched her with furtive eyes. He pretended to consider deeply before he
replied. At a gesture of impatience from the girl he finally flung out one arm.
"See here," he cried, "maybe I oughtn't to have said that, and I guess I
apologize. But--you see, I was sort of mad when you talked that way about
this--'Gordon.'" His teeth clipped over the word. "You see, Hazel," he
insinuated again, "we've had a real good time together, and you made it so plain
I'm not--indifferent to you that it just stung me bad to hear you speak
of--'Gordon.' I'm crazy about you, I am sure. I'm so crazy I can't sleep at
nights. I'm so crazy that I'd let the railroad folk go hang just for you--if you
just asked me. I'd even forget all that feller said, and would pool in on
Buffalo Point the way your father needs--if you asked me." He waited. He had
thrown every effort of persuasion he was capable of into his words and manner,
and Hazel was deceived. She did not observe the furtive eyes watching her. She
was only aware of the almost genuine manner of his pleading. "If I asked you?"
she said thoughtfully. Then she looked up quickly, her eyes half smiling. "Of
course I ask you." In a moment the man pressed nearer. "And you'll play the
game?" he asked almost breathlessly. All in a moment a subtle fear of him swept
through the girl. Instinctively her hand tightened its grip on the heavy quirt
swinging from her wrist. "What do you mean?" she demanded in a low tone. The
man's eyes were shining with the meaning lying behind his words. There should
have been no necessity to ask that question. Quite suddenly he reached farther
out and seized her about the waist with one hand, while with the other he caught
her reins to check her mare. The next moment he had crushed her to him and his
flushed face was close to hers. "There's only one game," he cried hoarsely.
"And----"

But he got no further. Like a flash of lightning Hazel's quirt slashed furiously
at him. The blow was wild and missed its object. It fell on his horse's head and
neck. Again it was raised, and again it fell on the horse and on her mare. The
horse plunged aside and her own mare started forward. The next moment both
riders were on the ground, struggling violently. Sunset plowed along over the
prairie. True enough, he was the rocking-horse Hazel had declared him to be. But
she might have added that he was the speediest horse ever foaled on her father's
range. Gordon was in no mood to spare him. But, press him as he might, he seemed
incapable of sounding the full depths of his resources. Had Gordon only taken
the course of the impatient Slosson he would have arrived in time to have
prevented the catastrophe. But as it was he made the coalpits, and, finding no
trace of either Hazel or the agent, with prompt decision he headed at once for
the southern corrals. It was some time before he discovered the tracks he
sought, and was beginning to think that in some extraordinary fashion he had
missed them altogether. The thought stirred his jealousy, and--but he put all
doubt from his mind, and further bustled the long-suffering Sunset. Then came
the moment when he first saw the hoof-prints in the sand of the cattle track. In
a moment his thoughts cleared and his old fears urged him on. He was right now,
he knew. The hills about him were growing in height and ruggedness. The corrals
were only a few miles on, and Sunset was racing down the track as if he were
aware of the threatening danger to the girl whom he had so often carried on his
back. But even if he were he was utterly unprepared for the furious thrashing of
his present rider's heels which came as they were approaching one great shaggy
hill to the south of them, in answer to a thin, high-pitched shrill for "Help!"
Gordon heard and understood. He had been right, after all, and a terrible panic
and fury assailed him. Sunset was racing now, with his barrel low to the ground.
Then as they came into the shadow of the hill the faithful creature felt the bit
in his mouth jar suddenly and painfully, and he nearly sank on to his haunches.
Gordon was out of the saddle and rushing headlong like some rage-maddened bull.
Something had happened, and Hazel, in a partial daze, scarcely understood quite
what it was. All she knew was that she was no longer struggling desperately in
the arms of a man, with his hideous face thrust towards hers with obvious
intention. She had fought as she had never dreamed of having to fight in all her
life, and in her extremity she had shrilled again and again for "Help!" which,
had she thought, she would have known was miles from the lonely spot where she
was struggling. Then had happened that something she could not understand. She
only knew that she was no longer struggling, and that hideous, coarse, passion-
lit face had vanished from before her terrified eyes. She had heard a voice, a
familiar voice, hoarse with passion. The words it had uttered were the foulest
blasphemy, such words as only a man uses when in the heat of battle and his
desire is to kill. Then had passed that nightmare face from before her eyes.
After some moments her mental faculties became less uncertain, and with their
clearing she became aware of a confusion of sounds. She heard the sound of blows
and the incessant shuffling of feet through the tall prairie grass. She looked
about her. All in a minute she was on her feet, her eyes wide and staring with
an expression half of terror, half of the wildest excitement. A fight was going
on--a fight in which six feet three of science was arrayed against lesser
stature but equal strength and a blend of animal fury which yearned to kill.
David Slosson came at his hated adversary in lunging rushes and with all his
weight and muscle, hoping to clinch and reduce the battle to the less scientific
condition of a "rough-and-tumble" as it is known only in America. Once he could
achieve a definite clinch he knew that the advantage would lie with him. He knew
the game of "chew and gouge" as few men knew it. He had learned it in his
earlier days of lumber camps. But Gordon had steadied himself from his first mad
rush. It was the sight of Hazel in this man's clutches that had roused the
desire for murder in his hot blood. Now it was different. Now it was a fight, a
fight such as he could enjoy; and such were his feelings that he was determined
it should be a fight to a finish, even if that finish should mean a killing. He
had no difficulty in punishing. His opponent's arms came at him wildly, while
his own leads and counters struck home with smashes of a staggering nature.
Twice he got in an upper-cut which set his man reeling, and in each case he
smashed home his left immediately with all the force of his great shoulders. But
David Slosson was tough. He seemed to thrive on punishment, and he came again
and again. Gordon was in his element. His physical condition had never been more
perfect, and, provided that clinch was prevented, nothing on earth could save
his man. The blood was already streaming from Slosson's cheek, and an ugly split
disfigured his lower lip. Now he came in with his head down--a favorite bull
rush of the "rough-and-tumble." Gordon saw it coming and waited. He side-
stepped, and smashed a terrific blow behind the left ear. The man stumbled, but
saved himself. With an inarticulate attempt at an oath he was at the boxer
again. Another rush, but it checked half-way, and a violent kick was aimed at
Gordon's middle. It missed its mark, but caught him on the side of the knee. The
pain of the blow for a moment robbed the younger man of his caution. He
responded with a smashing left and right. They both landed, but in the rush his
loose coat was caught and held as the agent fell. Slosson clung to the coat as a
terrier will cling to a stick. In spite of the rain of blows battering his head
he held on. It was the first hold he needed. The second came a moment later. His
other arm crooked about Gordon's right knee. The next moment they were on the
ground in the throes of a wild, demoniacal "rough-and-tumble." The science of
the boxer could serve Gordon no longer. He knew it. He knew also that the fight
was more than leveled up. The struggle had degenerated into an inhuman aim for
those vital parts which would leave the victim blind or maimed for life. By the
luck of Providence he fell uppermost. His hands being free and his strength at
its greatest, also possessing nothing of the degraded mind of the rough-and-
tumble fighter, he went for his opponent's throat, and got his grip just as he
felt the other's teeth clip, in a savage snap, at his right ear. It was a happy
miss, or he knew he would have spent the rest of his life with only one ear, and
possibly part of the other. But there were other things to avoid. He crushed the
man's head upon the ground, while his great hands tightened their grip upon his
throat. But Slosson's hands were not idle. They struggled up, and Gordon felt
that they were groping for his throat. His own pressure increased. "Squeal, you
swine!" he roared. "Squeal, or I'll choke the life out of you!" The man was
unable to squeal under the terrible throat-hold. His breath was coming in gasps.
All of a sudden those groping hands made a lunge at Gordon's eyes. One finger
even struck his left eye with intent to gouge it out. Gordon threw back his
head, but dared not release his hold. His only other defense was an instinctive
one. He opened his mouth and made a wolfish snap at the hand that had sought to
blind him. He bit three of its fingers to the bone. There was a cry from the man
under his hands, and the straining body beneath him ceased to struggle. Gordon
released his hold and stood up. He aimed one violent kick of disgust at the
man's ribs and turned away. CHAPTER XIV

THE REWARD OF VICTORY

Gordon breathed hard. He wiped the dust from his perspiring face, as a man
almost unconsciously will do after a great exertion. His eyes, however, remained
on his defeated adversary. Presently he moved away a little uncertainly. A
moment later, equally uncertainly, he picked up his soft felt hat. Then, his
gaze still steadily fixed on the object of his concern, he all unconsciously
smoothed his ruffled hair and replaced his hat upon his head. Hazel, too, was
tensely regarding the deathly silent figure of David Slosson. A subtle fear was
clutching at her heart. So still. He was so very still. Gordon's breathing
became normal, but his eyes remained absurdly grave. He approached the prostrate
man. But before he reached his side he paused abruptly and breathed a deep sigh
of relief--and began to laugh. "Right!" he cried. Nor was he addressing any one
in particular. Hazel heard his exclamation, and the clutching fear at her heart
relaxed its grip. She understood that Gordon, too, had shared her dread. Now she
shifted her regard to the victor. Her eyes were full of a deep, unspeakable
feeling. Gordon was looking in another direction, so, for the moment, she had
nothing to conceal. The man's attention was upon the horses. A strange
diffidence made him reluctant to follow his impulse and approach Hazel. He had
no pride in his victory. Only regret for the exhibition he had made before her.
Sunset and Slosson's horse were grazing amicably together within twenty yards of
the trail. The fight had disturbed them not one whit. The Lady Jane had moved
off farther, and, in proud isolation, ignored everybody and everything concerned
with the indecent exhibition. Gordon secured the livery horse to a bush, and
rode off on Sunset to collect the Lady Jane. When he returned the defeated man
was stirring. One glance told Gordon all he cared to know, and he passed over to
where Hazel was still standing, and in silence and quite unsmilingly he held the
Lady Jane for her to mount. Hazel avoided his eyes, but not from any coldness.
She feared lest he should witness that which now, with all her might, she
desired to conceal. Her feelings were stirred almost beyond her control. This
man had come to her rescue--he had rescued her--by that great chivalrous manhood
that was his. And somehow she felt that she might have known that he would do
so. Gordon was looking at David Slosson, who was already sitting up. Once Hazel
was in the saddle he moved nearer to the disfigured agent. "If you're looking
for any more," he said coldly, "you can find it. But don't you ever come near
Buffalo Point again or Mallinsbee's ranch. If you do--I'll kill you!" David
Slosson made no reply. But his eyes followed the two figures as they rode off,
full of a bitter hatred that boded ill for their futures should chance come his
way. For some time the speeding horses galloped on, their riders remaining
silent. A strange awkwardness had arisen between them. There was so much to say,
so much to explain. Neither of them knew how to begin, or where. So they were
nearing home when finally it was Gordon whose sense of humor first came to the
rescue. They had drawn their horses down to a walk to give them a breath. Gordon
turned in his saddle. His blue eyes were absurdly smiling. "Well?" he observed
interrogatively. The childlike blandness of his expression was all Hazel needed
to help her throw off the painful restraint that was fast overwhelming her.
Again he had saved her, but this time it was from tears. "Well?" she smiled back
at him through the watery signs of unshed tears. "I guess Sunset 'll hate this
trail worse than anything around Buffalo Point," Gordon said, with a great
effort at ease. "He got a flogging I'll swear he never merited." "Dear old
Sunset," said the girl softly. "And--and he can go." "Go? Why, he's an express
train. Say, the Twentieth Century, Limited, isn't a circumstance to him."
Gordon's laugh sounded good in Hazel's ears, and the last sign of tears was
banished. It had been touch and go. She had wanted to laugh and to scream during
the fight. Afterwards she had wanted only to weep. Now she just felt glad she
was riding beside a man whom she regarded as something in the nature of a hero.
"I sort of feel I owe him an apology," Gordon went on doubtfully. "Same as I owe
you one. I--I'm afraid I made a--a disgusting exhibition of myself. I--I wish I
hadn't nearly bitten off that cur's fingers. It's--awful. It--was that or lose
my eyesight." Hazel had nothing to say. A shiver passed over her, but it was
caused by the thought that the man beside her might have been left blinded. "You
see, that was 'rough and tough,'" Gordon went on, feeling that he must explain.
"It's not human. It's worse than the beasts of the fields. I--I'm ashamed. But I
had to save my eyes. I thought I'd killed him." "I'm glad you didn't," Hazel
said in a low voice. Then she added quickly, "But not for his sake." Gordon
nodded. "He deserved anything." Suddenly Hazel turned a pair of shining eyes
upon him. "Oh, I wish I were a man!" she cried. "Deserved? Oh, he deserved
everything; but so did I.  I'll never do it again. Never, never, never! You
warned me. You knew. And it was only you who saved me from the result of my
folly. I--I thought I was smart enough to deal with him. I--I thought I was
clever." She laughed bitterly. "I thought, because I run our ranch and can do
things that few girls can that way, I could beat a man like that. Say, Mr. Van
Henslaer, I'm--just what he took me for--a silly country girl. Oh, I feel so mad
with myself, and if it hadn't been for you I don't know what would have
happened. Oh, if I could only have fought like you. It--it was wonderful. And--I
brought it all on you by my folly." There was a strange mixture of emotion in
the girl's swift flow of words. There was a bitter feeling of self-contempt, a
vain and helpless regret; but in all she said, in her shining eyes and warmth of
manner, there was a scarcely concealed delight in her rescuer's great manhood,
courage and devotion. If Gordon beheld it, it is doubtful if he read it aright.
For himself, a great joy that he had been of service in her protection pervaded
him. Just now, for him, all life centered round Hazel Mallinsbee and her well-
being. "You brought nothing on," he said, his eyes smiling tenderly round at
her. "He's a disease that would overtake any girl." Then he began to laugh, with
the intention of dispelling all her regrets. "Say, he's just one of life's
experiences, and experience is generally unpleasant. See how much he's taught us
both. You've learned that a feller who can wear a suit that sets all sense of
good taste squirming most generally has a mind to match it. I've learned that no
honesty of methods, whether in scrapping or anything else, is a match for the
unscrupulous methods of a low-down mind. Guess we'll both pigeon-hole those
facts and try not to forget 'em. But say--there's worse worrying," he added,
with an absurdly happy laugh. "Worse?" "Only worse because it hasn't happened
yet--like the other things have. You see, the worst always lies in those things
we don't know." "You're thinking of the Buffalo Point scheme?" "Partly."
"Partly?" "Did he tell you anything?" Hazel nodded. "He said you'd--turned him
out of the office." "That all?" Gordon was chuckling. "He said you'd told him to
go to----"  Hazel's eyes were smiling. "Just so. I did," returned Gordon.
"That's the trouble now. I've got to face your father. I've hit on a plan to
beat this feller. I've got the help of Peter McSwain and some of the boys at
Snake's. I'd a notion we'd pull the thing off, so I just took it into my own
hands--and your father don't know of it. I'm worrying how he'll feel. You see,
if I fail, why, I've busted the whole contract. And now this thing. Say, what's
going to happen next?" As he put his final question his smiling face looked
ludicrously serene. Hazel had entirely recovered from her recent experiences.
She laughed outright. More and more this man appealed to her. His calm, reckless
courage was a wonderful thing in her eyes. Their whole schemes might be
jeopardized by that afternoon's work, but he had acted without thought of
consequence, without thought of anybody or anything beyond the fact that he
yearned to beat this man Slosson, and would spare nothing to do so. What was
this wild scheme he had suddenly conceived, almost the first moment he was left
in sole control? She tried to look serious. "Can you tell it me now?" she asked.
"I could, of course, but----"

"You'd rather wait to see father about it." "I don't know," said Gordon, with a
wry twist of the lips and a shrug. "Say, did you ever feel a perfect, idiotic
fool? No, of course you never have, because you couldn't be one. I feel that
way. Guess it's a sort of reaction. I just know I've busted everything. The
whole of our scheme is on the rocks, through me, and, for the life of me,
somehow I--I don't care. I've hit up that cur so he won't want his med'cine
again for years, and it was good, because it was for you. So I don't just care
two cents about anything. Say, I'm learning I'm alive, same as you talked about
the first day I met you, and it's you are teaching me. But the champagne of life
isn't just Life. Guess Life is just a cheap claret. You're the champagne of my
life. That being so, I guess I'm a drunkard for champagne." Hazel was held
serious by some feeling that also kept her silent. Somehow she could no longer
face those shining, smiling, ingenuous blue eyes. She wanted to, because she
felt they were the most beautiful in the whole world, and she longed to go on
gazing into them forever and ever. But something forced her to deny herself, and
she kept hers straight ahead. Gordon went on. "Say, I haven't said anything
wrong, have I?" he cried, fearful of her displeasure. "You see, I can't put
things as they run through my head. That's one of the queer things about a
feller. You know, I've got a whole heap of beautiful language running around in
my head, and when I try to turn it loose it comes out all mussed up and wrong.
Guess you've never been like that. That's where girls are so clever. D'you know,
if you were to ask me just to pass the salt at supper it would sound to me like
the taste of ice-cream?" Hazel looked round at the earnest face with a swift
sidelong glance. Then her laughter would no longer be denied. "Would it?" she
cried. "Say, don't laugh at a feller. I'm in great trouble," Gordon went on
quickly. "Trouble?" "Sure. Wouldn't you be if you'd bust up a man's scheme the
same as I have, and if the only person in the world whose opinion you cared for
can't help but think you all sorts of a fool?" Hazel's smile had become very,
very tender. "Who thinks you a--fool?" "Anybody with sense." "Then I'm afraid
I've got no sense." Gordon found himself looking into the girl's serious eyes.
"You--don't think me--a--fool?" he cried incredulously. Hazel had no longer any
inclination to laugh. A great emotion suddenly surged through her heart, and her
pretty oval face was set flushing. "When a woman owes a man what I owe you, if
he were the greatest fool in the world to others, to that woman he becomes all
that is great and fine, and--and--oh, just everything she can think good of him.
But you--you are not a fool, or anything approaching it. I don't care what you
have done in our affairs--for me, whatever it is, it is right. I'll tell you
something more. I am certain that if my daddy wins through it will be your
doing." Gordon had nothing to say. He was dumbfounded. Hazel, in her generosity,
was the woman he had always dreamed of since that first day he had seen her,
which seemed so far back and long ago. He had nothing to say, because there was
just one thought in his mind, and that thought was, then and there to take her
in his arms and release her for no man, not even her----

Hazel was pointing along the trail. "Why, there is my daddy coming along--on
foot. I've never--known him to walk a prairie trail ever before, I wonder what's
ailing him." And then Gordon had to laugh. They were back in the office. By
every conceivable process Silas Mallinsbee had sought to discover what had
happened. But Hazel would tell him nothing, and Gordon followed her lead. The
old man was disturbed. He was on the verge of anger with both of them. Then
Hazel lifted the safety valve as she remounted her mare, preparatory to a hasty
retreat homewards. "I'll get back to home, Daddy," she said, in a tone lacking
all her usual enthusiasm. "Mr. Van Henslaer has a lot to tell you about things,
and when I am not here he'll be able to tell you all that happened--out there."
Gordon again took his cue. "Yes, I've a heap to tell you," he said, without any
display of enjoyment. The men passed into the office as Hazel took her
departure. Her farewell wave of the hand and its accompanying smile for once
were not for her father. Even in the midst of his mixed feelings that obvious
farewell to Gordon made the old rancher feel a breath of the winter he had once
spoken of, nipping the rims of his ears. And his mind settled upon the thought
of banking the furnaces with--coal. He took his seat in the big chair he always
used and lit a cigar. Gordon went at once to his desk and sat down. He leaned
forward with hands clasped, and looked squarely into the strong face before him.
"It's bad talk," he said briefly. "So I guessed." Then, after a few moments of
silence, Gordon recounted the story of the events of the afternoon right up to
Mallinsbee's arrival at the office. The rancher listened without comment, but
with obvious impatience. This was not what he wanted to hear first. But Gordon
had his own way of doing things. "You see, I took a big chance on the spur of
the moment," he finished up. "I just didn't dare to think. The idea took right
hold of me. And even now, when I tell it you in cold blood, I seem to feel it
was one of those inspirations that don't need to be passed by. In the ordinary
way I believe it would succeed. Slosson would have been driven into our plans.
But--but now there's worse to come." "So I guessed." Mallinsbee's answer was
sharp and dry. "And it's the most important of your talk," he added a moment
later. "What happened--out there?" Gordon's eyes took on a far-away expression
as he gazed out of the window. "I nearly killed David Slosson," he said simply.
Then he added, "I knew I'd have to do it before I'd finished." His gaze came
back to Mallinsbee's face. A fierce anger had made his blue eyes stern and cold.
Then he told the rancher of his finding Hazel struggling furiously in the man's
arms, and of her piteous cry for help, and all that followed. While he was still
talking the girl's father had leaped from his seat and began pacing the little
room like a caged wild beast. His cigar was forgotten, and every now and then he
paused abruptly as Gordon made some definite point. His eyes were darkly
furious, his nostrils quivered, his great hands clenched at his sides, and in
the end, when the story was told, he stood towering before the desk with a pair
of murderous eyes shining down upon the younger man. "God in heaven!" he cried
furiously; "and he's still alive?" Then he turned away abruptly. A revolver-belt
was hanging on the wall, and he moved towards it. But Gordon was on his feet in
a moment. "That gun's mine, and--you can't have it!" Gordon was standing in
front of the weapon, facing the furious eyes of the father. "Stand aside! I'm--
going to kill him--now." But Gordon made no movement. "No," he said, with a
stony calmness. It was a painful moment. It was a moment full of threat and
intense crisis. One false move on Gordon's part, and the maddened father's fury
would be turned on him. The younger man forced a smile to his eyes. "You once
said I could scrap, Mr. Mallinsbee. I promise you I scrapped as I never did
before. That man hasn't one whole feature in his face, and if the hangman's rope
had been drawn tight around his neck it couldn't have done very much more damage
than my fingers did. I tell you he's has his med'cine good and plenty. There's
no need for more--that way. But we're going to hurt him. We're going to hurt him
more by outing him from this deal of ours than ever by killing him. We're going
to stand at nothing now to--'out' him. Let's get our minds fixed that way. If
one plan don't succeed--another must." Standing there eye to eye Gordon won his
way. He saw with satisfaction the fire in the old man's eyes slowly die down.
Then he watched him reluctantly return to his chair. It was not until the
rancher had struck a match and relit his cigar that Gordon ventured to return to
his desk. "You're right, boy," Mallinsbee said at last. "You're right--and
you've done right. If the whole scheme busts we--can't help it. But--but we'll
out that--cur." The hall porter at the Carbhoy Building was perturbed. He was
more than perturbed. He was ruffled out of his blatant superiority and dignity,
and reduced to a condition when he could not state, with any degree of accuracy,
whether the Statue of Liberty was a symbol of Freedom or a mere piece of cheap
decoration for New York Harbor. The precincts of the beautiful colored marble
entrance hall over which he presided had been invaded, against all rules, by a
woman who obviously had no business there. Moreover, he had been powerless to
stay the invasion. Also he had been forced to submit out of a sheer sense of
politeness to the sex, a politeness it was not his habit to display even towards
his wife. Furthermore, like the veriest underling, instead of the autocrat he
really was, he had been ordered--_ordered_--to announce the lady's arrival to
Mr. James Carbhoy, and forthwith conduct her to that holy of holies, which no
other female, except the cleaner, had ever been permitted to enter. It was Mrs.
James Carbhoy who had caused the deplorable upheaval. But Mrs. James Carbhoy was
in no mood to parley with any hall porter, however gorgeous his livery. She was
in no mood to parley even with her husband. She was disturbed out of her
customary condition of passive acquiescence. She was heartbroken, too, and ready
to weep against any manly chest with which her head came into contact. It is
doubtful, even, if a Fifth Avenue policeman's chest would have been safe from
her attentions in that direction. And surely distress must certainly be
overwhelming that would not shrink from such support. James Carbhoy detected the
signs the moment his door was opened, and his wife tripped over the fringe of
the splendid Turkey carpet and precipitated herself into the great morocco arm-
chair nearest to her, waving a bunch of letter-paper violently in his direction.
"I've been to the Inquiry Bureau, and had a man detailed right away to go and
find the boy," she burst out at once. Then all her mother's anxiety merged into
an attack upon the man who silently rose from his desk and closed the door she
had left open. "I don't know what to say to you, James," she went on. "I can't
just think why I'm sitting right here in the presence of such a monster. Here
you've driven our boy from the house. Maybe you've driven him to his death, or
even worse, and I can't even get you to make an attempt to discover if he's
alive or--or dead. This letter came this morning," she went on, holding the
pages aloft, lest he should escape their reproach. "And if he hasn't gone and
married some hussy there, out in some uncivilized region, I don't know a thing.
S'pose he's married a half-breed or--or a squaw," she cried, her eyes rolling in
horror at the bare idea. "It--it'll be your fault--your doing. You're just a
cruel monster, and if it wasn't for our Gracie's sake I'd--I'd get a divorce.
You--you ought to be ashamed, James Carbhoy. You ought--ought to be in--in
prison, instead of sitting there grinning like some fool image." The millionaire
leaned back in his chair wearily. "Oh, read the letter, Mary. You make me
tired." "Tired? Letter, you call it," cried the excited woman. "I tell you it's
--it's a lot of gibberish that no sane son of ours ever wrote. Oh! you're as bad
as those men at the bureau. I made them read it, and--and they said he was a--
bright boy. Bright, indeed! You listen to this and you can judge for yourself--
if you've any sense at all." "DEAREST MUM:

"I haven't written you in weeks, which should tell you that I am quite up to the
average in my sense of filial duty. It should also tell you that I _hope_ I am
prospering both in health and in worldly matters. I say 'hope' because nothing
much seems certain in this world except the perfidy of human nature. It has been
said that disappointment is responsible for all the hope in the world, but I'd
like to say right here that that's just a sort of weak play on words which don't
do justice to the meanest intelligence. I am full of hope and haven't yet been
disappointed. Not even in my conviction that human nature has some good points,
but bad points predominate, which makes you feel you'd, generally speaking, like
to kick it plenty. "While I'm on the subject of human nature it would be wrong
not to discriminate between male and female human nature. Male can be dismissed
under one plain heading: 'Self'--a heading which embraces every unpleasant
feature in life, from extreme moral rectitude, with its various branches of
self-complacency, down to chewing tobacco, to me a symbol of all that is
criminally filthy in life. Female human nature comes under a similar heading,
only, in a woman's case, 'Self' is a combination of the two personalities, male
and female. You see, 'Self,' in female human nature, is not a complete
proposition in itself. Before it becomes complete there must be a man in the
case, even if he be a disgrace to his sex. I will explain. You couldn't
entertain any feeling or purpose without the old Dad coming into your focus. But
with man it's different. The only reason a woman comes into his life at all is
so that he can kick her out of it if she don't do just as he says and wants. I
guess this sounds better to me writing from here than maybe it will to you in
your parlor in New York. But it's easier to say things when you feel yourself
shorn of the artificialities of life. "This is merely preliminary, leading up to
two pieces of news I have to hand to you. The first is, I have discovered that
woman is the greatest proposition inspired by a creative Providence for the
delight of man, but in business, unless specially trained, she's liable to fall
even below the surface scum which includes the lesser grade of biped called
'man.' The second is that man, generally, is a pretty disgusting brute, and I
allow he deserves all he gets in life, even to lynching. Understand I am
speaking generally, as a looker-on, whose eyes are no longer blinded by the
glamour of wealth in a big city and the comforts of a luxurious home. "I feel
I've got to say right here that to me, apart from the foregoing observations,
woman is just the most wonderful thing in all this wonderful world. Her
perfections and graces are just sublime; her understanding of man is so
sympathetic that it don't seem to me she'd need more than two guesses to locate
how many dollars he'd got in his pocket or the quality of the brain oozing out
under his hat. "I guess her eyes are just the dandiest things ever. Furthermore,
when they happen to be hazel, they got a knack of boring holes right through
you, and chasing around and finding the smallest spark of decency that may
happen to be lying hidden in the general muck of a man's moral makeup. They do
more than that. I'd say there never was a man in this world who, under such
circumstances, happens to become aware of some such spark, but wants to start
right in and fan it into a big bonfire to burn up the refuse under which it's
been so long secreted. That's how he's bound to feel--anyway, at first. "A
woman's just every sort of thing a man needs around him. It don't seem a matter
for worry if the sun-spots became a complete rash and its old light went out
altogether. That feller would still see those wonderful eyes shining out of the
darkness, giving him all the light he needed in which to play foolish and think
himself all sorts of a man. "Guess when he'd worked overtime that way and sleep
set him dreaming he'd make pictures he couldn't paint in a year. There'd be
every sort of peaceful delight in 'em. There'd be lambs, and children without
clothes, and birds and flowers. And the lambs would bleat, and the children
sing, and the birds flutter, and the flowers smell, and all the world would be
full of joy. Then he'd wake up. Maybe it would be different then. You see, a man
awake figures his woman needs to look like the statue of Venus, be bursting with
the virtues of a first-class saint, and possess the economical inspiration of a
Chinee cook. "In pursuance of these discoveries of mine I feel that maybe I've
got a wrong focus of our Gracie. Maybe when she gets sense, and sort of finds
herself floating around in the divine beauties of womanhood, some escaped crank
may chase along and figure she possesses some of the wonderful charms I've been
talking about. Personally I wish our Gracie well, and am hoping for the best.
Still, I feel whatever trouble she has getting a husband I don't guess it'll end
there--the trouble, I mean. "To come to my second discovery, it has afforded me
some pleasant moments, as well as considerable disgust and anger. It may seem
difficult to associate these emotions without confusion. But were you to fully
understand the situation you would realize that they could be associated in one
harmonious whole. With anger coming first, you find yourself in a frenzied state
of elation, capable of achieving anything, from murder down to robbing the dead.
It is a splendid feeling, and saves one from the rust of good-natured
ineptitude. Then come the pleasant moments, which may find themselves in extreme
exertion and the general exercise of muscles, and even, in some cases--brains.
Disgust is the necessary mental attitude under reaction. This is how my
discovery affected me. But I fancy the object through which I made my second
discovery was probably affected otherwise. I can't just say offhand. Maybe I'll
learn later, and be able to tell you. "There is not a day passes but what I make
discoveries of a more or less interesting nature. For instance, I've learned
that there's nothing like three people hating one person to make for a bond of
friendship between them. I'd say it's far more binding than marriage vows at the
altar. This comes under the heading of 'more' interesting. Under the 'less'
comes such things as--the only time that impulsive action justifies itself is
when you're sure of winning out. I have given myself two examples of impulsive
action only to-day. The one in which I have won out seems to have ruined the
chances of the other. This is a confusion that doesn't seem to justify anything.
Still, a philosopher might be able to disentangle it. "I should be glad if you
would give the old Dad my best love, and tell him that the figures representing
one hundred thousand dollars grow in size with the advancing weeks. Nor can I
tell how big they will appear by the end of six months. If they grow in my view
at the present rate, by the end of six months it seems to me I'll need to walk
around looking through the wrong end of a telescope so as to get a place for my
feet anywhere on this continent. However, as 'disappointment' has not yet
appeared to create 'hope,' it is obvious that 'conviction' remains. "I regret
that time does not permit me to write more, so I will close. Any further news I
have to give you I will embody in another letter. "Your loving son,   "GORDON.
"P.S.--I have been thinking a great deal about Gracie lately, she being of the
female sex. Of course, I could not compare her with a real woman, but I feel,
with a little judicious broadening of her mind, say by travel or setting her out
to earn her living, she might develop in the right direction. It is a thought
worth pondering. Such a process might even have good results. "G."

Mrs. James Carbhoy's angry and disgusted eyes were raised from her reading to
confront her husband's amused smile. "Well?" she demanded. "Is it sunstroke, or
--or----?" "That inquiry agent was a smart feller," the millionaire interrupted.
"Gordon surely is a--bright boy." Mrs. Carbhoy's indignation leaped. And with
its leap came another. She fairly bounced out of the chair she had occupied and
hurled herself at the mahogany door of the office. "James Carbhoy, I shall see
to this matter myself. I always knew you were merely a money machine. Now I know
you have neither heart nor sense." She flung open the door. Again she tripped
over the fringe of the carpet, and, with a smothered ejaculation, flew headlong
in the direction of the hall porter's stately presence. CHAPTER XV

IN COUNCIL

There come days in a man's life which are not easily forgotten. Some poignant
incident indelibly fixes them upon memory, and they become landmarks in his
career. The next day became one of such in Gordon's life. It was just a little
extraordinary, too, that memory should have selected this particular day in
preference to the preceding one. The first of the two should undoubtedly have
been the more significant, for it partook of a nature which appealed directly to
those innermost hopes and yearnings of a youthful heart. Surely, before all
things in life, Nature claims to itself the passionate yearning of the sexes as
paramount. Gordon had fought for the woman he loved, and basked in her smiles of
approval at his victory. Was not this sufficient to make it a day of days? The
psychological fact remained, the indelible memory of the next day was planted on
the mysterious photographic plates of his mental camera in preference. It was a
day of wild excitement. It was a day of hopes raised to a fevered pitch, and
then hurled headlong to a bottomless abyss of despair. It was a day of
passionate feeling and bitter memories. A day of hopeless looking forward and of
depression. Then, as a last and final twist of the whirligig of emotion, it
resolved itself into one great burst of enthusiasm and hope. It started in at
the earliest hour. Hip-Lee was preparing breakfast, and Gordon was still
dressing. A note was brought from Peter McSwain. Gordon opened it, and the first
emotions of an eventful day began to take definite shape. The note informed him
that McSwain had been faithful to his promise. He, assisted by Mike Callahan of
the livery barn, had worked strenuously. The results had been splendid amongst
all the principal landholders in Snake's Fall and Buffalo Point. Prices this
morning were "skied" prohibitively. The holders saw their advantage. Even if the
railroad bought in Snake's Fall they would be "on velvet." They agreed that it
was the first sound move made. They agreed that it was good to "jolly" a
railroad. The men who did not hold in Buffalo only held insignificant property
in Snake's Fall, which would be useless to the railroad. But should the railroad
buy there, even these would be benefited. Gordon began to feel that palpitating
excitement in the stomach indicative of a disturbed nervous system. Things were
stirring. He examined the situation from the view point of yesterday's
encounter. With these people working in with him, the future certainty began to
look brighter than when he had retired to bed over-night. Mallinsbee came along
after breakfast, and Gordon showed him McSwain's message. The rancher read it
over twice. Then his opinion came in deep, rumbling notes. "That's sure what you
needed," he said, with a shrewd, twinkling smile. "But I don't guess the
shoutin's begun." "No?" Gordon eyed him uneasily. He had felt rather pleased.
"We can't shout till Slosson talks," the rancher went on. "That talk of Peter's
is still only our side of the play." "Yes." Gordon was at his desk. Then a
diversion was created by the advent of a fat stranger with a large expanse of
highly colored waistcoat, and a watchguard to match. He wanted to talk "sites,"
and spent half an hour doing so. When he had gone Mallinsbee offered an
explanation which had passed Gordon's inexperience by. "That feller's worried,"
he observed. "He's got wind there's something doing, and is scared to death the
speculators are to be shut out. He's going back to report to the boys. Maybe
we'll hear from Peter again--later. I wonder what Slosson's thinking?" Gordon
smiled. "I doubt if he can think yet," he said. "I allow he was upset yesterday.
I'd give a dollar to see him when he starts to try and buy." "You're feeling
sure." Mallinsbee's doubt was pretty evident. "Sure? I'm sure of nothing about
Slosson except his particular dislike of me, and, through me, of you." "Just so.
And when a man hates the way he hates you, if he's bright he'll try to make
things hum." "He's bright all right," allowed Gordon. A further diversion was
created. Two men arrived in a buckboard, and Mallinsbee's explanation was
verified. They were looking for information. It was said the railroad was to
boycott Buffalo Point. It was said, even, that they had bought in Snake's Fall.
Was this so? And, anyway, what was the meaning of the rise in prices at that
end? "Why, say," finished up one of the men, "when I was talking to Mason, the
dry goods man, this morning, he told me there wasn't a speculator around who'd
money enough to buy his spare holdings in Snake's. And when I asked him the
figger he said he needed ten thousand dollars for two side street plots and
twenty thousand for two avenue fronts. He's crazy, sure." Mallinsbee shook his
head. "Not crazy. Just bright." When the man had departed, and Mallinsbee had
removed the patch from his eye, he smiled over at Gordon. "Peter's surely done
his work," he said. Gordon warmed with enthusiasm. If those were the prices
ruling Mr. Slosson would have no option but to be squeezed between the two
interests. Whatever his personal feelings, he must make good with his company.
No agent, unless he were quite crazy, would dare face such prices for his
principals. "I don't see that Slosson's a leg to stand on," he cried, his
enthusiasm bubbling. "We've just got to sit around and wait." Mallinsbee agreed.
"Sure. Sit around and wait," he said, with that baffling smile of his. Gordon
shrugged, and bent over some figures he had been working on. Presently he looked
up. "How's Miss Hazel this morning?" he inquired casually. He had wanted to
speak of her before, but the memory of her father's anger yesterday had
restrained him. Now he felt he was safe. "Just sore over things," said the old
man, with a sobering of the eyes. "I talked to her some last night. She guesses
she owes you a heap, but it ain't nothing to what I owe you." Gordon flushed.
Then he laughed and shook his head. "No man or woman owes me a thing who gives
me the chance of a scrap," he said. The old man smiled. "No," he agreed. "With a
name like 'Van Henslaer'--you ain't Irish?" "Descendant of the old early Dutch."
"Ah. They were scrappers, too." Gordon nodded and went on with his figures. So
the morning passed. It was a waiting for developments which both men knew would
not long be delayed. Mallinsbee was unemotional, but Gordon was all on wires
drawn to great tension. The subtle warnings from Mallinsbee not to be too
optimistic had left him in a state of doubt. And an impatience took hold of him
which he found hard to restrain. The two men shared their midday meal.
Mallinsbee wanted to get back to the ranch, but neither felt such a course to be
policy yet. Besides, now that the crisis had arrived, Gordon was anxious to have
his superior's approval for his next move. He had taken a chance yesterday. Now
he wanted to make no mistake. The _denouement_ came within half an hour of Hip-
Lee's clearing of the table. It came with the sound of galloping hoofs, with the
rush of a horseman up to the veranda. The two men inside the office looked at
each other, and Gordon rose and dashed at the window. "It's McSwain," he said,
and returned to the haven of his seat behind his desk. His announcement had been
cool enough, but his heart was hammering against his ribs. "Then I guess things
are going queer," said the rancher pessimistically. Gordon was about to reply
when the door was abruptly thrust open, and the hot face and hotter eyes of
Peter appeared in the doorway. "Well?" For the life of him Gordon could not have
withheld that sharp, nervous inquiry. McSwain came right into the room and drew
the door closed after him. Quite suddenly his eyes began to smile in that
fashion which so expresses chagrin. He flung his hat on Gordon's desk and sat
himself on the corner of it. Then he deliberately drew a long breath. "I'm as
worried as a cat goin' to have kittens," he said. "That feller Slosson's beat
us. Maybe he's stark, starin' crazy, maybe he ain't. Anyways he came right along
to me this morning with a face like chewed up dogs' meat, with a limp on him
that 'ud ha' made the fortune of a tramp, and a mitt all doped up with a dry
goods store o' cotton-batten, and asked me the price of my holdings in Snake's.
I guessed I wasn't selling my hotel lot, but I'd two Main Street frontages that
were worth ten thousand dollars each, and a few other bits going at the waste
ground price of five thousand each." "Well?" This time it was Mallinsbee's
inquiry. "He closed the deal for his company, and planted the deposit." "He
closed the deal?" cried Gordon thickly, all his dreams of the future tumbling
about his ears. "Why, yes." McSwain regarded the younger man's hopelessly
staring eyes for one brief moment. Then he went on: "I was only the first. This
was after dinner. Say, in half an hour he's put his company in at Snake's to the
tune of nearly a quarter million dollars. He's mad. They'll fire him. They'll
repudiate the whole outfit. I tell you he never squealed at any old price. He's
beat our play here. But how do we stand up there? A crazy man comes along and
makes deals which no corporation in the world would stand for. There ain't a
site in Snake's worth more'n a hundred dollars to a railroad who's got to boom a
place. Well, if his corporation turns him down, how do we stand? Are they goin'
to pay? No, sir; not on your life." "They'll have to stand it," said Mallinsbee.
"They'll try and fight it," retorted Peter hotly. "And you can't graft the
courts like a railroad can," put in Gordon quickly. "They'll have to stand it,"
repeated Mallinsbee doggedly. "An' I'll tell you how. Maybe Slosson's crazy.
Maybe he's crazy to beat us, an' I allow he's not without reason for doin' it--
now. But it would cost the railroad a big pile to shift that depot here. It
would have been better for them in the end. You see, they'd have got their
holdings in the township here for pretty well nix, and so they wouldn't have
felt the cost of the depot. The city would have paid that, as well as other old
profits. Anyway, the capital would have had to be laid out. In Snake's they are
laying out capital in their holdings only. They'll get it back all right, all
right--and profits. Slosson's relying on making up their leeway for them in the
boom. He's takin' that chance, because he's crazy to beat--us." "And he's done
it," said Gordon sharply. "Yep. He's done it," muttered McSwain regretfully. "He
surely has," agreed Mallinsbee, without emotion. Gordon was the only one of the
trio who appeared to be depressed. McSwain had the consolation of getting his
profit in Snake's Fall. The only sense in which he was a loser was that his
holdings in Buffalo Point were larger than in the other place. Therefore he was
able to regard the matter more calmly, in the light of the fortunes of war.
Mallinsbee, who had staked all his hopes on Buffalo Point, seemed utterly
unaffected. A few minutes later McSwain hurried away for the purpose of watching
further developments, promising to return in the evening and report. Neither he
nor Gordon felt that there was the least hope whatever. Mallinsbee offered no
opinion. When Peter had ridden off, and the two men were left alone, Gordon,
weighed down with his failure, began to give expression to his feelings. He
looked over at the strong face of his benefactor, and took his courage in both
hands. "Mr. Mallinsbee," he said diffidently, "I want to tell you something of
what I feel at the way things have gone through--my failure. I----"

Mallinsbee had thrust his fingers into his waistcoat pocket, and now drew forth
a cigar. "Say, have a smoke, boy," he said, in his blunt, kindly fashion.
"That's a dollar an' a half smoke," he went on, "an' I brought two of 'em over
from the ranch to celebrate on. Guess we best celebrate right now." It was a
doleful smile which looked back at the rancher as Gordon accepted the proffered
cigar. "But I----"

"Say, don't bite the end off," interrupted Mallinsbee. "Here's a piercer."
"Thanks. But you must let----"

"I'll be mighty glad to have a light," the other went on hastily. Gordon was
thus forced to silence, and Mallinsbee continued. "Say, boy," he said, as he
settled himself comfortably to enjoy his expensive cigar, "a business life is
just the only thing better than ranching, I'm beginning to guess. You got to
figure on things this way: ranching you got so many hands around, so much
grazin', so many cattle. Your only enemy is disease. So many head of cows will
produce so many calves, and Nature does the rest. That's ranching in a kind of
outline which sort of reduces it to a question of figures which it wouldn't need
a trick reckoner to work out. Now business is diff'rent. Ther's always the other
feller, and you 'most always feel he's brighter than you. But he ain't. He's
just figurin' the same way at his end of the deal. So, you see, the real
principles of commerce aren't dependent on the things you got and Nature, same
as ranching. Your assets ain't worth the paper they're written on--till you've
got your man where you want him. Now, to do that you got to ferget you ever were
born honest. You've just got one object in life, and that is to get the other
feller where you want him. It don't matter how you do it, short of murder. If
you succeed, folks'll shout an' say what a bright boy you are. If you fail
they'll say you're a mutt. The whole thing's a play there ain't no rules to
except those the p'lice handle, and even they don't count when your assets are
plenty. You'll hear folks shouting at revival meetings, an' psalm-smitin' around
their city churches. You'll hear them brag honesty an' righteousness till you
feel you're a worse sinner than ever was found in the Bible. You'll have 'em
come an' look you in the eye and swear to truth, and every other old play
invented to allay suspicions. And all the time it's a great big bluff for them
to get you where _they_ want you. An' that's why the game's worth playing--even
when you're beat. If business was dead straight; if you could stake your all on
a man's word; if ther' weren't a man who would take graft; if you didn't know
the other feller was yearning to handle your wad--why, the game wouldn't be a
circumstance to ranching." "That sounds pretty cynical," protested Gordon. He,
too, was smoking, but the failure of his scheme left him unsmiling. "It's the
truth. We were trying to get Slosson where we wanted him. He's doing the same by
us. So far he seems to monopolize most of the advantage. The question remaining
to us now--and it's the only one of interest from our end of the line--is: Will
the President of the Union Grayling and Ukataw Railroad do as I think he will--
back his agent's play? Will he stand for his crazy buying? Will he fall for
Slosson's game to get us where he wants us? I believe he will, but we can't be
dead certain. Our only chance is to try and make it so he won't--even if the
Snake's boys lose their stuff up there." Gordon was sitting up. His cigar was
removed from the corner of his mouth and held poised over an ash-tray. There was
a sharp look of inquiry in his eyes. "What's the President of the Union Grayling
and Ukataw Railroad got to do with it?" he demanded quickly. The rancher raised
his heavy brows. "This is a branch of his road, I guess." "A--a branch?"
Gordon's breath was coming rapidly. "Sure. You see, it's a branch linking up
with the Southern Trunk route. It runs into the Grayling line where it enters
the Rockies. That's how you make the coast this way." "And this--is part of the
Union Grayling system?" Gordon persisted, his blue eyes getting bigger and
bigger with excitement. "Sure," nodded Mallinsbee, watching him closely. Then
the explosion came. Gordon could contain himself no longer. He flung his newly
lit dollar-and-a-half cigar on the floor with all the force of pent feelings and
leaped to his feet. "Great Scott!" he cried. "The President of that road is my
father!" "Eh?" Then, without another sign, Mallinsbee pointed reproachfully at
the fallen cigar. "It cost a dollar an' a ha'f, boy." But Gordon was beside
himself with excitement. A great flash of light and hope was shining through his
recent mental darkness. It didn't matter to him at that moment if the cigar had
cost a thousand dollars. "But--but don't you understand?" he almost yelled. "The
President of the Union Grayling and Ukataw is my--father." "James Carbhoy."
"Yes, yes. My name's Gordon Van Henslaer Carbhoy." Then quite suddenly Gordon
sat down and began to laugh. Then he stooped and picked up his cigar. He was
still laughing, while he carefully wiped the dust from the cigar's moistened
end. "James Carbhoy's your--father?" Mallinsbee was no longer disturbed at the
waste of the cigar. All his attention was fixed on that laughing face in front
of him. Gordon nodded delightedly, while he once more thrust his cigar into the
corner of his mouth. "You're thinkin' something?" Mallinsbee was becoming
infected by the other's manner. "Sure I am." Gordon nodded. "I'm thinking a
heap. Say, the fight has shifted its battle-ground. It's only just going to
begin. Gee, if I'd only thought of it before! The Union Grayling and Ukataw!
It's fate. Say, it isn't Slosson any longer. It's son and father. I've got to
scrap the old dad. Gee! It's colossal. Say, can you beat it? I've got to make my
little pile out of my old dad. And--he sent me out to make it and show him what
I could do." "But how? I don't just see----"

"How? How?" Gordon's laughing eyes sobered. He suddenly realized that he had
only considered the humorous side of the position. His brain began to work at
express speed. How was he to turn this thing to account? How? Yes--how?
Mallinsbee watched him for many silent minutes. And during those minutes scheme
after scheme, each one more wild than its predecessor, flashed through Gordon's
brain. None of them suggested any sane possibility. He knew he was up against
one of the most brilliant financiers of the country, who, in a matter like this,
would regard his own son simply as "the other feller." He must trick him. But
how? How? For a long time, in spite of his excited delight, Gordon saw no
glamour of a hope of dealing successfully with his father. Then all in a flash
he remembered something. He remembered he still had his father's private code
book with him. He remembered Slosson. If Slosson could only be--silenced. In a
moment he was on his feet again. "I've got it!" he cried exultantly. "I've got
it, Mr. Mallinsbee! You said that it didn't matter, short of murder, how we got
the other feller where we needed him. Will you come in on the wildest, most
crazy scheme you ever heard of? We can beat the game, and we'll take money for
nothing. We can make my dad build the depot right here and scrap Snake's Fall.
We can make him--and without any murder. Will you come in?" "In what?" demanded
a girlish voice from the veranda doorway. Gordon swung round, and Mallinsbee
turned his smiling, twinkling eyes upon his daughter, who had arrived all
unnoticed. "It's a scheme he's got to beat his father, gal," laughed Mallinsbee
in a deep-throated chuckle. "His father?" Hazel turned her smiling, inquiring
eyes upon the man who had rescued her yesterday. "Yes, James Carbhoy," said her
father, "the President of this railroad." Hazel's eyes widened, and their smile
died out. "Your father--the--millionaire--James Carbhoy?" she said. And her note
of regret must have been plain to anybody less excited than Gordon. But Gordon
was beyond all observation of such subtle inflections. He was obsessed with his
wild scheme. He started forward. Walking past Hazel, he closed and locked the
door. Then with alert eyes he glanced at the window. It was open. He shut it and
secured it. Then he set a chair for Hazel close beside her father, and finally
brought his own chair round and sat himself down facing them. "Listen to me, and
I'll tell you," he grinned, his whole body throbbing with a joyous humor. "We're
going to get the other feller where we need him, and that other feller is my--
dear--old--Dad!" CHAPTER XVI

SOMETHING DOING

During the next two or three days the entire atmosphere of Snake's Fall
underwent a significant change. All doubt had been set at rest. The whole
problem of the future boom was solved, and David Slosson received as much homage
in the conversation of the general run of the citizens as though he were the
victorious general in a military campaign. The lesser people, who would receive
the most benefit from the coming boom, regarded him with wide-eyed wonder at the
stupendous nature of the wildly exaggerated reports of his dealings in land.
They saw in him a Napoleon of finance, and remembered that their concerns were
vastly more valuable through his operations. Men of maturer business instincts
withheld their judgment and contented themselves with a rather dazed wonder.
Others, those who had actually and already profited by his preliminary deals,
chuckled softly to themselves, rubbed their hands gently, pocketed his paper and
deposit money, and wrote him down "plumb crazy." But even so, there was a sober
watchfulness as to the next movements in the approaching boom. Those who were
the farthest seeing kept an eye wide open on Buffalo Point. So far as they could
see it was not possible for the Buffalo Point interests to go under without a
"kick." When would that "kick" come, and where would it be delivered? As for
David Slosson, after his first effort, which had been the deciding factor in the
future of Snake's Fall, he remained unapproachable. He was living at Peter
McSwain's hotel, and occupied a bedroom and parlor, which latter served him as
an office. Here he remained more or less invisible, possibly while his
disfigured features underwent the process of mending, possibly nursing his wrath
and plotting developments against the object of it. There was even another
possible explanation. Maybe the plunge into the land market he had taken needed
a great concentration of effort to completely manipulate it. Whatever it was,
very little of the railroad company's agent was seen after his first setting
defiant foot into the arena of affairs. McSwain was more than interested. The
hotel-keeper seemed to have become obsessed with the idea that David Slosson was
the only creature worth regarding on the face of the earth. This was after he,
Peter, had spent the evening of that memorable first day of real movement, in
the company of Silas Mallinsbee and Gordon, out at the office at Buffalo Point.
Peter McSwain had always been an attentive landlord in his business, now he had
suddenly become even more so, especially to David Slosson. There was not a
single requirement that the agent could conceive, but Peter was on hand to
supply it. He was more or less at his elbow the whole time. Then, too, Mike
Callahan became a frequenter of the hotel, and even boarded there. Furthermore,
a wonderful friendliness between him and Peter sprang up, which was so marked
that the townspeople saw in it a combination of forces possibly foreshadowing
the inauguration of a great hotel enterprise under their joint control. This
also was after that first evening, when Mike Callahan had also formed one of the
party at the office at Buffalo Point. Another point of interest, had it been
noticeable by the more curious and interested of the frequenters of the hotel,
was, that at any time that Peter McSwain found it necessary to absent himself
from the hotel, Mike was always found in his place superintending the running of
the establishment. However, these small details were merely an added puff of
wind to the breath of general excitement prevailing. The one thought in the
place seemed to be of those preparations necessary for the boom. Already certain
contracts, long since prepared for such a happening, were put into operation. A
number of buildings were started, or prepared to start. The news had been sent
broadcast by interested citizens, and a fresh influx of people began and heavy
orders from the various traders were placed with the wholesalers in the East.
David Slosson in his quarters was made aware of these things, but somehow they
raised small enough enthusiasm in him. Truth to tell, he was far too deeply
concerned with the subtleties of his own affairs. His course of action had not
been the wild plunge which Peter McSwain had suggested. On the contrary, such
was his venomous nature that he had pitted his own abilities and fortune against
the Buffalo Point interests in a carefully calculated scheme. For years he had
been engaged in every corner of the United States and Canada in such work as he
was now doing. In the process of such work, by methods of unscrupulous grafting
and blackmail he had contrived a fortune of no inconsiderable amount. So that
now he was no ordinary agent. He was a "representative" of the interests he
worked for. In his case the distinction was a nice one. As the result of his
encounter with Gordon he had resolved upon the crushing defeat of his
adversaries by hurling the entire weight of his personal fortune into the scale.
True enough he had bought without regard to price. He bought all he could in the
best positions, and even in the quarters which would not meet with the
railroad's approval. So his purchases had to be far greater, both in extent and
price, than in the ordinary way he would have made at Buffalo Point. Having thus
bought, and thrown his own money into the affair, this was his plan of dealing
with the matter. First, he knew this boom was based on sound foundations. The
future was assured by the vast coal-fields just opening up. The Bude and Sideley
Coal Company was only the first. There would be others, many of them. With the
railroad depot at Snake's Fall, the whole of the outlying positions of the city
would boom with the rest. _Any land round it would be of enormous value_. So he
purchased in every direction. He bought at "skied" prices from the big holders,
so that the railroad should be satisfied as to positions, and he bought largely
in the outlying parts of the city where no "skied" prices could rule. Then he
pooled the price which he knew the railroad would pay, with his own fortune to
pay the whole bill, put the railroad in _on the best sites at their own price_,
and held the balance of his purchases for himself. It was his only means of
justifying to his principals his declining to accept Buffalo Point's terms, and
though it meant locking up his available capital in Snake's Fall, he knew, in
the end, he would recoup himself with added fortune, and have wrecked those who
had rejected his blackmail, and added to their audacity by personal assault. It
pleased him to think that Hazel Mallinsbee would also be made to suffer for what
he considered her outrageous treatment of himself. His method was certainly
Napoleonic, and for its very audacity it should succeed. As he reviewed his
position he could find no appreciable flaws. If the coal were there the place
must boom, and--_he knew the coal was there_. So he was satisfied. Five days
after making his first deal, those deals which had inspired so much derision,
his whole operations were completed. He was feeling contented. It had been a
strenuous time, and had demanded every ounce of energy and commercial acumen he
possessed to complete the work. He knew that his whole future was at stake, but
he also knew that he held the four aces which would be the finally deciding
factors in the game. He felt free at last to notify the President of the Union
Grayling and Ukataw Railroad of his transactions, and was confident of that
shrewd financier's approval and felicitations. Nor were the latter the least
desirable in his estimation. He had already dined in his parlor, as had been his
custom since his encounter with Gordon. But now he intended to move abroad. He
felt himself to be the arbiter of the fate of these "rubes," as he characterized
the citizens of Snake's Fall, and he did not see the necessity for denying
himself the adulation such a position entitled him to. With a self-satisfied
feeling he picked up a long code message he had written out and thrust it in his
pocket. Then, carefully putting away all other private papers into his dressing-
case, and locking it, he sauntered leisurely out of his room. He intended to
give himself his first breathing space for five days, and he lounged downstairs
to the hotel office. Sure enough, the first person he encountered was Peter
McSwain. The man looked hot, but then he always looked hot. His smile of welcome
was almost servile, and David Slosson felt pleased at the sign. The consequence
was, his manner promptly became something more than autocratic. There was a
domineering note in his voice, and a cool insolence in his regard of his host.
Peter remained quite undisturbed. His mind went back to the scene in the office
at Buffalo Point on the eventful first evening, and an even greater servility
beamed out of his hot eyes. "Yes, sir," he cried, in answer to Slosson's inquiry
as to the movements in the town. "Movements? Why, I'd sure say you've set this
place jumping as though you'd opened up an earthquake under it. I tell you
frankly, Mr. Slosson, sir, we been waitin' days and days with our eyes on you
for a lead. I don't guess it means a thing to a gentleman like you, but if you'd
been a sort o' cock angel right down from the clouds on an aeroplane you
couldn't ha' been blessed more'n the folks right here have been blessin' your
name these last days, since you outed that bum outfit down at Buffalo Point."
"They're a pretty rotten crowd," agreed Slosson, well enough pleased. "Though I
say it, it takes a man of experience to handle a crowd like that. They're sheer
blackmailers, but I don't stand for a thing like that. You see, our play is to
serve the public right. Well, seeing Snake's Fall is a straight proposition I
guess I had to treat 'em right. I figure I put a heap of dollars in the way of
Snake's Fall. You won't do so bad yourself?" Peter smiled amiably. "I can't
kick." "Kick?" Slosson's eyes widened. "Guess you ought to get right on your
knees, and thank--me." Then he laughed. "Say, maybe you'll start putting up a--
real hotel." His contempt was marked as he let his glance wander over his simple
and primitive surroundings. Peter took no sort of umbrage. "Well, that was how I
was figurin'. Y'see I got to be first in that line. Since you downed
Mallinsbee's crowd of crooks, why, it's going to make things easy. Say, you
don't figure to sink dollars that way yourself? Maybe you could get right in on
the ground floor." His cordial tone pleased the agent, but he pretended to
consider the matter too small for his participation. "I'd need a big holding,"
he laughed. "I ain't time for one-hossed shows. Still, I thank you for the
offer. Guess the Mallinsbee crowd are kicking 'emselves to death. What?" Peter
nodded impressively, and drew closer in his confidence. "Kickin'? That don't
describe it. They deserve it, too. They kep' us dancing around guessin' with
their patch of grazin'. Say, this town owes you a big heap, an' I'm glad.
There's one thing owin' a real smart gent like you, Mr. Slosson, sir, an' quite
another owin' a crowd of crooks like Mallinsbee's. This town ain't likely to
forget. There's things like testimonials around, sir," he added, winking
significantly, "and when a city's making a big pile through a man, testimonials
are like to take on a mighty handsome shape." Slosson grinned. "I shouldn't
discourage 'em," he said pleasantly. "The folks 'll see where they are in a few
days. Here." He pulled out his long cypher message from his pocket, and held it
out towards Peter triumphantly. "You can read it if you like. You won't be able
to get its meaning, but I'll tell you what it is. It's to tell my company to go
right ahead. They're in. That means that Snake's Fall is made, sir, completely
and finally made, and the Mallinsbee ground sharks are plumb down and out. And
I'm glad to say I've been the means of fixing things that way for you." Peter
took the message. He took it rather quickly--almost too quickly. He read it. The
words were so much gibberish to him, and it was far too long to remember. But
with a quick effort he took in the one word of address, and the first six words
of the message. Then he handed it back. "Do you need that sent off, sir?" he
inquired easily, but his heart was beating quickly. Slosson shook his head.
"Guess I'll send it myself. I'm going across to the depot right now." He folded
up the paper. "That's the sentence on the Buffalo Point crooks, and its
execution will follow--quick." "An' serve 'em darned right," cried Peter
sharply. "I ain't time for crooks like them. You're right, sir. Don't take
chances. See that sent off yourself, sir. I'm real glad you come along here.
There'll be fortunes lying around in your track, an' then there's always them--
testimonials. Say, you'll just excuse me, sir, but there's some all-fired
'rubes' shoutin' for drinks in the bar. I----"

Slosson laughed. "Yes, you get right on. The boys have money to burn in this
city now. They'll have more later. I'll get going." He moved off and passed
through the crowded office, and out of the hotel, while Peter dashed swiftly
into his private office. He went straight to his desk and wrote on paper all he
could remember of the code message. Then he stood up and swore softly to
himself. For some moments he let himself go at the expense of the man he had
just been talking to. Then he became calmer, and his face grew thoughtful. Then,
after awhile, a smile grew in his hot eyes, and he murmured audibly--

"I wonder. Steve Mason's a good boy, an' he don't draw a big pile slamming the
keys of his instruments over there. I wonder." After that he left the office and
hurried out to the veranda, and stood watching, in the evening light, for the
figure of David Slosson leaving the telegraph operator's office. Gordon and
Hazel Mallinsbee were riding amongst the hills. Gordon was on Sunset, and
Hazel's brown mare was reveling in the joy of a fresh morning gallop through her
native valleys and woodlands. Ever since the memorable day when he discovered
that Slosson was his father's agent, Gordon had lived in a state of almost
feverish delight. At his instigation they had closed up the office at Buffalo
Point, to give color to their defeat by the agent. At his instigation they had
arranged many other more or less significant matters. But it had been
Mallinsbee's own suggestion that Gordon should take up his abode at the ranch
instead of sharing the hospitality of Mike Callahan's livery barn in Snake's
Fall. It was a glorious summer day and the mountain breezes came down the
hillsides with that refreshing cool belonging to the heights above. The joy of
living was thrilling both of them as they rode, and their horses, too, seemed to
have caught the infection. But there was something more than the mere joy of
life and health actuating them now. There was an excitement such as neither
could have experienced during those long, dull hours which, during the past
weeks, had been spent in the now closed office at Buffalo Point. They raced
along down a wide green valley lined upon either side by wood-clad slopes of
hills, which mounted up towards the blue for several hundreds of feet. Ahead of
them shone the white ramparts of the mountain range. They scintillated in the
sunlight, a shimmering wall of snow and ice many thousands of feet high. Before
them lay miles and miles of broken hills, rising higher and higher as they
approached the ultimate barrier of the Rockies themselves. The riders were in a
perfect maze of valleys, and woods, and mountain streams, and hills; a maze from
which it seemed well-nigh impossible to disentangle themselves. Yet, with her
trained eyes, and wonderful inborn knowledge of hill-craft, Hazel piloted their
course without hesitation, without question. The whole region was an open book
to her in the summer time. For miles and miles through that broken land she knew
every headland, every shadowy wood, every green valley and gurgling stream. As
she often told Gordon, it was her world--her home and her world, it belonged to
her. "But I should lose myself in five minutes," Gordon protested, as they swung
out of the valley and into a narrow cutting between two sheer-faced cliffs,
overgrown with scrub and small bush, which left hardly any room for their horses
along the banks of a trickling brook which divided them. "Surely you would,"
Hazel, who was now in the lead, called back over her shoulder. "And I guess I
should just as soon lose my way in your wonderful New York. You follow right
along, and I'll promise to bring you home by supper." Then, with laughing
anxiety, "But for goodness' sake don't lose our lunch out of your saddle bags.
We'll be starving after another hour of this." The warning startled Gordon into
an apprehensive survey of his saddle bags. They were quite secure, however, and
he followed closely on the mare's heels. Quickly it became apparent that they
were traveling a well-worn cattle path overgrown by the low scrub. It was
difficult, but Hazel followed it unfalteringly. Half a mile up this narrow, the
great facets of the hills on either side began to close in on them, and still
further ahead Gordon discovered that they almost met overhead, the narrowest
possible crack alone dividing them. He was wondering in which direction lay
their way out of such a hopeless cul-de-sac when he saw Hazel suddenly bend her
body low over her mare's neck, and, at the same moment, she called back a
warning to him. "'Ware overhead rocks!" she cried. Gordon instantly followed her
example, and kept close behind her as she entered a passage which was
practically a tunnel. Now their difficulties were increased tenfold. The tunnel,
in spite of the narrow split in its roof, was almost dark. The low bush
completely hid the track and the little tumbling creek beside the path had
deepened to a six-foot cut bank. Gordon became troubled. But it was not for
himself so much as for Hazel. His horse, Sunset, was steady as a rock, but the
brown mare ahead was as timid as a kitten. He glanced anxiously at the figure of
the girl. The journey seemed not to trouble her one bit. Her mare, too,
considering her timidity, was wonderfully steady. No doubt it was the result of
perfect confidence in the clever little creature on her back, he thought. His
gaze passed still further ahead. He was looking for the termination of this
mysterious winding tunnel. But twenty yards was the limit of his vision and, so
far, no end was in sight. Suddenly Hazel's merry laugh came echoing back to him.
"Say, isn't this a great place?" she cried. "It's like one of those enchanted
lands you read of in fairy books." Then she added a further warning. "Keep low.
We're nearly through." The horses scrambled on in the semi-darkness. But for
Gordon the enchantment of the place was passing, and he was glad to know they
were nearly through. A few minutes later he saw Hazel begin to straighten
herself up in the saddle. He followed her example with some caution and
considerable relief. The roof was becoming higher, so, too, was the light
increasing. Gordon breathed a sigh. "I don't know about the lunch," he said.
"I've bumped the walls for some considerable time. Is there much more of it?"
But before Hazel's reply could reach him his inquiry was answered by the cavern
itself. All in an instant they rounded a bend and a dazzling beam of sunlight
banished the darkness and nearly blinded him. Two minutes later he pushed his
way through a dense screen of willows, and emerged upon the bank of a beautiful,
serene lake of absolutely transparent, sunlit water. "Behold the spring which is
the source of that little stream," cried Hazel, indicating the lake spread out
before them. "Isn't it a fairy-book picture? Look round you. Oh, say, I just
love it to death." Gordon gazed about him in wonder. The lake was quite small,
but its setting was as beautiful as any artist could have painted it. All around
it, on two-thirds of its circumference, a hundred different shades of green
illumined the wonderful tangled vegetation. He looked for the place from which
they had emerged. It was completely hidden. Gone, vanished as if by magic. All
that remained were the great hills at the back and the wooded banks of the lake
at their feet. He looked down at the water. Clear, clear; it was clear as
crystal. Then he turned towards the sun, and something of the wonder of it all
thrilled him. A sea, a calm, unruffled sea of the greenest grass he had ever
beheld stretched out before him. Or was it a broad river of grass? Yes, it was a
wide river, perhaps two miles wide, with great mountainous banks on either side.
To him they seemed to be standing at its source, and its flow carried his gaze
away on towards the west, where, above all, miles and miles away, shone the
white peaks of the mountains. The banks of this superb valley were deeply wooded
from the base to the soaring summits. Only were the hues of the foliage varied.
Right at the foot the green was bright, but less bright than the tall sweet
grass. While higher, the dark foliage of pine woods rose somberly on stately
towering blackened trunks. At last Gordon turned back to the girl, who had sat
watching the intent expression of his face. "Tell me," he said, and he made a
comprehensive gesture with one hand. Hazel was waiting only for that sign.
[Illustration: Hazel Was Waiting for That Sign]

"Where we stand now we are twenty miles from the ranch," she said. "The only
other outlet to this valley is twenty miles further on to the west. If you could
not find our secret passage again, you would have to travel sixty miles through
the most amazing country to get back home." "Sixty miles back?" Gordon muttered.
"Sure," returned Hazel. Then she laughed. "Even then, unless you'd been pretty
well born in these hills you'd never find the way." Gordon nodded, and glanced
in the direction whence they had come. There was not a sign of the tunnel to be
seen. The foliage screen looked impenetrable. He began to smile. "And your
cattle station?" he questioned. "Come on." Hazel turned her mare away, and set
off at a brisk canter. She followed the line of the hills at the edge of the
wide plain of sweet grass. Gordon followed her, marveling at the place, but more
still at his guide. A quarter of an hour's gallop under the shade of the most
amazingly beautiful woods he ever remembered to have seen, brought them to a
clearing, in the midst of which stood a smallish frame house. It was more or
less surrounded by a number of large, heavy-timbered corrals. The whole place
was perfectly hidden by the screen of woods from view of the valley beyond.
Hazel leaped out of the saddle and passed hurriedly into the house. Next minute
she returned with two picket ropes. "We'll picket them both while we eat and get
a peek around the place. We aren't yearning for a twenty-mile tramp back."
Gordon agreed. He remained silent while they off-saddled and secured their
horses beyond the woods on the open grass. He was thinking hard. He was
reviewing the purpose which had brought them to this wonderful outworld hiding-
place. Nor were his thoughts wholly free from doubts and qualms. At length the
work was done. Their saddle blankets were laid out to dry in the sun, and the
saddle bags were emptied of the ample lunch Hazel had carefully provided. The
girl was entirely mistress of the situation. Gordon felt his helplessness out
here in the secret heart of nature. "Shall we eat first or----?" Hazel broke off
questioningly. "Can't we look around the house while the kettle boils?" inquired
Gordon, looking up from the fire he had kindled after some difficulty. He was
kneeling on the bare, dusty ground which had been trodden by the hoofs of
thousands of cattle in the past. The girl nodded. Her delight in being this
man's cicerone was superlative. This was different from the days she had spent
with David Slosson. "Sure. Come on," she cried. "And there's a well out back
where we can fill the kettle." They hurried off to the well, and, between them,
rather like two children, they filled the kettle. Then they returned and placed
it on the fire, and again approached the house. It was a squat, roomy structure
of the ordinary frame type, but it was in perfect preservation even to its
paint, and Hazel pointed this out as they approached. "You see this was my
daddy's first home," she said. "It's where I was born." She drew a deep, happy
sigh. "I seem to remember every stick of it. And my daddy, why, he just loves
it, too. That's why, though we don't use it now, he has it painted every year,
and kept clean. You see, when my daddy built this for my momma he hadn't a pile
of dollars. It was just all he could afford, and he didn't ever guess he'd have
a great deal to spend on a home. We lived here years, and our cattle grazed out
in the valley beyond. I used to spend my whole time on the back of a small
broncho mare, chasing up and down the hills and woods. And that's how I found
that tunnel we came through. My, but I do love this little place!" "It's great,"
agreed Gordon warmly. "I'd call it a--a poet's home." The girl flung open the
front door and led the way in. Instantly Gordon had the surprise of his life. It
was furnished. Completely and comfortably furnished. What was more, the
furniture, though old, was in perfect repair, and the room looked as though it
had been recently occupied. "When you said 'disused,'" Gordon exclaimed, "I--I--
thought it would be empty." The girl smiled a little sadly. "No," she said. "We
couldn't forsake it. It would be like forgetting my poor momma. No. The
furniture and things are just as we used them when she was with us." She passed
from the parlor to the bedrooms, and the lean-to kitchen and washhouse.
Everything was in perfect order, except for a slight dust which had gathered.
"You see, Hip-Lee and one of the choremen and I can fix it up in a day ready for
occupation. That's how my daddy likes to have it. My daddy loved our lovely
momma. I don't guess he'll ever get over losing her." Then she looked up, and
her shadow of sadness had gone. "Come along," she cried. "You've seen it all. So
we'll just shut it up again, and get back to our camp. I'm guessing that
kettle'll be boiled dry." But the kettle was only just on the boil, and the girl
made the tea while Gordon set out the food and plates. Then, when all was ready,
they sat down to their _tete-a-tete_ picnic with all the enjoyment of two
children, but with that between them which seemed to fill the whole air of the
valley with an intoxicating sense of happiness and delight. "And what about that
other place--that log and adobe shack you told me of?" demanded Gordon, taking
his tea-cup from the girl's hand. Hazel laughed. "That's a dandy shack, full of
ants and crawly things, and its roof leaks water. It's up on a hill where the
wind just blows pneumonia through it. If I showed it you I sort of reckon you'd
be scared to use it for--for anything." Gordon joined in her laugh. "I guess
it'll be the real thing for my job. Say, don't you sort of feel like a criminal?
I do." He laughed again as he passed the plate of cut meats to his companion.
"Criminals?" laughed Hazel buoyantly. "Why, I just feel as if you and my daddy
and I were all hanging by the neck on the highest peak of the Rockies. Say,
you're sure--sure of things?" "I guess there's nothing sure in this world,
except that no saint was ever a financial genius. Sure? Say, how can we be sure
till we've fixed things the way we want 'em? But I tell you we've got to make
good. I won't believe we can fail. We mustn't fail. If only Peter can get hold
of Slosson's messages. Only one will do. If he can do that, and it's what I
expect, why--the whole thing becomes just a practical joke, only not so
harmful." Gordon attacked his food with a healthy appetite, and the girl watched
him happily. "It's the cleverest thing ever," she cried, "and--and I can't think
how you thought of it, and, having thought of it--dared to attempt to carry it
out." Gordon smiled. "I'm not clever, but--I did think of it, didn't I? And as
to carrying it out, why, I guess we're the same as the others. We're 'sharps.'
We're land pirates. We're ground sharks." Hazel set her cup down. "But you are
clever. I didn't mean it that way." "You're the first person ever told me." "Am
I?" Hazel blushed. Nor did she know why. Gordon, watching her, sat entranced.
"Sure. Most everybody reckons I'm just a--a bit of an athlete--that's all. My
sister Gracie never gets tired of telling me what an all-sorts-of-fool I am."
"How old is your--Gracie?" "Thirteen." "That makes a diff'rence." "Oh, she
doesn't get it all her own way," laughed Gordon. "I hide her chocolates. That
makes her mad. She's a passion for candy. But the old dad is a bully feller.
He's all sorts of a sportsman, and he guesses that the best day in his life will
be the one in which he finds I'm not a fool." Hazel gurgled merrily. "That'll
come along soon." Gordon nodded. "Gee! It makes me laugh to think of it. But
say," he went on, a moment later, "I'm glad you don't think me a fool. I'm just
longing for----"  But he broke off and abruptly rose from the ground. Their meal
was finished. "Do we wash things or do we just pack 'em up?" "Oh, we'll pack
'em," said Hazel, rising hastily. A sort of nervous hurry was in her movement.
"We won't rob the choreman and Hip-Lee of their rights. Say, you bring up the
horses, and I'll pack. We can water them at the lake as we pass out--the horses,
I mean." A few minutes later Gordon returned with the horses. As he rounded the
bend in the now overgrown track, which had once formed the main approach to the
little ranch, and caught sight of the graceful fawn-clad figure moving about, he
stood for a moment to feast his eyes upon the picture the girl made. She was all
he had ever dreamed of in life. There was nothing of the delicate exotic here,
none of the graceful gowning of a city, concealing an unhealthy body reduced
almost to infirmity by the unwholesome night life of modern social demands. She
was just a living example of the grace with which Nature so readily endows those
who obey her wonderful, helpful laws. The perfect contours, the elasticity of
gait, the clear, keen, beautiful eyes, and the pretty tanning under the shade of
her wide-brimmed hat. The beating of the man's heart quickened. All his feelings
rose, and set him longing to tell her all that was in his heart. He wanted then
and there to become her champion for all time. A great passionate wave set the
warm blood of youth surging to his head. He felt that she belonged to him, and
him alone. Had he not fought for her as those warriors of old would have done?
Yes, somehow he felt that she was his, but, with a strange cowardice, he feared
to put his fate to the test through words which could never express half of all
he felt. He longed and feared, and he told himself----

But Hazel was looking in his direction. She saw him standing there, and
peremptorily summoned him to her presence. "For goodness' sake," she cried.
"Dreaming when there's work to be done. Bring them right along, or we'll never
get started. There's all twenty miles before supper." Gordon hurried forward,
and as he came up he made his excuses. "I had to look," he said apologetically.
"You see it isn't every day a feller gets a chance to see a real picture--like
I've seen. Say, these hills, I guess, can hand all that Nature can paint that
way, but you need a human life in it to make a picture real to just an ordinary
man's eyes. I--had to look." But Hazel seemed to have become suddenly aware of
something of that which lay behind his words, and she hastily, and with flushed
cheeks, turned to the work of saddling her horse. Gordon attempted to help, but
she laughingly declined any aid. She pointed at the saddle bags on his saddle.
"They're packed," she said. "Say, I'll show you how to refold your blanket. This
way." Gordon spent some delicious moments struggling with his blanket under the
girl's superintendence, and his regret was all too genuine when, at last, it was
placed on Sunset's back with the saddle on the top of it. As for the mare, she
was saddled and bitted in the time it took him to cinch Sunset up. By the time
he had adjusted the bit Hazel was in the saddle, gazing down at his efforts with
merry, laughing eyes. "It does seem queer," she said. "Here are you, big and
strong, and capable of most anything. Yet it puzzles you around a saddle--which
is so simple." Gordon climbed into his saddle at last, and smiled round at her.
"I'm learning more than I ever guessed I'd learn when I left New York. I've
learned a heap of things, and you've taught me most of them. Sometime I'll have
to tell you all you've taught me, and then--and then, why, I guess maybe you'll
wonder." He laughed as they moved off. But somehow Hazel kept her eyes averted.
"Now for the enchanted tunnel again," he cried, in a less serious mood. "More
enchantment, more delight! And then--then to the serious criminal work we have
on hand. Criminal. It sounds splendid. It sounds exciting. We're conspirators of
the deepest dye." CHAPTER XVII

THE CODE BOOK

It seemed as though Peter McSwain never did anything without perspiring. He
perspired now with the simple effort of thought. But it was a considerable
effort and a considerable thought. He crowded more of the latter into five
minutes, he assured himself, than a bankrupt Wall Street man could have done on
the eve of settling day. The object of his thought was the telegraph operator
and the subject of it the interesting thesis of bribery. Then, too, there were
the side issues, which included David Slosson, a telegraph message, and two men
waiting at the other end of things for the result of his share in the
proceedings. He made no attempt at pleasant conversation with the row of guests
lounging with feet skywards on the shady veranda. For the time at least the
affairs of his hotel were quite secondary. It seemed to him just now that these
men were the misfortunes of a commercial interest. They were the things that
kept him living concealed beneath an exterior of polite attention which he
detested. He had never had a chance of being his real self until this moment.
There was work of a delicate nature to be performed, work which was to prove his
ability in those finer channels where individuality would count and genuine
cleverness must be displayed. A lot was depending upon his capacity. This
feeling inspired him, and the dew on his forehead became a moist and shallow
lake that was already overflowing its banks. At the end of five minutes, after
having seen David Slosson leave the telegraph office and move off down the Main
Street, this lake became a streaming torrent as he left the veranda and passed
round to the back of the hotel. This retrograde movement was a part of his
deeply laid plans. He had no object in visiting either his barn or his kitchens.
The Chinese cook possessed no interest for him at the moment, and as for the
hens and the team of horses, and his lame choreman who tended them, they had
never been farther from his thoughts. He appeared interested, however, and
mopped his forehead several times as he surveyed the scene with attentive eye.
Then he passed on without a word. Now his route became circuitous. He walked a
hundred yards away from the town, and appeared to be contemplating the open
country with weighty thoughts in his mind. Then he turned away and moved in
another direction, towards the railroad track. Again he paused with measuring
eye. Then he crossed the track and strode off in a fresh direction. This time he
was moving northwards away from the depot and telegraph office. Those who now
chanced to observe him lost all interest in his movements, and for the time his
perspiring face was forgotten. By the time he came within view of the hotel
veranda again his very existence had been forgotten in the midst of the busy
talk of his guests. And so he was enabled to reach the telegraph office from the
farther side without arousing comment. He casually opened the door and found
himself standing before the barrier of the paper-littered office. The operator
was at his instrument table ticking out a message in that alert, concentrated
manner peculiar to all telegraphists. The man glanced round at his visitor and
continued his work without a sign of recognition, and the hotel-keeper propped
himself on the counter and drew a cigar from his vest pocket. By the time he had
lit it satisfactorily the ticking of the instrument ceased, and a sigh of relief
warned him that Steve Mason was free. He glanced across at the table with his
hot eyes and a shadowy smile. "Busy these times, Steve," he said genially. "The
old days when we had time to sit around in this office and yarn are as far back
as the flood. Say, you ain't got paralysis of the arm yet? Maybe you work 'em
both. Hev a smoke?" Steve smiled wearily. "Don't you never take on operatin',
Peter," he said, accepting the proffered smoke. "Thanks. What's this? One of
those 'multiflavums' of yours you keep for drummers?" Peter shook his head. "My
own smokes. They match the times. We're all making fortunes." "Are we?" "Well--
ain't we?" "None of it's come my way," said Steve, lighting his cigar. "But
that's always the way. We get shunted to a bum town like this on a branch, and
they pay us salary according. If the city makes a break and gets busy and we're
nearly crazy with overwork they don't boost us up. Overwork don't mean overpay,
nor overtime. They ain't raised me a dollar. I'm going to get right on the buck
if things keep up. I tell you I've eaten three meals in this office to-day, with
my hand on the key, and I--I'm just sick to death. I don't take or send again
this night." "Guess you'll be able to make a break when you sell your holdings,"
McSwain went on sympathetically. He raised the barrier and stepped into the
office, and sat himself in a chair he had often occupied in the unruffled days
before the coal. Steve laughed and sat himself on the corner of his instrument
table. "I ain't got no holding. You can't buy land on a hundred dollars a month.
No, sir. What with the Chinee laundry and my boarding-house, I guess I need to
smoke your 'multiflavums' and drink your worst rye. Why, I ain't got a balance
over to buy an ice-cream-soda in winter." "You sure are badly staked," murmured
Peter. They smoked in silence for some moments. The atmosphere of the little
office was opening the pores of Peter's skin again. "Say," he went on presently,
mopping his brow carefully, "I made quite a stake out of that agent feller,
Slosson. Somewheres around ten thousand dollars. Quite a piece of money, eh? I
ain't sure he's a fool or a pretty wise guy." "He's the railroad man," said
Steve significantly. "Yes. That don't make him out a fool, does it?" "I'd
smile." "So'd I--if I knew more. I'd give a hundred dollars to see what's to
happen in the next week or so. I've got a big stake here, if the railroad don't
shift the depot. Slosson says they won't. Says he's bought all he needs right
here for his company. I take it he's helped himself, too. Still, I'd like to
know. The boys back at the hotel are fallin' right over 'emselves to get in.
They reckon this place is a cinch--since Slosson's bought. I'd like to be sure."
Steve laughed. He read through his friend's purpose now. The visit was not, as
he told himself, for nothing. Peter was looking for information which it would
be a serious offense for him to give--if he possessed any, which he didn't.
"Guess there's nothing doing, Peter," he said slyly. "What d'you mean?" The
hotel-keeper's eyes were hotter than ever. But there was no resentment in them.
"Why, I just don't know a thing what Slosson's doing. And if I did I couldn't
tell you. It would be a criminal offense. Slosson ain't sent a word over the
line since he started to buy metal until to-night, and the message I've just
sent for him is in code, so, as far as I'm concerned, it's so much Greek. I
don't know who it's to, even. That's why I guess there's nothing doing." "No--I
s'pose not. I s'pose codes can be read, though? There's experts who worry out
any old code. Guess it's mighty interestin'. If Slosson's sendin' in code I
guess he's got something in it he don't need folks to know. That makes it more
worrying." Peter heaved a great sigh of longing. The other shook his head.
"You've got to find the key to 'em," he said. "Yep--a Bible, or some queer old
book. Maybe the 'History of the United States.' Say, I'd hate to chase up the
'History of the United States' looking for a key. Maybe it would be interestin',
though. Say----"

"You couldn't do it in a month of years," laughed Steve, humoring his friend.
"What would it be worth to you to be able to read his code?" "Oh, maybe I'd make
fifty thousand dollars." "Whew! That's some money." "Sure. I'd like to try. Say,
boy, I'll hand you five hundred dollars to let me take a copy of that message.
All you need do is just leave it on your table there for five minutes and lock
the outer door. Then just pass right into the other room till the five minutes
is up. I'll hand you the bills right here an' now. I'd like to figure on that
message. Is it a bet?" Steve shook his head. He was scared. He knew the
consequences of discovery to himself too well. It was penitentiary. It was the
equivalent of tapping wires. But Peter was unfolding a big roll of bills, and
the temptation of handling that money was very great. "You just need to copy the
message out? That all?" "Just that. No more." "You won't need to disfigure my
record?" "Sure not." Peter grinned. He was sweating, profusely. He felt he was
on a hot scent and likely to make a kill. "Only to make a _copy_. It's a big
bunch of money for just a copy," Steve demurred suspiciously. Peter laughed.
"Say, boy, we're old friends. I ain't out to do you a hurt. All I need is to try
and worry out that code and know things. If I was sure of being able to read it,
why, this five hundred would be five thousand, and worth it all to me, every
cent of it. If I can't read that code, then I'll just hand you back my copy, and
no harm's done. See? I tell you I wouldn't hurt you for more than the money I
hope to make. Is it a bet?" Steve passed out through the barrier and turned the
key in the door. Then he came back. "I'll take that money." "Good." Peter paid
it over, and then watched the other as he took the original message which
Slosson had written off a file and laid it on the table beside a blank form.
"Say, be as sharp as you can over it," Steve said urgently. Then he passed into
the inner room and closed the door. The interior of Mike Callahan's livery barn
was typical of a small prairie town. Rows of horse-stalls ran down either side
of it, from one end to the other. At the far end sliding doors opened out upon
an enclosure, round which were the sheds sheltering a widely varied collection
of rigs and buggies. Also here there was further accommodation for horses. Just
inside the main barn, to the left, the American Irishman had two small rooms.
The one at the front, with its window on Main Street, was his office. Behind
this, dependent for light upon a window at the side of the building, was a
harness-room crowded with saddles and harness of every description, also a bunk
on which Mike usually slept when he kept the barn open at night. It was late at
night now, about midnight on the day following Peter McSwain's momentous effort
with Steve Mason. Four men were gathered together in profound council in Mike's
harness-room. The atmosphere of the place was poisonous. A horse blanket
obscured the window, and the door was shut and locked, although the barn itself
was closed for the night, and there was small enough chance of intrusion. Still,
every precaution had been taken to avoid any such contingency. A single
guttering candle stuck in the neck of a black bottle illumined the intent faces
of the men. Gordon was sitting at a small table with a sheet of paper in front
of him and a small morocco-bound book beside it. Silas Mallinsbee and Peter
McSwain were sitting upon Mike Callahan's emergency bunk, while the owner of it
contented himself with an upturned bucket near the door. Cigar-smoke clouded the
room and left the atmosphere choking, but all of them seemed quite impervious to
its inconvenience. For awhile there was no other sound than the rustle of the
leaves of Gordon's book and the scratching of the indifferent pen he had
borrowed from Mike. Then, after what seemed interminable minutes, he looked up
from his task with a transparent smile. "It's all right," he said in a low,
thrilling tone. "I guess we've got the game in our hands. He's used the
governor's code." "You can read it?" demanded Peter quickly, leaning forward
with a stiff, tense motion. "Is it what we guessed?" inquired Mike, with a sigh
of relief. Mallinsbee alone offered no comment. Gordon nodded in answer to each
inquiry. He was reading what he had written over to himself. Then he turned
sharply to Peter. "For goodness' sake give me a cigar. I need something to keep
me from shouting." His tone, and the expression of his eyes were full of
excitement. "It's the greatest luck ever," he went on, while Peter produced a
cigar and passed it across to him. "This feller's in direct communication with
the governor. You see, this code is the private one. I had it as the dad's
secretary. The manager had it, and, of course, my father. No one else. So it's
just about certain this thing was an important matter for Slosson to be allowed
to use it. Now I'd never heard of this Slosson before, so that it's also evident
he's one of my father's secret agents. A matter which further proves the
affair's importance." He lit his cigar and puffed at it leisurely as he
contemplated his paper with even greater satisfaction. "This is addressed direct
to the old man, which--makes our work doubly easy," he went on. "Also the nature
of the message helps us. If it had been to our manager it would have been more
difficult to work out my plans." He raised the paper so that the candlelight
fell full upon it. "This is the transcript. 'Occipud, New York'--that's my
father," he added in parenthesis. "'Have bought in Snake's Fall, working on
instructions. Buffalo Point crowd out for a heavy graft. Utterly unscrupulous
lot, offering impossible deal. Have turned them down on grounds provided for in
your instructions. Snake's Fall everything you require. Would suggest you come
up here incognito, if possibly convenient. There are other propositions in coal
worth a deep consideration. Coal deposits here the greatest in the country. Must
come an enormous boom. Will send word later on this matter. Am sending letter
covering operations. I think it will be urgent that you visit this place shortly
in interests of boom as well as the coal.--SLOSSON.'" Gordon looked round at the
faces of his companions in silent triumph. And in each case he encountered a
keen expectancy. As yet his fellow conspirators were rather in the dark. The
significance of that transcript was not yet sufficiently clear. "What comes
next?" inquired Mallinsbee in his calm, direct fashion. The others simply waited
for enlightenment. Gordon chuckled softly. "Now we know we can get at Slosson's
messages and my father's messages to him, and, having the code book, by a
miracle of good luck, in my possession, the rest is easy. First, Peter must get
a copy of my father's reply to this. Meanwhile I shall send an urgent message to
my father in Slosson's name to _come up here at once_. The answer to that must
never reach Slosson. Get me, Peter? You've got that boy Steve where you need
him. You must hold him there and pay his price. I'll promise him he'll come to
no harm. When my father finds out things I'll guarantee to pacify him. This way
we'll get my father here, I'll promise you. And when he does get here the fun
'll begin--as we have arranged. That clear? Mike's got his work marked out. You
yours, Peter. Mr. Mallinsbee and I will do the rest. Peter, you did a great act
laying hands on this message. It was worth double the price. The whole game is
now in our hands." Gordon folded up the paper and placed it inside the code
book, which he carefully returned to his pocket. Mike rubbed his hands. "Say,
it's sure a great play," he said gleefully. "And seein' you're his son the risk
don't amount to pea-shucks," nodded the perspiring hotel proprietor. "You can be
quite easy on that score," laughed Gordon. "I can promise you this: it won't be
the old dad's fault, when this is over, if you don't find yourselves gathered
around a mighty convivial board somewhere in New York--at his expense. You know
my father as a pretty bright financier. I don't guess you know him as the
sportsman I do." Mallinsbee suddenly bestirred himself and removed his cigar. "I
kind o' wish he weren't your father, Gordon, boy," he said bluntly. "It sort of
seems tough to me." Gordon's eyes shot a whimsical smile across at Hazel's
father. "I'd hate to have any other, Mr. Mallinsbee," he said. "Maybe I know how
you're feeling about it. But I tell you right here, if my father knew I had this
opportunity and didn't take it, he'd turn his face to the wall and never own me
as his son again. You're reckoning that for a son to do his father down sort of
puts that son on a level with David Slosson or any other low down tough. Maybe
it does. But I just think my father the bulliest feller on earth, and I love him
mighty hard. I love him so well that I'd hate to give him a moment's pain. I
tell you frankly that it would pain him if I didn't take this opportunity. It
would pain him far more than anything we intend to do to him--when we get him
here." He rose from his seat and his good-natured smile swept over the faces of
his companions. "How do you say, gentlemen? Our work's done for to-night. Are we
for bed?" CHAPTER XVIII

WAYS THAT ARE DARK

The people of Snake's Fall were in the throes of that artificial excitement
which ever accompanies the prospect of immediate and flowing wealth in a
community which has been feverishly striving with a negative result. Nor was
this excitement a healthy or agreeable wave of emotion. It was aggressive and
vulgar. It was hectoring and full of a blatant self-advertisement. Men who had
never done better for themselves than a third-rate hotel, or who had never used
anything more luxurious than a street car for locomotion in their ordinary daily
life, now talked largely of Plaza hotels and automobiles, of real estate corners
and bank balances. They sought by every subterfuge to exercise the dominance of
their own personalities in the affairs of the place, only that they might the
further enhance their individual advantage. Schemes for building and trading
were in everybody's minds, and money, so long held tight under the pressure of
doubt, now began to flow in one incessant stream towards the coffers of the
already established traders. Every boom city is more or less alike, and Snake's
Fall was no variation to the rule. Gambling commenced in deadly earnest, and the
sharpers, with the eye of the vulture for carrion, descended upon the place. How
word had reached them would have been impossible to tell. Then came the
accompaniment of loose houses, and every other evil which seems to settle upon
such places like a pestilential cloud. To Gordon, looking on and waiting, it was
all a matter of the keenest interest, not untinged with a certain wholesome-
minded disgust, and when he sometimes spoke of it in the little family circle at
the ranch, or to the worldly-wise Mike Callahan in his barn, his talk was never
without a hint of real regret. "It makes a feller feel kind of squeamish
watching these folks," he observed to Mike, as they sat smoking in the latter's
harness-room one afternoon. "You see, if I didn't know the whole game was lying
in the palm of my hand I'd just simply sicken at the sordidness of it. We can't
feel that way, though. We're worse than them. They're just dead in earnest to
beat the game by the accepted rules of it, which don't debar general
crookedness. We're out to win by sheer piracy. Makes you laugh, doesn't it?
Makes it a good play." Mike was older, and had been brought up in a hard school.
"Feelin's don't count one way or the other, I guess," he replied contemptuously.
"When it comes to takin' the dollars out of the other feller's pocket I'm allus
ready and willin'. You can allus help him out after you beat him. Private
charity after the deal is a sort of liqueur after a good dinner." "Charity?"
Gordon laughed. "Well, maybe you got another name for it," retorted Mike
indifferently. "Several," laughed Gordon. "Rob a man and give him something back
needs another name." "They call it 'charity' in the newspapers when them
philanthropists hand back part of the wad they've collected from a deluded
public--anyway. It don't seem different to me." Mike's tone was sharply
argumentative. "It isn't different," agreed Gordon. "They're both a salve to
conscience. The only thing is that public charity of the latter nature has the
advantage of personal advertisement. I'm learning things, Mike. I'm learning
that the moment you get groping for dollars, you've just tied up into a sack all
the goodness and virtue handed out to you by the Creator and--drowned it."
Though Gordon was never able to carry any sort of conviction on these matters
with Mike, his occasional regrets found a cordial sympathy in Hazel Mallinsbee.
She watched him very closely during the days of waiting for the maturity of his
schemes. She knew the impulse which had inspired him. She understood it
thoroughly. It was humor, and she liked him all the better for it. She realized
to the full all the depth of love Gordon possessed for his father, an affection
which was not one whit the less for the fact that to all intents and purposes
his object was the highway robbery of that parent. It was something of a
paradox, but one which she perfectly understood. She felt that it was a case of
two strong personalities opposed to each other in friendly rivalry. Gordon had
propounded his beliefs to a man of great capacity whose convictions were
opposed. Opportunity had served the younger man, who now intended to drive his
point home ruthlessly, with a deep, kindly humor lying behind his every act. She
could imagine, though she had never seen James Carbhoy, these two men, big and
strong and kindly, sitting opposite each other, smoking luxuriously when it was
all over, discussing the whole situation in the friendliest possible spirit. Her
father offered little comment. Curiously enough, this man, who had so much at
stake, deep in his heart did not approve of the whole thing. It was not that he
possessed ordinary scruples. Had the conspiracy been opposed to anybody but
Gordon's father he would have been heart and soul in the affair. He would have
reveled in the daring of the trick which Gordon intended to carry out. As it
was, he was old-fashioned enough to see some sort of heinous ingratitude and
offense in the fact of a son pitted piratically against his father. However, he,
like his daughter, watched closely for every sign this son of his father gave.
But while Hazel watched with sympathy and real understanding, he saw only with
the searching eyes of the observer who is seeking the manner of man with whom he
is dealing. Once only, during the days of waiting and comparative inaction, he
gave vent to his disapproval, and even then his manner was purely that of
regret. They were sitting together in the evening sunlight on the veranda of the
ranch. "Gordon, boy," he said in his deep, rumbling voice, after a long,
thoughtful pause; "if I had a son, which I guess I haven't, it would hurt like
sin to think he'd act towards me same as you're doing to your father." His
remark did not bring forth an immediate reply. When, however, it finally came,
accompanied as it was by twinkling, mischievous blue eyes, and a smile of
infinite amusement, Hazel, who was standing in the doorway of the house, fully
understood, although it left her father unconvinced. "If you were my father, I
guess you wouldn't hate it a--little bit," Gordon said cheerfully. Then his eyes
wandered in Hazel's direction, and presently came back again to her father's
face. "Maybe I'll live many a long year yet, and if I do I can tell you right
here that perhaps there'll only be one greater moment in my life, than the
moment in which we win out on this scheme. I just want you to remember, all
through, that I love my old dad with all that's in me. Same as Hazel loves you."
From that moment Gordon heard no further protest throughout all the preparations
that had to be made. Silas Mallinsbee cheerfully acquiesced in all that was
demanded of him. Furthermore, he tacitly acknowledged Gordon's absolute
leadership. Under that leadership much had to be done of a subtle, secret
nature. The impression had to be created that the Buffalo Point interests had
completely abandoned the game. It was an anxious time--anxious and watchful.
David Slosson was kept under close surveillance by the four conspirators, and,
to this end, Gordon and Silas Mallinsbee spent most of their time in Snake's
Fall, which further added to the impression that their interests had been
abandoned. Having succeeded in bribing Steve Mason, the telegraph operator, in
the first place, Peter McSwain further bought him body and soul over to their
interests. Mallinsbee's purse was wide open for all such contingencies, and
Steve was left with the comfortable feeling that, whatever happened, he had made
sufficient money to throw up his job before any crash came, and clear out to
safety with a capital he could never have honestly made out of his work. Thus
Gordon had been enabled at last to dispatch his urgent code message to his
father, purporting as it did to come from David Slosson. It was an irresistible
demand for the Union Grayling and Ukataw Railroad President's immediate presence
in Snake's Fall. It had been made as strong as David Slosson would have dared to
make it. Nor, when the answer to it arrived, would it ever reach the agent.
Nothing was forgotten. Every detail had been prepared for with a forethought
almost incredible in a man of Gordon's temperament and experience. It was late
evening the second day after the dispatching of Gordon's urgent message. He had
not long returned home to the ranch with Hazel's father from a day amidst the
excitement reigning in Snake's Fall. Hazel was in the house clearing away supper
and generally superintending her domestic affairs. Silas Mallinsbee was round at
the corrals in consultation with his ranch foreman. Gordon was alone on the
veranda smoking and gazing thoughtfully out at the wonderful ruddy sunset. For
him there was none of the peace which prevailed over the scene that spread out
before him. How could there be? Every moment of the two days which had
intervened since the dispatching of his message had been fraught with tense,
nervous doubt. Every plan he had made depended on the answer to that message,
and he felt that the time-limit for the answer's arrival had been reached. It
must come now within a few hours. He felt that he must get it to-morrow morning
or never. And when it came what--what then? Would it be the reply he desired, or
an uncompromising negative? He felt that the whole thing depended upon the
relations between his father and his agent. He was inclined to think, from the
very nature of the work his father had intrusted to Slosson, that those
relations were of the greatest confidence. He hoped it was so, but he could not
be absolutely sure. Therefore the strain of waiting was hard to bear. While his
busy thoughts teemed through his brain, and his unappreciative gaze roamed over
the purpling of the distant hills, his ears, rendered unusually acute in the
deep evening calm, suddenly caught the faint, distant rumble of a vehicle moving
over the trail. His quick eyes turned alertly. There was only one trail, and
that was the road to Snake's Fall. The alertness of his eyes communicated itself
to his body. He moved off the veranda and gazed down the trail, of which he now
obtained a clear view. A team and buggy were approaching at a rapid rate, and,
even at that distance, he fancied he recognized it as the one of Mike Callahan's
which he had himself driven. A wave of excitement swept over him. Could it be
that----? He went back to the veranda. The impulse to summon Mallinsbee was hard
to resist. But he forced himself to calmness. Five minutes later Mike Callahan
drove up, and his team stood drooping and sweating. "Say," he cried, in
aggrieved fashion, "it jest set me whoopin' mad when that wire-tappin' operator
fell into my barn with his blamed message, twenty minutes after you an'
Mallinsbee had left. Look at the time of it. It had buzzed over the wire ha'f an
hour before you went." Then he began to grin, and a keen light shone in his
Irish eyes. "But when I see who it was from I guessed I'd need to get busy.
'Tain't in your fancy code. It's jest as plain as my face. Read it. The game's
up to us. Guess it's our move next." But Gordon was paying no attention to the
Irishman. He was reading the brief message which at last set all his doubts at
rest. "Arrive Snake's Fall noon seventeenth." It was addressed to Slosson, but
there was no signature. "That's to-morrow." Gordon's eyes lit. Then a shadow of
doubt crossed his smiling face. "It's dead safe Steve hasn't sent a copy to
Slosson?" Mike grinned. "Steve don't draw his wad till--we're sure." "No." At
that moment Mallinsbee appeared round the angle of the building. Gordon's face
was wreathed in smiles as he turned to him. "We get to work--to-night," he said.
Mallinsbee nodded, without a sign of the other's excitement. "So I guessed when
I see Mike's team. Peter wise?" "Yep." The Irishman's spirits had risen to a
great pitch. "I put him wise." "Splendid. He's got everything ready?" Gordon was
thinking rapidly. "Better send your team round to the barn," said Mallinsbee,
with that thoughtful care he had for all animals. "Then come inside and get some
supper." Mike prepared to drive round to the barn. "I see the rack in his yard,"
he grinned. "Good." Then Gordon laughed. The last care had been banished. Now it
was action. Now? Ah, now he was perfectly happy. The night was intensely still.
The last revelers in Snake's Fall had betaken themselves to their drunken
slumbers. The only lights remaining were the glow of a small cluster of red
lamps just outside the town at the eastern end of it, and the peeping lights
behind the curtained windows of the houses to which these belonged. There was no
need to question the nature of these houses. In the West they are to be found on
the fringe of every young town that offers the prospect of prosperity. There was
a single light burning in the hall of McSwain's hotel. This was as usual, and
would burn all night. For the rest, the house was in darkness. The last guest
had retired to rest a full hour or more. The stillness was profound. The very
profundity of it was only increased by the occasional long-drawn dole of the
prairie coyote, foraging somewhere out in the distance for its benighted prey.
The shadowed outbuildings behind the hotel remained for a long time as quiet as
the rest of the world. The horses in the barn were sleeping peacefully. The
fowls and turkeys and geese which populated the yard in daylight were as
profoundly steeped with sleep as the rest of the feathered world. Even the two
aged husky dogs, set there on the presumption of keeping guard, were composed
for the night. But after awhile sounds began to emanate from the dark barn. With
the first sound a dog-chain rattled, and immediately a low voice spoke. After
that the dog-chain remained still. Next came the sound of hoofs on the hard sand
floor of the barn. They were hasty, but swiftly passing. The last sound was
heard as two horses emerged upon the open, each led by a shadowy figure quite
unrecognizable in the velvety darkness of the starlit night. The horses moved
across towards the vague outline of a large hayrack which stood mounted in the
running gear of a dismantled wagon, and the figures leading them began at once
to hook them up in place. While this was happening two other figures were
loading the rack with hay from the corral near by, in which stood a half-cut
haystack. Their work seemed to be more intricate than the usual process of
loading a hayrack. There seemed to be a sort of wide and long cage in the bottom
of the rack, and the hay needed careful placing to leave the interior of this
free, while yet surrounding it completely and rendering it absolutely obscured.
In less than half an hour the work was completed, and the four men gathered
together and conversed in low voices. After this a fresh movement took place.
The group broke up, and each moved off as though to carry out affairs already
agreed upon. One man mounted the rack and took up his position for driving the
team. Another stood near the rear of the wagon and remained waiting, whilst the
other two moved towards the hotel. These latter parted as they neared the
building. One of them entered it through the back door, and as he came within
the radiance of the solitary oil-lamp it became apparent that his face was
completely masked. He moved stealthily forward, listening for any unwelcome
sound, mounted the staircase, and was immediately swallowed up by the darkness
of the corridor above. Meanwhile his companion had taken another route. He had
moved along the building to the left of the back door. His objective was the
iron fire-escape which went up to the gallery outside the upper windows. He
found it almost at the end of the building, and began the ascent. In a few
moments he was at the top, and, moving along the narrow iron gallery, he counted
the windows as he passed them. At the fifth window he paused and examined it.
The blind inside was withdrawn, and he ran over in his mind the various details
which had been given him. He knew that the latch inside had been carefully
removed. He tried the window cautiously. It moved easily to his pressure, and a
smile stole over his masked features when he remembered that ample grease had
been placed in its slipway. It was good to think that these contingencies had
been so carefully provided for. The window was sufficiently open. The process
had been entirely soundless, but he bent down and listened intently. Far away,
somewhere inside, he could hear the sound of deep breathing. He made his next
move quickly and stealthily. One leg was raised and thrust through the opening,
and, bending his great body nearly double, he made his way into the room beyond.
Pausing for a few moments to assure himself that the sleeper in the adjoining
room had not been disturbed, he next made his way towards the door, aided by the
light of a silent sulphur match. He quickly withdrew the bolt, and was
immediately joined by the man who had entered the hotel through the back door.
Now he turned his attention to the room itself. Yes, everything was as he had
been told. It was a largish room, and a small archway, hung with heavy curtains,
divided it from another. The portion he had entered was furnished as a parlor,
and beyond the curtains was the bedroom. Signing to his companion to remain
where he was, he moved swiftly and silently to the heavy drawn curtains. For a
second he listened to the breathing beyond; then he parted them and vanished
within. David Slosson awoke out of a heavy sleep with a sudden nightmarish
start. He thought some one was calling him, shouting his name aloud in a
terrified voice. But now he was wide awake in the pitch-dark room: no sound
broke the silence. He was on his back, and he made to turn over on to his side.
Instantly something cold and hard encountered his cheek and a whispering voice
broke the silence. "One word and you're a dead man!" said the voice. "Just keep
quite still and don't speak, and you won't come to any harm." David Slosson was
no fool, nor was he a coward, but, amongst his other many experiences on the
fringe of civilization, he had learned the power of a gun held right. He knew
that his cheek had encountered the cold muzzle of a gun. Shocked and startled
and helpless as he was, he remained perfectly still and silent, awaiting
developments. They came swiftly. The curtains parted and a man, completely
masked and clad in the ordinary prairie kit of the West, and bearing a lighted
lamp in his hand, entered the room. His first assailant, holding the gun only
inches from his head, Slosson could not properly discern. Out of the corners of
his eyes he was aware that his face was masked like that of the other, but that
was all. The newcomer set the lamp down on a table and advanced to the other
side of the bed. Instantly he produced a strap, enwrapped in the folds of a
thick towel. Slosson realized what was about to happen, and contemplated
resistance. As though his thoughts had been read the man with the gun spoke
again--

"Only one sound an' I'll blow your brains to glory. Ther' ain't no help around
that you ken get in time. So don't worry any." The threat of the gun was
irresistible, and Slosson yielded. The second man forced the strap gag into his
mouth and buckled it tightly behind his victim's head. This done, the agent's
hands were lashed fast with a rope. Then the gun was withdrawn and the wretched
agent was assisted into his clothes, after the pockets had been searched for
weapons. In a quarter of an hour the whole transaction was completed, and, with
hands securely fastened behind his back and the gag in his mouth fixed cruelly
firmly, David Slosson stood ready to follow his captors. During all that time he
had used his eyes and all his intelligence to discover the identity of his
assailants, but without avail. Even their great size afforded him no
enlightenment, with their entire faces hidden under the enveloping masks. In
silence the light was extinguished. In silence they left the room and proceeded
down the stairs. In silence they came to the waiting hayrack outside. Here
Slosson beheld the other two masked figures, one on the wagon, and the other
waiting at the rear of it. But he was given no further chance of observation.
His captors seized him bodily and lifted him into the cage beneath the hay,
while one of the men got in with him and now secured his feet. After that more
hay was thrown into the vehicle, till it looked like an ordinary farmer's rack,
and then the horses started off, and the prisoner knew that, for some
inexplicable reason, he had been kidnaped. Mrs. Carbhoy had been concerned all
day. When she was concerned about anything her temper generally gave way to a
condition which her youthful daughter was pleased to describe as "gritty."
Whether it really described her mother's mood or not mattered little. It
certainly expressed Gracie's understanding of it. To-day nothing the child did
was right. She had called her physical culture instructress a "cat" that
morning, only because she had been afraid to enter into a more drastic physical
argument with her. For that her "gritty" mother had deprived her of candy for
the day. She had refused to do anything right at her subsequent dancing lesson,
in consequence, and for that she had had her week's pocket-money stopped. Then
at lunch she had willfully broken the peace by upsetting a glass of ice-water
upon the glass-covered table, and incidentally had broken the glass. For this
she was confined to her school-room for the rest of the day, and was only
allowed to appear before her disturbed mother at her nine-o'clock bed hour. When
a very indignant Gracie appeared before her mother to fulfill her final duty of
kissing her "good-night," that individual was more "gritty" than ever. She was
in the act of opening a bulky letter addressed to her in a familiar handwriting.
Gracie knew at once from whom it came. Instantly the imp of mischief stirred in
her bosom. "What nursing home will you send Gordon to when he gets back?" she
inquired blandly. Her mother eyed her coldly while she drew out the sheets of
letter-paper. She pointed to a wall bell. "Ring that bell," she ordered sharply.
Gracie obeyed, wondering what was to be the consequence of her fresh effort. She
had not long to wait. Her mother's maid entered. "Tell Huxton to pack Miss
Gracie's trunks ready for Tuxedo. She will leave for Vernor Court by the midday
express. Her governesses will accompany her." The maid retired. In an instant
all hope had fled, and Gracie was reduced to hasty penitence. "Please, momma,
don't send me out to the country. I'm sorry for what I've done to-day, real
sorry--but I've just had the fidgets all day, what with pop going away and--and
that silly Gordon never coming near us, or--or anything. True, momma, I won't be
naughty ever again. 'Deed I won't. Oh, say you won't send me off by myself," she
urged, coming coaxingly to her mother's side. "There's Jacky Molyneux going to
take me a run in his automobile to-morrow afternoon, and we're going to Garden
City, and he always gives me heaps of ice-cream. Oh, momma, don't send me off to
that dreadful Tuxedo." At all times Mrs. Carbhoy was easily cajoled, and just
now she was feeling so miserable and lonely since her husband had been called
away on urgent business, she knew not where. Then here was another of Gordon's
troublesome letters in her lap. So in her trouble she yielded to her only
remaining belonging. But she forthwith sat her long-legged daughter on a
footstool at her feet, and as penance made her listen to the reading of the
letter which had just arrived. Somehow, in view of the previous letters from her
son, Mrs. Carbhoy felt it to be impossible to face this new one without support,
even if that support were only that of her wholly inadequate thirteen-year-old
daughter. "DEAREST MUM:

"Since Cain got busy shooting up his brother Abel, since Delilah became a slave
to the tonsorial art and practiced on Samson, since Jael turned her carpentering
stunts to considerable account by hammering tacks into poor Sisera's head, right
through the long ages down to the record-breaking achievements of the champion
prevaricator Ananias, I guess the crookedness of human nature has progressed
until it has reached the pitch of a fine art, such as is practiced by
legislators, diplomats and New York police officers. "This is a sweeping
statement, but I contend it is none the less true. "I'd say that in examining
the facts we need to study the real meaning of 'crookedness.' We must locate its
cause as well as effect. Now 'crookedness' is the divergence from a straight
line, which some fool man spent a lifetime in discovering was the shortest route
from one given point to another. No doubt that fellow thought he was making some
discovery, but it kind of seems to me any chump outside the bug-house and not
under the influence of drink would know it without having to spend even a summer
vacation finding it out, and, anyway, I don't guess it's worth shouting about.
"I guess it's up to us to track this straight line down in its application to
ethics. That buzzy-headed discoverer also says a line is length without breadth.
Consequently, I argue that a straight line is just 'nothing,' anyway. Then when
a mush-headed dreamer starts right out to walk the straight line of life it's a
million to one chance he'll break his fool neck, or do some other positively
ridiculous stunt that's liable to terminate what ought to have been a promising
career. I submit, from the foregoing arguments, the straight line of ethical
virtue is just a vision, a dream, an hallucination, a nightmare. It's one of
those things the whole world loves to sit around on Sundays and yarn about, and
just as many folks would hate to practice, anyway. And this is as sure as you'll
find the only bit of glass on the road when you're automobiling if you don't
just happen to be toting a spare tyre. "Seeing that you can't everlastingly keep
trying to walk on 'nothing' without disastrous consequences, and, further,
seeing the days of miracles have died with many other privileges which our
ancestors enjoyed, such as being burned at the stake and painting up our bodies
in fancy colors, it is natural, even a necessity, that 'crookedness' should have
come into its own. "Let's start right in at the first chapter of a man's life.
It'll point the whole argument without anything else. It's ingrained even in the
youngest kid to resort to subterfuge. Subterfuge is merely the most innocent
form in a crook's thesis. Maybe a kid, lying in its cradle, with only a few days
of knowledge to work on, don't know the finer points he'll learn later. But he
knows what he wants, and is going to get it. He's going to get the other feller
where he wants him, and then force him to do his bidding. It's his first effort
in 'crookedness' when he finds the straight line of virtue is just a most
uncomfortable nightmare. How does he do it? "I guess it's this way. He needs his
food. He guesses his gasoline tank needs filling. He don't guess he's going to
lie around with a sort of mean draught blowing pneumonia through his vitals. He
just waits around awhile to see if any one's yearning to pump up his infantile
tyre, and when he finds there's nothing doing, why, he starts right in to make
his first fall off the straight line of virtue. You see, the straight line says
that kid's tank needs filling only at stated intervals. The said kid don't see
it that way, so he turns himself into a human megaphone, scares the household
cat into a dozen fits, starts up a canine chorus in the neighboring backyards,
makes his father yearn to shoot up the feller that wrote the marriage service,
sets the local police officer tracking down a murder that was never committed,
and maybe, if he only keeps things humming long enough, sets all the State legal
machinery working overtime to have his parents incarcerated for keeping an
insanitary nuisance on the premises. "See the crookedness of that kid? The
moment he finds himself duly inflated with milk he lies low. Do you get the
lesson of it? It's plumb simple. That kid wanted something. He didn't care a
cuss for regulations. He just laid right there and said, 'Away with 'em!' He was
thirsty, or hungry, or greedy. Maybe he was all three. Anyway, he wanted, and
set about getting what he wanted the only way he knew. All of which illustrates
the fact that when human nature demands satisfaction no laws or regulations are
going to stand in the way. And that's just life from the day we're born. "From
the foregoing remarks you may incline to the belief that I have set out
willfully to outrage every moral and human law. This is not quite the case. I am
merely giving you the benefit of my observations, and also, since I am merely
another human unit in the perfectly ridiculous collection of bipeds which go to
make up the alleged superior races of this world, I must fall into line with the
rest. "If Abel gets in my way I must 'out' him. If I can manufacture a down
cushion out of old Samson's hair to make my lot more comfortable, I'm just going
to get the best pair of shears and get busy. If I'm going to collect amusement
from studding that chump Sisera's head with tacks, why, it's up to me to avoid
delay that way. And as for Ananias, he seems to me to have been a long way ahead
of his time. They'd have had his monument set up in every public office in the
country to-day. He'd have been the emblem of every trading corporation I know,
and his effigy would have served as the coat-of-arms for the whole of the
present-day creation. "I trust you are keeping well, and the responsibility of
guiding the development of our Gracie is showing no sign of undermining your
constitution. Gracie is really a good girl, if a little impetuous. I notice,
however, that impetuosity gives way before the responsibilities of life. So far
she is quite young. I'm hoping good results when she gets responsibility. "Give
my best love to the old Dad, and tell him that he must be careful of his health
in such a desperate heat as New York provides in summer time. I think a month's
vacation in the hills would be excellent for him at this time of year. I am
looking forward to the time when I shall see him again. "You might tell him I
hope to fulfill my mission under schedule time. If you do not hear from me again
you will know I am working overtime on the interests in which I left New York.
"Your loving son,   "GORDON. "P.S.--It occurs to me I have not told you all the
news I would have liked to tell you. But two pieces occur to me at the moment.
First, that achievement in life demands not the fostering of the gentler human
emotions, but their outraging. Also, no man has the right to abandon honesty
until dishonesty pays him better. "G."

The mother's sigh was a deep expression of her hopeless feelings as she finished
the last word of her son's postscript. Gracie watched her out of the corners of
her eyes. "What's the matter, momma?" she inquired. Her mother broke down
weakly. "They haven't found a trace of him yet. They can't locate how these
letters are mailed. They can't just find a thing. And all the time these letters
come along, and--and they get worse and worse. It's no good, Gracie; the poor
boy's just crazy. Sure as sure. It's the heat, or--or drink, or strain, or--
maybe he's starving. Anyway, he's gone, and we'll never see our Gordon again--
not in his right mind. And now your poor father's gone, too. Goodness knows
where. I'll--yes, I'll have to set the inquiry people to find him, too, if--if I
don't hear from him soon. To--to think I'd have lived to see the day when----"

"I don't guess Gordon's in any sort of trouble, momma," cried Gracie, displaying
an unexpected sympathy for her distracted parent. Then she smiled that wise
little superior smile of youth which made her strong features almost pretty.
"And I'm sure he's not--crazy. Say, mom, just don't think anything more about
it. And I'd sort of keep all those letters--if they're like that. You never told
me the others. May I read them? I never would have believed Gordon could have
written like that--never. You see, Gordon's not very bright--is he?" CHAPTER XIX

JAMES CARBHOY ARRIVES

Snake's Fall was in that sensitive state when the least jar or news of a
startling nature was calculated to upset it, and start its tide of human
emotions bubbling and surging like a shallow stream whose course has been
obstructed by the sudden fall of a bowlder into its bed. Early the following
morning just such a metaphorical bowlder fell right into the middle of the
Snake's Fall stream. The news flew through the little town, now so crowded with
its overflowing population of speculators, with that celerity which vital news
ever attains in small, and even large places. It was on everybody's lips before
the breakfast tables were cleared. And, in a matter of seconds, from the moment
of its penetration to the individual, minds were searching not only the meaning,
but the effect it would have upon the general situation, and their own personal
affairs in particular. David Slosson, the agent of the Union Grayling and Ukataw
Railroad, had defected in the night! He had gone--bolted--leaving his bill
unpaid at McSwain's hotel! For a while a sort of paralysis seized upon the
population. It was staggered. No trains had passed through in the night. Not
even a local freight train. How had he gone? But most of all--why? The next bit
of news that came through was that Peter's best team had been stolen from the
barn, also an empty hay-rack. This was mystifying, until it became known that
Peter's buggy was laid up at Mike Callahan's barn, undergoing repairs. The
hayrack was the only vehicle available. But what about saddle horses for a rapid
bolt? Curiously enough it was discovered that Peter's saddle horses were out
grazing. Besides, the story added that the man had taken his baggage with him.
Not a thing had been left behind, and baggage like his could not have been
carried on a saddle horse. The story grew as it traveled. It was the snowball
over again. It was said that Peter had been robbed of a large amount of money
which he kept in his safe. Also his cash register had been emptied. An added
item was that Peter himself had been knifed, and had been found in a dying
condition. In fact every conceivable variation of the facts were flung abroad
for the benefit of credulous ears. Consequently the tide of curious, and
startled, and interested news-seekers set in the direction of Peter's hotel at
an early hour. Then it was that something of the real facts were discovered.
And, in consequence, those who had participated in Slosson's land deals, and had
received deposit money, congratulated themselves. While those who had not so
profited felt like "kicking" themselves for their want of enterprise. Peter
stormed through his house the whole morning. He was like a very hot and angry
lion in a cage far too small for it. His story, as he told it in the office, was
superlative in furious adjectives. "I tell you fellows," he cried, at a group of
wondering-eyed boarders in his establishment, "I ha'f suspected he was a blamed
crook from the first moment I got my eyeballs onto him. The feller that 'll bilk
his board bill is come mighty low, sirs. So mighty low you wouldn't find a well
deep enough for him. He had the best rooms in the house at four an' a ha'f
dollars a day all in, an' I ain't see a fi' cent piece of his money, cep' you
ken count the land deposit he paid me. I just been right through his rooms, an'
he ain't left a thing, not a valise, nor a grip. Not even a soot of pyjamas, or
a soap tablet. He's sure cleared right out fer good, and we ain't goin' to see
him round again," he finished up gloomily. Then his fire broke out again. "But
that ain't what I'm grievin' most, I guess. Ther's allus skunks around till a
place gets civilized up, an' their bokay ain't pleasant. But he's a hoss thief,
too. There's my team. You know that team of mine, Mr. Davison," he went on,
turning to the drug storekeeper who had dropped in to hear his friend's news.
"You've drove behind 'em many a time. They got a three-minute gait between 'em
which 'ud show dust to any team around these parts. That team was worth two
thousand dollars, sirs, and was matched to an inch, and a shade of color. Say,
if I get across his tracks, an' Sheriff Richardson is out after him with a
posse, I'm goin' to get a shot in before the United States Authorities waste
public money feeding him in penitentiary. I'm feelin' that mad I can't eat, an'
I don't guess I'd know how to hand a decent answer to a Methodist minister if he
came along. If I don't get news of that team I'm just going to start and break
something. I don't figure if he'd burned this shack right over my head I'd have
felt as mad as I do losin' that dandy team." When questioned as to how the man
had got away his answer came sharply. "How? Why, what was there to stop him,
sir? I tell you right here we ain't been accustomed to deal with his kind in
Snake's. The folk around this layout, till this coal boom started, has all been
decent citizens." He glared with hot eyes upon the men about him, who were
nearly all speculators attracted by that very coal boom. "There's that darned
fire-escape out back, right down from his room, an' what man has ever locked his
barn in these parts? Psha!" he cried, in violent disgust. "I've had that team
three years, and I've never so much as had a lock put to the barn." So it went
on all the morning. Peter's fury was one of the sights of the township for that
day. He was never without an audience which flowed and ebbed like a tide,
stimulated by curiosity, self-interest, and the natural satisfaction of
witnessing another's troubles which is so much an instinct of human nature. And
beneath every other emotion which the agent's sudden defection aroused was a
wave of almost pitiful meanness. The dreams of the last week and more had
received a set back. In many minds the boom city was tottering. The crowding
hopes of avarice and self-interest had suddenly received a douche of cold water.
What, these speculators asked themselves, and each other, did the incident
portend, what had the future in store? So keen was the interest worked up about
Peter McSwain's house that every other consideration for the time being was
forgotten. Party after party visited Slosson's late quarters with a feeling of
conviction that some trifling clew had been overlooked, and, by some happy
chance, the luck and glory of having discovered it might fall to their lot. But
it was all of no avail. The room was absolutely empty of all trace of its recent
occupant, as only an hotel room can become. With the excitement the daily west-
bound passenger train was forgotten, and by the time it was signaled in, the
little depot was almost deserted. There were one or two rigs backed up to it on
the town side, and perhaps a dozen townspeople were present. But the usual
gathering was nowhere about. Amongst the few present were Hazel Mallinsbee and
Gordon. They had driven up in a democrat wagon with a particularly fine team,
and having backed the vehicle up to the boarded platform, they stood talking
earnestly and quite unnoticed. Hazel was dressed in an ordinary suit that
possessed nothing startling in its atmosphere of smartness. Her skirt was of
some rather hard material, evidently for hard wear, and the upper part of her
costume was a white lawn shirtwaist under a short jacket which matched her
skirt. Her head was adorned by her customary prairie hat, which, in Gordon's
eyes, became her so admirably. Gordon was holding up a picture for the girl's
closest inspection. "Say, it's sheer bull-headed luck I got this with me," he
was saying. "I found it amongst my old papers and things when I left New York,
and I sort of brought it along as a 'mascot.' The old dad's older than that now,
but you can't mistake him. It's a bully likeness. Get it into your mind anyway,
and then keep it with you." Hazel gazed admiringly at the portrait of the man
who claimed Gordon as his son. For the moment she forgot the purpose in hand.
"Isn't he just splendid?" she exclaimed. "You're--you're the image of him. Why,
say, it seems the unkindest thing ever to--to play him up." Gordon laughed.
"Don't worry that way. We're going to give him the time of his life." Then he
glanced swiftly about him, and noted the emptiness of the depot. "I guess
Peter's keeping the folks busy. He's a bright feller. I surely guess he's
working overtime. Now you get things fixed right, Hazel. The train's coming
along." The girl nodded. "You can trust me." "Right." Gordon sighed. "I'll make
tracks then. But I'll be around handy to see you don't make a mistake." He left
the depot and disappeared. Hazel stood studying the picture in her hand, and
alternating her attention with the incoming train. She was in a happy mood. The
excitement of her share in Gordon's plot was thrilling through her veins, and
the thought that she was going to meet his father, the great multi-millionaire,
left her almost beside herself with delighted interest. She wondered how much
she would find him like Gordon. No, she thought softly, he could never be really
like Gordon. That was impossible. A multi-millionaire could never have his son's
frank enthusiasm for life in all its turns and twistings of moral impulse.
Gordon faced life with a defiant "don't care." That glorious spirit of youth and
moral health. His father, for all his physical resemblance, would be a hard,
stern, keen-eyed man, with all experience behind him. Then she remembered
Gordon's injunctions. "Be just yourself," he had said. Then he had added, with a
laugh, "If you do that you'll have the dear old boy at your feet long before the
day's had time to get cool." It was rather nice Gordon talking that way, and the
smile which accompanied her recollection was frankly delighted. Anyway she would
soon know all about it, for the train was already rumbling its way in. James
Carbhoy had done all that had been required of him by his agent's message. He
had not welcomed the abandonment of his private car in favor of the ordinary
parlor car and sleeper. Then, too, the purchase of a ticket for his journey had
seemed strange. But somehow, after the first break from his usual method of
travel, he had found enjoyment in the situation. His fellow passengers, with
whom he had got into conversation on the journey, had passed many pleasant
hours, and it became quite absorbing to look on at the affairs of the world
through eyes that, for the time being, were no longer those of one of the
country's multi-millionaires. However, the journey was a long one, and he was
pleased enough when he reached his destination all unheralded and unrecognized.
It amused him to find how many travelers in the country knew nothing about James
Carbhoy and his vast financial exploits. As the train slowed down he gathered up
his simple belongings, which consisted of a crocodile leather suitcase, a stout
valise of the same material; and a light dust coat, which he slung over his arm.
Armed with these, he fell in with the queue making its way towards the exit of
the car. He frankly and simply enjoyed the situation. He told himself he was
merely one of the rest of the get-rich-quick brigade who were flocking to the
Eldorado at Snake's Fall. He was the last to alight, and he scanned the depot
platform for the familiar figure of his confidential agent. As he did so the
locomotive bell began to toll out its announcement of progress. The train slowly
slid out of the station behind him. David Slosson was nowhere to be seen, and he
had just made up his mind to search out a hotel for himself when he became aware
of the tailored figure of a young girl standing before him, and of the pleasant
tones of her voice addressing him. "Your agent, David Slosson, Mr. Carbhoy, has
been detained out beyond the coalfields on your most urgent business," she said.
"So I was sent in with the rig to drive you out to your quarters." The
millionaire was startled. Then, as his steady eyes searched the delightful face
smiling up at him, his start proved a pleasant one. There was something so very
charming in the girl's tone and manner. Then her extremely pretty eyes, and--
Gordon's father mechanically bared his head, and Hazel could have laughed with
joy as she beheld this strong, handsome edition of the Gordon she knew. "Well,
come, that was thoughtful of Slosson," he said kindly. "He certainly has shown
remarkable judgment in substituting your company for his own. My dear young
lady, Slosson as a man of affairs is possible, but as a companion on a journey,
however short--well, I---- And you are really going to drive me to my hotel.
That's surely kind of you." Hazel flushed. She felt the meanest thing in the
world under the great man's kindly regard. However, she reminded herself of the
great and ultimate object of the part she was playing and steeled her heart.
"The team's right here, sir." She felt justified in adding the "sir." She felt
that she must risk nothing in her manner. "I'll just take your baggage along."
She was about to relieve the millionaire of his grips, but he drew back. "Say, I
just couldn't dream of it. You carry my grips? No, no, go right ahead, and I'll
bring them along." In a perfect maze of excitement and confusion the girl
hastily crossed over to her team. Somehow she could no longer face the man's
steady eyes without betraying herself like some weak, silly schoolgirl. This was
Gordon's father, she kept telling herself, and--and she was there to cheat him.
It--it just seemed dreadful. However, no time was wasted. She sprang into the
driving-seat of the democrat spring rig, and took up the reins. The millionaire
deposited his grips in the body of the vehicle, and himself mounted to the seat
beside her. In a moment the wagon was on the move. As they moved away, out of
the corners of her eyes Hazel saw the grinning face of Gordon peering out at
them from the window of Steve Mason's telegraph office, smiling approval and
encouragement. Curiously enough, the sight made her feel almost angry. They
moved down Main Street at a rattling pace, and, in a few moments, turned off it
into one of those streets which only the erection of dwelling-houses marked.
There were no made roads of any sort. Just beaten, heavy, sandy tracks on the
virgin ground. Hazel remained silent for some time. She was almost afraid to
speak. Yet she wanted to. She wanted to talk to Gordon's father. She wanted to
tell him of the mean trick she was playing upon him, for, under the influence of
his steady eyes and the knowledge that he was Gordon's father, a great surge of
shame was stirring in her heart which made her hate herself. For some time the
man gazed about him interestedly. Then, as they lost themselves among the wooden
frame dwelling-houses, he breathed a deep sigh of content and drew out one of
those extravagant cigars which Gordon had not tasted for so many weeks. "Say,
will smoke worry you any, young lady?" he inquired kindly. Hazel was thankful
for the opportunity of a cordial reply. "Why, no," she cried. Then on the
impulse she went on, "I just love the smell of smoke where men are." She laughed
merrily. "I guess men without smoke makes you feel they're sick in body or
conscience." Gordon's father laughed in his quiet fashion as he lit his cigar.
"That way I guess folks of the Anti-Tobacco League need to start right in and
build hospitals for themselves." The girl nodded. "Anti-Tobacco?" she said.
"Why, 'anti' anything wholesomely human must be a terrible sick crowd. I'd hate
to trust them with my pocket-book, and, goodness knows, there's only about ten
cents in it. Even that would be a temptation to such folks." Again came the
millionaire's quiet laugh. "That's the result of the healthy life you folks live
right out here in the open sunshine," he said, noting the pretty tanning of the
girl's face. "I don't guess it's any real sign of health, mentally or
physically, when folks have to start 'anti' societies, eh?" "No, sir," replied
the girl. "Did you ever know anybody that was really healthy who started in to
worry how they were living? It's just what I used to notice way back at college
in Boston. The girls that came from cities were just full of cranks and notions.
This wasn't right for them to eat, that wasn't right for them to do. And it
seemed to me all their folks belonged to some 'anti' society of some sort. If
the 'anti' wasn't for themselves it was for some other folks who weren't worried
with the things they did or the way they lived. It just seems to me cities are
full of cranks who can run everything for other folks and need other folks to
run everything for them. It's just a sort of human drug store in which every
med'cine has to be able to cure the effects of some other. Out here it's
different. We got green grass and sunshine, the same as God started us with, and
so we haven't got any use for the 'anti' folks." "No." James Carbhoy had
forgotten the journey and its object. He was only aware of this fresh, bright
young creature beside him. He stirred in his seat and glanced about him from a
sheer sense of a new interest, and in looking about he became aware of a
horseman riding on the same trail some distance behind them. "You said Boston
just now," he said curiously. "You were educated in Boston?" Hazel nodded. "Yes,
my poppa sent me to Boston. He just didn't reckon anything but Boston was good
enough. But I was glad to be back here again." The millionaire would have liked
to question her more closely as to how she came to be driving a team at
Slosson's command. He had no great regard for his agent outside of business, But
somehow he felt it would be an impertinence, and so refrained. Instead, he
changed the subject. "How far out are the coalfields?" he inquired. "About five
miles." The memory of her purpose swept over the girl again, and her reply came
shortly, and she glanced back quickly over her shoulder. As she did so she
became sickeningly aware that two horsemen were on the trail some distance
behind them. How she wished she had never undertaken this work! "I suppose
there's quite a town there now?" was the millionaire's next inquiry. "Not a
great deal, but there's comfortable quarters the other side of it. It's going to
be a wonderful, wonderful place, sir, when the railroad starts booming it."
Hazel felt she must get away from anything approaching a cross-examination. "I
don't just get that," said Carbhoy evasively. "Well, it's just a question of
depot. You see, there's coal right here enough to heat the whole world. That's
what folks say. And when the railroad fixes things so transport's right, why,
everybody 'll just jump around and build up big commercial corporations, and--
there'll be dollars for everybody." "I see--yes." "Mr. Slosson is working that
way now," the girl went on. Then she added, with a shadowy smile, "That's why he
couldn't get in to meet you, I guess." "He must be very busy," said the
millionaire dryly. "However, I'm glad." And Hazel turned in time to discover his
kindly smile. Carbhoy gazed about him at the open plains with which they were
surrounded. The air, though hot, was fresh, and the sunlight, though brilliant,
seemed to lack something of that intensity to be found in the enclosed streets
of a city. He threw away his cigar stump, and in doing so he glanced back over
the trail again. He remained gazing intently in that direction for some moments.
Then he turned back. "I guess those fellers riding along behind are just prairie
men," he said. Hazel started and looked over her shoulder. There were four men
now riding together on the trail. They were steadily keeping pace with her team
some two hundred yards behind. It was some moments before the man received his
answer. Hazel was troubled. She was almost horrified. "Yes," she said at last,
with an effort. "They're just prairie men." Then she smiled, but her smile was a
further effort. "They're pretty tough boys to look at, but I'd say they're all
right. Maybe you're not used to the prairie?" The millionaire smiled. "I've seen
it out of a train window," he said. "Through glass," said Hazel. "It makes a
difference, doesn't it? It's the same with everything. You've got to get into
contact to--to understand." "But there hasn't always been glass between me and--
things." Hazel's smile was spontaneous now as she nodded her appreciation. "I'm
sure," she said. "You see, you're a millionaire." Carbhoy smiled back at her.
"Just so." This girl was slowly filling him with amazement. "It's real plate-
glass now," Hazel went on. "And plate-glass sometimes gets broken." "Yes, I
s'pose it does. But you can fix it again--being a millionaire." "Yes----"

The millionaire broke off. There was a rush of hoofs from behind. The horsemen
were close up to them, coming at a hard gallop. Carbhoy turned quickly. So did
Hazel. The millionaire's eyes were calmly curious. He imagined the men were just
going to pass on. Hazel's eyes were full of a genuine alarm. She had known what
to expect. But now that the moment had come she was really terrified. What would
Gordon's father do? Had he a revolver? And would he use it? This was the source
of her fear. It was a breathless moment for the girl. It was the crux of all
Gordon's plans. She was the center of it. She, and these men who were to execute
the lawless work. She was given no time to speculate. She was given no time but
for that dreadful wave of fear which swept over her, and left her pretty face
ghastly beneath its tanning. A voice, harsh, commanding, bade her pull up her
team, and the order was accompanied by a string of blasphemy and the swift play
of the man's gun. "Hold 'em up, blast you! Hold 'em, or I'll blow the life right
out o' you!" came the ruthless order. At the same time James Carbhoy was
confronted with a gun from another direction, and a sharp voice invited him to
"push his hands right up to the sky." Both orders were obeyed instantly, and as
Hazel saw her companion's hands thrown up over his head a great reaction of
relief set in. She sat quite still and silent. Her reins rested loosely in her
lap. She no longer dared to look at her companion. Now that all danger of his
resistance was past she feared lest an almost uncontrollable inclination to
laugh should betray her. She kept her eyes steadily fixed upon these men, every
one of whom she had known since her childhood, and to whom she fully made up her
mind she intended to read a lecture on the subject of the use of oaths to a
woman, sometime in the future. As she watched them her inclination to laugh grew
stronger and stronger. They had carried out their part with a nicety for detail
that was quite laudable. Each man was armed to the teeth, and was as grotesque a
specimen of prairie ruffianism as clothes could make him--the leader
particularly. And he, in everyday life, she knew to be the mildest and most
quaintly humorous of men. But his work was carried out now without a shadow of
humor. He looked murder, or robbery, or any other crime, as he ordered her out
of the driving seat, and waited while she scrambled over the back of the seat to
one of those behind with a movement well-nigh precipitate. Then, at a sign, one
of the other men took her place, and, at another short command to "look over"
the millionaire, the same man proceeded to search Gordon's father for weapons.
The production of an automatic pistol from one of his coat pockets filled Hazel
with consternation at the thought of the possibilities of disaster which had
lain therein. But the four assailants gave no sign. Their work proceeded swiftly
and silently. The millionaire's feet were secured, and he was left in his seat.
Then, under the hands of the man who had replaced Hazel, the journey was
continued with the escort beside and behind the vehicle. As they drove on Hazel
wondered. Her eyes, very soft, very regretful, were fixed on the iron-gray head
of the man in the front seat. She registered a vow that if he were hurt by the
bonds that held his ankles fast some one was going to hear about it. Now that
the whole thing was over and done with she felt resentful and angry with anybody
and everybody--except the victim of the outrage. She was even mad with herself
that she had lent assistance to such a cruel trick. But the millionaire gave no
sign. Hazel longed to know something of his feelings, but he gave neither her
nor his assailants the least inkling of them for a long time. At last, however,
a great relief to the girl's feelings came at the sound of his voice, which had
lost none of its even, kindly note. "Say," he observed, addressing the ruffian
beside him, who was busily chewing and spitting, "you don't mind if I smoke, do
you?" Then Hazel made a fresh vow of retribution for some one as the answer
came. "You can smoke all the weed you need," the man said, with a fierce oath,
"only don't try no monkey tricks. You're right fer awhile, anyways, if you sit
tight, I guess, but if you so much as wink an eye by way of kickin', why, I'll
blow a whole hurricane o' lead into your rotten carcase." It was a long and
weary journey that ended somewhere about midnight. Nor was it until the teamster
drew up at the door of a small, squat frame house that James Carbhoy's bonds
were finally released. He was thankful enough, in spite of his outward display
of philosophic indifference. He knew that he was the victim of a simple "hold-
up," and had little enough fear for his life. The matter was a question of
ransom, he guessed. It was one of those things he had often enough heard of, but
which, up to now, he had been lucky enough to escape. He only wondered how it
came about that these "toughs" had learned of his coming. He felt that it must
have been Slosson's fault. He must have opened his mouth. Well, for the time, at
least, there was little to do but hope for the best and make the best of things
generally. He was given no option now but to obey. His captors ordered him out
of the wagon in the same rough manner in which they ordered Hazel. And the
leader conducted them both into the house. There was a light burning in the
parlor, and the millionaire looked about him in surprise at the simple comfort
and cleanliness of the place. He had expected a mere hovel, such as he had read
about. He had expected filth and discomfort of every sort. But here--here was a
parlor, neatly furnished and with a wonderful suggestion of homeness about it.
He was pleasantly astonished. But the leader of the gang was intent upon the
business in hand. He turned to Hazel first and pointed at the door which led
into the kitchen. "Say, you!" he cried roughly. "You best get right out wher'
you'll belong fer awhiles. We ain't used to female sassiety around this layout,
an' I don't guess we need any settin' around now. Say, you'll jest see to the
vittles fer this gent an' us. Ther's a Chink out back ther' what ain't a
circumstance when it comes to cookin' vittles. You'll see he fixes things right
--seein' we've a millionaire fer company. Get busy." Hazel departed, but a wild
longing to box the fellow's ears nearly ruined everything. There certainly was a
reckoning mounting up for some one. The moment she had departed the man turned
his scowling, repellent eyes upon his male prisoner. "Now, see here, Mister
James Carbhoy. I guess you're yearning for a few words from me. Wal, I allow
they're goin' to be mighty few. See?" he added brutally. "I ain't given to a
heap of talk. There's jest three things you need to hear right here an' now. The
first is, it's goin' to cost you jest a hundred thousand dollars 'fore you get
into the bosom o' your family again. The second is, even if you got the notion
to try and dodge us boys, you couldn't get out o' these mountains without
starvin' to death or breakin' your rotten neck. You're jest a hundred miles from
Snake's Fall, and ninety o' that is Rocky Mountains an' foothills. You ain't
goin' to be locked in a prisoner here. There ain't no need. You can jest get
around as you please--in daylight--and one of the boys 'll always be on your
track. At night you're just goin' to stop right home--in case you lose yourself.
The third is, if you kick any or try to get away--well, I don't guess you'll try
much else on this earth. The room over this is your sleep-room, an' I guess you
can tote your baggage right there now. So long." Without waiting for a reply the
man beat a retreat out through the front door, which he locked behind him with
considerable display. Once outside, the man hurried away round to the back of
the house, where, to his surprise, he found Hazel waiting for him. She addressed
him by name in a sharp whisper. "Bud!" she commanded. "Come right here!" Then,
as the man obeyed her, she led him silently away from the house in the direction
of the corrals. Once well out of earshot of the house she turned on him. "Now
see here, Bud," she cried. "I've had all I'm yearning for of you for the next
twenty-four years. Now you're going to light right out back to the ranch right
away, and don't you ever dare to come near here again--ever. My! but your
language has been a disgrace to any New York tough. I've never, never heard such
a variety of curse words ever. If I'd thought you could have talked that way I'd
have had you go to Sunday school every Sunday since you've been one of our
foremen." "'Tain't just nothin', Miss Hazel," the man deprecated. "I ken do
better than that on a round-up when the boys get gay. Say, it just did me good
talkin' to a multi-millionaire that way. I don't guess I'll ever get such a
chance again." "That you won't," cried Hazel, smiling in the darkness, in spite
of her outraged feelings. "But I acted right, Miss," protested the man. "I don't
guess he'd have located me fer anything but a 'hold-up.' Say, we'd got it all
fixed. We just acted it over. I was plumb scared he'd shoot, though. You never
can tell with these millionaires. I was scared he wouldn't know enough to push
his hands up. Say, we'd have had to rush him if he hadn't, an' maybe there'd
have been damage done." Hazel sighed. "There's enough of that done already. Say,
you're sure you didn't hurt his poor ankles. You see," she explained, "he's Mr.
Gordon's father." The man began to laugh. "Say, don't it beat all, Miss Hazel,
stealin' your own father? How 'ud you fancy stealin' Mr. Mallinsbee? Gee! Mr.
Gordon's a dandy. He sure is. He's a real bright feller, and I like him. What's
the next play, Miss?" "Goodness only knows," cried Hazel. Then she began to
laugh. "Some harebrained, mad scheme, or it wouldn't be Gordon's. Anyway, you
made it plain I'm to look after the--prisoner?" "Sure. I also told him it would
cost him a hundred thousand dollars before he gets out of here." Hazel nodded
and laughed. "It'll do that." Then she sighed. "It'll take me all my wits
keeping him from guessing I'm concerned in it. I don't know. Well, good-night,
Bud. You're going back to the ranch now. You've only one of the boys here?
That's right. Which is it? Sid Blake?" "Yes, Miss. I left Sid. You see, he's
bright, and up to any play you need. I'll get around once each day. Good-night,
Miss." CHAPTER XX

THE BOOM IN EARNEST

It was late in the evening. The lonely house at Buffalo Point stood out in dim
relief against the purpling shades of dusk. At that hour of the evening the
distant outline of Snake's Fall was lost in the gray to the eastwards. South,
there were only the low grass hillocks, now blended into one definite skyline.
To the westward, the sharp outline of the mountains was still silhouetted
against the momentarily dulling afterglow of sunset. The evening was still, with
that wonderful silence which ever prevails at such an hour upon the open
prairie. A light shone in the window of the hitherto closed office at Buffalo
Point, and, furthermore, a rig stood at the door with a team of horses attached
thereto, which latter did not belong to Mike Callahan. An atmosphere not,
perhaps, so much of secrecy as of portent seemed to hang about the place. The
solitary light in the surroundings of gathering night seemed significant. Then
the team, too, waiting ready to depart at a moment's notice. But above all,
perhaps, this was the first time a sign of life had been visible in the house
since the closing down at the moment when Slosson's sudden plunge into the real
estate world of Snake's Fall had apparently swept all rivalry from his
triumphant path. Of a truth, a portentous moment had arrived in the affairs of
those interested in Buffalo Point. And the significance of it was displayed in
the earnest faces of the four men gathered together in the office. Silas
Mallinsbee sat smoking in his own armchair, and with a profound furrow of
concentration upon his broad forehead. His usually thrusting chin-beard rested
upon the front of his shirt by reason of the intent inclination of his great
head. Mike Callahan was seated on a small chair his elbows resting upon his
parted knees, and his chin supported upon the knuckles of his locked fingers.
His eyes were intently fixed upon the desk, behind which Gordon was frowning
over a sheet of paper, upon which the scratching of his pen made itself
distinctly audible in the silence. Peter McSwain, the fourth conspirator, was
still suffering from a fictitious heat, and was comfortably, but wakefully,
snoring under its influence, with a sort of nasal ticking noise which
harmoniously blended with the scratching of Gordon's pen. It was fairly obvious
that the work Gordon was engaged upon was the central interest of all present,
for every eye was steadily, almost anxiously, riveted upon the movement of his
pen. After a long time Gordon looked up, and a half smile shone in his blue
eyes. "Give us a light, some one," he demanded, as he turned his sheet of paper
over on the blotting-pad, and drew his code book from an inner pocket and laid
it beside it. Mike Callahan produced and struck the required match. He held it
while Gordon re-lit his half-burned cigar, which had gone out under the pressure
of thought its owner had been putting forth. "Good," the latter exclaimed, as
the tobacco glowed under the draught of his powerful lungs. Then he turned the
paper over again. "Guess I got it fixed. I haven't coded it yet, but I'll read
it out. It's to Spenser Harker, my father's chief man." "Cancel all previous
arrangements made through Slosson for Snake's Fall. Take following instructions.
Have bought heavily at Buffalo Point, which is right on the coal-fields. Depot
to be built at once at Buffalo Point. Make all arrangements for dispatch of
engineers and surveyors at once. There must be no delay in starting a boom. My
son, Gordon, is here to represent our interests. Put this to the general manager
of the Union Grayling and Ukataw, and yourself see no delay. Am going on to
coast on urgent affairs. Gordon has the matter well in hand and will control at
this end. This should be a big coup for us. "JAMES CARBHOY." As Gordon finished
reading he glanced round at his companions' faces through the smoke of his
cigar. Mike was audibly sniggering. Mallinsbee's eyes were smiling in that
twinkling fashion which deep-set eyes seem so capable of. As for Peter McSwain,
from sheer force of habit he drew forth a colored handkerchief and mopped his
grinning eyes. "You ain't going to send that?" he said incredulously. "Why not?"
"But--that piece about yourself?" grinned Mike. "You darsen't to do it." "I
think I get his point," nodded Mallinsbee, his broad face beaming admiration.
"Sort of local color, I guess." Gordon twisted his cigar from one corner of his
mouth to the other. His blue eyes were shining with a sort of earnest amusement.
His sharp white teeth were gripping the mangled end of his cigar firmly. "Say,
fellows," he said, after a moment's thought, "I'm kind of wondering if you get
just what this thing means to me. It just needs a sum in dollars to get its
meaning to you. But for me it's different. I need to make dollars, too. But
still it's different. You see, some day I've got to sit right in my father's
chair, and run things with a capital of millions of dollars. But before I do
that I've got to get right up and convince my father I can handle the work
right. He doesn't figure I can act that way--yet. So it's up to me to show him I
can. Well, I've started in, and I'm going to see the game through to the end.
I've backed my wits to push this boat right into harbor safe. And in doin' that
I've got to squeeze the biggest financier in the country. When I've done it
right, that financier will know he can hand over his particular craft to my
steering without fear of my running it on the rocks. The dollars I need to make
out of this are just a circumstance. They are the outward sign of my fitness for
my father's edification. That piece about my representing my father isn't just
local color either. I actually intend to assume that character, and, from now
on, I intend to work direct with headquarters, ordering the whole transaction
for the railroad myself in _my own name_. Do you get me? From now on I _am_ my
father's representative. If Spenser Harker chooses to come right along here, if
the general manager of the Union Grayling chooses to come along, I shall meet
them, and insist that the work goes through. You see, I am my father's son, I am
still his secretary, and they have word in private code _from my father_ that I
represent him. There can be no debate. All they know of me is that I left New
York on confidential work for my father. Well, this, I guess, is the
confidential work. Gentlemen, we've simply got to sit right back and help
ourselves to our profits. And while we're doing that, why, I guess the dear old
dad is taking his well-earned vacation in the hills, while David Slosson is
feeling a nasty draught through the chinks in an old adobe and log shack which I
hope will blow the foul odors out of his fouler mind. You can leave the after
part of this play safely in my hands. Meanwhile, if you'll just give me five
minutes I'll code this message. Then we'll drive right into town and send it
over the wire." Sunday in an obscure country hotel on the western plains is
usually the dullest thing on earth. The habit of years is a whitewash of
respectability and a moderation of tone, both assumed through the medium of a
complete change of attire from that worn during the week. There is nothing on
earth but the loss by fire, or the definite destruction of them, which will stop
the citizen, who possesses such things, from arraying himself in a "best suit."
It is the outward sign of an attempted cleansing of the soul. There can be no
doubt of it. That suit is not adjusted for the purpose of holiday enjoyment.
That is quite plain. For each man is as careful not to do anything that can
destroy the crease down his trousers, as he is not to sit on the tails of his
well-brushed Prince Albert coat. The day is spent in just "sitting around." The
citizen will talk. That is not calculated to spoil his suit. He will even write
his mail after a careful adjustment of the knees of his trousers. He will sneak
into the bar by a back door to obtain an "eye-opener." This, again, will involve
no great risk to his suit. Then he will dine liberally off roast turkey and pie
of some sort. If the hotel is fairly well priced he will even get an ice-cream
with his midday dinner. In the afternoon he will again sit around and talk. He
may even venture a walk. Then comes the evening supper. It is the worst function
of a dreary day--a meal made up of cakes, preserves, tea or coffee, and any cold
meats left over during the week. After that the "best suits" somehow seem to
fade out of sight, and a generally looser tone prevails. Such had been the
Sundays in Snake's Fall since ever the town had boasted an hotel with boarding
accommodation. No guest had ever dared to break through the tradition. It would
have required heroic courage to have done so. But now changes in the town were
rapidly taking place. So rapidly, indeed, that the times might well have been
characterized as "breathless." On this particular Sunday a perfect revolution
was in progress. Amongst the older inhabitants who managed to drift to the
vicinity of the hotel a feeling of unreality took possession of them, and they
wondered if it were not some curious and not altogether pleasant dream. The
hotel was thronged with a blending of strangers and townspeople, clad,
regardless of the day, in a state of excitement such as might only have been
expected at the declaration of a world war, or a presidential election. It was
the culmination of the excitement inspired originally by the news of Slosson's
defection, and which, in the course of less than a week, had been augmented by
happenings in swift and rapid succession, such as set sober business men
wondering if they were living on a volcano instead of a coalmine, or if the days
of miracles had indeed returned upon the world. Well before the excitement over
Slosson had died down it became known that the Buffalo Point interests were at
work again. Mallinsbee's office was opened once more. Furthermore, he had
acquired two clerks, and was securing others from down east. This was more than
significant. It attracted every eye in the new direction. Men strove to solve
the question with regard to its relationship to Slosson's going. The thought
which promptly came to each mind was that Slosson's going was less a miracle
than a natural disappearance. His wild buying had inspired doubt from the first.
The man had gone crazy, and his employers had turned him down. So he had bolted.
The opening of Buffalo Point warned them that the railroad had in consequence
come to terms with Mallinsbee. So there had been a fresh rush for information in
that direction. But this rush received no encouragement and less information,
and the sorely tried speculators were once more flung back into their own outer
darkness. Then came the next, the culminating excitement. The news drifted into
the place from outside sources. It came from agents and friends in the east.
Surveyors and engineers and construction gangs were about to be sent to _Buffalo
Point_! The news was quite definite, quite decided. It was more. It was
accompanied by peremptory orders and urgent requests that those who were on the
spot should get in on the Buffalo Point township without a moment's delay, and
price was not to hinder them. Had it been needed, there were no two people in
the whole of Snake's Fall better placed for the dissemination and exaggeration
of the news than Peter McSwain at the hotel and Mike Callahan at the livery
barn. Nor were they idle. Nor did they miss a single opportunity. In the office
of the hotel, while service was on at the little church, and all the womenfolk
and children were singing their tender hearts out in an effort to get an
appetite for Sunday's dinner, Peter was the center of observation amidst a crowd
of bitterly complaining commercial sinners, each with his own particular ax to
grind and a desperate grievance against the crooks who were rigging the land
markets in the neighborhood for their own sordid profit. He was holding forth,
debating point for point, and, as he would have described it himself, "boosting
the old boat over a heavy sea." Some one had suggested that Buffalo Point had
been in league with Slosson to hold up the situation, while the former completed
their own arrangements to the detriment of the community. Peter promptly jumped
in. "Say, youse fellers are all sorts of 'smarts,' anyway," he said, with a
pitying sort of contempt. "What you need is gilt-edged finance. You're scared to
death pulling the chestnuts out o' the fire. You're mostly looking for a
thousand per cent. result, with only a five per cent. courage. That's just about
your play. What's the use in settin' around here talking murder when the plums
are lyin' around? Pick 'em up, I says. Pick 'em right up an' get your back teeth
into 'em so the juice jest trickles right over your Sunday suits. They're there
for you. Just grab. I'm tired of talk. The truth is, some o' youse feelin'
you've burnt your fingers over Slosson. Slosson was the railroad's agent. Your
five per cent. minds saw the gilding in following Slosson. When he skipped out
with my team you were stung bad. You've got stakes in Snake's, while you're
finding out now the railroad ain't moved that way. An' so you're just scared to
death to show the color of your paper till you see the depot built and the
locomotives passing this place ringing a chorus of welcome for Buffalo. Then
where are you? You're going to pay sucker prices then, or get right back east
with a big debit for wasted board and time. I'm takin' a chance myself, and it
ain't with any five per cent. courage. I got a big stake in both places, and I
don't care a continental where they build the depot." Mike Callahan was talking
in much the same strain in the neighborhood of his barn, which somehow always
became a sort of Sunday meeting-place for loungers seeking information. But
Mike, acting on instructions, went much further. He spoke of the reports of the
movements of the railroad's engineers and surveyors. He assured his hearers he
had had definite word of it himself, and then added a hint that started
something in the nature of a panic amongst his audience. "It ain't no use in
guessing," he said from his seat on an upturned bucket at the open door of his
barn. "I ain't got loose cash to fling around. Mine is just locked right up in
hossflesh and rigs, so I ain't got no ax needs sharpening. But I drive folks
around and I hear them yarning. I drove a crowd out to Mallinsbee's place--the
office at Buffalo Point yesterday. They were guests of his. They were talkin'
depots and things the whole way. Say, ever heard the name of Carbhoy? Any of
youse?" Some one assured him that Carbhoy was President of the Union road, and
Mike winked. "Jest so," he observed. "As sure as St. Patrick drove the snakes
out of Ireland, one of that gang was called 'Carbhoy.' I heard one of 'em use
the name. And I heard the feller called 'Carbhoy' tell him to close his map. Not
just in them words, but the sort of words a millionaire might use. That gang are
guests of Mallinsbee. Wher' they are now I can't say. I didn't drive 'em back."
It was small enough wonder that the conflagration of excitement fairly swallowed
up the town of vultures. The Buffalo Point interests intended it to do so. Nor
could their agents have been better selected. They were established citizens who
came into contact with the whole floating population of the place. They were
above suspicion, and they just simply laughed and talked and pushed their
pinpricks home, preparing the way for the _denouement_. On the Monday following,
the effect of their work began to show itself. Amongst other visitations
Mallinsbee was invaded by a deputation representing large real-estate interests.
Under Gordon's management the office had been entirely converted. Now the
original parlor office had been turned over to the use of the clerical staff.
The bedroom Gordon had occupied had become Mallinsbee's private office, and the
other bedroom had been made into an office for Gordon himself. There was no
longer any appearance of a makeshift about the place. It was an organized
commercial establishment ready for the transaction of any business, from
battling with a royal eagle of commerce down to the plucking of the half-fledged
pigeon. The deputation arrived in the morning, and consisted of Mr. Cyrus P.
Laker and Mr. Abe Chester. These two men represented two Chicago real-estate
corporations who were prepared to shed dollars that ran into six figures in a
"right" enterprise. The rancher had been notified of their coming, and had sat
in consultation with Gordon for half an hour before their arrival. When the
clerk showed them into Mallinsbee's private office they found him fully
equipped, with his hideous patch over one eye, and Gordon sitting near by at a
small table under the window. Abe Chester overflowed the chair the clerk set for
him, and Laker possessed himself of another. They were in sharp contrast, these
two. One was lean and tall, the other was squat and breathed asthmatically. But
both were men of affairs, and equal to every move in a deal. The tall man opened
the case, with his keen eyes searching the baffling face of the rancher. Just
for one moment he had doubtfully eyed Gordon's figure, so intently bent over his
work, but Mallinsbee had reassured him with the words, "My confidential
secretary." Mr. Laker assumed an air of simple frankness. "Our errand is a
simple one, Mr. Mallinsbee," he began in hollow tones which seemed to emanate
from somewhere in the region of his highly shined shoes. Then he smiled vaguely,
a smile which Gordon mentally registered as being "childlike," as he observed it
out of the corners of his eyes. "We are looking for two little pieces of
information which you, as a business man, will appreciate as being a justifiable
search on our part. You see, we are open to negotiating a deal of several
hundred thousand dollars, of course depending on the information being
satisfactory." "There's several rumors afloat that maybe you can confirm or
deny," broke in Abe Chester shortly. His _confrere's_ "high-brow" methods, as he
termed them, irritated him. "Just so," agreed Laker suavely. "Two rumors which
affect the situation very nearly. The first is, is it a fact that the President
of the Union Grayling and Ukataw Railroad is your guest at the present moment?
The second is, there is a rumor afloat that the railroad company are actually
preparing to build their depot here. Is this so?" Mallinsbee's expression was
annoyingly obscure. Mr. Laker felt that he was smiling, but Abe Chester was
convinced that a smile was not within a mile of his large features. Both men
were agreed, however, that they distrusted that eye-patch. Gordon awaited the
rancher's reply with amused patience. It came in the rumbling, heavy voice so
like an organ note, after a duly thoughtful pause. "Well, gentlemen," he said,
with the air of a man who has bestowed a weight of consideration upon his
answer, "you have put what a legal mind maybe 'ud consider 'leading' questions.
Not having a legal mind, but just the mind of an _honest_ trader, I'll say they
certainly are _some_ questions. However, it don't seem to me they'll prejudice a
thing answering 'em straight. You are yearning to deal--well, so am I; an' if my
answer's going to help things that way, why, I thank you for asking. Mr. Carbhoy
is my guest at this moment. How long he'll remain my guest I can't just say. You
see, he's going along to the coast when we're through fixing things right for
Buffalo Point. That answers your first question, I guess. The second's even
easier. The railroad's engineers will be right here with plans and
specifications and materials and workers for building the depot at Buffalo Point
on _Wednesday noon_." Abe Chester drew a short asthmatical breath. His leaner
companion smiled cadaverously. "Then it will give us both much pleasure to talk
business," said the latter. "Sure," agreed Chester, sparing words which cost him
so much breath, of which he possessed such a small supply. Mallinsbee pushed
cigars towards them. He felt the occasion needed their moral support. "Help
yourselves, gentlemen," he said. "Guess it'll make us talk better. There's a
whole heap of talk coming." The two men helped themselves, tenderly pressing the
cigars and smelling them. The rancher took one himself, with the certainty of
its quality, and lit it. "A lot to talk about?" inquired Mr. Laker, not without
misgivings. "Why, yes." The rancher pulled deeply at his cigar and examined the
ash thoughtfully. "Yes," he went on after a moment, "I guess I'll have to say
quite a piece before you talk money. You see, I'd just like you to understand
the position. It's perhaps a bit difficult. This scheme has been lying around
quite a time, inviting folks to put money into it at a profitable price to
themselves. A number of wise friends of mine have taken the opportunity and are
in, good and snug. There's a number of others hadn't the grit. Maybe I don't
just blame them. You see, it was some gamble, and needed folks who could take a
chance. Wall, those days are past. There's no gamble now. It's as good as
American double eagles. You see, Snake's will just become a sort of flag
station, while Buffalo Point will sit around in a halo of glory with a brand-new
swell depot. It's been some work handling this proposition, and the folks
interested, including the Bude and Sideley Coal Company, need a deal of
compensation for their work. Personally, I am not selling a single frontage now
until the depot is well on the way. In short, I need a fancy price. In
conclusion, gentlemen, let me say quite plainly that what I would have sold
originally for three figures will now, or rather when the time comes, cost four
--and maybe even five." "You mean to shut us out," snapped Abe Chester. "Is it
graft?" inquired Laker, with something between a sneer and anger. "Call it what
you like," said Mallinsbee coldly. "I've told you the plain facts, as I shall
tell everybody else. Those who want to get in on the Buffalo Point boom will
have to pay money for it--good money. I think that is all I have to say,
gentlemen." CHAPTER XXI

A TRIFLE

Few men were less given to dreaming than James Carbhoy. Usually he had no spare
time on his hands for such a pastime. Dreams? Well, perhaps he occasionally let
imagination run riot amidst seas of amazing figures, but that was all. All other
dreams left him cold. Now it was different. He was reclining in an old-fashioned
rocker chair outside the front door of his prison. The air of the valley was
soft and balmy, the sun was setting, and a wealth of ever-changing colors tinted
the distant mountain-tops; a wonderful sense of peace and security reigned
everywhere. So, somehow, he found himself dreaming. He filled the chair almost
to overflowing and reveled in its comfort, just as he reveled in the comfort
even of his prison. His hands were clasped behind his iron-gray head, and he
drank deeply of the pleasant, perfumed air. His captivity had already exceeded
three weeks, and the first irritation of it had long since passed, leaving in
its place a philosophic resignation characteristic of the man. He no longer
strove seriously to solve the problem of his detention. During the first days of
his captivity he had thought hard, and the contemplation of possible disaster to
many enterprises resulting from this enforced absence had troubled him
seriously, but as the days wore on and no word came from his captors his
resignation quietly set in, and gradually a pleasant peace reigned in place of
stormy feelings. James Carbhoy possessed a considerable humor for a man who
spent his life in multiplying, subtracting and adding numerals which represented
the sum of his gains and losses in currency, and perhaps it was this which so
largely helped him. His temperament should undoubtedly have been at once harsh,
sternly unyielding and bitterly avaricious. In reality it was none of these
things. It was his lot to cause money to make money, and the work of it was
something in the nature of an amusement. He was warm-hearted and human; he loved
battle and the spirit of competition. Then, too, he possessed a deplorable love
for the knavery of modern financial methods. This was the underlying temperament
which governed all his actions, and a warm, human kindliness saved him from many
of the pitfalls into which such a temperament might well have trapped him. As he
sat there basking in the evening sunlight he felt that on the whole he rather
owed his captors a debt of gratitude for introducing him to a side of life which
otherwise he might never have come into contact with. He knew at the same time
that such a feeling was just as absurd as that the spirit of fierce resentment
had so easily died down within him. All his interests were dependent upon his
own efforts for success, and here he was shut up, a prisoner, with these very
affairs, for all he knew, going completely to the dogs. His conflicting feelings
made him smile, and here it was that his humor served him. After all, what did
it matter? He knew that some one had bested him. It was not the first time in
his life that he had been bested. Not by any means. But always in such cases he
had ultimately made up the leeway and gained on the reach. Well, he supposed he
would do so again. So he rested content and submitted to the pleasant
surroundings of his captivity. There was one feature of his position, however,
which he seriously did resent. It was a feature which even his humor could not
help him to endure with complacency. It was the simple presence of a Chinaman
near him. He cordially detested Chinamen--so much so that, in all his great
financial undertakings, he did not possess one cent of interest in any Chinese
enterprise. Hip-Lee was maddeningly ubiquitous. There was no escape from him. If
the millionaire's fellow prisoner, the pretty teamstress, entered his room to
wait on him--and their captors seemed to have forced such service upon her--Hip-
Lee was her shadow. If he himself elected to go for a walk through the valley--a
freedom accorded him from the first--there was not a moment but what a glance
over his shoulder would have revealed the lurking, silent, furtive figure in its
blue smock, watchful of his every movement, while apparently occupied in
anything but that peculiar form of pastime. James Carbhoy resented this
surveillance bitterly. Nor did he doubt that beneath that simple blue smock a
long knife was concealed, and, probably, a desire for murder. However, nothing
of this was concerning him now. The hour was the hour of peace. The perfection
of the scene he was gazing upon had cast its spell about him, and he was
dreaming--really dreaming of nothing. The joy of living was upon him, and, for
the time being, nothing else mattered. In the midst of his dreaming the sound of
a footstep coming round the angle of the building to his right roused him to
full alertness. He glanced round quickly and withdrew his hands from behind his
head. Mechanically he drew his cigar-case from an inner pocket and selected a
cigar. But he was expectant and curious, his feelings inspired by his knowledge
that Hip-Lee always moved soundlessly. His eyes were upon the limits of the
house when the intruder materialized. Promptly a wave of pleasurable relief
swept over him as he beheld the pretty figure of his fellow captive. But he gave
no sign, for the reason that the girl was obviously unaware of his presence, and
it yet remained to be seen if the yellow-faced reptile, Hip-Lee, was at hand as
usual. He watched her silently. He was struck, too, by her expression of rapt
appreciation of the scene before her, which added further to his reluctance to
break the spell of her enjoyment. But as the hated blue smock did not make its
appearance, the man could no longer resist temptation. The opportunity was too
good to miss. "It's some scene," he said in a tone calculated not to startle
her, his gray eyes twinkling genially. But Hazel was startled. She was startled
more than she cared about. Her one object was always to avoid contact with
Gordon's father, except under the watchful eyes, of Hip-Lee. She feared that
keen, incisive brain she knew to lie behind his steady gray eyes. She feared
questions her wit was not ready enough to answer without disaster to the plans
of her fellow conspirators. She hated the part she was forced to play, but she
was also determined to play it with all her might. She must act now, and act
well. So, with a resolute effort, she faced her victim. "I--I just didn't know
you were here, sir," she said truthfully, while her eyes lied an added alarm.
"But--but talk low, or the----"

"You're worrying over that mongrel Chink," said Carbhoy quickly. "I expected to
see his leather features following you around. I guess he's got ears as long as
an ass, and just about twice as sharp. Say, I'm going to kill that mouse-colored
serpent one of these times if he don't quit his games. Say----"

He broke off, studying the girl's pretty face speculatively. There was no doubt
her eyes wore a hunted expression--she intended them to. "They treating you--
right?" he demanded. Hazel's effort was better than she knew as she strove for
pathos. "Oh, yes, I s'pose so," she said hopelessly. "I'm let alone, and--I get
good food. It--it isn't that." "What is it?" The man's question came sharply.
Hazel turned her face to the hills and sighed. The movement was well calculated.
"It's my folks." Then, with a dramatic touch, "Say, Mr. Carbhoy, do you guess
we'll ever--get out of this? Do you think we'll get back to our folks? Sometimes
I--oh, it's awful!" Her words carried conviction, and the man was taken in.
"Say," he said quickly, "I'm making a big guess we'll get out later--when things
are fixed. This is not a ransom. But it means--dollars." He lit his cigar, and
its aroma pleasantly scented the air. Hazel sighed with intense feeling--to
disguise her inclination to laugh. "Yes, sir," she said hopelessly. "One hundred
thousand dollars." Gordon's father smiled back at her. "I'd hate to think I was
held up for less," he said. "It would sort of wound my vanity." The girl could
have hugged him for the serenity of his attitude. Nothing seemed to disturb him.
She felt that Gordon had every reason for his devotion to his father, and ought
to be well ashamed of himself for submitting him to the outrage which had been
perpetrated. "Who--who do you think has done this?" she hazarded hesitatingly.
"Slosson?" "Maybe. Though----"

"Slosson should have met you himself," the girl declared emphatically. "He
certainly should," replied Carbhoy, with cold emphasis. "He'll need to explain
that--later. Say, how did you come to be driving me?" Hazel suddenly felt cold
in the warm air. "I was just engaged to, because Mr. Slosson couldn't go
himself. You see, father has a spare team, and I do a goodish bit of driving.
You see, we need to do 'most anything to get money here." "Yes, that's the way
of things." The man's eyes were twinkling again, and Hazel began to hope that
she was once more on firm ground. Nor was she disappointed when the man went on.
"I guess we're all out after--dollars," he said reflectively. Then he removed
his cigar and luxuriously emitted a thin spiral smoke from between his pursed
lips. "It don't seem the sort of work a girl like you should be at, though.
Still, why not? It's a great play--chasing dollars. It's the best thing in life
--wholesome and human. I've always felt that way about it, and as I've piled up
the years and got a peek into motives and things I've felt more sure that
competition--that's fixing things right for ourselves out of the general scrum
of life--is the life intended for us by the Creator." Hazel nodded. "Life is
competition," she observed, with a wise little smile. "Sure. That's why human
nature is dishonest--has to be." There was a question in the girl's eyes which
the millionaire was prompt to detect. "Sure it's dishonest. Can you show me a
detail of human nature which is truly honest? Say, I've watched it all my life,
I've built every sort of construction on it. Wherever I have built in the belief
that honesty is the foundation of human nature things have dropped with a smash.
Now I know, and my faith is none the less. Human nature is dishonest. It's only
a question of degree. I'm dishonest. You're dishonest. But in your case it's
only in the higher ethical sense. You wouldn't steal a pocket-book. You wouldn't
commit murder. But put yourself into competition with a girl friend baking a
swell layer cake, calculated to disturb the digestion of an ostrich. Say, you'd
resort to any old trick you could think of to fix her where you wanted her."
Hazel laughed. "I wouldn't shoot her up, but--I'd do all I knew to beat her."
"Just so." "After what's happened to us here I guess human nature isn't going to
find a champion in me," Hazel went on. "Still, it's pretty hard to lose your
faith in human nature that way." "Lose? Who said 'lose'?" cried the man, with a
cordial laugh. "Not I. If I suddenly found it 'honest,' why, I'd hate to go on
living. Human nature's got to be just as it is. Honesty lies in Nature. That's
the honesty that folks talk about and dream about. It isn't practicable in human
life. Dishonesty is the leavening that makes honesty, in the abstract,
palatable. Say, think of it--if we were all honest like idealists talk of. What
would we have worth living for? Do you know what would happen? Why, we'd all be
sitting around making hymns for everybody else to sing, till there was such an
almighty hullabaloo we'd all get crazy and have to sign a petition to get it
stopped. We'd all be fixed up in a sort of white suit that wouldn't ever need a
laundry, and every blamed citizen would start right in to turn the world into a
sort of hell by always telling the truth. Just think what it would mean if you
had to tell some friend of yours what you thought of her for sneaking your
latest beau." "It certainly would be liable to cause a deal of trouble," laughed
Hazel. "Trouble? I should say." The millionaire chuckled softly as he returned
his cigar to his mouth. "Say, I was reading the obituary of a preacher--my
wife's favorite--the other day. He lost his grip on life and fell through. That
reporter boy was bright, and I wondered when I was reading what he'd have said
if he'd spoke the truth as he saw it. To read that obituary you'd think that
preacher feller was the greatest saint ever lived. I felt I could have wept over
that poor feller, the talk was so elegant and poetic. I just felt the worst worm
ever lived beside that preacher. I felt I ought to spend the last five dollars I
had to fix his grave up with pure white lilies, if I had to go without food to
do it. It was fine. But the writer never said a word about that preacher living
in a swell house in Fifth Avenue, and the $20,000 he took every year for his
job, and the elegant automobile he chased around to the houses of his rich
congregation in. If he'd died in the slums on the east side I guess that
newspaper wouldn't ever have heard of him, and that writer wouldn't have got
dollars for the pretty language it was his job to scratch together for such an
occasion." "It doesn't sound nice put that way," sighed Hazel. "I suppose it's
all competition even trying to make folks live right. I suppose that preacher
was successful in his calling--the same as you are in yours. I suppose his human
nature was no different to other folks'." "That's it. Life's splendidly
dishonest and a perfect sham. Come to think of it, Ananias must have been all
sorts of a great man to be singled out of a world of liars. On the other hand,
he'd have had some rival in the feller who first accused George Washington of
never lying. Psha! life's a great play, and I'd hate it to be different from
what it is. We're all just as dishonest as we can be and still keep out of
penitentiary: which makes me feel mighty sorry for them that don't. From the
fisherman to the Sunday-school teacher we're all liars, and if you charged us
with it we'd deny it, or worse, and thereby add further proof to the charge.
I've thought a deal over this hold-up, and it seems to me those guys bluffed us
some." "You mean about the--ransom," said Hazel, the last sign of amusement
dying swiftly out of her eyes. "Why, yes." The millionaire smoked in silence for
some moments. Then quite suddenly he removed the cigar from between his lips.
"Maybe you don't know I'm working on a big land scheme in these parts. It seems
to me some bright gang intend to roll me for my wad. I don't guess Slosson's in
it." "Then who is it, sir?" demanded the girl, with unconscious sharpness. The
man's steady eyes surveyed her through their half-closed lids. He shook his
head. "I can't just say--yet. We'll find out in good time." His smile was
quietly confident. "Anyway, for the moment some one's got the drop on me, and
I'll just have to sit around. But--it's pretty tough on you, Miss--Miss----"

"Mallinsbee," said Hazel, without thinking. "Mallinsbee?" The man's gray eyes
became suddenly alert, and Hazel felt like killing herself. She believed, in
that one unguarded moment, she had ruined everything. She held her breath and
turned quickly towards the setting sun, lest her face should betray her. Then
her terror passed as she heard the quiet, kindly laugh of the man as he began
speaking again. "Well, Miss Mallinsbee, here we are, and here we've just got to
stay. I came here to get the best of a deal. We're all out to do some one or
something, somehow or somewhere. It don't much matter who. And when a man acts
right he don't squeal when the other feller's on top. He just sits around till
it's his move, and then he'll try and get things back. I'm not squealing. It's
my turn to sit around--that's all. Meanwhile, with the comforts at my disposal--
good wines, good cigars and mountain air--I'm having some vacation. If it
weren't for that darned Chink with his detestable blue suit I'd----"

"Hush!" Hazel had turned and held up a warning finger. In response the man
glanced sharply about him. There, sure enough, standing silent and immovable at
the corner of the building, was the hated vision of blue with its crowning
features of dull yellow. James Carbhoy flung himself back in his rocker. All the
humor and pleasure had been banished from his strong face, and only disgust
remained. "Oh, hell!" he exclaimed, and flung his cigar with all his force in
the direction of the intruder. CHAPTER XXII

ON THE TRAIL

It was a night to remember, if for nothing else for the exquisite atmospheric
conditions prevailing. The moon was at its full, like some splendid jewel
radiating a silvery peace upon a slumbering world. The jeweled sky suggested the
untold wealth of an infinite universe. The perfumed air filled lungs and
nostrils with a beatific joy in living, and the darkened splendor of the
crowding hills inspired a reverence in the human heart so profound, that it left
scarce a place for the smallness of mundane hopes and yearnings. The splendor,
the breadth of beauty sank into the human soul and left the spirit straining at
its earthly bonds, and gazing with longing towards the infinite power which
ordered its existence. For ten miles of the journey from the old ranch-house
Hazel rode under the sublime influence of feelings so inspired. Nothing of the
conditions were new to her. The mountain nights in summer were as much a part of
her existence as was the ranching life of her home. She knew them as she knew
the work that filled her daylight hours. But their effect upon her never varied
--never weakened. No familiarity with them could change that feeling of the
infinite sublimity somewhere beyond the narrow confines of human life. She drank
in the deep draughts of perfect life, she gazed abroad with shining eyes of
simple happiness on the splendid world, and a superlative thankfulness to the
Creator of all things that life had been thus vouchsafed her uplifted her heart
and all that was spiritual within her. The journey to her home was twenty miles,
but her favorite mare possessed wings so far as its mistress was concerned. The
distance was all too short for the splendid young body, and that youthful mood
of delight. Hazel reveled in the expenditure of the energy required, as the
mare, beneath her, seemed to revel in the physical effort of the journey. For
the greater part of the road the cobwebs of affairs she was engaged upon left
Hazel indifferent. The delight of life left no room for them. But after the half
way had been passed there came to her flashes of thought which reduced her
feelings to a more human mood. Nor was that mood of the easiest. She experienced
feelings of disquiet, even alarm. She felt vexed, and a great resentment, and
even genuine anger, began to take possession of her. But these were interspersed
with moments when a certain irresponsibility and humor would not be denied, and
underlying all and every other emotion was a great passionate longing, which she
scarcely admitted even to herself. Her mind was fixed upon two men: father and
son. For the time at least, they were the pivot of all things worldly for her.
In her thoughts the son possessed attributes little short of a demi-god, while
the father had become a being endowed with a deep, reflected regard. There was
room in her woman's heart for both in their respective places. She knew she
loved them, and her variations of mood were inspired by the cruelly farcical
atmosphere of the position surrounding them both. She was angry with Gordon,
bitterly angry at one moment, at the next she reveled in the exquisite impudence
of his daring. At one moment her woman's tender pity went out to the big-hearted
man who had been submitted to such indignities by his own son and herself, and
all those concerned in the conspiracy, and, at the next, she found herself
smiling at the humor of his attitude towards his persecutors. Then, too, over
all these complications of feeling she was stirred with alarm at that painful
memory of the unguarded moment, when, lulled by her interest in the
millionaire's talk, she had admitted her name to him. Visions of hideous
possibilities rose before her eyes. If he should chance to know her father's
name. Why not? Surely he knew. But after that one sharp interrogation he had
given no sign. She sighed a sort of half-hearted relief, but remained
unconvinced. It was this last contingency which had inspired her night journey
home. She had ridden out the moment she had been certain that their captive had
retired for the night. There were still some eight miles to go before the ranch
would be reached when Hazel experienced a fright, which left her ready to turn
and flee back over the way she had come as swiftly as the legs of her mare could
carry her. On clearing a bluff of spruce, around which her course lay, in the
full radiance of the moon's high noon, she suddenly beheld a horseman riding
towards her, a ghostly figure moving soundlessly over the high grass. Such was
the effect of this vision upon her, that, beyond being able to bring her mare to
an abrupt halt, panic left her paralysed. In all her years she had never
encountered a horseman riding late at night in the mountains. Who was he? Who
could he be? And an eerie feeling set her flesh creeping at the ghostliness and
noiselessness of his coming. She sat there stupidly, her pretty cheeks ashen in
the moonlight. And all the time the man was coming nearer and nearer, traveling
the same trail she would have done had she pursued her course. Then an abject
terror surged upon her. He must meet her! In an instant her paralysis left her,
and she gathered her reins to turn her mare about. But the maneuver was never
effected. She had suddenly recognized the horse the man was riding. It was
Sunset. The next moment she further recognized the broad shoulders of the man in
the saddle, and a glad cry broke from her, and she urged her mare on to meet
him. "Gordon!" she cried, in a world of delight and relief as she came up with
him. "You, Hazel?" came the joyous response of her ghostly visitor. "You just
scared me all to death," protested the girl, as the big chestnut ranged up
beside her. "I did?" Gordon was smiling tenderly down at the pretty figure, so
fascinating in the moonlight as it sat astride the brown mare. "My, but I
thought--I--oh, I don't know what I thought. But what are you doing around--
now?" The girl was smiling happily enough. Even in the silver of the moonlight
it was obvious that the color had returned to her cheeks. "I was going to ask
you that," returned Gordon. "But I guess I best tell you things first." Then he
began to laugh. "I was coming out to see you, but--not you only. Say, I'm just
the weakest conspirator ever started out to trap a mouse. Look at me. Say, get a
good look. It isn't the sort of thing you'll see every time you open your eyes.
I was sick to death feeling the old dad was shut up a prisoner, and I felt I
must get along, even if it was only just to get a peek, and be sure he wasn't
suffering." Hazel's eyes were tenderly regarding the great creature in the
bright moonlight. She had been so recently angry at this son's heartless action,
that his expression of contrition made her feel all the more tender towards him.
"He's in bed, and--I'd guess he's snoring elegantly by now," she said, with a
smile. "I--I waited to start out till he was in bed." Then her eyes met his.
"What were you coming to--see me for?" The direct challenge very nearly
precipitated matters. Gordon had excuses enough for seeing her, but only one
real purpose. He hesitated before replying. "We've made good," he said at last,
by way of subterfuge, and the girl drew a deep breath of joyous content. "You've
--made--good?" she questioned, more in the way of reassuring herself than
desiring a reply. Gordon moved his horse so that she could turn about. "Let's go
back to the--prison," he said, his words charged with the excited delight
stirring within him. "Yes, we've made good." The girl turned her mare about and
the two moved on the way she had already come, side by side. "Listen, while I
tell you. Say, I could sort of shout it around the hill-tops--if they weren't so
snowy and cold. Snake's Fall is just a surging land market for us at Buffalo.
There are real estate offices opening everywhere, and everybody you meet on the
sidewalk is a broker of some sort. The Bude and Sideley folk turned their
holdings loose directly we got the surveyors and engineers of the railroad up,
and the folks all jumped. Then the men at Snake's, who held in ours, followed
suit. But your father, bless him, held tight. The boom fairly rose to a shriek,
and we've been fighting to sit tight, and let the prices go up skywards. Then we
had a meeting, and your father loosened up a bit. Just to keep the spurt on.
Meanwhile I've handled things down east, and kept the wires singing. The
railroad have started a great advertising campaign at my orders. The coal
company, too, are talking Snake's Fall, and Buffalo Point. In a month there'll
be such a rush as only America, and this continent generally knows how to make.
Even now sites are changing hands at ridiculous prices. Meanwhile I've got the
railroad busy. Already ten construction trains have come through, and they've
started on the new depot." He drew a deep sigh of satisfaction. Then in a sort
of shamefaced manner he went on. "But I've had to weaken in the old dad's
direction. I can't make good and leave him out all together. You see, that play
of Slosson's in Snake's will have to be made good, and my father will have to
make it that way. So I've got your father to give me a six months' option on a
stretch of land adjoining the coalpits which he hadn't ceded to the Bude people.
You see, if there's coal there it'll put my father right with the game, and we
shan't have hurt him any. Meanwhile things will go on, and we'll have to keep
the old dad for another month. Then I sell, and----"

"You'll have won out," broke in Hazel, her eyes shining in the moonlight. Then a
shadow crossed her face. "But when your father knows what you've done? What
then?" Gordon seemed to consider his reply carefully. "You can leave that to me,
Hazel," he said at last, with a whimsical smile. "There's surely got to be a
grand finale to this, and when it comes I'll still need your help. Say, why were
you riding in to the ranch--at dead of night?" The abrupt question shocked the
girl out of her delighted content. The memory of her trouble came overwhelmingly
upon her. But Gordon was waiting. "You're making good, but I've made pretty
bad," she said, thrusting a desire to burst into tears resolutely from her. "I'm
just every sort of fool and I--don't know how much damage I haven't done.
Everything's gone right until this evening. Hip-Lee has just been as near
perfect as a Chinaman can be. We've carried out all our plans right through, and
I've never been near your father without Hip-Lee looking on. That is--until this
evening." The girl sighed. The confession of her blundering was hard to make.
"It was this way," she went on presently. "Your father was out walking. I hadn't
seen him return. I was in the kitchen fixing his supper, and it was sticky hot,
and I just hated the flies, so I went out for a breath of air. Hip-Lee had been
playing his spy game on your father. Well, I just stood out front of the house
taking a look at the hills, and wishing I was amongst their snows, when your
father spoke. He had got back, and was sitting outside the house, and, maybe,
like me he was yearning for that snow. Well, I just couldn't run away--so we
talked. I guess we'd talked quite awhile, and I'd kind of forgotten things, and
in the middle of his talk he started to address me by my name, and got as far as
'Miss.' Then, without a thought, I spoke my name. He just seemed startled, but
never said a word about it, and now I'm worried to death. Was there ever
such----"

The girl broke off, and it seemed to Gordon, in spite of her attempted smile,
she was very near tears. Instantly he smothered his own feelings of alarm at her
story and endeavored to console her. He laughed, but in Hazel's hyper-sensitive
condition of anxiety, his laugh lacked its usual buoyancy. "That's nothing to
worry over," he said. "I'd say if your name had meant anything to him he
wouldn't have given you breathing time before you'd learned a heap of things
that wouldn't have sounded pretty. Dad's no end of a sport, but when he gets a
punch, and the fellow who gives it him don't vanish quick, he's got a way of
hitting back mighty hard. I don't guess that break's going to figure any in our
play. He never said a word?" "Not a word." Hazel tried to take comfort, but
still remained unconvinced. "Anyway what could he do?" Gordon remained serious
for some moments. Then his eyes lit again. "Not a thing," he said emphatically,
and Hazel knew he meant it. For some time they rode on in silence, and thought
was busy with them both. Hazel was thinking of so many things, all of which
somehow focussed round the man at her side, and her ardent desire to obey his
lightest commands in the schemes of his fertile brain. Gordon had dismissed
every other thought from his mind but the delightful companionship of this ride,
which had come all unexpectedly. The girl's mare led slightly, and the sober
chestnut kept his nose on a level with her shoulder, and thus Gordon was left
free to regard the girl he loved without fear of embarrassment to her. But
somehow Hazel was not unaware of his regard. A curious subconsciousness left her
with the feeling that her every movement was observed, and a pleasant, excited
nervousness began to stir her. She hastily broke the silence. "You said you'd
still need my help when--the grand finale came," she demanded. "Sure," came the
prompt reply. Then very slowly the man added; "I can't do anything without your
help--now." The girl glanced round quickly. "You mean--with your father a
prisoner?" The man's smile deepened, and his blue eyes gazed thoughtfully,
ardently, into the hazel eyes, which, in a moment, became hidden from him. "I
don't think I meant--quite that," he said. The girl offered no reply, and the
man went on. "You see, we have become sort of partners in most everything,
haven't we? I don't seem to think of anything without you being in it." Then he
laughed, a little nervous laugh. "I don't try to either. Say, I went out to the
cattle station, and had a look at Slosson the other day. The boys have got him
pretty right, and--I felt sorry for him." "Why?" Hazel asked her question
without thinking. She somehow felt incapable of thought just now. She felt like
one drifting upon some tide which was beyond her control, and the only guiding
hand that mattered was this man's. Gordon gave one of his curious short laughs,
which might have meant anything. "I don't know," he said. Then: "Yes, I do
though. Think of a fellow who's had his business queered, who's staked a big
gamble and lost, not only that, but the girl he's crazy about, and meanwhile is
rounded up in a shack that wouldn't keep a summer shower out, and seems as
though it was set up on purpose by some crazy genius as a sort of playground for
every sort of wind ever blew. Say, if I lost my partner now, I'd----  Guess our
partnership ought to expire in a month. This play will be through then." "Yes."
With all her desire to talk on indifferently, Hazel could find no word to add to
the monosyllable. She was trembling with a delightful apprehension she could not
check. And somehow she had no desire to check it. This man was all powerful to
sway her emotions, and she knew it. The moments were growing almost painful in
the tenseness of her emotions. "Another month. It's--awful for me to think of."
"Is it?" The inanity of her remark would have made Hazel laugh at any other
time. Now, it passed her by, its meaninglessness conveying nothing with the
submerging of her humor in the sea of stronger emotions. Gordon urged his horse
to draw level with the mare. Then he deliberately drew it down to a walk on the
rustling grass, and Hazel followed his example without protest. All about them
was the delicate silver tracery of the moonlight through the trees. The warmth
of the perfumed night air possessed a seductiveness only equaled by the night
beauties of the scene about them. It was such a moment when the most timorous
lover must become emboldened, and emulate the bravest. But Gordon knew no
timidity. His only fear was for failure. Had he realized the tumult which his
words had stirred within this girl's bosom he might well have flung all
hesitation to the winds. As it was he threw the final cast with all the strength
of his virile, impetuous nature. "Another month. Must it end then, Hazel?" He
reached out and seized, with gentle firmness, the girl's bridle hand. "Must it?
Say, can't it be partners--for life?" His eyes were very tender, but their humor
was still lurking in their depths. He leaned towards her and the girl's hand
remained unresistingly in his. "D'you know, dear, I sort of feel to-night I'd
like to have a dozen Slossons standing around waiting, while I scrapped 'em all
in turn for you. Maybe that don't tell you much. It can't mean anything to you.
It means this to me. It means I just want to be the fellow who's got to see to
it that life runs as smooth as the wheels of a Pullman for you. It means I don't
care a thing for anything else in the world but you, not even this play we're at
now. I guess I just loved you the day I first saw you, and have gone on loving
you worse and worse ever since, till I don't guess there's any doctor, but
having you always with me, can save me from an early grave." Somehow the two
horses had come to a standstill. Nor were they urged on. "I just want you,
Hazel, all the time," Gordon went on, more and more tenderly. "You'll never get
to know how badly I want you. Will you--shall it be--partners--always?" The girl
was gazing out over the moonlight scene so that Gordon could see nothing of the
light of happiness shining in her pretty eyes. All he knew was the trembling of
the hand he still held in his. Then, suddenly, while he waited, he felt the
girl's other hand, soft, warm, full of that quiet strength which he knew to be
hers, close over his, and a wild thrill swept through his whole body. "Is it
'yes'?" he demanded, with a passionate pressure of his hand, and a great light
burning in his eyes. "Mine! Mine! For--as long as we live?" The girl still made
no verbal reply, but she bowed her head and gently raised his hand, and tenderly
pressed it to her soft bosom. In an instant she lay crushed in his arms while
the two horses, with heads together, seemed lost in a friendly discussion of the
extraordinary proceedings going on between their riders. What they thought about
them was apparently on the whole favorable, for presently, with mute expressions
of good will, their handsome heads drew apart and lowered significantly. The
next moment they were enjoying a pleasant siesta, such as only a four-footed
creature can accomplish standing without risk to life and limb. Half an hour
later they were wide awake and full of bustling activity. The closed heels on
their saddle cinchas warned them that even lovers' madness has its limits of
duration, and that the practical affairs of life must inevitably become
paramount in the end. So they answered the call, and raced down the trail in the
cool of the night. CHAPTER XXIII

IN NEW YORK

Mrs. James Carbhoy had endured anything but a happy time for several weeks. She
had received no news from her beloved son; her husband had spirited himself away
on business and left her without a word of definite information as to his
whereabouts; while even the trying presence of her young daughter was denied
her, since she had been forced to dispatch that personification of childish
willfulness to their estate at Tuxedo, that she might be put through a course of
disciplining by her various governesses. She was alone, she reminded herself not
less than three times a day, and to be alone in her great mansion at Central
Park was the limit of earthly punishment as she understood it. She detested it.
She hated the hot summer landscape of the park; she was worried to death by the
chorus of automobile hooters as the cars sped up and down the great asphalt way;
she felt that the red-and-white stone palaces with which she was surrounded were
the ugliest things ever hidden from blind eyes, and an army of servants could
be, and was, the most nerve-racking thing she had ever been called upon to
endure. For two peas she would pack a bag--no, her maid would have to pack it;
she was denied even that pleasure--and hie herself to Europe. This was something
of the condition of mind to which she was reduced, when one morning two events
happened almost simultaneously which changed the whole aspect of things, and
created in her something approaching a desire to continue the dreary monotony of
life. The first was the advent of her mail, with a long letter from her son
_dated at Buffalo Point_, and the second was an urgent request from her
husband's manager, Mr. Harker, desiring permission to wait upon her, as he had
the most encouraging news from the long-lost Gordon and her husband's affairs
generally. Gordon's mother did not read her son's letter at once. She saw the
heading and glanced at the opening paragraph. The satisfaction so inspired
caused her to set it aside for careful perusal after her breakfast. Mr. Harker
would be up to see her at about eleven o'clock. That would give her ample time
to have digested its contents before he arrived. For the first time in weeks she
ate an ample breakfast at her customary early hour. She further forgot to make
her maid's life a burden during the process of dressing, and she even enjoyed
glancing over the advertisements of the daily newspapers. Then came the hour of
seclusion in her boudoir when she yielded herself to the perusal of her boy's
letter. "BUFFALO POINT,   Near Snake's Fall. "DEAREST MUM:

"It seems so long since I sent you any mail, and I seem to have so much news to
tell you, and I've so completely forgotten what I have already told you, that I
hardly know where to begin. However, you'll see by the heading of this letter I
am at Buffalo Point, and am glad to say I have received a visit from the dear
old Dad, who is just as happy as any man of his devotion to work can be--on
vacation. His visit to me here has placed me in a position of great trust in his
affairs in the neighborhood, and I am very proud that, through my own efforts, I
have been so placed. After this I feel that the dear old Dad will never have
cause to question my ability in dealing with big affairs. I feel he will
acknowledge that the seed of his example has really fallen on fruitful soil, and
that, after all, perhaps I shall yet prove a worthy son of a great father.
"This, I guess, brings me to the discussion of a subject which has kind of
interested me some these last days. It is the modern understanding of filial
duty. I s'pose even such a duty changes in its aspect, as everything else seems
to change, with the passage of time. Chasing around in the dark days of pre-
civilized times filial duty seemed pretty clearly marked. One of the first
duties of a son was, when his mother wasn't around to claim the privilege, to
get in the way when his father wanted to hit something with his club. He was
also kind of handy as a sacrifice, either well broiled or minced into fancy
chunks, to make his father's Gods feel good and get benevolent. Then he was
mighty useful doing chores around the home, so his father didn't have to do more
work than it took him filling his stomach with Saurian steaks and Pterodactyl
cutlets, and getting drunk on a sort of beer, which his wife had contracted the
habit of making for him in the intervals between being laid out cold with a
stone club. "There don't seem to be much doubt about those days. A son's filial
duty lasted just as long as his father could enforce it with physical
discipline. When he couldn't do it that way any longer, then the son and father
generally made a big talk together, and whatever odds and ends of the father
could be collected at the finish of the pow-wow were handed over to some local
soup kitchen to make stock. "Then the son usually took a wife, and so the same
old play went on. "With variations and moderations these things seem to have
gone on, on some such general lines, right down to our present day. In some
grades of present-day life I don't think there's such a heap of change as you'd
guess. The conditions prevail, only the weapons and things are different.
However, that's by the way. The thing that requires careful study is how far
filial duty is justified. "Filial duty is a pretty arbitrary thing when a man
who can really think looks into it. I maintain that obligation is too much
imposed upon offspring. I contend they don't owe a thing to their parents. It's
the parents who owe to the offspring. This may shock you, but I hope you will
put all personal feeling aside and regard it in the nature of an academic
discussion. First of all, the fact of life is dependent upon the whim of parents
to impose it. It is not a thing which a child owes gratitude for. Say, take a
feller who can't swim, tie half a ton of lead around his neck and boost him into
a whirlpool full of rocks and things, and ask him for gratitude. I'm open to
gamble when he gets his breath he won't say a thing--not a thing--about
gratitude. Maybe he'll remember every other emotion ever given to erring
humanity, but I don't guess he'd be able to spell the word gratitude, let alone
talk it. "We'll pass the subject of life for the moment. We've got it. We didn't
want, but we got. And all the kicking won't alter it. Now filial duty demands
obedience, and parents start right in from the first to make a kid's life a
burden that way. Say, we'll take that whirlpool racket again. It's like two
folks standing high and dry on a rock above it, and firing stones all around the
poor darned fool struggling to win out. It don't matter which way he turns he's
headed off with a rock dropped plumb ahead of him. Those rocks are labeled
'obey.' Say, after about twenty years of dodging those rocks parents 'll tell
that feller of all they did for him in his youth, and say he's ungrateful just
because he's learned enough sense to realize his parents are fools, anyway, and
ought to be petrified mummies in a public museum. "One of the worst sins of
parents toward children is the fact that as soon as they take to sitting around
in rockers, and their hinges start to creak when they get up, they don't ever
seem to remember the time when their joints didn't have to make queer noises.
When folks get that way they reckon it's the duty of all offspring just to sit
around and gape in fool credulity, while they tell 'em what wonderful folk their
parents--used to be, and how they--the children--if they lived a century, could
never hope to be half as wonderful. A really bright kid generally hopes that for
once his parent is talking truth. I say it with all respect that the gentlest,
most harmless, most inoffensive father would resort to any subterfuge to have
his son think he could lick creation if he fancied that way; and there isn't a
woman so almighty plain but what she'll contrive to get her daughters--while
they're still children--crazy enough to believe she was the beauty of her
family, and that all their good looks are due to her side of the matrimonial
contract. "Of course, it isn't a desirable thought to picture your mother
playing at holding hands in dark corners with fellers who never had a hundred-
to-one chance of being your father; also it isn't just pleasant to speculate on
the tricks she had to play to get your father to the jumping-off mark; neither
do you care to dwell on what she thought of the chorus girls your father was in
the habit of buying wine for, and decorating up with fancy clothes and jewels in
his spare moments. You don't feel it's a nice thing to think of the numbers of
times some one else has had to take off your father's boots for him overnight,
and bathe his aching head with ice-water to get him down town in the morning to
his office. But it wouldn't hurt you a thing if parents made a point of
remembering all these things for themselves, and would give up making you quit
playing parlor games during sermon in church on Sundays and inventing your own
words to the hymn tunes. "Now let's jump to what I call the breaking-point of
filial duty. It's the point when a kid gets old enough to master the inner
meaning of the expression 'damn fool,' which has probably been liberally applied
to him for years. It's the moment when physical discipline can no longer obtain
for--physical reasons. It's the point when two real live men, or two real live
women, face each other with a contentious situation lying between them. Where
does obligation lie? Does it remain--anyway? "In Nature it does not. In human
nature it remains--chiefly because of undue sentimentalism. Now sentimentalism
should be a luxury, and not a law. This is obvious to any mind not suffocated by
the gases of decadence. I'd like to say Nature's laws are sane and just, and,
since they are inspired by a great and wise Providence, it's not reasonable to
guess they can be improved upon by a psalm-smiting set of folks, who spend their
whole lives in wrapping 'emselves around with cotton batten to keep out the
wholesome draughts of Nature's lungs. "So I feel that when the breaking-point of
filial duty is reached it is no longer mother and daughter, father and son, in
the practicalities of life. Take commerce. Father and son are in competition.
Each is fighting for his own. How far is a son justified in emptying an
automatic pistol into his father's food depot, when that mistaken parent guesses
he's yearning to storm his son's stronghold of commercial enterprise? How far is
that father justified in doping his son's liquor, so he won't lie awake at
nights planning to roll him for his wad next morning? Take a daughter and her
momma. Most mothers act as though they had to live all their lives with their
daughters' husbands. And most daughters act as though they preferred their
mommas should. I ask: how far has a mother right to butt in to run her
daughter's home doings, and so muss up for some one else what she was never able
to do right for herself? Why shouldn't a daughter be allowed to make her own
mess of things, and later on, when she collects sense, clean it up again the
best she knows? "These are questions in my mind. These are questions I don't
just seem able to answer right myself, and sort of feel they'd have given old
Sol some insomnia, in spite of all his glory over the baby episode he made such
a song about. Well, I put 'em down here, and maybe you can tell me about 'em,
and, anyway, they make some problem. "Maybe I haven't set out my news to the
best advantage, but my mind is very busy with fixing things as they should go.
You see, I'm working hard in the old Dad's interest, and am hoping soon to get
that little word of approval from him which means so much, coming from so great
a man. I am looking forward to seeing you again soon, and hope to see your dear,
smiling face and pretty eyes just as bright and happy as I always remember them.
Give my love to our Gracie, and tell her that the only way to get rid of those
peculiarly spindle lower legs, which have always been one of her worst physical
defects, is to adopt ankle exercises. It's a defect, like many others in her
character, which can be improved with conscientious effort and patience. "Your
loving son,   "GORDON. "P.S.--Your future daughter-in-law is just crazy to be
taken into your motherly fold. "G."

Mr. Harker's face was wreathed in smiles at the thought of the pleasant news it
was his good fortune to be conveying to the wife of his chief. His smile
remained until he heard the trim maid's announcement at the door of Mrs.
Carbhoy's boudoir. Then the smile vanished, as though it had never been, and his
well-nourished features became an assortment of troubled bewilderment.
Furthermore, within five minutes of his ushering into the lady's presence he had
registered a solemn vow that celibacy should remain his lot, until the day that
saw his ample remains become a subject for cooking operations by the crematorium
experts. Mr. Harker was certainly unfortunate in his selection of the moment at
which to pay his call. Mrs. James Carbhoy had had half an hour since reading her
son's letter, in which to pursue that hateful hyphenated word "daughter-in-law"
through every darkened channel of her somewhat limited mental machinery.
Daughter-in-law! It was everywhere. She could not lose sight of it. She could
not escape its haunting meaning. It pursued her wherever she went. It was there,
lurking amidst the folds of her gowns if she peered inside the great hanging
wardrobes. It danced like a will-o'-the-wisp in every mirror which her troubled
eyes chanced to encounter. It was interwoven with the patterns of the carpets;
and the wall-paperings found a lurking-place for it amidst the unreal foliage
which adorned them. It laughed at her when she angrily turned away to avoid it,
and when she endeavored to defy it its mocking only increased. So it was that
the unoffending Harker encountered the full tide of her angry alarm and maternal
despair. Mr. Harker had prepared a well-turned opening for his excellent news.
But it was never used. Even as his lips moved to speak they remained sealed,
held silent by the bitter cry of outraged maternal pride. "He's married!" she
cried. "Married--and I--I have never been consulted!" Mr. Harker felt as though
he had been caught up in the whirl of a physical encounter in which his opponent
held all the advantage. Mrs. Carbhoy waited for no comment. She rushed headlong,
following up her advantage, smashing in "lefts" and "rights" indiscriminately.
"It's disgraceful--terrible! The ingratitude of it! After all his father and I
have done for him! To think how we've always guided and taught him! The callous
selfishness! The moment he's out of our sight--this--this is what happens. He's
picked up with some wicked, designing female, whose father's certain to be a--a
--gaolbird--or, anyway, ought to be. Not a word to a soul. We--we don't know who
she is--or--or what. He don't even say her name. Daughter-in-law! It's--it's----
Mr. Harker, I'm just wondering when I'll come over all crazy." Mr. Harker
welcomed the pause. "You say Mr. Gordon's married?" he demanded incredulously.
"Yes--no. That is, he--he says 'your future daughter-in-law'!" Mr. Harker
breathed a deep relief and strove to smile confidence upon his chief's wife.
"Ah, yes. Mr. Gordon was always one for the girls. But he wouldn't make a fool
of himself that way----"

In a moment the second round of the battle was raging. "Fool? Fool? Every man's
a fool, if some woman chooses!" cried Mrs. Carbhoy, and promptly hurled herself
into a bitter tirade against her sex, sparing no race of monsters from likeness
to it. Mr. Harker was forced to submit from sheer inability to compete with the
rapid flow of expression. But later on he had his opportunity at what he
considered to be the termination of the "second round," while his opponent
retired to her corner to be fanned by her seconds. "Anyway, ma'am, if he's not
yet married there's still hope. I guess Mr. Carbhoy's wise to what's doing with
him. You see, he's been there with him." "James Carbhoy!" The contemptuous
emphasis on her husband's name opened the "third round," and Mr. Harker felt
that the timekeeper had called "time" before he was ready. For three full
minutes the scornful wife of the millionaire recited an amplified denunciation
upon husbands in general and millionaires in particular. But even so the round
had to come to its natural conclusion, and when they were both resting once more
in their "corners," Mr. Harker achieved something almost approaching success.
"You know, Mrs. Carbhoy, I was feeling pretty good coming along here in my
automobile. Mr. Gordon's something more to me than just your son. We're real
good friends, and I was feeling as anxious for his future as maybe you were.
Well, when I got word from your husband at Snake's saying that he'd turned our
affairs over to Mr. Gordon I was real glad, and I felt now here was the boy's
chance. Then, day after day, along come his instructions, and I saw by the grip
he'd got on things he'd taken his chance, and was pushing it through with as
much smartness as Mr. Carbhoy himself might have shown. I was more than
gratified, ma'am. Why, only to-day I've received word of a big coal option he's
taken for us. As he's got it it's something for nothing. Nobody could have done
better, not even your husband, ma'am. I really can't think there's going to be
any mistakes about--strange females." The man's tribute had a mollifying effect
upon the mother. But she was still the "mother" rather than a creature of logic.
She saw her boy being led to his undoing by some designing creature of her own
sex, and her instinct warned her of the hideous dangers to millionaires' sons
inherent in so guileful a race. "If I could only feel that he was experienced in
the world," she said helplessly. "But what does our poor Gordon know of women?"
Mr. Harker smiled. He was thinking with the intimacy of one man who knows
another. He knew, too, something of the way in which Gordon's money had
generally been spent. "We must hope the best, ma'am," he said, with a
hypocritical sigh. "He's evidently not married, so--what do you intend to do
about it while Mr. Carbhoy is on the coast?" "Do? Do? Why, I shall just go up to
Snake's whatever-it-is, or Buffalo what's-its-name, and--and----"

"I should wait awhile, ma'am, if I were you," Mr. Harker interrupted her,
fearing another outburst. "I'm expecting David Slosson in the city soon. He's
one of our confidential men who's been working up at Snake's for us. I haven't
heard from him for quite a while. He's sure to be along down soon, because he's
got to make a report. Maybe he can tell us just how things are. Anyway, I
wouldn't go up there. It's a queer, wild sort of place, and in no way fit for
you." "Will Slosson be around soon?" "Sure, ma'am." "Then I'll wait," cried the
troubled mother, without cordiality. Then she appealed to the man who had always
been something more than a mere commercial figure in her husband's life. "You
know, if anything went wrong with my boy, Mr. Harker, it would just break my
heart. I--I couldn't bear it. But I tell you right here there's no wretched
female going to play her tricks on our Gordon with me around, and while I've got
James Carbhoy's millions to my hand. And if your man Slosson don't give us
satisfactory news of the boy, then, if Snake's what's-its-name were the worst
place on earth--I should make it." "If it comes to that, ma'am, there are other
folks feel that way, too," said the manager earnestly. "But meanwhile I'd say
don't worry a thing." "I don't!" snapped the mother sharply. "The person who'll
need to do all the worrying is that--female." CHAPTER XXIV

PREPARING FOR THE FINALE

"I'm getting scared, Gordon. Real truth, I am." Hazel was in the saddle. Gordon
had just mounted Sunset. It was the close of a long, arduous, triumphant day for
Gordon, and he was feeling very happy, though mentally weary. The horses moved
off before he made any reply. He had just dismissed Peter McSwain and Mike
Callahan, with whom he had been in close consultation, and Hazel's father was
still within the office to see to its closing for the night and the departure of
the clerical staff. The way lay towards the ranch, and the trail the horses were
taking skirted the new township, now no longer a waste of untrodden grass, but a
busy camp with a strongly flowing human tide. Hazel had come to meet him at her
lover's urgent request, and she was glad enough to get away from the old ranch
house, where the charge of her captive there was seriously beginning to trouble
her. Now she had at last voiced something of those feelings which the rapid
passing of the weeks had steadily inspired. She knew that her peace of mind
demanded some change from this worrying situation. In her loyalty she had
struggled to perform her share in the conspiracy. She knew, too, that she had
succeeded fairly well, and that her efforts were all appreciated to their full.
She had contrived that her lover's father should never know a moment's
discomfort. That his life in captivity should be made as easy and pleasant as
possible. There were no signs that it had been otherwise, but now, seven weeks
had elapsed since his arrival, and what had just seemed a scandalous joke to her
originally, had become a sort of painful nightmare which she was longing to
throw off. The moment she and Gordon were actually alone, she had been impelled
to break the silence which was steadily undermining her nerve. Gordon's horse
was close abreast of the brown mare, and its rider smiled down from his great
height upon the pretty tailored figure of the girl who had become all the world
to him. "I know," he said sympathetically. "It's sort of that way with me, too.
I don't just mean I'm scared. There's nothing for me to be scared about. It's--
sort of conscience with me. As for your father--say"--his smile broadened--"he's
taken to his eye-patch with everybody--me, too. I guess that means he's worried
no end." "What--what are you going to do--then?" Hazel eagerly watched that big,
open, ingenuous face with its widely smiling blue eyes. And, watching it, she
discerned added signs of a growing humor. Finally he laughed outright. "Say,
we're just the limit for a bunch of conspirators. Yes--the limit. You're the
only one of us who's had the moral courage to put your feelings into words.
We're all scared. We've all been scared these weeks. Your father's scared, so he
can't look at any man with two eyes. Peter's all of a shiver every time he comes
within hailing distance of the sheriff. As for Mike--well, Mike's sold all his
holdings, and is bursting to sell his livery business, all but one team, so
he'll have the means of skipping the border at a minute's notice. Say, have you
figured out how we stand? How I stand? Well, from a point of law I guess I'm a
good candidate for ten years' penitentiary. I've kidnapped two men; one's a
dirty dog, anyway, and the other's one of the biggest millionaires in the
country. I've fraudulently played up a railroad. I've started this boom on the
biggest fraud ever practiced. I've--say, ten years! Why, I guess the tally of
this adventure looks to me like twenty in the worst penitentiary to be found in
the country. It--makes me perspire to think of it." He was laughing in a
perfectly reckless fashion, and, in spite of her very real fears, Hazel perforce
found herself joining in. "It's desperate, Gordon," she cried. "And as for you,
who worked it all out, and led it, you--you are the dearest blackguard ever
breathed." Then quite suddenly her eyes sobered, and her apprehension returned
with a rush. "But how long is--it to last? I--I can't go on much longer, and
your father's getting restive and suspicious." Gordon reached down and patted
Sunset's crested neck. "It's finished now. That's why I asked you to come and
meet me. I've sold." "You've sold?" In a moment the last shadow of fear had
passed out of the girl's pretty eyes. Now she was agog with excited admiration.
"Yes." The man nodded. "It had to be done carefully. I've been selling quietly
for days and now it's finished. I didn't get the prices I hoped quite, but that
was because I felt I dared not wait longer to clear up the general mess I'd
made. Your father helped me, and I now sit here with a roll of precisely one
hundred and five thousand dollars, and a definite promise to your father to fix
things with the great James Carbhoy so no trouble is coming to any one--not even
Slosson. I don't know. Now it's all over I'm sort of sorry. You know this sort
of thing--the excitement of beating folks--is a great play. I want to be at it
all the time." "You've got to meet your father yet," said the girl warningly.
"The old dad? Why, yes, I s'pose I have." Gordon chuckled. "Say, I don't wonder
folks taking to crooked ways. They just set your blood tingling like--like a
glass of champagne on an empty stomach. Just look out there." He pointed at the
new township. "Say, isn't it wonderful? All in a few weeks. And all the result
of one man's crookedness." "And your father has been a--prisoner--the whole
time. Over seven weeks," rebuked the girl. "But it's only three weeks since I
met you that night on the trail, Hazel. No other time concerns me. Not even the
dear old dad's captivity. That was the beginning of all things that matter for
me." "You seem to date everything around that--ridiculous episode," said Hazel
slyly. "I----"

"I do." "Don't interrupt me, sir. I was going to assure you that your proper
spirit should be one of contrition for what you have made your father endure."
"It is." "You said you didn't care." "I don't." "Then----"

Gordon burst out into a happy laugh. "Don't you see, dear? I just don't care
for, or think about anything else in the world. You--you--you are just mine, so
what's the use of talking of the old dad." "Really? True? True?" The girl's
tender eyes were melting as they gazed up into her lover's. "More to you than
all--this?" She indicated the busy life on the new township. The miracle, as she
regarded it, which he had worked. The man smiled, his eyes full of a great,
tender love. "I'm glad," the girl sighed. "It isn't always so with men--where
the making of money is concerned, is it?" She breathed a great contentment and
happiness. "Yes, I'm--so glad. It's the same with me, but--I want all this to go
on right--because of you. I want your success. I want your success as a man, and
--with your father. I'm very jealous for those things now. You see, you belong
to me, don't you?" She turned and gazed away across the plain. "Oh, it's good to
see it all--to see all the busy work going on. Look there--and there," she
pointed quickly in many directions. "Buildings going up. Temporary buildings.
The substantial structures to come later. Then the road gangs at work. The
carpenters at the sidewalks. The surveyors. The teams and wagons. Above all,
that depot being built with all expedition by--your father." She laughed happily
and clapped her hands. "It's all growing every day. A mushroom town. And you--
you have made that money your great father dared you to make. Dared you--you,
and you have made it out of him! Oh, dear! the humor of it is enough to make a
cat laugh. Here you, by sheer audacity and roguery, have held up a railroad and
coolly played the highwayman on your own father!" Gordon shook his head. "Call
it grabbing opportunity. It was an opportunity which came my way through the
trifling oversight of forgetting to return the private code book which the old
dad had entrusted to my care. Say, I can never thank the dad enough for that
half-hour talk in his office which sent me out into the wilderness. If he hadn't
handed it to me, I should never have blundered into Snake's; and if I hadn't
blundered into Snake's I shouldn't have found you. I guess my parent's just one
of the few to whom a son owes anything. He gave me life, but didn't stop at
that. He gave me you." Hazel's eyes were smiling happily. "And in return you lay
violent hands on him, and incarcerate him while you do your best to rob him."
"It sounds pretty bad." "If I didn't know you I'd say that gratitude fell out of
your cradle and killed herself when the fairies got around at your birth. But
you didn't ask me to ride all these miles in to--to say just all these nice
things to me, Gordon? Besides, now you've completed your--graft, what about your
poor long-suffering prisoners? How are you going to save us all from the
consequences of your evil ways? Your father will hate me." The girl sighed in
pretended despair. "He'll never consent to--to----"

"Our marriage? Say, if I'm a judge of things I'll have to stand by so he don't
embrace you too often, himself." They both laughed like the two happy children
they were. There was no cloud that could mar the sun of their delight now.
Hazel, for all her fears, had perfect faith in this great reckless creature. She
had never been able to obscure the memory of his battle with Slosson on her
behalf. Her faith was unbounded. So they rode on, leaving the busy new world the
man had created behind them, as they made their way on towards the ranch. They
were leaving everything behind them, the shadows and sunlight of past strenuous
days, which is the way of youth. They gazed ahead towards the future with every
confidence, and lived in a perfect present which contained only their two
selves. It was not until they had nearly reached the ranch, and the wide pasture
stocked with grazing cattle came into view, that the girl was able to pin her
lover down to the urgent matters which lay ahead of him. Then she received from
that simple creature the brief account of his intentions. For a moment she was
staggered. Then, after a brief digestion of the details, she began to laugh. The
rank absurdity and impudence of them took her fancy, and she found herself
caught in the humor of it all, and ready again to carry out his lightest wish.
"It's still the same, you see," Gordon finished up. "I still want you, and your
precious help, the same as I always shall. I just can't do a thing without you,
and as long as you are with me, why, I don't guess failure's got a chance of
getting its nose in front. I've got it all fixed, if you'll play your part. All
I ask is, for the Lord's sake don't start in to laugh at the critical time. I
want you scared to death till I appear, and then you'll just need to chase up an
attack of hysterics or something, throw your heels around and yell blue murder,
and finish up by grabbing me around the neck, and fainting dead away with
happiness. The rest I'll see to. It's some situation for you, but don't worry
when the limelight leaves you in the dark and finds its way to me. It's just the
sort of thing you can find in any old dime novel. The heroines always act that
way, and the hero, too. When you get back, start right in to think about every
dime story you've ever read. Remember all the things the heroines ever did, and
then do 'em all yourself. See? Guess that isn't as clear as it might be, but
when you've filtered it through that bright little head of yours it'll be like
spring water in a moss-grown mountain creek." "Whatever will he say when he
knows?" laughed the girl. "Say? well, that's not an easy guess," retorted
Gordon, with a responsive laugh. "But, anyway, it's dead sure he'll think a heap
more. Say, there's just one thing more. When you come-to out of that joyous
faint, you got to leave us together for half an hour. Maybe you'll have some
sort of preparation to make, or something. Sort of stagger out of the room
supported by me, and if Hip-Lee attempts to butt in during that half hour--kill
him." "You really want me to do--all this?" Hazel's laughing eyes were raised
questioningly. "Everything, but--the killing." "The fainting--really?" "Sure."
The man's eyes opened wide. "It's the picture. It's the reality. It's the local
color." "Oh, dear!" laughed Hazel, as they rode up to the ranch house. "I
suppose I've got to do it." "You will?" Gordon flung himself out of the saddle.
Hazel laughingly held out her hand in assurance. "My hand on it, Gordon, dear,"
she cried. The man seized it in both of his. Then, regardless of what sharp eyes
might be peeping in their direction, he reached up, and, catching her about the
waist, drew her down towards him till her head was level with his, and kissed
her rapturously. "Say, you're the greatest little woman on earth, and--I love
you to death." Hazel hastily drew herself out of his strong arms, and, with
flushed face, straightened herself up in the saddle. "And you are the greatest
and most ridiculous creature ever let loose to roam this world--and I--love you
for it." The man laughed. Hazel's laugh joined in. "Then--to-night?" Hazel
nodded. "Good-by, dear--till to-night." CHAPTER XXV

THE RESCUE

It was nearly midnight. The house was quiet. It was so still as to suggest no
life at all within its simple, hospitable walls. It was in darkness, too, at
least from the outside, for all curtains had been drawn for the night, with as
much care as though it were a dwelling facing upon some busy thoroughfare in a
city. But, late as the hour was, the occupants of the old ranch house were not
in bed. Hazel was awake, and sitting expectantly waiting in her bedroom, while
somewhere within the purlieus of the kitchen Hip-Lee sat before an open window
in the darkness, doubtless dreaming wakefully of some flea-ridden village up
country in his homeland. Upstairs, too, there were no signs of those slumbers
which were so long overdue. Mr. James Carbhoy was seated in a comfortable
rocker-chair adjacent to his dressing bureau, making an effort to become
interested in the "History of the Conquest of Mexico" by the light of a well-
trimmed oil lamp. Not one word, however, of the pages he had read had conveyed
interest to his preoccupied mind. It is doubtful if their meaning had been
conveyed with any degree of continuity. He was irritable--irritable and a shade
despondent. He had been a captive in that valley for over seven weeks, and the
imprisonment had begun to tell upon his stalwart hardihood. Seven long weeks of
his own company, under easy and even pleasant circumstances. Even Hazel's
company, shadowed as she was by the hated Hip-Lee, had been denied him. Had it
been otherwise he might have felt less dispirited, for he liked and admired her;
and, in spite of the fact that on that one memorable occasion when he had talked
to her alone she had betrayed, what he now was firmly convinced was her own
perfidious share in his kidnapping, he was human enough to disregard it, and
only remember that she was an extremely pretty and wholly charming creature.
Yes, he knew now that he had been duped by this daughter of Mallinsbee, whom he
knew owned Buffalo Point, and the whole thing had been a financial coup
engineered by the "smarts" who belonged to his faction. He had solved the whole
problem of his captivity in one revealing flash, the moment he had learned that
this girl was the daughter of Mallinsbee. He had needed no other information.
His keenly trained mind, with its wide understanding of the methods of financial
interests, had driven straight to the heart of the matter. It was only the
details which had been lacking. But even these had, in a measure, been filled in
during his long hours of solitude and concentrated thought. It was some of the
obscured riddles which beset him now, as they had beset him for days. He could
not account for his own confidential agent Slosson in the matter. Had he been
bought over? It seemed impossible, since Slosson had advised the depot remaining
at Snake's Fall, which was against Mallinsbee's interests. Had he been dealt
with, too? It seemed more likely. But if this were so it made the daring or
desperation of the whole coup suggest to his mind that he was dealing with men
of unusual caliber, and consequently the situation possessed for him
possibilities of a most unpleasant character. Then, again, the fact that they
were content to leave him unapproached in his captivity puzzled and disquieted
him even more. What could they achieve with regard to the railroad without his
authority? Nothing, positively nothing, he assured himself. Then what was the
purpose to be served? He could not even guess, and the uncertainty of it all
annoyed, irritated, worried him as the time went on. His mind was full of all
these concerns as he sat reading the romantic story of a people with impossible
names, and so he lost all the beauties of one of the most perfect romances in
the world. Finally, he set the book aside and prepared for bed and more hours of
worried sleeplessness. James Carbhoy was a typical New Yorker of the best type.
In an unexaggerated way he was fastidious of his appearance and gave a careful
regard to his bodily welfare. He was a man who luxuriated in cleanly habits of
living, and his linen was a sort of passion with him. In his captivity he had
been well cared for in this respect, and the only cause he had for complaint was
the absence of his daily bath, which he seriously deplored. Now he went to the
old-fashioned washstand, prepared for his nightly ablutions, and laid himself
out a clean suit of pyjamas. Then he divested himself of some of his upper
garments. He had just started to remove his shirt, and one arm still remained in
its sleeve as he proceeded to remove it coatwise, when all further action was
quite suddenly suspended and he stood listening. A sound had reached his quick
ears, a curious sound which, at that hour of the night, was quite
incomprehensible to him. After some breathless moments he abandoned the
divestment of his clothing and swiftly restored his coat and vest. Then he
extinguished his light and drew the curtains from before the window and opened
it further. He sat down on his bedstead and, resting an elbow on the window-
ledge, gazed out into the starlit, moonless night. The sound which had held his
attention was still evident. It was the sound of galloping horses in the
distance, the soft plod of many hoofs over the rich grass of the valley. It was
faint but distinct, and, to this man's inexperienced ears, suggested a large
party of horses, probably horsemen, approaching his prison. With what object? he
wondered, and, wondering, a feeling of excitement took possession of him. Five
minutes later his attention was distracted to another direction. Other sounds
reached him, sounds which emanated from close about his prison itself. There was
a movement going on just below him, and horses were moving about, apparently
somewhere in front, where he knew the corrals to be. His excitement increased.
In all his long weeks of imprisonment he had seen nothing of his captors and no
signs of them. Now, apparently, they were below him, possibly keeping guard, and
he wondered if they had been there every night, silent warders, whose presence
had been all undiscovered by himself. It was difficult, difficult to understand
or to believe. Yet there was no doubt that men were gathered below; he could
faintly hear their voices talking in hushed tones, and, equally, he could
plainly hear the sound of their horses. He wished there was a moon to give him
light enough to see what was going on. But now the more distant sounds had grown
louder, and as they grew the voices below spoke in less guarded tones. And from
the manner of their speech the listening man knew that something serious was
afoot. A sudden resolve now formulated in his mind, and he left his place at the
window and stood up. Then he moved swiftly to his door and opened it. The house
seemed wrapped in silence, and he moved out to the head of the small flight of
stairs leading to the floor below. He passed down and reached the door of the
parlor. Here he paused for a moment listening. All was still within, and he
cautiously opened the door. The lamp was lit, and, standing beside the table,
upon which the breakfast things were already set, he discovered the figure of
the daughter of Mallinsbee with her back turned towards him. There was another
figure present, too, and, to his intense chagrin, the millionaire beheld the
yellow features of Hip-Lee near the curtained window. However, he passed into
the room, and Hazel turned confronting him. He gazed intently into her face, so
serious and apparently troubled. The yellow lamplight imparted a curious hue,
and the man fancied she looked seriously frightened. "What's happening?" he
demanded, and an unusual brusqueness was in his tone. The girl's eyes surveyed
his expression swiftly. She looked for something she feared to discover there,
and the faintest sigh of relief escaped her as she realized that her fears were
unfounded. "That's what we--are trying to find out," she replied, her words
accompanied by a glance of simple, half-fearful helplessness. The man checked
the reply which promptly rose to his lips. He remembered in time that this girl
was the daughter of Mallinsbee and that she was exceedingly pretty. To the
former he had no desire to give anything away, while to the latter he desired to
display every courtesy. "Our guards seem to be on the alert, and--somebody is
approaching," said the millionaire, with a baffling smile. "If it weren't such a
peaceful spot I'd say there was an atmosphere of--trouble." "I--I sort of feel
that way, too," said Hazel in a scared manner. She had gathered all her
histrionic abilities together, and intended to use them. "I wonder what trouble
it is?" "Seems as if it was for the men who--took us," observed Carbhoy, with a
dryness he could not quite disguise. "You--mean our folks have located our
whereabouts and--are going to rescue us?" The millionaire smiled into the
innocent, questioning eyes, which, he knew, concealed a humorous guile. "I
didn't just mean that," he said. "Maybe the trouble won't come yet." He glanced
at the Chinaman standing sphinx-like at the curtains. "Must he remain?" he said,
appealing directly to the girl. Hazel felt the necessity for a bold move. "Don't
let him worry you. We can't help ourselves. I dare not risk offending him." She
conjured a well-feigned shudder. The millionaire laughed, and his laugh left the
girl troubled and disconcerted. She would have liked to know what lay behind it.
However, she kept to her attitude of fear. She must play her part to the end.
"Hark!" Carbhoy turned his head, listening intently. The girl followed his
example. "Say----"  The millionaire broke off, and his smile was replaced by a
look of puzzled incredulity. A shot had been fired. It was answered by a shot
from somewhere close to the house. A look of doubt sprang into his gray eyes,
and he darted to the window and unceremoniously brushed the hated Chinaman
aside. He drew the curtain cautiously aside and peered out into the bight. Hazel
beheld the change of expression and his quick, alert movements with
satisfaction. She knew that the sounds of the shots had disconcerted him. He was
more than impressed. He was convinced. Then followed a portentous few moments.
The two single shots were converted into something like a rattle of musketry.
And intermingled with it came the hoarse, blasphemous cries of men, and the
pounding of horses' hoofs racing hither and thither. The man at the window
remained silent, his eyes glued to the crack of the divided curtains. He saw
flashes of gunfire and the dim outline of moving figures. But the details of the
scene were hidden from him by the darkness. Hazel, standing close behind him,
rose to a great effort. One hand was laid abruptly upon his arm, and her nervous
fingers clutched at his coat-sleeve as though she were seeking support. She
caught a sharp breath. "My God!" she cried in a tense whisper, while somehow her
whole body shook. Carbhoy gave one glance in her direction. His eyes and
features had become tense with excitement. With his disengaged hand he patted
the girl's with a reassuring gentleness, and finally it remained resting upon
her clutching fingers. "It's a scrap up all right," he said, with conviction
that had no fear in it. "But it's their game, not----"

But his words were cut short by the great shouting that went up outside the
house. Then came more firing, and the sharp plonk of bullets as they struck the
building were plainly heard by the watchers. Hazel urged the man at the
curtains--

"Come away. For goodness' sake come away. A stray shot! That window! You----"

She strove to drag the man away in a wild assumption of panic. But the
millionaire intended to miss nothing of what was going on. The danger of his
position did not occur to him. He firmly released himself from her clutch. "You
sit right down, my dear," he said kindly. "Just get right out of line with this
window. I want to see this out. Say, hark! They're hitting it up good, eh?" His
eyes were alight with the excitement of battle, and Hazel, watching him, with
fear carefully expressed in her eyes, could not help but admire the spirit of
her lover's father, and more than ever regret the part she was forced to play.
She withdrew obediently as the sounds of battle waxed and the cries of the
combatants made the still night hideous. The firing had become almost incessant,
and the bullets seemed to hail upon the building from every direction. Then,
too, the galloping horses added to the tumult, and it was pretty obvious the
defenders were charging their opponents. "There seems to be about two to one
attacking," said the millionaire over his shoulder presently. As he turned he
surveyed with pity the strong look of terror the girl had contrived. He never
once looked in the detested Chinaman's direction. In his heart he would not have
regretted a chance shot disturbing those yellow, immobile features. Then,
turning back again quickly--

"I wonder!" Now that the battle seemed to be at its height, and whilst awaiting
its issue, he had time for conjecture. What was the meaning of it? And who were
the attacking party? Was Slosson at its head? Had Harker sent up and was this a
sheriff's posse? Both seemed possible. Yet neither, somehow, convinced him.
Whoever were attacking, it was pretty certain in his mind that his release was
the object. But the moment passed, and he became absorbed once more in the
battle itself. It seemed miraculous to his twentieth-century ideas that such a
condition of things could prevail. Why, it was like the old romantic days of the
hard drinking, hard swearing "bad men," and a sort of boyish delight in the
excitement of it all swept through his veins. He had no time or thought for the
part the now terror-stricken girl had played in his captivity. All he felt was a
large-hearted, chivalrous regret for her present condition, of which no doubt
remained in his mind. A rush of horsemen charged up to the building. The
watching man saw their outline distinctly. There seemed to him at least eight or
ten. He saw another crowd, smaller numerically, charge at them, and then the
revolvers spat out their vicious flashes of ruddy fire. The crowd dispersed and
gathered again. Another fusillade. Then something seemed to happen. The whole
crowd swept away in the darkness, and the sounds of shooting and the cries of
men died away into the distance. He waited awhile to assure himself that, so far
as their position was concerned, the battle was at an end. Then he turned away
from the window. "They've cleaned 'em out," he said sharply. "I can't tell whose
outed. They've ridden off at the gallop, firing and cursing as they went. Maybe
our captors have driven the others off. Maybe it's the other way. We'll--hark!"
He was back at the window again in a second. "They're coming back," he cried.
"Say----"

Hazel was at his side in a moment. "Are they the----?" "Can't say who," cried
Carbhoy, peering intently. "A big bunch of 'em." "Our men were only four," said
Hazel quickly. The millionaire was too intent to look round, and so he missed
the girl's smile over at Hip-Lee. But the tone of her voice was unmistakable in
its anxiety. "There's eight or more here," he cried. "Say, they're dismounting!
They're----"

"They're coming into the house!" cried Hazel in an extravagant panic. "They----"

At that instant a loud voice beyond the door of the room was heard shouting to
the men outside--

"Keep a keen eye while I go through the house! Don't let a soul escape. If
they've hurt one hair of her head somebody's going to pay, and pay dear." The
millionaire was standing stock still in the middle of the room. A curious look
was gleaming in his steady eyes. Hazel, in the midst of her pretended panic,
beheld it and interpreted it. She read in it a recognition of the speaker's
voice, but she also read incredulity and amazement. But at that instant the door
burst open and a great figure rushed headlong into the room. As the girl beheld
it she flung wide her arms and, with a cry, ran towards the intruder. "Gordon!
Gordon! At last, at last!" she cried. "Oh, I thought you would never find me!
Never, never!" Her final exclamations were lost in the bosom of his tweed coat,
as she flung herself into his arms and burst into a flood of hysterical weeping
and laughter. "Hazel! My poor little Hazel! Say, I've been nearly crazy. I----"

Gordon broke off, the girl still lying in his arms. His eyes had lifted to the
face of his father, and their keen, steady glance became instantly absorbed by
the gray speculation behind the other's. "Dad! You?" The astonishment, the
incredulity were perfect. They might well have deceived anybody. "Sure," said
the millionaire dryly. Then, "I don't guess they've hurt her any, though. Maybe
you best hand her over to her father," he went on, pointing at the burly figure
of Silas Mallinsbee, who, with his patch well down over his eye, had appeared at
that moment in the doorway. "Guess he'll know how to soothe her some. Meanwhile
you'll maybe tell me how you lit on our trail." The man's smile was disarming,
yet Gordon fancied he detected a shadow of that lurking irony which he knew so
well in his father. He turned about, however, and passed Hazel over to the
rancher, while he added tender injunctions--

"Say, Mr. Mallinsbee, she's scared all to death. You best get her to bed. Poor
little girl! Say, I'd like----"

But he did not complete his sentence. Instead he turned to his father, as Hazel,
with difficulty restraining her laughter, was led from the room by her solemn-
faced, fierce-eyed parent. "Say, Dad, what in the name of all creation has
brought you here?" The millionaire turned, and a cold eye of hatred settled upon
the background which Hip-Lee formed to the picture. "Do we need that yellow
reptile present?" he said unemotionally. "I guess not," said Gordon readily.
Then he pointed the door to the Mongolian. "Get!" he ejaculated. And the
injunction was acted upon with silent alacrity. Then the two men faced each
other. "Well?" demanded the father. The son smiled amiably. "Well?" he retorted.
And both men sat down. CHAPTER XXVI

CASHING IN

Gordon's eyes were alight with a wonder that somehow lacked reality as he
dropped into the chair beside the table. "You? You?" he murmured. Then aloud:
"It--it's incredible!" Then, with an impulsive gesture. "In the name of all
that's crazy what's--what's the meaning of it? How in the world have you got
into the hands of these ruffians?" His father selected one of the two remaining
cigars in his case, and passed the other across. "Try again," he said quietly,
as he bit the end off his. But Gordon did not "try again." He took the proffered
cigar, and sat devouring the silent figure and sphinx-like face of the other,
while he felt like one who had received a douche of ice-cold water from a pail.
His acting had missed fire, and he knew it. He wondered how much else of his
efforts had missed fire with this abnormally acute man. He had intended this to
be the moment of his triumph. He had intended to lay before his father his
talent of silver, doubled and redoubled an hundredfold. He had intended, with
all the enthusiasm of youthful vanity, to display the triumph of his
understanding of the modern methods of dealing with the affairs of finance. He
was going to prove his theories up to the hilt. Now, somehow, he felt that
whatever victory he had achieved the clear, keen brain behind his father's
steady gray eyes saw through him completely, right down into the deepest secrets
which he had believed to be securely hidden. Face to face with this man, who had
spent all the long years of his life studying how best to beat his fellow man,
his acting became but a paltry mask which obscured nothing. "Try again." Such
simple words, but so significant. No, it was useless to "try again" with this
dear, shrewd creature he was so futilely endeavoring to deceive. The cold of the
gray eyes had changed. It was only a slight change, but to Gordon, who
understood his father so well, it was clearly perceptible and indicative of the
mood behind. There was a suggestion of a smile in them, an ironical, half-
humorous smile that scattered all his carefully made plans. The millionaire
struck a match and held it out to light his son's cigar, and, as Gordon leaned
forward, their eyes met in a steady regard. "Nothing doing?" inquired the
father, as he carefully lit his own cigar from the same match. Gordon shook his
head, and his eyes smiled whimsically. "Then I best do first talk." The
millionaire leaned back in his chair and breathed out a thin spiral of smoke.
Then he sighed. "Good smokes these. Mallinsbee's a man of taste." "Mallinsbee?"
"Sure." "Go on." "He's kept me well supplied. Also with good wine. I owe him
quite a debt--that way. Say----"  The millionaire paused reflectively. Then he
went on in the manner of a man who has arrived at a complete and definite
decision: "Guess it would take hours asking questions and getting answers. It's
not my way, and I don't guess I'm a lawyer anyway, and you aren't a shady
witness. We know just how to talk out straight. I've had over seven weeks to
think in--and thinking with me is--a disease. Let's go back. I had a neat land
scoop working up here. Slosson was working it. He's been a secret agent of mine
for years. I've no reason to distrust him. He fixes things right for us and
sends word for me to come along. That's happened many times before. It's not
new, or--unusual. When I get here I'm met by a very charming young girl with a
rig and team. Her excuse for meeting me is reasonable. The rest is easy. We are
both held up, and brought here--captives. Then I start in to think a lot.
Argument don't carry me more than a mile till that same charming girl, who's
just done all she knew to make things right for me, makes her first break. When
I found out she was the daughter of Mallinsbee I did all the thinking needed in
half an hour. I knew I was to be rolled on this land deal by Mallinsbee's crowd,
and, judging by the methods adopted, to be rolled good. You see we'd had
negotiations with Mallinsbee about his land at Buffalo Point before. See?"
Gordon silently nodded. His father breathed heavily, and, with a wry twist of
his lips, rolled his cigar firmly into the corner of his mouth. "Now, when I'd
done thinking it just left me guessing in two directions. One of 'em I answered
more or less satisfactorily. This was the one I answered. What had become of
Slosson? Had he been handled by these folk, or had he doubled? The latter I
counted out. I've always had him where I wanted him. He wouldn't dare. So I said
he'd been 'handled.' The other was how could they hope to deal with the Union
Grayling without my authority? That's still unanswered, though I see a gleam of
daylight--since meeting you here. However, Gordon boy, you've certainly given me
the surprise of my life--finding you associated with Mallinsbee--and taken to
play-acting. That was a pretty piece outside with guns. I allow it got me fine.
But you overdid it showing in here. That also told me another thing. It told me
that a feller can spend a lifetime making a bright man of himself, while it only
takes a pretty gal five seconds yanking out one of the key-stones to the edifice
he's built. I guess I've been mighty sorry for your lady friend. I guessed she
was pining to death for her folks, and was scared to death of that darnation
Chink. However, I'm relieved to find she's just a bunch of bright wits, and
don't lack in natural female ability for play-acting. Maybe you can hand me some
about those directions I'm still guessing in. I'll smoke while you say some."
Father and son smiled into each other's faces as the elder finished speaking.
But while Gordon's smile was one of genuine admiration, his father's still
savored of that irony which warned the younger that all was by no means plain
sailing yet. "I'm glad you feel that way about Hazel, Dad," cried Gordon, his
face flushing with genuine pleasure. "She's some girl. I guess I'm the luckiest
feller alive winning her for a wife, eh?" "You're going to--marry her?" "Why,
yes. She's the greatest, the best, the----"

"Just so. But we're not both going to marry her." Gordon flung back in his chair
with a great laugh. But his father's eyes still maintained their irony. "Say,
I'm sort of sorry talking that way now. There's other things." Gordon fumbled in
his pocket while he went on. "Slosson? Why Slosson's trying to stave off
pneumonia in a disused, perforated shack way up on Mallinsbee's ranch. He's a
skunk of a man anyway, and I had to let him know I thought that way. I haven't
heard about the pneumonia yet, but if he got it I don't guess it would give me
nightmare." Then he handed across a small volume in morocco binding which he had
taken from his pocket. "I don't seem to think you'll need much explanation about
the other. That's your code book, which I forgot to return in the hurry of
quitting New York." The millionaire turned the cover, closed it again, and
quietly bestowed it in his pocket. "Guess I'll keep this," he said without
emotion. "Yes, it tells me a lot. It tells me I've credited Mallinsbee and his
crowd with the work of my son. It tells me that my own son is solely responsible
for the idea, and execution, of rolling his father on this land deal. It tells
me that the principles of big finance must have a fertile resting place
somewhere in my son. Well, there's quite a lot of time before daylight." It had
been an anxious moment for Gordon when he handed back the private code book, and
he had watched his father closely. He was seeking any sign of anger, or regret,
or even pain, as his own actions became apparent to the other. There were no
such signs. There was only that non-committal half smile, and it left him still
uncertain. His father's patience seemed inexhaustible. Had Gordon only realized
it this was the very sign he should have looked for in such a man. James Carbhoy
loved his son as few men regard their offspring, but he wanted his son to be
something more than a mere object of his affection. He wanted him to be an
object upon which he could bestow all the enormous pride of a self-made man. He
wanted to feel that exquisite thrill of triumph resulting to his vanity, that
Gordon was his son--the son of his father. "Yes, there's quite a while before
daylight, Dad, and I'm glad." Gordon ran his fingers through his hair. "So I'd
better hand it you from the beginning. I want you to get a right understanding
of my motives. It was opportunity. That thing you've always taught me fools most
always try to dodge, and most good men generally miss." His father nodded and
Gordon settled himself afresh in his chair. "Yes, I'm in this thing, Dad," he
went on, after the briefest of pauses. "In it right up to my neck," he added,
with a whimsical smile. "It was the opportunity I needed to make good. Being
neither a fool nor a good man I took it, and now I sit with a wad of one hundred
and five thousand dollars in good United States currency. It's here in my
pocket, and I'm ready to hand it over to you in payment for those old debts. You
will observe I have still eight weeks of my six months to run. I want to say, as
you'll no doubt agree when you've heard my story, that I've made, or acquired
it, through graft and piracy, such as I talked about to you awhile back, and, as
far as I can see, my method has been as completely dishonest as an honest man
could adopt. Dad, I've always regarded your sense of humor as one of your
greatest attributes, but whether it'll stand for the way I've treated you, even
with my intimate knowledge of you, I'm not prepared to guess. This is the yarn."
Gordon plunged into the story without further preamble while his father sat and
smoked on with that half smile still fixed in his gray eyes. The younger man
watched the still, inscrutable, sphinx-like figure with eyes of grave
speculation. He missed no detail in the story of his irresponsibility and
haphazard adventure. He started at the moment when he booked his passage for
Seattle, and carried it on right down to the melodramatic moment when he burst
into that parlor to rescue the girl he loved from a peril which he knew had
never threatened her. He told it all with a detail that spared neither himself,
nor the confidential agent Slosson, nor any one else concerned. He showed up the
spirit of graft which actuated every step of his progress, and did not hesitate
to apply the lash with merciless force upon the railroad organization his father
controlled. And right through, from beginning to end, the millionaire listened
without sign or comment. He wanted to hear all this boy--his boy--had to say.
And as he went on that pride, parental pride, in him grew and grew. At the end
of the story Gordon added a final comment--

"I want to say, Dad, I haven't done this all myself. I've had the help of two of
the most cheerful, lovable rascals I've ever met. Also the help of one honest
man. But above all, through the whole thing, I've been supported by the smile of
the sweetest and best woman in the world, the girl who's done her best to care
for your comfort here. She's sacrificed all scruples to help me out, while her
father, bless him, has never approved any of my dirty schemes. There you are,
Dad, that's the yarn. I don't guess it'll make you shout for joy, but, anyway,
you started me out to make good--anyway I chose--and I've made good.
Furthermore, I've made good within the time limit, and, in making good, I'm
bringing back a wife to our home city. I'm standing on my own legs now, as you
always guessed you wanted me to, and if you don't just fancy the gait I travel--
why, it's up to you. That's mine--now you say." The fixity of his father's
attitude had driven Gordon to say more than he had intended, but he meant it,
every word, nor did he regard his parent with any less affection for it. But
now, as he awaited a response, a certain unease was tugging at his heartstrings.
At last the millionaire rose from his seat and crossed to the curtained window.
He drew the curtains aside, and, raising the sash, flung out his cigar stump.
Then for a moment he gazed out at the moonless night. While he stood thus the
smile in his thoughtful eyes deepened. At last, however, he turned back, and the
face that confronted the son he loved wore the sharp, hawk-like look which his
opponents in the business world of New York were so familiar with. "That's all
right," he said sharply. "But--you've forgotten something." Gordon became
extremely alert. "Have I?" Then he laughed. "It 'ud be a miracle if I hadn't."
"Sure. Most folks forget something. I forgot that code book." "Yes." Their eyes
met. "You've forgotten that I can stop the work at Buffalo Point. You've
forgotten that you've passed out of the realms of simple graft and plunged into
criminal proceedings, which brings you within the shadow of the law. You've
forgotten that I can smash your schemes, break you, and send you to penitentiary
--you and your entire gang." The steady eyes were deadly as they coldly backed
the sharp pronouncement of the words. Gordon was caught by the painful emotion
which the harshness of them inspired. He knew that his father had spoken the
simple truth. He knew that in the eyes of the world he was a plain criminal. The
unpleasant feeling was instantly thrust aside, however. He had not embarked upon
this affair without intending to carry it through to the end he desired. "I
haven't forgotten those things, Dad," he said, with a sharpness equal to the
other's. "I thought of 'em all--and prepared for 'em. I'm not playing. You put
this thing up to me. I'm here to see it through." "And then?" There was a shade
of sarcasm in the millionaire's tone. "Then? Why, I could tell you lots of
reasons why you can't do any of these things. There's arguments that I don't
guess you've missed already. But, anyway, just one little fact 'll be sufficient
to go on with. You're here a captive, and you can't get away till I give the
word." For one of the very few times in his life James Carbhoy was seriously
disconcerted. Choler began to rise, and a hot flush tinged his cheeks and his
eyes sparkled. "You--would keep me here a prisoner--indefinitely?" he exploded.
"I'm not playing, Dad," Gordon warned. Gordon had risen from his chair, and the
two stood eye to eye. It was a tense moment, full of potent possibilities. One
of them must give way, or a clash would inevitably follow, a clash which would
probably destroy forever that perfect devotion which had always existed between
them. For Gordon it was a moment of extreme pain. But in him was no thought of
yielding. From his father it was his invincible determination to force an
acknowledgment of fitness in human affairs as he understood them. At that moment
there was no humor in the situation for him. In the older man, however, humor
was perhaps more matured. Parental affection, too, is perhaps a bigger, wider,
deeper thing than the filial emotions of youth. He had only intended to test
this son of his. His challenge had been intended to try him, to confound. But
the confounding had been with him in the shock of his son's irrevocable
determination. That moment of natural resentment passed as swiftly as it had
arisen. Gordon was all, and even more, he told himself dryly, than he had hoped.
And so the moment passed, and the hard, gray eyes melted to a kindly, whimsical
smile which had not one vestige of irony in it. "You're a blamed young scamp,"
he said cordially; "but--I'm afraid I like you all the better for it. Say, do
you think that little girl of yours and her father have gone to bed yet?" Gordon
reached across, holding out his hand. "Dear old Dad," he cried, "I'm dead sure
we'll find 'em both not a mile the other side of that door. The game's played
out, and--we quit?" The father caught his son's hand and wrung it. "It's played
out, boy; and God bless you!" They stood for a moment hand gripped in hand. Then
the millionaire pointed at the door. "I'd like to see 'em before--daylight."
With a delighted laugh Gordon turned away to the door and flung it open. "Say,"
he called, "Hazel! Ho! Mr. Mallinsbee!" In a moment Hazel had darted to her
lover's side, and was followed more decorously by the burly rancher, with his
patch well down over one eye. Gordon pointed at it. "Guess you can do without
that, Mr. Mallinsbee. You're not going to face an opponent; you're going to meet
a--friend." He slid his arm about the girl's waist and drew her gently forward
towards his father standing waiting to receive her with humorously twinkling
eyes. [Illustration: He Drew Her Gently Towards His Father]

"So you're to be my little daughter," cried the millionaire kindly. "Well, my
dear, I'm glad. I like grit, and you've got it plenty. I like a pretty face, and
--but I guess Gordon's told you all about that. Seeing you're to be my daughter
--and Gordon's left me no choice in the matter, the same as he left me no choice
in other things--I feel I've the right to tell you you're a pair of--as
impertinent young rascals as I've ever had the happiness to claim relationship
with. Let me see, just come here, and--Gordon owes me for many nights of
anxiety, and I guess I've a right to make him pay. I'll be satisfied with the
payment of a kiss from you." He held out his arms, and Hazel, with a joyous
laugh and blushing cheeks, ran to them. "Thank you, my dear," laughed the
millionaire, as the girl frankly kissed him. "And that's the change." He closed
his arms about her and returned her kiss. Then, when he had released her, he
turned to Mallinsbee and held out his hand. "I can always make friends with the
fellow who licks me, Mr. Mallinsbee. I'm glad to meet you--with that patch
removed from your eye. The game's played and you've won, and I promise you all
that's been done in my name by my son goes. You see, henceforth he's my partner
now, so he's the right to act in my name. I'm trusting him with my dollars, but
you are trusting him with something far more precious. I hope he'll prove as
good a son to you as, I'm glad to say, I consider he's been to me." Mallinsbee
smiled a little sadly, and his eyes gazed tenderly in Hazel's direction.
"Directly that boy of yours come around, Mr. Carbhoy, I felt the chill of winter
beating up. I'm glad he come, though--I like him. But," he added, with a sigh,
"I'll sure need to bank those furnaces some." Hazel left the millionaire's side
and crossed to her father, and passed her arm about his vast waist. "Don't start
yet, Daddy," she said, smiling up at the rugged face. "I haven't left you yet,
and when I do it's only going to be for a small piece at a time." Silas
Mallinsbee shook his head. "Don't you worry, little gal," he said gently. "I
guess this winter's goin' to be a mild one. You see, I'm goin' to have a son as
well as a daughter, and--who knows?--maybe grandsons----"

But Hazel had quickly pressed one hand over his lips and stifled the
possibilities he was about to enumerate. Gordon laughed, and his father smiled
over at the other father. "See, Mr. Mallinsbee, we don't need to worry with the
summer," Gordon cried. "Summer generally fixes things right for itself.
Meanwhile we'll just make the winter as easy as we can. You've given your little
girl to me, and she's all you care for in the world. Well, that's a trust that
demands all the best I can give. I won't fail you. I won't fail her. And you,
Dad, I won't fail you." "Good boy," said the millionaire, with a glow of pride.
"I just know it, and--I know it for Mr. Mallinsbee and Hazel, too, if they don't
know it for themselves. Say----"

For a moment his eyes grew serious. Then into them crept a gleam of twinkling
humor which found reflection on the faces of both Gordon and Hazel, who waited
for him to complete what he had to say. "You've told your mother, Gordon?" he
inquired. "Seems to me you've told her 'most everything in those--chatty--
letters of yours." Gordon grinned and shook his head, while Hazel waited--not
without some apprehension. His father's smile gave way to a quaint expression of
awe at such negligence. "I'd say she'd be pleased, of course," the millionaire
said, without conviction. "It's a mercy not always bestowed on a boy to get a
wife like--Hazel. Your mother's a mighty good woman, Gordon, and I'll allow
she's got her ways about things. But she's good, and I guess she'll just take to
Hazel right away." There was no confidence in his manner, in spite of the
bravery of his words. But Gordon quickly cleared the atmosphere with his cheery
confidence. "You leave the dear old mater to me, Dad," he cried. "You see, you
only married her--she raised me. I'll write her to-night, and--say, that reminds
me," he added, glancing at his watch. "Daylight'll be around directly. Hazel
needs her rest. Hadn't we----"

Hazel laughed. She had no real desire for bed, but she was tired, weary with the
strain of all the swiftly moving events. She caught at his suggestion and
demanded compliance. "Yes," she cried. "There's another day to-morrow. Oh, that
wonderful to-morrow! A long, bright, happy day in which we have nothing to
conceal, no wicked schemes to be worked out. A day of real happiness, when we
can just be our real selves. Let's all go to bed and dream our dreams with the
full certainty that, however happy our to-day is, to-morrow has always the
possibility of being happier." But Gordon did not write the promised letter that
night. He held long communion with himself, and decided to send a telegram. He
realized that diplomacy must be brought to bear, for his mother, with all her
exquisite qualities, possessed a slightly arbitrary side to her character where
her home and belongings were concerned. Therefore he decided on a bold stroke.
He sacrificed his own rest that night, and in doing so sacrificed that of
certain others. Sunset was roused from his equine slumbers, as also was Steve
Mason disturbed out of a portion of his night's rest. Gordon rode hard into
Snake's Fall. He wished to make the return journey before breakfast. On arrival
at the township he ignored every protest from the operator. He overruled him on
every point, and was prepared to back his overruling with physical force. Steve
Mason was literally scrambled into his clothes and set to work at those hated
keys, and the New York call was sent singing over the wires. Meanwhile Gordon
was left at work upon a sheet of paper upon which, after considerable thought,
his diplomatic effort resolved itself into a piece of superlative effrontery.
And this was the message which startled his mother over her morning coffee and
rolls, and incidentally sent a current of furious feminine excitement through
the entire Carbhoy establishment at Central Park, like a sharp electric storm.
"_Mrs. James Carbhoy,_   "_New York._

"Gordon's work here beyond praise. Boy has done wonders. When you hear all you
will be proud of him. I am with him here now. Great events developing. Am most
anxious to form alliance with certain people for financial reasons. Your
influence required on social side. You will understand when I say rich,
desirable heiress. Gordon needs persuasion. Come at once. Special to Snake's
Fall. Will meet you at latter depot. "JAMES CARBHOY." When this message was
handed to the impatient operator and he had carefully read it over, the man
looked up with what Gordon regarded as an impertinent grin. His resentment
promptly leaped. "Say," he cried in a threatening tone, "there's some faces made
for grinning, and others that couldn't win prizes that way amongst a crowd of
fool-faced mules. Guess yours was spoiled for any sort of chance whatever, so
cut out trying to make it worse than your parents made it for you. Get me? Just
play about on those fool keys and set the tune of that message right, or Mr.
James Carbhoy's going to hear things quick." The threat of the President of the
railroad was sufficient to enforce compliance, but Steve Mason was no respector
of persons outside that authority, and his retort came glibly. "You wrote this,
Mister, and--you ain't Mr. James Carbhoy," he said, with a sneer and a half-
threat. But Gordon was in no mood for trifling about anything. He was anxious to
be off back to the ranch. "Mr. James Carbhoy is my father," he cried sharply,
"and if that don't penetrate your perfectly ridiculous brain-box I'll add that
I'm the son of my father--Mr. James Carbhoy. Are you needing anything, or--will
you get busy?" Steve Mason decided to "get busy," and so the message winged its
way over the wires. THE END

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

The Son of His Father   The Men Who Wrought   The Golden Woman   The Law-
Breakers   The Way of the Strong   The Twins of Suffering Creek   The Night-
Riders   The One-Way Trail   The Trail of the Axe   The Sheriff of Dyke Hole
The Watchers of the Plains