CHAPTER I

VIRGINIA CITY

One fine morning in the fall of '64 Alder Gulch rolled up its shirt sleeves and
fell to the upheaving, sluicing, drifting, and cradling of the gravel. It did
not feel exactly like old-fashioned everyday work to the muddy, case-hardened
diggers. Each man knew that by evening he would see the level of dust rise
higher in his long buckskin gold-bags. All this made for the day when he could
retire to the green East and marry some beautiful girl--thereafter having
nothing to do but eat pie and smoke fragrant cigars in a basking sunshine of no-
work. Pie up at Kustar's bake-shop was now one dollar a pie, and a pipe full of
molasses and slivers was the best to be had in the market. Life was hard at
Alder in those days--it was practical; and when its denizens became sentimental,
it took these unlovely forms, sad to relate. [Illustration]

Notwithstanding the hundreds who toiled in the gulches, Virginia City itself
held hurrying crowds,--Mormon freighters, pack trains, ponies, dirty men off the
trails, wan pilgrims, Indians, Chinese, and almost everything else not angelic.
Into this bustle rode Rocky Dan, who, after dealing faro all night at the "Happy
Days" shebang, had gone for a horseback ride through the hills to brighten his
eyes and loosen his nerves. Reining up before this place, he tied his pony where
a horse-boy from the livery corral could find it. Striding into that unhallowed
hall of Sheol, he sang out, "Say, fellers, I've just seen a thing out in the
hills which near knocked me off'en my horse. You couldn't guess what it was
nohow. I don't believe half what I see and nothin' what I read, but it's out
thar in the hills, and you can go throw your eyes over it yourselves." "What? a
new thing, Dan? No! No! Dan, you wouldn't come here with anything good and blurt
it out," said the rude patrons of the "Happy Days" mahogany, vulturing about
Rocky Dan, keen for anything new in the way of gravel. "I gamble it wa'n't a
murder--that wouldn't knock you off'en your horse, jus' to see one--hey, Dan?"
ventured another. "No, no," vouched Dan, laboring under an excitement ill
becoming a faro-dealer. Recovering himself, he told the bartender to 'perform
his function.' The "valley tan" having been disposed of, Dan added:--

"It was a boy!" "Boy--boy--a boy?" sighed the crowd, setting back their
'empties.' "A boy ain't exactly new, Dan," added one. "No, that's so," he
continued, in his unprofessional perplexity, "but this was a white boy." "Well,
that don't make him any newer," vociferated the crowd. "No, d---- it, but this
was a white boy out in that Crow Injun camp, with yeller hair braided down the
sides of his head, all the same Injun, and he had a bow and arrer, all the same
Injun; and I said, 'Hello, little feller,' and he pulled his little bow on me,
all the same Injun. D---- the little cuss, he was about to let go on me. I was
too near them Injuns, anyhow, but I was on the best quarter horse in the
country, as you know, and willin' to take my chance. Boys, he was white as Sandy
McCalmont there, only he didn't have so many freckles." The company regarded the
designated one, who promptly blushed, and they gathered the idea that the boy
was a decided blonde. "Well, what do you make of it, anyhow, Dan?" "What do I
make of it? Why, I make of it that them Injuns has lifted that kid from some
outfit, and that we ought to go out and bring him in. He don't belong there,
nohow, and that's sure." "That's so," sang the crowd as it surged into the
street; "let's saddle up and go and get him. Saddle up! saddle up!" The story
blew down the gulch on the seven winds. It appealed to the sympathies of all
white men, and with double force to their hatred of the Indians. There was no
man at Alder Gulch, even the owners of squaws,--and they were many,--who had not
been given cause for this resentment. Business was suspended. Wagoners cut out
and mounted team-horses; desperadoes, hardened roughs, trooped in with honest
merchants and hardy miners as the strung-out cavalcade poured up the road to the
plateau, where the band of Crows had pitched their tepees. "Klat-a-way! Klat-a-
way!" shouted the men as they whipped and spurred up the steeps. The road
narrowed near the top, and here the surging horsemen were stopped by a few men
who stood in the middle waving and howling "Halt!" The crowd had no definite
scheme of procedure at any time,--it was simply impelled forward by the ancient
war-shout of _A rescue! A rescue!_ The blood of the mob had mounted high, but it
drew restive rein before a big man who had forced his pony up on the steep
hillside and was speaking in a loud, measured, and authoritative voice. The
riders felt the desire for council; the ancient spirit of the witenagemote came
over them. The American town meeting, bred in their bones and burned into their
brains, made them listen to the big temporary chairman with the yellow lion's
mane blowing about his head in the breeze. His horse did not want to stand still
on the perilous hillside, but he held him there and opened. [Illustration: THE
CHAIRMAN.] "Gentlemen, if this yar outfit goes a-chargin' into that bunch of
Injuns, them Injuns aforesaid is sure goin' to shoot at us, and we are naturally
goin' to shoot back at them. Then, gentlemen, there will be a fight, they will
get a bunch of us, and we will wipe them out. Now, our esteemed friend yer, Mr.
Chick-chick, savvies Injuns, as you know, he bein' somewhat their way hisself--
allows that they will chill that poor little boy with a knife the first rattle
out of the box. So, gentlemen, what good does it all do? Now, gentlemen, I
allows if you all will keep down yer under the hill and back our play, Chick-
chick and me will go into that camp and get the boy alive. If these Injuns rub
us out, it's your move. All what agrees to this motion will signify it by
gettin' down off'en their horses." Slowly man after man swung to the ground.
Some did not so readily agree, but they were finally argued off their horses.
Whereat the big chairman sang out: "The ayes have it. Come on, Mr. Chick-chick."
These two rode up the hill and over the mesa, trotting along as they talked.
"Now, Chick-chick, I don't know a heap about Injuns. The most that I have seen
of them was over the sights of a rifle. How are we goin' at this? Do you _habla_
Crow lingo, Se√±or?" "No," replied that much mixed-blooded man, "I no _cumtux_
Crow, but I make the hand talk, and I can clean up a _ten-ass Chinook_; all you
do is to do nothing,--you no shake hands, you say nothing, until we smoke the
pipe, then you say 'How?' and shake hands all same white man. You hang on to
your gun--suppose they try take it away--well, den, _icta-nica-ticki_, you
shoot! Then we are dead." Having laid his plan of campaign before his brother in
arms, no more was said. History does not relate what was thought about it. They
arrived in due course among the tepees of a small band of Crows. There were not
probably a hundred warriors present, but they were all armed, horsed, and under
considerable excitement. These Crows were at war with all the other tribes of
the northern plains, but maintained a truce with the white man. They had very
naturally been warned of the unusual storm of horsemen bearing in their
direction, and were apprehensive concerning it. They scowled at the chairman and
Mr. Chick-chick, who was an Oregon product, as they drew up. The latter began
his hand-language, which was answered at great length. He did not at once calm
the situation, but was finally invited to smoke in the council lodge. The squaws
were pulling down the tepees; roping, bundling, screaming, hustling ponies,
children, and dogs about, unsettling the statesmen's nerves mightily as they
passed the pipe. The big chairman began to fancy the Indians he had seen through
the sights more than these he was regarding over the pipe of peace. Chick-chick
gesticulated the proposition that the white papoose be brought into the tent,
where he could be seen. The Indians demurred, saying there was no white boy--
that all in the camp were Crows. A young warrior from outside broke into their
presence, talking in a loud tone. An old chief looked out through the entrance-
flap, across the yellow plains. Turning, he inquired what the white horsemen
were doing outside. He was told that they wanted the white boy; that the two
white chiefs among them would take the boy and go in peace, or that the others
would come and take him in war. Also, Chick-chick intimated that he must _klat-
a-way_. The Indians made it plain that he was not going to _klat-a-way_; but
looking abroad, they became more alarmed and excited by the cordon of whites
about them. "When the sun is so high," spoke Chick-chick, pointing, and using
the sign language, "if we do not go forth with the boy, the white men will
charge and kill all the Crows. One white boy is not worth that much." After more
excitement and talk, a youngish woman came, bearing a child in her arms, which
was bawling and tear-stained,--she vociferating wildly the time. Taking the
unmusical youngster by the arm, the old chief stood him before Chick-chick. The
boy was near nine years of age, the men judged, white beyond question, with
long, golden hair braided, Indian fashion, down the sides of his head. He was
neatly clothed in dressed buckskins, fringed and beaded, and not naked or half
naked, as most Indian boys are in warm weather. It was not possible to tell what
his face looked like in repose, for it was kneaded into grotesque lumps by his
cries and wailing. "He is a Crow; his skin is white, but his heart is Absaroke.
It makes us bleed to see him go; our women will mourn all this snow for him, but
to save my band I give him to you. Take him. He is yours." Chick-chick lifted
the child in his arms, where the small cause of all the turmoil struggled and
pulled hair until he was forced to hold him out at arm's length. Mounting, they
withdrew toward their friends. The council tepee fell in the dirt--a dozen
squaws tugging at its voluminous folds. The small hostage was not many yards on
his way toward his own kind before the Indian camp moved off toward the
mountains, urging their horses with whip and lance. This movement was
accelerated by a great discharging of white men's guns, who were supposed to be
sacrificing the little white Crow to some unknown passions; whereas, they were
merely celebrating the advent of the white child unharmed. He was indeed
unharmed as to body, but his feelings had been torn to shreds. He added his
small, shrill protesting yells to the general rejoicing. Chick-chick, or
Chickens, as the miners often called him, had not entered the expedition because
of his love for children, or the color of this one in particular; so, at the
suggestion of the chairman, it was turned over to a benevolent saloon-keeper,
who had nine notches in his gun, and a woman with whom he abided. "Gold Nugget,"
as he was promptly named by the diggers and freighters, was supposed to need a
woman, as it was adjudged that only such a one could induce him to turn off the
hot water and cease his yells. The cavalcade reached town, to find multitudes of
dirt-begrimed men thronging the streets waiting for what sensation there was
left in the affair. The infant had been overcome by his exertions and was
silent. They sat him on the bar of his godfather's saloon, while the men
shouldered their brawny way through the crowd to have a look at him--the lost
white child in the Indian dress. Many drinks and pistol shots were offered up in
his honor, and he having recovered somewhat, resumed his vocal protests. These
plaints having silenced the crowd, it was suggested by one man who was able to
restrain his enthusiasm, that the kid ought to be turned over to some woman
before he roared his head off. Acting on this suggestion, the saloon-keeper's
female friend was given charge. Taking him to her little house back of the
saloon, the child found milk and bread and feminine caresses to calm him until
he slept. It was publicly proclaimed by the nine-notch saloon-keeper that the
first man who passed the door of the kid's domicile would be number ten to his
gun. This pronunciamiento insured much needed repose to Gold Nugget during the
night. In the morning he was partially recovered from fears and tears. The women
patted his face, fed him to bursting, fingered the beautiful plaits of his
yellow hair, and otherwise showed that they had not surrendered all their
feminine sensibilities to their tumultuous lives. They spoke to him in pleading
voices, and he gurgled up his words of reply in the unknown tongue. The saloon-
keeper's theory that it would be a good thing to set him up on the bar some more
in order to keep trade, was voted both inhuman and impracticable by the women.
Later in the day a young man managed to get on the youngster's blind side, when
by blandishments he beguiled him on to his pony in front of him. Thus he rode
slowly through the streets, to the delight of the people, who responded to Gold
Nugget's progress by volley and yell. This again frightened him, and he clung
desperately to his new friend, who by waving his arm stilled the tempest of
Virginia City's welcome, whereat the young man shouted, "Say--do you think this
kid is runnin' for sheriff?" The Gulch voted the newcomer the greatest thing
that ever happened; took him into partnership, speculated on his previous
career, and drank his health. Above all they drank his health. Unitedly they
drank to his weird past,--his interesting present, and to his future life and
happiness, far into the night. It was good for business, said the saloon-keepers
one to another. On one of the same mountain winds which had heralded his coming
was borne down the Gulch next morning the tragic words, "The kid has gone!"
"Gone?" said the miners; "gone whar?" Alder promptly dropped its pick, buckled
on its artillery, and assembled before the nine-notch man. "Where has the kid
gone?" it demanded. His woman stood beside the bar, wild-eyed and dishevelled.
"I don't know, gentlemen--I don't have an idea. He was playing by the door of my
shack last evening. I went in the house for a minute, and when I came out he was
gone. I yelled, and men came, but we could not find him hide or hair." "If any
man has got that kid away from me,--mind you this now,--he will see me through
the smoke," spoke nine-notch, as he rolled his eye malevolently for a possible
reply. Long search and inquiry failed to clear matters. The tracks around the
house shed no new light. The men wound their way to their cabins up and down the
Gulch, only answering inquiries by, "The kid is gone." CHAPTER II

WHITE WEASEL

For many days the Absaroke trotted and bumped along, ceaselessly beating their
ponies' sides with their heels, and lashing with their elk-horn whips. With
their packs and travoix they could not move fast, but they made up for this by
long hours of industrious plodding. An Indian is never struck without striking
back, and his counter always comes when not expected. They wanted to manoeuvre
their women and children, so that many hills and broad valleys would lie between
them and their vengeance when it should be taken. Through the deep ca√±ons, among
the dark pine trees, out across the bold table-lands, through the rivers of the
mountains, wound the long cavalcade, making its way to the chosen valley of
Crowland, where their warriors mustered in numbers to secure them from all
thought of fear of the white men. [Illustration]

The braves burned for vengeance on the white fools who dug in the Gulch they
were leaving behind, but the yellow-eyed people were all brothers. To strike the
slaves of the gravel-pits would be to make trouble with the river-men, who
brought up the powder and guns in boats every green-grass. The tribal policy was
against such a rupture. The Crows, or Sparrowhawks as they called themselves,
were already encompassed by their enemies, and only able by the most desperate
endeavors to hold their own hunting-grounds against the Blackfeet, Sioux, and
Cheyennes. Theirs was the pick and choosing of the northern plains. Neither too
hot nor too cold, well watered and thickly grassed on the plains, swarming with
buffalo, while in the winter they could retire to the upper valleys of the Big
Horn River, where they were shut in by the impassable snow-clad mountains from
foreign horse thieves, and where the nutritious salt-weed kept their ponies in
condition. Like all good lands, they could only be held by a strong and brave
people, who were made to fight constantly for what they held. The powder and
guns could only be had from the white traders, so they made a virtue of
necessity and held their hand. Before many days the squaw Ba-cher-hish-a rode
among the lodges with little White Weasel sitting behind her, dry-eyed and
content. Alder had lost Gold Nugget, but the Indians had White Weasel--so things
were mended. His foster-mother--the one from whom the chief had taken him--had
stayed behind the retreating camp, stealing about unseen. She wore the wolfskin
over her back, and in those days no one paid any attention to a wolf. In the
dusk of evening she had lain near the shack where her boy was housed, and at the
first opportunity she had seized him and fled. He did not cry out when her
warning hiss struck native tones on his ear. Mounting her pony, she had gained
the scouts, which lay back on the Indian trail. The hat-weavers (white men)
should know White Weasel no more. The old men Nah-kee and Umbas-a-hoos sat
smoking over their talk in the purple shade of a tepee. Idly noting the affairs
of camp, their eyes fell on groups of small urchins, which were scampering about
engaging each other in mimic war. They shot blunt-headed arrows, while other
tots returned the fire from the vantage of lariated ponies or friendly tepees.
They further observed that little White Weasel, by his activity, fierce impulse,
and mental excellence, was admittedly leading one of these diminutive war-
parties. He had stripped off his small buckskin shirt, and the milk-white skin
glared in the sunlight; one little braid had become undone and flowed in golden
curls about his shoulders. In childish screams he urged his group to charge the
other, and running forth he scattered all before his insistent assault. "See,
brother," spoke Nah-kee, "the little white Crow has been struck in the face by
an arrow, but he does not stop." "Umph--he will make a warrior," replied the
other, his features relaxing into something approaching kindliness. The two old
men understood what they saw even if they had never heard of the "Gothic self-
abandonment" which was the inheritance of White Weasel. "He may be a war-chief--
he leads the boys even now, before he is big enough to climb up the fore leg of
a pony to get on its back. The arrow in his face did not stop him. These white
men cannot endure pain as we do; they bleat like a deer under the knife. Do you
remember the one we built the fire on three grasses ago over by the Big Muddy
when Eashdies split his head with a battle-axe to stop his noise? Brother,
little White Weasel is a Crow." [Illustration: A CROW.] "It is so," pursued the
other veteran; "these yellow-eyes are only fit to play badger in a gravel-pit or
harness themselves to loaded boats, which pull powder and lead up the long
river. They walk all one green-grass beside their long-horned buffalo, hauling
their tepee wagons over the plains. If it were not for their medicine goods, we
would drive them far away." "Yes, brother, they are good for us. If we did not
have their powder and guns, the Cut-Throats [Sioux] and the Cut-Arms [Cheyennes]
would soon put the Absaroke fires out. We must step carefully and keep our eyes
open lest the whites again see White Weasel; and if these half-Indian men about
camp talk to the traders about him, we will have the camp soldiers beat them
with sticks. The white traders would take our powder away from us unless we gave
him to them." "We could steal him again, brother." "Yes, if they did not send
him down the long river in a boat. Then he would go so far toward the morning
that we should never pass our eyes over him again on this side of the
Spiritland. We need him to fill the place of some warrior who will be struck by
the enemy." Seeing the squaw Ba-cher-hish-a passing, they called to her and
said: "When there are any white men around the camps, paint the face of your
little son White Weasel, and fill his hair with wood ashes. If you are careful
to do this, the white men will not notice him; you will not have to part with
him again." "What you say is true," spoke the squaw, "but I cannot put black
ashes in his eyes." She departed, nevertheless, glorious with the new thought.
Having fought each other with arrows until it no longer amused them, the foes of
an idle hour ran away together down by the creek, where they disrobed by a
process neatly described by the white men's drill regulations, which say a thing
shall be done in "one time and two motions." White Weasel was more complicated
than his fellows by reason of one shirt, which he promptly skinned off. "See the
white Crow," gurgled a small savage, as every eye turned to our hero. "He always
has the war-paint on his body. He is always painted like the big men when they
go to strike the enemy--he is red all over. The war-paint is in his skin." "Now,
let us be buffalo," spoke one, answered by others, "Yes, let us be buffalo."
Accordingly, in true imitation of what to them was a familiar sight, they formed
in line, White Weasel at the head as usual. Bending their bodies forward and
swinging their heads, they followed down to the water, throwing themselves flat
in the shallows. Now they were no longer buffalo, but merely small boys
splashing about in the cool water, screaming incoherently and as nearly
perfectly happy as nature ever intended human beings to be. After a few minutes
of this, the humorist among them, the ultra-imaginative one, stood up pointing
dramatically, and, simulating fear, yelled, "Here comes the bad water monster,"
whereat with shrill screams and much splashing the score of little imps ran
ashore and sat down, grinning at their half-felt fear. The water monster was
quite real to them. Who could say one might not appear and grab a laggard? After
this they ran skipping along the river bank, quite naked, as purposeless as
birds, until they met two old squaws dipping water from the creek to carry home.
With hue and cry they gathered about them, darting like quick-motioned wolves
around worn-out buffalo. "They are buffalo, and we are wolves," chorussed the
infant band; "bite them! blind them! We are wolves! we will eat them!" They
plucked at their garments and threw dirt over them in childish glee. The old
women snarled at their persecutors and caught up sticks to defend themselves. It
was beginning to look rather serious for the supposed buffalo, when a young
warrior came riding down, his pony going silently in the soft dirt.
Comprehending the situation, and being fairly among them, he dealt out a few
well-considered cuts with his pony-whip, which changed the tune of those who had
felt its contact. They all ran off, some holding on to their smarts--scattering
away much as the wolves themselves might have done under such conditions. Indian
boys are very much like white boys in every respect, except that they are
subject to no restraint, and carry their mischievousness to all bounds. Their
ideas of play being founded on the ways of things about them, they are warriors,
wild animals, horses, and the hunters, and the hunted by turns. Bands of these
little Crows scarcely past toddling ranged the camp, keeping dogs, ponies, and
women in a constant state of unrest. Occasional justice was meted out to them
with a pony-whip, but in proportions much less than their deserts. Being hungry,
White Weasel plodded home to his mother's lodge, and finding a buffalo rib
roasting near the fire he appropriated it. It was nearly as large as himself,
and when he had satisfied his appetite, his face and hands were most appallingly
greased. Seeing this, his mother wiped him off, but not as thoroughly as his
condition called for, it must be admitted. Falling back on a buffalo robe,
little Weasel soon fell into a deep slumber, during which a big dog belonging to
the tent made play to complete the squaw's washing, by licking all the grease
from his face and hands. In due course he arose refreshed and ready for more
mischief. The first opportunity which presented itself was the big dog, which
was sleeping outside. "He is a young pony; I will break him to bear a man," said
Weasel to himself. Straightway he threw himself on the pup, grasping firmly with
heel and hand. The dog rose suddenly with a yell, and nipped one of Weasel's
legs quite hard enough to bring his horse-breaking to a finish with an answering
yell. The dog made off, followed by hissing imprecations from Ba-cher-hish-a,
who rubbed the little round leg and crooned away his tears. He was not long
depressed by the incident. Now all small Indian boys have a regard for prairie-
dog or marmot's flesh, which is akin to the white boy's taste for candy balls
and cream paste. In order to satisfy it the small Indian must lie out on the
prairie for an hour under the broiling sun, and make a sure shot in the bargain.
The white boy has only to acquire five cents, yet in the majority of cases that
too is attended by almost overwhelming difficulties. With three other boys White
Weasel repaired to the adjoining dog-town, and having located from cover a fat
old marmot whose hole was near the outskirts of the village, they each cut a
tuft of grease-weed. Waiting until he had gone inside, they ran forward swiftly
and threw themselves on the ground behind other dog mounds, putting up the
grease-weed in front of themselves. With shrill chirping, all the marmots of
this colony dived into their holes and gave the desert over to silence. After a
long time marmots far away from them came out to protest against the intrusion.
An old Indian warrior sitting on a near-by bluff, nursing morose thoughts, was
almost charmed into good nature by the play of the infant hunters below him. He
could remember when he had done this same thing--many, many grasses ago. More
grasses than he could well remember. The sun had drawn a long shadow before the
fat marmot showed his head above the level of his intrenchments--his fearful
little black eyes set and his ears straining. Three other pairs of black eyes
and one pair of blue ones snapped at him from behind the grease-weed. There
followed a long wait, after which the marmot jumped up on the dirt rim which
surrounded his hole, and there waited until his patience gave out. With a sharp
bark and a wiggling of his tail he rolled out along the plain, a small ball of
dusty fur. To the intent gaze of the nine-year-olds he was much more important
than can be explained from this view-point. Having judged him sufficiently far
from his base, the small hunters sprang to their knees, and drove their arrows
with all the energy of soft young arms at the quarry. The marmot made a gallant
race, but an unfortunate blunt-head caught him somewhere and bowled him over.
Before he could recover, the boys were upon him, and his stage had passed.
Carrying the game and followed by his companions, Weasel took it home to his
foster-mother, who set to skinning it, crooning as she did in the repeated sing-
song of her race:--

"My son is a little hunter,       My son is a little hunter,       Some day the
buffalo will fear him,       Some day the buffalo will fear him,       Some day
the buffalo will fear him,"

and so on throughout the Indian list until the marmot was ready for cooking. So
ran the young life of the white Crow. While the sun shone, he chased over the
country with his small fellows, shooting blunt arrows at anything living of
which they were not afraid. No one corrected him; no one made him go to bed
early; no one washed him but the near-by brook; no one bothered him with stories
about good little boys; in fact, whether he was good or bad had never been
indicated to him. He was as all Crow boys are--no better and no worse. He shared
the affections of his foster-parents with several natural offspring, and shared
in common, though the camp took a keen interest in so unusual a Crow. Being by
nature bright and engaging, he foraged on every camp kettle, and made the men
laugh as they lounged in the afternoon shade, by his absurd imitations of the
war and scalp dances, which he served up seriously in his infant way. Any white
man could see at a glance that White Weasel was evolved from a race which,
however remote from him, got its yellow hair, fair skin, and blue eyes amid the
fjords, forests, rocks, and ice-floes of the north of Europe. The fierce sun of
lower latitudes had burned no ancestor of Weasel's; their skins had been
protected against cold blasts by the hides of animals. Their yellow hair was the
same as the Arctic bear's, and their eyes the color of new ice. Little Weasel's
fortunes had taken him far afield. He was born white, but he had a Crow heart,
so the tribesmen persuaded themselves. They did not understand the laws of
heredity. They had never hunted those. CHAPTER III

THE COMING OF THE GREAT SPIRIT

With the years White Weasel spindled up into a youth whose legs quite naturally
fitted around the barrel of a horse. He no longer had to climb up the fore leg
of a camp-pony, but could spring on to those that ran in his father's herd and
maintain his position there. Having observed this, one night his foster-father
said to him: "You are old enough, my son, to be trusted with my ponies out in
the hills. You must begin to study the ponies, or you will never be able to take
or hold any of your own. Not to have horses is not to hunt buffalo or go to the
enemy, and not to have a wife. Go, then, when the morning comes, with your
brother, and watch my herd. See that they feed safely; see that by evening they
come to the lodges. You are old enough now to wear the loin-cloth; you must
begin to be a man. You will never find your shadow-self here among the noisy
lodges; it will only come to you out in the quiet of the hills. The Bad Spirits
always have their arms out to clutch you when you are asleep in the night; as
you ride in the shadows; when you ford the waters,--they come in the wind, the
rain, the snow; they point the bullet and the battle-axe to your breast, and
they will warn the Sioux when you are coming after their ponies. But out in the
hills the Sak-a-war-te[1] will send some bird or some little wolf to you as his
friend; in some way he will talk to you and give a sign that will protect you
from the Bad Gods. Do not eat food or drink water; pray to him, and he will come
to you; if he does not, you will be lost. You will never see the Spiritland when
your body lies flat on the ground and your shadow has gone." [1] Great Spirit of
the Crows. After saying this, his father's pipe died out, the mother put no more
dry sticks on the fire, the shapes along the lodge walls died away in the gloom,
and left the youth awake with a new existence playing through his brain. He was
to begin to be a man. Already he had done in play, about the camp, the things
which the warriors did among the thundering buffalo herds; he had imitated the
fierce nervous effort to take the enemy's life in battle and the wolfish quest
after ponies. He had begun to take notice of the great difference between
himself and the girls about the camp; he had a meaning which they did not; his
lot was in the field. Before the sun rose he was one of the many noisy boys who
ran about among the horses, trailing his lariat to throw over some pony which he
knew. By a fortunate jerk he curled it about one's neck, the shy creature
crouching under its embracing fold, knowing full well the awful strangle which
followed opposition. With ears forward, the animal watched the naked youth, as
he slowly approached him along the taut rope, saying softly; "Eh-ah-h-h--um-m-m-
um-m-m--eh-h-h-h-h." Tying the rope on the horse's jaw, with a soft spring he
fixed himself on its back, tucking his loin-cloth under him. Now he moved to the
outskirts of the thronging horses, crying softly to them as he and his brother
separated their father's stock from that of the neighbor herds. He had done this
before, but he had never been responsible for the outcome. The faint rose of the
morning cut the trotting herd into dull shadowy forms against the gray grass,
and said as plain as any words could to White Weasel: "I, the sun, will make the
grass yellow as a new brass kettle from the traders. I will make the hot air
dance along the plains, and I will chase every cloud out of the sky. See me
come," said the sun to White Weasel. "Come," thought the boy in reply, "I am a
man." For all Indians talk intimately with all things in nature; everything has
life; everything has to do with their own lives personally; and all nature can
speak as well as any Crow. Zigzagging behind the herd, they left the smell of
smoke, carrion, and other nameless evils of men behind them, until the bark of
wolf-dogs dulled, and was lost to their ears. Daylight found the two boys
sitting quietly, as they sped along beside the herd of many-colored ponies. To
look at the white boy, with his vermilioned skin, and long, braided hair, one
would expect to hear the craunch and grind of a procession of the war-cars of
ancient Gaul coming over the nearest hill. He would have been the true part of
any such sight. "Brother," spoke his companion, "we must never shut our eyes.
The Cut-Arms are everywhere; they come out of the sky, they come out of the
ground to take our horses. You must watch the birds floating in the air; they
will speak to you about the bad Indians, when you learn their talk; you must
watch the wolves and the buffalo, and, above all, the antelope. These any one
can understand. We must not let the ponies go near the broken land or the trees.
The ponies themselves are fools, yet, if you will watch them, you will see them
turn slowly away from an enemy, and often looking back, pointing with their
ears. It may be only a bear which they go away from; for the ponies are fools--
they are afraid of everything. The grass has been eaten off here by these
buffalo, and the ponies wander. I will ride to the high hill, while you,
brother, bring the herd slowly. Watch me, brother; I may give the sign of
danger." Saying which, the older boy loped gracefully on ahead. All day the herd
grazed, or stood drooping, as the sun made its slow arc over the sky, while the
boys sat on the ground in the shadows cast by their mounts, their eyes
ceaselessly wandering. Many were the mysteries of horse-herding expounded by the
one to the other. That the white Absaroke was hungry, it was explained, made no
difference. Absarokes were often hungry out in the hills. The Dakotah were worse
than the hunger, and to lose the ponies meant hunger in their father's lodge.
This shadow-day herding was like good dreams; wait until the hail beat on the
ponies' backs, and made them run before it; wait until the warriors fought about
the camp, defending it; then it was hard work to hold them quietly. Even when
the snow blew all ways at the same time, the Cut-Throats might come. White
Weasel found a world of half-suspected things all coming to him at once, and
gradually a realizing sense stole over him that the ponies and the eating and
the land were very serious things, all put here for use and trouble to the
Absaroke. As the days wore on, the birds and the wild animals talked to the boy,
and he understood. When they plainly hovered, or ran wildly, he helped to gather
up the ponies and start them toward the lodges. If the mounted scouts came
scurrying along the land, with the white dust in a long trail behind them, he
headed for the cottonwoods with the herd, galloping. At times the number of the
ponies in his charge changed, as his father won or lost at the game of "hand";
but after the dried-meat moon his father had brought home many new ponies from
the camps of the Cut-Arms toward the Morning. His father had often spoken praise
of him beside the lodge-fire, and it made him feel good. He was beginning to be
a man, and he was proud of it; he would be a warrior some day, and he would see
that nothing hurtful happened to his father's horses. It was now the month of
the cold moon. [2] The skies were leaden at times; the snow-laden winds swept
down from the mountains, and in the morning Weasel's skin was blue and bloodless
under his buffalo-robe when he started out for the hills, where the wind had
swept the snow off from the weeds and grass. Never mind, the sun of the yellow
grass had not cooked the ambition out of him, and he would fight off the arrows
of the cold. [2] December. His brother, being older, had at last succumbed to
his thirst for glory. He had gone with some other boys to try his fortune on
other people's horses. Weasel was left alone with the herd. His father often
helped him to take the ponies out to good grazing, and then left him. The
Absaroke had been sore pressed by the Indians out on the plains, and had retired
to the Chew-c√¢r√¢-√¢sh-Nitishic[3] country, where the salt-weed grew. Here they
could be pushed no farther. Aided by the circling wall of mountain, their own
courage, and their fat horses, they could maintain themselves. Their scouts lay
far out, and the camp felt as much security as a wild people can ever feel. [3]
Big Horn Basin. One day, as usual, Weasel had taken his ponies far away to fresh
feed, that near the camps having been eaten off. The day was bright, but heavy,
dense clouds drifted around the surrounding mountain-tops, and later they
crawled slowly down their sides. Weasel noticed this as he sat shivering in his
buffalo-robe; also he noticed far away other horse herds moving slowly toward
the Arsha-Nitishic, along whose waters lay the camp of his people. He began to
gather his ponies and rode circling about. They acted wildly--strung out and
began to run. Glancing about, Weasel saw many big gray wolves loping along in
unison with his charges. It was not strange that wolves were in the vicinity of
Indians. The wolves, the ravens, and the Indians were brothers in blood, and all
followed the buffalo herds together. A lame or loose pony or a crippled Indian
often went the way of the wolves, and many wolves' hides passed over the
trader's counter. Thus they always got along together, with the raven last at
the feast. As Weasel turned his nervous eye about him, he knew that he had never
seen so many wolves before. He had seen dozens and dozens, but not so many as
these. They were coming in nearer to the horses--they were losing their fear.
The horses were running--heads up, and blowing with loud snorts. Weasel's pony
needed no whip; his dorsal action was swift and terrific. The wolves did not
seem to pay particular attention to him--they rather minded the herd. They
gathered in great numbers at the head of the drove. Weasel could have veered off
and out of the chase. He thought of this, but his blue eyes opened bravely and
he rode along. A young colt, having lost its mother, ran out of the line of
horses, uttering whinnies. Instantly a dozen gray forms covered its body, which
sank with a shriek, as Weasel flashed by. The leading ponies stopped suddenly
and ran circling, turning their tails to the wolves, kicking and squealing
viciously. The following ones closed up into the compact mass of horses, and
Weasel rode, last of all, into the midst of them. What had been a line of
rushing horses two arrow-flights long before, was now a closely packed mass of
animals which could have been covered by a lariat. In the middle of the bunch
sat Weasel, with his legs drawn up to avoid the crushing horses. It was all very
strange; it had happened so quickly that he could not comprehend. He had never
been told about this. Were they really wolves, or spirits sent by the Bad Gods
to destroy the boy and his horses? [Illustration: "IN THE MIDDLE OF THE BUNCH
SAT WEASEL."] All his waking hours had been spent with the ponies; he knew no
other world; he had scarcely had any other thoughts. He was with them now, but
instead of his protecting them they were protecting him. With their tails turned
toward the circling mass of devil-animals, they struck and lashed when attacked.
Nothing was heard but the snap of teeth, the stamp of hooves, the shrill
squealing of horses, with an occasional thud followed by a yelp. The departing
sun stole for a moment through a friendly rift in the clouds, encrimsoning the
cold snow, and then departed, leaving the gray tragedy to the spirits of the
night. The smoke eddied from the top of the lodges; a bright spark showed from
time to time as some one lifted an entrance flap; the ponies huddled in the
dense bush; the dogs came out and barked at the wilderness of never ending
plain. All was warmth and light, friendship, and safety,--even the baying wolf-
dogs were only defying the shades and distances out beyond for their own
amusement; it was perfunctory. "Why does not my son come in with the ponies?"
asked the foster-father of his squaw, but she could only answer, "Why?" Wrapping
his robe about him, he walked to the edge of the camp and stood long squinting
across the dusky land. He saw nothing to encourage him. Possibly the ponies had
come in, but why not the boy? Oh! that was possible! That had happened! A long
walk failed to locate the horses. Then he spoke to a chief, and soon all was
excitement. "The little white Crow and his horses have not come in," was
repeated in every lodge. "The Sioux! The Sioux!" spoke the echo. It was too dark
for a search. "The Sioux" was the answer to every question, and no one hunted
the Sioux by night. They might even now be on the outskirts. Swiftly the scouts
made their way to the outposts. The warriors loaded their guns, and the women
put out the fires. Every dog howled with all the energy of his emotional nature.
There was no sleep for the Absaroke camp. It was seldom that an enemy got by the
far-riding watchers of the Crow camps, but there was always a fear. It had
happened. Ba-cher-hish-a sobbed and wailed all night in her lodge, while the
foster-father walked outside, speculating endlessly with his friends. Long
before day he was mounted, and with a small party far on the way to the herd-
grounds which he had chosen the day before. As the plain began to unfold itself
to their straining eyes, their quick ears ran ahead of them. A snarling, a
horse-squealing, a curious medley of sounds, bore on them. Being old men, they
knew. "It is the wolves," said they, almost in a chorus. Forward with a rush, a
shrill yelling, and firing, swept the little party. The sun strove mightily to
get over the mountains to help them. They now saw the solid mass of horses, with
the wolves scurrying away on all sides. A faint answering human whoop came from
the body of the beleaguered horse band. As the rescuers rode up, the ponies
spread out from each other. Relieved from the pressure of the slimy fangs, the
poor animals knew that men were better than wolves. Some of them were torn and
bloody about the flanks; a few lay still on the snow with their tendons cut; but
best of all which the Indians saw was little White Weasel sitting in the midst
of the group. He allowed his robe to fall from his tight clutch. The men pushed
their horses in among the disintegrating bunch. They saw that the boy's lips
were without color, that his arms hung nerveless, but that his brave, deep eyes
were open, and that they showed no emotion. He had passed the time of fear, and
he had passed the time for hope, long hours ago. They lifted him from his horse,
and laid him on the ground, covered with many robes, while willing hands kneaded
his marbled flesh. A fire was built beside him, and the old men marvelled and
talked. It was the time when the gray wolves changed their hunting-grounds. Many
had seen it before. When they sought the lower country, many grasses ago, to get
away from the snow, one had known them to eat a Crow who happened in their way;
this when he was a boy. The wolves did not always act like this--not every snow.
Sudden bad storms in the mountains had driven them out. The horse herds must be
well looked after for a time, until the flood of wolves had passed down the
valley. The tired ponies stood about on the plain with their heads down. They,
too, had become exhausted by the all-night fight. The sun came back, warm and
clear, to see a more cheerful scene than it had left. Little Weasel spoke weakly
to his father: "The Great Spirit came to me in the night, father,--the cold wind
whispered to me that White Weasel must always carry a hoof of the white stallion
in his medicine-bag. 'It is the thing that will protect you,' said the wind. The
white stallion lies over there--cut down behind. Kill him, and give me one of
his rear hooves, father." Accordingly, the noble beast, the leader of the horses
in battle, was relieved of what was, at best, useless suffering,--sacrificed to
the gods of men, whom he dreaded less than the wolves,--and his wolf-smashing
hoof did useful things for many years afterward. CHAPTER IV

CROOKED-BEAR

White Weasel's tough body soon recovered from the freezing night's battle
between the animals. It had never been shielded from the elements, and was meat
fed. The horses ate grass, because their stomachs were so formed, but he and the
wolves ate meat. They had the canines. In justice to the wolves, it must be said
that all three animals represented in the fight suffered in common; for if the
boy had chilled veins, and the ponies torn flanks, many wolves were stiffened
out on the prairie with broken ribs, smashed joints or jaws, to die of hunger.
Nature brings no soup or warmth to the creature she finds helpless.
[Illustration]

The boy's spiritual nature had been exalted by the knowledge that the Good God
had not only held him in His saving arms during the long, cold, snarling night,
but He had guaranteed his continual protection and ultimate salvation. That is
no small thing to any person, but to the wild man, ever in close communion with
the passing of the flesh, to be on intimate terms with the something more than
human is a solace that dwellers in the quiescent towns are deadened to. The boy
was not taught physical fear, but he was taught to stand in abject awe of things
his people did not understand, and, in consequence, he felt afraid in strange
places and at inopportune times. One evening, as the family to which White
Weasel belonged sat about the blaze of the split sticks in their lodge, Fire-
Bear, the medicine-man, entered, and sat down to smoke his talk with the foster-
father. Between the long puffs he said: "Crooked-Bear wants us to bring the
white Absaroke to him. The hot winds have come down the valley, and the snow has
gone, so we can go to the mountains the next sun. Will you go with me and take
the boy? The Absaroke must do as the Crooked-Bear says, brother, or who knows
what may happen to us? The old man of the mountain is strong." After blinking
and smoking for a time the foster-father said: "The boy's and Crooked-Bear's
skins are of the same color; they are both Sparrowhawks in their hearts. His
heart may be heavy out there alone in the mountains--he may want us to leave the
boy by his fire. Ba-cher-hish-a would mourn if this were done. I fear to go,
brother, but must if he ask it. We will be ready when the morning comes." When
the dark teeth of the eastern mountains bit into the gray of approaching day,
the two old Indians and the boy were trotting along, one behind the other. The
ponies slithered in the pools and little rivulets left by the melted snow, but
again taking the slow, steady, mountainous, stiff-legged, swinging lope across
the dry plain, they ate the flat miles up, as only those born on the desert know
how to do. The boy had often heard of the great Crow medicine-man up in the
mountains near where the tribe hovered. He seldom came to their lodges, but the
Indians frequently visited him. Weasel had never seen him, for the boys of the
camp were not permitted to go near the sacred places where the old man was
found. He had requested this of the chiefs, and the Absaroke children drank the
mystery and fear of him with their mothers' milk. He was one of the tribal
institutions, a matter of course; and while his body was denied them, his advice
controlled in the council-lodges. His were the words from God. Weasel was in the
most tremendous frame of mind about this venture. He was divided between
apprehension and acute curiosity. He had left his mother sobbing, and the drawn
face of his father served only to tighten his nerves. Why should the great man
want to see White Weasel, who was only a herd-boy? Was it because his hair and
his eyes were not the color of other boys'? He was conscious of this difference.
He knew the traders were often red and yellow like him, and not brown and black
as the other people were. He did not understand the thing, however. No one had
ever said he was anything else than an Absaroke; he did not feel otherwise.
Approaching the mountains, the travellers found the snow again, and climbed more
slowly along the game-trails. They had blinded their path by following up a
brook which made its way down a coul√©e. No one left the road to Crooked-Bear's
den open to the prowling enemy. That was always understood. Hours of slow
winding took them high up on the mountains, the snow growing deeper and less
trodden by wild animals, until they were among the pines. Making their way over
fallen logs, around jagged boulders, and through dense thickets, they suddenly
dropped into a small wooded valley, then up to the foot of the towering terraces
of bare rock, checkered with snow, where nothing came in winter, not even the
bighorns. Soon Weasel could smell fire, then dogs barked in the woods up in
front. Fire-Bear called loudly in deep, harsh Indian tones, and was answered by
a man. Going forward, they came first to the dogs,--huge, bold creatures,--
bigger and different than any Weasel had ever seen. Then he made out the figure
of a man, low in tone and softly massed against the snow, and beside him a cabin
made of logs set against the rock wall. This was Crooked-Bear. Weasel's mind had
ceased to act; only his blue eyes opened in perfect circles, seemed awake in
him, and they were fixed on the man. The big dogs approached him without
barking,--a bad sign with dogs. Weasel's mind did not concern itself with dogs.
In response to strange words from the white medicine-man they drew away. Weasel
sat on his pony while the older men dismounted and greeted Crooked-Bear. They
did not shake hands--only "hat-wearers" did that. Why should an Indian warrior
lose the use of his right hand for even an instant? His hand was only for his
wife and children and his knife. In response to the motion of his father's hand,
the boy slid off his pony. Taking him by the shoulder, the father drew him
slowly toward Crooked-Bear until they were directly in each other's presence.
Weasel's eyes could open no farther. His whole training was that of an Indian.
He would not have betrayed his feelings under any circumstances; he was also a
boy, and the occasion was to him so momentous that he was receiving impressions,
not giving them. A great and abiding picture was fast etching itself on his
brain; his spongelike child-mind drank up every drop of the weird situation. He
had seen a few white men in his life. He had not forgotten Virginia City, though
terror had robbed him of his powers of observation during that ordeal. He had
seen the traders at the post; he had seen the few white or half-white men who
lived with his people, but they were not like this one. The old man of the
mountain[4] was crooked as his name implied. He also suggested a bear. He looked
rude even to the Indians. It seemed that Nature had laid her hands on his
shoulder and telescoped him together. He was humpbacked. His arms and legs were
as other men's are, though his shortened body made his hands fall to his knees.
[4] Old timers in Montana may remember a deformed man of wild mien and
picturesque apparel who used to come into the mountain towns (there were none on
the plains then) at rare intervals to do a little trading, with gold dust in
payment. He would then depart for the Indian country, which was almost totally
unknown to the mining people, and was often followed as far as white men dared
to go. He was always a mystery. The Indians had driven the old trapping-men from
the country, upon the approach of the white tide, and as yet the buffalo-hunter
and cow-boy had not made their appearance. He was dressed in Indian buckskin,
greased to a shine and bronzed by smoke. He leaned on a long breech-loading
rifle, and carried a huge knife and revolver in his belt. His hat was made of
wolfskin after the Indian fashion, from underneath which fell long brown hair,
carefully combed, in profuse masses. Seen closely he was not old--merely past
middle life. His strong features were weather-stained and care-hardened. They
were sculptured with many an insistent dig by Nature, the great artist; she had
gouged deep under the brows; she had been lavish in the treatment of the nose;
she had cut the tiger lines fearlessly, but she had covered the mouth and lost
the lower face in a bush of beard. More closely, the whole face was open, the
eyes mild, and all about it was reposeful--sad resolution dominated by a dome of
brain. Weasel warmed under the gaze of the kind face--the eyes said nothing but
good; they did more than that: they compelled him to step forward toward the
strange figure, who put his hand on Weasel's shoulder and led him tenderly in
the direction of the cabin door. Weasel had lost his fear and regained the use
of his mind. As the men stooped almost on hands and knees to enter the den of
Crooked-Bear, they were greeted by the acrid smell of smouldering ashes, and
probably by other odors native to their noses. Crooked-Bear stirred the ashes
and laid split wood on them. It was pine which spat and broke out in a bright
flame, painting the wild figures against the smoked logs and rock wall. It
illumined a buffalo-covered bunk, piles of _parfl√®che_ full of dried meat, a
saddle and pack panniers, cooking pots and pans on the hearth, all deeply
sooted, a table and chair made with an axe, and in one corner some shelves,
equally rude, piled with brown and dirty books. Many small knick-knacks intruded
their useful presence as one looked with more care, but the whole was the den of
a man of some remote century. The sabre-toothed tiger might snarl at the door
but for the Sharp's rifle standing in the corner; that alone made time and
distance. "Your ponies must starve to-night, brother," spoke Crooked-Bear. "Go
put them in my house where the horses live in summer-time. It is cold up here in
the mountains--we have even no cottonwoods for them to eat. The bear and the
wolves will not spring on them, though the big cats are about." All this said
the white man in the language of the Absaroke, though it may be said it sounded
strange in Weasel's ear. When he spoke to the dogs, the boy could not understand
at all. While the Indians looked after their ponies, the white man roasted meat
and boiled coffee. On their return, seeing him cooking, Fire-Bear said:
"Brother, you should have a squaw to do that. Why do you not take Be-Sha's
daughter? She has the blood of the yellow-eyes in her. She would make your fire
burn." "Tut, tut," he replied, "no woman would make my fire burn. My fire has
gone out." With a low laugh, Crooked-Bear added, "No woman would stay long up
here, brothers; she would soon run away." Fire-Bear said nothing, for he did not
understand. He himself would follow and beat the woman and make her come back,
but he did not say so. Having eaten, and passed the pipe, Fire-Bear asked the
hermit how the winter was passing--how the dry meat was lasting--what fortune
had he in hunting, and had any enemies beset him? He was assured his good
friends, the Absaroke, had brought him enough dry meat, after the last fall
hunt, to last him until he should no longer need it. The elk were below him, but
plentiful, and his big dogs were able to haul enough up the hills on his sleds.
He only feared for his tobacco, coffee, and ammunition; that had always to be
husbanded, being difficult to get and far to carry. Further, he asked his
friend, the Indian, to take some rawhides back to the women, to be dressed and
made into clothes for his use. "Has my brother any more talking papers from the
yellow-eyes? Do the white men mean to take the Sioux lands away from them? The
Sioux asked the Absaroke last fall to help drive the white men out of the
country, saying, 'If they take our lands to dig their badger-holes in, they will
soon want yours.' The Absaroke would not help the Cut-Throats[5]; for they are
dogs--they wag their tails before they bite," spoke Fire-Bear. [5] The Sioux.
"Yes, brother," replied Crooked-Bear; "if you should, by aiding the Sioux, get
rid of the white men, and even this you would not be able to do,--you would
still have the Sioux, who are dogs, always ready to bite you. No, brother, have
nothing to do with them, as I have counselled you. The Sak-a-war-te said this to
me: 'Before the grass on the plains shoots, send a strong, fat-horse war-party
to the enemy and strike hard. Sweep their ponies away--they will be full of
sticks and bark, not able to carry their warriors that moon; tear their lodges
down and put their fires out; make their warriors sit shivering in the plum
bushes. That is the way for the Crows to have peace.' The Great Spirit has said
to me: 'Tell the Absaroke that they can never run the buffalo on the plains in
peace, until the Chis-chis-chash, the Dakotahs, and the Piegan dare not look
them in the face. That, and that only, is the path.'" Far into the night the men
talked of the tribal policy--it was diminutive statesmanship, commercial
politics with buffalo meat for money. As Crooked-Bear sat on his hewn chair, he
called the boy to him, put his arm around him, and stood him against his knee.
The youth's head rose above the rugged face of the master of Indian mystery; he
was in his first youth, his slender bones had lengthened suddenly in the last
few years, and the muscles had tried hard to catch up with them. They had no
time to do more than that, consequently Weasel was more beautiful than he would
ever be again. The long lines of grace showed under the tight buckskins, and his
face surveyed the old man with boyish wonder. Who can know what the elder
thought of him in return? Doubtless he dreamed of the infinite possibilities of
so fine a youth. He whose fire had gone out mused pleasantly as he long regarded
the form in whom they were newly lighted. [Illustration: "HE CALLED THE BOY TO
HIM AND PUT HIS ARM AROUND HIM."] Slowly he began to speak, using the Indian
forms of speech, and supplementing them with the gestures which only Indians can
command. "Brother, we have lived a long time. We have made the medicine strong
for the Absaroke. We have taken the words of the Good Gods to the council-lodge
when the tribe ran wildly and knew not which way to turn. We will follow soon
the others who have gone to the Shadowland. The Absaroke will be left behind,
and they must have wise men to guide them when we are gone. This young man will
be one of those--I have seen that in my dreams. He must stay here with me in the
lonely mountains, and I will teach him the great mystery of the white men,
together with that of the people of his own tribe. He will visit his father's
lodge whenever his heart is hungry. He owes it to himself and to his people to
grow strong in the mystery, and then some day the tribe will lean on him. Shall
he stay, brothers?" White Weasel, with arms dropped to his side, made no move.
The flame from the hearth lighted one of his starlike eyes as it stood open,
regardful of the strange old man. The Indians passed the pipe, and for a long
time there was no sound save the snapping of the fire and the pines outside
popping with the cold. At last Fire-Bear spoke: "We have had our ears open,
brother. Your talk is good. The Sak-a-war-te demands this. The boy shall stay."
Weasel's foster-father held his peace. His was the sacrifice, but the Great
Spirit could not ask too much of him. In reply to another inquiry, he said that
the boy should stay; then wrapping himself in his robe, he lay down before the
fire to hide his weakness. "Will you stay with me?" asked the Wonder-Worker of
the boy, stroking his yellow hair and pouring the benevolence of his fire-
lighted face in a steady stream on the youth. "You have no ponies to herd,
father. What shall I do?" he asked. "I have no ponies for you to herd, but I
have many mysteries here," tapping the boy's forehead with his finger, "for you
to gather up and feed on, and they are greater than ponies." "I will stay,
father." CHAPTER V

THE WHITE MEDICINE

That the sun rose with customary precision made little difference to the
sleepers in the mountain den. Little of its light crept down the hole against
the rock wall, and none of it penetrated the warm buffalo-robes. The dogs,
growing uneasy, walked about and scratched at the door; they had not been
disturbed by last night's vigil. Waking, one by one, the men threw off the robes
and went out; all but the boy, who lay quite still, his vitality engaged in
feeding the growing bones and stretching muscles. Out by the stable Crooked-Bear
said: "Take your ponies and that of the boy and ride away. They will starve
here, and you must go before they weaken and are unable to carry you. A boy
changes his mind very quickly, and he may not think in the sunlight what he did
in the firelight. I will be kind to him. Tell Ba-cher-hish-a that her son will
be a great chief in a few grasses." Silently, as only the cats and the wolves
and the Indians conduct themselves, the men with the led horses lost themselves
among the trees, leaving Crooked-Bear standing by his abode with the two great
cross-bred mastiffs, on their hind legs, leaning on him and trying to lick his
face. As they stood together, the dogs were taller than he, and all three of
them about the same color. It was a fantastic scene; a few goblins, hoarse
mystery birds, Indian devils, and what not beside, might have been added to the
group and without adding to its strangeness. Weasel had found a most unearthly
home; but as he awoke and lay looking about the cabin, it did not seem so
awfully strange. Down through the ages--borne through hundreds of wombs--in some
mysterious alcove of the boy's brain had survived something which did not make
the long-haired white man working about the fire, the massive dogs, the skins of
wild animals, the sooty interior, look so strange. As Weasel rose to a sitting
posture on the bunk, the dogs got up also. "Down with you! Down with you, Eric!
and you, Hope! You must not bother the boy," came the hermit's words of command.
The dogs understood, and lay heavily down, but their eyes shone through heavy
red settings as they regarded the boy with unarrested attention. "I am afraid of
your dogs, father; they are as big as ponies. Will they eat me?" "No; do not be
afraid. Before the sun goes over the mountains they will eat any one who would
raise his hand against you. Come, put your hand on their heads. The Indians do
not do this; but these are white dogs, and they will not bite any one who can
put his hand on their heads," spoke Crooked-Bear in his labored way with the
Indian tongue. He had never mastered all the clicks and clucks of it. The meat
being done, it was put on the table, and White Weasel was persuaded to undertake
his first development. The hermit knew that the mind never waits on a starved
belly, so he explained to the boy that only dogs ate on the ground. That was not
obvious to the youngster; but he sat in the chair and mauled his piece of meat,
which was in a tin plate. He drank his coffee out of a tin cup, which he could
see was full better than a hollow buffalo horn, besides having the extra
blandishment of sugar in it. As the hermit, occupying an up-turned pack-saddle
opposite, regarded the boy, he could see that Weasel had a full forehead--that
it was not pinched like an Indian's; he understood the deep, wide-open eyes
which were the color of new ice, and the straight, solemn nose appealed to him
also. The face was formal even to the statuesque, which is an easy way of saying
he was good-looking. The bearer of these messages from his ancestors to Crooked-
Bear quite satisfied him. He knew that the baby Weasel had been forcibly made to
enter a life from which he himself had in mature years voluntarily fled, and for
which neither was intended. They had entered from opposite doors only, and he
did not wish to go out again, but the boy might. He determined to show him the
way to undo the latching. After breakfast began the slow second lesson of the
white man's mystery. It was in the shape of some squaw's work, and again the boy
thought unutterable protests. Crooked-Bear had killed an elk the day before,
some considerable distance down the mountain, and taking his dogs with the
sledges, they sallied down to get it. What with helping to push the heavy loads
in aid of the dogs and his disgust of being on foot, at their noon home-coming
White Weasel's interest began to flag. Crooked-Bear noticed this, and put even
more sugar into the boy's coffee. He had a way of voicing half-uttered thoughts
to himself, using his native tongue, also repeating these thoughts as though to
re√´nforce them. "I must go slow--I must go slow, or the boy will balk. I must
lead him with a silken thread; the rawhide will not do--it will not do."
Meanwhile the growing youth passed naturally into oblivion on the bunk. "These
Indians are an indolent people," the prophet continued. "They work only by fits
and starts, but so am I indolent too. It befits our savage way of life," saying
which, he put some coffee-berries into a sack and began pounding them with an
axe. "I do not know--I do not remember to have been lazy; it does not matter now
if I am. No one cares, and certainly I do not. I have tramped these mountains in
all weathers; I have undergone all manner of hardships, yet they said I could
not be a soldier in the armies down south. Of course not--of course not; a
humpback could not be a soldier. He is fit only to swear at. Men would laugh at
a crooked-back soldier. _She_ could see nothing but my back. Ah--ah--it is past
now. Men and women are not here to see my back; the trees and the clouds, the
mountains and my dogs, do not look at my spine. The Indians say my back was bent
by my heavy thoughts. The boy there has a straight back, and I hope he may walk
among men. I will see that he does; I will give him the happiness which was
denied me, and it pleases me to think that I can do this. I will create a
happiness which the vicissitudes of this strange life seem to have denied him,
saying, 'Weasel, you are to be a starved and naked nomad of the plains.' No! no!
boy; you are not to be a starved and naked nomad of the plains. I have in my
life done no intentional evil, and also I have done no intentional good; now
this problem of the boy has come to me--how it reaches out its roots for the
nourishing things and how its branches spread for the storms!" Having
accompanied these thoughts by the beating of the axe, the hermit arose, and
stood gazing on the sleeping lad. "Oh, if I had only had your back!--oh! oh! oh!
But if only you had had my opportunities and education--well, I am not a god; I
am only a man; I will do what a man can." When the boy awoke, the hermit said,
"My son, did you ever make a gun speak?" "No; my father's gun hangs with his
mystery-bag on his reclining-mat, and a woman or child dare not lay their
fingers on it." "Would you like to make a gun talk?" came gently, but Weasel
could only murmur. The new and great things of life were coming fast to him. He
would almost have given his life to shoot a gun; to own one was like the
creation, and the few similar thoughts of men; it was beyond the stars.
"Weasel," said the man, taking up a carbine, and calling him by name,--which is
un-Indian,--"here is a gun; it loads in the middle; I give it to you; it is
yours." With which he handed the weapon to the boy. After some hesitation Weasel
took the gun, holding it stiffly in front of him, as an altar-boy might a sacred
thing. He could say nothing, and soon sat down, still holding the firearm,
regarding it for a long time. When he could finally believe he was not dreaming,
when he comprehended that he really did own a gun, he passed into an unutterable
peace, akin to nothing but a mother and her new-born child. His white father
stepped majestically from the earth that Weasel knew into the rolling clouds of
the unthought places. "To-morrow I will take my gun, and you will take your gun,
and we will walk the hills together. Whatever we see, be it man or beast, your
gun may speak first," proposed the prophet. "Yes, father, we will go out with
the coming of the sun. My heart is as big as the mountains; only yesterday I was
a herd-boy, now I own a gun. This brought it all to me," the boy said almost to
himself, as he fumbled a small bag hanging at his neck. The bag contained the
dried horse's hoof. Throwing back his long hair, the prophet fixed his face on
his new intellectual garden. He saw the weeds, and he hardly dared to pull them,
fearing to disturb the tender seeds which he had so lately planted. Carefully he
plucked at them. "No, my son, that was not your medicine which brought the gun,
but my medicine; the medicine of the white man brought it to you. The medicine
of the white man brought the gun to you because the Great Spirit knew you were a
white boy. The medicine of the white man is not carried in a buckskin bag; it is
carried here." And the prophet laid his finger on his own rather imposing brow;
he swept his hair away from it with a graceful gesture, and smiling on the
youth, he waited to see whether the seed had come up with the bad weed. Weasel's
hand left the bag, and followed down to the gun while he looked at his master.
It might be so; no Indian boy whom he knew had ever had a gun. This firearm
absorbed him, and the man felt it would continue to do so for some time to come;
therefore he said no more. Bright and early was the start of the hunters in the
morning. They left the dogs in the cabin, and with snow-shoes slung to their
backs, followed down the sledge-trail toward the bare foothills, where the game
was. In and out among the shadows of the pine trees passed the figures, vigorous
with the mountain ozone, and both happy in their respective ways. On reaching a
proper place, they adjusted the broad, oval rackets, and skirted along the
timber-line, watching the hills below them, from which the wind had blown the
snow. It was not difficult to find game in those days, before the coming of the
white men bearing their long-range rifles. Far out on the plain their trained
eyes saw the bands of antelope, and, nearer, herds of mule-deer working about in
the ravines. "But," said the boy, "my first shot must be at an elk or a bighorn,
father." "Come then, my son, we will go round this point of the hill, and on the
sunny southern slope we will find the elk--great bands of them. You shall shoot
one, and when you have done that, the herd-boy will be a hunter." As had been
predicted, in due course of their walk they beheld bands of elk lying about or
walking slowly, their yellow backs gleaming in the morning sun. The warm winds
from the valleys were coming up toward the arctic mountain-tops and away from
the elk. "Take off your snow-shoes, my son; they creak on the snow--the elk will
hear them; we must go down this ravine, and when we are near enough, you will
shoot." Under cover of the rocks and sparse pines they slowly made their well-
considered way noiselessly, the boy's eyes blazing with the hunter's lust, and
the old man watching him eagerly. From time to time the Weasel lifted his head
above the rim-rock of the ravine to note the position of their approach, but the
hermit's heedful eye bore only on his pupil. They had worked their way, after
the hunter manner, a long distance downward, and hoped soon to be in a position
for a safe shot. The ca√±on-like ravine which they were following narrowed
suddenly; the snow lay in deep drifts against its sides, making it necessary for
them to go slowly along the ledges of the rim-rock, the boy always first. As
they were about to round the point where the coul√©e tightened, a big yellow form
drifted like a wind-blown feather on to them; it suddenly appeared not twenty
feet from their faces, and it was a mountain-lion. Both the men and the animal
stopped, the men straightening up while the cougar crouched down. The cat bared
its fangs, the boy raised his carbine; both were in search of game, but neither
for what he had found. The gun reached its place; the coul√©e echoed with the
heavy report, and through the enveloping smoke flew the great cat as though also
impelled by gunpowder. The boy had not missed his mark, and the lion his only by
a small margin. The steep snowdrift yielded under his frantic claws, carrying
him many yards down the sides. "Load your gun and shoot him, Weasel; I shall not
shoot," came the hermit's voice. The position of his long rifle belied his
words, but the youth did not look behind. He fumbled for a cartridge, was slow
in working the strange mechanism of the arm, but he was ready by the time the
cat, much frustrated by the unresisting snow, had nearly reached him. Again the
ca√±on chorussed to the rifle, and as the heavy black powder-smoke drifted off on
the friendly wind, the boy saw that he had killed. All had happened too quickly
for his brain if not for his arm. "Load your gun," came the voice of command in
English. The tense situation made the new language strike Weasel's brain through
his ear as his bullet had struck the monster. The sound of it was what conveyed
the meaning, and the harsh bang of the words went home. An Indian would have had
to gluck and cluck and glut for half a minute to make these three words plain.
It would have sounded more like grace before meat than a command. Weasel again
broke his rifle and shoved the brass shell home, never looking elsewhere than at
the yellow spot of fur on the white snow below him, as its fierce electric
nerves slowly softened its expiring motions into quiet. He had never had even a
dream of victory such as had taken form before him. He had known old Indian
hunters who rode on a lion's skin in the ceremonial days, and he knew what
warriors in the tribe wore the grizzly bear-claw necklaces--every one knew those
men. Could it be that he would ride on a lion's skin? Could it be that he would
carry a gun which loaded in the middle? Yes, it could be if he only had a horse,
but ponies were easier than guns or lions' skins in the Indian world. What a
vista of power and glory opened in the boy's mind! What vanity of his could not
yet be satisfied? The hermit glanced over the rim-rock and saw the elk in long
lines trotting away; he could hear the joints cracking, but his cabin was full
of meat. "Boy, this was a white man's medicine-hunt. Could any Indian do that
for you?" But the boy heeded not; with a series of wolfish yells he slid down
the snowy incline toward his fallen foe. The hermit followed, and drawing their
knives, they raised the hide while the body was yet warm, taking head and tail
and claws. Weasel was delirious with joy; he laughed and jabbered and ki-yied,
while the pleased old man calculated that he had reduced the boy to a state of
mind when it was safe to burden his wild young charge with something quite as
serious for him as tigers' skins. He would make him begin his English. They made
their way back to the snow-shoes--back to the sledge-road--up to the cabin--
received a welcome from the dogs; but the coffee had less sugar than before.
Economy was a watchword with him who trailed his necessities over the long
journey from the traders on pack-ponies, and so the lion skin tacked on the wall
was enough for the boy. Gradually the man brought English words into the play of
conversation, and Weasel sought the key to the white medicine which had so
exalted him. The nouns came first, and he soon began to piece them out with
other parts of speech; his ear accustomed itself, and with it all came new and
larger thoughts carefully strewn in his way by the prophet. They hunted
together; did the little healthy work found in their simple manner of life which
no longer seemed fitted for women only; and the grave old man at last saw the
spark which he had lighted burst into flame. It was the warmth of human kindness
which is the base of everything ennobling to man. One day when the buds of the
leaves were beginning to show themselves, in response to nature's inviting
smiles, the dogs barked furiously. The two dwellers of the cabin seized their
rifles, ran out to places which had been selected by them for their strategic
advantages in calm moments, and waited. Before long they heard challenges in the
well-known Absaroke, which they answered. "Do not talk English to your people,
my son; they will not understand," said the hermit; but what he feared was their
suspicion of the transformation of the lad. The Absaroke, no more than the
Dakotahs, understood or loved the white man; they merely tolerated him for
tribal reasons. The prophet had ingratiated himself by fortunate circumstances
and an abounding tact. The newcomers were a dozen chiefs of the tribe, the boy's
Indian father among them. They drove a few led ponies belonging to Crooked-Bear,
which they were returning after their wintering with the Absaroke herds. The
quickly shooting mountain grasses would support them at this season. Long and
seemingly interminable talks followed the pipe about the prophet's blazing
hearth. He filled their minds with strong, sensible advice, re√´nforcing it by
supposed inspired sources, until the tobacco which he had appropriated for such
occasions gave out. It was a cheap and in fact the only way by which he could
purchase immunity from violence--a safe wintering for his ponies and his fall
supply of dried buffalo meat. His influence was boundless, and while he hoped
quite as much as the Indians that the white men would never come to these parts
during his lifetime, he also knew that they would. He heard reports that the
miners were invading the Sioux territory from the south; he knew gold, and he
knew white men, and he realized what the combination always produced. In this
strait he saw that the efforts of the Sioux would be so taxed to oppose the
progress that the Absaroke would profit by their preoccupation. His revelations
always favored the alliance between the Absaroke and the yellow-eyes. No one can
ever know how much this forgotten hermit of the Chew-c√¢r√¢-√¢sh-Nitishic did for
his race in the days when the Indians of the northern plains made their last
stand before the white men. The Indians from King Philip's time never understood
the powers, resources, and numbers of the white people. Even the Crows in those
days wavered before the boastful envoys of the neighbor tribes. The Indians had
hunted out of the country the Metis, the Pea-Soups, or the French half-breeds,
together with the white trappers, who had often contracted Indian marriages, and
who had followed the fortunes of the early fur trade. At that time old
frontiersmen like Norris, who had for years followed up and down the plains, and
across the range, admitted that a strong party of seasoned trappers was not safe
east of the Big Horn Mountains. The long palaver terminated with the Indians'
promise to send out war-parties against the other tribes. The Weasel was not
able to resist a very natural desire to go again to the camps, to visit his
foster-mother, the boys of his childhood, and deeper yet to bear the gun and the
lion's skin. The important men of the visiting party had come to regard White
Weasel with some sort of veneration; he had that about him which was not quite
understandable; he was supposed to be near the unknown Power. CHAPTER VI

JOHN ERMINE

For a few days after the departure of the boy the hermit felt depressed; he had
added a human interest to his life, which previously had been satisfied by
communion with nature alone. The bugs, the plants, the birds, the beasts, the
dogs, the hunting, had sufficed. The seat on the rock wall above the cabin,
where he mused, and where his eyes went forward over interminable miles of
cloud-flecked plain and tier after tier of ragged mountain ranges, had satisfied
him, while his mind wandered backward among the years before he became a hermit.
But shortly the time arrived when he was compelled to make his semiannual trip
with his pack-horses to the traders for his supplies of ammunition, of pots and
pans, of tobacco, blankets, and food-stuffs, without which he could not exist.
This journey was always tedious, hard, and dangerous; but he tried always to do
it while the horses of the enemy out on the plains were thin and as yet
unserviceable. With all the circumspection he was able to use, he had on several
occasions nearly lost his life; but needs must, he could renounce everything on
earth except his belly. However, this time he accomplished his journey, and
aside from straying ponies, turning packs, with the other inevitables of desert
life, he, safe and well provided, found his cabin again. The Indians had told
him that White Weasel had gone with a war-party. That was nothing;--all men in
the wild country were more or less at war all the time. "I hope the boy keeps
that corn-silk on his head," soliloquized the hermit; "also I think it would be
a good thing for the young savage if he is forced to leave other people's alone.
A fresh scalp in that boy's hand will make an extra year's work for me. It
cannot be helped--it cannot be helped; it is the law of nature, only that law
operates badly out here. What does it matter, however? The women can correct the
loss of a man more or less in the world." With the return of spring came the elk
and bighorn. They walked into his park and blew their whistles as they smelled
the odors from his hearth. The big gray bears came out of their winter caves and
rumbled past his door. These were his greatest foes, constantly stampeding his
ponies, even clawing at his heavy log horse-barn, where he always kept one horse
to hunt the others with, and trying to circumvent his meat-arbor,--a device hung
on a pole high up between two slender trees, which was operated up and down by a
rawhide rope. Small black bears often put this out of action, but the dogs were
usually able to chase these away. Not so with the silver-tips; for at times one
of the playful brutes would come round to indulge himself in the sport of
chasing Eric and Hope about the dooryard over their own preserves. They both had
been slashed and hugged at intervals in their youth, and so took the big bears
at their own estimate. The long, fifty-caliber rifle was called upon on such
occasions, and thus far with success. One day, at the beginning of summer, the
boy returned to the hermit's nest,--was barked at, challenged, and finally
greeted. "Have you blinded your ponies' trail carefully, coming up from the
valley? The enemy is abroad in the land these days," was asked and answered
satisfactorily. The boy's features, which were rather grave in response to the
seriousness of his life, were relaxed and beaming. There was an eagle feather in
his hair, hanging down behind. He led the pony loaned by the prophet, which bore
a bunch of buckskins, and was mounted on a fine animal, quite in the warrior
class, with a new elk-horn saddle. His panther skin was rolled behind him.
Dismounting, he carefully undid this, and from its folds drew forth a scalp--a
braid of long hair, the skin stretched on a wooden ring and half covered down
the plat with silver disks made of pounded silver dollars. "It was a Dakotah,
father, and I put his fire out with the medicine gun you gave me. I have danced
it with the warriors; I am a warrior now." The old man's worst fears had been
realized, but after eating he had the story from White Weasel. "When I reached
the village, my father's and mother's hearts grew big at the sight of my gun and
lion's skin. My mother had made the buckskins you sent down by my father into
clothes both for yourself and for myself." Here he presented the hermit with his
new dress, made beautiful with yellow ochre and with long fringes at back and
sleeves, and open at the front, as was the white man's custom. "Long-Horse," the
boy continued, "was making up a party to go to the Dakotahs. I asked to be one
of them, but he thought I was young. I said my medicine was strong and that my
horse was fat. He said I was young to learn the war-path secret, but after
smoking my talk he consented. I had only eight cartridges and one horse, all the
other Indians having two apiece. Your old pack-pony is a war-horse now, father;
he has carried a warrior," and the turquoise eyes gleamed brilliantly. "Long-
Horse had a big band; we made the war-path medicine and travelled many sleeps
with our backs to the sun. One morning our scouts found two men, an Absaroke and
a white man, and brought them in. They belonged to the white warriors' camp,
which was fighting the Dakotahs, who were all around them, and these men were
going for help. Long-Horse moved toward this place guided by the men we had met.
Before the sun was up, the Absaroke rode into the camp of the white soldiers,
and they were glad to see us. They had the white cloth lodges and many wagons,
but their horses had been taken by the Dakotahs and they had lost some soldiers.
The white men had put their dead men in the ground. I saw where they had dug in
the earth and left mounds such as the prairie-dog builds. The camp was on the
low ground, and back of this were bluffs. When the sun gave light, we could see
the Cut-Throats swarm on their hill as the ants do when you lift a stone. There
were five Cut-Throats to one white soldier, and the white men could not go out
to them. While the white men had no women, they had more wagons than I could
count, loaded with sugar and coffee until the wheels cut the ground. I never
knew there was so much coffee and sugar; where does it come from, father? The
white men are rich, and there are so few of them that each has more than he
wants. In a place of that kind the Absaroke would have run away, but the white
men cannot run, and they think more of the coffee and sugar than they do of
their own lives. It made my head weak when I saw the enemy; they rode swiftly;
they were all warriors, for they all had the war-feathers in their hair. They
had guns, and as they rode they made the gestures of women and snakes and dogs
at us. They rode away from a spot which they pointed at, and then they pointed
at us, saying we were buffalo that always ran away like this. Long-Horse and the
white chief, a big man with short hair, made a long talk. The Absaroke gave
their old travelling-ponies to the white warriors, who put their own saddles on
them. These white soldiers mounted the ponies on the wrong side, and tired as
the horses were, they jumped like rabbits under them. Though I was afraid of the
enemy, I had to laugh, father. "When we were ready, we charged the enemy, and
they fled before us; we followed them until they gained the rough hills. We
fired at the Dakotahs, and they fired at us, they always working backward in the
rough ca√±ons, where we were afraid to follow on horseback because Long-Horse
said they were trying to lead us into an ambuscade. All day we fought, although
very few were killed. At night the white soldiers and many Absaroke rode swiftly
back to the camp. Long-Horse with half of the Absaroke stopped in the strong
woods high up on one side of a ravine, and I stayed with them. I had only four
cartridges left. All night we lay there and allowed their scouts to go down the
ca√±on without firing on them. In the early morning we heard the Dakotahs coming;
they rode down the cut before our faces, not knowing we were there. When Long-
Horse gave his war-whoop, we all fired, and jumping on our ponies charged into
them. The ground was covered with dying horses and men. My heart grew big,
father; everything before my eyes swam red, and I do not remember much except
that I rode behind a big Dakotah and shot him in the back. He fell from his
horse to the ground and tried to gain his feet, but I rode the pack-pony over
him, knocking him down so that he lay still. I turned round and shot him again
before he died, and then I took his hair. He had a beautiful head-dress of
feathers, which I took, but I left his gun, for it was heavy and a poor one. I
chased his pony, the fine war-horse which is out in the stable. The Dakotahs who
were not killed had all run away, so I ran the dead man's pony back to camp,
where with the help of other Indians I caught him. Long-Horse was killed, and a
few Absaroke wounded, but we got many scalps, one of which is mine. "The white
soldiers took me to their lodge and gave me coffee which was heavy with sugar.
They spoke your language to me, but I could not understand much of it. A half-
Indian man talked the Absaroke for me in their tongue, and when I said I was a
Crow,--for that is what the white men call us,--they laughed until my heart grew
bad. They asked me if there were any more Crows whose hair was the color of the
dry grass, and then they continued to laugh. They said I must have been born on
a frosty morning. I did not know what to say, but I saw their hearts warmed to
me, and I did nothing. They gave me cartridges, blankets, sugar, and coffee,
until the old pack-pony could carry no more. The big chief of the white men
wanted me to stay with him, and promised to give me anything I wanted from the
wagons. He talked long with the warriors, asking them to leave me with him, and
the Absaroke said he could have me, but I did not want to stay. At one time I
thought the white soldiers were going to make me stay, for they took me on their
shoulders and carried me about the camp, laughing and yelling. I was afraid.
Those men were bigger than Indians, and, father, their arms were as hard and
strong as the gray bear's. They were always laughing; they roared like the
buffalo bulls. "My color is the same as theirs, father; many of them had hair
like mine, though they cut it short. I am a Crow, but I do not understand these
things." Whereat the boy fell into a deep meditation. Cautiously the hermit
approached. "Your heart warms to the white man, does it not, my son?" "Yes, all
white men are good to me; they give me everything I want; they are rich, and
their hearts are big. They do not know how to keep their horses; they are fools
about them, and they mount from the wrong side. I never heard a white man speak
to a horse in that camp. When they walk up to a pony, the pony does not know
whether they come as a friend or an enemy. Some day I am going to Ashar-Ra,[6]
where the white soldiers live. They told me that when I came they would load my
pony down with gifts. But I must first learn to talk as you do, father." [6]
Fort Ellis. Here, at last, was light to brighten the hopes of the hermit. The
boy's ambition had been aroused. What if he had gone to war, and what if he did
have the much-treasured scalp in his possession? He had only followed the
hermit's advice to his tribe concerning war. Then, too, the old man had picked
up newspapers at the traders' which told of the invasion of the Black Hills by
the white miners. He knew this would provoke war with the Sioux, and it occurred
to him that the best possible way to introduce White Weasel to his own people
would be through contact with the army. He could go with them, and they might
reclaim him. He could not possibly go through the industrial institutions, but
he must speak English. There was plenty of time for that, since he could kill
elk within a mile of his door with which to maintain himself. He would begin.
"Yes, you must work hard with me now to speak as the white men do. You will soon
be a man; you are no longer a boy. You are a white man, but you were brought up
by the Absaroke, and you will go back to your own people some day. The more you
see them, the better you will like them." "Why must I go to the white people,
father? You do not go to them, and you are a white man." The hunchback hermit
leaned with his head on his hands for a long time; he had not foreseen this.
Finally, "You will go because they are your own people; you will join them when
they fight the Sioux. You think there are not many of them. Weasel, I am not a
liar, and I say there are more white men on the earth than there are buffalo.
You are young, you are brave, and you are straight in the back; their hearts
will warm toward you. You will grow to be a white chief and own many wagons of
coffee and sugar. Some day, Weasel, you will want a white woman for a wife. You
have never seen a white woman; they are not like these red squaws; they are as
beautiful as the morning, and some day one of them will build a fire in your
heart which nothing but death can put out. "From now on I shall no longer call
you White Weasel, but will give you a white name which you must answer to. There
shall be no Indian mystery about it, and you shall bear it all your life. I will
call you,"--and here the hermit again relapsed into thought. "I will call you
John Ermine; that is a good strong white name, and when you are asked what it
is, do not say White Weasel,--say, 'My name is John Ermine.' Now say it!" And
the young man ran the thing over his tongue like a treble drag on a snare-drum.
"Now again, after me: 'My--name--is--John Ermine.'" And the prophet cut the
words apart with his forefinger. John Ermine tried his name again and again,
together with other simple expressions. The hermit ceased almost to address him
in the Indian tongue. The broad forehead responded promptly to the strain put
upon it. Before the snow came, the two had rarely to use the harsh language of
the tribesmen. Gradually the pressure was increased, and besides words the
hermit imposed ideas. These took root and grew in an alarming way after battling
strenuously with those he had imbibed during his youth. "And why is your name
Crooked-Bear, which is Indian, while you are white?" "My name is not Crooked-
Bear except to the Indians; my name is Richard Livingston Merril, though I have
not heard the sound of it in many snows and do not care to hear it in many more.
You can call me 'Comrade'; that is my name when you speak." Sitting by their
cabin door in the flecked sunlight which the pine trees distributed, the two
waded carefully across the lines of some well-thumbed book, taking many perilous
flying leaps over the difficult words, but going swiftly along where it was
unseasoned Saxon. The prophet longed for a paper and pencil to accelerate the
speed, but was forced to content himself with a sharp stick and the smoothed-out
dirt before him. At times he sprinkled his sensitive plant with some simple
arithmetic; again he lectured on the earth, the moon, and the stars. John Ermine
did not leave a flat earth for a round one without a struggle, but the tutor
ended up by carving a wooden ball which he balanced in his hand as he separated
the sea from the land; he averred that he had known many men who had been
entirely around it--which statement could not be disputed. White Weasel had
heard the men speak about the talking-wire and fire-wagon, but he did not
believe the tales. John Ermine had more faith, although it puzzled him sorely.
Raptly he listened to the long accounts of the many marvels back in the States,
and his little Sioux scalp took a new significance as he tried hard to
comprehend ten thousand men dying in a single battle of the Great White Man's
war. Ten thousand dead men was a severe strain on his credulity when Crooked-
Bear imposed it upon him. The ships which fought on the water he did not attempt
at all; they were not vivid enough for his contemplation. When were the white
men coming to the Indian lands? "Before you have a mustache, John Ermine, they
will come in numbers as great as the grasshoppers, but you will not care; you
are a white man." Last but not least the prophet removed himself from his Indian
pedestal in full sight of his ward. He was no prophet; he was only a man, and a
poor specimen at that. Simply, and divested of much perplexity, he taught the
Christian religion; told the story of Jesus, and had John Ermine repeat the Ten
Commandments, which last the teacher could only marshal after many days of
painful reflection, so vagrant are most men's memories as age creeps on. CHAPTER
VII

TRANSFORMATION

Four years were passed by John Ermine in the cabin of the old man of the
mountains, varied by visits to the Absaroke, which grew less frequent as he
progressed along the white man's road, rude though the hermit's was. In the
reflected light of the prophet he had a more than ordinary influence with the
Indians. As his mind expanded, he began to comprehend their simplicity, and
exactly why Crooked-Bear, who did not violate their prejudices, could lead them
by better paths. The relationship of the two lonely men grew closer, and under
the necessity of the case the hermit took Ermine to a mountain ravine some
little distance from his camp. Here he operated a sluice, in connection with a
placer, in a desultory way, by which he was able to hive up enough gold dust to
fill his wants from the traders. He exacted a promise from the lad that come
what would he must never, by word or action, reveal the existence of this place.
The hermit wanted only enough to cover his wants during his lifetime, and if no
one located the place, Ermine could use it as he saw fit in after years. It
would always supply his needs, and when the white men came, as they surely
would, the boy might develop the property, but all would be lost without
absolute secrecy. Even the Indians did not know of the placer; they always
explained to the traders, when questioned concerning the hermit's gold dust,
that he made it himself; his medicine was strong, etc. This they believed, and
no trader could get farther. Beyond the understanding that gold dust represented
the few things necessary to their simple lives, John Ermine cared no more for it
than did the blue jays or the Arctic hares. The thing did not interest him
beyond a rather intense dislike of the work entailed. The hermit had often told
him the story of himself and his gold. Years ago he had left the States,
following the then gentle tide of adventurers who sought fortunes or found death
in the unknown hills. He wanted forgetfulness, but his fellows craved gold. On
one occasion he formed an alliance with a prospecting miner and an old trapper,
relict of the fur-trading days, to go to a place in the Indian country, where
the latter had in his wanderings discovered a placer. They outfitted in
Lewiston, Idaho, and guided surely by the hunter, had reached the present scene
of the hermit's domicile without accident. Finding their hopes realized, they
built the log cabin against the rock wall. As he told it: "We found the quartz-
float, and the miner followed it with a gold-pan. We were surprised to find we
obtained colors almost from the first. We built the cabin, and put in our spare
time in turning the water from the creek to one side of the gulch, so that we
could get the sluice-boxes in place, and a proper flow for them, and, at the
same time, work the gravel in the bottom of the creek without being
inconvenienced by too great a flow of water. All this time we followed the trail
to and from the cabin along the rock ledge, where no one but a goat would be apt
to find it; and in every way we were careful not to attract wandering Indian
hunters to ourselves. "The miner worked slowly up the creek to where the gold
became richer, until it finally petered out. He was then at a loss to account
for the disappearance of the metal. This set him to thinking that he must have
been working below a ledge where the gold originated. He then began to prospect
for the lode itself, which, after due disappointment and effort, we found. It is
the ledge which I have shown you, Ermine. The thing was buried in _d√©bris_, and
a discoloration of iron stains had confused the miner. He told me that the
quartz would go a hundred dollars to the ton, and would make us all rich some
day. Of course we did nothing with that, being content, for the present, with
the gravel. "We were high up on the range, away from any divides, and felt safe
from wandering Indians. They could discover us only by chance, but by chance
they did. One morning, when we had nearly completed the cabin, and were putting
on the finishing touches, I was cooking at the fire when I heard a number of
gunshots on the outside. I sprang to the half-opened door, and saw my two
friends on the ground; one was dead, and the other was rolling about in agony on
the pine-needles. A half-dozen Indians rushed out of the timber and soon
finished their bloody work. I was so overcome, so unnerved, by the sudden and
awful sight, that I could not move my hands or feet. Strangely enough, the
Indians did not immediately advance on the cabin, fearing hostile shots. Since
then I have found out that they knew by our tracks there were three of us.
Taking positions behind trees, they waited. In the still air I could hear them
talk to each other. I considered my situation hopeless, but very gradually
regained my nerve. Knowing I could not defend the cabin, my mind acted quickly,
as often a man's will when he is in such desperate straits. Often I had heard
the trapper, who had lived among Indians a great deal during his career, tell of
their superstition, their reverence for the unusual, and their tolerance toward
such things. At this time I cannot analyze the thought that came to me, but
being only half dressed, I tore off my clothes, and getting on all fours, which
the unusual length of my arms made possible, I ran out of the cabin, making wild
noises and grotesque gestures. My faculties were so shattered at that time that
I cannot quite recall all that happened. The Indians did not fire at me, nor did
they appear from behind the trees. Growing weary of these antics, and feeling it
was best not to prolong the situation, I worked my way toward them. If before
this I had been frightened, when I came near two or three of these savages, and
could look at them, it was easily seen that they were out of their minds. They
were prepared for a man, but not for me. Straightening up, I walked directly to
one of them and glared into his eyes. If I looked as wild as I felt, I do not
wonder at his amazement. He dropped his gun, and bawled out in his native
tongue, which, of course, at that time I did not understand. I answered in a
soft voice, which chimed in well with his harsh howling. Presently the others
came and gathered round me. I spoke in a declamatory manner for a long time, and
one of them addressed some broken English to me. That man was Half-Moon, whom
you know; there is French blood in him, and he had been with the traders, where
he had picked up barely enough English to make himself understood. "He asked me
if I was a man, and I said, 'No, I was sent here by the Great Spirit.' I pointed
to the sky, and then patted the earth, saying I lived in both places, and that
when I had seen them kill white men I had come out of the ground to tell them
that the Great Spirit was angry, and that they must not do it again. Oh, when I
saw the weather clearing before me, I piled in my trumps; I remembered an actor
named Forrest, whom you do not know, of course, but he had a way with him which
I copied most accurately. "The upshot of it all was that I gained their
confidence, and felt they would not molest me so long as I could retain it. It
was impossible for me to get out of their country, for there was no place in the
world that suited me better. All of my worldly possessions were here, and once
over the shock of the encounter, I did not especially value my life. You know
the rest; no Crow comes near me, or even into this particular locality, except
for reasons of Church and State. They have been good to me, and I mean to return
it in so far as I can by my superior understanding of the difficulties which
beset the tribe. My crooked back served me its only good turn then." The Sioux
and Cheyennes were pressed by the white tide from the south. It came curling in,
roller after roller, despite the treaties with their government and in spite of
the Indians who rode the country, hunting, shooting, burning, and harassing the
invaders. The gold under their feet drew the huge, senseless, irresistible mass
of white humanity upon them. It surged over the white soldiers who came to their
aid; it flooded around the ends and crept between the crevices. Finally the
reprisals of the Indians fused the white soldiers with the gold-hunters: it was
war. Long columns of "pony soldiers" and "walk-a-heaps" and still longer lines
of canvas-topped wagons trailed snakelike over the buffalo range. The redmen
hovered and swooped and burned the dry grass ahead of them, but the fire-
spitting ranks crawled hither and yon, pressing the Sioux into the country of
the Crows, where great camps were formed to resist the soldiers. The poor Crows
fled before them, going into the mountain valleys and inaccessible places to
escape the war-ardor of the now thoroughly enraged enemy. These were lean years
in the Absaroke lodges. Crooked-Bear and John Ermine dared cook their food only
in the midday, fearing their smoke might be more readily seen in the quiet light
of morning and evening. They trembled after every shot at game, not knowing to
whose ears the sound might carry. Crows came sneaking into their camp, keen,
scared, ghostlike creatures who brought news of the conflict. Bands of Crows had
gone with the white men to ride the country in front of them. The white men
could not make their own ponies run; they were as dull as buffalo; they
travelled in herds, but when they moved forward, no Indians could stop them. One
day, through the shimmering heat, came Wolf-Voice, one of the messengers, with
the tale how the Sioux had made a "surround" of pony soldiers on the Ease-ka-
poy-tot-chee-archa-cheer[7] and covered a hill with their bodies. But said this
one: "Still the soldiers come crawling into the country from all sides. The
Sioux and the buffalo run between them. I am going down the Yellowstone to help
the white men. The soldiers make a scout rich." [7] Little Big Horn. Crooked-
Bear spoke: "John Ermine, now it is time for you to play a man's part; you must
go with Wolf-Voice to the soldiers. I would go myself but for my crooked back
and the fact that I care nothing for either belligerents; their contentions mean
nothing to me. My life is behind me, but yours is in front of you. Begin; go
down the valley of the Yellowstone with Wolf-Voice; if the Sioux do not cut you
off, you will find the soldiers. Enlist as a scout. I am sure they will take
you." [Illustration: WOLF-VOICE.] The young man had felt that this hour would
arrive, and now that it had come he experienced a particular elation. Early
evening found him at the door of the cabin, mounted on one horse and leading his
war-pony beside him. The good-by word was all; no demonstration on the part of
either man to indicate feelings, although they both were conscious of the
seriousness of the parting. The horses disappeared among the trees, and the
hermit sat down before his hut, intent at the blank space left by the riders.
The revolt of his strong, sensitive nature against his fellows had been so
complete that he had almost found happiness in the lonely mountains. While
always conscious of an overwhelming loss, he held it at bay by a misanthropic
philosophy. This hour brought an acute emptiness to his heart, and the falling
shadows of the night brooded with him. Had he completed his work, had he
fulfilled his life, was he only to sit here with his pale, dead thoughts, while
each day saw the fresh bones of free and splendid animals bleach on the
hillsides that he might continue? He was not unusually morbid for a man of his
tastes, but his thoughts on this evening were sour. "Bah! the boy may come back;
he has the habits of an Indian; he knows how to glide through the country like a
coyote. The Sioux will not catch him, and I must wait and hope to see my good
work consummated. Nature served that boy almost as scurvy a trick as she did me,
but I thwarted her, d---- her!" CHAPTER VIII

PLAYING A MAN'S PART

The two men rode silently, one behind the other, trailing their led ponies; the
hoofs of their horses going out in sound on the pine-needles, anon cracking a
dead branch as they stepped over fallen timber, or grunting under the strain of
steep hillsides. Far across the wide valley the Shoshone range suddenly lost its
forms and melted into blue-black against the little light left by the sun, which
sank as a stone does in water. In swift pursuit of her warrior husband, came She
of the night, soft and golden, painting everything with her quiet, restful
colors, and softly soothing the fevers of day with her cooling lotions.
[Illustration]

Wolf-Voice and John Ermine emerged from the woods, dog-trotting along on their
ponies after the fashion of Indian kind. Well they knew the deceptions of the
pale light; while it illumined the way a few steps ahead, it melted into a
protecting gloom within an arrow's-flight. An unfortunate meeting with the enemy
would develop a horse-race where numbers counted for no more than the swiftest
horse and the rider who quirted most freely over the coul√©e or dog-town. The
winner of such races was generally the one who had the greatest interest at
stake in the outcome,--the hunted, not the hunter. As the two riders expected,
they traversed the plains without incident, forded the rivers, and two hours
before sunrise were safely perched on the opposite range, high enough to look
down on the eagles. These vast stretches of landscape rarely showed signs of
human life. One unaccustomed to them would as soon expect to find man or horses
walking the ocean's bed; their loneliness was akin to the antarctic seas. That
was how it seemed, not how it was. The fierce savages who skulked through the
cuts and seams made by erosion did not show themselves, but they were there and
might appear at any moment; the desert brotherhood knew this, and well
considered their footsteps. Seated on a rock pinnacle, amid brushwood, one man
slept while the other watched. Long before nightfall they were again in motion.
Around the camp, Indians are indolent, but on the war-path their exertions are
ceaseless to the point of exhaustion. It was not possible to thread their way
through the volcanic gashes of the mountains by night, but while light lasted
they skirted along their slopes day after day, killing game with arrows which
Wolf-Voice carried because of their silence and economy. These two figures,
crawling, sliding, turning, and twisting through the sunlight on the rugged
mountains, were grotesque but harmonious. America will never produce their like
again. Her wheels will turn and her chimneys smoke, and the things she makes
will be carried round the world in ships, but she never can make two figures
which will bear even a remote resemblance to Wolf-Voice and John Ermine. The
wheels and chimneys and the white men have crowded them off the earth. Buckskin
and feathers may swirl in the tan-bark rings to the tune of Money Musk, but the
meat-eaters who stole through the vast silences, hourly snatching their
challenging war-locks from the hands of death, had a sensation about them which
was independent of accessories. Their gaunt, hammer-headed, grass-bellied, cat-
hammed, roach-backed ponies went with them when they took their departure; the
ravens fly high above their intruding successors, and the wolves which sneaked
at their friendly heels only lift their suspicious eyes above a rock on a far-
off hill to follow the white man's movements. Neither of the two mentioned
people realized that the purpose of the present errand was to aid in bringing
about the change which meant their passing. Wolf-Voice had no family tree. It
was enough that he arrived among the traders speaking Gros Ventre; but a man on
a galloping horse could see that his father was no Gros Ventre; he blew into the
Crow camp on some friendly wind, prepared to make his thoughts known in his
mother tongue or to embellish it with Breed-French or Chinook; he had sought the
camp of the white soldiers and added to his Absaroke sundry "God-damns" and
other useful expressions needed in his business. He was a slim fellow with a
massive head and a restless soul; a seeker after violence, with wicked little
black eyes which glittered through two narrow slits and danced like drops of
mercury. His dress was buckskin, cut in the red fashion; his black hat had
succumbed to time and moisture, while a huge skinning-knife strapped across his
stomach, together with a brass-mounted Henry rifle, indicated the danger zone
one would pass before reaching his hair. At a distance John Ermine was not so
different; but, closer, his yellow braids, strongly vermilioned skin, and open
blue eyes stared hard and fast at your own, as emotionless as if furnished by a
taxidermist. His coat was open at the front as the white men made them; he wore
blanket breeches encased at the bottom in hard elkskin leggings bound at the
knee. He also carried a fire-bag, the Spencer repeating carbine given him by his
comrade, together with an elk-horn whip. In times past Ermine had owned a hat,
but long having outlived the natural life of any hat, it had finally refused to
abide with him. In lieu of this he had bound his head with a yellow
handkerchief, beside which polished brass would have been a dead and lonely
brown. His fine boyish figure swayed like a tule in the wind, to the motions of
his pony. His mind was reposeful though he was going to war--going to see the
white men of whom he had heard so much from his tutor; going to associate with
the people who lost "ten thousand men" in a single battle and who did not regard
it as wonderful. He had seen a few of these after the Long-Horse fight, but he
was younger and did not understand. He understood now, however, and intended to
drink his eyes and feast his mind to satiety on the people of whom he was one.
As the sun westered, the two adventurers blinded their trail in the manner most
convenient at the time; a thing not so difficult to do in the well-watered
northwest as in the dry deserts of the south; besides which the buffalo-hunting,
horse-using Indians were not the equals of the mountain foot brethren in
following trails. After doing this they doubled and twisted back on their track.
While the sun was yet bright they broiled their evening meat on a tiny fire of
dry sticks. Blowing the tobacco smoke to the four corners of the earth, Wolf-
Voice said: "We will be rich, brother, if the Sioux do not get a chance to dry
our hair; the soldiers always make their scouts rich; there is plenty to eat in
their wagons, and cartridges cost nothing. The soldiers always fight; they are
like the gray bears,--they do not know any better,--and then is the time when we
must watch close to get away before the Sioux have an advantage of them. They
are fools and cannot run. They are tied to the ground. If you get a chance to
carry the talking papers from one white chief to another, they pour the money
into your blanket. I have never had a paper to carry, but I think they will give
you one. If they do, brother, we will take the silver and get one of the white
soldiers to buy us a bottle of whiskey from the sutler." And Wolf-Voice's
malignant features relaxed into a peaceful state which made Ermine laugh
outright. A bottle of whiskey and ten thousand dead men--quite a difference,
thought Ermine. "That is it--that is it," continued the musing white man to
himself; "he goes to war for a bottle of whiskey, and I go for ten thousand
men." His unframed thoughts wrestled and twisted, lined and rounded, the idea of
ten thousand men; yet the idea never took a form which satisfied him. Ten
thousand buffalo--yes, he had calculated their mass; he had seen them. Ten
thousand trees--that, too, he could arrange; he had blocked them out on the
mountain-side. But there were many times ten thousand men who had not been
killed; that he gave up altogether. Nothing had saved him but blind faith in his
old comrade. Leaving the mountains again, they stalked over the moon-lit land
more like ghosts than men, and by day they lay so low that the crawling ants
were their companions. By the Elk[8] River Wolf-Voice pointed to a long, light
streak which passed through the sage-brush: "Brother, that is the sign of the
white men. The buffalo, when they pass once, do not make a deeper path than
that, and, brother, what is that in the road which shows so bright?" [8] Indian
for Yellowstone. Appropriating the gleaming thing, the Indian reached from his
pony and picked it up, holding it close to his eyes for a moment before passing
it to his companion. "What is that, brother?" Ermine examined it closely,
turning it in the moonlight. "I do not know; it is a paper; I will keep it until
daylight." A few steps ahead was found another glistening article, dropped by
the passing soldiers. They knew what that was; it was the canteen, lost on the
march, by a pony soldier. Wolf-Voice appropriated it. "We must not stay here;
the trail is old, but the Sioux will be near the soldiers. They are between us
and the white men; you may be sure of that, brother," said one; and the four
ponies stumbled off through the sage-brush, melting into the night. They stopped
for the day at the head of a rocky coul√©e, eating dried meat for fear of making
a smoke. Ermine drew the paper from his pocket, laid it on the ground before
him, and regarded it for a few moments; then he turned it round, seeing it was
upside down by the writing on the bottom. "Bogardus," he read on the left-hand
corner. The image on the card spread, opened, and flowered in Ermine's mind; it
was a picture--that was plain now; it was a photograph such as he had heard
Crooked-Bear tell about--an image from the sun. He had never seen one before.
Wolf-Voice bent his beady eyes on the black and white thing, but it suggested
nothing to him. Nature had not been black and white to his scarlet vision. The
rude conventionalized lines painted on the buffalo-robes differentiated buffalo,
ponies, and men, but this thing--"Humph!" --he lighted his pipe. Before the
persistent gaze of Ermine the face of a young woman unravelled itself from a
wonderful headgear and an unknown frock. The eyes looked into his with a long,
steady, and hypnotic gaze. The gentle face of the image fascinated the lad; it
stirred his imagination and added "a beautiful white woman" to his "ten-
thousand-dead-men" quest. Wolf-Voice had to call him twice to take his watch,
saying as he lay down, "Put the paper away, brother; it takes your eyes from the
Sioux." The travellers could not make long journeys in the short summer nights
through the open country, and exercise a proper vigilance at the same time. The
moon rose later every night, thus cutting their time. Neither did they see any
signs of human beings or know where to find the white men; but recourse to the
trail along the river, from time to time, assured them that the wagons had
continued down the stream. The trail was very old, and was full of Indian pony-
tracks which had followed it. One day as they lay in a washout, Wolf-Voice
pointed to columns of dust far to the south. Was it buffalo, Indians, or
soldiers? The dust stayed all day in one place; it might be a buffalo-surround
or big herds about camps, but this they were not able to determine. "We will go
to the dust this sleep and we will ride the war-horses; the others which we have
been riding are stiff and sore; we will leave them here and come after them if
we can," spoke Ermine as he braided the tail of his favorite pony. When Wolf-
Voice's attention was directed elsewhere, he took his medicine, the dried hoof
of the white stallion, and rubbed it gently on his pony's heels. The prophet
would not approve of this, he felt, but it could do no harm, since he also
prayed God to make his pony run fast and not stumble, to blind the Sioux, stop
their ears, and otherwise to cherish appropriately the poor life of John Ermine
who believed in Him and now wanted His help. Slowly they made their way south
through the gloom, trusting their range-bred ponies to pick out the footing.
Hour after hour they stepped along, stopping at intervals to listen. Late at
night as they made their way down a long ridge, they heard a horse whinny
somewhere far down in one of the breaks of the land. Without a word they turned
away from the noise. Later Wolf-Voice whispered: "Indians; the white men never
let their horses loose in the night. That pony was alone, or we should have
heard more sounds. He was calling his brothers. Now we must blind our trail;
their scouts will find it in the morning." Accordingly they allowed their horses
to feed slowly along, not attempting to guide them, and after a mile felt that
any one who should follow those tracks would think that they were loose horses
grazing. By the light of the late moon they made their way more quickly, but
always stopping to separate the sounds of the night--the good sounds from the
bad. They could see that they were coming to the river, and as they rose on a
wave of the land, they saw a few faint sparks glitter far down the valley. "It
is the white soldiers--the big fires of the white men, brother. We will go in
when the sun comes up. If we should go near them now, they would fire at us. The
white men shoot at anything which moves in the dark; a wolf is not safe near
their camps when the sun has gone." Before the gray of morning they were safely
ensconced under a bluff, waiting for the daylight and within a mile of the long
line of Sibley tents. They heard the hungry mule chorus, the clank of chains,
the monotonous calls of the sentries; and the camp slowly developed before their
eyes like a photographic negative in a bath of chemicals; then John Ermine began
to understand ten thousand men. Softly the metallic r√©veille drifted to their
ears; it spread from one group of tents to another until the whole air danced
with the delightful sound. The watchers on the sage-brush hillside were
preoccupied with the movements of the soldiers. They listened to the trumpets
and saw the men answer them by forming long lines. In a moment the lines broke
into hurrying individuals, the fires began to send up the quiet morning smoke,
while the mule chorus ceased. As though shot out of the ground by some hidden
force, Wolf-Voice bounded up. "G---- d----! Mit-wit! [9] Coo-ley! "[10] he
yelled, and as responsive as a swallow which follows the swift flight of another
in play, Ermine bounded on to his horse. One look behind told the story. The
Sioux were coming. He saw the lightning play of the ponies' legs, heard the
whips crack on their quarters, and was away like a flash, bearing hard on the
soldier camp. Before many bounds he recovered from his surprise; it was not far,
and his horse was answering the medicine. He had never run like this before. The
Sioux had found and followed their trail and had nearly caught them napping.
After their long journey they had almost been cut off during the last mile of
it. Seeing that their prey had escaped, the Sioux swerved like hawks, pulling up
on the hill. [9] Get up! [10] Run! Turning, Wolf-Voice and Ermine shouted back
taunts at them, fired their guns at the group, and then leisurely loped toward
the camps. While yet quite a way out, three white soldiers rose suddenly from a
dry wash with their rifles: "Halt! Who goes there?" [Illustration: "'HALT! WHO
GOES THERE?'"] The riders drew down to a walk, Wolf-Voice raising his hand in
the peace sign, and saying, "We are your frens, we aire two Crow Enjun; don'
shoot!" and continued to advance. The soldiers stood with their guns in
readiness, while one answered: "Get off them ponies; lay your guns on the
ground. I guess you are all right." And then, looking at Ermine with a laugh:
"Is that blonde there a Crow? Guess them Sioux scared him white. I've often
heard tell of a man's hair turning white in a single night." "Ach sure, Bill,
and it don't tourn a mon's face red to be schared sthiff," observed another
picket. The faintest suggestion of a smile stole over John Ermine as he
comprehended. "No, soldiers, we are not afraid. Why can't you let two men go
into the big camp; are all those soldiers afraid of two men?" And the pickets
laughed at the quaint conjecture. Shortly an officer rode up on a horse and
questioned Ermine. "Who are you?" "We are friends of the white people. Did you
see that we are not friends of the Sioux?" "Yes; I saw those Indians chase you.
Were they Sioux?" "We took that for granted." And again the corner of John
Ermine's mouth relaxed. "Yes, of course, I admire your judgment; come with me,"
replied the officer, as he turned to ride back. The three ambled along together.
"Who are you?" "I am a white man, and my comrade is an Indian." "What is your
name?" "My name is John Ermine, and I want to be a scout. Will you take me?"
"That is not my business; but I have no doubt the proper authority will be glad
to put you on the pay-roll. You don't seem any more popular with the Sioux than
we are." CHAPTER IX

[Illustration]

IN CAMP

The three horsemen jogged into camp, and it can hardly be stated who was the
more impressed by the sight--John Ermine as he passed through the crowds of
soldiers, or the soldiers as they looked at the bare-backed rider with the
yellow braids and the glaring handkerchief. They had left their impedimenta with
the worn-out ponies back in the hills with little hope of recovering them. The
gathering men who had seen the chase gave tokens of their approval by yelling
_Ki-yis_ in imitation of the Indians. "Say, Yellow, you're no brevet"--"You
wa'n't crazy to wait for them Sioux"--"The general will feed you on mince-
pie"--"You'll be a sergeant in the rag-bag troop," and other expressions
numerous and 'uncooked' fell on their ears. Ermine felt embarrassed with the
attention of so many people centred on him, but his face was cut to stand such
shocks. His swift glances about the thronging camp began to illumine the "ten-
thousand-men" proposition; he saw lines of tents, wagons without end, but no
women; he would have to postpone that feast. The officer leading stopped in
front of a tent around which many officers and men were standing or coming and
going. He spoke to one who wore a big hat and a split blond beard, a man less
pretentious in his garb than any about him, but whose eye arrested Ermine by the
commanding keenness. Dismounting, the officer, saluting, said: "General Crook,
these two men were just chased into camp by Indians. They say they are Crows, or
at least from the Crows, and they want to be made scouts." "What Indians chased
you?" asked the general. "We do not know; we were waiting on the hill to come in
here by daylight; they surprised us, and we did not stop to talk with them,"
replied John Ermine. "Where did you come from, my boy?" he continued. "I came
from the Stinking Water country to help you fight the Sioux--myself and Wolf-
Voice there," replied Ermine. Turning to that waif, the general said, "Who are
you?" Patting his chest impressively, Wolf-Voice spoke: "Me? My mother she was
Gro Ventre; I am a warrior; I spak de English; I was scout with Yellow Hair.
[11] I am brav mans." [11] General Custer. "Umph--no doubt," softly hazarded the
Gray Fox. "You were not with him when he died? I suppose you attended to that
matter with proper thoroughness. Have you seen any Sioux signs?" "Yaas--day
follar de wagon, dey aire leave dar pony-track all roun you." Once fastening his
quizzical eyes on the white lad, the general asked, "Do you talk Crow?" "Yes."
"Can you make the hand talk?" Ermine gave the sign for "Yes." "Have you ever
been to school?" "No, sir." "Who taught you to speak English?" "My old comrade,
Crooked-Bear," said Ermine. "Crooked-Bear--Crooked-Bear," mused the general.
"Oh, I give it up," as he turned away. "You are not one of the Pike County
breed, it seems--Crooked-Bear--Crooked-Bear. Take them to the scout camp,
Ferguson." And the general retired to his tent, somewhat perplexed by the young
man's make-up. The trio went on toward the scout camp, and as they passed a man
on foot he inquired of Ferguson, "Where did you get that pair of aces?" "The
Sioux dealt them to me this morning; will they fill your hand?" "Yes, sir--think
they will." Then to John Ermine, "Do you savvy this country, pardner?" "Yes,
sir; I have always lived in this country," spoke he, with a wave of his arm
around the horizon which had the true Indian swing to it, an accomplishment only
acquired by white men after long years of association with the tribes. All the
signs and gestures made by Indians are distinctive with them and are very
suggestive from their constant use of the sign language. The old chief of scouts
recognized the significance of the motion on the instant, and knew that one who
could make it very probably possessed the other qualifications for his corps.
"What is your name?" "John Ermine, sir," came the answer. The "sir" had been an
acquisition of the last few interviews. He had heard it from the mouth of
Crooked-Bear on infrequent occasions, but his quick perceptions told him that it
was useful in these canvas towns. "All right. Will you turn these men over to me
for duty, Lieutenant Ferguson?" spoke the chief of scouts, who was a short
infantry officer with a huge yellow mustache. "I will," replied Ferguson, as he
turned his horse. "Go with Captain Lewis there; and good luck to you, Mr.
Ermine." After answering certain questions by the chief of scouts, which were
intended to prove their fitness for the job, the two late fugitives had the
pleasure of knowing that Uncle Sam would open his wagons to them in return for
their hair and blood when his representative should order the sacrifice. Wolf-
Voice never allowed his mind to dwell on market values, and John Ermine felt
that he could do what "ten thousand men" were willing to do in an emergency.
[Illustration: CAPTAIN LEWIS.] Having done with these formalities, under the
trained guidance of Wolf-Voice the two men speedily found their way to the
scouts' mess, where they took a hearty toll of the government. About the cook
fire squatted or sprawled the allies of the white troops. There were Crows and
Indians from other tribes--together with half-breeds whose heraldic emblazonment
ought to be a pretty squaw. A few white men came about from time to time, but
they did not abide with the regular crew. New faces appeared as they came in
from the hills to "cool coffee." John Ermine walked aimlessly around camp, all
eyes and ears. No backwoods boy at a country fair ever had his faculties so
over-fed and clogged as he. In turn the soldiers attempted to engage him in
conversation as he passed about among them, but the hills had put a seal of
silence on his lips; he had not yet found himself amid the bustle. Remarks which
grated harshly came to his ears; the unkindness of them undermined the
admiration for the white soldiers which the gentle treatment of the officers had
instilled. "Ain't that yellow handkerchief great?" --"Sure he'd do well with a
hand-organ on the Bowery." --"Is he a square shake or a make-up?" --and other
loose usage of idle minds. "Say, Bill, come look at the sorrel Injun," sang one
trooper to another who stood leaning on a wagon-wheel whittling a stick, to
which that one replied: "You take my advice and let the sorrel Injun alone; that
butcher knife on his belly is no ornament." By noon Ermine's mind had been so
sloshed and hail-stoned with new ideas that his head was tired. They were coming
so fast that he could not stow them, so he found his way back to the scout camp
and lay down on a stray robe. The whole thing had not impressed him quite as he
had anticipated; it had a raw quality, and he found he did not sift down into
the white mass; he had a longing for the quiet of Crooked-Bear's cabin--in
short, John Ermine was homesick. However, after a few hours' sleep, he became
hungry, which shifted his preoccupation to a less morbid channel. The scouts
talked excitedly of the enemy with whom they had skirmished out on the hills;
they discussed the location of the Sioux camp, and speculated on the intention
of the Gray Fox. Sunlight or firelight never in the ages played on a wilder
group than this; not on the tribes of Asiatics who swarmed in front of
Alexander; not in the deserts of Northern Africa: nor on the steppes of Asia, at
any period, did sun or fire cut and color cruder men than these who were taking
the long, long step between what we know men are and what we think they were. A
soldier stepped briskly into the group, and touching Ermine on the shoulder,
said, "The Captain wants to see you; come on." He followed to the tent
designated, and was told to come in and sit down. The officer sat opposite, on a
camp stool, and after regarding him kindly for a moment, said: "Your name is
John Ermine and you are a white man. Where were you born?" "I do not know,
Captain, where I was born, but I have lived all my life with the Crows." "Yes;
but they did not teach you to speak English." "No; I have lived some years with
my old comrade up in the mountains, and he taught me to speak English and to
write it." "Who was your old comrade, as you call him? He must have been an
educated man," queried the Captain, looking insistently into Ermine's eyes.
"Captain, I cannot tell, any more than to say that he is an educated white man,
who said he is dead, that his fires have burnt out, and he asked me not to speak
about him; but you will understand." Captain Lewis did not understand, nor did
he avert his perplexed gaze from Ermine. He was wondering about the boy's mind;
had it become deranged? Clearly he saw that Ermine had been a captive; but this
mystery of mind cultivation by one who was dead--had he struck a new scheme in
psychical research? The Captain rolled a cigarette and scratched a match on the
leg of his breeches. "My old companion told me I ought to come here and help
fight the Sioux." "Have you ever been to war?" "Yes; I took a scalp from a Sioux
warrior when I was a boy, and I wear the eagle feather upright," spoke Ermine in
his usual low and measured voice. "Ho, ho! that is good. I see that you carry a
Spencer carbine. I have not seen one lately; we do not use them now." "It is the
best I have, Captain." The Captain took his cigarette from his mouth and bawled:
"Jones! _Oh_ Jones, Jones!" Almost instantly a soldier stepped into the tent,
touching his forehead in salute. "Go down and draw a carbine, fifty rounds, a
saddle, blanket, and bridle." Jones disappeared. "Oh, Jones, Jones, and a shirt
and hat." Then turning to Ermine, "Do you ever wear shoes?" "Only this kind I
have on, sir." "Do you want some shoes?" "No; I think I am better off with
these. I have tried on the heavy leather shoes, but they feel as though my feet
were caught in a trap." "Ha, ha! a trap, hey--a good deal so; well, any time you
want anything come to me. And now, my boy, may I give you a little advice?" "You
may, sir; I shall be glad of it. I know I have much to learn," assented John
Ermine. "Well, then, you are an odd-looking person even in this camp, and that
is saying much, I can assure you. I will have a hat here in a moment which will
displace that high-art headgear of yours, and may I ask if you will not take
your hair out of those braids? It will be more becoming to you, will not be
quite so Injuny, and I think it will not interfere with your usefulness." "Yes,
sir, I will," quietly said the young man, who forthwith undid the plats with a
celerity which comes to the owners of long hair. Having finished, he gave his
head a toss; the golden tresses, released from their bindings, draped his face,
falling down in heavy masses over his shoulders, and the Captain said slowly,
"Well, I will be good God-d----d!" After having soothed his surprise by a
repetition of this observation several times, the Captain added, "Say, you are a
village beauty, Ermine, by Gad--I'd like a photograph of you." And that worthy
continued to feast his eyes on the bewildering sight. It seemed almost as though
he had created it. The orderly entered at this point, loaded down with
quartermaster and ordnance stuff. His hat had found its way on to the back of
his head during these exertions, and he came up all standing, but the discipline
told. All he did as he gazed helplessly at Ermine was to whistle like a bull
elk. Quickly recovering himself, "I have the stuff, sir,--but--but I'm afraid,
sir, the hat won't fit." "All right, all right, Jones; it will do." And Jones
took himself out into the darkness. To a passing comrade he 'unloaded': "Say,
Steve, you savvy that blond Injun what was run in here this morning? Well, he's
in the Captain's tent, and the Captain has got him to take his hair down, undo
them braids, you see; and say, Steve, I am a son-of-a-gun if it ain't like a
bushel of hay; say, it's a honey-cooler. You will fall dead when you see it."
Meanwhile Ermine was put in possession of the much-coveted saddle and a new gun,
one with a blue barrel without a rust-spot on it anywhere, inside or out. His
feelings were only held in leash by a violent repression. The officer enjoyed
the proceedings hugely as the young man slipped into the new shirt and tied the
yellow handkerchief round his neck. The campaign hat was a failure, as Jones had
feared. It floated idly on the fluffy golden tide, and was clearly going to
spoil the Captain's art work; it was nothing short of comical. Frantically the
officer snatched his own hat from his camp-chest, one of the broad rolling
sombreros common on the plains in those days, but now seen no more; this he
clapped on Ermine's head, gave it a downward tug together with a pronounced list
to the nigh side. Then, standing back from his work, he ran his eyes critically
for a moment: "Good! now you'll do!" Ermine's serious face found itself able to
relax; the ripples broadened over it, his eyes closed, and his mouth opened ever
so little, only escaping looking foolish by the fact that he had a reserve; he
did not close or broaden too much. "Well, my boy," said the officer, as he began
to put up his papers on the chest, "go down to camp now; the outfit moves to-
morrow; you'll do in a free-for-all, by Gad." [Illustration: Music]

When this greeted the easy ears of our hero, he found the loud bustle, so
characteristic of the white soldier, more noisy than ever. Slowly the dancing
refrain passed from regiment to regiment. The thing itself is dear to the tired
soldier who dreads its meaning. It is always a merry beginning, it accords with
the freshness of the morning; when associated with youth it never fails to cheer
the weary dragging years of him who looks behind. The tents fluttered down; men
ran about their work, munching crackers and hot bacon; they bundled and boxed
and heaved things into the escort wagons. Teamsters bawled loudly--it is a
concomitant with mule association; yet they were placid about their work of
hooking up; their yells never interfered with their preoccupied professionalism.
The soft prairie winds sighing through the dreaming teamster's horse-blankets
fills his subconscious self with cracks, whistles, howls. "You blaze!" --"Oh,
Brown!" --"D---- you, Brigham!" --, ----, ----, and other phrases which cannot
be printed. That mules and teamsters have never received a proper public
appreciation of their importance in war is one of the disheartening injustices
of the world. Orderlies and mounted officers tore about; picturesque men who had
been saved from the scrap-heap of departing races ranged aimlessly or smoked
placidly; they had no packing to do, their baggage was carried in their belts.
One of these was John Ermine, who stood by his pony, watching Captain Lewis;
this busy man with his multitudinous duties had been picked out for a guiding
star. Having presently completed all the details, the Captain mounted and rode
away, followed by his motley company. The camp being cleared, the officer
turned, and with a wave of his hand which covered the horizon in its sweep,
yelled, "Go on now; get to the hell out of here!" In quick response the wolfish
throng broke apart, loping away over the yellow landscape flaming out toward all
points; the trained skirmishers trusted their instincts and their horses' heels.
John Ermine rode slowly over a hill, and looking backward, saw the long,
snakelike columns of horse and foot and wagons come crawling. It was the most
impressive sight he had ever beheld, but he could not arrange any plan in his
own mind whereby the command was going to fight the Sioux. All the Indians in
his world could not and would not try to stem that advance: as well try to stop
the falling of the snow or the swarms of grasshoppers. Again, there was no
necessity, since the command could no more catch the Sioux than it could reach
the sailing hawks or flapping ravens. Keeping his sharp eyes circling, Ermine
mused along. Yes, he remembered what Crooked-Bear had said: "The white men never
go back; they do not have to hunt buffalo in order to live; they are paid by the
year, and one, two, even a lifetime of years make no difference to them. They
would build log towns and scare away the buffalo. The Indians could not make a
cartridge or gun," and other things which he had heard came into his mind. It
was the awful stolidity of never ending time which appalled Ermine as he
calculated his strategy--no single desperate endeavor would avail; to kill all
those men behind him would do the Sioux no good whatever. In single battles the
white men were accustomed to leave more men than that, dead, on the field.
Still, think as he would, the matter was not clear to him. A mile away on his
right he saw a friendly scout rise over a bluff; the horse and man made a dot on
the dry yellow grass; that was the difference between the solid masses of dust-
blown white men behind him and the Indian people; that sight gave him a
proportion. If all these white men were dead, it would make no difference; if
that Indian on the far-off hill was dead, he could never be replaced. John
Ermine felt one thing above all this abstraction: it was a deep-seated respect
for the Sioux personally. Except when a fellow-scout occasionally showed himself
on a distant rise, or he looked behind at the dust-pall over the soldiers, there
was nothing to be seen of the Sioux; that was another difference, and one which
was in no wise reassuring to Ermine. The dry, deserted landscape was, however,
an old comrade, and acted as a sedative after the flutter of the camps. The camp
held dozy, full-bellied security, but these silences made his ears nervous for a
rattle of shots and a pat-a, pat-a, pat-a, of rushing ponies. That is how the
desert speaks. CHAPTER X

A BRUSH WITH THE SIOUX

The days saw the big serpents of men crawl on and on--hither and yon over the
rolling land, saw them splash through the rivers, wind round the hills, and lie
comfortably down at night. About them fluttered the Indian scouts like flies
around a lamp,--hostiles and allies,--marking down each other's sign, dashing in
and out, exchanging shots, but always keeping away from the coils of the
serpents. [Illustration]

Many men besides Captain Lewis held out their hands to Ermine, attracted as they
were, first by his picturesque appearance, fine pony, and seat, and Lewis's
enthusiasm; but later by his low-voiced simplicity and acute knowledge
concerning the matters about them. They in turn unravelled many tangled skeins
for Ermine; regiments began to unwind into companies, details, squads; the
wagons assorted themselves, and it was not long before the young scout could
tell a colonel from a cook's police at a glance. Numbers of these men had seen
the ten thousand men die, had been with them when they died, had even, some of
them, lain down with them sapped by their own wounds, though of course they had
not died. One big man slapped Ermine on the back hard enough to make him cough,
and said, "I'd rather take my chance at Cold Harbor than go poking round the
hills alone as you do, my boy." And Ermine had to move away quickly to avoid
another exclamation point, but such little appreciation warmed him. Also the
solidarity of these fellowships took the more definite form of a Colt's
revolver, a copy of Upton's tactics, a pocket Bible, a comb from a bald-headed
man who respected the unities, together with trifles enough to litter up his
saddle-bags. Old Major Ben Searles in particular used to centre his benevolent
eyes on Ermine. He had a boy back in the States, and if he had gone to some
other school than West Point might have been a superintendent of an orphan
asylum as easily as the soldier which he was. Ermine's quaint questions gave him
delicious little mental jolts. "Why is it, Uncle Ben," asked Ermine, "that all
these men come out here to march, get killed, freeze, and starve? They don't
have any wives, and I can't see what they have to protect except their
eatables." "You see, Kid, they enlist to do what the government wants them to
do, and the government wants them to make the Sioux stop killing white folks
just now." "Yes, but they won't do it. Why don't the government mount them on
buffalo ponies, make them eat dried meat, and run after the Sioux instead of
taking the villages to war?" "Well, Ermine, I don't know why. I suppose that is
what the Indians would like them to do, and I reckon that is the reason the
soldiers don't do it. Soldiers calculate not to do what the enemy wants them to
do. Don't you get discouraged; wait a year or two or three, my boy. Oh, we'll
get there; we don't know how, but we always stand pat!" "Pat? pat? What do you
mean by 'standing pat'? Never heard that word. What does it mean?" questioned
the young man. [Illustration: MAJOR BEN SEARLES.] Old Searles laughed. "'Pat' is
a word we use in a game of cards, and it means that when you think you are
licked you guess you are not. It's a great word, Ermine." The huge column having
crawled over the country as far as it was ordered, broke into divisions, some
going down the river in steamboats and other parts through the hills to their
far-off posts and cantonments. The Sioux scouts regarded this as a convenient
solution of the awkward situation. Neither they nor the white men could do
anything with that unwieldy gathering. Two infantry regiments stayed behind as a
reminder to the Sioux that the game was not played out. To one of these Captain
Lewis was attached, which good fortune gave Ermine continued employment. The
soldiers began to build winter cantonments at the mouth of the Buffalo Tongue
River, or, as the white men called it, "The Tongue," and to gather great
quantities of stores which were hauled from Fort Benton. Here was something that
the Sioux could attack; they jumped the trains savagely, burned the grass, cut
in on the animals to stampede, and peppered up the men as they slept. Stores the
troops must have; and though they met repulse at times, they "pounded" the
trains through to the Tongue. It was the custom for wagon trains to go into camp
early in the afternoon, which gave the stock a chance to graze while it was yet
daylight; it also made it possible to guard them from sudden forays by Indians.
On one of these occasions Ermine was with a train which made one of the halts as
usual. The Indians had not interfered, and to kill time a few officers, among
whom was Searles, started a game of poker. Ermine looked on over their
shoulders, trying to comprehend. He had often played the Indian game of "hand,"
so that poker was merely a new slide between wealth and poverty. Seeing him,
Captain Lewis sent him on some trivial errand. While he was gone, an agreement
was made to have him come in, and then they were to "Skin him alive" just to see
how he would stand it. It worked out beautifully. First they separated what
little money he had from his clothes, the officers meanwhile sitting like owls
and keeping their faces sober by dint of lip-biting; then the sombrero, which
was stacked up as five dollars, found its way to Captain Lewis's head in place
of a very bad campaign hat. Next came off the buckskin coat, which was followed
by the revolver, and slowly, so that his suspicions might not be aroused, all
his personal property, including the saddle and gun, which properly did not
belong to him, was laid on the grass beside the victors. "This is going to be a
cold winter, John," laughed one, "or else we'd let you in on that shirt." "Want
to put that pony up for a hundred, Ermine?" asked another. "No; I'll keep the
pony; he's medicine. I've often lost all I had with the plum stones. I guess I
don't understand poker." And the young scout arose smiling. The officers laughed
themselves into tears, jumped up, and brought comrades to see how they had
trimmed John Ermine. Every one greatly enjoyed what they called Ermine's
preparations for the winter. He had his government shirt, his blanket breeches,
and moccasins left; he had not been so poor since he was a herd-boy, but he had
known forms of poverty all his life, so it was not new. What he did not enjoy
was his belittlement. The hard-working men in those dangerous, monotonous days
were keen for any weakness; and when he heard their laughter he wanted a horse-
bucket full of human blood to drown his thoughts. He was greatly disturbed, not
so much on account of his losses, although they were everything, as he viewed
them, as the ridicule in store for him at Tongue River. There is no greater
stimulant to a hardy mind than poverty, and John Ermine's worked like a
government-six in a mud-hole, far into the night. The trio of gamblers, who wore
their spoils on their own persons, to the huge edification of the camp, arranged
to prolong the torture until they should see the young hatless, coatless,
unarmed scout on his bare-backed pony during the next march. At the following
camp they were to play again, lose to him, and end the joke. Confidences were
exchanged, and every one was as tickled as a cur with a new collar. One of the
officers of the poker engagement rode a well-bred American horse of which he was
very proud. He had raced it successfully and never declined an opportunity, of
which fact Ermine was aware. It had slowly come to his mind that he had been
foully dealt with, so about midnight he jumped up--he had a plan. By dint of
daring, fortunate machination, and the co√∂peration of a quartermaster sergeant
whom he took into his confidence, he watered the American horse, fed him with a
heavy feed of very salt corn, and later watered him again. The horse had been on
short rations and was a glutton. It was with the greatest difficulty that the
noble animal managed his breakfast at all; but he was always willing at each
opportunity to weaken the saline solution in his stomach. When the train pulled
out, there was Ermine, bare-backed and ridiculous. He rode through the volley of
jeers and approached the horse-racing officer, saying, "If you are a good
gambler, come on; I will run my horse against yours, three arrow-flights and a
pitch, horse against horse." The laughing stopped; here was a new idea--the
quarter-bred blood horse, with his sleek bay quarters, against the scout's pony
--a good enough animal, but thin and overworked. The officer halted and stroked
his chin with his thumb and forefinger. "Hum--hum--yes; by Gad, if my horse
can't take that runt into camp, he isn't good enough for me. I'll go you." A
cheer went up from those assembled, and some hidden force carried the thrill
down the train, which halted. Uncle Sam's business could wait. The distance was
paced off on the level plain; the judges were set; the scouts and officers lined
up. The American's horse's eyes fairly bulged with excitement; he broke into a
dripping perspiration, but seemingly no one noticed this but Ermine. He knew
that the load of water would choke him in twenty yards. The old war-pony was
thin from overwork, but responsive as a dog to his bareback rider, and
dangerous-looking to one used to see ponies which show worse in condition than
out, by reason of the ungraceful architectural lines. The pistol spoke; the pony
gained three jumps from the mark. The American made the best of a bad job, but
Ermine was able to turn at the finish and back him over the judges' line. The
officer nearly had apoplexy, as he pulled up. He threw himself off the horse and
handed the reins to Ermine. The action of both challenge and race had been so
rapid and so badly calculated on the officer's part that he lacked time to
assimilate the idea that he was a fool. He tried to maintain a composure which
was lacking, as every one could see. "If you will get all my clothes, saddle,
and gun back from your comrades, I will give you your horse," said the scout.
The spectators who knew about the poker game now sat howling hopelessly on their
horses' backs. Searles and the others now came to their beaten friend's aid;
they shed their plunder in front of Ermine's horse, produced the saddle and gun
from a near-by escort wagon, laid them carefully down with the rest, and the
victor granted peace. "Here is your horse," said Ermine, and he laughed. The
occurrence had a serious side; the three officers were quick to appreciate that.
Searles stood in front of the scout and made utterance: "I want to say before
all these men that the poker game was not on the square--that we robbed you
purposely for a joke, and that we intended to give your property back to you to-
night; and I call on all these men to witness my remarks." "Yes, yes," came the
chorus; "it was all a joke. Searles said he would give it back. Don't hold it
out against him, Ermine," and other reassuring remarks. They recognized the
young scout's magnanimity as a conqueror. The laughing ceased; the thing
evidently had been carried too far. It would not sound well when told at Tongue
River. The unfortunate horse-race had made proper restitution impossible. By
this time John Ermine had his clothing and saddle arranged and was mounted. He
spoke:--

"Well, if that is so, if it only was a joke, I suppose I ought to say that I sat
up half of last night salting your horse. Look at him! He is blowing yet; he is
as full of water as a drowned buffalo. I am glad it did not kill him; let us
bury the axe." Major Searles and his fellows were unlike many jokers; they
slowly readjusted after the shock and laughed with the others. The march was
resumed, but the customary monotony of this slow pacing of interminable
landscape was often abruptly broken by individuals ha-haing loudly, as the
sequence of events took a new hold of their risibles; and Mr. John Ermine
tightened in an ever increasing hold on their fancies. Major Searles, riding
beside his horse-racing _confr√®re_, tried to cheer him. "Brace up, compadre;
that boy has you buffaloed. We are all right; we are nothing but a bunch of
monkeys. The only thing we forgot was that a fellow who has lived all his life
with Injuns is likely to know how to gamble and race horses. He'll be wanting to
juggle the bone[12] for us yet, and we are bound to go him." [12] Indian game of
"hand." "You bet," came the reply; "he has got us staked out, and he can come
along and do jig steps on our chest any time he feels like it. That is where we
have to moisten our lips and look pleasant, too." An old wagon boss sauntered by
on his mule with its mouth _√† la crocodile_. "Ha, ha! reckon you fellers has had
all the fun that's a-comin' to you. That boy had that last deck marked,
bottomed, sanded, and pricked, with more up his sleeve and some in the back of
his neck." John Ermine and Wolf-Voice, meanwhile, had gone well out in front of
the train, loping this way and that about the course of advance, with eyes for
everything. Presently they were seen to stop, turn, and come back, flying as
fast and straight as the antelope runs. "How now, by Gad! here's smoke for us!"
said Searles. No one laughed any more. Swift and noiseless as the birds came the
scouts; nearer and nearer, until their flying horses' hair could be seen; then
sounded the hoof-beats until they drew rein. Wolf-Voice's hair fairly stood up,
and his fierce little eyes danced attendance; he talked all the languages he
knew, and worked his free hand in most alarming sign signals to help his
expression. "What's up, Ermine?" said the Major. "Well, Major, the ground out
there is alive with fresh pony-tracks. I think you had better bunch up." The
train was strung out, having passed a bad "draw." Turning, the Major shouted:
"Close up in columns of fours! Deploy that escort out!" The order flew down the
train; the whips cracked, and the straining mules trotted into position; the
infantry guard ran out from the sides, shoving shells into the breech-blocks.
Even while this was in motion, a torrent of Sioux poured over the bluffs, back
of the flat, and came on. The soldiers dropped on to their knees in the sage-
brush. The Major spurred to the particular point for which they were headed,
followed by scouts and several mounted men. "Steady, men! hold your fire!" The
men were aiming, and each had five cartridges in his teeth. In a sonorous roll
came, "Steady--steady--steady!" And the gay stream of savagery bore on. "Fire!"
Like a double drag on a drum which gradually dies, the rifles rattled down the
extended line, all concentrated on the head of the flying column. The smoke
played along the gray sage; there was a sharp clatter of breech-blocks, and an
interval. "Ready! Fire!" and this repeated. The Major jogged to a wind-blown
place and saw that the column had veered to its right but was not checked.
Followed by his few mounted men, he rode along behind their line parallel with
the head of the charge, but before the slow and steady fire the Indian line drew
out. The train was caught in the circle, but the enemy had not the heart to ride
over the deadly skirmish line. The close columns of wagons now turned off down
toward the river, and, keeping their distances, the infantry followed it. Indian
ponies lay kicking out on the dry plain, and here and there could be seen
warriors who retired slowly from the racing Indians; they had been plugged.
Bullets kicked up the dust, and one or two soldiers had to be helped along by
their comrades. [Illustration: "BULLETS KICKED UP THE DUST."] The heated air
shimmered over the land; but for the rattle and thud of gun and pony, the clank,
snort, and whip-cracks among the wagons, the great, gray plains lay silent. No
eye save that of a self-considering golden eagle looked on, and he sailed
placidly far above. Ponies and mules strained and lathered, men sweated and
grunted and banged to kill; nature lay naked and insensate. The Indians made a
stand under the cut banks of the river, but were flanked out. The train drove
slowly into a corral form, when the mules were unhooked. The guard began to
rifle-pit among the wagons, and the Indians drew off to breathe their ponies.
They had stopped the train, but the "walk-a-heap" soldiers were behind the
wagons, which were full of "chuck," and water was at hand. Indians always
dreaded the foot-soldiers, who could not run away, and who would not surrender,
but worked their long rifles to the dying gasp; they were "heap bad medicine";
they were like wounded gray bears in a den of rocks--there was no reasonable
method for their capture. Major Searles jumped from his horse, took off his hat,
and mopped his forehead with his handkerchief. "So far, so good! so far, so
good! but not so very d---- far either," he mused. Towing his pony behind him,
Wolf-Voice came up, legs bowed and wobbly, horseback fashion when afoot. Calling
loudly, he said:--

"By Jeskris, Maje Searl, bout two-tree minit you bettar look out; dose Kul-tus-
til-akum she mak de grass burn yu up, by Gar. Win' she waas come deese way."
"Yes--yes, that's right. Here you, Ermine, and you, Lieutenant Smith, take what
men you want and kill a wounded mule--drag his hide over the grass to windward;
it is short and won't burn high. And, Lieutenant, give me all the men you can
over here; they will try to come through the smoke." Saying which, the Major
made his way to the ammunition wagons and had the mules hooked to them,
intending to run these into the river in case the fire came through. In fighting
Indians, the Major, who was an old hand, knew that one must act quickly, for
they are rapid tacticians and their blows come fast. These preparations had no
sooner been made than, true to Wolf-Voice's admonitions, the Indians came down,
and, just out of rifle-range, started the fire down wind. Almost no air was
stirring; the flames ran slowly through the short buffalo-grass, but weeds and
sage made considerable smoke, which came toward the train. The dripping carcass
of the mule was dragged in a ring round the windward side of the train; the
smoke eddied over the wagons; the Indians could not be seen; every man's eyes
and ears were strained and fingers twitched as they lay at an "aim" or "ready,"
among the wagon-wheels. The mules grew restive and sat back on their fastenings;
but there, matters had been well attended to, for the side-lines and hobbles
were leathered and laced. To the silent soldiers this was one of the times when
a man lives four years in twenty minutes; nothing can be compared to it but the
prolonged agony between your "Will you have me?" and her "yes" or "NO." As the
fire came nearer, they heard its gentle crackle, crackle; their nerves all
crackled in unison. It reached the bloody ring left by the poor mule--"would the
d---- Injuns never come?" At the guard line the flames died and crackled no
more. The smoke grew thinner, and at last they saw out through it; the Indians
held themselves safely out of rifle-shot. "Hum," said Searles, as he stepped
down from a wagon-wheel, "they didn't want any of this chicken pie." And then he
did what he was never known to do under ordinary circumstances; and when he was
through, the men cheered, and every mule-skinner who had heard him envied a man
who could talk it off just like that. "Ah, Maje Searl," chimed in Wolf-Voice,
"don' you been scare; dose Injuns no say goo'by yet, mabeso." And they did not
say good-by. They dismounted and went behind the washes in the shallow river.
They peppered and banged the men as they watered the stock, the perilous trip
only being made behind a strong skirmish line with three men hit and a half-
dozen mules. The soldiers ate a quiet supper and put out the fires before the
sun went down. The Indians, with the declining light, crawled in on the train
and pecked at the monster. "Pe-e-e-eing" went a bullet on a wagon-tire; "slap"
went another on a wagon-box; "thud," as one buried in a grain-bag; "phud," and
the ball made a mule grunt; but the echoing Springfields spit their 45's at the
flashes. Searles sent for Ermine and Wolf-Voice, and sitting on the grass behind
a barricade of grain-sacks, he began: "We are corralled, and I haven't escort
enough to move. I can hold out till snow, but can't graze my stock. Some one has
to go back for re√´nforcements. Will you go? It can be made on a good horse by
morning." "Well, Major, I'll try it. I can go if I can get through with a fair
start. The moon will come up later, and I must go now while there is a chance,"
said Ermine. "Will you go also, Mr. Wolf-Voice?" "Well, hit be good chance for
geet keel. Yaes, I go, mebeso, feefty doaller," vouchsafed that worthy, after
nicely balancing the chances. "What do you want for going, John Ermine?" asked
the Major. "I don't want anything. I came to fight the Sioux. I do not go to war
for fifty dollars." But it was too dark for the half-breed to see the contempt
in Ermine's face, so he only shrugged his shoulders and contented himself with,
"Oh, weel, mabeso dose soldier-man go for not so much. I do not." "All right,
all right! I'll give you an order for fifty dollars. Here are the papers." And
the Major handed one to each. "Now, don't lose them, whatever else you do." "Ma
pony, she steef, no good. I was go on de foot." And Wolf-Voice proceeded to skin
off his motley garments. In these desperate situations he believed in the
exemplar of his name; its methods were less heroic but more sure. Ermine half
stripped himself, and his horse wholly; bound up the tail, and in the gloom
rubbed the old dried horse's hoof on his heels. It had, at least, never done any
harm, and at times favored him. Sak-a-war-te and the God of the white men--he
did not know whether they were one or two. Trusting his valuables to the care of
the Major, he was let out of the corral after a good rattle of firing, into the
darkness, away from the river. Only a few rifles ripped the night air in
response to this, which he took to indicate that the better part of the Indians
were along the river. He glided away, leading his pony, and the last the
soldiers saw was the flash of a gun turned in an opposite direction from the
wagon train. Neither Wolf-Voice or Ermine again appeared. The slow fight
continued during the night and all the next day, but by evening the Indians
disappeared. They had observed the approach of re√´nforcements, which came in
during the following morning, led by Ermine. Wolf-Voice, who had been on foot,
did not make the rapid time of his mounted partner, but had gone through and
acquired the fifty dollars, which was the main object. CHAPTER XI

THE TRUTH OF THE EYES

The soldiers who had been in the wagon-train fight carried John Ermine's fame
into cantonments, and Major Searles never grew tired of the p√¶an:--

"I do not go to war for fifty dollars,       You can bet your boots that isn't
not me lay. When I fight, it's only glory which I collars,       Also to get me
little beans and hay." But his more ardent admirers frowned on this doggerel,
and reminded the songsters that no one of them would have made that courier's
ride for a thousand acres of Monongahela rye in bottles. As for Wolf-Voice, they
appreciated his attitude. "Business is business, and it takes money to buy
marbles," said one to another. [Illustration]

But on the completion of the rude huts at the mouth of the Tongue, and when the
last wagon train had come through, there was an ominous preparation for more
serious things. It was in the air. Every white soldier went loping about, doing
everything from greasing a wagon to making his will. "Ah, sacre, John," quoth
Wolf-Voice, "am much disturb; dese Masta-Shella[13] waas say dis big chief--what
you call de Miles?--she medicin fighter; she very bad mans; she keep de
soldiers' toes sore all de taime. She no give de dam de cole-moon, de yellow-
grass moon; she hump de Sioux. Why for we mak to trouble our head? We have dose
box, dose bag, dose barrel to heat, en de commissaire--wael 'nough grub las' our
lifetaime; but de soldier say sure be a fight soon; dat Miles she begin for paw
de groun'--it be sure sign. Wael, we mak' a skin dat las fight, hey, John?" [13]
White men. Ermine in his turn conceived a new respect for the white soldiers. If
their heels were heavy, so were their arms when it came to the final hug. While
it was not apparent to him just how they were going to whip the Sioux and
Cheyenne, it was very evident that the Indians could not whip the soldiers; and
this was demonstrated directly when Colonel Miles, with his hardy infantry,
charged over Sitting Bull's camp, and while outnumbered three to his one,
scattered and drove the proud tribesmen and looted their tepees. Not satisfied
with this, the grim soldier crawled over the snow all winter with his buffalo-
coated men, defying the blizzards, kicking the sleeping warriors out of their
blankets, killing and chasing them into the cold starvation of the hills. So
persistent and relentless were the soldiers that they fought through the
captured camps when the cold was so great that the men had to stop in the midst
of battle to light fires, to warm their fingers, which were no longer able to
work the breech-locks. Young soldiers cried in the ranks as they perished in the
frigid atmosphere; but notwithstanding, they never stopped. The enemy could find
no deep defile in the lonely mountains where they were safe; and entrench where
they would among the rocks, the steady line charged over them, pouring bullets
and shell. Ermine followed their fortunes and came to understand the dying of
"the ten thousand men." These people went into battle with the intention of
dying if not victorious. They never consulted their heels, no matter what the
extremity. By the time of the green grass the warriors of the northern plains
had either sought their agencies or fled to Canada. Through it all Ermine had
marched and shot and frozen with the rest. He formed attachments for his
comrades--that enthusiastic affection which men bring from the camp and battle-
field, signed by suffering and sealed with blood. CHAPTER XII

[Illustration]

KATHERINE

The snow had gone. The plains and boxlike bluff around the cantonments had
turned to a rich velvet of green. The troops rested after the tremendous
campaigns in the snow-laden, wind-swept hills, with the consciousness of work
well done. The Indians who had been brought in during the winter were taking
their first heart-breaking steps along the white man's road. The army teams
broke the prairie, and they were planting the seed. The disappearance of the
buffalo and the terrible white chief Bear-Coat,[14] who followed and fought them
in the fiercest weather, had broken their spirits. The prophecies of the old
beaver-men, which had always lain heavily on the Indian mind, had come true at
last--the whites had come; they had tried to stop them and had failed. [14]
General Miles. The soldiers' nerves tingled as they gathered round the landing.
They cheered and laughed and joked, slapped and patted hysterically, and forgot
the bilious officialism entirely. Far down the river could be seen the black
funnel of smoke from the steamboat--their only connection with the world of the
white men. It bore letters from home, luxuries for the mess-chest, and best of
all, news of the wives and children who had been left behind when they went to
war. Every one was in a tremor of expectancy except the Indians, who stood
solemnly apart in their buffalo-robes, and John Ermine. The steamboat did not
come from their part of the world, and brought nothing to them; still Ermine
reflected the joyousness of those around him, and both he and the Indians knew a
feast for their eyes awaited them. In due course the floating house--for she
looked more like one than a boat--pushed her way to the landing, safe from her
thousand miles of snags and sandbars. A cannon thudded and boomed. The soldiers
cheered, and the people on the boat waved handkerchiefs when they did not use
them to wipe happy tears away; officers who saw their beloved ones walked to and
fro in caged impatience. When the gang-planks were run out, they swarmed aboard
like Malay pirates. Such hugging and kissing as followed would have been
scandalous on an ordinary occasion; lily-white faces were quite buried in
sunburnt mustaches on mahogany-brown skins. The unmarried men all registered a
vow to let no possible occasion to get married escape them, and little boys and
girls were held aloft in brawny arms paternal. A riot of good spirits reigned.
"For Heaven's sake, Mary, did you bring me my summer underwear?" "Oh, don't say
you forgot a box of cigars, Mattie." "If you have any papers or novels, they
will save me from becoming an idiot," and a shower of childish requests from
their big boys greeted the women. In truth, it must be stated that at this
period the fashion insisted upon a disfigurement of ladies which must leave a
whole generation of noble dames forgotten by artists of all time. They loosened
and tightened their forms at most inappropriate places; yet underneath this
fierce distortion of that bane of woman, Dame Fashion, the men were yet able to
remember there dwelt bodies as beautiful as any Greek ever saw or any attenuated
Empire dandy fancied. "Three cheers for the first white women on the northern
buffalo range!" "See that tent over there?" asked an officer of his 'Missis,' as
he pointed toward camp; "well, that's our happy home; how does it strike you?" A
bunch of "shave-tails" were marched ashore amid a storm of good-natured raillery
from the "vets" and mighty glad to feel once again the grit under their brogans.
Roustabouts hustled bags and boxes into the six-mule wagons. The engine blew off
its exhaust in a frail attempt to drown the awful profanity of the second mate,
while humanity boiled and bubbled round the great river-box. The Indians stood
motionless, but their keen eyes missed no details of the strange medley. Ermine
leaned on a wagon-tail, carefully paring a thin stick with a jack-knife. He was
arrayed for a gala day in new soldier trousers, a yellow buckskin shirt
beautifully beaded by the Indian method, a spotted white handkerchief around his
neck, buckskin leggings on the lower leg above gay moccasins, a huge skinning-
knife and revolver in his belt, and a silver watch chain. His golden hair was
freshly combed, and his big rakish sombrero had an eagle feather fastened to the
crown, dropping idly to one side, where the soft wind eddied it about. The John
Ermine of the mountain den was a June-bug beside this butterfly, but no
assortment of color can compete with a scarlet blanket when the clear western
sun strikes on it; so in consequence Ermine was subdued by Wolf-Voice, who stood
beside him thus arrayed. As the people gathered their bags and parcels, they
came ashore in small groups, the women and children giving the wild Indians the
heed which their picturesque appearance called for, much of this being in the
form of little shivers up and down the spine. A true old wolf-headed buffalo
Indian would make a Japanese dragon look like a plate of ice-cream, and the Old
Boy himself would have to wave his tail, prick up his sharp ears, and display
the best of his Satanic learning to stand the comparison. Major Searles passed
on with the rest, beaming like a June morning, his arms full of woman's
equipment--Mrs. Searles on one side and his daughter on the other. "Hello,
Ermine." "How do, Major?" spoke the scout as he cast his whittling from him.
"This is John Ermine, who saved my life last winter, my dear. This is Mrs.
Searles, John." She bowed, but the scout shook hands with her. Miss Searles,
upon presentation, gave Ermine a most chilling bow, if raising the chin and
dropping the upper eyelids can be so described; and the man who pushed his pony
fearlessly among the whirling savages recoiled before her batteries and stood
irresolute. Wolf-Voice, who had not been indicated by the Major, now approached,
his weird features lighted up with what was intended as pleasantry, but which
instead was rather alarming. "How! how me heap glad to see you." And to Miss
Searles, "How! how you heap look good." After which they passed on. "My, my,
papa, did you ever see such beautiful hair as that man Ermine has?" said
Katherine Searles. "It was a perfect dream." "Yes, good crop that--'nough to
stuff a mattress with; looks better to-day than when it's full of alkali dust,"
replied the Major. "If the young man lost his hat, it would not be a calamity,"
observed the wife. "And, papa, who was that dreadful Indian in the red blanket?"
[Illustration: KATHERINE.] "Oh, an old scoundrel named Wolf-Voice, but useful in
his place. You must never feed him, Sarah, or he will descend on us like the
plague of locusts. If he ever gets his teeth into one of our biscuits, I'll have
to call out the squad to separate him from our mess-chest." A strange thought
flashed through John Ermine's head--something more like the stroke of an axe
than a thought, and it had deprived him of the power of speech. Standing
motionless and inert, he watched the girl until she was out of sight. Then he
walked away from the turmoil, up along the river-bank. Having gained a
sufficient distance, he undid the front of his shirt and took out a buckskin
bag, which hung depended from his neck. It contained his dried horse's hoof and
the photograph of a girl, the one he had picked up in the moonlight on the trail
used by the soldiers from Fort Ellis. He gazed at it for a time, and said
softly, "They are the same, that girl and this shadow." And he stood
scrutinizing it, the eyes looking straight into his as they had done so often
before, until he was intimate with the image by a thousand vain imaginings. He
put it back in his bag, buttoned his shirt, and stood in a brown study, with his
hands behind his back, idly stirring the dust with the point of one moccasin.
"It must have been--it must have been Sak-a-war-te who guided me in the
moonlight to that little shadow paper there in the road--to that little spot in
all this big country; in the night-time and just where we cut that long road; it
means something--it must be." And he could get no farther with his thoughts as
he walked to his quarters. Along the front of the officers' row he saw the
bustle, and handshaking, laughter, and quick conversation. Captain Lewis came by
with a tall young man in citizen's clothes, about whom there was a blacked,
brushed, shaved appearance quite new on the Tongue. "I say, and who is that
stunning chap?" said this one to Lewis, in Ermine's hearing. "One of my men. Oh,
come here, Ermine. This is Mr. Sterling Harding, an Englishman come out to see
this country and hunt. You may be able to tell him some things he wants to
know." The two young men shook hands and stood irresolutely regarding each
other. Which had the stranger thoughts concerning the other or the more
curiosity cannot be stated, but they both felt the desire for better
acquaintance. Two strangers on meeting always feel this--or indifference, and
sometimes repulsion. The relations are established in a glance. [Illustration:
THE ENGLISHMAN.] "Oh, I suppose, Mr. Ermine, you have shot in this country."
"Yes, sir,"--Ermine had extended the "sir" beyond shoulder-straps to include
clean shirts,--"I have shot most every kind of thing we have in this country
except a woman." "Oh! ha! ha ha!" And Harding produced a cigar-case. "A woman? I
suppose there hasn't been any to shoot until this boat came. Do you intend to
try your hand on one? Will you have a cigar?" "No, sir; I only meant to say I
had shot things. I suppose you mean have I hunted." "Yes, yes--exactly; hunted
is what I mean." "Well then, Mr. Sterling Harding, I have never done anything
else." "Mr. Harding, I will leave you with Ermine; I have some details to look
after. You will come to our mess for luncheon at noon?" interjected Captain
Lewis. "Yes, with pleasure, Captain." Whereat the chief of scouts took himself
off. "I suppose, Mr. Ermine, that the war is quite over, and that one may feel
free to go about here without being potted by the aborigines," said Harding.
"The what? Never heard of them. I can go where I like without being killed, but
I have to keep my eyes skinned." "Would you be willing to take me out? I should
expect to incur the incidental risks of the enterprise," asked the Englishman,
who had taken the incidental risks of tigers in India and sought "big heads" in
many countries irrespective of dangers. "Why, yes; I guess Wolf-Voice and I
could take you hunting easily enough if the Captain will let us go. We never
know here what Bear-Coat is going to do next; it may be 'boots and saddles' any
minute," replied the scout. "Oh, I imagine, since Madam has appeared, he may
remain quiet and I really understand the Indians have quite fled the country,"
responded Harding. "Mabeso; you don't know about Indians, Mr. Harding. Indians
are uncertain; they may come back again when their ponies fill up on the green
grass." "Where would you propose to go, may I ask?" Ermine thought for a time,
and asked, "Would you mind staying out all one moon, Mr. Harding?" "One moon?
You mean thirty days. Yes, three moons, if necessary. My time is not precious.
Where would you go?" "Back in the mountains--back on the Stinking Water; a long
way from here, but a good place for the animals. It is where I come from, and I
haven't been home in nearly a year. I should like to see my people," continued
Ermine. "Anywhere will do; we will go to the Stinking Water, which I hope belies
its name. You have relatives living there, I take it." "Not relatives; I have no
relations anywhere on the earth, but I have friends," he replied. "When shall we
start?" Ermine waved his hand a few times at the sky and said "So many," but it
failed to record on the Englishman's mind. He was using the sign language. The
scout noted this, and added, "Ten suns from now I will go if I can." "Very well;
we will purchase ponies and other necessaries meanwhile, and will you aid me in
the preparations, Mr. Ermine? How many ponies shall we require?" "Two apiece--
one to ride and the other to pack," came the answer to the question. A great
light dawned upon Harding's mind. To live a month with what one Indian pony
could carry for bedding, clothes, cartridges, and food. His new friend failed,
in his mind, to understand the requirements of an English gentleman on such
quests. "But, Mr. Ermine, how should I transport my heads back to this point
with only one pack-animal?" "Heads? heads? back here?" stumbled the light-
horseman. "What heads?" "Why, the heads of such game as I might be so fortunate
as to kill." "What do you want of their heads? We never take the heads. We give
them to our little friends, the coyotes," queried Ermine. "Yes, yes, but I must
have the heads to take back to England with me. I am afraid, Mr. Ermine, we
shall have to be more liberal with our pack-train. However, we will go into the
matter at greater length later." Sterling Harding wanted to refer to the Captain
for further understanding of his new guide. He felt that Lewis could make the
matter plain to Ermine by more direct methods than he knew how to employ. As the
result of world-wide wanderings, he knew that the Captain would have to explain
to Ermine that he was a crazy Englishman who was all right, but who must be
humored. To Harding this idea was not new; he had played his blood-letting ardor
against all the forms of outlandish ignorance. The savages of many lands had
eaten the bodies of which the erratic Englishman wanted only the heads. So to
Lewis went Harding. "I say, Captain, your Ermine there is an artless fellow. He
is proposing to Indianize me, to take me out for a whole moon, as he calls it,
with only one pack-pony to carry my belongings. Also he fails, I think, to
comprehend that I want to bring back the heads of my game." "Ha! I will make
that plain to him. You see, Mr. Harding, you are the first Englishman he ever
encountered; fact is he is range bred, unbranded and wild. I have ridden him,
but I use considerable discretion when I do it, or he would go up in the air on
me," explained Lewis. "He is simple, but he is honest, faithful, and one of the
very few white men who know this Indian country. Long ago there were a great
many hunters and trappers in these parts; men who worked for the fur companies,
but they have all been driven out of the country of late years by the Indians,
and you will be lucky to get Ermine. There are plenty of the half-breeds left,
but you cannot trust them. They might steal from you, they might abandon you, or
they might kill you. Ermine will probably take you into the Crow country, for he
is solid with those people. Why, half the time when I order Crow scouts to do
something they must first go and make a talk with Ermine. He has some sort of a
pull with them--God knows what. You may find it convenient to agree with him at
times when you naturally would not; these fellows are independent and follow
their fancies pretty much. They don't talk, and when they get an idea that they
want to do anything, they proceed immediately to do it. Ermine has been with me
nearly a year now, but I never know what minute I am to hear he has pulled out."
Seeing Ermine some little distance away, the Captain sent an orderly after him.
He came and leant with one hand on the tent-pole of the fly. "Ermine, I think
you had better take one or two white packers and at least eight or ten animals
with you when you go with Mr. Harding." "All right, sir, we can take as many
packers as he likes, but no wagons." Having relieved the scout of his
apprehensions concerning wagons, the bond was sealed with a cigar, and he
departed, thinking of old Crooked-Bear's prediction that the white men would
take him to their hearts. Underneath the happy stir of his faculties on this
stimulating day there played a new emotion, indefinite, undefinable, a drifting,
fluttering butterfly of a thought which never alighted anywhere. All day long it
flitted, hovered, and made errant flights across his golden fancies--a
glittering, variegated little puff of color. CHAPTER XIII

PLAYING WITH FIRE

On the following morning Harding hunted up John Ermine, and the two walked about
together, the Englishman trying to fire the scout with his own passion for
strange lands and new heads. To the wild plainsman the land was not new; hunting
had its old everyday look, and the stuffed heads of game had no significance.
His attention was constantly interrupted by the little flutter of color made
more distinct by a vesper before the photograph. "Let us go and find your
friend, Wolf-Voice," said Harding, which they did, and the newcomer was
introduced. The Englishman threw kindly, wondering eyes over the fiercely
suspicious face of the half-breed, whose evil orbs spitted back at him. "Ah,
yees--you was go hunt. All-right; I weel mak' you run de buffalo, shoot dose
elk, trap de castor, an you shall shake de han' wid de grizzly bear. How much
money I geet--hey?" "Ah, you will get the customary wages, my friend, and if you
give me an opportunity to shake hands with a grizzly, your reward will be
forthcoming," replied the sportsman. "Very weel; keep yur heye skin on me, when
you see me run lak hell--weel, place where I was run way from, dare ees
mousier's grizzly bear, den you was go up shake han', hey?" Harding laughed and
offered the man a cigar, which he handled with four fingers much as he might a
tomahawk, having none of the delicate art native to the man of cigars or
cigarettes. A match was proffered, and Wolf-Voice tried diligently to light the
wrong end. The Englishman violently pulled Ermine away, while he nearly
strangled with suppressed laughter. It was distinctly clear that Wolf-Voice must
go with them. "Your friend Wolf-Voice seems to be quite an individual person."
"Yes, the soldiers are always joshing him, but he doesn't mind. Sometimes they
go too far. I have seen him draw that skinning-knife, and away they go like a
flock of birds. Except when he gets loaded with soldier whiskey, he is all
right. He is a good man away from camp," said Ermine. "He does not appear to be
a thoroughbred Indian," observed Harding. "No, he's mixed; he's like that soup
the company cooks make. He is not the best man in the world, but he is a better
man in more places than I ever saw," said Ermine, in vindication. "Shall we go
down to the Indian camp and try to buy some ponies, Ermine?" "No, I don't go
near the Sioux; I am a kind of Crow. I have fought with them. They forgive the
soldiers, but their hearts are bad when they look at me. I'll get Ramon to go
with you when you buy the horses. Ramon was a small trader before the war, used
to going about with a half-dozen pack-horses, but the Sioux ran him off the
range. He has pack saddles and rawhide bags, which you can hire if you want to,"
was explained. "All right; take me to Ramon if you will." "I smoke," said Ermine
as he led the way. Having seen that worthy depart on his trading mission with
Harding in tow, Ermine felt relieved. Impulse drew him to the officers' row,
where he strolled about with his hands in his cartridge-belt. Many passing by
nodded to him or spoke pleasantly. Some of the newly arrived ladies even
attempted conversation; but if the soldiers of a year ago were difficult for
Ermine, the ladies were impossible. He liked them; their gentle faces, their
graceful carriage, their evident interest in him, and their frank address called
out all his appreciation. They were a revelation after the squaws, who had never
suggested any of these possibilities. But they refused to come mentally near
him, and he did not know the trail which led to them. He answered their
questions, agreed with whatever they said, and battled with his diffidence until
he made out to borrow a small boy from one mother, proposing to take him down to
the scout camp and quartermaster's corral to view the Indians and mules. He had
thought out the proposition that the Indians were just as strange to the white
people as the white people were to them, consequently he saw a social opening.
He would mix these people up so that they could stare at each other in mutual
perplexity and bore one another with irrelevant remarks and questions. "Did Mr.
Butcher-Knife miss Madam Butcher-Knife?" asked a somewhat elderly lady on one
occasion, whereat the Indian squeezed out an abdominal grunt and sedately
observed to "Hairy-Arm," in his own language, that "the fat lady could sit down
comfortably," or words that would carry this thought. The scout who was acting
as their leader upon this occasion emitted one loud "A-ha!" before he could
check himself. The lady asked what had been said. Ermine did not violate a rule
clearly laid down by Crooked-Bear, to the effect that lying was the sure sign of
a man's worthlessness. He answered that they were merely speaking of something
which he had not seen, thus satisfying his _prot√©g√©_. After a round or two of
these visits this novelty was noised about the quarters, and Ermine found
himself suddenly accosted. By his side was the original of his cherished
photograph, accompanied by Lieutenant Butler of the cavalry, a tall young man
whose body and movements had been made to conform to the West Point standards.
"Miss Searles has been presented, I believe. She is desirous of visiting the
scout camp. Would you kindly take us down?" John Ermine's soul drifted out
through the top of his head in unseen vapors, but he managed to say that he
would. He fell in beside the young woman, and they walked on together. To be so
near the reality, the literal flesh and blood of what had been a long series of
efflorescent dreams, quite stirred him. He gathered slowly, after each quick
glance into the eyes which were not like those in the photograph; there they
were set and did not resent his fancies; here they sparkled and talked and
looked unutterable things at the helpless errant. Miss Searles had been to a
finishing school in the East, and either the school was a very good one or the
little miss exceedingly apt, but both more probably true. She had the delicate
pearls and peach-bloom on her cheeks to which the Western sun and winds are such
persistent enemies, and a dear little nose tipped heavenward, as careless as a
cat hunting its grandmother. The rustle of her clothes mingled with little songs
which the wind sang to the grass, a faint freshness of body with delicate
spring-flower odors drifted to Ermine's active nostrils. But the eyes, the eyes,
why did they not brood with him as in the picture? Why did they arch and laugh
and tantalize? His earthly senses had fled; gone somewhere else and left a riot
in his blood. He tripped and stumbled, fell down, and crawled over answers to
her questions, and he wished Lieutenant Butler was farther away than a pony
could run in a week. She stopped to raise her dress above the dusty road, and
the scout overrode the alignment. "Mr. Ermine, will you please carry my parasol
for me?" [Illustration: "'WILL YOU PLEASE CARRY MY PARASOL FOR ME?'"] The object
in question was newer to him than a man-of-war would have been. The prophet had
explained about the great ships, but he had forgotten parasols. He did not
exactly make out whether the thing was to keep the sun off, or to hide her face
from his when she wanted to. He retraced his steps, wrapped his knuckles around
the handle with a drowning clutch, and it burned his hand. If previously it had
taken all his force to manoeuvre himself, he felt now that he would bog down
under this new weight. Atlas holding the world had a flying start of Ermine. He
raised it above her head, and she looked up at him so pleasantly, that he felt
she realized his predicament; so he said, "Miss Searles, if I lug this baby tent
into that scout camp, they will either shoot at us, or crawl the ponies and
scatter out for miles. I think they would stand if you or the Lieutenant pack
it; but if I do this, there won't be anything to see but ponies' tails wavering
over the prairie." "Oh, thank you; I will come to your rescue, Mr. Ermine." And
she did. "It is rather ridiculous, a parasol, but I do not intend to let the sun
have its way with me." And glancing up, "Think if you had always carried a
parasol, what a complexion you would have." "But men don't carry them, do they?"
"Only when it rains; they do then, back in the States," she explained. Ermine
replied, "They do--hum!" and forthwith refused to consider men who did it. "I
think, Mr. Ermine, if I were an Indian, I should very much like to scalp you. I
cannot cease to admire your hair." "Oh, you don't have to be an Indian, to do
that. Here is my knife; you can go ahead any time you wish," came the cheerful
response. "Mr. Butler, our friend succumbs easily to any fate at my hands, it
seems. I wonder if he would let me eat him," said the girl. "I will build the
fire and put the kettle on for you." And Ermine was not joking in the least,
though no one knew this. They were getting into the dangerous open fields, and
Miss Searles urged the scout in a different direction. "Have you ever been
East?" "Yes," he replied, "I have been to Fort Buford." The parasol came between
them, and presently, "Would you like to go east of Buford--I mean away east of
Buford," she explained. "No; I don't want to go east or west, north or south of
here," came the astonishing answer all in good faith, and Miss Searles mentally
took to her heels. She feared seriousness. "Oh, here are the Indians," she
gasped, as they strode into the grotesque grouping. "I am afraid, Mr. Ermine--I
know it is silly." "What are you afraid of, Miss Searles?" "I do not know; they
look at me so!" And she gave a most delicious little shiver. "You can't blame
them for that; they're not made of wood." But this lost its force amid her
peripatetic reflections. "That's Broken-Shoe; that's White-Robe; that's
Batailleur--oh, well, you don't care what their names are; you probably will not
see them again." "They are more imposing when mounted and dashing over the
plains, I assure you. At a distance, one misses the details which rather obtrude
here," ventured Butler. "Very well; I prefer them where I am quite sure they
will not dash. I very much prefer them sitting down quietly--such fearful-
looking faces. Oh my, they should be kept in cages like the animals in the Zoo.
And do you have to fight such people, Mr. Butler?" "We do," replied the officer,
lighting a cigarette. This point of view was new and amusing. One of the Indians
approached the party. Ermine spoke to him in a loud, guttural, carrying voice,
so different from his quiet use of English, that Miss Searles fairly jumped. The
change of voice was like an explosion. "Go back to your robe, brother; the white
squaw is afraid of you--go back, I say!" The intruder hesitated, stopped, and
fastened Ermine with the vacant stare which in such times precede sudden,
uncontrollable fury among Indians. Again Ermine spoke: "Go back, you brown son
of mules; this squaw is my friend; I tell you she is afraid of you. I am not. Go
back, and before the sun is so high I will come to you. Make this boy go back,
Broken-Shoe; he is a fool." The old chieftain emitted a few hollow grunts, with
a click between, and the young Indian turned away. "My! Mr. Ermine, what are you
saying? Have I offended the Indian? He looks daggers; let us retire--oh my, let
us go--quick--quick!" And Ermine, by the flutter of wings, knew that his bird
had flown. He followed, and in the safety of distance she lightly put her hand
on his arm. "What was it all about, Mr. Ermine? Do tell me." Ermine's brain was
not working on schedule time, but he fully realized what the affront to the
Indian meant in the near future. He knew he would have to make his words good;
but when the creature of his dreams was involved, he would have measured arms
with a grizzly bear. "He would not go back," said the scout, simply. "But for
what was he coming?" she asked. "For you," was the reply. "Goodness gracious! I
had done nothing; did he want to kill me?" "No, he wanted to shake hands with
you; he is a fool." "Oh, only to shake hands with me? And why did you not let
him? I could have borne that." "Because he is a fool," the scout ventured, and
then in tones which carried the meaning, "Shake hands with you!" "I see; I
understand; you were protecting me; but he must hate you. I believe he will harm
you; those dreadful Indians are so relentless, I have heard. Why did we ever go
near the creatures? What will he do, Mr. Ermine?" The scout cast his eye
carefully up at the sky and satisfied the curiosity of both by drawling, "A--
hu!" "Well--well, Mr. Ermine, do not ever go near them again; I certainly would
not if I were you. I shall see papa and have you removed from those ghastly
beings. It is too dreadful. I have seen all I care to of them; let us go home,
Mr. Butler." The two--the young lady and the young man--bowed to Ermine, who
touched the brim of his sombrero, after the fashion of the soldiers. They
departed up the road, leaving Ermine to go, he knew not where, because he wanted
to go only up the road. The abruptness of white civilities hashed the scout's
contempt for time into fine bits; but he was left with something definite, at
least, and that was a deep, venomous hatred for Lieutenant Butler; that was
something he could hang his hat on. Then he thought of the "fool," and his
footsteps boded ill for that one. "That Ermine is such a tremendous man; do you
not think so, Mr. Butler?" "He seems a rather forceful person in his simple
way," coincided the officer. "You apparently appeal to him strongly. He is
downright romantic in his address, but I cannot find fault with the poor man. I
am equally unfortunate." "Oh, don't, Mr. Butler; I cannot stand it; you are, at
least, sophisticated." "Yes, I am sorry to say I am." "Oh, please, Mr. Butler,"
with a deprecating wave of her parasol, "but tell me, aren't you afraid of
them?" "I suppose you mean the Indians. Well, they certainly earned my respect
during the last campaign. They are the finest light-horse in the world, and if
they were not encumbered with the women, herds, and villages; if they had plenty
of ammunition and the buffalo would stay, I think there would be a great many
army widows, Miss Searles." "It is dreadful; I can scarcely remember my father;
he has been made to live in this beast of a country since I was a child." Such
was the lofty view the young woman took of her mundane progress. "Shades of the
vine-clad hills and citron groves of the Hudson River! I fear we brass buttoners
are cut off. I should have been a lawyer or a priest--no, not a priest; for when
I look at a pretty girl I cannot feel any priesthood in my veins." Miss Searles
whistled the bars of "Halt" from under the fortification of the parasol. "Oh,
well, what did the Lord make pretty women for?" "I do not know, unless to
demonstrate the foolishness of the line of Uncle Sam's cavalry," speculated the
arch one. "Mr. Butler, if you do not stop, I shall run." "All right; I am under
arrest, so do not run; we are nearly home. I reserve my right to resume
hostilities, however. I insist on fair play with your sage-brush admirer. Since
we met in St. Louis, I have often wondered if we should ever see each other
again. I always ardently wished we could." "Mr. Butler, you are a poor imitation
of our friend Ermine; he, at least, makes one feel that he means what he says,"
she rejoined. "And you were good enough to remind me that I was sophisticated."
"I may have been mistaken," she observed. She played the batteries of her eyes
on the unfortunate soldier, and all of his formations went down before them. He
was in love, and she knew it, and he knew she knew it. He felt like a fool, but
tried not to act one, with the usual success of lovers. He was an easy victim of
one of those greatest of natural weaknesses men have. She had him staked out and
could bring him into her camp at any time the spirit moved her. Being a young
person just from school, she found affairs easier than she had been led to
suspect. In the usual girl way she had studied her casts, lures, and baits, but
in reality they all seemed unnecessary, and she began to think some lethal
weapon which would keep her admirers at a proper distance more to the purpose.
The handsome trooper was in no great danger, she felt, only she must have time;
she did not want everything to happen in a minute, and the greatest dream of
life vanish forever. Besides, she intended never, under any circumstances, to
haul down her flag and surrender until after a good, hard siege. They entered
the cabin of the Searles, and there told the story of the morning's adventures.
Mrs. Searles had the Indians classified with rattlesnakes, green devils, and
hyenas, and expected scenes of this character to happen. The Major wanted more
details concerning Ermine. "Just what did he say, Butler?" "I do not know; he
spoke in some Indian language." "Was he angry, and was the Indian who approached
you mad?" "They were like two dogs who stand ready to fight,--teeth bared,
muscles rigid, eyes set and just waiting for their nerves to snap," explained
Butler. "Oh, some d---- Indian row, no one knows what, and Ermine won't tell;
yet as a rule these people are peaceful among themselves. I will ask him about
it," observed the Major. "Why can't you have Mr. Ermine removed from that awful
scout camp, papa? Why can't he be brought up to some place near here? I do not
see why such a beautiful white person as he is should have to associate with
those savages," pleaded the graceful Katherine. "Don't worry about Ermine,
daughter; you wouldn't have him rank the Colonel out of quarters, would you? I
will look into this matter a little." Meanwhile the young scout walked rapidly
toward his camp. He wanted to do something with his hands, something which would
let the gathering electricity out at his finger-ends and relieve the strain, for
the trend of events had irritated him. Going straight to his tent, he picked up
his rifle, loaded it, and buckled on the belt containing ammunition for it. He
twisted his six-shooter round in front of him, and worked his knife up and down
in its sheath. Then he strode out, going slowly down to the scout fire. The day
was warm; the white-hot sun cut traceries of the cottonwood trees on the ground.
A little curl of blue smoke rose straight upward from the fire, and in a wide
ring of little groups sat or lounged the scouts. They seemingly paid no
attention to the approach of Ermine, but one could not determine this; the
fierce Western sun closes the eyelids in a perpetual squint, and leaves the
beady eyes a chance to rove unobserved at a short distance. Ermine came over and
walked into the circle, stopping in front of the fire, thus facing the young
Indian to whom he had used the harsh words. There was no sound except the rumble
of a far-off government mule team and the lazy buzz of flies. He deliberately
rolled a cigarette. Having done this to his satisfaction, he stooped down
holding it against the coals, and it was ages before it caught fire. Then he put
it to his lips, blew a cloud of smoke in the direction of his foe, and spoke in
Absaroke. "Well, I am here." The silence continued; the Indian looked at him
with a dull steady stare, but did nothing; finally Ermine withdrew. He
understood; the Indian did not consider the time or opportunity propitious, but
the scout did not flatter himself that such a time or place would never come.
That was the one characteristic of an Indian of which a man could be certain.
CHAPTER XIV

IN LOVE

John Ermine lay on his back in his tent, with one leg crossed over the other.
His eyes were idly attracted by the play of shadows on the ducking, but his mind
was visiting other places. He was profoundly discontented. During his life he
had been at all times an easy-going person--taught in a rude school to endure
embarrassing calamities and long-continued personal inconveniences by flood and
hunger, bullets and snow. He had no conception of the civilized trait of
acquisitiveness whereby he had escaped that tantalization. He desired military
distinction, but he had gotten that. No man strode the camp whose deeds were
better recognized than his, not even the Colonel commanding. His attitude toward
mankind had always been patient and kindly except when urged into other channels
by war. He even had schooled himself to the irksome labor at the prophet's mine,
low delving which seemed useless; and had acquiesced while Crooked-Bear stuffed
his head with the thousand details of white mentality; but now vaguely he began
to feel a lack of something, an effort which he had not made--a something he had
left undone; a difference and a distinction between himself and the officers who
were so free to associate with the creature who had borrowed his mind and given
nothing in return. No one in the rude campaigning which had been the lot of all
since he joined had made any noticeable social distinction toward him--rather
otherwise; they had sought and trusted him, and more than that, he had been
singled out for special good will. He was free to call at any officer's quarters
on the line, sure of a favorable reception; then why did he not go to Major
Searles's? At the thought he lay heavier on the blanket, and dared not trust his
legs to carry out his inclinations. The camp was full of fine young officers who
would trust their legs and risk their hearts--he felt sure of that. True, he was
subject to the orders of certain officials, but so were they. Young officers had
asked him to do favors on many occasions, and he did them, because it was clear
that they ought to be done, and he also had explained devious plains-craft to
them of which they had instantly availed themselves. The arrangement was natural
and not oppressive. Captain Lewis could command him to ford a rushing torrent:
could tell him to stand on his head and be d---- quick about it, and of course
he would do anything for him and Major Searles; they could ask nothing which the
thinker would not do in a lope. As for Colonel Miles, the fine-looking man who
led "ten thousand" in the great white battles, it was a distinction to do
exactly what he ordered--every one did that; then why did he not go to Major
Searles's quarters, he kept asking himself. He was not afraid of Colonel Miles
or Captain Lewis or Major Searles or any officer, but--and the thought flashed,
he was wary of the living eyes of the beloved photograph. Before these he could
not use his mind, hands, or feet; his nerves shivered like aspen leaves in a
wind, and the blood surged into his head until he could see nothing with his
eyes; cold chills played up and down his spine; his hair crawled round under his
sombrero, and he was most thoroughly miserable, but some way he no longer felt
contentment except while undergoing this misery. He lay on the blanket while his
thoughts alternately fevered and chilled his brain. So intense were his emotions
that they did more than disorder his mind: they took smart hold of his very
body, gnawing and constricting his vitals until he groaned aloud. No wild beast
which roamed the hills was less conscious, ordinarily, of its bodily functions
than Ermine. The machinery of a perfect physique had always responded to the
vital principle and unwound to the steady pull of the spring of life, yet he
found himself now stricken. It was not a thing for the surgeon, and he gradually
gave way before its steady progress. His nature was a rich soil for the seeds of
idealism which warm imagination constantly sprinkled, and the fruits became a
consuming passion. His thoughts were burning him. Getting up from his bed, he
took a kettle and small axe, saddled his pony, and took himself off toward the
river. As he rode along he heard the Englishman call out to him, but he did not
answer. The pony trotted away, leaving the camp far behind, until he suddenly
came to a little prairie surrounded by cottonwoods, in the middle of which were
numbers of small wick-e-ups made by the Indians for sweat-baths. He placed his
blankets and ponchos over one, made a fire and heated a number of rocks,
divested himself of his clothing, and taking his pail of water got inside,
crouching while he dashed handfuls of water over the hot rocks. This simple
remedy would do more than cleanse the skin and was always resorted to for common
ills by the Indians. After Ermine came out he plunged into the cold waters of
the Yellowstone and dressed himself, but he did not feel any better. He mounted
and rode off, forgetting his axe, blankets, and pail; such furnishings were
unconsidered now. In response to a tremendous desire to do something, he ran his
pony for a mile, but that did not calm the yearning. "I feel like a piece of
fly-blown meat," he said to himself. "I think I will go to Saw-Bones and let him
have a hack at me; I never was so sick before." And to the cabin of the surgeon
he betook himself. That gentleman was fussing about with affairs of his own,
when Ermine entered. "Say, doctor, give me some medicine." "What's the matter
with you?" asked the addressed, shoving his sombrero to one side and looking up
incredulously. "Oh, I'm sick." "Well, where are you sick?" Ermine brushed his
hair from off his forehead, slapped his leggings with his quirt, and answered,
"Sick all over--kind of low fever, like a man with a bullet in him." "Bilious,
probably." And the doctor felt his pulse and looked into his bright, clear eyes.
"Oh, nonsense, boy--you are not sick. I guess loafing around is bad for you. The
Colonel ought to give you a hundred miles with his compliments to some one; but
here is a pill which will cure you." Saying which, the physician brought out his
box containing wheat bread rolled into small balls, that he always administered
to cases which he did not understand or to patients whom he suspected of
shirking on "sick report." Ermine swallowed it and departed. The doctor tipped
his sombrero forward and laughed aloud in long, cadenced peals as he sorted his
vials. "Sick!" he muttered; "funny--funny--funny sick! One could not kill him
with an axe. I guess he is sick of sitting round--sick to be loping over the
wild plains. Humph--sick!" Ermine rode down the officers' row, but no one was to
be seen. He pulled his horse's head up before Major Searles's door, but
instantly slapped him with his whip and trotted on to his tent. "If that fool
Indian boy would only show himself," he thought; but the Indian was not a fool,
and did not. Again Ermine found himself lying on his back, more discontented
than ever. The day waned and the shadows on the tent walls died, but still he
lay. Ramon stuck his head in at the flaps. "Well--ah got your British man hees
pony, Ermine--trade twenty-five dollar in goods for five pony." "Oh, d---- the
Englishman," was the response to this, whereat Ramon took a good long stare at
his friend and withdrew. He failed to understand the abruptness, and went away
wondering how Ermine could know that he had gouged Mr. Harding a little on the
trade. Still this did not explain; for he had confidence in his own method of
blinding his trail. He was a business man and a moral cripple. The sun left the
world and Ermine with his gloomy thoughts. *       *       *       *       *

Late at night Captain Lewis sat at his desk writing letters, the lamp spotting
on the white disk of his hat, which shaded his face, while the pale moonlight
crept in through the open door. A sword clanked outside, and with a knock the
officer of the guard hurriedly entered. "Say, Bill, I have your scout Ermine
down by the guard-house, and he's drunk. I didn't lock him up. Wanted to see you
first. If I lock him up, I am afraid he'll pull out on you when he comes to.
What shall I do?" "The devil you say--Ermine drunk? Why, I never knew him to
drink; it was a matter of principle with him; often told me that his mentor,
whoever he was, told him not to." "Well, he's drunk now, so there you are," said
the officer. "How drunk?" "Oh, good and drunk." "Can he walk?" Lewis queried.
"No; all he can do is lay on his back and shoot pretty thick Injun at the moon."
"Does every one know of this?" "No; Corporal Riley and Private Bass of Company K
brought him up from Wilmore's whiskey-shack, and they are sitting on his chest
out back of the guard-house. Come on," spoke the responsible one. Lewis jumped
up and followed. They quickly made their way to the spot, and there Lewis beheld
Ermine lying on his back. The moonlight cut his fine face softly and made the
aureole of his light hair stand away from the ground. He moaned feebly, but his
eyes were closed. Corporal Riley and Private Bass squatted at his head and feet
with their eyes fastened on the insensible figure. Off to one side a small pile
of Ermine's lethal weapons shimmered. The post was asleep; a dog barked, and an
occasional cow-bell tinkled faintly down in the quartermaster's corral. "Gad!"
gasped Lewis, as he too stooped down. "How did this happen, Corporal?" "Well, I
suppose we might as well tell it as it is," Bass replied, indirectly conscious
of the loyalty he owed his brother sinner. "We ran the guard, sir, and went down
to Wilmore's, and when we got there, we found this feller pretty far gone with
drink. He had his guns out, and was talking Injun, and he had Wilmore hiding out
in the sage-brush. I beefed him under the ear, and we took his guns away, sir. I
didn't hurt him much; he was easy money with his load, and then we packed him up
here, and I told the officer of the guard, sir." "Well," said Lewis, finally,
"make a chair of your hands and bring him down to my quarters." The soldiers
gathered up the limp form, while Lewis took the belt and pistols. "No use of
reporting this?" "No," answered the officer of the guard. The men laid him out
on the Captain's bed after partially disrobing him, and started to withdraw. "Go
to your quarters, men, and keep your mouths shut; you will understand it is best
for you." The two saluted and passed out, leaving the Captain pacing the floor,
and groping wildly for an explanation. "Why, I have offered that boy a drink out
of my own flask on campaign, when we were cold enough and tired enough to make
my old Aunt Jane weaken on her blue ribbon; but he never did. That was good of
the men to bring him in, and smart of Welbote not to chuck him in the guard-
house. Sailor's sins! he'd never stand that; it would kill his pride, and he has
pride, this long-haired wild boy. He may tell me in the morning, but I am not so
sure of that. Laying down on his luck is not the way he plays it. I don't doubt
it was an accident, and maybe it will teach him a d---- good lesson; he'll have
a head like a hornets' nest to-morrow morning." The Captain, after a struggle
with the strange incident, sought his couch, and when he arose next morning
betook himself to Ermine's room. He found him asleep amid the tangle of his
wonderful hair, and he smiled as he pictured the scout's surprise when he awoke;
in fact, he pulled himself together for a little amusement. A few remarks to
re√´nforce the headache would do more good than a long brief without a big
'exhibit A,' such as would accompany the awakening. The steady gaze of the
Captain awoke the scout, and he opened his eyes, which wandered about the room,
but displayed no interest; they set themselves on the Captain's form, but
refused to believe these dreams, and closed again. The Captain grinned and
addressed the empty room:--

"How would you like to be a millionnaire and have that headache? Oh,
gee--'twould bust a mule's skull." The eyes opened again and took more account
of things; they began to credit their surroundings. When the scene had assembled
itself, Ermine sat up on the bed, saying, "Where am I? what hit me?" and then he
lay down again. His dream had come true; he was sick. "You are in my bed, so
stay there, and you will come out all right. You have been making the Big Red
Medicine; the devil is pulling your hair, and every time he yanks, he will say,
'John Ermine, don't do that again.' Keep quiet, and you will get well." After
saying which Lewis left the room. All day long the young man lay on the bed; he
was burning at the stake; he was being torn apart by wild horses; the regimental
band played its bangiest music in his head; the big brass drum would nearly blow
it apart; and his poor stomach kept trying to crawl out of his body in its
desperate strife to escape Wilmore's decoction of high-wine. This lasted all
day, but by evening the volcano had blown itself out, when a natural sleep
overcame him. Captain Lewis had the knowledge of certain magic, well enough
known in the army, to alleviate Ermine's condition somewhat, but he chose not to
use it; he wanted 'exhibit A' to wind up in a storm of fireworks. As Ermine
started out the next morning Lewis called, "Hey, boy, how did you come to do
it?" Ermine turned a half-defiant and half-questioning front to Lewis and tossed
his matted hair. "I don't know, Captain; it all seems as though I must have
fallen off the earth; but I'm back now and think I can stay here." "Well, no one
knows about it except myself, so don't say a word to any one, and don't do it
again--sabe?" "You bet I won't. If the soldiers call that drowning their
sorrows, I would rather get along with mine." CHAPTER XV

BRINGING IN THE WOLF

"Going to follow the dogs to-day, Lewis?" said Lieutenant Shockley, poking his
head in the half-open door. "Yes, reckon I'll give this chair a vacation; wait a
minute," and he mauled the contents of his ditty-box after the manner of men and
bears when in search of trifles. A vigorous stirring is bound to upheave what is
searched for, so in due course the Captain dug up a snaffle-bit. "I find my
horse goes against this better than the government thing--when the idea is to
get there and d---- formations." "Well, shake yourself, Lewis; the people are
pulling out." "What, ahead of the scouts?" laughed the chief of them. "Yes; and
you know the line never retires on the scouts; so smoke up." The orderly having
changed the bits, the two mounted and walked away. "'Spose this is for the
Englishman. Great people these Englishmen--go trotting all over the earth to
chase something; anything will do from rabbits to tigers, and niggers
preferred," said Lewis. "Must be a great deprivation to most Englishmen to have
to live in England where there is nothing to chase. I suppose they all have this
desire to kill something; a great hardship it must be," suggested Shockley. "Oh,
I think they manage," continued Lewis; "from what I understand the rich and the
great go batting about the globe after heads; the so-so fellows go into the army
and navy to take their chance of a killing, and the lower orders have to find
contentment in staying at home, where there is no amusement but pounding each
other." "There goes your friend Ermine on that war-pony of his; well, he can
show his tail to any horse in cantonments. By the way, some one was telling me
that he carries a medicine-bag with him; isn't he a Christian?" "Oh, I don't
know. He reminds me of old Major Doyle of ours, who was promoted out of us
during the war, but who rejoined in Kansas and was retired. You don't remember
him? He was an Irishman and a Catholic; he had been in the old army since the
memory of man runneth not to the contrary, and ploughed his way up and down all
over the continent. And there was Major Dunham--you know him. He and Doyle had
been comrades since youth; they had fought and marched together, spilled many a
noggin in each other's honor, and who drew the other's monthly pay depended on
the paste-boards. Old Doyle came into post, one day, and had a lot of drinks
with the fellows as he picked up the social threads. Finally he asked: 'Un'
phware is me ole friend, Dunham? Why doesn't he come down and greet me with a
glass?' "Some one explained that old Dunham had since married, had joined the
church, and didn't greet any one over glasses any more. "'Un' phwat church did
he join?' "Some one answered, the Universalist Church. "'Ah, I see,' said Doyle,
tossing off his drink, 'he's huntin' an aisy ford.' So I guess that's what
Ermine is doing." They soon joined the group of mounted officers and ladies,
orderlies, and nondescripts of the camp, all alive with anticipations, and their
horses stepping high. "Good morning, Mr. Harding; how do you find yourself?"
called out Captain Lewis. "Fine--fine, thank you." "How are you mounted?"
Harding patted his horse's neck, saying: "Quite well--a good beast; seems to
manage my weight, but I find this saddle odd. Bless me, I know there is no habit
in the world so strong as the saddle. I have the flat saddle habit." "What we
call a rim-fire saddle," laughed Searles, who joined the conversation. "Ah--a
rim-fire, do you call them? Well, do you know, Major, I should say this saddle
was better adapted to carrying a sack of corn than a man," rejoined Harding.
"Oh, you'll get along; there isn't a fence nearer than St. Paul except the
quartermaster's corral." "I say, Searles," spoke Lewis, "there's the Colonel out
in front--happy as a boy out of school; glad there's something to keep him
quiet; we must do this for him every day, or he'll have us out pounding sage-
brush." "And there's the quartermaster with a new popper on his whip," sang some
voice. "There is no champagne like the air of the high plains before the sun
burns the bubble out of it," proclaimed Shockley, who was young and without any
of the saddle or collar marks of life; "and to see these beautiful women riding
along--say, Harding, if I get off this horse I'll set this prairie on fire," and
he burst into an old song:--

"Now, ladies, good-by to each kind, gentle soul,       Though me coat it is
ragged, me heart it is whole;       There's one sitting yonder I think wants a
beau,       Let her come to the arms of young Billy Barlow." And Shockley urged
his horse to the side of Miss Katherine Searles. Observing the manoeuvre,
Captain Lewis poked her father in the ribs. "I don't think your daughter wants a
beau very much, Major; the youngsters are four files deep around her now." "'Tis
youth, Bill Lewis; we've all had it once, and from what I observe, they handle
it pretty much as we used to." "The very same. I don't see how men write novels
or plays about that old story; all they can do is to invent new fortifications
for Mr. Hero to carry before she names the day." Lieutenant Shockley found
himself unable to get nearer than two horses to Miss Searles, so he bawled: "And
I thought you fellows were hunting wolves. I say, Miss Searles, if you ride one
way and the wolf runs the other, it is easy to see which will have the larger
field. My money is on you--two to one. Who will take the wolf?" [Illustration:
SHOCKLEY.] "Oh, Mr. Shockley, between you and this Western sun, I shall soon
need a new powder puff." "Shall I challenge him?" called Bowles to the young
woman. "Please not, Mr. Bowles; I do not want to lose him." And every one
greeted Shockley derisively. "Guide right!" shouted the last, putting his horse
into a lope. Miss Searles playfully slashed about with her riding-whip, saying,
"Deploy, gentlemen," and followed him. The others broke apart; they had been
beaten by the strategy of the loud mouth. Lieutenant Butler, however, permitted
himself the pleasure of accompanying Miss Searles; his determination could not
be shaken by these diversions; he pressed resolutely on. "I think Butler has
been hit over the heart," said one of the dispersed cavaliers. "You bet, and it
is a disabling wound too. I wonder if Miss Searles intends to cure him. When I
see her handle her eyes, methinks, compadre, she's a cruel little puss. I
wouldn't care to be her mouse." "But, fellows, she's pretty, a d---- pretty
girl, hey!" ventured a serious youngster. "You can bet any chap here would hang
out the white flag and come a-running, if she hailed him." And so, one with
another, they kept the sacred fire alight. As for that matter, the aforesaid
Miss Puss knew how her men valued the difficulties of approach, which was why
she scattered them. She proposed to take them in detail. Men do not weaken
readily before each other, but alone they are helpless creatures, when the woman
understands herself. She can then sew them up, tag them, and put them away on
various shelves, and rely on them to stay there; but it requires management, of
course. "I say, Miss Searles, those fellows will set spring guns and bear traps
for me to-night; they will never forgive me." "Oh, well, Mr. Shockley, to be
serious, I don't care. Do you suppose a wolf will be found? I am so bored."
Which remark caused the eminent Lieutenant to open his mouth very wide in
imitation of a laugh, divested of all mirth. "Miss Katherine Searles," he said,
in mock majesty, "I shall do myself the honor to crawl into the first badger-
hole we come to and stay there until you dig me out." "Don't be absurd; you know
I always bury my dead. Mr. Butler, do you expect we shall find a wolf? Ah, there
is that King Charles cavalier, Mr. Ermine--for all the world as though he had
stepped from an old frame. I do think he is lovely." "Oh, bother that yellow
Indian; he is such a nuisance," jerked Butler. "Why do you say that? I find him
perfectly new; he never bores me, and he stood between me and that enraged
savage." "A regular play. I do not doubt he arranged it beforehand. However, it
was well thought out--downright dramatic, except that the Indian ought to have
killed him." "Oh, would you have arranged it that way if you had been
playwright?" "Yes," replied the bilious lover. Shaking her bridle rein, she
cried, "Come, Mr. Shockley, let us ride to Ermine; at least you will admire
him." Shockley enjoyed the death stroke which she had administered to Butler,
but saying to himself as he thought of Ermine, "D---- the curly boy," and
followed his charming and difficult quarry. He alone had ridden true. The
independent and close-lipped scout was riding outside the group. He never grew
accustomed to the heavy columns, and did not talk on the march--a common habit
of desert wanderers. But his eye covered everything. Not a buckle or a horse-
hair or the turn of a leg escaped him, and you may be sure Miss Katherine
Searles was detailed in his picture. He had beheld her surrounded by the young
officers until he began to hate the whole United States army. Then he saw her
dismiss the escort saving only two, and presently she reduced her force to one.
As she came toward him, his blood took a pop into his head, which helped
mightily to illumine his natural richness of color. She was really coming to
him. He wished it, he wanted it, as badly as a man dying of thirst wants water,
and yet a whole volley of bullets would not disturb him as her coming did. "Good
morning, Mr. Ermine; you, too, are out after wolves, I see," sang Katherine,
cheerily. "No, ma'am, I don't care anything about wolves; and why should I care
for them?" "What are you out for then, pray?" "Oh, I don't know; thought I would
like to see you after wolves. I guess that's why I am out," came the simple
answer. "Well, to judge by the past few miles I don't think you will see me
after them to-day." "I think so myself, Miss Searles. These people ought to go
back in the breaks of the land to find wolves; they don't give a wolf credit for
having eyes." "Why don't you tell them so, Mr. Ermine?" pleaded the young woman.
"The officers think they know where to find them; they would not thank me, and
there might not be anywhere I would go to find them. It does not matter whether
we get one or none, anyhow," came Ermine's sageness. "Indeed, it does matter. I
must have a wolf." "Want him alive or dead?" was the low question. "What! am I
to have one?" "You are," replied the scout, simply. "When?" "Well, Miss Searles,
I can't order one from the quartermaster exactly, but if you are in a great
hurry, I might go now." "Mr. Ermine, you will surely kill me with your
generosity. You have offered me your scalp, your body, and now a wolf. Oh, by
the way, what did that awful Indian say to you? I suppose you have seen him
since." "Didn't say anything." "Well, I hope he has forgiven you; but as I
understand them, that is not the usual way among Indians." "No, Miss Searles, he
won't forgive me. I'm a-keeping him to remember you by." "How foolish; I might
give you something for a keepsake which would leave better memories, do you not
think so?" "You might, if you wish to." The girl was visibly agitated at this,
coming as it did from her crude admirer. She fumbled about her dress, her hair,
and finally drew off her glove and gave it to the scout, with a smile so sweet
and a glance of the eye which penetrated Ermine like a charge of buckshot. He
took the glove and put it inside of the breast of his shirt, and said, "I'll get
the wolf." Shockley was so impressed with the conversation that he was surprised
into silence, and to accomplish that phenomenon took a most powerful jolt, as
every one in the regiment knew. He could talk the bottom out of a nose-bag, or
put a clock to sleep. Ordinary verbal jollity did not seem at all adequate, so
he carolled a passing line:--

"One little, two little, three little Injuns,       Four little, five little,
six little Injuns,       Seven little, eight little, nine little Injuns,
Ten little Injun boys." This came as an expiring burst which unsettled his horse
though it relieved him. Shockley needed this much yeast before he could rise
again. "Oh, Mr. Shockley, you must know Mr. Ermine." "I have the pleasure, Miss
Searles; haven't I, Ermine?" The scout nodded assent. "We were side by side when
we rushed the point of that hill in the Sitting Bull fight last fall; remember
that, Ermine?" "Yes, sir," said the scout; but the remembrance evidently did not
cause Ermine's E string to vibrate. Fighting was easier, freer; but altogether
it was like washing the dishes at home compared with the dangers which now beset
him. Suddenly every one was whipping and spurring forward; the pack of
greyhounds were streaking it for the hills. "Come on," yelled Shockley, "here's
a run." And that mercurial young man's scales tipped right readily from his
heart to his spurs. "It's only a coyote, Miss Searles," said Ermine; but the
young woman spatted her horse with her whip and rode bravely after the flying
Shockley. Ermine's fast pony kept steadily along with her under a pull; the
plainsman's long, easy sway in the saddle was unconscious, and he never took his
eyes from the girl, now quite another person under the excitement. Every one in
the hunting-party was pumping away to the last ounce. A pack of greyhounds make
a coyote save all the time he can; they stimulate his interest in life, and
those who have seen a good healthy specimen burn up the ground fully realize the
value of passing moments. "Oh, dear; my hat is falling off!" shrieked the girl.
"Shall I save it, Miss Searles?" "Yes! yes! Catch it!" she screamed. Ermine
brought his flying pony nearer hers on the off side and reached his hand toward
the flapping hat, struggling at a frail anchorage of one hat-pin, but his arm
grew nerveless at the near approach to divinity. "Save it! save it!" she called.
"Shall I?" and he pulled himself together. Dropping his bridle-rein over the
pommel of his saddle, standing in his stirrups as steadily as a man in church,
he undid the hat with both hands. When he had released it and handed it to its
owner, she heard him mutter hoarsely, "My God!" "Oh, Mr. Ermine, I hope the pin
did not prick you." "No, it wasn't the pin." "Ah," she ejaculated barely loud
enough for him to hear amid the rushing hoof-beats. The poor man was in earnest,
and the idea drove the horses, the hounds, and the coyote out of her mind, and
she ran her mount harder than ever. She detested earnest men, having so far in
her career with the exception of Mr. Butler found them great bores; but drive as
she would, the scout pattered at her side, and she dared not look at him. These
two were by no means near the head of the drive, as the girl's horse was a
stager, which had been selected because he was highly educated concerning
badger-holes and rocky hillsides. Orderlies clattered behind them, and Private
Patrick O'Dowd and Private Thompson drew long winks at each other. "Oi do be
thinkin' the long bie's harse cud roon fasther eff the divil was afther him.
Faith, who'd roon away from a fairy?" "The horse is running as fast as is
wanted," said Thompson, sticking his hooks into the Indian pony which he rode.
"Did yez obsarve the bie ramove the hat from the lady, and his pony shootin'
gravel into our eyes fit to smother?" shouted O'Dowd, using the flat of his hand
as a sounding-board to Thompson. "You bet, Pat; and keeping the gait he could
take a shoe off her horse, if she wanted it done." "They say seein's believin',
but Oi'll not be afther tellin' the story in quarters. Oi'm eaight year in the
ahrmy, and Oi can lie whin it's convanient." The dogs overhauled the unfortunate
little wolf despite its gallant efforts, and it came out of the snarling mass,
as some wag had expressed it, "like a hog going to war--in small pieces." The
field closed up and dismounted, soldier fashion, at the halt. "What's the matter
with the pony to-day, Ermine? Expected you'd be ahead of the wolf at least,"
sang out Lewis. "I stopped to pick up a hat," he explained; but Captain Lewis
fixed his calculating eye on his man and bit his mustache. Events had begun to
arrange themselves; that drunken night and Ermine's apathy toward the
Englishman's hunting-party--and he had stopped to pick up her hat--oho! Without
a word the scout regained his seat and loped away toward the post, and Lewis
watched him for some time, in a brown study; but a man of his years often fails
to give the ardor of youth its proper value, so his mind soon followed more
natural thoughts. "Your horse is not a very rapid animal, I observe, Miss
Searles," spoke Butler. "Did you observe that? I did not notice that you were
watching me, Mr. Butler." "Oh, I must explain that in an affair of this kind I
am expected to sustain the reputation of the cavalry. I forced myself to the
front." "Quite right. I kept the only man in the rear, who was capable of
spoiling your reputation; you are under obligations to me." "That wild man, you
mean. He certainly has a wonderful pony, but you need not trouble about him if
it is to please me only." "I find this sun becoming too insistent; I think I
will go back," said Katherine Searles. Many of the women also turned their
horses homeward, leaving only the more pronounced types of sportsmen to search
for another wolf. "Having sustained the cavalry, I'll accompany you, Katherine."
"Miss Searles, please!" she said, turning to him, and the little gem of a nose
asserted itself. "Oh, dear me! What have I done? You permitted me to call you
Katherine only last night." "Yes, but I do not propose to divide my friendship
with a nasty little gray wolf which has been eaten up alive." The officer ran
his gauntlet over his eyes. "I am such a booby. I see my mistake, Miss Searles,
but the idea you advance seems so ridiculous--to compare yourself with a wolf."
"Oh, I say, Miss Searles," said Shockley, riding up, "may I offer you one of my
gauntlets? The sun, I fear, will blister your bare hand." "No, indeed." And
Butler tore off a glove, forcing it into her hand. She could not deny him, and
pulled it on. "Thank you; I lost one of mine this morning." Then she turned her
eyes on Mr. Shockley with a hard little expression, which sealed him up. He was
prompt to feel that the challenge meant war, and war with this girl was the far-
away swing of that gallant strategic pendulum. "Yes," Shockley added, "one is
apt to drop things without noting them, in a fast rush. I dropped something
myself this morning." "Pray what was it, Mr. Shockley?" "It was an idea," he
replied with a shrug of the shoulders. "An idea?" laughed she, appreciating
Shockley's discretion. "I hope you have more of them than I have gloves." "I
have only one," he sighed. "Are all soldiers as stupid as you are, my dear sir?"
"All under thirty, I am sorry to say," and this from Shockley too. Miss Searles
applied the whip; but go as she would, the two officers did not lose again the
idea, but kept their places beside her. "You are not very steady under fire,"
laughed Shockley. "You are such an absurd person." "I may be a blessing in
disguise." "You may be; I am unable to identify you." "The chaperon is waving
her whip at us, Miss Searles," cautioned Butler. "Private O'Dowd is my chaperon,
and he can stand the pace," she replied. The young woman drove on, leaving a
pall of dust behind, until the little party made the cantonment and drew rein in
front of the Searleses' quarters. Giving her hand to the orderly, she dismissed
her escort and disappeared. "Well, Katherine," said Mrs. Searles, "did you enjoy
your ride?" "Yes, mother, but my horse is such an old poke I was nowhere in the
race." "The Major says he is a safe horse; one which can be relied on, and that
is more important than speed. I do not want your neck broken, my dear." "Neither
do I want my neck broken, but I should like to be somewhere in sight during a
run. The young officers desert me once a wolf is sighted; they forget their
manners at the first flash of a greyhound." "I know, daughter, but what can you
expect? They go out for that purpose." "Mr. Ermine doesn't, or at least he is
polite enough to say that he goes out to see me run, and not the wolf. If he is
not sophisticated, he seems to have the primitive instincts of a gentleman."
"Mr. Ermine, forsooth!" And Madam Searles betrayed some asperity. "Is he
presumptuous enough to present you with compliments? You had better maintain
your distance." "He is a perfectly delightful man, mother; so thoughtful and so
handsome." "Tut tut, Katherine; he is only an ordinary scout--a wild man." "I
don't care; I like him." "Katherine, what are you thinking of?" "Oh, I don't
know, mother; I am thinking what an absurd lot men are. They insist on talking
nonsense at me. They do not seem to preserve their reserve; they are not a bit
like the men back in the States." "Well, my daughter, you must be careful not to
provoke familiarity. Young women are rather scarce out here, and you are not
without your charms. I believe you use your eyes more than you should. Have a
care; do not forget that quiet modesty is the most becoming thing in the world
for a woman." "I am sure I do nothing; in fact, I have to be constantly menacing
these military youths to keep them from coming too near, especially Mr. Shockley
and Mr. Butler. I am in distress every minute for fear Mr. Butler will say more
than I am ready to hear." Mrs. Searles was by no means averse to Butler's
attentions to her daughter. "A very fine young man," was her comment when she
thought of him. Both women knew that the Lieutenant was ready to draw his sabre
in Katherine's behalf. Katherine had met Butler while visiting St. Louis the
year before, had come to know him well, and didn't pretend to dislike him. His
father and mother were dead, but his people were of consequence. Mrs. Searles
determined to ask the Major to make some inquiries about her daughter's suitor,
and meanwhile dismissed Katherine with the caution not to tempt this midday sun
overmuch; "It will soon turn your peach-blow into russet apples," she told her,
"and men, you know, like the peach-blow. Without it you might be less troubled
by the young officers." *       *       *       *       *

The sun was about to depart. The families of the officers were sitting under
their _ramadas_ enjoying the cool. Butler and Shockley with two or three other
men were seated with the Searleses when their attention was attracted by a
commotion down by the quarters. "What's the circus?" "Don't make out; seems to
be coming this way. It is--why, it is the scout Ermine!" The group sat
expectantly and witnessed the approach of John Ermine on his horse. At some
distance to one side rode Wolf-Voice, and gradually through the dusk they made
out some small animal between them--a dog-like thing. The riders drew up before
the Searleses' hut, and every one rose. The object was a scared and demoralized
wolf with his tail between his legs. His neck was encircled by two rawhide
lariats which ran to the pommels of the riders. Touching his hat, Ermine said,
"Miss Searles, I have brought you the wolf." "Goodness gracious, Mr. Ermine! I
only said that in fun. What can I possibly do with a wolf?" "I don't know. You
said you wanted one, so here he is." "Yaes," said Wolf-Voice, with an oath, "she
was bite my harm hoff; you no want heem; I skin her alive." He had previously
warned Ermine that no one but a d---- fool would want a live wolf. "Well,
daughter, what are you going to do with it? Start a Zoo? I don't know where we
can put him," spoke Major Searles, in perplexity. "He will have to roost high if
the dogs find out about this visitation," observed Shockley. "How did you get
him, Ermine?" "Dug him out of his den, and before we got him roped he pinched
Wolf-Voice, and I had a hard time to keep him from killing the beast." "Yaes; no
want him, an' we dig a hole mile deep mabeso--dig ever since sun she so high,
ten-as tol-a-pas." And in his disgust Wolf-Voice was about to slacken his rope.
"Hold up there; don't turn that animal loose near here! Take him down to the
corral and lock him up. We'll see to-morrow what can be done with him," spoke
Searles. Ermine and Wolf-Voice turned and drifted out into the gathering
darkness with their forlorn tow, while a few soldiers with clubs fought the dogs
off as they gradually began to gather around their natural enemy. "Why, I only
asked for a wolf in the most casual way--in a joking way; you heard me, Mr.
Shockley." "Yes, I did hear you, but I also heard him say you should have one,
and I thought at the time he looked serious about it." "I was so astonished that
I did not properly thank him," she added; "and the Indian was in a lovely humor
over the whole episode; his disgust was most apparent. I must be more careful
what I say to Mr. Ermine." "I have it," cried the Major; "we'll make up a purse,
buy the wolf, and run him so soon as he gets over the effects of his capture."
"No, no, papa, you must not offend Ermine with money. He would be awfully
offended; that would be the very last thing to do to him." CHAPTER XVI

A HUNT

[Illustration]

A troop of cavalry trotted along through the early morning dust, and Lieutenant
Butler drew out at the Searleses' quarters, tying his horse for a moment in
front, while he went inside. It was early for casual people. He did not stay
long, but the sergeant in the rear thought he saw a girl come to the door and
kiss him good-by. As the officer dashed to the head of the troop, the old
sergeant dipped a smiling countenance deep into a plug of tobacco. "Hello! there
goes Butler with his troop," said Mr. Harding to Captain Lewis, as they basked
in the morning sun before that officer's quarters. "Yes, he goes to escort some
wagons; but the fact is, internecine war has broken out in the post, and he goes
for the good of the service. It's all about a damn little yellow dog." "A dog
make a war! How, pray?" "Oh gee! yes! Dogs and rum and women make all the
trouble there is in the army, and particularly dogs. That sounds odd, doesn't
it? Nevertheless, it's a hard, dry fact. Soldiers take to dogs, and it's always
'kick my dog kick me' with these bucks. That troop has a miserable runt of a
_fice_, and he's smart the same as such pups often are. The cavalrymen have
taught him to nip at infantrymen, which they think is great fun. Some of the
infantrymen got tired of sewing up three-cornered tears in their galligaskins
and allowed they would assassinate said _fice_. Here is where these baby
cavalrymen lose their temper and threaten to fire on the company-quarters of any
outfit which bags Fido--and that's war. It has been fixed up. Some officer has
arranged an armistice, and meanwhile the troop gets a few miles in the sage-
brush, which, it is hoped, will be credited to the pup, whereat he won't be so
popular." "Ah, a very sad case for the doggie," added Harding; "he was taught to
take wrong views of the service." "Let us go down and take a look at Ermine's
wolf," said Lewis, and the two proceeded to the quartermaster's corral, where
they found a group standing about the wolf. It was held by a stout chain and lay
flat on the ground, displaying an entire apathy concerning the surroundings,
except that it looked "Injuny," as a passing mule-skinner observed. "When I see
one of those boys, it makes my back come up like a cat's," said Lewis. "A bunch
of them nearly pulled me down two years ago on the Canadian. I fired all my
ammunition at them and got into camp just about the right time; a half a mile
more and I would have got my 'final statement.'" "Yes, I have hunted them in
Poland, on moonlight nights. A wolf in the deep forests on a moonlight night
harmonizes better than one tied by a chain, with twenty men staring at him in
broad daylight." An irrepressible private shoved his nose into the circle,
looked at the captive, and departed saying:--

"He enlisted in the army,        The bullets took their toll,       The wolves
got his body,        And the divil got his soul. Om-a yah-ha-ha." Poor wolf! He
possessed too many attributes of man to ingratiate himself. He did not admit
their superiority, and lay stoically under the heel of the conqueror; all thumbs
were down for him. He was apostrophized by a soldier: "Ah, me innocent-lukin'
child of the divil--wait till ye git thim hoop-shnake dawgs afther yez." Major
Searles rode in through the gate and sang out: "The Colonel has a few papers to
sign, after which he says we will chase the wolf; so you can get ready,
gentlemen, those who care to run." And then to Ermine, who stood near: "Miss
Searles thinks that will be a proper disposition of your valuable present. Can
you manage to turn him loose?" "Why, yes, I suppose we can. Putting the ropes on
him is easier than taking them off. I won't take him out until you are all
ready; every dog in the camp will fly at him. Can I have four or five soldiers
to drive them off? Wolf-Voice and myself will be on horseback, and can't protect
him." "Certainly, certainly!" And under the Major's directions various soldiers
armed themselves with whips, and undertook to make a rear-guard fight with the
garrison pups. Horses were saddled, and went clattering to all points of the
post. The certainty of a run drew every one out. Shockley aided Miss Searles to
mount, saying, "I am on duty to-day; my thoughts will fly where my pony should.
You cannot doubt where he would go." "Poor man, do not look so woebegone; it
does not become you. I like you better when you sing than when you cry." "If you
didn't make me cry, I should sing all the time." "Oh, that would be bad for your
voice, my dear Mr. Shockley, as we say on a letter head." And she mocked him
beyond her rapier point, as she rode along, followed by the rapidly receding
words:--

"Don't forget me, Molly darling;        Put your little hand in mine. Tell me
truly that you love me,        And--"

The rest died behind her. "He is such a nice fellow," she mused, "but there's
more music in his soul than in his throat. I shall miss him to-day, but not so
much as I shall Mr. Butler; and there is my knight of the yellow hair. Oh! I
must be careful of him. He is such a direct person, there is no parrying his
assault. His presence has a strange effect on me; I do not understand it; he is
queer. What a pity he is not an officer, with short hair; but pshaw! I might not
like him then; how absurd, I do not like him now." And thus the girlish emotions
swayed her pretty head, not stopping to clarify, man fashion. They flitted about
on every little wind, and alighted nowhere for more than a few seconds. Other
women joined her, and a few men, all making for the quartermaster's. "Your
mother finds herself past riding, Miss Katherine," spoke one merry matron, to
whom age had been generous, and who was past it herself, did she but know it.
"Yes, mother takes that view. I am afraid I cannot sustain the reputation of the
Searles outfit, as the phrase goes here. My horse is a Dobbin--papa is so
absurdly careful. There is no fun in being careful." "Oh, the Major is right. He
knows the value of that little nose of yours, and doesn't want it ploughed in
the dirt. Noses which point upward, just ever so little, lack the severity of
those that point down, in women; that is what the men tell me, Katherine." The
girl glanced at her companion, and doubted not that the men had said that to
her. "I don't care to go through life thinking of my nose," she added. "No,
indeed; never think of your nose; think of what men think of it." "I can go home
and do that, Mrs. Gooding; out here my horse seems more to the point than my
nose." At this juncture some men opened the corral gate, and the women passed
in. Seeing the wolf flattened out like an unoratorical man at a banquet, who
knows he is next on the toast-list, Miss Searles exclaimed, "Poor creature! it
seems such a shame." And the others added, "Now that I see him I feel like a
butcher." "Let him go, Major; we will not have his murder on our conscience,"
continued a third. "I should as soon think of killing a canary in a cage." And
thus did the gentler sex fail at this stage; but when the Colonel rode out of
the enclosure, they all followed. The wolf rose to its feet with a snap as the
half-breed and Ermine approached, curling their lariats. A few deft turns, and
the ropes drew around the captive's throat. A man undid the chain, the horse
started, and the wild beast drew after, a whizzing blur of gray hair. There was
some difficulty in passing the gate, but that was managed. The remembrance of
yesterday's experience in the rawhide coils came back to the wolf. It slunk
along, tail down, and with head turning in scared anxious glances. Behind
followed the rear-guard, waving their whips at various feeble-minded ki-yis
which were emboldened by their own yelling. "Colonel, give me a good start; this
is a female wolf. I will raise my hat and drop it on the ground when it is time
to let the dogs go! We may have trouble clearing away these ropes," talked
Ermine, loudly. "Sacre--mi-ka-tic-eh muck-a-muck--dees dam wolf he have already
bite de hole in my rope ver near," and Wolf-Voice gave a severe jerk. To be
sure, the animal was already playing havoc with his lariat by savage side-snaps
which bade fair shortly to shred it. "Watch my hat, Colonel; she may get away
from us before we are ready." Well outside of the post the Colonel halted his
field and waited; all eyes bent on the two wild men, with their dangerous bait,
going up the road. The nimble ponies darted about in response to the riders'
swayings, while at intervals the wolf gave an imitation of a pin-wheel. When
well out, Wolf-Voice yelled, "Ah, dare go my rope!" The wolf had cut it, and
turning, fixed its eyes on Ermine, who stopped and shook his lariat carefully,
rolling it in friendly circles toward the wolf. Wolf-Voice drew his gun, and for
an appreciable time the situation had limitless possibilities. By the exercise
of an intelligence not at all rare in wild creatures, the wolf lay down and
clawed at the rope. In an instant it was free and galloping off, turning its
head to study the strategy of the field. "Wait for the people; she's going for
the timber, and will get away," shouted Ermine, casting his big sombrero into
the air. The dogs held in leash never lost sight of the gray fellow, and when
let go were soon whippeting along. The horses sank on their quarters and heaved
themselves forward until the dusty plain groaned under their feet. "Ki-yi-yi-
yi," called the soldiers, imitating the Indians who had so often swept in front
of their guns. The wolf fled, a gray shadow borne on the wind, making for the
timber in the river-bottom. It had a long start and a fair hope. If it had
understood how vain the noses of greyhounds are, it might have cut its angle to
cover a little; for once out of sight it might soon take itself safely off; but
no wild animal can afford to angle much before the spider dogs. The field was
bunched at the start and kicked up a vast choking dust, causing many slow riders
to deploy out on the sides, where they could at least see the chase and the
going in front of them. Wolf-Voice and Ermine had gone to opposite sides and
were lost in the rush. Ermine's interest in the wolf departed with it. He now
swung his active pony through the dirt clouds, seeking the girl, and at last
found her, well in the rear as usual, and unescorted, after the usual luck she
encountered when she played her charms against a wolf. She was trying to escape
from the pall by edging off toward the river-bank. Well behind strode the swift
war-pony, and Ermine devoured her with his eyes. The impulse to seize and bear
her away to the inaccessible fastnesses of which he knew was overcome by a fear
of her--a fear so great that his blood turned to water when his passion was
greatest. Time did not improve Ermine's logistics concerning this girl; he
wanted her, and he did not know in the least how to get her. The tigers of his
imagination bit and clawed each other in ferocious combat when he looked at her
back as she rode or at her pensive photograph in the quiet of his tent. When,
however, she turned the battery of her eyes on him, the fever left him in a
dull, chilly lethargy--a realization of the hopelessness of his yearning; and
plot and plan and assuage his fears as he might, he was always left in a
mustache-biting perplexity. He could not at will make the easy reconnaissance of
her fortresses which the young officers did, and this thought maddened him. It
poisoned his mind and left his soul like a dead fish cast up on a river-bank.
Ermine had known the easy familiarity of the Indian squaws, but none of them had
ever stirred him. The vast silence of his mountain life had rarely been broken
by the presence of men, and never by women. The prophet had utterly neglected
the boy's emotions in the interest of his intellect. The intense poverty of his
experience left him without any understanding of the most ordinary conventions
or casual affairs of white men's lives. All he knew was gathered from his
observation of the rude relations of frontier soldiers on campaign. The visions
of angels never exalted a fasting medi√¶val monk in his cell as did the advent of
this white woman to Ermine, and they were quite as nebulous. The powerful appeal
which Katherine Searles made to his imagination was beyond the power of his
analysis; the word Love was unknown to his vocabulary. He wanted her body, he
wanted her mind, and he wanted her soul merged with his, but as he looked at her
now, his mouth grew dry, like a man in mortal fear or mortal agony. And thinking
thus, he saw her horse stop dead--sink--and go heels up and over in a complete
somersault. The girl fluttered through the air and struck, raising a dust which
almost concealed her. A savage slap of his quirt made his pony tear the ground
in his frantic rush to her aid. No one noticed the accident, and the chase swept
around the bluffs and left him kneeling beside her. She showed no sign of life;
the peach-blow left her cheeks an ivory white, set with pearls when the high
lights showed, but there was no blood or wound which he could see. Her mount
struggled to extract his poor broken foreleg from a gopher-hole, where it was
sunk to the elbow. He raised his head, with its eyes rolling, and groaned in
agony. If this had been a man, or even any other woman, Ermine would have known
what to do. In his life a wounded or broken man had been a frequent experience.
As he took her wrist to feel her pulse, his own hands trembled so that he gave
over; he could feel nothing but the mad torrent of his own blood. Turning his
face in the direction where the hunt had gone, he yelled, "Help! help!" but the
sound never reached the thudding hunt. Putting his arm under her shoulder, he
raised her up, and supporting her, he looked hopelessly around until his eye
fell on the Yellowstone only a short distance away. Water had always been what
the wounded wanted. He slowly gathered her in his arms, gained his feet, and
made his way toward the river. A gopher-hole had planned what Ermine never
could; it had brought her body to him, but it might be a useless gift unless the
water gave him back her life. He bore the limp form to the sands beside the
flowing river and laid it down while he ran to fill his hat with water. He made
fast work of his restoration, rubbing her wrists and sprinkling her forehead
with water; but it was long before a reward came in the way of a breath and a
sigh. Again he raised her in a sitting position against his knee. [Illustration:
"HE BORE THE LIMP FORM TO THE SANDS."] "Breathe, Katherine--try again--now
breathe." And he pressed her chest with his hand, aiding nature as best he knew,
until she sighed again and again. The girl was half damp in death, while like a
burning mine the pent-up fire-damp exploded and reverberated through the veins
of the young man. Oh, if he could but impart his vitality to her. Possibly he
did, for presently her weakness permitted her to note that the sky was blue,
that the tree-tops waved in familiar forms, that the air flooded her lungs, and
that a cooling rain was falling. Again she drifted somewhere away from the earth
in pleasant passage through kaleidoscopic dreams of all a girl's
subconsciousness ever offers. Her eyes spread, but soon closed in complete rest
against the easy cradle. She sensed kindly caresses and warm kisses which
delighted her. The long yellow hair hung about her face and kept it shadowed
from the hot sun. "Oh my! Oh my! Where am I? Is that you--How do I--" but the
effort exhausted her. "God--God--Sak-a-war-te come quick! It will be too late."
He put more water on her face. *       *       *       *       *

The hunt missed the wolf in the cover of the river-bottom. It doubled on the
dogs, and out of sight was out of mind with the fast-running hounds. "She gave
us a run, anyhow," sang out Major Searles to Wolf-Voice. "Yaes, d---- him; she
give me a bite and two run. What good was come of eet, hey--why ain't you keel
him first plass, by Gar?" "Oh! you are a poor sport, Wolf-Voice." "Am poor
sport, hey? All right; nex' wolf she not tink dat, mabeso." Laughing and
talking, they trotted home, picking up belated ones who had strung behind the
fastest horses. "Where is Miss Searles, Major?" spoke one. "That's so! don't
know; had a slow horse; by Gad, we must look this up." And the now anxious
father galloped his mount. The others followed sympathetically. Rounding the
bluffs, they saw Ermine's pony quietly feeding. "Where is Ermine?" came a hail
of questions, and presently they almost ran over the girl's horse, now lying on
its side, breathing heavily, and no longer trying to disengage his leg from the
gopher-hole. "The horse is in a gopher-hole," said some one; "and see here--look
at the dirt; he has thrown Miss Searles; here is where she struck." "Yes, but
where is she? where is she?" ejaculated the Major, in a nervous tremor of
excitement. "Where is my girl?" Wolf-Voice had dismounted and found Ermine's
trail, which he followed toward the river. "Come!" he called. "Am show you dose
girl!" While an orderly stayed behind to shoot the horse and get the empty
saddle, the group followed hard on the half-breed. "Done you ride on de trail,
you was keep behine. Dey girl was broke his neck, an' Ermine am pack him."
Stepping briskly forward, the plainsman made quick work of empty moccasin tracks
and burst through the brush. A pistol-shot rang in the rear; an orderly had shot
the horse. A cry of "Help, help!" responded from the river beyond the
cottonwoods, and the horses ploughed their way to the sands. The people all
dismounted around the limp figure and kneeling scout. Her pale face, the hat
with the water in it, and the horse in the gopher-hole made everything clear.
"Here, Swan, ride to the post for an ambulance," spoke the Major, as he too
knelt and took his daughter in his arms. "Ride the horse to death and tell the
ambulance to come running." Some of the women brought their ministering hands to
bear and with more effect. "What happened, Katherine?" whispered her father amid
the eager silence of the gathered people. "What did I do?" she pleaded weakly.
"How was it, Ermine?" "Her horse put his foot in a hole; he is out there now. I
saw her go down. Then I tried to save her. Will she live?" Ermine's eager
interest had not departed because of the advent of so many people. He still
continued to kneel and to gaze in rapture at the creature of his hopes and
fears. No one saw anything in it but the natural interest of one who had been
left with so much responsibility. "If you men will retire, we will endeavor to
find her injuries," spoke one of the older ladies; so the men withdrew. Every
one asked eager questions of the scout, who walked hat in hand, and had never
before shown perturbation under the trying situations in which he and the
soldiers had been placed. "I knew that wolf would get away in the timber, and I
wasn't going to ride my pony for the fun of seeing it, so I was behind. Miss
Searles's horse was slow, and I noticed she was being left; then she went down
and I didn't know what to do,"--which latter statement was true. He had done as
well under the circumstances as any man could, they all admitted. A magpie on an
adjoining limb jeered at the soldiers, though he made no mention of anything
further than the scout had admitted. In due course the ambulance came bounding
behind the straining mules. Mrs. Searles was on the seat with the driver,
hatless, and white with fear. The young woman was placed in and taken slowly to
quarters. Being the only witness, Ermine repeated his story until he grew tired
of speech and wanted only silence which would enable him to think. The greatest
event of his life had happened to him that morning; it had come in a curious
way; it had lasted but a few moments, but it had added new fuel to his burning
mind, which bade fair to consume it altogether. Miss Searles's injuries
consisted of a few bruises and a general shock from which she would soon
recover, said the doctor, and the cantonment slowly regathered its composure,
all except Shockley, who sat, head down, in most disordered thought, slowly
punctuating events as they came to him, by beating on the floor with his
scabbard. "And she gave him her glove and she never gave me any glove--and she
never gave Butler her glove that I know of; and he gave her a wolf and he was
with her when this thing happened. Say, Shockley, me boy, you are too slow, you
are rusty; if you saw an ancient widow woman chopping wood, you would think she
was in love with the wood-pile." And thus did that worthy arrive at wrong
conclusions. He would not give himself the credit of being only a man, whom God
in the wisdom of His creation did not intend to understand women and thus deaden
a world. The camp was in ignorance of the points of contact between Katherine
Searles and the scout; it felt none of the concern which distressed Shockley.
Miss Searles had known Butler back in the States; they were much together here
on the Yellowstone, and it was pretty generally admitted that in so far as she
was concerned Lieutenant Butler had the biggest pair of antlers in the garrison.
That young officer was a fine soldier--one of the best products of West Point,
and was well connected back East, which was no small thing in an affair of this
nature. Also his fellows easily calculated that he must have more than his pay.
Shockley, however, continued to study the strategy of the scout Ermine, and he
saw much to fear. CHAPTER XVII

A PROPOSAL

[Illustration]

"Oh! I say, Captain Lewis, I am all ready to start. I have Ramon, a cook, and
Wolf-Voice, together with pack-animals, but I can't get your man Ermine to say
when he will go." "That's odd, Harding; I don't know of anything to detain him.
But go slow; he's like all these wild men up here; when they will they will, and
when they won't, they'll lay down on you. I'll go round and scout him up. What
is the matter so far as you can determine?" "I can't determine. He says he will
go, but will not name any exact time; tells me to push on and that he will catch
up. That is a curious proposition. He is willing to take my money--"

"Oh! whoa up, Mr. Harding! That fellow doesn't care anything about your money--
make no mistake about that. Money means no more to him than to a blue jay. He
wanted to go back to his own country and was willing, incidentally, to take you.
I'll see; you wait here awhile;" saying which, Captain Lewis went in search of
his man, whom he found whittling a stick pensively. "Hello, my boy, you don't
seem to be very busy. Suppose your heart is out in the hills chasing the elk and
bear." "No, Captain; I don't care much about the hills." "Or the Crow squaws?"
"D---- the Crow squaws!" And Ermine emphasized this by cutting his stick through
the middle. "Want to stay here?" "Yes, I am getting so I like this camp; like
the soldiers--like the wagons--kind of like the whole outfit." "Like to chase
wolves?" interrupted the officer. Ermine slowly turned up his head and settled
his fathomless blue eyes on Lewis, but he said nothing. "Well, Mr. Harding is
all set. You said you would go with him; a soldier must keep his word." "I will
go with him." "When?" Again Ermine shaved some delicate slivers off the stick;
suddenly he threw it away, shut up his knife, and arose. "If Mr. Harding will
pull out now, Wolf-Voice will show him the way. I shall know where the Indian
takes him, and in four days I will walk into his camp. The pack-ponies travel
slowly, I do not care to punch pack-horses; that will do for Ramon and the
cook." "Does that go?" "I have said it. Did I ever lie, Captain Lewis?" "All
right. Mr. Harding will go now. I will attend to that." With this Lewis left
him, and in two hours the little cavalcade trotted westward, out into the hot,
sunlit plains, carrying faith in Ermine's word. The scout, leaning on a log
stable, saw them go. Three days took their slow departure, and on the morrow
Ermine would have to make good his word to follow the Englishmen. He would have
liked to stay even if his body suffered slow fire, but excuses would not avail
for his honor. A soldier's honor was something made much of in these parts; it
pegged higher than the affairs of the flesh. He had not been able to see Miss
Searles, and he wondered what she would feel, or think, or say. He was a thief
when he remembered the stolen kisses, and he dared not go to the Searleses' home
to inquire after her. All this diffidence the public put down to apathy; he had
done his duty, so why further concern himself? After supper he strolled along
the officers' row, desperately forlorn, but hoping and yearning, barely nodding
his head to passers-by. Major Searles approached him with the nervous stride
habitual to a soldier, and held out his hand, saying bluffly: "Of course, I
can't thank you enough for your attention to my daughter, Ermine. But for your
fortunate presence there at the time of the accident, things might have been
bad; how bad I fear to contemplate. Come to my quarters, my boy, and allow my
daughter to thank you. She is quite recovered. She is sitting out-of-doors. She
hasn't been abroad much. Such a fall would have killed an older woman." Together
they made their way to the house, and Ermine passed under the _ramada_ with his
hat off. Mrs. Searles shook his hand and said many motherly things due on such
occasions. "Please forgive me if I do not rise; it is the doctor's orders, you
know." And Miss Searles extended her hand, which the scout reverently took. To
have seen him one would have fancied that, after all, manners must have been
made before men; which idea is, of course, absurd. In response to their
inquiries, he retold the story of the accident and of his ministrations and
perplexities. He did not embellish, but left out very important details,
wondering the while if they were dead to all but his memory. "She should not
ride so poor a horse," ventured Ermine. "She should not have been left
unattended." And this severity was directed at Major Searles by his wife, to
which he feebly pleaded vain extenuations, without hope of their acceptance.
"No, no, my dear; you were always a careless person; one is never safe to place
dependence on you in minor matters. I declare, all men are alike --leastwise
soldiers are. A blanket and a haversack, and the world may wag at will, so far
as they concern themselves." Rising, she adjusted her hat, saying: "I must run
down to Mrs. Taylor's for a minute. Her baby is very ill, and she has sent for
me. You will stay here, Major," and she swept out. "When do you depart for your
hunting with Mr. Harding, Ermine?" asked Searles. "I must go soon. He left camp
three days ago, and I have promised to follow." "I should think you would be
delighted to hunt. I know I should if I were a man," cheerfully remarked the
young woman. "I have always hunted, Miss Searles. I think I should like to do
something else." "What, pray?" "Oh, I don't know, something with a white shirt
in it." "Isn't that foolish? There is no more fun in a white shirt than there is
in a buckskin one, and there is no fun in either when it rains, I am told." A
passing officer appealed to the Major to come out; he was needed, together with
other requests to follow, with reasons why haste was important. "All right, I
will be back in a moment, daughter." And the officer took himself off in
complete disobedience of his wife's orders. "Don't be gone long, father; there
is no one here but Mary and the striker. You know I cannot depend on them." "You
keep the wolves off, Ermine; I won't be gone a minute." And Ermine found himself
alone again with Katherine. This time she was not pale unto death, but warm and
tingling. Her lover's hands and feet took better care of themselves on a horse
than in a chair, but the gloom under the porch at least stayed some of the
embarrassment which her eyes occasioned him. Indeed, it is well known that
lovers prefer night attacks, and despite the law and the prophets, they manage
better without an audience. She gained a particularly entrancing attitude in her
chair by a pussy-cat wiggle which let the point of her very small foot out of
concealing draperies. One hand hung limply toward Ermine over the arm of the
chair, and it seemed to scream out to him to take hold of it. "And when do you
go, Mr. Ermine?" This seemed safe, and along the lines of his self-interest. "I
go to-morrow; I have given my word." "Very naturally there can be nothing to
delay you here," she continued; "the fighting is over, I hear." "There is
something in the world beside fighting." "Yes?" she evaded. "Yes, you detain
me." "I!" and the little foot went back to its nest; the extended hand rose in
protest. "I detain you! My dear Mr. Ermine, I do not understand how I detain
you; really, I am quite recovered from my fall." "You may have got well, Miss
Searles, but I am not. Do you remember?" "Remember--remember--do I remember?
What should I remember? I am told you were very good to me, but I was laboring
under such a shock at the time that you cannot expect much of my memory." "I was
but little better off." "And were you injured also?" "Yes, so bad that I shall
never get well unless you come to my rescue." "I come to your rescue! What can I
do?" Her sword waved in tierce and seconde. "Be my wife; come, girl, be my
wife." He had beaten down her guard; the whole mass was in the fire. The dam had
broken; he led his forlorn hope into the breach. "Come, Katherine, say you will
marry me; say it and save me." "Oh," she almost screamed, "I can't do that; why,
my mother would never consent to it," she appealed in bewilderment. He had risen
and taken a step forward. "What has your mother to say? Say you will be my wife,
Katherine." "Careful, careful, Mr. Ermine; restrain yourself, or I shall call a
servant. No, no, I cannot marry you. Why, what should we do if I did? We should
have to live in the mule corral." "No, come to the mountains with me. I will
make you a good camp." She almost laughed aloud at this. "But I should make a
poor squaw. I fear you would have many quarrels with your dinner. Besides, my
father would not let me marry you. I like you, and you have been very good to
me, but I had no idea we had gotten so far as this. Don't you think you Western
men cover the ground a little too fast?" Ermine drew back. "Why did you kiss
me?" "I didn't," she snapped. Her manner grew cold and strange to him. He had
never seen this mood before. It chilled him not a little, and he sat down again
in the chair. His assault had been repulsed. They were now looking straight into
each other's eyes. Fear had departed from Ermine's and all graciousness from
hers. Divested of their seductive flashes, he saw the eyes of his photograph,
and slowly reaching into the bosom of his shirt, drew out the buckskin bag and
undid it. Turning to the straining light, he gazed a moment, and then said, "It
is you!" "I!--what is I?" "Yes! it is you!" and he handed the much-soiled
photograph labelled "Bogardus" to her. She regarded it. "Why, how on earth did
you come by this, Mr. John Ermine?" "Sak-a-war-te sent it to me in the night,
and he made it talk to me and he made me swear that I would seek the woman until
I found her. Then she would be my wife. I have found you--I do not know--my head
is burning--"

She scanned the photograph, and said in an undertone: "Taken last year in New
York, and for him; yet you have it away out here in the middle of this enormous
desert. He surely would not give it away to you. I do not understand." And she
questioned him sharply as she returned the card. "Who is this Sak-a-war-te?" "He
is God," said the scout. "Oh!" she started up. The little miss had never heard
God connected with affairs of this sort. An active fear of the fire which burned
this extraordinary man's head began to oppress her. "It is very strange. What
has your god got to do with me,--with my--oh, you are joking, Mr. Ermine," she
again appealed, a shadow of her old smile appearing. "No, no; I am not joking. I
have found you. I must believe what the spirits say to me when they take my mind
from me and give it to you," returned the excited man. "But really--I did not
mean to take your mind. I haven't it anywhere about me. You have dreamed all
this." "Yes; it may be only a dream, Miss Searles, but make it come true; please
make it all come true. I should like to live such a dream." "Oh, my good man, I
cannot make the dreams of casual people come true, not such serious dreams as
yours." "You say you would have to live in the corral with mules. Is that
because I have so little money?" "No, it is not money. I do not know how much
you have." "I have often taken enough gold out of the ground in a few days to
last me a year." "Yes, yes, but that is not the only thing necessary." "What is
necessary, then? Tell me what you want." "There would have to be a great deal of
love, you know. That is why any one marries. I have been flattered by the
attentions of many cavaliers like yourself, Mr. Ermine, but I could not marry
any one of them unless I loved him." "And then you do not love me," this in a
low, far-away voice, lopping each word off as though with an axe. "No, I do not.
I have given you no reason to think I did. I like you, and I am sorry for you,
now that I know in what way you regard me. Sit down again and let me tell you."
She crouched herself on the edge of her chair, and he sat in his, revolving his
big hat in both hands between his knees. He was composed, and she vaguely felt
that she owed him a return for his generous acts of the past. She had the light
touch of mature civilization and did not desire her darts to be deadly. Now that
one had laid this simple nature low, she felt a womanly impulse to nurse the
wound. "Some terrible mistake has been made. Believe me, I am truly sorry that
our relationship has not been rightly understood." Here she paused a moment to
take a long breath and observe the effect of her words on the one who had so
easily lost his head. "No, I simply admired you, Mr. Ermine, as I do many of the
brave men about here. I was not thinking of marrying any one. As for living in
the mule corral, I was only joking about that. There might be worse places. I
should dearly love a gold mine, but don't you understand there would have to be
something else--I should have to give you something before we thought of
marrying." "I see it; it all comes to me now," he labored. "You would have to
give me something, and you won't give me yourself. Then give me back my mind--
give me the peace which I always had until I saw you. Can you do that, Miss
Searles? Can you make John Ermine what he was before the steamboat came here,
and let him mount his pony and go away?" It was all so strange, this quiet
appeal, that she passed her hand across her forehead in despair. "If you will
not make my dreams come true; if you will not say the things which the
photograph does; if you will not do what God intends,--then I must take my body
away from here and leave my shadow, my mind, and my heart to be kicked about
among the wagons and the dogs. And I know now that you will soon forget me. Then
I will be John Ermine, riding among the hills, empty as an old buffalo carcass,
moving without life, giving no thought to the sunshine, not feeling the wind nor
caring how the birds fly or the animals run. If you will not marry me--"

"Stop, please stop. I cannot stand this sort of thing, my dear Mr. Ermine. There
are other young women besides myself. Go about the world, back in the States;
you will find whole oceans of them, and without flattery, I feel you will soon
find your mind again." "You have my mind. You have all the mind I ever had." And
his voice dropped until she could distinguish only wild gutturals. He was
talking to himself in the Indian language. Springing up quickly, she flew into
the house, out through it to the rear steps, where she fell upon the neck of
Mary, the cook, to the utter consternation of a soldier, who, to all
appearances, was there with a similar ambition so to do. This latter worthy
flung himself out into the darkness. The cook held Katherine, expecting the
entire Sioux tribe to come pouring through the front door on the instant, and at
this belated interval Mrs. Searles entered her own porch. "Why, Mr. Ermine,
where is Katherine, and where is the Major? Why, you are all alone!" And she
came up standing. "Yes, I am all alone," said the scout, quietly, rising from
the chair and putting on his sombrero. Before she could comprehend, he was gone.
CHAPTER XVIII

MAN TO MAN

[Illustration]

The Major sauntered in shortly and found Mrs. Searles standing over Katherine's
chair, trying to dry her tears and gather the reasons for her grief. Mary's
Indians not having appeared, she stood in the doorway, with her apron raised to
a sort of feminine "charge bayonets." "What in the devil is the circus?"
demanded the father. "It's nothing, father; I am nervous, that is all." "Now,
Major Searles, I want you to sit down and keep quiet. You will drive me frantic.
Why did you run away when I clearly told you to stay here?" Her tones were dry
with formality. Against all manner of people and happenings the Major joyfully
pitted his force and cunning. His only thought in a great crisis was his six-
shooter; but he always hesitated before anything which concerned Mrs. Searles
and a military order. These impelled obedience from the very nature of things.
"But what has happened? What must I do?" "You must sit down," said his wife; and
he sat down. Affairs of this kind could be cleared only by women; he was
conscious that he could not hurry matters. "Now what has happened, Katherine?
Will you tell me? Who did it?" pleaded the mother. "Why, it is nothing, only
that horrible scout wanted to marry me. Did you ever hear anything so
ridiculous?" said the girl, sitting up and made defiant by the idea. "Did he do
anything?" and the Major again forgot his orders and rose truculently.
"Benjamin!" said Mrs. Searles, with asperity; and he again subsided. Like most
soldiers and sailors, he was imperfectly domesticated. "He wanted to marry you?"
she continued with questioning insistence. "Yes, he said I must marry him; that
God wanted me to, and he also said he had lost his mind--"

"Well, I think he has," observed the mother, catching this idea, which was at
least tangible to her. "Is that all, Katherine?" "Is that all, mother? Why,
isn't that enough?" "I mean, he simply asked you to marry him--properly--he
wasn't insulting--insistent beyond--"

"No, he did nothing else, though he went about it in a most alarming way." "You
said, No!" "I most emphatically did, mother." "What then?" "Then he began
mumbling Indian and scared me nearly to death. I ran to Mary." "Dade an' she
did, mum; an' I'm afther loosin' my sinses thinkin' thim rid-divils what do be
ploughin' the land down be the river was devastating the cantonmint for to pass
the time. An' ets only some bye afther wantin' to marry her--the swate thing."
Mrs. Searles interposed, "Mary!" and the domestic retired to the sable silences
of the rear steps, to split a joke with one Private O'Shane, should he venture
to return. "The social savagery of this place is depressing. To think of my
daughter living in a log-cabin, cooking bear meat for a long-haired wild man. In
the future, Benjamin Searles, I trust you will not feel called upon to introduce
your fantastic acquaintances to this house. You can sit on the corral fence to
entertain them. That is where they belong. I suppose next, an out-and-out Indian
will want to be my son-in-law." "I certainly will see that the man does not
again obtrude himself. I do not understand his nerve in this matter. Lewis
thinks the boy's ridgepole is crooked; but he is harmless and has done many good
and gallant deeds. As for his proposing, I simply think he doesn't know any
better. For my part, I think it is about time that the engagement to Mr. Butler
is announced; it will put an end to this foolishness all round," added the
father. "I am going out to see Lewis about this fellow now." "Ben Searles, I
hope you are not going to do anything rash," pleaded the mother. "Of course not,
my dear; the situation doesn't call for any temperature beyond blood-heat. I
only want to put a cooling lotion on the base of that scout's brain. He must
stop this dreaming habit." Having found Lewis at his quarters and seated
himself, the Major began, "Now, Captain, what do you think of this Ermine of
yours--is he crazy?" "Is he crazy? Why, what has he done now?" "Well, by Gad, he
came to my house this evening, and when I stepped out for a minute he proposed
marriage to my daughter--wanted her to marry him! Now, how's that strike you? Is
it just gall, or does he need a physician?" "Well, I will be d----d; proposed
marriage, hey! Looks like he ought to have an opiate," concluded Lewis. "You
know, now that I think of it, I have a little mistrusted him before. He has
shown signs of liking your daughter, but I never regarded the matter seriously--
didn't ever credit him with being an entire fool. The boy's queer, Searles--
mighty queer, but he never did anything wrong; in fact, he is a pretty good boy
--a heap different from most of these double-belted, sage-bush terrors. Then, of
course, he was born and raised in the wilderness, and there is a whole lot of
things he don't savvy. Probably he has lost his head over your daughter and he
can't see why he hasn't a chance. I will send for him, and we will make a big
talk, and I'll send him away to Harding." Turning, the Captain yelled, "Orderly!
Jones! Oh, Jones!" "Yes, sir," responded Jones, as he appeared in the doorway.
"Go find the scout Ermine, if you can, and tell him to report to me immediately.
If you don't find him in half an hour, let it go until to-morrow--understand?
"As I was saying, you see, Major, if this thing wasn't vinegar, it would be
sugar. When I think of him proposing--say, I have to laugh. There is one thing
about him which kept me guessing: it is the Indian reserve of the fellow. He
goes round here like a blue-moon, and if you should hit him over the head with
an axe, I don't think he would bat an eye. He never complains, he never
questions, and when you are right up against it, as we were a half-dozen times
last winter, he is Johnny-on-the-spot. So you see, if he fell in love, no one
would hear the splash. Now that he is in love, we want to tighten the curb
chain; he might--well, he might take it into his head to do something, and that
something might be just what we would never think of." Thus the two speculated
until the sandpaper grating of Ermine's moccasins on the porch warned them, and
looking up they beheld the scout, standing with his rifle in the hollow of his
left arm. This was unusual and produced several seconds of very bad silence.
Captain Lewis held up his hand in mockery of the "peace sign," and said: "I see
you're fixed for war, Ermine. Sit down over there. I want to talk to you." The
scout removed his hat and sat down, but with the ominous rifle in place. He had
been told by the orderly whom he was to encounter; and it had come over him that
wanting to marry Katherine Searles might be some crime against the white man's
law. He had seen very natural actions of men punished under those laws during
his sojourn in camp. "Ermine, I understand that during the temporary absence of
her father this evening, you asked Miss Searles to marry you." "I did, sir."
"Very well. Don't you think you took an unfair advantage of her father's
absence?" "I don't know, sir. A man doesn't speak to a woman before other men,"
replied Ermine, dubiously. The Captain emitted a slight cough, for the blow had
staggered him a little. He knew the law of convention, and he knew the customs
of men; but they did not separate readily in his mind. "In any event, Ermine,
the young lady had given you no encouragement which would warrant you in going
to the length of proposing marriage to her." This was an assertion which Ermine
did not care to discuss. His views would not coincide, and so he fumbled his hat
and made no reply. "I may state that you are not warranted in aspiring to the
hand of Miss Searles for many reasons; further, that she distinctly doesn't want
attention of any kind from you. To this I will add, her father and mother forbid
you all association in the future--do you understand?" This, also, failed to
break the scout's silence. "And," interpolated the father, "I may add that my
daughter is already engaged to be married to Lieutenant Butler, which will end
the matter." If the evening's occurrences had set the nerves of the Searles
family on edge, it had torn the scout's into shreds; but he managed his
stoicism. "Now, my boy," continued Captain Lewis, with a sense of benevolence,
"we do not mean to be hard on you. We all, including Miss Searles, feel a great
pity for you in this matter." "Pity--pity--what is pity?" saying which the boy's
eyes took on an unnatural glow and he rose to his feet. Lewis quickly added, "I
mean that we feel for you." "I know what you feel for me, Captain Lewis, and
Major Searles," and it was evident that Ermine was aroused. "You feel that I am
an uneducated man, without money, and that I do not wear a white shirt; that I
tuck my pants in my leggings and that I sleep among the Indians. I know you
think I am a dog. I know Miss Searles thinks I belong in the corral with the
mules; but, by G----, you did not think I was a dog when the Sioux had your
wagon-train surrounded and your soldiers buffaloed; you did not think I was a
dog when I stood beside the Colonel, and neither did Sitting Bull. You did not
think I was a dog when I kept you all from freezing to death last winter; but
here among the huts and the women I am a dog. I tell you now that I do not
understand such men as you are. You have two hearts: one is red and the other is
blue; and you feel with the one that best suits you at the time. Your blue heart
pities me. Me, a warrior and a soldier! Do you give pity with your coffee and
sow-belly? Is that what you feed a soldier on? Hum-m--G----!" And the scout
slapped his hat on his head. "Steady, steady, my boy; don't you go up in the air
on us," said Lewis, persuasively. "I did not mean to offend you, and we want to
be friends; but you keep your feet on the ground and don't go raring and
pitching, or we may forget you." "Yes; that is it,--forget me; you may forget
me. What's more, you can do it now. I am going far away, so that your eyes will
not remind you." "You are going to make your word good to Mr. Harding, are you
not?" asked the chief of scouts. "What good is a dog's word?" came the bitter
reply. The Major said little, but remained steadily studying the face of the
scout; rising, he approached him with extended hand. "If you are going away, let
us part friends, at least. Here is my hand, and I shall not forget you; I shall
not forget your services to me or mine, and I do not think you are a dog. When
you calm down you may find that you have been unjust to Captain Lewis and
myself." The scout took the Major's hand mechanically, and also that of Lewis,
which the latter offered in turn, saying:--

"In the morning I will see that you get your pay, and if you conclude to return,
I will find you employment." "Thank you, sir; I care nothing for the pay. I did
not come here for money; I came here to help you fight the Sioux, and to be a
man among white men." And once more the young man relapsed into the quiet of his
ordinary discourse. "You certainly have shown yourself a man among men; no one
has ever questioned that," said the Major. "Then why is it wrong for a man among
men to want your daughter to be his wife?" "It is not wrong, but you have gone
about the matter wrong. I have tried to make it plain that her hand is promised
to Mr. Butler." As this was said, two horses trotted up to Captain Lewis's
quarters. A man dismounted, gave his horse to the other, and Butler himself
strode heavily into the room. He was quite gray with dust, with a soiled
handkerchief about his neck, unshaven, booted, and armed. "Hello, Major! Hello,
Lewis! I'm just in with my troop, and if you will pardon me, I will have a word
with Mr. Ermine here." His manner was strained, and knowing the situation as
they all did, the two older officers were alarmed. "Hold up there, Butler; never
mind your word to-night; wait until morning." Butler paid no attention, but
addressed the scout with icy directness. "May I ask, Mr. Ermine, if you have in
your possession a photograph of Miss Searles?" "I have." "Have you it about your
person at present?" "I have, sir." "Then, Mr. Ermine, I have the word of Miss
Searles for it, that the photograph in question was one she had taken, of which
there is only one copy in the world; and which was given to me, and lost by
myself, somewhere on the road between here and Fort Ellis. It must be my
property. If you will let me see it, I can soon identify it. In which case I
demand that you hand it over to me." "Mr. Butler, you will only get that
photograph from off my dead body. You have Miss Searles; is not that enough?" "I
will then take it by force from you!" A tremendous bang roared around the room,
and the little group was lost in smoke. [Illustration: "A TREMENDOUS BANG ROARED
AROUND THE ROOM."] Butler turned half round, his six-shooter going against the
far wall with a crash. He continued to revolve until caught in the Major's arms.
Lewis sprang to his desk, where his pistol lay, and as he turned, the smoke
lifted, revealing Butler lying against the Major's chest, wildly waving his left
arm and muttering savagely between short breaths. Ermine was gone. "Fire on that
man!" yelled Lewis to the orderly outside, taking one shot himself at the
fleeing figure of the scout. The soldier jerked his carbine and thrashed about
the breech-block with a cartridge. "I can't see him, Captain!" he shouted. "Fire
at him, anyway! Fire, I tell you!" And the man discharged his rifle in the
direction in which Ermine's figure had disappeared. Simultaneously with the
shots, the garrison bugles were drawling "Taps," but they left off with an
expiring pop. The lights did not go out in quarters, and the guard turned out
with much noise of shoe leather and rattle of guns. This body soon arrived, and
Lewis spoke from the porch of his quarters. "The scout, Ermine, has just shot
Lieutenant Butler in the arm! He ran that way! Chase him! Go quickly, or he will
get away. Shoot instantly if he resists; and he will, I think." The guard
shuffled off in the darkness and beat up the camp to no purpose. The soldiers
stood about, speculating in low voices and gradually quieting as the word passed
about on the uneasy wings of gossip that Ermine had shot Butler in the arm,
wounding him badly, and that the scout had gone into the earth or up in the air,
for divil the hide nor hair of him could the guard find. When the orderly had
come for Ermine and told him who wanted to see him, the scout scented trouble
ahead. According to the immemorial practices of the desert at such times, he had
saddled his pony, tying him in the darkest and most unlikely place he could
find, which was between two six-mule wagons outside the corral. He armed himself
and obeyed the summons, but he intended never to let a hand be placed on his
shoulder; and he chose death rather than the military court which sat so gravely
around the long table at headquarters. He fully expected to depart for the
mountains on the morrow, but his hand was forced. The quick episode of Butler,
ending in the shot and his flight, had precipitated matters. Shortly he found
himself seated on his horse between the wagons, while the denizens of the
cantonments swarmed around. A group searched the corral with lanterns, and he
heard one soldier tell another what had happened, with the additional
information that Butler was not seriously injured. Armed men passed close to
him, and he knew that discovery meant probable death, because he would not hold
up his hands. Despite the deadly danger which encompassed him, he found time for
disappointment in the news that Butler was only wounded. Even now he would go to
his enemy and make more sure, but that enemy was in the hospital surrounded by
many friends. She, too, was probably there, weeping and hating the responsible
one,--a fugitive criminal driven into the night. The silken robes of self-
respect had been torn from Ermine, and he stood naked, without the law, unloved
by women, and with the hand of all men turned against him. The brotherhood of
the white kind, which had promised him so much, had ended by stealing the heart
and mind of the poor mountain boy, and now it wanted his body to work its cold
will on; but it could have that only dead. This he knew as he loosed five
cartridges, putting them between his teeth and clutching his loaded rifle. Would
the search never cease? The lanterns glided hither and yon; every garrison cur
ran yelping; the dull shuffling of feet was coming directly to the wagons which
stood apart from other objects, and a dog ran under the wagon. With their eyes
on the ground, an officer and two men towered above the light of a lantern. They
were coming directly to the wagons. He kicked the pony and galloped softly out.
Instantly the men began calling, "Halt! halt! G---- d---- you, halt!" but the
ghostly pony only answered feebly the lantern light. "Bang! bang! bang!" came
the shots, which "zee-weeped" about his ears. He doubled quickly in the dark and
trotted to the edge of the camp, which buzzed loudly behind him. He knew he must
pass the sentries, but he took the chance. His apprehensions were quickly
answered. "Halt!" --the man was very near, but it was very dark. "Bang!" --it
missed, and he was away. He stopped shortly, dismounted, and ran his hand
completely over the body of the pony; it was dry. "Good!" For a half-hour he
walked over the herd-grounds, crossing, circling, and stopping; then back as
near to the post as he dared. At last he turned and rode away. He was thoroughly
familiar with the vicinity of the camp, and had no trouble so long as the post
lights guided him. The mountain boy had brought little to the soldier camp but
the qualities of mind which distinguished his remote ancestors of the north of
Europe, who came out of the dark forests clad in skins, and bearing the first
and final law of man, a naked sword on a knotted arm. An interval of many
centuries intervened between him and his fellows; all the race had evolved, all
the laws which they had made for the government of society, all the subtle
customs which experience had decreed should circumscribe associates, were to him
but the hermit's gossip in idle hours at the cabin. The bar sinister was on his
shield; his credentials were the advice of an unreal person to fight in common
with the whites. He came clad in skins on a naked horse, and could barely
understand English when it was in the last adulteration; and still he had made
his way without stumbling until the fatal evening. Now he was fleeing for life
because he had done two of the most natural things which a man can do. "Good-by,
good-by, white men, and good-by, white woman; the frost is in your hearts, and
your blood runs like the melting snow from the hills. When you smile, you only
skin your fangs; and when you laugh, your eyes do not laugh with you. You say
good words which mean nothing. You stroke a man's back as a boy does a dog's,
and kick him later as a boy does. You, woman, you who pick men's hearts and eat
them as a squaw does wild plums, I want no more of you. You, Butler, I wish were
out here in the dark with me; one of us would never see the sun rise. You would
force me!" and the scout vented himself in a hollow laugh which was chill with
murder. The lights were lost behind the rise of the land, and the pony trotted
along. No horse or man not raised on the buffalo range could travel in that
darkness; but both of them made steady progress. "Those Indians will have to
crawl on their knees a whole day to pick up my pony tracks on the herd ground.
The Crows will never try to follow me; the Shoshone may when the white men offer
a reward. That fool of a boy may see his chance to even up the insult which I
gave before the woman. He can shake her hand now for all I would do. I will ride
for two hours before the sun comes, and then let the pony feed." Patting his
horse's neck, he added: "And then, my boy, we will blind our trail in some
creek. I will rub the medicine on your heels, you shall gallop until dark, and
no horse in that camp will get near enough to spoil my sleep." Keeping along the
river flats, floundering occasionally and dismounting to lead through the dry
washes, he kept steadily on, impelled by the fear that the Indian scouts and
cavalry might not stop for his trail, but deploy out at daybreak, and ride fast
to the west, in the hopes that he had not yet made a long start in the darkness.
There was only the danger that his horse might lame himself in the night; but
then he could go back in the hills and make a skulk on foot. Even to be brought
to bay had no great terror; Ermine held his life lightly in the hollow of his
hand. He mused as he rode: "They took my hair out of the braids and let it flow
in the wind; then they said I was a white man. I may be one; but I wish now I
had forgotten my color and I would not be so empty-handed this night. If I had
followed my Indian heart, I could have stolen that girl out from under the noses
of those soldiers, and I may do it yet. When she was riding, I could have taken
her away from the hunting-party, rawhided her on to her horse, and left no more
sign than a bird behind us; but when she looked at me, my blood turned to water.
O Sak-a-war-te, why did you not take the snake's gaze out of her eyes, and not
let poor Ermine sit like a gopher to be swallowed? God, God, have you deserted
me?" CHAPTER XIX

FLIGHT

Ermine understood the "talking wire,"--the telegraph had been made plain to him,
--and he knew the soldiers were stretching one into the west. He sheered away
from the white man's medicine, going up a creek where only the silent waters
swirling about his horse's legs could know the story of his ride, which secret
they would carry to the eternal sea. [Illustration]

The gallant pony's blood was rich from the grain-sacks; he had carried a rider
in the strain of many war-trails, and his heart had not yet failed. In the prime
of life, he was now asked to do the long, quick distance that should lose the
white man; those mighty people who bought the help of mercenary men; whose
inexhaustible food came in the everlasting wagons; and who spoke to each other
twenty sleeps apart. His rider had violated their laws, and they would have him.
Only the pony could save. Having walked the bed of the creek as far as he deemed
necessary, Ermine backed his pony out of the stream into some low bushes, where
he turned him about and rode away. All day over the yellow plains and through
the defiles of the hills loped the fugitive. Once having seen buffalo coming in
his direction, he travelled for miles along a buffalo path which he judged they
would follow. If by fortune they did, he knew it would make the scouts who came
after rub their eyes and smoke many pipes in embarrassment. Not entirely
satisfied with his precautions,--for he thought the Indians would cast ahead
when checked,--he continued to urge the pony steadily forward. The long miles
which lay before his pursuers would make their hearts weak and their ponies'
forelegs wobble. He reflected that since he was indeed going to join Mr.
Harding's party at the secret place in Gap-full-of-arrow-holes,[15] why would
not Lewis's scouts follow the easy trail made by their ponies and trust to
finding him with them; and again, would the Englishman want his company under
his altered status? This he answered by saying that no horse in the cantonment
could eat up the ground with his war-pony; and as for the Englishman, he could
not know of the late tragedy unless the accused chose to tell him. What of his
word? Why was he keeping it? With a quick bullet from his rifle had gone his
honor, along with other things more material. Still, the Gap lay in his way, so
he could stop without inconvenience, at least long enough for a cup of coffee
and some tobacco. The suddenness of his departure had left him no time to gather
the most simple necessities, and he was living by his gun. Only once did he see
Indians far away in the shimmer of the plains. He had dropped into the dry
washes and sneaked away. They might be Crows, but the arrows of doubt made sad
surgery in his poor brain; the spell of the white man's vengeance was over him.
Their arms were long, their purses heavy; they could turn the world against him.
From their strong log-towns they would conjure his undoing by the devious
methods which his experience with them had taught him to dread. The strain of
his thoughts made his head ache as he cast up the events which had forced him to
this wolfing through the lonely desert. He had wanted to marry a pretty girl
whose eyes had challenged him to come on, and when he had ventured them, like a
mountain storm the whole cantonment rattled about his head and shot its bolts to
kill. As the girl had fled his presence at the mere extension of his hand, in
swift response to her emotions the whole combination of white humanity was hard
on the heels of his flying pony. [15] Pryor Gap. *       *       *       *
*

From the summit of the red cliffs Ermine looked down into the secret valley of
his quest, and sitting there beside a huge boulder he studied the rendezvous.
There were Ramon's pack-ponies--he remembered them all. There curled the smoke
from the tangle of brushwood in the bottom, and finally Wolf-Voice and Ramon
came out to gather in the horses for the night. He rode down toward them. Their
quick ears caught the sound of the rattle of the stones loosened by his mount,
and they stopped. He waved his hat, and they recognized him. He came up and
dismounted from his drooping horse, stiff-hided with lather and dust, hollow-
flanked, and with his belly drawn up as tight as the head of a tom-tom. "Are you
alone in the camp? Has no one been here?" "No; what for waas any one been here?"
asked and answered the half-breed. "De King George Man,[16] she waas set by dose
fire an' waas ask me 'bout once a minit when waas Ermine come." [16] Any person
who belonged to the Queen. The men drove the horses in while Ermine made his way
through the brush to the camp-fire. "A-ha! Glad to see you, Mr. Ermine. Gad! but
you must have put your horse through. He is barely holding together in the
middle. Picket him out, and we will soon have some coffee going." Ermine did as
directed and was soon squatting before the fire with his cup and plate. To the
hail of questions he made brief response, which Harding attributed to fatigue
and the inclination of these half-wild men not to mix discourse with the more
serious matter of eating. "How did you leave every one at the camp?" Ermine
borrowed a pipe and interspersed his answers with puffs. "Left them in the night
--and they were all sitting up to see me off. My pony is weak, Mr. Harding. Will
you give me a fresh one in the morning? We ought to start before daylight and
make a long day of it." "My dear man, before daylight? Are we in such haste? It
seems that we have time enough before us." "This is a bad country here. Indians
of all tribes are coming and going. We are better off back in the range. In two
or three sleeps we will be where we can lie on the robe, but not here;" saying
which, Ermine rolled up in his saddle blanket, and perforce the others did
likewise, in view of the short hours in store. The last rasping, straining pack-
rope had been laid while yet the ghostly light played softly with the obscurity
of the morning. The ponies were forced forward, crashing through the bushes,
floundering in the creek, cheered on by hoarse oaths, all strange to the ear of
Harding. The sedate progression of other days was changed to a fox-trot--riding-
whips and trail-ropes slapping about the close-hugged tails of the horses.
Harding congratulated himself on the unexpected energy of his guide; it would
produce results later when wanted in the hunting. The ponies strung out ahead to
escape the persecution of the lash, but Wolf-Voice saw something new in it all,
and as he rode, his fierce little eyes gleamed steadily on Ermine. The half-
breed knew the value of time when he was pushing the horses of the enemy away
from their lodges, but these horses had no other masters. He turned his pony
alongside of Ermine's. "Say, John, what for you waas keep look behin'? Who you
'fraid follar dese pony? Ain't dose Canada-man pay for dese pony--sacre, what
you was do back de camp dare? De Sioux, she broke hout?" And the half-breed's
mischievous eye settled well on his _confr√®re_. "Well, I did that back there
which will make the high hills safer for me than any other place. Don't say
anything to Mr. Harding until I feel safe. I want to think." "You waas shoot
some one, mabeso?" "Yes--that ---- ---- Butler. He said he would force me to
give up the paper we found in the moonlight on the soldier trail down the
Yellowstone a year ago. He pulled his pistol, and I shot him." "You kiell heem--
hey?" "No, caught him in the arm, but it will not kill him. I may go back and do
that--when the soldiers forget a little." "Den you waas run away--hey?" "Yes; I
made the grass smoke from Tongue River to here. I don't think they can follow
me, but they may follow this party. That's why I look behind, Wolf-Voice, and
that's why I want you to look behind." "What for you waas come to de King George
Man, anyhow?" "I wanted coffee and tobacco and a fresh pony and more cartridges,
and it will be many moons before John Ermine will dare look in a trader's store.
If the white men come, I will soon leave you; and if I do, you must stay and
guide Mr. Harding. He is a good man and does what is right by us." "Ah!" hissed
the half-breed, "old Broken-Shoe and White-Robe, she ain' let dose Engun follar
you. You 'spose dey let dose Crow tak de ack-kisr-attah[17] to Crooked-Bear's
boy? Humph, dey 'fraid of hees medecin'." [17] Soldiers. "Well, they will pile
the blankets as high as a horse's back, and say to the Shoshone, 'Go get the
yellow-hair, and these are your blankets.' What then?" "Ugh! ugh!--a-nah,"
grunted the half-breed; "de ---- ---- Shoshone, we will leek de pony--come--
come!" The energy of the march, the whacking ropes, and scampering horses passed
from satisfaction to downright distress in Mr. Harding's mind. He pleaded for
more deliberation, but it went unheeded. The sun had gone behind the hard blue
of the main range before they camped, and the good nature of the Englishman
departed with it. "Why is it necessary to break our cattle down by this
tremendous scampering? It does not appeal to my sense of the situation." "Wael,
meester, wan more sun we waas en de hiell--den we have long smoke; all you waas
do waas sit down smoke your pipe--get up--kiell dose grizzly bear--den sit down
some more." [Illustration: RAMON.] But this observation of the half-breed's was
offset by Ramon, who was cleaning a frying-pan with a piece of bread, and
screwing his eyes into those of Wolf-Voice. The matter was not clear to him.
"What good can come of running the legs off the ponies? Why can't we sit down
here and smoke?" "You waas trader--you waas spend all de morning pack de pony--
spend all the afternoon unpack heem--a man see your night fire from stan where
you waas cook your breakfast--bah!" returned Wolf-Voice. This exasperated Ramon,
who vociferated, "When I see men run the pony dat way, I was wander why dey run
dem." Wolf-Voice betook himself to that ominous silence which, with Indians,
follows the knife. Ermine was lame in the big white camp, but out here in the
desert he walked ahead; so, without looking up, he removed his pipe, and said in
his usual unemotional manner, "Shut up!" The command registered like a gong.
Wolf-Voice sat down and smoked. When men smoke they are doing nothing worse than
thinking. The cook ceased doing the work he was paid for, and also smoked. Every
one else smoked, and all watched the greatest thinker that the world has ever
known--the Fire. The first man to break the silence was the Englishman. Whether
in a frock coat, or a more simple garment, the Englishman has for the last few
centuries been able to think quicker, larger, and more to the purpose in hours
of bewilderment, than any other kind of man. He understood that his big purpose
was lost in this "battle of the kites and crows." The oak should not wither
because one bird robbed another's nest. As a world-wide sportsman he had seen
many yellow fellows shine their lethal weapons to the discomfiture of his plans;
and he knew that in Ermine he had an unterrified adversary to deal with. He
talked kindly from behind his pipe. "Of course, Ermine, I am willing to do what
is proper under any and all circumstances, and we will continue this vigorous
travel if you can make the necessity of it plain to me. Frankly, I do not
understand why we are doing it, and I ask you to tell me." Ermine continued to
smoke for a time, and having made his mind up he removed his pipe and said
slowly: "Mr. Harding, I shot Butler, and the soldiers are after me. I have to go
fast--you don't--that's all." The gentleman addressed opened wide eyes on his
guide and asked in low amazement, "D---- me--did you? Did you kill him?" "No,"
replied Ermine. Rising from his seat, Mr. Harding took the scout to one side,
out of reach of other ears, and made him tell the story of the affair, with most
of the girl left out. "Why did you not give him the photograph?" "Because he
said he would make me give it and drew his pistol, and what is more, I am going
back to kill the man Butler--after a while. We must go fast to-morrow, then I
will be where I am safe, for a time at least." All this gave Harding a sleepless
night. He had neither the power nor the inclination to arrest the scout. He did
not see how the continuance of his hunt would interfere with final justice; and
he hoped to calm the mood and stay the murderous hand of the enraged man. So in
half-bewilderment, on the morrow, that staid traveller found himself galloping
away from the arms of the law, in a company of long-haired vagabonds; and at
intervals it made him smile. This was one of those times when he wished his
friends at home could have a look at him. "Say, Wolf-Voice," said he, "Ermine
says he is going back to kill Lieutenant Butler sometime later." "He says dat--
hey?" "Yes, he says that." "Wiell den--she wiell do eet--var much, 'fraid--what
for she wan kiell dose man Butler? She already waas shoot heem en the harm." "I
think Ermine is jealous," ventured Harding. "What you call jealous?" queried the
half-breed. "Ermine wants Butler's girl and cannot get her; that is the
trouble." "Anah-a! a bag of a squaw, ees eet?" and Wolf-Voice ran out to head a
pack-horse into the line of flight. Coming back he continued: "Say, Meester
Harding, dese woman he ver often mak' man wan' kiell some ozer man. I have done
dose ting." "Whew!" said Harding, in amazement, but he caught himself. "But,
Wolf-Voice, we do not want our friend Ermine to do it, and I want you to promise
me you will help me to keep him from doing it." "'Spose I say, 'Ermine, you no
kiell Meester Butler'--he teel me to go to hell, mabeso--what den?" "Oh, he may
calm down later." "Na--Engun she no forget," cautioned the half-breed. "But
Ermine is not an Indian." "Na, but she all de same Engun," which was true so far
as that worthy could see. "If we do not stop him from killing Butler, he will
hang or be shot for it, sooner or later, and that is certain," said Harding.
"Yees--yees; deese white man have funny way when one man kiell 'nozer. Ermine
ees brave man--he eese see red, an' he wiell try eet eef he do hang. No one eese
able for stop heem but deese Crooked-Bear," observed the half-breed. "Is
Crooked-Bear an Indian chief?" "Na; she ain' Enjun, she ain' white man; she come
out of the groun'. Hees head eet waas so big an' strong eet were break hees back
for to carry eet." "Where does this person live?" ventured Harding. "Where she
eese lieve, ah?--where Ermine an' his pony can find heem," was the vague reply.
"You no wan' Ermine for kiell deese Butler; weel den, you say, 'Ermine, you go
see Crooked-Bear--you talk wid heem.' I weel take you where you wan' go een de
montaign for get de grizzly bear." "I suppose that is the only solution, and I
suppose it is my duty to do it, though the thing plays havoc with my
arrangements." Later the trail steepened and wound its tortuous way round the
pine and boulders, the ponies grunting under their burdens as they slowly pushed
their toilsome way upwards. When Ermine turned here to look back he could see a
long day's march on the trail, and he no longer worried concerning any pursuit
which might have been in progress. They found their beds early, all being
exhausted by the long day's march, particularly the fugitive scout. On the
following morning, Harding suggested that he and Ermine begin the hunting, since
fresh meat was needed in camp; so they started. In two hours they had an elk
down and were butchering him. The antlers were in the velvet and not to the
head-hunter's purpose. Making up their package of meat and hanging the rest out
of the way of prowling animals, to wait a pack-horse, they sat down to smoke.
"Are you still intending to kill Mr. Butler?" ventured Harding. "Yes, when you
are through hunting, I shall begin--begin to hunt Butler." "You will find your
hunting very dangerous, Ermine," ventured Harding. "It does not matter; he has
got the girl, and he may have my life or I shall have his." "But you cannot have
the girl. Certainly after killing Butler the young lady will not come to you. Do
you think she would marry you? Do you dream you are her choice?" "No, the girl
would not marry me; I have forgotten her," mused Ermine, as he patiently lied to
himself. "Does this maiden wish to marry Butler?" asked Harding, who now
recalled garrison gossip to the effect that all things pointed that way. "She
does." "Then why do you kill the man she loves?" "Because I do not want to think
he is alive." The wide vacancy of the scout's blue eyes, together with the low
deliberation in his peaceful voice, was somewhat appalling to Harding. He never
had thought of a murderer in this guise, and he labored with himself to believe
it was only a love-sickness of rather alarming intenseness; but there was
something about the young man which gave this idea pause. His desperation in
battle, his Indian bringing-up, made it all extremely possible, and he searched
in vain for any restraining forces. So for a long time they sat by the dead elk,
and Harding sorted and picked out all the possible reasons he could conjure as
to why Ermine should not kill Butler, until it began to dawn upon him that he
was not replying to his arguments at all, but simply reiterating his own
intentions despite them. He then recalled cases in England where fists had been
the arguments under a rude lover's code; only out here the argument was more
vital, more insistent, and the final effect left the lady but one choice should
she care to interest herself in the affair. Resuming his talk, Harding suggested
that his guide go to his own friends, who might advise him more potently than he
was able, and ended by asking pointedly, "You have friends, I presume?" "I have
one friend," answered the youth, sullenly. "Who is he?" "Crooked-Bear," came the
reply. "Crooked-Bear is your friend; then you must listen to him; what he
advises will probably be the thing to do." "Of course I will listen to him. He
is the only person in the world I care for now. I have often heard him talking
to himself, and I think he has known a woman whom he cannot forget," spoke
Ermine. "He will not want me to seek my enemy's life. I have talked too much,
Mr. Harding. Talk weakens a man's heart. I will make no more talk." "Well, then,
my man, go to your friend; I can do nothing more," and Harding arose. They tied
their meat on the saddles, mounted, and sought their camp. On the following
morning Ermine had gone. CHAPTER XX

THE END OF ALL THINGS

The heart of the rider hung like a leaden weight in his body, as he cast
accustomed glances at the old trail up the mountain to Crooked-Bear's cabin. He
heard the dogs bark, and gave the wolf's call which was the hermit's
countersign. The dogs grew menacing at his unfamiliar scent, but a word
satisfied them. A dog forgets many things about a person in a year, but never
his voice. From out of a dark corner came the goblin of the desolate mountain,
ready with his gun for the unwelcome, but to greet Ermine with what enthusiasm
his silent forest ways had left him. For a long time they held each other's
hands, while their faces lighted with pleasure; even the warmth of kindliness
kindling in the scout's as he stood in the presence of one who did not seek him
with the corner of his eyes. [Illustration]

As they built the fire and boiled the water, the old man noted the improved
appearance of his prot√©g√©--the new clothes and the perfect equipment were a
starched reminder of the glories of the old world, which he had left in the
years long gone. He plied his questions, and was more confused to uncover
Ermine's lack of enthusiasm concerning the events which must have been
tremendous, and with difficulty drew the belated news of war and men and things
from him. Then like the raising of a curtain, which reveals the play, the hermit
saw suddenly that it was heavy and solemn--he was to see a tragedy, and this was
not a play; it was real, it was his boy, and he did not want to see a tragedy.
He feared to have it go on; he shut his eyes for a long time, and then rose to
his feet and put his hands on the young man's shoulders. He sought the weak
gleam of the eyes in the dusk of the cabin. "Tell me, boy, tell me all; you
cannot hide it any more than a deer can hide his trail in the snow. I can read
your thoughts." Ermine did not immediately reply, but the leaden heart turned
slowly into a burning coal. "Crooked-Bear, I wanted a white girl for my wife,
and I shot a soldier, who drew a revolver and said he would force me to give him
her picture which I had in my pocket, and then I ran away, everybody shooting at
me. They may even come here for me. They want to stand me up beside the long
table with all the officers sitting around it, and they want to take me out and
hang me on a tree for the ravens and magpies to pick at. That is what your white
people want to do to me, Crooked-Bear, and by God they are going to have a
chance to do it, for I am going back to kill the man and get the girl or die. Do
you hear that, Crooked-Bear, do you hear that?" The hermit's arms dropped to his
side, and he could make no sound or sign. "Sit down, be quiet, boy; let us talk
more of this thing. Be calm, and I can find a reason why you will not want to
stain your hands with this man's blood. When I sent you to the white men to do a
man's work in a white man's way, I did not think you would lock horns with any
buck you met on the trail, like the dumb things that carry their reason for
being on the point of their antlers--sit down." And the long arms of the hermit
waved with a dropping motion. Ermine sat down, but by no means found his
composure. Even in the darkness his eyes gave an unnatural light, his muscles
twitched, and his feet were not still. "I knew, Crooked-Bear, I knew you would
talk that way. It is the soft talk of the white men. She made a fool of me, and
he was going to put his foot on me as though John Ermine was a grasshopper, and
every white man would say to me after that, 'Be quiet, Ermine, sit down.' Bah! I
will be quiet and I will sit down until they forget a little, and then--" Ermine
emitted the savage snarl of a lynx in a steel trap. Slapping his knee, he
continued: "The white men in the camp are two-sided; they pat you with a hand
that is always ready to strike. When the girl looked at me, it lighted a fire in
my heart, and then she blew the flame until I was burning up. She told me as
well as any words can say, 'Come on,' and when I offered her my hand she blatted
like a fawn and ran away. As if that were not enough, this Butler walked into
the room and talked to me as though I were a dog and drew his gun; everything
swam before my eyes, and they swim yet, Crooked-Bear. I tell you I will kill him
as surely as day follows night. These soldiers talk as white and soft as milk
when it suits their plan, but old Major Searles says that they stand pat in war,
that they never give up the fight, that they must win if it takes years to do
it. Very well, I shall not forget that." "But, my boy, you must not see red in a
private feud; that is only allowed against the enemies of the whole people. Your
heart has gone to your head; you can never win a white woman by spilling the
blood of the other man who happens to love her also. That is not the way with
them." "No, it is not the way with them; it is the way with their women to set a
man on fire and then laugh at him, and it is the way with their men to draw a
gun. What do they expect, Crooked-Bear? I ask you that!" "Who was the girl,
Ermine?" The scout unwrapped the package from his bosom, and handed the
photograph to the old man, saying, "She is like that." The hermit regarded the
picture and ventured, "An officer's daughter?" "Yes; daughter of Major Searles."
"Who was the man you shot?" "A young pony soldier,--an officer; his name is
Butler." And gradually Ermine was led to reveal events to the wise man, who was
able to piece out the plot with much knowledge not natural to the wilds of the
Rocky Mountains. And it was a tragedy. He knew that the girl's unfortunate shot
had penetrated deeper than Ermine's, and that the Law and the Lawless were in a
death grapple. They sought their bunks, and in the following days the prophet
poured much cold water on Ermine's determination, which only turned to steam and
lost itself in the air. The love of the woman and the hate of the man had taken
root in the bedrock of his human nature, and the pallid "should nots" and "must
nots" of the prophet only rustled the leaves of Ermine's philosophy. "He has
taken her from me; he has made me lose everything I worked for with the white
men; he has made me a human wolf, and I mean to go back and kill him. You say I
may lose my life; ho! what is a dead man? A dead man and a buffalo chip look
just alike to these mountains, to this sky, and to me, Crooked-Bear," came the
lover's reply. And at other times: "I know, Crooked-Bear, that you wanted a girl
to marry you once, and because she would not, you have lived all your life like
a gray bear up here in these rocks, and you will die here. I am not going to do
that; I am going to make others drink with me this bitter drink, which will
sweeten it for me." Sadly the hermit saw this last interest on earth pass from
him; saw Fate wave her victorious banners over him; saw the forces of nature
work their will; and he sank under the burden of his thoughts. "I had hoped," he
said to himself, "to be able to restore this boy to his proper place among the
white people, but I have failed. I do not understand why men should be so
afflicted in this world as Ermine and I have been, but doubtless it is the
working of a great law, and possibly of a good one. My long years as a hunter
have taught me that the stopping of the heart-beat is no great thing--it is soon
over; but the years of living that some men are made to undergo is a very trying
matter. Brave and sane is he who keeps his faith. I fear for the boy." After a
few weeks Ermine could no longer bear with the sullen savagery of his emotions,
and he took his departure. Crooked-Bear sat by his cabin door and saw him tie
his blanket on his saddle; saw him mount and extend his hand, which he shook,
and they parted without a word. They had grown accustomed to this ending; there
was nothing in words that mattered now. The prophet's boy disappeared in the
gloom of the woods, snapping bushes, and rolling stones, until there was no
sound save the crackling of the fire on the lonely hearth. As Ermine ambled over
the yellow wastes, he thought of the difference between now and his going to the
white man one year ago. Then he was full of hopes; but now no Crow Indian would
dare be seen in his company--not even Wolf-Voice could offer him the comfort of
his reckless presence. He was compelled to sneak into the Absaroke camp in the
night, to trade for an extra pony with his relatives, and to be gone before the
morning. The ghostly tepees, in the quiet of the night, seemed to dance around
him, coming up, and then retiring, while their smoke-flaps waved their giant
fingers, beckoning him to be gone. The dogs slunk from him, and the ponies
walked away. The curse of the white man was here in the shadows, and he could
feel the Indians draw their robes more closely over their heads as they dreamed.
The winds from the mountains blew on his back to help him along, and whispered
ugly thoughts. All the good of the world had drawn away from Ermine, and it
seemed that the sun did not care to look at him, so long was he left to stumble
through the dark. But Nature did not paint this part of her day any blacker than
she had Ermine's heart; each footfall of his pony took him nearer to death, and
he whipped on impatiently to meet it. Hope had long since departed--he could not
steal the girl; he realized the impossibility of eluding pursuit; he only wanted
to carry Butler with him away from her. All the patient training of Crooked-
Bear, all the humanizing influence of white association, all softening moods of
the pensive face in the photograph, were blown from the fugitive as though
carried on a wind; he was a shellfish-eating cave-dweller, with a Springfield, a
knife, and a revolver. He had ceased to think in English, and muttered to
himself in Absaroke. As his pony stumbled at a ford in the river, he cut it
savagely with his whip,--the pony which was the last of his friends,--and it
grunted piteously as it scrambled for its foothold. Day after day he crawled
through the rugged hills far from the places where men might be; for every one
was his enemy, and any chance rifle would take away from him his vengeance. The
tale of his undoing had travelled wide--he found that out in the Crow camp; Ba-
cher-hish-a had told him that through her tears. He could trust no one; the
scouts at Tongue River might be apathetic in an attempt to capture him, but they
could not fail to report his presence if seen in the vicinity. Butler was
probably in the middle of the log-town, which swarmed with soldiers, but it was
there he must go, and he had one friend left, just one; it is always the last
friend such a one has,--the Night. Having arrived in the vicinity of the post,
he prowled out on foot with his only friend. It was early, for he must do his
deed while yet the lights were lit. Any one moving about after "taps" would
surely be investigated by the guard. The country was not yet tranquil enough to
permit of laxity in the matter of sentry duty, and the soldiers counted "ten"
very fast after they challenged. He had laid aside his big hat, and was wrapped
in his blanket. Many Indians were about, and he was less apt to be spoken to or
noticed. He moved forward to the scout fire, which was outside of the guard-
line, and stood for a time in some brushwood, beyond the play of the flames. He
was closely enveloped in his blanket, and although Indians passed quite near
him, he was not noticed. Suddenly he heard a detail of wagons clanking up the
road, and conjectured rightly that they would go into the post. He ran silently
toward them, and stooping low, saw against the skyline that the cavalry guard
had worked up in front, impatient to shave the time when they should reach their
quarters. It was a wood train, and it clanked and ground and jingled to the
quartermaster's corral, bearing one log on the last wagon which was John Ermine
and his fortunes. This log slid to the ground and walked swiftly away. *       *
*       *       *

The time for "taps" was drawing near, and the post buzzed in the usual
expectation of that approaching time of quiet. A rifle-shot rang loud and clear
up on the officers' row; it was near Major Searles's house, every one said as
they ran. Women screamed, and Tongue River cantonment laid its legs to the
ground as it gathered to the place. Officers came with revolvers, and the guard
with lanterns. Mrs. Searles and her daughter were clasped in each other's arms,
while Mary, the cook, put her apron over her head. Searles ran out with his gun;
the shot had been right under the window of his sitting-room. An Indian voice
greeted him, "Don' shoot; me killi him." "Who in h---- are you?" swore Searles,
at a present. "Don' shoot, me Ahh√¶ta--all same Sharp-Nose--don' shoot--me killi
him." "Killi who? Who have you killed? Talk up quick!" "Me killi him. You come--
you see." By this time the crowd drew in with questions and eager to help. A
sergeant arrived with a lantern, and the guard laid rude hands on the Crow
scout, Sharp-Nose, who was well known. He was standing over the prostrate
figure, and continued to reiterate, "Me killi him." The lantern quickly
disclosed the man on the ground to be John Ermine, late scout and fugitive from
justice, shot through the heart and dead, with his blanket and rifle on the
ground beside him. As he looked through the window, he had been stalked and
killed by the fool whom he would not allow to shake hands with Katherine
Searles, and a few moments later, when Sharp-Nose was brought into her presence,
between two soldiers, she recognized him when he said, "Mabeso, now you shake
hands." "Yes, I will shake hands with you, Sharp-Nose," and half to herself, as
she eyed her malevolent friend, she muttered, "and he kept you to remember me
by." The following pages are advertisements of

THE MACMILLAN STANDARD LIBRARY

THE MACMILLAN FICTION LIBRARY

THE MACMILLAN JUVENILE LIBRARY

THE MACMILLAN STANDARD LIBRARY

This series has taken its place as one of the most important popular-priced
editions. The "Library" includes only those books which have been put to the
test of public opinion and have not been found wanting,--books, in other words,
which have come to be regarded as standards in the fields of knowledge--
literature, religion, biography, history, politics, art, economics, sports,
sociology, and belles lettres. Together they make the most complete and
authoritative works on the several subjects. =_Each volume, cloth, 12mo, 50
cents net; postage, 10 cents extra_=

=Addams--The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets=

BY JANE ADDAMS

"Shows such sanity, such breadth and tolerance of mind, and such penetration
into the inner meanings of outward phenomena as to make it a book which no one
can afford to miss." --_New York Times._

=Bailey--The Country Life Movement in the United States=

BY L. H. BAILEY

"... clearly thought out, admirably written, and always stimulating in its
generalization and in the perspectives it opens." --_Philadelphia Press._

=Bailey and Hunn--The Practical Garden Book=

BY L. H. BAILEY AND C. E. HUNN

"Presents only those facts that have been proved by experience, and which are
most capable of application on the farm." --_Los Angeles Express._

=Campbell--The New Theology=

BY R. J. CAMPBELL

"A fine contribution to the better thought of our times written in the spirit of
the Master."--_St. Paul Dispatch._

=Clark--The Care of a House=

BY T. M. CLARK

"If the average man knew one-ninth of what Mr. Clark tells him in this book, he
would be able to save money every year on repairs, etc." --_Chicago Tribune._

=Conyngton--How to Help: A Manual of Practical Charity=

BY MARY CONYNGTON

"An exceedingly comprehensive work with chapters on the homeless man and woman,
care of needy families, and the discussions of the problems of child labor."
=Coolidge--The United States as a World Power=

BY ARCHIBALD CARY COOLIDGE

"A work of real distinction ... which moves the reader to thought." --_The
Nation._

=Croly--The Promise of American Life=

BY HERBERT CROLY

"The most profound and illuminating study of our national conditions which has
appeared in many years." --THEODORE ROOSEVELT. =Devine--Misery and Its Causes=

BY EDWARD T. DEVINE

"One rarely comes across a book so rich in every page, yet so sound, so logical,
and thorough." --_Chicago Tribune._

=Earle--Home Life in Colonial Days=

BY ALICE MORSE EARLE

"A book which throws new light on our early history." =Ely--Evolution of
Industrial Society=

BY RICHARD T. ELY

"The benefit of competition and the improvement of the race, municipal
ownership, and concentration of wealth are treated in a sane, helpful, and
interesting manner." --_Philadelphia Telegraph._

=Ely--Monopolies and Trusts=

BY RICHARD T. ELY

"The evils of monopoly are plainly stated, and remedies are proposed. This book
should be a help to every man in active business life." --_Baltimore Sun._

=French--How to Grow Vegetables=

BY ALLEN FRENCH

"Particularly valuable to a beginner in vegetable gardening, giving not only a
convenient and reliable planting-table, but giving particular attention to the
culture of the vegetables." --_Suburban Life._

=Goodyear--Renaissance and Modern Art=

W. H. GOODYEAR

"A thorough and scholarly interpretation of artistic development." =Hapgood--
Abraham Lincoln: The Man of the People=

BY NORMAN HAPGOOD

"A life of Lincoln that has never been surpassed in vividness, compactness, and
homelike reality." --_Chicago Tribune._

=Haultain--The Mystery of Golf=

BY ARNOLD HAULTAIN

"It is more than a golf book. There is interwoven with it a play of mild
philosophy and of pointed wit." --_Boston Globe._

=Hearn--Japan: An Attempt at Interpretation=

BY LAFCADIO HEARN

"A thousand books have been written about Japan, but this one is one of the
rarely precious volumes which opens the door to an intimate acquaintance with
the wonderful people who command the attention of the world to-day." --_Boston
Herald._

=Hillis--The Quest of Happiness=

BY REV. NEWELL DWIGHT HILLIS

"Its whole tone and spirit is of a sane, healthy optimism." --_Philadelphia
Telegraph._

=Hillquit--Socialism in Theory and Practice=

BY MORRIS HILLQUIT

"An interesting historical sketch of the movement." --_Newark Evening News._

=Hodges--Everyman's Religion=

BY GEORGE HODGES

"Religion to-day is pre√´minently ethical and social, and such is the religion so
ably and attractively set forth in these pages." --_Boston Herald._

=Horne--David Livingstone=

BY SILVESTER C. HORNE

The centenary edition of this popular work. A clear, simple, narrative biography
of the great missionary, explorer, and scientist. =Hunter--Poverty=

BY ROBERT HUNTER

"Mr. Hunter's book is at once sympathetic and scientific. He brings to the task
a store of practical experience in settlement work gathered in many parts of the
country." --_Boston Transcript._

=Hunter--Socialists at Work=

BY ROBERT HUNTER

"A vivid, running characterization of the foremost personalities in the
Socialist movement throughout the world." --_Review of Reviews._

=Jefferson--The Building of the Church=

BY CHARLES E. JEFFERSON

"A book that should be read by every minister." =King--The Ethics of Jesus=

BY HENRY CHURCHILL KING

"I know no other study of the ethical teaching of Jesus so scholarly, so
careful, clear and compact as this."--G. H. PALMER, Harvard University. =King--
Rational Living=

BY HENRY CHURCHILL KING

"An able conspectus of modern psychological investigation, viewed from the
Christian standpoint." --_Philadelphia Public Ledger._

=London--The War of the Classes=

BY JACK LONDON

"Mr. London's book is thoroughly interesting, and his point of view is very
different from that of the closest theorist." --_Springfield Republican._

=London--Revolution and Other Essays=

BY JACK LONDON

"Vigorous, socialistic essays, animating and insistent." =Lyon--How to Keep Bees
for Profit=

BY EVERETT D. LYON

"A book which gives an insight into the life history of the bee family, as well
as telling the novice how to start an apiary and care for it." --_Country Life
in America._

=McLennan--A Manual of Practical Farming=

BY JOHN MCLENNAN

"The author has placed before the reader in the simplest terms a means of
assistance in the ordinary problems of farming." --_National Nurseryman._

=Mabie--William Shakespeare: Poet, Dramatist, and Man=

BY HAMILTON W. MABIE

"It is rather an interpretation than a record." --_Chicago Standard._

=Mahaffy--Rambles and Studies in Greece=

BY J. P. MAHAFFY

"To the intelligent traveler and lover of Greece this volume will prove a most
sympathetic guide and companion." =Mathews--The Church and the Changing Order=

BY SHAILER MATHEWS

"The book throughout is characterized by good sense and restraint.... A notable
book and one that every Christian may read with profit." --_The Living Church._

=Mathews--The Gospel and the Modern Man=

BY SHAILER MATHEWS

"A succinct statement of the essentials of the New Testament." --_Service._

=Patten--The Social Basis of Religion=

BY SIMON N. PATTEN

"A work of substantial value." --_Continent._

=Peabody--The Approach to the Social Question=

BY FRANCIS GREENWOOD PEABODY

"This book is at once the most delightful, persuasive, and sagacious
contribution to the subject." --_Louisville Courier-Journal._

=Pierce--The Tariff and the Trusts=

BY FRANKLIN PIERCE

"An excellent campaign document for a non-protectionist." --_Independent._

=Rauschenbusch--Christianity and the Social Crisis=

BY WALTER RAUSCHENBUSCH

"It is a book to like, to learn from, and to be charmed with." --_New York
Times._

=Riis--The Making of an American=

BY JACOB RIIS

"Its romance and vivid incident make it as varied and delightful as any
romance." --_Publisher's Weekly._

=Riis--Theodore Roosevelt, the Citizen=

BY JACOB RIIS

"A refreshing and stimulating picture." --_New York Tribune._

=Ryan--A Living Wage; Its Ethical and Economic Aspects=

BY REV. J. A. RYAN

"The most judicious and balanced discussion at the disposal of the general
reader." --_World To-day._

=St. Maur--A Self-supporting Home=

BY KATE V. ST. MAUR

"Each chapter is the detailed account of all the work necessary for one month--
in the vegetable garden, among the small fruits, with the fowls, guineas,
rabbits, and in every branch of husbandry to be met with on the small farm."
--_Louisville Courier-Journal._

=Sherman--What is Shakespeare?=

BY L. A. SHERMAN

"Emphatically a work without which the library of the Shakespeare student will
be incomplete." --_Daily Telegram._

=Sidgwick--Home Life in Germany=

BY A. SIDGWICK

"A vivid picture of social life and customs in Germany to-day." =Smith--The
Spirit of American Government=

BY J. ALLEN SMITH

"Not since Bryce's 'American Commonwealth' has a book been produced which deals
so searchingly with American political institutions and their history." --_New
York Evening Telegram._

=Spargo--Socialism=

BY JOHN SPARGO

"One of the ablest expositions of Socialism that has ever been written." --_New
York Evening Call._

=Tarbell--History of Greek Art=

BY T. B. TARBELL

"A sympathetic and understanding conception of the golden age of art."
=Valentine--How to Keep Hens for Profit=

BY C. S. VALENTINE

"Beginners and seasoned poultrymen will find in it much of value." --_Chicago
Tribune._

=Van Dyke--The Gospel for a World of Sin=

BY HENRY VAN DYKE

"One of the basic books of true Christian thought of to-day and of all times."
--_Boston Courier._

=Van Dyke--The Spirit of America=

BY HENRY VAN DYKE

"Undoubtedly the most notable interpretation in years of the real America. It
compares favorably with Bryce's 'American Commonwealth.'" --_Philadelphia
Press._

=Veblen--The Theory of the Leisure Class=

BY THORSTEIN B. VEBLEN

"The most valuable recent contribution to the elucidation of this subject."
--_London Times._

=Wells--New Worlds for Old=

BY H. G. WELLS

"As a presentation of Socialistic thought as it is working to-day, this is the
most judicious and balanced discussion at the disposal of the general reader."
--_World To-day._

=White--The Old Order Changeth=

BY WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE

"The present status of society in America. An excellent antidote to the
pessimism of modern writers on our social system." --_Baltimore Sun._

THE MACMILLAN FICTION LIBRARY

A new and important series of some of the best popular novels which have been
published in recent years. These successful books are now made available at a
popular price in response to the insistent demand for cheaper editions. =_Each
volume, cloth, 12mo, 50 cents net; postage, 10 cents extra_=

=Allen--A Kentucky Cardinal=

BY JAMES LANE ALLEN

"A narrative, told with na√Øve simplicity, of how a man who was devoted to his
fruits and flowers and birds came to fall in love with a fair neighbor." --_New
York Tribune._

=Allen--The Reign of Law=      =_A Tale of the Kentucky Hempfields_=

BY JAMES LANE ALLEN

"Mr. Allen has style as original and almost as perfectly finished as
Hawthorne's.... And rich in the qualities that are lacking in so many novels of
the period." --_San Francisco Chronicle._

=Atherton--Patience Sparhawk=

BY GERTRUDE ATHERTON

"One of the most interesting works of the foremost American novelist." =Child--
Jim Hands=

BY RICHARD WASHBURN CHILD

"A big, simple, leisurely moving chronicle of life. Commands the profoundest
respect and admiration. Jim is a real man, sound and fine." --_Daily News._

=Crawford--The Heart of Rome=

BY MARION CRAWFORD

"A story of underground mysterie." =Crawford--Fair Margaret: A Portrait=

BY MARION CRAWFORD

"A story of modern life in Italy, visualizing the country and its people, and
warm with the red blood of romance and melodrama." --_Boston Transcript._

=Davis--A Friend of C√¶sar=

BY WILLIAM STEARNS DAVIS

"There are many incidents so vivid, so brilliant, that they fix themselves in
the memory." --NANCY HUSTON BANKS in _The Bookman_. =Drummond--The Justice of
the King=

BY HAMILTON DRUMMOND

"Read the story for the sake of the living, breathing people, the adventures,
but most for the sake of the boy who served love and the King." --_Chicago
Record-Herald._

=Elizabeth and Her German Garden=

"It is full of nature in many phases--of breeze and sunshine, of the glory of
the land, and the sheer joy of living." --_New York Times._

=Gale--Loves of Pelleas and Etarre=

BY ZONA GALE

"... full of fresh feeling and grace of style, a draught from the fountain of
youth." --_Outlook._

=Herrick--The Common Lot=

BY ROBERT HERRICK

"A story of present-day life, intensely real in its picture of a young architect
whose ideals in the beginning were, at their highest, √¶sthetic rather than
spiritual. It is an unusual novel of great interest." =London--Adventure=

BY JACK LONDON

"No reader of Jack London's stories need be told that this abounds with romantic
and dramatic incident." --_Los Angeles Tribune._

=London--Burning Daylight=

BY JACK LONDON

"Jack London has outdone himself in 'Burning Daylight.'" --_The Springfield
Union._

=Loti--Disenchanted=

BY PIERRE LOTI

"It gives a more graphic picture of the life of the rich Turkish women of to-day
than anything that has ever been written." --_Brooklyn Daily Eagle._

=Lucas--Mr. Ingleside=

BY E. V. LUCAS

"He displays himself as an intellectual and amusing observer of life's foibles
with a hero characterized by inimitable kindness and humor." --_The
Independent._

=Mason--The Four Feathers=

BY A. E. W. MASON

"'The Four Feathers' is a first-rate story, with more legitimate thrills than
any novel we have read in a long time." --_New York Press._

=Norris--Mother=

BY KATHLEEN NORRIS

"Worth its weight in gold." --_Catholic Columbian._

=Oxenham--The Long Road=

BY JOHN OXENHAM

"'The Long Road' is a tragic, heart-gripping story of Russian political and
social conditions." --_The Craftsman._

=Pryor--The Colonel's Story=

BY MRS. ROGER A. PRYOR

"The story is one in which the spirit of the Old South figures largely;
adventure and romance have their play and carry the plot to a satisfying end."
=Remington--Ermine of the Yellowstone=

BY FREDERIC REMINGTON

"A very original and remarkable novel wonderful in its vigor and freshness."
=Roberts--Kings in Exile=

BY CHARLES G. D. ROBERTS

"The author catches the spirit of forest and sea life, and the reader comes to
have a personal love and knowledge of our animal friends." --_Boston Globe._

=Robins--The Convert=

BY ELIZABETH ROBINS

"'The Convert' devotes itself to the exploitation of the recent suffragist
movement in England. It is a book not easily forgotten, by any thoughtful
reader." --_Chicago Evening Post._

=Robins--A Dark Lantern=

BY ELIZABETH ROBINS

A powerful and striking novel, English in scene, which takes an essentially
modern view of society and of certain dramatic situations. =Ward--David Grieve=

BY MRS. HUMPHREY WARD

"A perfect picture of life, remarkable for its humor and extraordinary success
at character analysis." =Wells--The Wheels of Chance=

BY H. G. WELLS

"Mr. Wells is beyond question the most plausible romancer of the time." --_The
New York Tribune._

THE MACMILLAN JUVENILE LIBRARY

This collection of juvenile books contains works of standard quality, on a
variety of subjects--history, biography, fiction, science, and poetry--carefully
chosen to meet the needs and interests of both boys and girls. =_Each volume,
cloth, 12mo, 50 cents net; postage, 10 cents extra_=

=Altsheler--The Horsemen of the Plains=

BY JOSEPH A. ALTSHELER

"A story of the West, of Indians, of scouts, trappers, fur traders, and, in
short, of everything that is dear to the imagination of a healthy American boy."
--_New York Sun._

=Bacon--While Caroline Was Growing=

BY JOSEPHINE DASKAM BACON

"Only a genuine lover of children, and a keenly sympathetic observer of human
nature, could have given us a book as this." --_Boston Herald._

=Carroll--Alice's Adventures, and Through the Looking Glass=

BY LEWIS CARROLL

"One of the immortal books for children." =Dix--A Little Captive Lad=

BY MARIE BEULAH DIX

"The human interest is strong, and children are sure to like it." --_Washington
Times._

=Greene--Pickett's Gap=

BY HOMER GREENE

"The story presents a picture of truth and honor that cannot fail to have a
vivid impression upon the reader." --_Toledo Blade._

=Lucas--Slowcoach=

BY E. V. LUCAS

"The record of an English family's coaching tour in a great old-fashioned wagon.
A charming narrative, as quaint and original as its name." --_Booknews Monthly._

=Mabie--Book of Christmas=

BY H. W. MABIE

"A beautiful collection of Christmas verse and prose in which all the old
favorites will be found in an artistic setting." --_The St. Louis Mirror._

=Major--The Bears of Blue River=

BY CHARLES MAJOR

"An exciting story with all the thrills the title implies." =Major--Uncle Tom
Andy Bill=

BY CHARLES MAJOR

"A stirring story full of bears, Indians, and hidden treasures." --_Cleveland
Leader._

=Nesbit--The Railway Children=

BY E. NESBIT

"A delightful story revealing the author's intimate knowledge of juvenile ways."
--_The Nation._

=Whyte--The Story Book Girls=

BY CHRISTINA G. WHYTE

"A book that all girls will read with delight--a sweet, wholesome story of girl
life." =Wright--Dream Fox Story Book=

BY MABEL OSGOOD WRIGHT

"The whole book is delicious with its wise and kindly humor, its just
perspective of the true value of things." =Wright--Aunt Jimmy's Will=

BY MABEL OSGOOD WRIGHT

"Barbara has written no more delightful book than this." Transcriber's Note

Apparent printer's errors have been retained, unless stated below. Page numbers
cited in illustration captions refer to their original placement in the text.
Illustrations have been moved near their mention in the text. "_" surrounding
text represents italics. "=" surrounding text represents bold. Punctuation,
capitalization, accents and formatting markup have been made consistent. Page
34, "Ba-chua-hish-a" changed to "Ba-cher-hish-a" for consistency. (Ba-cher-
hish-a sobbed and wailed all night in her lodge, while the foster-father walked
outside, speculating endlessly with his friends.) Page 94, "trial" changed to
"trail". (Now we must blind our trail; their scouts will find it in the
morning.) Page 5 of the Advertisements, "These" changed to "There". (There is
interwoven with it a play of mild philosophy and of pointed wit.) Page 12 of the
Advertisements, "JOHN" changed to "FREDERIC". (BY FREDERIC REMINGTON)

Page 14 of the Advertisements has been left as originally published. The
accompanying comment for "Aunt Jimmy's Will" by Mabel Osgood Wright has been
left to read: "Barbara has written no more delightful book than this."