CHAPTER I

YOUNG VAN ENGAGES A COOK

The S. & W. was hoping some day to build a large station with a steel and glass
trainshed at Sherman. Indeed, a side elevation of the structure, drawn to scale
and framed in black walnut, had hung for a number of years in the private
office, away down east, of President Daniel De Reamer. But that was to come in
the day when Sherman should be a metropolis; at present the steel of which it
was to be constructed still lay deep in the earth, unblasted, unsmelted, and
unconverted; and the long, very dirty train which, at the time this narrative
opens, was waiting to begin its westward journey, lay exposed to the rays of
what promised to be, by noon, the hottest sun the spring had so far known. The
cars were of an old, ill-ventilated sort, and the laborers, who were packed
within them like cattle in a box-car, had shed coats and even shirts, and now
sat back, and gasped and grumbled and fanned themselves with their caps, and
steadily lost interest in life. Apparently there was some uncertainty back in
the office of the superintendent. A red-faced man, with a handkerchief around
his neck, ran out with an order; whereupon an engine backed in, coupled up to
the first car, and whistled impatiently. But they did not go. Half an hour
passed, and the red-faced man ran out again, and the engine uncoupled, snorted,
rang its bell, and disappeared whence it had come. At length two men--Peet, the
superintendent, and Tiffany, chief engineer of the railroad--walked down the
platform together, and addressed a stocky man with a close-cut gray mustache and
a fixed frown, who stood beside the rear car. “Peet says he can’t wait any
longer, Mr. Vandervelt,” said Tiffany. “Can’t help that,” replied Vandervelt.
“But you’ve got to help it!” cried Peet. “What are you waiting for, anyway?”

“If you think we’re starting without Paul Carhart, you’re mistaken.”

“Carhart! Who is Carhart?”

“That’s all right,” Tiffany put in. “He’s in charge of the construction.”

“I don’t care what he is! This train--”

He was interrupted by a sudden uproar in the car just ahead. A number of
Italians had chosen to enliven the occasion by attacking the Mexicans, some of
whom had unavoidably been assigned to this car. Vandervelt left the railroad men
without a word, bounded up the car steps, and plunged through the door. The
confusion continued for a moment, then died down. Another moment, and Vandervelt
reappeared on the platform. Meanwhile Tiffany was talking to the superintendent.
“You’ve simply got to wait, Peet,” said he. “The old man says that Carhart must
have a free hand. If he’s late, there’s a reason for it.”

“The old man didn’t say that to me,” growled Peet; but he waited. *       *
*       *       *

It would perhaps be difficult to find, in the history of American enterprise, an
undertaking which demanded greater promptness in execution than the present one;
yet, absurdly enough, the cause of the delay was a person so insignificant that,
even for the purposes of this narrative, his name hardly matters. The name
happened to be, however, Purple Finn, and he had been engaged for chief cook to
the first division. There was but one real hotel in the “city,” which is to be
known here as Sherman, the half-dozen other places that bore the title of hotel
being rather in the nature of a side line to the saloon and gambling industry.
At this one, which was indicated by a projecting sign and the words “Eagle,
House,” Carhart and his engineers were stopping. “The Comma House,” as the
instrument men and stake men had promptly dubbed it, was not very large and not
very clean, and the “razor back” hogs and their progeny had a way of sleeping in
rows on and about the low piazza. But it was, nevertheless, the best hotel in
that particular part of the Southwest. Finn, on the other hand, made his
headquarters at one of the half dozen, that one which was known to the submerged
seven-eighths as “Murphy’s.” That Finn should be an enthusiastic patron of the
poor man’s club was not surprising, considering that he was an Irish plainsman
of a culinary turn, and considering, too, that he was now winding up one of
those periods between jobs, which begin in spacious hilarity and conclude with a
taste of ashes in the mouth. It was late afternoon. The chief was sitting in his
room, before a table which was piled high with maps, blue-prints, invoices, and
letters. All day long he had been sitting at this table, going over the details
of the work in hand. Old Vandervelt had reported that the rails and bolts and
ties and other necessaries were on the cars; Flint and Scribner had reported for
their divisions; the statements of the various railroad officials had been
examined, to make sure that no details were overlooked, for these would, sooner
or later, bob up in the form of misunderstandings; the thousand and one things
which must be considered before the expedition should take the plunge into the
desert had apparently been disposed of. And finally, when the large clock down
in the office was announcing, with a preliminary rattle and click, that it
intended very shortly to strike the half-hour between five and six, the chief
pushed back his chair and looked up at his engineers, who were seated about him
--Old Van before him on a trunk; Scribner and Young Van beside him on the bed;
John Flint, a thin, sallow man, astride the other chair, and Haddon on the floor
with his back against the wall. “All accounted for, Paul, I guess,” said Flint.
Carhart replied with a question, “How about those iron rods, John?”

“All checked off and packed on the train.”

“Did you accept Doble and Dean’s estimate for your oats?”

“Not much. Cut it down a third. It was altogether too much to carry. You see, I
shall be only thirty-odd miles from Red Hills, once I get out there, and I don’t
look for any trouble keeping in touch.”

“It’s just as well,” said Carhart. “The less you carry, the more room for us.”

“Did those pots and kettles come, Gus?” Carhart asked, turning to the younger
Vandervelt, who was to act as his secretary and general assistant. “Yes; just
before noon. They had been carried on to Paradise by mistake. I got them right
aboard.”

“And you were going to keep an eye on that cook. Where is he?”

Young Van hesitated, and an expression of chagrin came into his face. “I’ll look
him up. He promised me last night that he wouldn’t touch another drop.”

“Well--get your hands on him, and don’t let go again.”

Young Van left the room, and as he drew the door to after him he could hear the
chief saying: “Haddon, I wish you would find Tiffany and remind him that I’m
counting on his getting around early to-night. I’m not altogether satisfied with
their scheme for supplying us.” And hearing this, he was more than ever
conscious of his own small part in this undertaking, and more than ever
chagrined that he should prove unequal to the very small matter of keeping an
eye on the cook. At least, it seemed a small matter, in view of the hundreds of
problems concerning men and things which Paul Carhart was solving on this day.
The barkeeper at Murphy’s, who served also in the capacity of night clerk,
proved secretive on the subject of Purple Finn--hadn’t seen him all day--didn’t
know when he would be in. The young engineer thought he had better sit down to
digest the situation. This suggested supper, and he ordered the best of Murphy’s
fare, and ate slowly and pondered. Seven o’clock came, but brought no hint of
the cook’s whereabouts. Young Van gathered from the barroom talk that a big
outfit had come into town from Paradise within the past hour or so, and
incidentally that one of the outfit, Jack Flagg, was on the warpath--whoever
Jack Flagg might be. As he sat in a rear corner, watching, with an assumption of
carelessness, the loafers and plainsmen and gamblers who were passing in and
out, or were, like himself, sitting at the round tables, it occurred to him to
go up to Finn’s room. He knew, from former calls, where it was. But he learned
nothing more than that the cook’s door was ajar, and that a half-packed valise
lay open on the bed. At half-past ten, after a tour of the most likely haunts,
Young Van returned to Murphy’s and resumed his seat in the rear corner. He had
no notion of returning to the Eagle House without the cook. It was now close on
the hour when Sherman was used to rouse itself for the revelry of the night, and
that Finn would take some part in this revelry, and that he would, sooner or
later, reappear at his favorite hostelry, seemed probable. The lamps in this
room were suspended from the ceiling at such a height that their light entered
the eye at the hypnotic angle; and so it was not long before Young Van, weary
from the strain of the week, began to nod. The bar with its line of booted
figures, and the quartets of card-players, and the one waiter moving about in
his spotted white apron, were beginning to blur and run together. The clink of
glasses and the laughter came to his ears as if from a great distance. Once he
nearly recovered his faculties. A group of new arrivals were looking toward his
corner. “Waiting for Purple Finn, eh?” said one. “Well, I guess he’s got a nice
long wait in front of him, poor fool!” Then they all laughed. And Young Van
himself, with half-open eyes, had to smile over the poor fool in the corner who
was waiting for Purple Finn. “I hear Jack Flagg’s in town,” said the barkeeper.
“I wonder if he is!” replied the first speaker. “I wonder if Jack Flagg is in
town!” Again they laughed. And again Young Van smiled. How odd that Jack Flagg
should be in town! He was awakened by a sound of hammering. There was little
change in the room: the card games were going steadily on; the bar still had its
line of thirsty plainsmen; two men were wrangling in a corner. Then he made out
a group of newcomers who were tacking a placard to the wall, and chuckling as
they did so. And now, for the first time, Young Van became conscious that he was
no longer alone at his table. Opposite him, smiling genially, and returning his
gaze with benevolent watery eyes, sat a big Texan. This individual wore his
cowboy hat on the back of his head, and made no effort to conceal the two
revolvers and the knife at his belt. “D’ye know,” said the Texan, “I like you.
What’s your name?”

“Vandervelt. What is yours?”

“Charlie--that’s my name.” Then his smile faded, and he shook his head. “But you
won’t find Purple Finn here.”

“Why not?”

“Ain’t that funny! You don’t know ’bout Purple Finn. It’s b’cause Jack Flagg’s
in town. They ain’t friendly--I know Jack Flagg. I’ve been workin’ with ’im--
down Paradise way.”

Young Van was nearly awake. “You don’t happen to be a cook, do you?” said he.
“Yes,” Charlie replied dreamily. “I’m a cook. But I’m nothin’ to Jack Flagg.
He’s won’erful--won’erful!”

The engineer got up to stretch his legs, and incidentally took occasion to read
the placard. It ran as follows:--

PURPLE FINN: I heard you was looking for me. Well, I’ll be     around to
Murphy’s to-morrow because I want to tell you you’re     talking too much. JACK
FLAGG. He returned to his table, and amused himself listening to Charlie’s talk.
Then he looked at his watch and found that it was nearly two hours after
midnight. Within six or seven hours the train would be starting. He wondered
what his friends would say if they could see him. He was afraid that if he
should drop off again, he might sleep too late, and so he determined to keep
awake. He communicated this plan to Charlie, who nodded approval. But he was not
equal to it. Within a very short time his chin was reposing on his breast, and
Charlie was looking at him and chuckling. “Awful good joke,” murmured Charlie.
Young Van fell to dreaming. He thought that the doors suddenly swung in, and
that Purple Finn himself entered the room. The noise seemed, at the instant, to
die down; the barkeeper paused and gazed; the card-players turned and sat
motionless in their chairs. Finn, thought Young Van, nodded in a general way,
and laughed, and his laugh had no humor in it. He walked toward the bar, but
halfway his roving eye rested on the placard, and he stood motionless. The blue
tobacco haze curled around him and dimmed the outlines of his figure. In the
dream he seemed to grow a little smaller while he stood there. Then he walked
across and read the placard, taking a long time about it, as if he found it
difficult to grasp the meaning. When he finally turned and faced the crowd, his
expression was weak and uncertain. He seemed about to say something but whatever
it was he wished to say, the words did not come. Instead, he walked to the bar,
ordered a drink, put it down with a shaking hand, and left the room as he had
entered it, silently. The door swung shut, and somebody laughed; then all
returned to their cards. When Young Van awoke, the room was flooded with
sunlight from the side windows. He straightened up in his chair and looked
around. Charlie was still at the table. Here and there along the side bench men
were sleeping. The card-players, with seamed faces and cold eyes, were still at
their business. A new set of players had come in, one of them a giant of a man,
dressed like a cowboy, with a hard eye, a heavy mustache, and a tuft of hair
below his under lip. The engineer was almost afraid to look at his watch. It was
half-past eight. He turned to the still smiling Charlie. “See here,” he said,
“did Finn come in here last night?”

Charlie nodded. “You didn’t wake up.”

Young Van almost groaned aloud. “Where is he? Where did he go?”

“Listen to ’im!” Charlie was indicating a lank stranger who was leaning on the
bar, and talking to a dozen men who had gathered about him. “... And when I got
off the train,” the lank man was saying, “there was Purple Finn a-standin’ on
the platform. I thought he looked sort o’ caved in. ‘Hello, Purple,’ says I,
‘what you doin’ up so early in the mornin’?’ But he never answers a word; just
climbs on the train and sits down in the smoker and looks out the window as if
he thought somebody was after ’im.”

A laugh went up at this, and all the group turned and looked at the big man with
the mustache. But this individual went on fingering his cards without the twitch
of an eyelid. “So Finn has left town,” said Young Van, addressing his vis-a-vis.
“Yes,” Charlie replied humorously. “He had to see a man down to Paradise.”

“Who is that big man over there?”

“Him?” Charlie’s voice dropped. “Why, that’s him--Jack Flagg.”

“Did you tell me last night that he was a cook?”

Charlie nodded. “He’s won’erful--won’erful! I know ’im. I’ve been workin’--”

Young Van pushed back his chair and got up. For a moment he stood looking at the
forbidding face and mighty frame of the man who was now the central figure in
the room; then he crossed over and touched him on the shoulder. “How are you?”
said he, painfully conscious, as every waking eye in the room was turned on him,
that he did not know how to talk to these men. Flagg looked up. “They tell me
you can cook,” said the engineer. “What’s that to you?” said Flagg. “Do you want
a job?”

“This is Mr. Van’ervelt,” put in Charlie, who had followed; “Mr. Van’ervelt, of
the railroad.”

“What’ll you pay?” asked Flagg. Young Van named the amount. “When do you want to
start?”

“Now.”

“Charlie,”--Flagg was sweeping in a heap of chips,--“go down to Jim’s and get my
things and fetch ’em here.” And with this he turned back to the game. Young Van
looked uncertainly at Charlie, whose condition was hardly such that he could be
trusted to make the trip without a series of stops in the numerous havens of
refuge along the way. The thing to do was perhaps to go with him; at any rate,
that is what Young Van did. “Won’erful man!” murmured Charlie, when they reached
the sidewalk. Then, “Say, Mr. Van’ervelt, come over here a minute--jus’ over to
Bill White’s. Wanna see a man,--jus’ minute.”

But Young Van was not in a tolerant mood. “Stiffen up, Charlie,” he said
sharply. “No more of this sort of thing--not if you’re going with us.”

Charlie was meekly obedient, and even tried to hurry; but at the best it took
considerable time to get together the clothing of the cook and his assistant,
pay their bill, and return to Murphy’s. This much accomplished, it became
necessary to use some tact with Flagg, who was bent on winning a little more
before stopping. And as Flagg could easily have tossed the engineer out of the
window, and had, besides, the strategical advantage, Young Van was unable to see
much choice for himself in the matter. And standing there, waiting on the
pleasure of his cook, he passed the time in wondering where he had made his
mistake. Paul Carhart, or John Flint, he thought, would never have found it
necessary to take the undignified measures to which he had been reduced. But
what was the difference? What would they have done? In trying to answer these
questions he hit on every reason but the right one. He forgot that he was a
young man. *       *       *       *       *

Carhart and Flint, after waiting a long time at the “Eagle, House,” went down to
the station, arriving there some time after the outburst of Peet, which was
noted at the beginning of the chapter. Tiffany saw them coming, and communicated
the news to the superintendent. The engine reappeared, and again coupled up to
the forward car. “Everything all right?” called Tiffany. “No,” replied Carhart;
“don’t start yet.”

The three walked on and joined Old Van by the steps of the rear car. “Well,”
growled the veteran, “how much longer are we going to wait, Paul?”

“Until Gus comes.”

“Gus? I thought he was aboard here.”

“No,” said John Flint, with a wink; “he went out last night to see the wheels go
round. Here he comes now. But what in--”

They all gazed without a word. Three men were walking abreast down the platform,
Gus Vandervelt, with a white face and ringed eyes, in the middle. The youngest
engineer of the outfit was not a small man, but between the two cooks he looked
like a child. “Would you look at that!” said Flint, at length. “Neither of those
two Jesse Jameses will ever see six-foot-three again. Makes Gus look like a nick
in a wall.”

Young Van met Carhart’s questioning gaze almost defiantly. “The cook,” he said,
indicating Flagg. “All right. Get aboard.”

“Rear car,” cried Old Van, who had charge of the arrangements on the train. This
time the bell did not ring in vain. The train moved slowly out toward the
unpeopled West, and the engineers threw off coats and collars, and made
themselves as nearly comfortable as they could under the circumstances. A few
minutes after the start Paul Carhart, who was writing a letter in pencil, looked
up and saw Young Van beside him, and tried not to smile at his sorry appearance.
“I think I owe you an explanation, Mr. Carhart,” began the young man, in
embarrassment which took the form of stiffness. But the chief shook his head.
“I’m not asking any questions, Gus,” he replied. Then the smile escaped him, and
he turned it off by adding, “I’m writing to Mrs. Carhart.” He held up the letter
and glanced over the first few lines with a twinkle in his eyes. “I was just
telling her,” he went on, “that the cook problem in Chicago is in its infancy.”

CHAPTER II

WHERE THE MONEY CAME FROM

Doubtless there were official persons to be found at the time of this narrative
--which is a matter of some thirty years back--who would have insisted that the
letters “S. & W.” meant “Sherman and Western.” But every one who lived within
two days’ ride of the track knew that the real name of the road was the “Shaky
and Windy.”

Shaky the “S. & W.” certainly was--physically, and, if newspaper gossip and
apparent facts were to be trusted, financially. The rails weighed thirty-five
pounds to the yard, and had been laid in scallops, with high centres and low
joints,--“sight along the rails and it looks like a washboard,” said John Flint,
describing it. For ballast the clay and sand of the region were used. And, as
for the financial part, everybody knew that old De Reamer had been forced to
abandon the construction work on the Red Hills extension, after building fully
five-sixths of the distance. The hard times had, of course, something to do with
that,--roads were going under all through the West; receiverships were quite the
common thing,--but De Reamer and the S. & W. did not seem to revive so quickly
as certain other lines. This was the more singular in that the S. & W.,
extending as it did from the Sabine country to the Staked Plains, really
justified the popular remark that “the Shaky and Windy began in a swamp and
ended in a desert.” On the face of things, without the Red Hills connection with
the bigger C. & S. C., and without an eastern connection with one of the New
Orleans or St. Louis lines, the road was an absurdity. Then, only a few months
before the time of our narrative, the railroad world began to wake up. Commodore
Durfee, one of “the big fellows,” surprised the Southwest by buying in the H. D.
& W. (which meant, and will always mean, the High, Dry, and Wobbly). The
surprise was greater when the Commodore began building southwestward, in the
general direction of Red Hills. As usual when the big men are playing for
position, the public and the wise-acres, even Wall Street, were mystified. For
the S. & W. was so obviously the best and shortest eastern connection for the C.
& S. C.,--the H. D. & W. would so plainly be a differential line,--that it was
hard to see what the Commodore was about. He had nothing to say to the
reporters. Old General Carrington, of the C. & S. C., the biggest and shrewdest
of them all, was also silent. And Daniel De Reamer couldn’t be seen at all. And
finally, by way of a wind-up to the first skirmish of the picturesque war in
which our engineers were soon to find themselves taking part, there was a
western breeze and a flurry of dust in Wall Street. Somebody was fighting. S. &
W. shares ran up in a day from twenty-two to forty-six, and, which was more
astonishing, sold at that figure for another day before dropping. Other
mysterious things were going on. Suddenly De Reamer reappeared in the Southwest,
and that most welcome sign of vitality, money,--red gold corpuscles,--began to
flow through the arteries of the S. & W. “system.” The construction work started
up, on rush orders. Paul Carhart was specially engaged to take out a force and
complete the track--any sort of a track--to Red Hills. And as he preferred not
to take this rush work through very difficult country on any other terms, De
Reamer gave him something near a free hand,--ordered Chief Engineer Tiffany to
let him alone, beyond giving every assistance in getting material to the front,
and accepting the track for the company as fast as it was laid. And as Tiffany
was not at all a bad fellow, and had admired Carhart’s part in the Rio Grande
fight (though he would have managed some things differently, not to say better,
himself), the two engineers seemed likely to get on very well. Carhart’s three
trains would hardly get over the five hundred miles which lay between Sherman
and the end of the track in less than twenty-seven or twenty-eight hours. “The
private car,” as the boys called it, was of an old type even for those days, and
was very uncomfortable. Everybody, from the chief down, had shed coat and
waistcoat before the ragged skyline of Sherman slipped out of view behind the
yellow pine trees. The car swayed and lurched so violently that it was
impossible to stand in the aisle without support. As the hours dragged by,
several of the party curled up on the hard seats and tried to sleep. The
instrument and rod and stake men and the pile inspectors, mostly young fellows
recently out of college or technical institute, got together at one end of the
car and sang college songs. Carhart was sitting back, his feet up on the
opposite seat, watching for the pines to thin out, and thinking of the endless
gray chaparral and sage-brush which they would find about them in the morning,--
if the train didn’t break down,--when he saw Tiffany’s big person balancing down
the aisle toward him. Tiffany had been quiet a long time; now he had a story in
his eye. “Well,” he said, as he slid down beside Carhart, “I knew the old
gentleman would pull it off in time, but I never supposed he could make the
Commodore pay the bills.”

Carhart glanced up inquiringly. “Didn’t you hear about it? Well, say! I happen
to know that a month ago Mr. De Reamer actually didn’t have the money to carry
this work through. Even when Commodore Durfee started building for Red Hills, he
didn’t know which way to turn. The Commodore, you know, hadn’t any notion of
stopping with the H.D.& W.”

“No,” said Carhart, “I didn’t suppose he had.”

“He was after us, too--wanted to do the same as he did with the High and Dry,
corner the stock.” Tiffany chuckled. “But he knew he’d have to corner Daniel De
Reamer first. If he didn’t, the old gentleman would manufacture shares by the
hundred thousand and pump ’em right into him. There’s the Paradise Southern,--
that’s been a regular fountain of stock. You knew about that.”

Carhart shook his head. “We passed through Paradise this noon.”

“Yes, I know the line. It runs down from Paradise to Total Wreck. But I didn’t
know it had anything to do with S. & W. capital stock.”

“Didn’t, eh?” chuckled Tiffany. “Mr. De Reamer and Mr. Chambers own it, you
know, and they’re directors in both lines. The old game was for them, as P. S.
directors, to lease the short line to themselves as S. & W. directors. Then the
S.& W. directors pay the P. S. directors--only they’re it both ways--in S. & W.
stock. Don’t you see? And it’s only one of a dozen schemes. The old gentleman’s
always ready for S. & W. buyers.”

Carhart smiled. The car lurched and shivered. Such air as came in through the
open door and windows was tainted with the gases of the locomotive, and with the
mingled odors of the densely packed laborers in the cars ahead. “That’s really
the only reason they’ve kept up the Paradise Southern--for there isn’t any
business on the line. Well, as I was saying, the Commodore knew that the first
thing he had to do was corner Mr. De Reamer, and keep him from creating stock.
So he came down on him all at once, with a heap of injunctions and court orders.
He did it thorough: restrained the S. & W. board from issuing any more stock, or
from completing any of the transactions on hand, and temporarily suspended the
old gentleman and Mr. Chambers, pending an investigation of their accounts, and
ordered ’em to return to the treasury of the company the seventy thousand shares
they created last year. There was a lot more, but that’s the gist of it. He did
it through Waring and his other minority directors on the board. And right at
the start, you see, when he began to buy, he made S. & W. stock so scarce that
the price shot up.”

“Seems as if he had sewed up the S. & W. pretty tight,” observed Carhart.
“Didn’t it, though? But the Commodore didn’t know the old gentleman as well as
he thought. Mr. De Reamer and Mr. Chambers got another judge to issue orders for
them to do everything the Commodore’s judge forbid--tangled it all up so that
everything they did or didn’t do, they’d be disobeying somebody, and leaving it
for the judges to settle among themselves. Then they issued ten million dollars
in convertible bonds to a dummy, representing themselves, turned ’em right into
stock,--and tangled that transaction up so nobody in earth or heaven will ever
know just exactly _what_ was done,--and sold ‘most seventy thousand shares of it
to Commodore Durfee before he had a glimmer of where it was coming from. And
then it was too late for him to stop buying, so he had to take in the whole
hundred thousand shares. I heard Mr. Chambers say that when the Commodore found
’em out, he was so mad he couldn’t talk,--stormed stormed around his office
trying to curse Daniel De Reamer, but he couldn’t even swear intelligent.”

“So Mr. De Reamer beat him,” said Carhart. “Beat him?--I wonder--”

“But that’s not all, surely. Commodore Durfee isn’t the man to swallow that.”

“He _had_ to swallow it.--Oh, he did kick up some fuss, but it didn’t do him any
good. His judge tried to jerk up our people for contempt, but they were warned
and got out of Mr. De Reamer’s Broad Street office, and over into New Jersey
with all the documents and money.” Tiffany’s good-humored eyes lighted up as his
mind dwelt on the fight. Never was there a more loyal railroad man than this
one. Daniel De Reamer was his king, and his king could do no wrong. “Not that
they didn’t have some excitement getting away,” he continued. “They say,--mind,
I don’t know this, but _they_ say that Mr. De Reamer’s secretary, young
Crittenden, crossed the ferry in a cab with four million five hundred thousand
dollars _in bills_--just tied up rough in bundles so they could be thrown
around. And there you are,--Commodore Durfee is paying for this extension that’s
going to cut him out of the C. & S. C. through business. The money and papers
are out of his reach. The judges are fighting among themselves, and will be
doing well if they ever come to a settlement. And now if that ain’t pretty slick
business, I’d like to know what the word ‘slick’ means.”

Carhart almost laughed aloud. He turned and looked out the window for a few
moments. Finally he said, “If you have that straight, Tiffany, it’s undoubtedly
the worst defeat Commodore Durfee ever had. But don’t make the mistake of
thinking that the S. & W. is through with him.”

“Maybe not,” Tiffany replied, “but I’ll bet proper on the old gentleman.”

Carhart’s position as the engineer in charge of a thousand and more men would be
not unlike that of a military commander who finds himself dependent for
subsistence on five hundred miles of what Scribner called “very sketchy” single
track. It would be more serious; for not only must food, and in the desert,
water, be brought out over the line, but also the vast quantity of material
needed in the work. It would be the business of Peet, as the working head of the
operating department, to deliver the material from day to day, and week to week,
at the end of the last completed section, where the working train would be made
up each night for the construction work of the following day. If the existing
track was sketchy, the new track would be worse. Everything was to be sacrificed
to speed. The few bridges were to be thrown up hastily in the form of primitive
wooden trestles. There would be no masonry, excepting the abutments of the La
Paz bridge,--which masonry, or rather the stone for it, was about the only
material they would find at hand. All the timber, even to the cross ties, would
have to be shipped forward from the long-leaf-pine forests of eastern Texas and
western Louisiana. Ordinarily, Carhart would not have relished undertaking such
a hasty job; but in this case there were compensations. When he had first looked
over the location maps, in Daniel De Reamer’s New York office, his quiet eyes
had danced behind their spectacles; for it promised to be pretty work, in which
a man could use his imagination. There was the bridge over the La Paz River, for
instance. He should have to send a man out there with a long wagon train of
materials, and with orders to have the bridge ready when the track should reach
the river. He knew just the man--John B. Flint, who built the Desplaines bridge
for the three I’s. He had not heard from John since the doctors had condemned
his lungs, and ordered him to a sanatorium in the Adirondacks, and John had
compromised by going West, and hanging that very difficult bridge between the
walls of Brilliant Gorge in the Sierras. Carhart was not sure that he was still
among the living; but a few searching telegrams brought out a characteristic
message from John himself, to the effect that he was very much alive, and was
ready to bridge the Grand Cañon of the Colorado at a word from Paul Carhart.
Then there was always to be considered the broad outline of the situation as it
was generally understood in the railway world. Details apart, it was known that
Commodore Durfee and Daniel De Reamer were fighting for that through connection,
and that old General Carrington,--czar of the C. & S. C., holder of one and
owner of several other seats in the Senate of these United States, chairman of
the National Committee of his party,--that General Carrington was sitting on the
piazza of his country house in California, smoking good cigars and talking horse
and waiting to see whether he should gobble Durfee or De Reamer, or both of
them. For the general, too, was represented on the directorate of the Sherman
and Western; and it was an open question whether his minority directors would
continue to support the De Reamer interests or would be ordered to ally
themselves with the Durfee men. Either way, there would be no sentiment wasted.
But it seemed to Carhart that so long as De Reamer should be able to hold up his
head in the fight General Carrington would probably stand behind him. Commodore
Durfee was too big in the East to be encouraged in the West. And yet--there was
no telling. It was very pretty indeed. Carhart was a quiet man, given more to
study than to speech; but he liked pretty things. CHAPTER III

AT MR. CARHART’S CAMP

“It takes an Irishman, a nigger, and a mule to build a railroad,” said Tiffany.
With Young Van, he was standing in front of the headquarters tent, which,
together with the office tent for the first division, where Old Van would hold
forth, and the living and mess tents for the engineers, was pitched on a knoll
at a little distance from the track. “The mule,” he continued, “will do the
work, the nigger will drive the mule, and the Irishman’ll boss ’em both.”

Young Van, keyed up by this sudden plunge into frontier work, was only half
listening to the flow of good-natured comment and reminiscence from the chief
engineer at his elbow. He was looking at the steam-shrouded locomotive, and at
the long line of cars stringing off in perspective behind it. Wagons were backed
in against this and the few other trains which had come in during the day; other
wagons were crawling about the track almost as far as he could see through the
steam and the dust. Men on horseback--picturesque figures in wide-brimmed hats
and blue shirts and snug-fitting boots laced to the knee--were riding in and out
among the teams. The old track ended in the immediate foreground, and here old
Van was at work with his young surveyors, looking up the old stakes and driving
new ones to a line set by a solemn youngster with skinny hands and a long nose.
Everywhere was noise--a babel of it--and toil and a hearty sort of chaos. One
line of wagons--laden with scrapers, “slips” and “wheelers,” tents and camp
equipage, the timbers and machinery of a pile-driver, and a thousand and one
other things--was little by little extricating itself from the tangle, winding
slowly past head-quarters, and on toward the low-lying, blood-red sun. This was
the outfit of the second division, and Harry Scribner, riding a wiry black pony,
was leading it into corral on “mile two,” preparatory to a start in the early
morning. From the headquarters cook tent, behind the “office,” came savory
odors. Farther down the knoll, near the big “boarding house” tents, the giant
Flagg and the equally sturdy Charlie could be seen moving about a row of iron
kettles which were swinging over an open fire. The chaos about the trains was
straightening out, and the men were corralling the wagons, and unharnessing the
mules and horses. The sun slipped down behind the low western hills, leaving a
luminous memory in the far sky. In groups, and singly, the laborers--Mexicans,
Italians, Louisiana French, broken plainsmen from everywhere, and negroes--came
straggling by, their faces streaked with dust and sweat, the negroes laughing
and singing as they lounged and shuffled along. Carhart, who had been dividing
his attention between the unloading of the trains and the preparations of his
division engineers, came riding up the knoll on “Texas,” his compact little
roan, a horse he had ridden and boasted about in a quiet way for nearly four
years. John Flint, thin and stooping of body, with a scrawny red mustache and
high-pitched voice, soon rode in over the grade from the farther side of the
right of way, where he was packing up his outfit for the long haul to the La Paz
River. The instrument men and their assistants followed, one by one, and fell in
line at the tin wash-basin, all exuberant with banter and laughter and high-
spirited play. And at last the headquarters cook, a stout negro, came out in
front of the mess tent and beat his gong with mighty strokes; and Harry
Scribner, who was jogging back to camp from his corral, heard it, dug in his
spurs, and came up the long knoll on the gallop. There was no escaping the
joviality of this first evening meal in camp. In the morning the party would
break up. Scribner would ride ahead a dozen miles to make a division camp of his
own; John Flint would be pushing out there into the sunset for the better part
of a week, across the desert, through the gray hills, and down to the yellow La
Paz. The youngsters were shy at first; but after Tiffany had winked and said,
“It’ll never do to start this dry, boys,” and had produced a bottle from some
mysterious corner, they felt easier. Even Carhart, for the time, laid aside the
burden which, like Christian, he must carry for many days. A good many stories
were told, most of them by Tiffany, who had run the gamut of railroading, north,
south, east, and west. “That was a great time we had up at Pittsburgh,” said he,
“when I stole the gondola cars,”--he placed the accent on the _do_,--“best thing
I ever did. That was when I was on the Almighty and Great Windy that used to run
from Pittsburg up to the New York State line. I was acting as a sort of traffic
superintendent, among other things,--we had to do all sorts of work then; no
picking and choosing and no watching the clock for us.” He turned on the long-
nosed instrument man. “That was when you were just about a promising candidate
for long pants, my friend.”

“We had a new general manager--named MacBayne. He didn’t know anything about
railroading,--had been a telegraph operator and Durfee’s nephew,--yes, the same
old Commodore, it was,--and, getting boosted up quick, that way, he got into
that frame of mind where he wouldn’t ever have contradicted you if you’d said he
_was_ the Almighty and Great Windy. First thing he did was to put in a system of
bells to call us to his office,--but I didn’t care such a heap. He enjoyed it
so. He’d lean back and pull a little handle, and then be too busy to talk when
one of us came running in--loved to make us stand around a spell. Hadn’t but one
eye, MacBayne hadn’t, and you never could tell for downright certain who he was
swearing at. “The company had bought a little railroad, the P. G.--Pittsburg and
Gulf,--for four hundred and fifty thousand. Just about such a line as our
Paradise spur, only instead of the directors buying it personal, they’d bought
it for the company. “One day my little bell tinkled, and I got up and went into
the old man’s office. He was smoking a cigar and trying to look through a two-
foot wall into Herb Williams’s pickle factory. Pretty soon he swung his one good
eye around on me and looked at me sharp. ‘Hen,’ he said, ‘we’re in a fix. We
haven’t paid but two hundred thousand on the P.G.--and what’s more, that’s all
we can pay.’

“‘Well, sir,’ said I, ‘what’s the trouble?’ It’s funny--he’s always called me
Hen, and I’ve always called him sir and Mister MacBayne. He ain’t anybody to-
day, but if I went back to Pittsburg to-morrow and met him in Morrison’s place,
he’d say, ‘Well, Hen, how’re you making it?’ and I’d say, ‘Pretty well, Mister
MacBayne.’--Ain’t it funny? Can’t break away from it. “I’ve just had a wire from
Black,’ said he,--Black was our attorney up at Buffalo,--‘saying that the
sheriff of Erie County,’ over the line in New York State, ‘has attached all our
gon_do_la cars up there, and won’t release ’em until we pay up. What’ll we do?’

“‘Hum!’ said I. ‘We’ve got just a hundred and twenty gon_do_las in Buffalo to-
day.’ A hundred and twenty cars was a lot to us, you understand--just like it
would be to the S. & W. Imagine what would happen to you fellows out here if
Peet had that many cars taken away from him. So I thought a minute, and then I
said, ‘Has the sheriff chained ’em to the track, Mister MacBayne?’

“‘I don’t know about that,’ said he. “‘Well,’ said I, ‘don’t you think it would
be a good plan to find that out first thing?’

“He looked at me sharp, then he sort o’ grinned. ‘What’re you thinking about,
Hen?’ he asked. “I didn’t answer direct. ‘You find that out,’ I told him, ‘and
let me know what he says.’

“About an hour later the bell tinkle-winkled again. ‘No,’ he said, when I went
in his office, ‘they ain’t chained down--not yet, anyway. Now, what’ll we do?’

“‘Why don’t you go up there?’ said I. ‘Hook your car on to No. 5’--that was our
night express for Buffalo, a long string of oil and coal cars with a baggage
car, coach, and sleeper on the end of it. It ran over our line and into Buffalo
over the Southeastern. “‘All right, Hen,’ said he. ‘Will you go along?’

“‘Sure,’ I told him. “On our way out we picked up Charlie Greenman too. He was
superintendent of the State Line Division--tall, thin man, very nervous, Charlie
was. “Next morning, when we were sitting over our breakfast in the Swift House,
the old man turned his good eye on me and said, ‘Well, Hen, what next?’ I’d
brought him up there, you see, and now he was looking for results. “‘Well,’ said
I, speaking slow and sort of thinking it over, ‘look here, Mister MacBayne, why
don’t you get a horse and buggy and look around the city? They say it’s a pretty
place. Or you could pick up a boat, you and Charlie, and go sailing on Lake
Erie. Or you might run over and see the falls--Ever been there?’

“The old man was looking on both sides of me with those two eyes of his. ‘What
are you up to, Hen?’ he said. “‘Nothing,’ I answered, ‘not a thing. But say,
Mister MacBayne, I forgot to bring any money. Let me have a little, will you,--
about a hundred and fifty?’

“When I said that, the old man gulped, and looked almost scared. I saw then,
just what I’d suspected, that he wouldn’t be the least use to me. I’d ‘a’ done
better to have left him behind. ‘Why, yes, Hen,’ said he, ‘I can let you have
that!’ He went out, and pretty soon he came back with the money in a big roll of
small bills. “‘Well, good morning, gentlemen,’ said I. ‘I’ll see you at five
o’clock this afternoon.’

“I went right out to the Erie yards, where they were unloading twenty-two of our
coal cars. Jim Harvey was standing near by, and he gave me a queer look, and
asked me what I was doing in Buffalo. “‘Doing?’ said I, ‘I’m looking after my
cars. What did you suppose? And see here, Jim, while you were about it, don’t
you think you might have put ’em together. Here you’ve got twenty-two of ’em,
and there’s forty over at the Lake Shore, and a lot more in Chaplin’s yards?
There ain’t but one of me--however do you suppose I’m going to watch ’em all,
even see that the boys keep oil in the boxes?’ ‘I don’t know anything about
that,’ said he. “‘Well now, look here, Jim,’ said I, ‘how many more of these
cars have you got to unload?’ ‘Twelve,’ said he. ‘How soon can you get it done--
that’s my question?’ ‘Oh, I’ll finish it up to-morrow morning.’ ‘Well, now,
Jim,’ said I, ‘I want you to put on a couple of extra wagons and get these cars
emptied by five o’clock this afternoon. Then I want you to get all our cars
together over there in Chaplin’s yards, where I can keep an eye on ’em!’ ‘Oh,
see here,’ said he, ‘I can’t do that, Hen. The sheriff--’

“‘Damn the sheriff,’ said I. ‘I ain’t going to hurt the sheriff. What I want is
to get my cars together where I can know what’s being done to ’em.’

“Well, he didn’t want to do it, but some of the long green passed and then he
thought maybe he could fix me up. There was a lot of other things I had to do
that day--and a lot of other men to see. The despatcher for the Buffalo and
Southwestern was one of ’em. Then at five o’clock, or a little before, I floated
into the Swift House office and there were MacBayne and Charlie Greenman sitting
around waiting for me. The old man had his watch in his hand. Charlie was
walking up and down, very nervous. I came up sort of offhand and said:--

“‘Charlie, I want two of your biggest and strongest engines, and I want ’em up
in Chaplin’s yard as soon as you can get ’em there.’

“‘What,’ said he, ‘on a foreign road?’ ‘Yes,’ said I, offhand like. Then I
turned to the old man. ‘Now, Mister MacBayne,’ said I, ‘I want you to tell
Charlie here that when those engines pass out of his division, they come
absolutely under my control.’

“‘Oh, that’s all right, Hen,’ said Charlie, speaking up breathless. “‘Yes, I
know it is,’ said I, ‘but I want you to hear Mister MacBayne say it. Remember,
when those engines leave your division, they belong to me until I see fit to
bring ’em back.’

“The old man was looking queerer than ever. ‘See here, Hen,’ said he, ‘what
devilment are you up to, anyway?’

“‘Nothing at all,’ said I. ‘I just want two engines. You can’t run a railroad
without engines, Mister MacBayne.’

“‘Well,’ said he, then, ‘how about me--what do you want of me?’

“‘Why, I’ll tell you,’ said I. ‘Why don’t you hook your car on to No. 6 and go
back to Pittsburg to-night?’ You should have seen his good eye light up at that.
Getting out of the state suited him about as well as anything just then, and he
didn’t lose any time about it. When he had gone, Charlie said:--

“‘Now, Hen, for heaven’s sake, tell me what you’re up to?’

“‘Not a bit of it,’ said I. ‘I don’t see what business it is of yours. You
belong back on your division.’

“‘Well, I ain’t going,’ said he. ‘I’m going wherever you go to-night.’

“‘All right,’ said I; ‘I’m going to Shelby’s vaudeville.’

“That surprised him. But he didn’t say anything more. You remember old Shelby’s
show there. I always used to go when I was in Buffalo of an evening. “But about
11:30, when the show was over, Charlie began to get nervous again. ‘Well, Hen,’
he said, ‘where next?’

“‘I don’t know about you,’ said I, ‘but I’m going to stroll out to Chaplin’s
yard before I turn in, and take a look at our cars. You’d better go to bed.’

“‘Not a bit of it,’ he broke out. ‘I’m going with you.’

“‘All right,’ said I, ‘come along. It’s a fine night.’

“Well, gentlemen, when we got out to the yards, there were our cars in two long
lines on parallel tracks, seventy on one track and fifty on another--one thing
bothered me, they were broken in four places at street crossings--and on the two
next tracks beside them were Charlie’s two engines, steam up and headlights
lighted. And, say, you never saw anything quite like it! The boys they’d sent
with the engines weren’t anybody’s fools, and they had on about three hundred
pounds of steam apiece--blowing off there with a noise you could hear for a
mile, but the boys themselves weren’t saying a word; they were sitting around
smoking their pipes, quiet as seven Sabbaths. “When Charlie saw this laid out
right before his eyes, he took frightened all of a sudden--his knees were going
like that. He grabbed my arm and pulled me back into the shadow. “‘Hen, for
heaven’s sake, let’s get out of here quick. This means the penitentiary.’

“‘You can go,’ said I. ‘I didn’t invite you to the party.’

“Right beside the tracks there was a watch-box, shut up as if there wasn’t
anybody in it, but I could see the light coming out at the top. It was going to
be ticklish business, I knew that. We had to haul out over a drawbridge, for one
thing, to get out of the yards, and then whistle for the switch over to the
southwestern tracks. Had to use the signals of the other roads, too. But I was
in for it. “‘Well, Hen,’ said Charlie, ‘if you’re going to do it, what in ----
are you standing around for now?’

“‘Got to wait for the Lake Shore Express to go through,’ said I. “Charlie sort
of groaned at this and for an hour we sat there and waited. I tried to talk
about the oil explosion down by Titusville, but Charlie, somehow, wasn’t
interested. All the while those engines were blowing off tremendous, and the
crews were sitting around just smoking steady. “Finally, at one o’clock, I went
over to the engineer of the first engine. ‘How many men have you got?’ said I.
“‘Four brakemen,’ he said, ‘each of us.’

“‘All right,’ said I. ‘I guess I don’t need to tell you what to do.’

“They all heard me, and say, you ought to have seen them jump up. The engineer
was up and on his engine before I got through talking; and he just went a-flying
down the yard, whistling for the switch. The four brakemen ran back along the
fifty-car string. You see they had to couple up at those four crossings and that
was the part I didn’t like a bit. But I couldn’t help it. The engineer came
a-backing down very rapid, and bumped that front car as if he wanted to
telescope it. “Well, sir, they did it--coupled up, link and pin. The engineer
was leaning ‘way out the window, and he didn’t wait very long after getting the
signal, before he was a-hiking it down the yard, tooting his whistle for the
draw. Heaven only knows what might have happened, but nothing did. He got over
the draw all right with his fifty cars going clickety--clickety--clickety behind
him, and then I could see his rear lights and hear him whistling for the switch
over to the southwestern tracks. Then I gave the signal for the other engine.
Charlie, all this time, was getting worse and worse. He was leaning up against
me now, just naturally hanging on to me, looking like a somnambulist. You could
hear his knees batting each other. And the engineer of that second engine turned
out to be in the same fix. He was so excited he never waited for the signal that
the cars were all coupled up, and he started up with a terrific toot of his
whistle and a yank on the couplings, leaving thirty cars and one brakeman
behind. But I knew it would never do to call him back. “Well, now, here is where
it happened. That whistle was enough to wake the sleeping saints. And just as
the train got fairly going for the draw, tooting all the way, the door of that
watch-box burst open and three policemen men came running out, hard as they
could run. Of course there was only one thing to do, and that’s just the thing
that Charlie Greenman didn’t do. He turned and ran in the general direction of
the Swift House as fast as those long legs of his could carry him. Two of the
officers ran after him and the other came for me. I yelled to Charlie to stop,
but he’d got to a point where he couldn’t hear anything. The other officer came
running with his night-stick in the air, but my Scotch-Irish was rising, and I
threw up my guard. “‘Don’t you touch me,’ I yelled; ‘don’t you touch me!’

“‘Well, come along, then,’ said he. “‘Not a bit of it,’ said I. ‘I’ve nothing to
do with you.’

“‘Well, you ran,’ he yelled; ‘you ran!’

“I just looked at him. ‘Do you call this running?’ said I. “‘Well,’ said he,
‘the other fellow ran.’

“‘All right,’ said I, ‘we’ll run after him.’ So we did. Pretty soon they caught
Charlie. And I was a bit nervous, for I didn’t know what he might say. But he
was too scared to say anything. So I turned to the officer. “‘Now,’ said I,
‘suppose you tell us what it is you want?’

“‘We want you,’ said one of them. “‘No, you don’t,’ said I. “‘Yes, we do,’ said
he. “It seemed to be getting time for some bluffing, so I hit right out.
‘Where’s your headquarters?’ said I. “‘Right over here,’ said he. “‘All right,’
said I, ‘that’s where we’re going, right now. We’ll see if two railroad men
can’t walk through Chaplin’s yards whenever they feel like it.’

“And all the while we were talking I could hear that second train a-whooping it
up for the state line--clickety--clickety--whoo-oo-oo! --clickety--clickety--
getting fainter and fainter. “There was a big captain dozing on a bench in the
station house. When he saw us come in, he climbed up behind his desk so he could
look down on us--they like to look down at you, you know. “‘Well, Captain,’ said
the officer, ‘we’ve got ’em.’

“‘Yes,’ the captain answered, looking down with a grin, ‘I think you have.’

“‘Well now,’ said I, to the captain, ‘who have you got?’

“‘That’ll be all right,’ said he, with another grin. “It was pretty plain that
he wasn’t going to say anything. There was something about the way he looked at
us and especially about that grin that started me thinking. I decided on bluff
number two. I took out my pass case, opened it, and spread out annual passes on
the Great Windy, the Erie, the South-eastern, and the Lake Shore. My name was
written on all of them, H. L. Tiffany, Pittsburg. The minute the captain saw
them he looked queer, and I turned to Charlie and told him to get out his
passes, which he did. For a minute the captain couldn’t say anything; then he
turned on those three officers, and you ought to have heard what he said to them
--gave ’em the whole forty-two degrees right there, concentrated. “‘Well,
gentlemen,’ he said to us, when he’d told the officer all that was on his mind,
‘this is pretty stupid business. I’m very sorry we’ve put you to this trouble,
and I can tell you that if there is anything I can do to make it right, I’ll be
more than glad to do it.’

“Well, there wasn’t anything in particular that I wanted just then except to get
out of Buffalo quick. But I did stop to gratify my curiosity. “‘Would you mind
telling me, Captain,’ said I, ‘who you took us for?’

“The captain looked queer again, then he said, solemn, ‘We took you for body
snatchers.’

“‘Body snatchers!’ I looked at Charlie, and Charlie, who was beginning to
recover, looked at me. “‘You see,’ the captain went on, ‘there’s an old building
out there by the yard, and some young surgeons and medical students have been
using it nights to cut up people in, and when the boys saw two well-dressed
young fellows hanging around there in the middle of the night, they didn’t stop
to think twice. I’m very sorry, indeed. I’ll send two of these men over to
escort you to your hotel, with your permission.’

“That didn’t please me very much, but I couldn’t decline. So we started out,
Charlie and I and the two coppers. But instead of going to the Swift House I
steered them into the Mansion House, and dampened things up a bit. Then I got
three boxes of cigars, Havana imported. I gave one to each of the officers, and
on the bottom of the third I wrote, in pencil, ‘To the Captain, with the
compliments of H. L. Tiffany, of the A. & G. W., Pittsburg, Pa.’ I thought he
might have reason to be interested when he got his next morning’s paper in
knowing just who we were. The coppers went back, tickled to death, and Charlie
and I got out into the street. “‘Well, Hen,’ said he, very quiet, ‘what are you
going to do next?’

“‘You can do what you like, Charlie,’ I said, ‘but I’m going to take the morning
three o’clock on the Michigan Central for Toronto.’ And Charlie, he thought
maybe he’d go with me.”

Tiffany leaned back in a glow of reminiscence, and chuckled softly. Of the
others, some had pushed back their chairs, some were leaning forward on the
table. All had been, for half an hour, in the remote state of New York with this
genial railroading pirate of the old school. Now, outside, a horse whinnied.
Through the desert stillness came the clanking and coughing of a distant train.
They were back in the gray Southwest, perhaps facing adventures of their own.
Carhart rose, for he had work to do at the headquarters tent. Young Van took the
hint, and followed his example. But the long-nosed instrument man, the fire of a
pirate soul shining out through his countenance, leaned eagerly forward. “What
happened then?” he asked. “Oh, nothing much,” Tiffany responded. “What could
happen? Charlie and I came back from Toronto a few days later by way of
Detroit.” Then his eye lighted up again. “But I like to think,” he added, “that
next morning when that captain read about the theft of ninety gon_do_la cars
right out from under the sheriff’s nose by H. L. Tiffany, of Pittsburg, Pa., he
was smoking one of said H. L. Tiffany’s cigars.”

*       *       *       *       *

The sun was up, hot and bright. The laborers and the men of the tie squad and
the iron squad were straggling back to work. The wagons were backing in
alongside the cars. And halfway down the knoll stood Carhart and Flint, both in
easy western costume, Flint booted and spurred, stroking the neck of his well-
kept pony. “Well, so long, Paul,” said the bridge-builder. “Good-by,” said
Carhart. It rested with these two lean men whether an S. & W. train should enter
Red Hills before October. They both felt it, standing there at the track-end,
their backs to civilization, their faces to the desert. “All right, sir.” Flint
got into his saddle. “_All_ right, sir.” He turned toward the waiting wagon
train. “Start along, boys!” he shouted in his thin voice. Haddon galloped ahead
with the order. The drivers took up their reins, and settled themselves for the
long journey. Like Carhart’s men, they were a mixed lot--Mexicans, half-breeds,
native Americans of a curiously military stamp, and nondescripts--but good-
natured enough; and Flint, believing with Carhart in the value of good cooks,
meant to keep them good-natured. One by one the whips cracked; a confusion of
English, Spanish, and French cries went up; the mules plunged; the heavy wagons,
laden with derricks, timber, tools, camp supplies, and the inevitable pile-
driver, groaned forward; and the La Paz Bridge outfit was off. There was about
the scene a sense of enterprise, of buoyant freedom, of deeds to be done. Flint
felt it, as he rode at the head of his motley cavalcade; for he was an
imaginative man. Young Van, standing by the headquarters tent, felt it, for he
was young. Tiffany, still at breakfast, felt it so strongly that he swore most
unreasoningly at the cook. Down on the job, the humblest stake man stood
motionless until Old Van, who showed no signs of feeling anything, asked him if
he hadn’t had about enough of a sy-esta. As for Carhart, he was stirred, but his
fancy did not roam far afield. From now on those things which would have it in
their power to give him the deepest pleasure were the sight of gang after gang
lifting cross-ties, carrying them to the grade, and dropping them into place;
the sight of that growing line of stubby yellow timbers, and the sound of the
rails clanking down upon them and of the rapid-fire sledges driving home the
spikes. *       *       *       *       *

Young Van poked his head in through the flaps. “Well?” said the chief, looking
up. “Won’t you come down, Mr. Carhart? The boys want you to drive the first
spike.”

Carhart smiled, then pushed back his chair, and strode out and down the slope to
the grade. “Stand back there, boys!” cried somebody. Carhart caught up a sledge,
swung it easily over his shoulder, and brought it down with a swing. “There,” he
cried, entering into the spirit of the thing, “there, boys! That means Red Hills
or bust.”

The cheer that followed was led by the instrument man. Then Carhart, still
smiling, walked back to his office. Now the work was begun. But Old Van, the
division engineer, was scowling. He wished the chief would quit stirring up
these skylarking notions--on _his_ division, anyway. It took just that much
longer to take it out of the men--break them so you could drive them better.
CHAPTER IV

JACK FLAGG SEES STARS

It was a month later, on a Tuesday night, and the engineers were sitting about
the table in the office tent. Scribner, the last to arrive, had ridden in after
dusk from mile fourteen. For two weeks the work had dragged. Peet, back at
Sherman, had been more liberal of excuses than of materials. It was always the
mills back in Pennsylvania, or slow business on connecting lines, or the car
famine. And it was not unnatural that the name of the superintendent should have
come to stand at the front for certain very unpopular qualities. Carhart had
faith in Tiffany, but the railroad’s chief engineer was one man in a discordant
organization. Railroad systems are not made in a day, and the S. & W. was new,
showing square corners where all should be polished round; developing friction
between departments, and bad blood between overworked men. Thus it had been
finally brought home to Paul Carhart that in order to carry his work through he
must fight, not only time and the elements, but also the company in whose
interest he was working. Lately the office had received a few unmistakably
vigorous messages from Carhart. Tiffany, too, had taken a hand, and had opened
his mind to the Vice-president. The Vice-president had in turn talked with Peet,
who explained that the materials were always sent forward as rapidly as
possible, and added that certain delays had arisen from the extremely dangerous
condition of Carhart’s road-bed. Meantime, not only rails and ties, but also
food and water, were running short out there at the end of the track. “What does
he say now, Paul?” asked Old Van, after a long silence, during which these
bronzed, dusty men sat looking at the flickering lamp or at the heaps of papers,
books, and maps which covered the table. Carhart drew a crumpled slip of paper
from his pocket and tossed it across the table. Old Van spread it out, and read
as follows:--

MR. PAUL CARHART: Small delay due to shortage of equipment. Supply train started
this morning, however. Regret     inconvenience, as by order of Vice-president
every effort is     being made to supply you regularly. L. W. PEET,
_Division Superintendent_. “Interesting, isn’t it!” said Carhart. “You notice he
doesn’t say how long the train has been on the way. It may not get here for
thirty-six hours yet.”

“Suppose it doesn’t,” put in Scribner, “what are we going to do with the men?”

“Keep them all grading,” said Carhart. “But--”

“Well, what is it? This is a council of war--speak out.”

“Just this. Scraping and digging is thirsty work in this sun, and we haven’t
water enough for another half day.”

“Young Van is due with water.”

“Yes, he is due, Mr. Carhart, but you told him not to come back without it, and
he won’t.”

“Listen!” Outside, in the night, voices sounded, and the creaking of wagons.
“Here he is now,” said Carhart. Into the dim light before the open tent stepped
a gray figure. His face was thin and drawn; his hair, of the same dust color as
his clothing, straggled down over his forehead below his broad hat. He nodded at
the waiting group, threw off his hat, unslung his army canteen, and sank down
exhausted on the first cot. Old Van, himself seasoned timber and unable to
recognize the limitations of the human frame, spoke impatiently, “Well, Gus, how
much did you get?”

“Fourteen barrels.”

“Fourteen barrels!” The other men exchanged glances. “Why--why--” sputtered the
elder brother, “that’s not enough for the engines!”

“It’s all we can get.”

“Why didn’t you look farther?”

“You’d better look at the mules,” Young Van replied simply enough. “I had to
drive them”--he fumbled at his watch--“an even eighteen hours to get back to-
night.” And he added in a whimsical manner that was strange to him, “I paid two
dollars a barrel, too.”

Carhart was watching him closely. “Did you have any trouble with your men, Gus?”
he asked. Young Van nodded. “A little.”

After a moment, during which his eyes were closed and his muscles relaxed, he
gathered his faculties, lighted a cigarette, and rose. “Hold on, Gus,” said
Carhart. “What are you going to do?”

“Bring the barrels up by our tent here. It isn’t safe to leave them on the
wagons. The men--some of them--aren’t standing it well. Some are ‘most crazy.”
He interrupted himself with a short laugh. “Hanged if I blame them!”

“You’d better go to bed, Gus,” said the chief. “I’ll look after the water.”

But Young Van broke away from the restraining hand and went out. Half a hundred
laborers were grouped around the water wagons in oppressive silence. Vandervelt
hardly gave them a glance. “Dimond,” he called, “where are you?”

A man came sullenly out of the shadows. “Take a hand here--roll these barrels in
by Mr. Carhart’s tent.” A murmur spread through the group. More men were
crowding up behind. But the engineer gave his orders incisively, in a voice that
offered no encouragement to insubordination. “You two, there, go over to the
train and fetch some skids. I want a dozen men to help Dimond--you--you--”
Rapidly he told them off. “The rest of you get away from here--quick.”

“What you goin’ to do with that water?” The voice rose from the thick of the
crowd. It drew neither explanation nor reproof from Young Van; but his manner,
as he turned his back and, pausing only to light another cigarette, went rapidly
to work, discouraged the laborers, and in groups of two and three they drifted
off to their quarters. The men worked rapidly, for Mr. Carhart’s assistant had a
way of taking hold himself, lending a hand here or a shoulder there, and giving
low, sharp orders which the stupidest men understood. As they rolled the barrels
along the sides of the tent and stood them on end between the guy ropes Paul
Carhart stood by, a rolled-up map in his hand, and watched his assistant. He
took it all in--the cowed, angry silence of the men, the unfailing authority of
the young engineer. No one felt the situation more keenly than Carhart, but he
had set his worries aside for the moment to observe the methods of the younger
man. Once he caught himself nodding with approval. And then, when he was about
to turn away and resume his study at the table beneath the lantern, an odd scene
took place. The work was done. Vandervelt stood wiping his forehead with a
handkerchief which had darkened from white to rich gray. The laborers had gone;
but Dimond remained. “That’s all, Dimond,” said Vandervelt. But the man
lingered. “Well, what do you want?”

“It’s about this water. The boys want to know if they ain’t to have a drink.”

“No; no more to-night,” replied Young Van. “But--but--” Dimond hesitated. “Wait
a minute,” said Van abruptly. He entered the tent, found his canteen where he
had dropped it, brought it out, and handed it to Dimond. “This is my canteen.
It’s all I have a right to give anybody. Now, shut up and get out.”

Dimond hesitated, then swung the canteen over his shoulder and disappeared
without a word. “Gus,” said Paul Carhart, quietly. “Oh! I didn’t see you there.”

“Wasn’t that something of a gallery play?”

“No, I don’t think it was. It will show them that we are dealing squarely with
them. I had a deuce of a time on the ride, and Dimond really tried, I think, to
keep the men within bounds. They are children, you know,--children with whiskey
throats added,--and they can’t stand it as we can.”

“Gus,” said the chief, taking the boy’s arm and drawing him toward the tent,
“it’s time you got to sleep. I shall need you to-morrow.”

The other engineers were still sitting about the table, talking in low tones.
Carhart rejoined them. Young Van dropped on a cot in the rear and fell asleep
with his boots on. “Old Van is telling how the pay-slips came in to-day,” said
Scribner. Carhart nodded. “Go ahead.” He had found the laborers, headed by the
Mexicans, so impossibly deliberate in their work that he had planned out a
system of paying by the piece. When the locomotive whistle blew at night, each
man was handed a slip stating the amount due him. At the end of the week the
slips were to be cashed, and to-day the first payment had been made. “Go ahead,”
he repeated. “How much did it cost us?”

[Illustration: “‘It’s all I have a right to give anybody.’”]

“About seventy-five dollars more than last week,” replied Old Van. “So that, on
the whole, we got a little more work out of them. But here’s what happened. When
the whistle blew and I got out my satchel, nobody came. I called to a couple of
them to hurry up if they wanted their pay, but they shook their heads. Finally,
just two men came up and handed in all the slips.”

“Two men!” exclaimed Carhart. “Yes. One was the cook, Jack Flagg. He had fully
two-thirds of the slips. The other was his assistant, the one they call Charlie.
He had the rest. I called some of the laborers up and asked what it meant, but
they said it was all right that way.”

“So you gave them the whole pay-roll?”

“Every cent.”

Carhart frowned. “That won’t do,” he said. “A man who can clean out the camp in
less than a week will breed more trouble than a water famine.”

There was little more to be said, and soon the council came to a close. Scribner
went promptly to sleep. Young Van awoke, and with a mumbled “good night”
staggered across after Scribner, to his sleeping tent. And then, for an hour,
Paul Carhart sat alone, his elbows on the table, a profile of the line spread
out before him. Outside, in the night, something stirred. He extinguished his
lamp and listened. Cautious steps were approaching behind the cluster of tents.
A moment more and he heard a man stumble over a peg and swear aloud. Carhart
stepped out at the rear of the tent and stood waiting. Four or five shadowy
figures slipped into view, caught sight of him, and paused. While they stood
huddled together he made out a pair of broad shoulders towering above the group.
There was only one such pair in the camp, and they belonged to the cook, Jack
Flagg. The silence lasted only a moment. Then, without speaking, the men broke
and ran back into the darkness. Carhart waited until the camp was silent, then
he too, went in and to sleep. But Young Van, dozing lightly and restlessly, was
awakened by the noise behind the tents. For a few moments he lay still, then he
got up and looked out. Down the knoll he could see a dim light, and after a
little he made it out as coming from the mess tent of the laborers. Now and then
a low murmur of voices floated up through the desert stillness. Young Van folded
up the legs of his cot, carried it out, laid it across two of the water barrels,
and went to sleep there in the open air. An hour later the mess tent was still
lighted. Within, seated on blocks of timber around a cracker-box, four men were
playing poker; and pressing about them was a score of laborers--all, in fact,
who could crowd into the tent. The air was foul with cheap tobacco and with the
hundred odors that cling to working clothes. The eyes of the twenty or more men
were fixed feverishly on the greasy cards, and on the heaps of the day’s pay-
slips. By a simple process of elimination the ownership of these slips had been
narrowed down to the present players--Jack Flagg, his assistant Charlie, Dimond,
and a Mexican. The silence carried a sense of strain. The occasional coarse
jokes and boisterous laughter died down with strange suddenness. “It’s no use,”
said Flagg, finally, tossing the cards on the box; “they’re against us.”

The Mexican rose at this, and sullenly left the tent. Dimond, with a conscious
laugh, gathered in two-thirds of the slips and pocketed them. It was an
achievement to clean out Jack Flagg. The remaining third went to Charlie. Flagg
leaned back, clasped his great knotted hands about one knee, and looked across
at Dimond. Six feet and a third tall in his socks, hard as steel rails, he could
have lifted any two of the laborers about him clear of the ground, one in each
hand. The lower part of his face was half covered with his long, ill-kept
mustache and the tuft of hair beneath his under lip. The blue shirt he wore had
unmistakably come from a military source, but not a man there, not even Charlie
--himself nearly a match for his chief in height and breadth--would have dared
ask when he had been in the army, nor why or how he had come to leave it.
“Dimond,” said Flagg, “let me have one of those slips a minute.”

The nervous light left Dimond’s eyes. He threw a suspicious glance across the
box; then, after a moment, he complied. Flagg held the slip near the lantern and
examined it. “Eighty cents,” he muttered, “eighty cents--and for how much work?”

“Half a day,” a laborer replied. “Half a day’s work, and the poor devil gets
eighty cents for it!”

“He gets eighty cents! He gets nothing, you’d better say. Dimond, there, is the
man that gets it.”

“That’s no matter. He lost it in fair play. But look at it--look at it!” The
giant cook contemptuously turned the slip over in his hand. “That devil hounds
you like niggers for five hours in the hot sun--he drives you near crazy with
thirst--and then he hands you out this pretty piece of paper with ‘eighty cents’
wrote on it.”

“That’s a dollar-sixty a day. We was only getting one-fifty the old way--on
time.”

“You was only getting one-fifty, was you?” There was infinite scorn in Flagg’s
voice; his masterly eye swept the group. “You was getting one-fifty, and now
you’re thankful to get ten cents more. Do you know what you are? You’re a pack
of fools--that’s what you are!”

[Illustration: “‘Eighty cents,’ he muttered, ‘and for how much work?’”]

“But look here, Jack, what can we do?”

“What can you do?” Flagg paused, glanced at his vis-à-vis. From the expression
of dawning intelligence on Dimond’s face it was plain that he was waking to the
suggestion. The slips that he had won to-night were worth four hundred dollars
to Dimond. Why should not these same bits of paper fetch five hundred or six
hundred? “What can you do?” Flagg repeated. “Oh, but you boys make me weary. It
ain’t any of my business. I ain’t a laborer, and what I do gets well paid for.
But when I look around at you poor fools, I can’t sit still here and let you go
on like this. You ask me what you can do? Well, now, suppose we think it over a
little. Here you are, four hundred of you. This man Carhart offers you one-fifty
a day to come out here into the desert and dig your own graves. Why did he set
that price on your lives? Because he knew you for the fools you are. Do you
think for a minute he could get laborers up there in Chicago, where he comes
from, for one-fifty? Not a bit of it! Do you think he could get men in
Pennsylvania, in New York State, for one-fifty? Not a bit of it! If he was
building this line in New York State, he’d be paying you two dollars, two-fifty,
maybe three. And he’d be glad to get you at the price. And he’d meet your
representative like a gentleman, and step around lively and walk Spanish for
you, if you so much as winked.”

Dimond’s eyes were flashing with excitement, though he kept them lowered to the
cards. His face was flushed. Flagg saw that the seed he had planted was growing,
and he swept on, working up the situation with considerable art. “Think it over,
boys, think it over. This man Carhart finds he can’t drive you fast enough at
one-fifty, so what does he do? He gets up his pay-slip scheme so’s you will kill
yourselves for the chance of making ten cents more. And you stand around and let
him do it--never a peep from you! Now, what’s the situation? Here’s this man,
five hundred miles from nowhere; he’s got to rush the job. We know that, don’t
we?”

“Yes,” muttered Dimond, with a quick breath, “we know that, all right.”

“Well, now, what about it?” Flagg looked deliberately about the eager group.
“What about it? There’s the situation. Here he is, and here you are. He’s in a
hurry. If he was to find out, all of a sudden, that he couldn’t drive you poor
devils any farther; if he was to find out that you had just laid down and said
you wouldn’t do another stroke of work on these terms, what about it? What could
he do?” Flagg paused again, to let the suggestion find its mark. “But he ain’t
worrying any. He knows you for the low-spirited lot you are. So what does he do?
He sends out a bunch of you and makes you ride three days to get water, and then
he stacks the barrels around his tent, where he and his gang can get all they
want, and tells you to go off and suck your thumbs. Much he cares about you.”

Dimond raised his eyes. “Talk plain, Jack,” he said in a low voice. “What is it?
What’s the game?”

Flagg gave him a pitying glance. “You’re still asking what’s the game,” he
replied, and went on half absently, “Let’s see. How much is he paying the iron
squad--how much was that, now?”

“Two dollars,” cried a voice. “Two dollars--yes, that was it; that was it. He is
paying them two dollars a day, and he has set them to digging and grading along
with you boys that only gets one-sixty. I happened to notice that to-day, when I
was a-walking up that way. Those iron-squad boys was out with picks and shovels,
a-doing the same work as the rest of you, only they was doing it for forty cents
more. They ain’t common laborers, you see. There’s a difference. You couldn’t
expect them to swing a pick for one-sixty a day. It would be beneath ’em.
They’re sort o’ swells, you see--”

He paused. There was a long silence. “Boys,”--it was Dimond speaking,--“boys,
Jack Flagg is right. If it costs Carhart two per for the iron squad, it’s got to
cost him the same for us!”

*       *       *       *       *

Carhart was turning the delay to some account by shutting himself up with his
maps and plans and reports and figures. At ten o’clock on the following morning
he heard a step without the tent, and, looking up, saw Young Vandervelt before
him. “There’s trouble up ahead, Mr. Carhart.”

“What is it?”

“The laborers have quit. They demand an increase of ten per cent in their pay.”

“All right, let them have it.”

“I’ll tell my brother. He said no, we shouldn’t give in an inch.”

“You tell him I say to let them have what they ask.”

Young Van hurried back with the order. Carhart quietly resumed the problems
before him. Old Van, when he received the chief’s message, swore roundly.
“What’s Paul thinking of!” he growled. “He ought to know that this is only the
tip of the wedge. They’ll come up another ten per cent before the week’s out.”

But Old Van failed to do justice to the promptness of Jack Flagg. At three in
the afternoon the demand came; and for the second time that day the scrapers lay
idle, and the mules wagged their ears in lazy comfort. “Well!” cried Old Van,
sharply. “Well! It’s what I told you, isn’t it! Now, I suppose you still believe
in running to Paul with the story.”

“Yes,” replied the younger brother, firmly, “of course. He’s the boss.”

“All right, sir! All right, sir!” The veteran engineer turned away in disgust as
his brother started rapidly back to the camp. The laborers, meanwhile, covered
with sweat and dust, tantalized by the infrequent sips of water doled out to
them, lay panting in a long, irregular line on the newly turned earth. “Well,
Gus,” said Carhart, with a wry smile, at sight of the dusty figure before the
tent, “are they at it again?”

“They certainly are.”

“They don’t mean to lose any time, do they? How much is it now?”

“Ten per cent more. What shall we do?”

“Give it to them.”

“All right.”

“Wait a minute, Gus. Who’s their spokesman? “Dimond.”

“Dimond?” Carhart frowned. “Nobody else?”

“No; but the cook has been hanging around a good deal and talking with him.”

“Oh--I see. Well, that’s all. Go ahead; give them what they ask.”

Again the mules were driven at the work. Again--and throughout the day--the
sullen men toiled on under the keen eye of Old Vandervelt. If he had been a
driver before, he was a czar now. If he could not control the rate of pay, he
could at least control the rate of work. To himself, to the younger engineers,
to the men, to the mules, he was merciless. And foot by foot, rod by rod, the
embankment that was to bear the track crept on into the desert. The sun beat
down; the wind, when there was a wind, was scorching hot; but Old Van gave no
heed. Now and again he glanced back to where the material train lay silent and
useless, hoping against hope that far in the distance he might see the smoke of
that other train from Sherman. Peet had said, yesterday, that it was on the way;
and Old Van muttered, over and over, “D--n Peet!”

Night came finally, but not the train. Aching in body, ugly in spirit, the
laborers crept under their blankets. Morning came, but no train. Carhart spent
an hour on the grade, and saw with some satisfaction that the time was not
wholly lost; then he went back to the operator’s tent and opened communications
with Sherman. Sherman expressed surprise that the train had not arrived; it had
been long on the way, said the despatcher. At this message, repeated to him by
the operator, word for word, Carhart stood thoughtful. Then, “Shut off the
despatcher. Wait--tell him Mr. Carhart is much obliged. Shut him off. Now call
Paradise. Say to him--can’t you get him?”

“Yes--all right now.”

“Say--‘When did the supply train pass you on Tuesday?’--got that?”

“Yes--one minute. ‘When--did supply--train pass--you--Tuesday?’”

“Now what does he say?”

“‘Supply--train’--he says--‘passed--here Wednesday--two--P.M.--west-bound.’
There, you see, it didn’t leave on Tuesday at all. It’s only a few hours to
Paradise from Sherman.”

Carhart had Peet’s message still crumpled in his pocket. He straightened it out
and read it again. “All right,” he said to the operator, “that will do.” And as
he walked slowly and thoughtfully out into the blazing sunlight he added to
himself: “So, Mr. Peet, that’s the sort you are, is it? I think we begin to
understand each other.”

“Paul!” It was the gruff voice of Old Vandervelt, low and charged with anger.
“Yes--what?”

“What is it you mean to do with these laborers?”

“Build the line.”

“Well, I’ve done what I could. They’ve walked out again.”

“Another ten per cent?”

“Another ten per cent.”

“Let’s see--we’ve raised them twenty per cent since yesterday morning, haven’t
we?”

“You have--yes.”

“And that ought to be about enough, don’t you think?”

“If you want my opinion,--yes.”

“Now look here, Van. You go back and bring them all up here by the train. Tell
them Mr. Carhart wants to talk to them.”

Vandervelt stared at his chief in downright bewilderment. Then he turned to obey
the order; and as he walked away Carhart caught the muttered words, “Organize a
debating society, eh? Well, that’s the one fool thing left to do!”

But the men did not take it in just this way; in fact, they did not know how to
take it. They hesitated, and looked about for counsel. Even Dimond was
disturbed. The boss had a quiet, highly effective way of saying and doing
precisely what he meant to say and do. Dimond was not certain of his own ability
to stand directly between the men and Paul Carhart. There was something about
the cool way in which they were ordered before him that was--well, businesslike.
He turned and glanced at Flagg. The cook scowled and motioned him forward, and
so the dirty, thirsty regiment moved uncertainly back toward the train, and
formed a wide semicircle before the boss. Carhart had taken his position by a
pile of odds and ends of lumber that lay beside the track. He awaited them
quietly, the only man among the hundreds there who appeared unconscious of the
excitement in the air. The elder Vandervelt stood apart, scowling at the
performance. The younger scented danger, and, climbing up on the train, walked
back over the empty flat-cars to a position directly behind his chief. There he
sat down, his legs swinging over the side of the car. Carhart reached up for his
spectacles, deliberately breathed on them, wiped them, and replaced them. Then
he gave the regiment a slow, inquiring look. “Have you men authorized somebody
to speak for you?” he said in a voice which, though it was not loud, was heard
distinctly by every man there. There was a moment’s hesitation; then the
laborers, or those who were not studying the ground, looked at Dimond. The
telegraph operator stepped out of his little tent, and stood looking at the
scene with startled eyes. Up ahead, the iron squad, uncertain whether to
continue their work, had paused, and now they were gazing back. As the seconds
slipped away their exclamations of astonishment died out. All eyes were fixed on
the group in the centre of the semicircle. For at this critical moment, there
was, it seemed, a hitch. Dimond’s broad hat was pulled down until it half
concealed his eyes. He stood motionless. At his elbow was Jack Flagg, muttering
orders that the nominal leader did not seem to hear. “Flagg, step out here!”

It was Carhart speaking, in the same quiet, distinct manner. The sound of his
voice broke the tension. The men all looked up, even the nerveless Dimond. To
Young Van they were oddly like a room full of schoolboys as they stood silently
waiting for Flagg to obey. The giant cook himself was very like a schoolboy, as
he glanced uneasily around, caught no sign of fight in the obedient eyes about
him, sought counsel in the ground, the sky, the engines standing on the track,
then finally slouched forward. Young Van caught himself on the verge of laughing
out. He saw Flagg advance a way and pause. Carhart waited. Flagg took a few more
steps, then paused again, with the look of a man who feels that he has been
bullied into a false position, yet cannot hit upon the way out. “Well,” he said,
glowering down on the figure of the engineer in charge--and very thin and short
Carhart looked before him--“well, what do you want of me?”

For reply Carhart coolly looked him over. Then he snatched up a piece of
scantling, whirled it once around his head, and caught Jack Flagg squarely on
his deep, well-muscled chest. The cook staggered back, swung his arms wildly to
recover his balance, failed, and fell flat, striking on the back of his head.
But he was up in an instant, and he started forward, swearing copiously and
reaching for his hip pocket. Young Van saw the motion. He knew that Paul Carhart
seldom carried a weapon, and he felt that the safety of them all lay with
himself. Accordingly he leaped to the ground, ran to the side of his chief,
whipped out a revolver, and levelled it at Jack Flagg. “Hands up!” he cried.
“Hands up!”

“Gus,” cried Carhart, in a disgusted voice, “put that thing up!”

Young Van, crestfallen, hesitated; then dropped his arm. “Now, Flagg,” said the
chief, tossing the scantling to one side, “you clear out. You’d better do it
fast, or the men’ll finish where I left off.”

The cook glanced behind him, and his eyes flitted about the semicircle from face
to face. He was keen enough to take in the situation, and in a moment he had
ducked under the couplers between two cars and disappeared. “Well,” exclaimed
Young Van, pocketing his revolver, “it didn’t take you long to wind that up, Mr.
Carhart.”

“To wind it up?” Carhart repeated, turning with a queer expression toward his
young assistant. “To begin it, you’d better say.” Then he composed his features
and faced the laborers. “Get back to your work,” he said. CHAPTER V

WHAT THEY FOUND AT THE WATER-HOLE

Half an hour later Scribner, who was frequently back on the first division
during these dragging days, was informed that Mr. Carhart wished to see him at
once. Walking back to the engineers’ tent he found the chief at his table. “You
wanted me, Mr. Carhart?”

“Oh,”--the chief looked up--“Yes, Harry, we’ve got to get away from this
absolute dependence on that man Peet. I want you to ride up ahead and bore for
water. You can probably start inside of an hour. I’m putting it in your hands.
Take what men, tools, and wagons you need--but find water.”

With a brief “All right, Mr. Carhart,” Scribner left the tent and set about the
necessary arrangements. Carhart, this matter disposed of, called a passing
laborer, and asked him to tell Charlie that he was wanted at headquarters. The
assistant cook--huge, raw-boned, with a good-natured and not unintelligent face
--lounged before the tent for some moments before he was observed. Then, in the
crisp way he had with the men, Carhart told him to step in. “Well,” began the
boss, looking him over, “what kind of a cook are you?”

A slow blush spread over the broad features. “Speak up. What were you doing when
I sent for you?”

“I--I--you see, sir, Jack Flagg was gone, and there wasn’t anything being done
about dinner, and I--”

“And you took charge of things, eh?”

“Well--sort of, sir. You see--”

“That’s the way to do business. Go back and stick at it. Wait a minute, though.
Has Flagg been hanging around any?”

[Illustration: “‘Well,’ began the boss, looking him over, ‘what kind of a cook
are you?’”]

“I guess he has. All his things was took off, and some of mine.”

“Take any money?”

“All I had.”

“I’m not surprised. Money was what he was here for. He would have cleaned you
out, anyway, before long.”

“I’m not so sure of that, sir. We cleaned him out last time.”

“And you weren’t smart enough to see into that?”

“Well--no, I--”

“Take my advice and quit gambling. It isn’t what you were built for. What did
you say your name was?”

“Charlie.”

“Well, Charlie, you go back and get up your dinner. See that it is a good one.”

Charlie backed out of the tent and returned to his kettles and pans and his boy
assistants. He was won, completely. Late on Thursday evening that mythical train
really rolled in, and half the night was spent in preparations for the next day.
Friday morning tracklaying began again. In the afternoon a second train arrived,
and the air of movement and accomplishment became as keen as on the first day of
the work. Paul Carhart, in a flannel shirt, which, whatever color it may once
have been, was now as near green as anything, a wide straw hat, airy yellow
linen trousers, and laced boots, appeared and reappeared on both divisions--
alert, good-natured, radiating health and energy. The sun blazed endlessly down,
but what laborer could complain with the example of the boss before him! The
mules toiled and plunged, and balked and sulked, and toiled again, as mules
will. The drivers--boys, for the most part--carried pails of water on their
wagons, and from time to time wet the sponges which many of the men wore in
their hats. And over the grunts and heaves of the tie squad, over the rattling
and groaning of the wagon, over the exhausts of the locomotives, sounded the
ringing clang of steel, as the rails were shifted from flat-car to truck, from
truck to ties. It was music to Carhart,--deep, significant, nineteenth-century
music. The line was creeping on again--on, on through the desert. “What do you
think of this!” had been Young Van’s exclamation when the second train appeared.
“It’s too good to be true,” was the reply of his grizzled brother. Old
Vandervelt was right: it was too good to be true. Soon the days were getting
away from them again; provisions and water were running short, and Peet was
sending on the most skilful lot of excuses he had yet offered. For the second
time the tracklaying had to stop; and Carhart, slipping a revolver into his
holster, rode forward alone to find Scribner. He found him in a patch of sage-
brush not far from a hill. The heat was blistering, the ground baked to a
powder. There had been no rain for five months. Scribner, stripped to undershirt
and trousers, was standing over his men. “Glad to see you, Mr. Carhart!” he
cried. “You are just in time. I think I’ve struck it.”

“That’s good news,” the chief replied, dismounting. They stepped aside while
Scribner gave an account of himself. “I first drove a small bore down about
three hundred feet, and got this.” He produced a tin pail from his tent, which
contained a dark, odorous liquid. Carhart sniffed, and said:--

“Sulphur water, eh!”

“Yes, and very bad. It wouldn’t do at all. But before moving on, I thought I’d
better look around a little. That hill over there is sandstone, and a
superficial examination led me to think that the sandstone dips under this
spot.”

“That might mean a very fair quality of water.”

“That’s what I think. So I inserted a larger casing, to shut out this sulphur
water, and went on down.”

“How far?”

“A thousand feet. I’m expecting to strike it any moment now.”

“Your men seem to think they have struck something. They’re calling you.”

The engineers returned to the well in time to see the water gushing to the
surface. “There’s enough of it,” muttered Scribner. The chief bent over it and
shook his head. “Smell it, Harry,” he said. Scribner threw himself on the ground
and drank up a mouthful from the stream. But he promptly spit it out. “It’s
worse than the other!” he cried. They were silent a moment. Then Carhart said,
“Well--keep at it, Harry. I may look you up again after a little.”

He walked over to his horse, mounted, nodded a good-by, and cantered back toward
the camp. Scribner watched him ride off, then soberly turned and prepared to
pack up and move on westward. He was thinking, as he gave the necessary orders,
how much this little visit meant. The chief would have come only with matters at
a bad pass. *       *       *       *       *

Over a range of low waste hills, through a village of prairie-dogs,--and he
fired humorously at them with his revolver as they sat on their mounds, and
chuckled when they popped down out of sight,--across a plain studded from
horizon to horizon with the bleached bones and skulls of thousands of buffaloes,
past the camp and the grade where the men of the first division were at work,
Paul Carhart rode, until, finally, the main camp and the trains and wagons came
into view. It was supper-time. The red, spent sun hung low in the west; the
parched earth was awaiting the night breeze. Cantering easily on, Carhart soon
reached the grade, and turned in toward the tents. The endless quiet of the
desert gave place to an odd, tense quiet in the camp. The groups of laborers,
standing or lying motionless, ceasing their low, excited talk as he passed; the
lowered eyes, the circle of Mexicans standing about the mules, the want of the
relaxation and animal good-nature that should follow the night whistle: these
signs were plain as print to his eyes and his senses. He dismounted, walked
rapidly to the headquarters tent, and found the two Vandervelts in anxious
conversation. He had never observed so sharply the contrast between the
brothers. The younger was smooth shaven, slender, with brown hair, and frank
blue eyes that were dreamy at times; he would have looked the poet were it not
for a square forehead, a straight, incisive mouth, and a chin as uncompromising
as the forehead. There was in his face the promise of great capacity for work,
dominated by a sympathetic imagination. The face of his brother was another
story; some of the stronger qualities were there, but they were not tempered
with the gentler. His stocky frame, his strong neck, the deep lines about his
mouth, even the set of his cropped gray mustache, spoke of dogged, unimaginative
persistence. Evidently they were not in agreement. Both started at the sight of
their chief--the younger brother with a frank expression of relief. Carhart
threw off his hat and gauntlet gloves, took his seat at the table, and looked
from one to the other. The elder brother nodded curtly. “Go ahead, Gus,” he
said. “Give Paul your view of it.”

Thus granted the floor, Young Van briefly laid out the situation. “We put your
orders into effect this morning, Mr. Carhart, and shortened the allowance of
drinking water. In an hour the men began to get surly--just as they did the
other time. But we kept them under until an hour or so ago. Then the sheriff of
Clark County--a man named Lane, Bow-legged Bill Lane,”--Young Van smiled
slightly as he pronounced the name,--“rode in with a large posse. It seems he is
on the trail of a gang of thieves, greasers, army deserters, and renegades
generally. He had one brush with them some miles below here,--I think I had
better tell you about this before I go on,--but they broke up into small parties
and got away from him. He had some reason to think that they would work up this
way, and try to stampede our horses and mules some night. He advises arming our
men, and keeping up more of a guard at night. Another thing; he says that a good
many Apaches are hanging around us,--he has seen signs of them over there in the
hills,--and while they would never bother such a large party as this of ours,
Bow-legged Bill”--he smiled again--“thinks it would be best to arm any small
parties we may send out. If the Indians thought Harry Scribner, for instance,
had anything worth stealing they might give him some trouble.”

“Send half-a-dozen wagons forward to him to-morrow, under Dimond,” said Carhart,
briefly. “See that they carry rifles and cartridges enough for Scribner’s whole
party. And wire Tiffany to send on three hundred more rifles.”

“All right; I will attend to it. I told the sheriff we came down here as
peaceful railroad builders, not as border fighters; but he said what we came for
hasn’t much to do with it,--I couldn’t repeat his language if I tried,--it’s how
we’re going back that counts; whether it’s to be on a ‘red plush seat, or up in
the baggage car on ice.’ But so much for that. It seems that his men, mixing in
with ours, found out that we are short of water. They promptly said that there
is a first-rate pool, with all the water we could use, only about thirty-five
miles southwest of here.” He was coming now, having purposely brought up the
minor matters first, to the real business. Carhart heard him out. “It didn’t
take long to see that something was the matter with the men. Before the posse
rode off the sheriff spoke to me about it, and offered to let us have a man to
guide us to the pool if we wanted him. I am in favor of accepting. The men are
trembling on the edge of an outbreak. If there was a Jack Flagg here to organize
them, they would have taken the mules and started before you got back; and if
they once got started, I’m not sure that even shooting would stop them. They are
beyond all reason. It’s nothing but luck that has kept them quiet up to now,--
nobody has happened to say the word that would set them off. I think we ought to
reassure them,--tell the sheriff we’ll take the guide, and let the men know that
a wagon train will start the first thing in the morning.”

“That’s it! That’s it!” Old Van broke out angrily. “Always give in to those d--n
rascals! There’s just one thing to do, I tell you. Order them to their quarters
and stand a guard over them from the iron squad.”

“But you forget,” Young Van replied hotly, “that they are not to blame.”

“Not to blame! What the--!”

“Wait a minute!--They are actually suffering now. We are not dealing with
malicious men--they are not even on strike for more pay. We’re on the edge of a
panic, that’s what’s the matter. And the question is, What is the best way to
control that panic?”

“Wait, boys,” said Carhart. “Gus is right. This trouble has its roots away down
in human nature. If water is to be had, those men have a right to it. If we
should put them under guard, and they should go crazy and make a break for it,
what then? What if they call our bluff? We must either let them go--or shoot.”

“Then I say shoot,” cried Old Vandervelt. “No, Van,” Carhart replied, “you’re
wrong. As Gus says, we are uncomfortably close to a panic. Well, let them have
their panic. Put them on the wagons and let them run off their heat. Organize
this panic with ourselves at the head of it.” His voice took on a crisper
quality. “Van, you stay here in charge of the camp. Pick out a dozen of the iron
squad, give them rifles, and keep three at a time on extra watch all night.”

“Hold on,” said the veteran, bewildered, “when are you going to start on
this--?”

“Now.”

“Now? To-night?”

“To-night. Gus, you find your sheriff. He can’t be far off.”

“No; half a mile down the line.”

“You find him, explain the situation, and tell him we want that man in half an
hour.”

The conference broke up sharply. Gus Vandervelt hurried out, saddled his horse,
and rode off into the thickening dusk. Old Van went to select his guards.
Carhart saw them go; then, pausing to note with satisfaction the prospect of
only moderate darkness, he set about organizing his force. All the empty casks
and barrels were loaded on wagons. Mules were hitched four and six in hand.
Water, beyond a canteen for each man, could not be spared; but Charlie packed
provisions enough--so he thought--for twenty-four hours. The tremulous,
brilliant afterglow faded away. The stars peeped out, one by one, and twinkled
faintly. The dead plain--alive only with scorpions, horned frogs, tarantulas,
striped lizards, centipedes, and the stunted sage-brush--stretched silently away
to the dim mountains on the horizon. The bleaching bones--ghostly white out
there in the sand--began to slip off into the distance and the dark. All about
was rest, patience, eternity. Here in camp were feverish laborers with shattered
nerves; men who started at the swish of a mule’s tail--and swore, no matter what
their native tongue, in English, that famous vehicle for profane thoughts. The
mules, full of life after their enforced rest, took advantage of the dark and
confusion to tangle their harness wofully. Leaders swung around and mingled
fraternally with wheelers, whereupon boy drivers swore horrible oaths in voices
that wavered between treble and bass. Lanterns waved and bobbed about. Men
shouted aimlessly. Suddenly the babel quieted--the laborers were bolting a
belated supper. Then, after a moment of confusion, three men rode out of the
circle of lanterns, put their horses at the grade, stood out for a vivid moment
in the path of light thrown by the nearest engine,--Paul Carhart, Young
Vandervelt, and the easy-riding guide,--plunged down the farther side of the
grade, and blended into the night. One after another the long line of wagons
followed after, whips cracking, mules balking and breaking, men tugging at the
spokes of the wheels. Then, at last, they were all over; the shouts had softened
into silence. And Old Van stood alone on the grade and looked after them with
eyes that were dogged and gloomy. *       *       *       *       *

Paul Carhart had organized the panic; now he was resolved to “work it out of
them,” as he explained aside to Young Van. He estimated that they should reach
the pool before eight o’clock in the morning. That would mean continuous
driving, but the endurance of mules is a wonderfully elastic thing; and as for
the men, the sooner they were tired, the less danger would there be of a panic.
Accordingly, the three leaders set off at a canter. The drivers caught the pace,
lashing out with their whips and shouting in a frenzied waste of strength. The
mules galloped angrily; the wagons rattled and bumped and leaped the mounds, for
there was not the semblance of road or trail. Now and again a barrel was jolted
off, and it lay there unheeded by the madmen who came swaying and cursing by.
Here and there one calmer than his fellows climbed back from a seat by his
driver and kept the kegs and barrels in place. Wonderfully they held the pace,
over mile after mile of rough plain. Then, after a time, came the hills,--low at
first, but rising steadily higher. In the faint light the sage-brush slipped by
like the ghosts of dead vegetation. The rocks and the heaps of bones gave the
wheels many a wrench. The steady climb was telling on the mules. They hung back,
slowed to a walk all along the line, and under the whip merely plunged or
kicked. Up and up they climbed, winding through the low range by a pass known
only to the guide. One mule, a leader in a team of six, stumbled among the
rocks, fell to his knees, and was dragged and pushed along in a tangle of
harness before his fellows came to a stop. In a moment a score of men were
crowding around. Up ahead the wagons were winding on out of sight; behind, the
line was blocked. [Illustration: “Wonderfully they held the pace.”]

“Vat you waiting for?” cried a New Orleans man, feverishly. He had been
drinking, and had lost his way among the languages. “_Laissez passer! Laissez
passer!_”

The boys were cooler than the men--not knowing so well what it all meant. “Hi
there, _Oui-Oui_, gimme a knife!” cried the youthful driver, shrilly. He slashed
at the harness, cut the mule loose, and drove on. And one by one the wagons
circled by the struggling beast and pushed ahead to close up the gap in the
line. Eight hours were got through. It was four in the morning. The hills lay
behind, an alkaline waste before. The mules were tugging heavily and dejectedly
through the sand. Certain of the drivers sat upright with lined faces and ringed
eyes, others lay sleeping on the seats with the reins tied. All were subdued.
The penetrating dust aggravated their thirst. Carhart pricked forward beside the
guide. “How much farther?” he asked. “Well, it ain’t easy to say. We might be
halfway there.”

“Halfway! Do you mean to say we’ve done only fifteen or eighteen miles in eight
hours?”

“No, I didn’t say that.”

“Look here. How far is it to this pool!”

“Well, it’s hard to say.”

Carhart frowned and gave it up. The “thirty or thirty-five miles” had apparently
been the roughest sort of an estimate. Then the sun came up and beat upon them,
and the sand began to radiate heat by way of an earnest of the day to follow;
and then the wheels sank so deeply that the chief and Young Van tossed their
reins to the guide and walked by the wagons to lend a hand now and then at the
spokes. All the crazy energy of the evening was gone; men and mules were alike
sullen and dispirited. Of the latter, many gave out and fell, and these were cut
out and left there to die. So it went all through that blazing forenoon. They
halted at twelve for lunch; but the dry bread and salt pork were hardly
stimulating. Carhart again sought the guide. “Do you know yourself where the
pool is?”

The guide shaded his eyes and searched the horizon. “It was in a spot that
looked something like this here,” he said in a weak, confidential sort of way.
Carhart answered sharply, “Why don’t you say you are lost, and be done with it!”

“Well, I ain’t lost exactly. I wouldn’t like to say that.”

“But you haven’t the least idea where the pool is.”

“Well, now, you see--”

“Is there any other water on ahead?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Where?”

“The Palos River can’t be more than a dozen miles beyond the place where we
found the pool.”

He had unconsciously raised his voice. A laborer overheard the remark, whipped
out his knife, hacked at the harness of the nearest mule,--it would have been
simpler to loosen the braces, but he was past all thinking,--threw himself on
the animal’s back, and rode off, lashing behind him with the end of the reins.
The panic broke loose again. Man after man, the guide among them, followed
after, until only the wagons and about half the animals remained. “Come, Gus,”
called the chief, “let them go.”

Young Van turned wearily, mounted his panting horse, and the two followed the
men. But Carhart turned in his saddle to look back at the property abandoned
there in the sand. Half an hour later, Young Van’s horse stumbled and fell,
barely giving his rider time to spring clear. “Is he done for?” asked Carhart,
reining up. “It looks like it.”

“What’s the matter--done up yourself?”

“A little. I’ll sit here a minute. You go ahead. I’ll follow on foot.”

“Not a bit of it. Here--can you swing up behind me?”

“That won’t do. Texas can’t carry double. Go ahead; I’m all right.”

But Carhart dismounted, lifted his assistant, protesting, into the saddle, and
pushed on, himself on foot, leading the horse. They went on in this way for
nearly an hour. Young Van found it all he could do to hold himself in the
saddle. Then the horse took to staggering, and finally came to his knees.
Carhart helped his assistant to the ground, pulled his hat brim down to shade
his eyes, and looked ahead. A cloud of dust on the horizon, a beaten trail
through the sand, here and there a gray-brown heap where a mule had fallen,--
these marked the flight of his drivers and laborers. His eyes came back to the
fainting man at his feet. Young Van had lost all sense of the world about him.
Carhart saw that his lips were moving, and knelt beside him. Then he smiled, a
curious, unhumorous smile; for the young engineer was muttering those words
which had of late been his brother’s favorites among all the words in our rich
language: “D--n Peet!”

The chief stood up again to think. And as he gazed off eastward in the general
direction of Sherman, toward the place where the arch enemy of the Sherman and
Western sat in his office, perhaps devising new excuses to send to the front,
those same two expressive words might have been used to sum up his own thoughts.
What could the man be thinking of, who had brought the work practically to a
stop, who was now in the coolest imaginable fashion leaving a thousand men to
mingle their bones with the bones of the buffalo--that grim, broadcast
expression of the spirit of the desert. [Illustration: “They went on in this way
for nearly an hour.”]

But these were unsafe thoughts. His own head was none too clear. It was reeling
with heat and thirst and with the monotony of this desolate land. He drew a
flask from his pocket,--an almost empty flask,--and placed it against Young
Van’s hand. With their two hats propped together he shaded his face. Then, a
canteen slung over each shoulder, he pushed ahead, on foot. *       *       *
*       *

“The Palos River can’t be more than a dozen miles--” had said the guide,
pointing southward. That was all. Somewhere off there in the desert it lay,
flowing yellow and aimless. Perhaps it was a lie. Perhaps the guide was
mistaken, as he had been in the search for the pool. But the last feeble tie
that bound these outcasts to reason had snapped at the sight of that unsteady,
pointing finger, and only the original sin in them was left. The words of the
guide had been heard by one man, and he was off at the instant, his only remark
a curse as he knocked a boy out of his way. But others had seen the pointing
finger. And still others were moved by the impulse which spurs men, in frantic
moments, to any sort of action. In the rush for mounts two men, a half-breed
from the Territory and a Mexican, plunged at the same animal. The half-breed was
hacking at the nigh trace and the Mexican at the off rein when their eyes met.
The mule both had chosen was the nigh leader in a double team. But instead of
turning to one of the other three, the men, each with a knife in his hand, fell
to fighting; and while they struggled and fell and rolled over and over in the
sand, a third man mounted their prize and galloped away. But it was the boys who
suffered most. None but hardy youngsters had been chosen for the drive, but
their young endurance could not help them in personal combat with these grown
men; and personal combat was what it came to wherever a boy stood or sat near a
desirable mule. The odd thing was that every man and boy succeeded in getting
away. Hats were lost. Shirts were torn to shreds, exposing skins, white and
brown, to the merciless sun. Even the half-breed and the Mexican, dropping their
quarrel as unreasonably as they had begun it, each bleeding from half-a-dozen
small wounds, finally galloped off after the others. And when these last were
gone, and the dust was billowing up behind them, something less than two minutes
had passed since the guide had pointed southward. The Palos River is probably
the most uninviting stream in the Southwest. It was at this time sluggish and
shallow. The water was so rich with silt that a pailful of it, after standing an
hour, would deposit three inches of mud. The banks were low and of the same gray
sand as the desert, excepting that a narrow fringe of green announced the river
to the eye. It was into and through this fringe that the first rider plunged. It
had been a long two-hour ride, and the line straggled out for more than a mile
behind him. But he was not interested in his companions. His eyes were fixed on
the broad yellow river-bed with the narrow yellow current winding through it.
Drinking could not satisfy him. He wanted to get into the water, and feel his
wet clothes clinging about him, and duck his face and head under, and splash it
about with his hands. His mount needed no lash to slip and scramble down the
bank and spurt over the sand. The animal was so crazily eager that he stumbled
in the soft footing and went to his knees. But the rider sailed on over his
head, and with a great shout, arms and legs spread wide, he fell with a splash
and a gurgle into the water. The mule regained his feet and staggered after him,
and then the two of them, man and beast, rolled and wallowed and splashed, and
drank copiously. The second man reached the bank on foot, for his mule had
fallen within sight of the promised land. He paused there, apparently
bewildered, watching his fortunate comrade in the water. Then, with dazed
deliberation, he removed his clothes, piled them neatly under a bush, and walked
out naked, stepping gingerly on the heated sand. But halfway to the channel a
glimmer of intelligence sparkled in his eyes, and he suddenly dashed forward and
threw himself into the water. One by one the others came crashing through the
bushes, and rode or ran down the bank, swearing, laughing, shouting, sobbing.
And not one of them could have told afterward whether he drank on the upstream
or the downstream side of the mules. When Paul Carhart, a long while later,
parted the bushes and stood out in relief on the bank, leaning on a shrub for
support, he saw a strange spectacle. For a quarter of a mile, up and down the
channel, were mules, some drinking, some rolling and kicking some lying out flat
and motionless. Near at hand, hanging from every bush, were shirts and trousers
and stockings; at the edge of the bank was a long, irregular line of boots and
shoes. And below, on the broad reach of sand, laughing, and bantering, and
screaming like schoolboys, half a hundred naked men stood in a row, stooping
with hands on knees, while a dozen others went dancing and high-stepping and
vaulting over them. They were playing leap-frog. Carhart walked across to the
upstream side of the mules and drank. Then, after filling two canteens, he
returned to the bank and sat down in such small shade as he could find. It was
at this moment that the men caught sight of him. The game stopped abruptly, and
for a moment the players stood awkwardly about, as schoolboys would at the
appearance of the teacher. Then, first one, and another, and a group of two or
three more, and finally, all of them, resumed their simple clothing, and sat
down along the bank to await orders. The panic was over. Now the chief roused
himself. “Here, you two!” he cried. “Take these canteens and the freshest mules
you can find, and go back to Mr. Vandervelt. Ride hard.”

And almost at the word, eager, responsive, the men he had addressed were off. *
*       *       *       *

As soon as the worst of the shakiness passed out of his legs, Carhart rose. His
next task was to get the mules back to the wagons, and bring them on to the
river in order to fill the barrels, and this promised a greater expenditure of
time and strength than he liked to face. But there was no alternative, it
seemed, so he caught a mule, mounted it, and rode back. And the men trailed
after him, riding and walking, in a line half a mile long. Carhart found Young
Van sitting up, too weak to talk, supported by the two men whom he had sent
back. “How is he?” asked the chief. “It’s hard to say, Mr. Carhart,” replied one
of the men. “He don’t seem quite himself.”

Carhart dismounted, felt the pulse of the young man, and then bathed his temples
with the warmish water. “Carry him over into the shade of that wagon, boys,” he
said. “Here, I’ll give you a hand.”

The earth, even beneath the wagon, was warm, and Carhart and the two laborers
spread out their coats before they laid him down. The chief poured a little
water on his handkerchief, and laid it on Young Van’s forehead. And then, when
Carhart had got to his feet and was looking about, holding down his hat-brim to
shade his eyes, an expression of inquiry, which had come into his face some
little time before, slowly deepened. “Boys,” he said, “what’s become of the
mules that were left here?”

The men looked up. “Don’t know, Mr. Carhart,” replied the more talkative one. “I
ain’t seen ’em.”

Carhart turned away, and again his eyes roved about over the beaten ground. Very
slowly and thoughtfully he began walking around the deserted wagons in widening
circles. Those of the men who were back from the river watched him curiously.
After a time he stopped and looked at some tracks in the sand, and then, still
walking slowly, followed them off to the right. A few of the men, the more
observant ones, fell in behind him, but he did not glance around. The foremost
laborer stopped a moment and waited for the man next behind. “The boss is done
up,” he said in a low voice. The other man nodded. “Unsteady in the legs,” he
replied. “And he’s gone white. I see it when we was at the river.”

The tracks were distinct enough, but Carhart did not quicken his pace. He was
talking to himself, half aloud: “It’ll go on until it’s settled,--those things
have to, out here. He’s a coward, but he’ll drink it down every day until the
idea gets to running loose in his head.”--He staggered a little, then pulled
himself up short. “What’s the matter with me, anyway!” he muttered. “This is a
pretty spectacle!” And he walked deliberately on. The trail led him, and the
quiet little file of men behind him, over and around a low ridge and a chain of
knolls. “This heat keeps a dead rein on you,” he said, again speaking half
aloud. “Let’s see, what was I thinking,--oh, the boys at the camp, they needed
water too; I was going to load up and hurry back to help them out.”

And then, as he walked on with a solemn precision not unlike that of a drunken
man, the scene shifted, and another scene--one which had long ago slipped out of
his waking thoughts,--took its place. He was fishing a trout stream in the
Adirondacks. He had found a series of pools in a narrow gorge where the brook
came leaping merrily down from one low ledge to another. The underbrush on the
steep banks was dark and impenetrable. The pine and hemlock and beech and maple
and chestnut trees grew thick on either hand, and so matted their branches
overhead that only a little checkered light could sift through. The rocks were
dark with moss; the stream was choked at certain points with the debris of the
last flood. He was tired after the day’s fishing. A storm came up. It grew very
black and ugly in that little ravine. And then, for no reason, a thing happened
which had not happened in his steady mind before or since. He fell into a
curious horror, in which the tangled wilderness and the gloom and the rushing
rain and the creaking trees and the noise of the falling water and that of the
thunder all played some part. He recalled that he had found a hollow in the
bank, where a large tree had been uprooted, and had taken shivering refuge
there. The wilderness had always before seemed man’s playground. It suddenly
became a savage living and breathing thing to which a man was nothing. And now
the desert was showing its teeth, and Carhart knew that he was trembling again
on the brink of the horrors. He understood the sort of thing very well. He had
seen men grow crafty and cowardly or ugly and murderous out there on the
frontier. He had been in Death Valley. And as he had seen the symptoms in other
men’s faces, so he now felt them coming into his own. He knew how a man’s sense
of proportion can go awry,--how a mere railroad, with its very important banker-
officials in top hats and its very elaborate and impressive organization, could
seem a child’s toy here in the desert where the wonderful spaces and the
unearthly atmosphere and the morning and evening colors lie very close to the
borders of another realm, and where the eye of God blazes forever down on the
just and the unjust. None of the little devices of a sophisticated world pass
current in the desert. Carhart knew all this, as I have said, very well. He knew
that a man’s mind is searched to the bottom out here, that the morbid tone and
the yellow streak are inevitably dragged to the surface and displayed to the
gaze of all men. But he also knew that where the mind is sound, the trouble may
arise from physical exhaustion, and this knowledge saved him. He deliberately
recalled the fact that for thirty-six hours he had not slept and that the work
he had done and the strain he had been under would have sent many men to the
nearest hospital, or, in the desert, to the nearest shallow excavation in the
ground. And he walked slowly and steadily on, in that same shaky, determined
manner. On the summit of a knoll he stopped short, and looked down at something
on the farther side. The men came up, one by one, and joined him; and they, too,
stopped short and looked. And then Carhart raised his eyes and watched their
faces steadily, eagerly wondering if they saw what he saw,--a water-hole,
fringed with green, and a mule lying at the water’s edge and a number of other
mules quietly grazing. It was his test of himself. For a full half minute he
gazed into those sweaty, drink-bleared faces. And then, at what he saw there,
his own tense expression gave way to one of overwhelming relief. The men ran
pell-mell down the slope, shouting with delight. And Carhart sat down there on
the knoll, and his head fell a little forward over his knees. “Will you have a
little of this, Mr. Carhart?”

A big renegade with the face of a criminal was holding out a flask. The chief
took it, and gulped down a few swallows. “Thank you,” he said quietly. “One of
the boys found this here, down among them tin cans, Mr. Carhart.”

It was the crumpled first page of the _Pierrepont Enterprise_. Carhart stiffened
up, spread it out on his knees, and read the date line. The paper was only two
days old. “Where’s Pierrepont?” he asked. “About a day’s journey down the river,
sir.”

Again the chief’s eyes ran over the sheet. Suddenly they lighted up. Here is
what he saw:--

GOSSIP OF THE RAILROADS

Commodore Durfee Gets the “Shaky & Windy”

Mr. De Reamer and Mr. Chambers in contempt of Court--Durfee and Carrington
directors allied at last against De Reamer--It is said that Durfee already has a
majority--Meeting to be held nex will be decid De Rea

The rest of it was torn off, but he read these headings three times. Then he
lowered his knees, with the paper still lying across them, and looked over it at
the little group of men and mules about the water-hole. “Can that be true, or
can’t it?” he asked himself. “And what am I going to do about it? I don’t
believe it; it’s another war of injunctions, that’s what it is, and it isn’t
likely to be settled short of the Supreme Court. We can start back in an hour or
so, and as soon as we reach camp I’ll take the five-spot”--Carhart’s two engines
happened to bear the numbers five and six--“the five-spot and the private car
and see if Bill Cunningham can’t make a record run toward Sherman. It’s a little
puzzling, but I’m inclined to think it’s a mighty good thing that I found this
paper.”

He tossed it away, and then, catching sight for the first time of the other
side, he took it up again. The second page was nearly covered with crude
designs, made with a blue pencil. There were long rows of scallops, and others
of those aimless markings a man will make when pencil and paper are before him.
And in the middle, surrounded by a sort of decorative border, was printed out
“MR. CARHART,” then a blank space and the name “JACK FLAGG.”

Carhart rose to his feet, folded the paper, put it in his hip pocket, and looked
cheerfully around. “So, Mr. Flagg, it’s you I’m indebted to for this
information. I’m sure I’m greatly obliged.” Then he waved to the men. “Come on,
boys,” he shouted. “Bring those animals back to the wagons. We’ll fill the
barrels here.”

Slowly and not without difficulty he walked back. But the unsteadiness in his
legs no longer disturbed him. The panic was over,--and something else was over
too. CHAPTER VI

THE ROAD TO TOTAL WRECK

“How’s my pony?” said Young Van. “You haven’t told me.”

“I shot him.”

“Not yours too? Didn’t I see you riding Texas this morning? I--I’m a little hazy
about what I have and haven’t seen these days.”

“Yes; Texas pulled through. He’s hitched on just behind us.”

The wagon train, with every barrel full, was drawing slowly toward Mr. Carhart’s
camp. Young Van and Carhart were riding on the leading wagon, and the former was
gazing off dejectedly to the horizon, where he could see a few moving black
specks and the gray-yellow line of the grade. “I don’t know what you’ll think of
me, Mr. Carhart,” he said, after a time. “I don’t seem to be good for much when
it comes to real work.”

“Better forget about it, Gus,” the chief replied. “I’m going to. This isn’t
railroad building.”

The long line of wagons wound into camp, and Carhart made it his first business
to get his assistant undressed and comfortably settled on his cot. It would be a
day or so before the young man would be able to resume his work. Then Carhart
stepped out, walked part way down the knoll, and looked about him, and became
conscious of an unusual stir about the job. Peering out through dusty
spectacles, he saw that a party of strangers were coming up the slope toward
him. At the head walked Old Van, in boiled shirt and city clothes, with a tall
man in frock coat and top hat whom Carhart recognized as Vice-president
Chambers. After them came a party of ladies and one or two young men to whom
Tiffany was explaining the methods of construction. It seemed that Mr. Chambers
had thought it worth while to adopt Tiffany’s suggestion that the vast
quantities of dry bones in the desert be gathered up and shipped eastward to be
ground up into fertilizer. Carhart was presented to Mrs. Chambers and to the two
Misses Chambers and the other young women. He took them in with a glance, then
looked down over his own outrageously attired person and restrained a smile.
Tiffany was the one he wished to see, and he told him so with a barely
perceptible motion of the head. Tiffany caught the signal, made his excuses, and
walked off with this dusty, inconspicuous man on whose shoulders rested the
welfare of the whole Sherman and Western system. He had observed that the young
women drew instinctively away from the dingy figure, and his smile was not
restrained. He was thinking of his first meeting with Paul Carhart, in Chicago,
--it was at the farewell dinner to the Dutch engineers,--and of his
distinguished appearance as he rose to speak, and of his delightfully humorous
enumeration of the qualities required in an American engineer. Thinking of these
things he almost spoke aloud: “And they never knew the difference,--not a
blessed one of ’em! Even Mrs. Chambers don’t know a gentleman without he’s
tagged. Ain’t it funny!” And the chief engineer of the S. & W., being a blunt,
and not at all a subtle man, wisely gave up the eternal question. “Look here,
Tiffany,” Carhart began, “something’s going to happen to this man Peet.”

Tiffany plucked a straw from a convenient bale, and began meditatively to chew
it. “I haven’t got a word to say, Carhart. You’ve got a clear case against us,
and I guess I can’t object if you take it out of me.”

“No; I understand the thing pretty well, Tiffany. You’re doing what you can, but
Peet isn’t.”

“Are you sure about that?”

“Perfectly.”

“He’s having the devil’s own time himself, Carhart. The mills are going back on
us steady with the rails. They just naturally don’t ship ’em. I’m beginning to
think they don’t want to ship ’em.”

Carhart stopped short, plunged in thought. “Maybe you’re right,” he said after a
moment. “I hadn’t thought of that before.”

“No, you oughtn’t to have to think of it. That’s our business, but it’s been
worrying us considerable. Then there’s the connections, too. The rails have to
come into Sherman by way of the Queen and Cumberland,--a long way ‘round--”

“And the Queen and Cumberland has ‘Commodore Durfee’ written all over it.”

“Yes, I guess it has.”

“And knowing that, you fellows have been sitting around waiting for the
Commodore to deliver your material. No, Tiffany, don’t tell me that; I hate to
think it of you.”

“I know we’re a pack of fools, Carhart, but--” the sentence died out. “But what
can we do, man? We can’t draw a new map of the United States, can we? We’ve got
our orders from the old man--!”

[Illustration: “‘Look here, Tiffany,’ Carhart began, ‘something’s going to
happen to this man Peet.’”]

“Could you have the stuff sent around by the Coast and Crescent, and transferred
over to Sherman by wagon?”

“Wait a minute; who owns the Coast and Crescent? Who’s got it all buttoned up in
his pants pocket?”

“Oh,” said Carhart. They stood for a little while, then sat down on a pile of
culls which had been brought up by the tie squad for supporting tent floors. “It
begins to occur to me,” Carhart went on, “that we are working under the nerviest
president that ever--But perhaps he can’t help it. He’s fixed pretty much as
Washington was in the New Jersey campaign; he’s surrounded by the enemy and he’s
got to fight out.”

“That’s it, exactly,” cried Tiffany. “He’s got to cut his way out. He ain’t a
practical railroad man, and he’s just ordered us to do it for him. Don’t you see
our fix?”

“Yes,” Carhart mused, “I see well enough. Look here, Tiffany; how far can I go
in this business,--extra expenses, and that sort of things?”

Tiffany’s face became very expressive. “Well,” he said, “I guess if you can beat
the H. D. & W. to Red Hills there won’t be any questions asked. If you can’t
beat ’em, we’ll all catch hell. Why, what are you thinking of doing?”

“Not a thing. My mind’s a blank.”

From Tiffany’s expression it was plain that he was uncertain whether to believe
this or not. “It comes to about this,” Carhart went on. “It all rests on me, and
if I’m willing to run chances, I might as well run ’em.”

Tiffany’s eyes were searching the lean, spectacled face. “I guess it’s for you
to decide,” he replied. “I don’t know what else Mr. Chambers was thinking of
when he the same as told me to leave you be.”

“By the way, Tiffany,”--Carhart was going through his pockets,--“how long is it
since you people left Sherman?”

“More than a week. Mr. Chambers wanted some shooting on the way out.”

“Do you suppose he knows about this?” And Carhart produced the torn sheet of the
_Pierrepont Enterprise_. Tiffany read the headlines, and slowly shook his head.
“I’m sure he don’t. There was no such story around Sherman when we left. But we
found a message waiting here to-day, asking Mr. Chambers to hurry back; very
likely it’s about this.”

“If it were true, if Commodore Durfee does own the line, what effect would it
have on my work here?”

“Not a bit! Not a d--n bit!” Tiffany’s big hand came down on his knee with a
bang. “This line belongs to Daniel De Reamer, and Old Durfee’s thievery and low
tricks and kept judges don’t go at Sherman, or here neither. It’s jugglery, the
whole business; there ain’t anything honest about it.” Carhart looked away, and
again restrained a smile; he was thinking of where the money came from. “And
I’ll tell you this,” Tiffany concluded, “if anybody comes into my office and
tries to take possession for Old Durfee, I’ll say, ‘Hold on, my friend, who
signed that paper you’ve got there?’ And if I find it ain’t signed by five
judges--_five_, mind!--of the Supreme Court of the United States sittin’ in
Washington, I’ll say, ‘Get out of here!’ And if they won’t get out, I’ll kick
’em out. And there’s five hundred men in Sherman, a thousand men, who’ll help me
to do it. If it’s court business, I guess our judges are as good as theirs. And
if it comes to shooting, by God we’ll shoot!”

“I agree with you, on the whole,” said Carhart. “Mr. De Reamer and Mr. Chambers
have put me here to beat the H. D. & W. to Red Hills, and I’m going to do it.
But--”

“That’s the talk, man!”

“But let’s get back to Peet. He could help us a little if he felt like it. You
told me last month, Tiffany, that Peet had given you a list of the numbers of
all my supply cars, with an understanding that they wouldn’t be used for
anything else. Have you got that list with you?”

“No; it’s in my desk, at Sherman.”

“All right. I’ll call for it day after to-morrow.”

“At Sherman?”

“Yes. Peet isn’t sending those cars out here, and I’m going to find out where he
is sending them.”

“There’s one thing, Carhart,” said Tiffany, as they rose, “I’m sure Peet don’t
know how bad off you were for water. He was holding up the trains for material.”

“He ought to understand, Tiffany. I wired him to send the water anyway.”

“I know. But that would be wholesale murder. He didn’t realize--”

“I’m going to undertake the job of making him realize, Tiffany.”

The whistle of the vice-president’s special engine was tooting as they started
back. On the one hand, as far as human beings could be distinguished with the
naked eye, the groups and the long lines of laborers were shuffling to and from
their work on the grade; the picked men of the iron squad, muscular, deep
chested, were working side by side with the Mexicans and the negroes, as also
were the spikers and strappers and the men of the tie squad. On the other hand,
the ladies of the vice-president’s party were picking their way daintily back
toward Mr. Chambers’s private car, where savory odors and a white-clad chef
awaited them. Carhart had time only to wash his face and hands before rejoining
the party at the car steps. His clothing was downright disreputable, and he
wanted the physique, the height and breadth and muscle display, which alone can
give distinction to rough garments. Even his clean-cut face and reserved,
studious expression were not positive features, and could hardly triumph over
the obvious facts of his dress. Mrs. Chambers and the young women again glanced
toward him, and again they had nothing to say to him. To the truth that this
ugly, noisy scene was a resolving dissonance in the harmony of things, that this
rough person in spectacles was heroically forging a link in the world’s girdle,
these women were blind. They had been curious to come; and now that they were
here and were conscious of the dirtiness and meanness of the hundreds of men
about them, now that the gray hopelessness of the desert was getting on their
nerves, they were eager to go back. And so the bell rang, the driving-wheels
spun around, slipping under the coughing engine, the car began to rumble
forward, the ladies bowed, the vice-president, taking a last look at things from
the rear platform, nodded a good-by, and the incident was closed. *       *
*       *       *

There were a number of things for Carhart to attend to after he had eaten supper
and dressed, and before he could get away,--some of which will have to find a
place in a later chapter,--and it was eleven o’clock at night when he finally
put aside his maps and reports. He then wrote a note to Scribner, telling the
engineer of the second division that the last report of his pile inspector was
not satisfactory,--the third bent in the trestle over Tiffany Hollow on “mile
fifty-two” showed insufficient resistance. He left for Young Van’s attention a
pile of letters with memoranda for the replies. He sent for Old Van, and went
over with him the condition of the work on the first division. And finally he
wrote the following letter to John Flint:--

DEAR JOHN: I’m sending forward to-morrow the extra cable and     the wheelers
you asked for. I have to run back to Sherman     to-night, possibly for a week
or so, but there’ll be time     enough to look over your plans for cutting and
filling on the     west bank when I get back. I haven’t figured it out yet, but
I’m inclined to agree with you that we can make more of a fill     there. But
I’ll write you again about it. Thanks to our friend Peet I nearly killed Texas
on a ride for      water. Got to have another riding horse sent out here. My
assistant’s pony had to be shot--that little brown beauty I      pointed out to
you the morning you started, with the white      star. Yours,

P. C.

P. S. By the way, that Wall-street fight was only the opening      skirmish. The
Commodore is raiding S. & W. for business. I      guess you know how he does
these things. The _Pierrepont      Enterprise_ says he has already got control
of the board, so      it will probably be our turn next. If you haven’t plenty
of      weapons, you’d better order what you need at Red Hills right      away.
And don’t forget that you’re working for Daniel De      Reamer. P. C.

He folded the letter, slipped it into an envelope, addressed it, and then tipped
back and ran his long fingers through his hair. He was surprised to find that
his forehead was beaded with sweat. “Lovely climate, this,” he said to himself;
adding after a moment, “Now what have I forgotten?” For several minutes he
balanced there, supporting himself by resting the fingers of one hand against a
tall case labelled, “A B C Spool Cotton,” in the flat, glass-fronted drawers of
which he kept his maps and papers. Finally he muttered, “Well, if I have
forgotten anything, I’ve forgotten it for good,” and the front legs of his chair
came down, and he reached across the table for his hat. But instead of rising,
he lingered, fingering the wide hat-brim. The yellow lamplight fell gently on
his face, now leaner than ever. “I wonder what they think a man is made of,”
thought he. “Nothing very valuable, I guess, from what an engineer gets paid.
I’m in the wrong business. It’s my sort of man who does the work, and it’s the
speculators and that sort who get the money,--God help ’em!” Again he made as if
to rise, and again he paused. “Oh!” he said, “of course, that was it.” He
clapped his hat on the back of his head, reached out for a letter which he had
that evening written to Mrs. Carhart, opened the envelope, and added these
words:--

“Have Thomas Nelson plant the nasturtiums along the back fence. There isn’t
enough sunshine out in front for anything but the     honeysuckle and the
Dutchman’s pipe. And he’d better screen the     fence with golden glow, set out
pretty thick the whole way,     between the nasturtiums and the fence. The crab-
apple tree will     be in the way, but it’s so near dead that he’d better cut it
down. I like your other arrangements first rate.”

This, and a few other east-bound letters, he put in his handbag. Then he looked
at his watch. “Hello!” said he, “it’s to-morrow morning.” He pulled his hat
forward, took up the lamp, and stepped out through the tent opening, holding the
lamp high and looking down, through the night, toward the track. The silence, in
spite of a throbbing locomotive, or perhaps because of it, was almost
overwhelming. There was not a cloud in the sky; the stars were twinkling down.
“How horribly patient it is,” he thought. “We’re slap bang up against the
Almighty.”

“Toot! Too-oo-oot!” came from the throbbing locomotive. “All right, sir!” he
muttered. “Be with you in a minute.”

He went back into the tent, put down the lamp, picked up his handbag, took a
last look around, and then blew out the lamp and set off down the slope to the
track. The engineer was hanging out of his cab. “All ready, Mr. Carhart?”

“All ready, Bill.” The chief caught the hand-rail of _his_ private car, tossed
his bag to the platform, and swung himself up after it. “You was in something of
a hurry, Mr. Carhart?”

“In a little of a hurry, yes, Bill.”

They started off, rocking and bumping over the new track, and Carhart began
stripping off his clothes. “It isn’t exactly like Mr. Chambers’s,” he said, “but
I guess I’ll be able to get in a little sleep; that is, if Bill doesn’t smash me
up, or jolt me to death.”

*       *       *       *       *

Three days later, at five o’clock in the afternoon, Carhart was writing a letter
in the office of the “Eagle House,” at Sherman. Sitting in rows along three
sides of the room was perhaps a score of men, and in a corner by herself sat one
young woman. The men were a mixed assortment,--locomotive engineers,
photographers, travelling salesmen of tobacco, jewellery, shoes, clothing, and
small cutlery, not to speak of an itinerant dentist and a team of “champion
banjo and vocal artists.” As for the young woman, if you could have taken a peep
into the sample case at her feet, you would have learned that she was prepared
to disseminate a collection of literature which ranged from standard sets of
Dickens and Thackeray to a fat volume devoted to the songs and scenes of Old
Ireland, an illustrated life of the Pope, and a work on the character and the
splendid career of Porfirio Diaz. Outside, at the window, stood or sat another
score of men, each of whom bore the unmistakable dress and manner of the day
laborer. And every pair of eyes, within and without the smoky room, was fixed on
the back of the man who was writing a letter at the table in the corner. But
Carhart’s mind was wholly occupied with the work before him. He was travel-
stained,--it was not yet an hour since he had come in from Crockett, the nearest
division town on the H. D. & W.,--but there were few signs of weariness on his
face, and none at all in his eyes. “How much had I better tell him?” he was
asking himself. “I wonder what he is up to, anyway? Possibly he has an interest
in the lumber company, or maybe Durfee’s men have bought him up.” For several
minutes his pen occupied itself with dotting out a design on the blotter; then
suddenly a twinkle came into his eyes, and he wrote rapidly as follows:--

DEAR MR. PEET: I beg to enclose herewith a list of the cars     which were
assigned to me at the beginning of the construction     work. I am sure you will
agree with me that I can spare none of     these cars, least of all to supply a
rival line. And in     consideration of your future hearty cooperation with me
in     advancing this construction work, I will gladly take pains to     see
that my present knowledge of the use that has been made of     these cars shall
not interfere in any way with your continued     enjoyment of your position with
the Sherman and Western. Yours very truly,

P. CARHART. He folded the letter, then opened it and read it over. “Yes,” he
told himself, “it’s better to write it. Seeing the thing before him in black and
white may have a stimulating effect.” He found in his pocket the worn and
thumbed list of cars, enclosed it in his letter, addressed an envelope, and
looked around. At once he was beset by the agents and the applicants for work,
but he shoved through to the piazza, and called a boy. “Here, son,” he said, “do
you know Mr. Peet, of the railroad?”

The boy nodded. “Take this letter to him. If he isn’t in his office, go to his
house, but don’t come back until you have found him.”

“Will there be any answer?”

“No--no answer. Don’t give the letter to anybody but Mr. Peet himself. When you
have done that, come to me and get a quarter.”

The boy started off, and Carhart reëntered the building, slipped past the office
door, and walked up two flights of stairs to his room. “And now,” thought he, “I
guess a bath will feel about as good as anything.”

The Eagle House did not boast a bathroom, and so he set about the business in
the primitive fashion to which he had learned to adapt himself. He dragged in
from the hall a tin, high-backed tub, called down the stairway to the
proprietor’s wife for hot water, and, undressing, piled his clothes on the one
wooden chair in the room, taking care that they touched neither floor nor wall.
The hostess knocked, and left a steaming pitcher outside the door. And soon the
chief engineer of the Red Hills extension of the Shaky and Windy was splashing
merrily. The water proved so refreshing that he lingered in it, leaning
comfortably back and hanging his legs over the edge of the tub. And as was
always the case, when he had a respite from details, his mind began roving over
the broader problems of the work. “I’ve done a part of it,” he said to himself,
“but not enough. It won’t do any good to have the cars if we haven’t the
materials to put in ’em.” He had been absently pursuing the soap around the
bottom of the tub, had caught it, and was now sloping his hands into the water,
and letting the cake slide back into its element. There was a knock at the door.
Carhart looked up with half a start. “Well, what is it?”

“It’s me, sir,” came from the hall. “Who’s me?”

“The boy that took your letter.”

“Well, what about it? There was no answer.”

“But there _is_ an answer, Mr. Carhart. Mr. Peet came back with me.”

“What’s that?”

“He’s here--he came back with me. He’s waiting downstairs.”

Carhart hesitated. “Well--tell him that I’m very sorry, but I can’t see him. I’m
taking a bath.”

“All right,” said the boy; and Carhart heard him go off down the stairs. For
some little time longer he sat in the tub. His mind slipped again into the
accustomed channel. “If it does come to warfare,” he was thinking, “the first
thing they’ll do will be to cut me off from my base. They’d know that I shall be
near enough to Red Hills to get food through from there by wagon,--that’s what I
should have to do,--but there won’t be any rails coming from Red Hills. I’m
afraid--very much afraid--that Durfee has got us, cold. That’s the whole trick.
If he’s going to seize the S. & W., he’ll cut me off first thing. There’s five
to six hundred miles of track between the job and Sherman. It would take an army
to guard it. And that much done, he’d be in a position to take his time about
completing the H. D. & W. to Red Hills.”

And then suddenly he got out of the tub, snatched up a towel, and, half dry,
began hurriedly to draw on his clothes. A moment later a thin, spectacled,
collarless man darted out of a room on the third floor of the Eagle House,
looked quickly up and down the hall, ran halfway down the stairs, and leaned
over the balustrade. “Boy,” he said. “Yes, sir.”

“You didn’t get your quarter.” But it was a half dollar that he tossed into the
waiting hands. “Run after Mr. Peet and bring him back here. Mind you catch him.”

The boy started to obey, but in a moment he was back and knocking at Carhart’s
door. “He’s down in the office now, Mr. Carhart. He didn’t go at all.”

“He didn’t, eh?” The engineer was standing before the cracked mirror, brushing
his hair. “All right, I’ll be down in a minute. Hold on there!” He stepped to
the door. The first coin his fingers encountered in his pocket was another half
dollar. He took it out without glancing at it and handed it to the now
bewildered boy. Then he returned to the mirror and brushed his hair again, and
put on his collar and tie. “I’ll have to thank Tiffany,” ran his thoughts. “It’s
odd how that car-stealing story has stuck in my head. I’m glad he told it.”

Peet’s expression was not what might be termed complacent. He was standing on
the piazza when he heard Carhart’s quick step on the stairs. His teeth were
closed tightly on a cigar, but he was not smoking. “How are you, Mr. Peet?” said
the engineer. Peet looked nervously about and behind him, and then faced around.
“Look here, Mr. Carhart, I want to tell you that you haven’t got that
straight--”

“Where’s Tiffany?” said Carhart. At this interruption Peet turned, if anything,
a shade redder. “He’s gone home.”

“Let’s find him. Would you mind walking over there?”

“Certainly not,” Peet replied; and for a moment they walked in silence. Then the
superintendent broke out again. “You didn’t understand about those cars, Mr.
Carhart. I know--the boys have told me--that you’ve thought some hard things
about me--” He paused: perhaps he had better keep his mouth shut. As for
Carhart, he was striding easily along, the hint of a smile playing about the
corners of his mouth. “I think I understand the situation pretty well, Peet,” he
said. “I was a little stirred up when my men began to go thirsty, but that’s all
past, and I’m going to drop it. I guess we both understand that this
construction is the most important thing Mr. De Reamer has on hand these days.
And if we’re going to carry him through, we’ll have to pull together.”

They found Tiffany, coat thrown aside, hat tipped back, weeding his garden.
“Come in--glad to see you,” he said, only half concealing his curiosity over the
spectacle of Carhart and Peet walking together in amity. “Didn’t succeed in
getting back, eh, Carhart?”

“Not yet, Tiffany. I had to run up to Crockett.” He said this in an offhand
manner, and he did not look at Peet; but he knew from the expression on
Tiffany’s face that the superintendent was turning red again. “You ain’t had
supper, have you?” said Tiffany. “You’re just in time to eat with us.”

“Supper!” Carhart repeated the word in some surprise, then looked at his watch.
“You hadn’t forgotten it, had you?” Tiffany grinned. “To tell the truth, I had.
May we really eat with you? It will save us some time.”

“Can you? Well, I wonder! Come in.” And taking up his coat, Tiffany led the way
into the house. More than once during that meal did Tiffany’s eyes flit from
Peet’s half-bewildered countenance to that of the quiet, good-natured Carhart.
He asked no questions, but he wondered. Once he thought that Peet threw him an
inquiring glance, but he could not be certain. After supper, as he reached for
the toothpicks and pushed back his chair, he was tempted to come out with the
question which was on his mind, “What in the devil are you up to, Carhart?” But
what he really said was, “Help yourselves to the cigars, boys. They’re in that
jar, there.”

And then, for a moment, both Peet and Tiffany sat back and watched Carhart while
he lighted his cigar, turned it over thoughtfully, shook the match, and dropped
it with a little sputter into his coffee cup. Then the man who was building the
Red Hills extension got, with some deliberation, to his feet, and turned toward
Tiffany. “Would it spoil your smoke to take it while we walk?” he asked. “Not at
all,” replied the host. “Where are we going?”

“To the yards.”

Peet, for no reason whatever, went red again; and Tiffany, tipped back in his
chair and slowly puffing at his cigar, looked at him. Then he too got up, and
the three men left the house together. And during all the walk out to the
freight depot, Carhart talked about the new saddle-horse he had bought at
Crockett. The freight yard at Sherman extended nearly a mile, beginning with the
siding by the depot and expanding farther on to the width of a dozen tracks.
Carhart came to a halt at the point where the tangle of switches began, and
looked about him. Everywhere he saw cars, some laden, some empty. A fussy little
engine was coughing down the track, whistling angrily at a sow and her litter of
spotted, muddy-yellow pigs which had been sleeping in a row between the rails.
From the roundhouse, off to the left, arose the smoke of five or six resting
locomotives. Nearer at hand, seated in a row on the handle of the turn-table,
were as many black negroes, laughing and showing their teeth and eyeballs, and
discussing with much gesticulation and some amiable heat the question of the
day. Carhart’s sweeping glance took in the scene, then his interest centred on
the cars. Peet fidgeted. “There ain’t any of your cars here, Mr. Carhart,” he
said uneasily. Already Carhart knew better, but he was not here to squabble with
Peet. “How many have you here all together?” he asked; and after a moment of
rapid counting he answered his own question: “Something more than a hundred,
eh?”

“Yes, but--”

“Well, what?”

“Look here, Carhart, I don’t know what you’ve got in mind, but I can’t let you
have any of these cars.”

“You can’t?”

“Not possibly. Half of ’em are foreign as it is. I’m so short now I don’t know
what I’m going to do. Honest, I don’t.”

Carhart turned this answer over in his mind. After a moment he looked up, first
at Peet, then at Tiffany, as if he had something to say; but whatever it may
have been, he turned away without saying it. “What is it, old man?” cried
Tiffany, at last. “What can we do for you, anyway?”

Still Carhart did not speak. His eyes again sought the long lines of cars.
Finally, resting one foot on a projecting cross-tie, he turned to the
superintendent. “Suppose you do this, Peet,” he said, speaking slowly; “suppose
you tell your yard-master that I am to be absolute boss here until midnight.
Then you go home and leave me here. Tiffany could stay and help me out--this
isn’t his department.”

This brought Peet close to the outer limit of bewilderment. “What in--” he
began; but Carhart, observing the effect of his request, interrupted. “I don’t
believe Mr. Peet understands the situation very well, Tiffany. Tell him where we
stand--where Mr. De Reamer stands.” And with this he walked off a little way.
Tiffany came to the point. To Peet’s question, “What is he talking about,
Tiffany?” the veteran replied: “He knows and I know, Lou, that the only thing
that will save the old man is a track to Red Hills. I haven’t the slightest idea
what Carhart’s up to, but I’ll tell you this, I’ve seen him in one or two tight
places, and I never saw him look like this before. He’s got something he wants
to do, and he’s decided that it’s necessary, and it ain’t for you and me to
stand in his way. When you come to know Paul Carhart, you’ll learn that he don’t
do things careless. What do you suppose the Old Man meant when he told you to
back him up to the limit with cars and engines, and told me to keep out of his
way?”

Peet did not reply for a moment. He took off his hat and brushed back the hair
from a forehead that was moist with sweat. He looked from one man to the other,
and from both to the roundhouse, and the depot, and the waiting cars. Finally he
walked over toward Carhart. “Go ahead,” he said queerly, “I’ll stay with you.”

“Good enough.” And with these two words Carhart wheeled around and surveyed the
nearest line of cars--box, flat, and gondola. “Most of those are empty, aren’t
they?” he asked. “About half of them. But here’s Dougherty, the yard-master.
Dougherty, this is Mr. Carhart. You can take your orders from him to-night.”

Carhart extended his hand. “Glad to meet you, Mr. Dougherty. I’m afraid we’ll
all have to make a night of it. I want you to keep steam up in three engines.
And pick up all the men you can find and start them unloading every car in the
yard. Keep ’em jumping. I want to have three empty trains at Paradise by
midnight.”

“By mid--” Dougherty’s mouth opened a very little, and his eyes, after taking in
Paul Carhart’s face and figure, settled on the superintendent. But Peet, with an
expressive movement of his hands, turned away; and Tiffany, after a glance about
the little group, went after him. “Brace up, Lou,” said Tiffany, in a low voice;
“brace up.”

Peet’s hands were deep in his pockets. His eyes were fixed on the rails before
him. “Dump all that freight on the ground!” he moaned. “Look here, Tiffany, I
suppose he knows what he’s doing, but--but what’ll the traffic men say!”

“Never you mind the traffic men.”

“But--dump all that freight out here _on the ground_!”

Tiffany passed an unsteady hand across his eyes. If Peet had looked at him, he
would not have felt reassured; but he did not look up. Dougherty, with a gulp,
obeyed Carhart. And half an hour later the chance observers and the yard loafers
were rubbing their eyes. Laborers were busy from one end of the yard to the
other, throwing out boxes and bales and crates, and piling them haphazard
between the tracks. The tired, wheezy switch engine, enveloped in a cloud of its
own steam, was laboriously making up the first train. And moving quietly about,
issuing orders and giving a hand here and there, followed by the disturbed eyes
of the general superintendent and the chief engineer of the Shaky and Windy,
Paul Carhart was bossing the work. Once he stepped over to the two men of the
disturbed eyes, a thoughtful expression on his own face. “Say, Tiffany,” he
asked, “how much business does the Paradise Southern do?”

Tiffany started, and looked keenly at Carhart. There was a faint glimmer in his
eyes, but this was followed immediately by uncertainty. “None,” he replied;
“that is, none to speak of. They run a combination car each way every day--two
cars when business is brisk. The Old Man would have abandoned it years ago if it
hadn’t been for the stock scheme I told you about.”

“Yes,” mused Carhart, “that’s what I understood. But if it’s such a mistake, why
was it built in the first place?”

“Oh, they were going to run it through to Bonavita on the Emerald River, but the
B. & G. got all there was of that business first, and so the P. S. never got
beyond Total Wreck. Mr. De Reamer never built it. The old Shipleigh crowd did
that before Mr. De Reamer bought up this property.” The faint glimmer had
returned to Tiffany’s eyes; he was searching Carhart’s face. “You want these
trains sent on through to your camp, don’t you?” he asked abruptly. “No, they
are to go down over the P. S.”

Tiffany’s expression was growing almost painful. Carhart went on. “There are
sidings at Total Wreck, aren’t there, Peet?” he asked. “Oh, yes, quite a yard
there; but it’s badly run down.”

“What other sidings are there along the line?”

“Long ones at Yellow House and Dusty Bend.”

“How long?”

“Nearly two miles each.”

“How long is the line?”

“Forty-five miles.”

“Good Lord!” The exclamation was Tiffany’s. He was staring at Carhart with an
expression of such mingled astonishment, incredulity, and expansive delight,
that Peet’s curiosity broke its bounds. “For God’s sake, Tiffany,” he cried,
“what is it? What’s he going to do?”

But Tiffany did not hear. He was gazing at Paul Carhart, saying incoherent
things to him, and bringing down a heavy hand on his shoulder. He was somewhat
frightened--never before, even in his own emphatic life, had his routine notions
received such a wrench--but his eyes were shining. “Lord! Lord!” he was saying,
“but there’ll be swearing in Sherman to-morrow.”

“The time has come when I ought to know what”--this from the purple Peet. “Don’t
ask him, Lou,” cried Tiffany, “don’t ask him. If we smash, it won’t be your
fault. Ain’t that right, Paul?”

“Yes,” replied Carhart, “it is just right. Don’t ask any questions, Peet, and
don’t give me away. I don’t want any swearing in Sherman to-morrow. I don’t want
a whisper of this to get out for a week--not for a month if we can keep it
under.”

Tiffany quieted down; grew thoughtful. “It will take a lot of men, Paul. How can
you prevent a leak?”

“I’m going to take them all West with me afterward.”

“I see. That’s right--that’s right! And the station agents and train crews and
switchmen--yes, I see. You’ll take ’em all.”

“Every man,” replied Carhart, quietly. “If necessary, you’ll take ’em under
guard.”

Carhart smiled a very little. “If necessary,” he replied. “You’ll want some good
men,” mused Tiffany. “I’ll tell you,--suppose you leave that part of it to me.
It’s now,--let’s see,--seven-forty. It won’t be any use starting your first
train until you’ve got the men to do the work. I’ll need a little time, but if
you’ll give me an hour and half to two hours, say until nine-thirty, I’ll have
your outfit ready. I’ll send some of my assistants along with you, and a bunch
of our brakemen and switchmen. There’ll be the commissariat to look out for too,
--you see to all that, Lou, will you?”

Peet inclined his head. “For how many men?” he asked. “Oh, five hundred, anyway,
before we get through with it.” Nothing could surprise the superintendent now.
He merely nodded. “And rifles,” Tiffany added. “You’ll want a case of ’em.”

“No,” said Carhart, “I shan’t need any rifles for the P. S., but I want five
hundred more at the end of the track, and, say ten thousand rounds of ball
cartridges. Will you see to that, Peet?”

The superintendent grunted out, “Who’s paying for all this?” and then as neither
of the others took the trouble to reply, he subsided. “All right, then,” said
Tiffany. “I’ll have your crew here--enough for the first train, anyhow. You can
trust to picking up fifty or a hundred laborers in the neighborhood of Paradise.
See you later.” And with this, the chief engineer took his big person away at a
rapid walk. Carhart turned to Peet and extended his hand. Dusk was falling. The
headlights of the locomotives threw their yellow beams up the yard. Switch
lights were shining red and white, and lanterns, in the hands of shadowy
figures, were bobbing here and there. There was a great racket about them of
bumping cars and squeaking brakes, and of shouting and the blowing off of
locomotives. “I don’t blame you for thinking that everything’s going to the
devil, Peet,” said Carhart. “But I don’t believe they’ve let you in on the
situation. If I’m running risks, it’s because we’ve got to run risks.”

Peet hesitated, then accepted the proffered hand. “I suppose it’s all right,” he
replied. “Tiffany seems to agree with you, and he generally knows what he’s
about. But--” he paused. They were standing by a heap of merchandise. The heap
was capped by a dozen crates of chickens which, awakened from their sleep, were
fluttering about within their narrow coop and clucking angrily. He waved his
hand. “Think of what this means to our business,” he said. Carhart listened for
a moment, then looked back to Peet. “If I were sure it would come to nothing
worse than a slight disarrangement of your business, I’d sleep easy to-night.”

“It’s as bad as that, is it?”

“Yes,” Carhart replied, “it’s as bad as that. If I lose, no matter how the fight
in the board turns out, you know what it will mean--no more De Reamer and
Chambers men on the S. & W. Every De Reamer fireman and brakeman will go. It’ll
be a long vacation for the bunch of you.”

Peet was silent. And then, standing there where he had so often and so
heedlessly stood before, his sordid, moderately capable mind was torn
unexpectedly loose from its well-worn grooves and thrown out to drift on a
tossing sea of emotion and of romantic adventure. The breathlessness of the
scene was borne in on his consciousness on a wave that almost took away his
breath. Carhart was the sort of man whom he could not understand at all. He knew
this now, or something near enough to it, clear down to the bottom of his
subconscious self. And when he turned and looked at the thin man of the
masterful hand, it was with a change of manner. “All right,” he said, “go ahead.
Just say what you want me to do.”

At five minutes to ten that night a locomotive lay, the steam roaring in clouds
through her safety valve, on the siding by the freight depot; and stretching off
behind her was a long string of empties. Carhart, Tiffany, and Peet, walking up
alongside the train, could distinguish, through the dark, men sitting on brake
wheels, or swinging their legs out of box-car doors or standing in groups in the
gondola cars. Once, during a brief lull in the noise of the yard, they heard a
gentle snore which was issuing from the dark recesses of one of the box-cars.
The three men halted beside the locomotive. “You’d better go, Paul,” said
Tiffany. Carhart looked at Peet. “I’ll rely on you to keep things coming,” he
said. “Go ahead,” replied the superintendent. “I’ll have the three trains and
all the men at Paradise before morning.”

“And we’ll look out for the commissariat too, Paul,” added Tiffany. “All right,”
said Carhart. “But there’s another thing, Peet. I haven’t cars enough yet. As
soon as enough come in to make up another train, send it out to me.”

“That’ll be sometime to-morrow afternoon, likely,” Peet replied soberly. Carhart
nodded, shook hands with the two men, and mounted to the engine. “Go ahead,”
said Peet. “You’ve got a clear track.”

The whistle blew. Somewhere back in the night a speck of light swung up in a
quarter circle. The engineer opened his throttle. “Bong Voyage to the Paradise
Unlimited!” said Tiffany. *       *       *       *       *

Carhart was not surprised, when the third train rolled into Paradise on that
following morning, to see Tiffany descending from the caboose. Between them they
lost no time in completing the preparations for the journey down to Total Wreck.
Of the two regular trains on the line, No. 3, southbound, was held at Paradise,
and the lone passenger was carried down on Carhart’s train; the northbound
train, No. 4, was stopped at Dusty Bend. Then for a time a series of remarkable
scenes took place along the right of way of the Paradise Southern. Men by the
hundred, all seemingly bent on destruction, swarmed over the line and tore it to
pieces. Trains ran north and west laden with rusty old rails, switches, ancient
cross-ties of questionable durability, with everything, as Carhart had ordered,
excepting the sand and clay ballast. “Some poor devils lost their little
fortunes in the old P. S.” said Tiffany, on the first morning, as the two
engineers stood looking at the work of ruin. “I sort of hate to see it go.”

Carhart himself went West on the first train, leaving Tiffany to carry the work
through. He was satisfied that everything would from now on work smoothly at
Paradise and Sherman, and he knew that not a man of those on the work would slip
through Tiffany’s fingers to bear tales back to civilization of the wild doings
on the frontier. At Sherman they said that owing to insufficient business the P.
S. trains would be discontinued for a time, and no one was surprised at the
news. Far off in New York, in the Broad Street office of Daniel De Reamer, it
was some time before they knew anything about it. The little world was rolling
on. Men were clasping hands, buying and selling, knifing and shooting. Durfee’s
plans were marching forward, as his plans had a way of doing. De Reamer’s mind
was coiling and uncoiling in its subterranean depths. General Carrington was
talking about a hunting trip into the mountains with pack-animals and good
company and many, many bottles. Yes, the world was rolling on about as usual;
but the Paradise Southern was no more. Forty-five miles of grade, trampled, tie-
marked; a few dismantled sheds which had once been known as stations; a lonely
row of telegraph poles stretching from one bleak horizon to another; a rickety
roundhouse or two: this was all that was left of a railroad: this, and a long
memory of disaster, and an excited ranchman at Total Wreck who was telegraphing
hotly to his lawyer. CHAPTER VII

THE SPIRIT OF THE JOB

In order to make plain what was taking place at the main camp during Carhart’s
absence, we must go back to that evening during which so many things had come up
to be disposed of before the chief could leave for Sherman and Crockett and
Paradise. To begin with, Dimond came riding in at dusk with a canteen of clear
water which he laid on the table about which the engineers were sitting. To
Carhart, when he had unscrewed the cap and taken a deep draught, it tasted like
Apollinaris. “First rate!” he exclaimed; “first rate!” Then he passed it to Old
Van, who smacked his lips over it. “Where did he find this?” Carhart asked.
“Eighteen or twenty miles ahead.”

“Plenty of it?”

“He thinks so,” he says, “but he’s gone on to find more.”

“Are the Apaches bothering him?”

“We’ve had a pop at ’em now and then. He says he hopes to have some beadwork for
you when he sees you again. There was one fellow came too near one night, and
Mr. Scribner hit him, but the others carried him off before we could get the
beads. He sent me back to guide the wagons to the well if you want to send ’em.”

“Well,” said Carhart, when Dimond had gone, “we have water now, anyway. The next
question is about these thieves. You say that five animals were stolen while I
was away. When the first roads went through, they had regular troops to guard
the work, and I don’t know that we can improve on the plan. I’ll look the matter
up when I get to Sherman.”

But an hour later, when he left his division engineer and stepped outside for a
last look at “Texas,” he found Charlie hanging about near the stable tent. The
cook approached him, and made it awkwardly but firmly plain that he had heard a
rumor to the effect that Mr. Carhart was going to Sherman for regular troops,
and that, if the rumor were true, he, Charlie, would leave. No questions were
necessary, for Carhart had never thought Jack Flagg the only deserter in camp.
He mused a moment; then he looked up thoughtfully at the tall, loose-jointed,
but well-set-up figure of the cook. “Do you know anything about military drill
and sentry duties?” he asked abruptly. Charlie, taken aback, hesitated. “Never
mind answering. We’ll say that you do. Now, if I were to put you in charge of
the business, give you all the men and rifles you need, could you guarantee to
guard this camp?”

Charlie’s face wore a curious mixture of expressions. “Well, speak up.”

“I rather guess I could.”

“I can depend on you, can I?”

“You won’t get the regulars, then?”

“No, I won’t get them.”

“Then you can depend on me.”

“I want you to get about it this morning. Mr. Gus Vandervelt will give you
everything you need. Make the watches short and distribute them among a good
many of the men, so that nobody will be worked too hard.”

Carhart passed on, and let himself into the covered enclosure where his horse
lay sick. It was a quarter of an hour before he returned to the headquarters
tent, to find Vandervelt standing in silence at the table. Apparently he had
risen to leave, and had paused at the sound of a step outside. Standing for a
moment at the tent entrance, Carhart’s eyes took on the curious expression which
the sight of the elder of the oddly assorted brothers frequently aroused there.
The lamplight threw upward shadows on Old Van’s face and deepened the gloom
about his eyes. A moment and Carhart, sobering, stepped inside. Certain memories
of Old Van’s strange career came floating through his thoughts. It was probably
the last time they would be thrown together. Considering everything, he would
not again feel like choosing him for an assistant. Yet he admired Old Van’s
strong qualities, and--he was sorry, very sorry. “Van,” he said, “I’ve changed
my mind about the troops. I’ve told Charlie, the cook, to organize an effective
system of guards at night, and I’ve told him, too, that he will take his orders
from Gus.”

Vandervelt stood motionless, looking at this man who had risen to be his chief,
and his color slowly turned from bronze to red. “From Gus, eh?” he said with a
slight huskiness. “Yes,” replied Carhart, steadily, “from Gus. He will represent
me while I am gone. It will be only a day or so before he’ll be around.”

Old Van might have answered roughly; instead he dropped his eyes. But Carhart’s
unpleasant duty was not yet done. “One thing more, Van,” he said, looking
quietly at the older man, but unable to conceal a certain tension in his speech,
“are you carrying a gun?”

There was a long silence. Every one of the faint evening camp sounds fell loud
on their ears. A puff of wind shook the tent flaps and stirred the papers on the
table. The lamp flickered. Very slowly, without looking up, Old Van reached back
to his hip pocket, drew out a revolver, laid it on the table,--laid it, oddly
enough, on a copy of the Book of Common Prayer which was acting as a
paperweight, and left the tent and went off down the grade. And for some time
after his footfalls had died away Carhart sat with elbows on table, chin on
hands, looking at the weapon. *       *       *       *       *

Paul Carhart was gone. It would probably be a week to ten days before he would
be able to get back to the track-end. And with him had gone the spirit of the
work, the vitality and dash which had worked out at moments through the
assistants and the men in a stirring sense of achievement, which had given to
each young engineer and engineer’s assistant a touch of the glow of creating
something, which had made this ugly scene almost beautiful. That steam-leaking
locomotive and that rattle-trap of a “private car,” bearing the chief away into
the dawn, left a sense of depression behind it. By noon of the following day,
Old Van was growing noticeably morose. By mid-afternoon every man of the
thousand felt the difference. Before supper time the heat, the gloom, the
loneliness of the desert, the sense of a dead pull on the work, the queer
thought that there was no such place as Red Hills anywhere on the map, and that
even if there were, the western extension of the Shaky and Windy would never
reach it, these thoughts were preying on them, particularly on Young Van, who
was up and at work soon after noon. Through the second day it was worse. Young
Van made stout efforts to throw more energy into his work, and then, in looking
back on these efforts, recognized in them a confession of weakness. Paul Carhart
never seemed to drive as he had been driving,--his work was always the same. In
this frame of mind the young man, at evening, mounted a hummock to survey what
had been accomplished during the day. But to his altered eyes the track was no
longer a link in the world’s girdle; it was only a thin line of dirt and wood
and steel, on which a thousand dispirited men had been toiling. Later he saw
Charlie bringing the wagons into corral. He heard his brother ordering the cook
sharply about, and he noted how doggedly the orders were obeyed. Then, finally,
having laid out the details of the morrow’s work and smoked an unresponsive
cigarette or two, he went to sleep. Old Van sat up later. And Charlie sat up
later still, nearly all night in fact. He found a comfortable lounging place
near Dimond’s post, in the shadow of the empty train. The grade was here
slightly elevated, and, lying on one elbow, he could survey the camp. Now and
then he made the rounds, looking after the half-dozen sentries whom he had
posted on knolls outside the wide circle of tents and wagons, making sure that
there was no drinking and that his men were advised as to their duties and
responsibilities. Between trips he lay back, surrounded by a number of wide-
awake laborers, and listened while Dimond recited the prowess of their chief. It
was very comfortable there, stretched out upon the newly turned earth. The camp
was very quiet. Only a few lights twinkled here and there, and it was not very
late when these went out, one by one. “I heard Mr. Scribner telling, the other
day,” said Dimond, “how the boss run up against a farmer with a shotgun when he
was running the line for the M. T. S. Mr. Scribner was a boy then, carrying
stakes for him. There was quite a bunch of ’em, but nobody had a gun. They come
out of a piece of woods on to the road, and there they see the farmer standing
just inside his stump fence with the two barrels of his shotgun resting on the
top of one of the stumps. Mr. Scribner says the old fellow was that excited he
hollered so they could ‘a’ heard ’im half a mile off. ‘Don’t you dare cross the
line of my property!’ he yells. ‘The first man that crosses the line of my
property’s a dead man!’ They all stopped, Mr. Scribner says, for they didn’t any
of ’em feel particularly like taking in a barrel or so of buckshot. But Mr.
Carhart wasn’t ever very easy to stop. He just looked at the fellow a minute,
and then he went right for him. ‘Look out!’ the man yells. ‘You cross the line
of my property and you’re a dead man!’ But Mr. Carhart went right on over the
fence. ‘That’s all right,’ says he, ‘but you can’t get away with more’n one or
two of us, and there’ll be enough left to hang you up to that tree over there.’
And the next thing they knew, Mr. Scribner says, Mr. Carhart had took the
shotgun right out of the farmer’s hands.”

Dimond had other stories. “I guess there ain’t nobody ever found it easy to get
around him. Once when he was a kid surveyor, before he went North, they sent him
over into southern Texas to look up an old piece of property. There was a fellow
claimed a lot of land that really run over on to this property. Mr. Carhart
figured it out that the fellow was lying, but he knew it was going to be hard to
prove it. The old marks of the corners were all gone--there wasn’t a soul living
who had ever seen ’em. It was an old Spanish grant, Mr. Scribner says, and the
Spanish surveyors had just blazed trees to mark the lines. Well, sir, would you
believe it, Mr. Carhart worked out the place where this corner ought ‘o be, cut
down an old cedar tree that stood there, sawed it up into lengths before
witnesses, found the blaze mark all grown over with bark, and took the piece of
log right into court and proved it. No, I guess it wouldn’t be so infernal easy
to get ahead o’ Mr. Carhart.”

“That’s all right,” observed one of the laborers, “if you’re working for Mr.
Carhart. But s’pose you ain’t--s’pose you’re workin’ for Mr. Vandervelt?”

“Oh, well, of course,” Dimond replied, “Mr. Vandervelt’s different. He ain’t
nowhere near the man Mr. Carhart is.”

Charlie took in this comment quietly, but with less than the usual good nature
in his blue eyes. “I don’t care how decent the boss is,” continued the laborer,
“if I have to have a mean old he-devil cussin’ at me from six to six, and half
the night besides, sometimes.”

Dimond grew reflective. “I know about Mr. Vandervelt,” he said meditatively.
“You see, boys, it was sort o’ lonely up ahead there boring for water, and Mr.
Scribner and me we got pretty well acquainted.” Dimond was endeavoring to
conceal the slight superiority over these men of which he could not but be
conscious. “It’s a queer case,” he went on, “Mr. Vandervelt’s case. I know about
it. It’s his temper, you see. That’s what’s kep’ ’im back,--that’s why he’s only
a division engineer to-day.”

“Keep quiet, boys,” broke in the laborer, with a sneer. “Dimond knows about it.
He’s tellin’ us the news. Mr. Vandervelt’s got a temper, he says.”

Dimond was above a retort. “I can tell you,” he said. “Mr. Scribner give me the
facts.” (In justice to Harry Scribner it should be mentioned that he had told
Dimond nothing whatever concerning the personal attributes of his colleague.)
“When Mr. Vandervelt gets mad, he shoots. He don’t have to be drunk, neither, or
in a fight, or frolicking careless with the boys. He shot a waiter in the Harper
restaurant at Flemington, shot ’im right down. And then he went out into the
mountains and worked for a year without ever coming near a town. And they
say”--Dimond’s voice lowered--“they say he shot a camp boss on the Northern, a
man he used to knock around with, friendly. They say he shot him.” Dimond
paused, in order that his words might sink into the consciousness of each
listener. “He never goes North any more. He’ll never even stay at a place like
Sherman for more than a day or two, and not that when he can help it.”

The men were silent for a little while. Then Charlie got slowly to his feet and
shook out his big frame preparatory to making his rounds. “I guess that’s why
Mr. Carhart told me to take my orders from his brother,” he said slowly. “I was
wondering.” Then he stepped off in the direction of the corral. It was three
o’clock in the morning when Charlie finally stretched out for three winks. The
laborers had long before rolled themselves up in their blankets. The men on
guard, weary of peering into the darkness and the silence, had made themselves
as nearly comfortable as they could. And it was half-past three, or near it,
when a rope was cut by a stealthy hand and half a dozen sleepy, obedient mules
were led out and away. Where so many animals were stirring; and where, too, lids
were perhaps drooping over hitherto watchful eyes, the slight disturbance passed
unobserved. At four the guards were changed, and the new day began to make
itself known. At five the camp was astir; and a boy, searching in vain for his
team, came upon the cut, trailing ends of rope at the outer edge of the corral.
They told Charlie, whom they found bending, red-eyed, over a steaming kettle.
And the cook, with a straightforward sort of moral courage, went at once to
announce his failure at guarding the camp. As luck would have it, he found the
brothers Vandervelt together, at the wash basin behind their tent. “May I speak
to you, sir?” addressing the younger. “Certainly, Charlie--What luck?” was the
reply. And then, for a moment, they waited,--Young Van half glancing at his
brother, Charlie summoning every ounce of this wonderful new sense of
responsibility for the ordeal which he saw was to come, Old Van meaning
unmistakably to take a hand in the discussion. “We lost six mules last night,
Mr. Vandervelt,” said Charlie, at length, plainly addressing Young Van. “We lost
six mules, did we?” mimicked the veteran, breaking in before his brother could
reply. “What do you mean by coming here with such a story, you--?” The tirade
was on. Old Van applied to the cook such epithets as men did not employ at that
time to any great extent on the plains. All the depression of the day before,
which he had not succeeded in sleeping off, came out in a series of red-hot
phrases, which, to Young Van’s, and to his own still greater surprise, Charlie
took. Young Van, looking every second for a blow or even for a shot, could not
see that he so much as twitched a muscle. Finally Old Van paused, not because he
was in any danger of running out of epithets, but because something in the
attitude of both Charlie and his brother tended to clarify the situation in his
mind. Gus was standing almost as squarely as Charlie, and there were signs of
tension about his mouth. It was no time for the engineers to develop a conflict
of authority. When his brother had stopped talking, Young Van said shortly, “How
did you come to let them get away, Charlie?”

“I fell asleep, Mr. Vandervelt,--it must have been after three this morning, and
I didn’t wake up until four.”

“But what was the matter with your men?”

“That’s what I’m trying to find out, sir. They must have been asleep, too.”

“Who was on guard at that point?”

“A man named Foulk--one of the iron squad.”

“Yes, I know him. He is trustworthy, I think.”

“Oh, yes, sir, you can trust him, as far as having anything to do with those
thieves is concerned.”

“But that won’t help us much if he can’t keep awake a few hours. Where is he
now?”

Charlie hesitated. “I--I tied him up.”

“Bring him here.”

Charlie went off to obey. And Old Van returned to his ablutions. A moment more
and the unfortunate sentinel was being marched across to headquarters, under the
guidance and the momentum of a huge red hand. “Here he is, Mr. Vandervelt.”

Young Van looked at the two. Foulk appeared honestly crestfallen. Then, “Let him
go, Charlie,” he said. And turning to Foulk, he merely added, “You’ll get your
night’s sleep after this, my friend. We want no men on guard who can’t be relied
on--and it’s evident that you can’t. Now go and eat your breakfast, and get to
work. See that this doesn’t happen again, Charlie.”

Foulk hurried off in one direction, Charlie walked away in another; Old Van
disappeared within the tent in order to complete his very simple toilet; Young
Van stood alone, looking after one and another of the retreating figures with an
expression of something like dismay. He had spoken with more vigor and authority
than he could suppose; but even such as it was, his momentary grip on the
situation relaxed while he stood there. The work was not going to stop, he knew
that, yet this complicated mechanism, the job, seemed to be running on without
any mainspring. Speaking for himself, there was no one of the many tasks Carhart
had left in his hands which he was not competent to perform, yet, viewing them
in mass, they bewildered him. There would be bickerings, sliding on from bad to
worse. The work would be undertaken each day in a dogged spirit, and it would
have an ugly side which had not before shown itself. Earlier in the course of
the undertaking there had been moments when he had thought, looking out from his
own mountain range of details, that Carhart’s work was not so trying as it
seemed; that he had time to ride up and down the line, chatting with engineers
and foremen; that he could relax almost as he chose,--run down to Sherman now
and then, or even slip off for a day’s shooting. Now he saw it differently. And
his forebodings were realized. Everybody in authority felt the unfortunate drift
of the work, and everybody felt helpless to check this drift. Attempts made now
and then by individuals were worse--because they merely succeeded in drawing
attention to it--than the general failure. That evening, when Scribner came back
and they all tried to be jolly, was the gloomiest time in a gloomy week. Men
took to deserting their work. On one occasion thirty-odd of them left in a body
to join an outfit which halted overnight near the main camp--that was when they
were living on “mile forty-five.” Fights grew more frequent. Accidents seemed to
be almost a part of the week’s routine. One day, Young Van, chancing to pass
near the track-laying work, heard his brother swearing at the rider of the snap-
mule that drew the rail-truck back and forth between the material train and the
work. The rider was a boy of twelve. Young Van recalled, as he listened, a scene
of a fortnight earlier (it seemed a year), when the boy, then new to it, had
been found by Carhart, quietly sobbing on his horse. “What’s the trouble, son?”
the chief had inquired good-humoredly. “I’m afraid,” was the lad’s reply.
Whereupon the chief had lifted him down, swung himself into the saddle, and,
with a twinkle in his eye, had ridden a few trips in order to show the boy how
to manage it safely. At length a man was killed, one of pile-driver crew No. 1,
on Old Van’s division. Other men had been killed earlier in the work, but this
death struck the workmen as bearing greater significance. In the other cases
Carhart himself had done all that man could do; the last time he had driven the
body twenty miles to a priest and decent burial. But Old Van sent out a few
nerve-shaken laborers to dig a grave, and told them to waste no time about it,
beyond seeing that it was well filled after--afterward. *       *       *
*       *

For several nights after the trouble with Foulk Charlie did not sleep at all.
But even a frontiersman is subject to Nature’s laws, and the time came when he
was overcome, shortly after midnight, while sitting on a box before his tent,
and he rolled over and slept like a child. They woke him at daybreak, and,
without a word, handed him this rough placard:--

Tell Mr. Carhart he’d better be carrying a gun after this. He’ll need it. JACK
FLAGG. “It was stuck up on the telegraph pole,” explained a sleepy-eyed
sentinel. “Where?”

“Here in camp.”

A few moments later the cook, pale under his tan, stood before his half-dressed
acting-chief. Again the two brothers were together. “So this is how you watch
things, is it?” said Old Van. “What did you lose for us last night?”

“The drivers are counting up now, sir. I only know of a mule and a horse so
far.”

“That’s all you know of, is it? I’ll tell you what to do. You go back to your
quarters and see that you do no more meddling in this business. No, not a word.
Go back and get your breakfast. That’s all I expect from you after this.”

Charlie looked inquiringly at Young Van, who merely said: “I want to know more
about this, Charlie. Run it down, and then come to me.”

When the cook had gone, Young Van picked up the placard and read it over. He was
struck by the bravado of the thing. And he wondered how much of a substratum of
determination Jack Flagg’s bravado might have. This primitive animal sort of man
was still new to him. He had neither Paul Carhart’s unerring instinct, nor his
experience in handling men. To him the incident seemed grave. There would be
chances in plenty before they reached Red Hills for even a coward to get in a
shot, and a coward’s shot would be enough to bring the career of their chief to
an abrupt end. He folded the dirty paper and put it into his pocket. Later, with
the best of intentions, he said to his brother: “You are altogether too hard on
Charlie. I happen to know that he has been doing everything any man could do
without a troop of regulars behind him.”

To his surprise, Old Van replied with an angry outburst: “You keep out of this,
Gus! When I need your advice in running this division, I’ll ask you for it.”

Twenty minutes later, when they were rising from breakfast, Charlie appeared,
leading with an iron grip a dissolute-looking plainsman, and carrying a revolver
in his other hand. “Hello!” cried Young Van. “What’s this? What are you doing
with that gun?”

“I took it away from this man. He was hiding out there behind a pile of bones. I
reckon he was trying to get away when his horse went lame and the daylight
caught him.”

[Illustration: “‘You go back to your quarters.’”]

“What has he to say for himself?”

“It’s a ---- lie!” growled the stranger. “I was riding in to ask for a job, an’
I hadn’t more’n set down to rest--”

“You ride by night, eh?”

“Well--” the stranger hesitated--“not gen’ally. But I was so near--”

“Here, here!” cried Old Van. “What’s all this talk about? I guess you know what
to do with him. Get about it.”

“What do you mean by that?” cried Young Van, flushing. “What do I mean by it?
What is generally done with horse thieves?”

The stranger blanched. “You call me a--”

But Young Van checked him. “We don’t know that he is a horse thief.”

“I do, and that’s enough. Charlie, take him off, and make a clean job of it.”

“Charlie,” cried Young Van, “stay where you are!” He turned hotly on his
brother. “The worst we have any reason to believe about this man is that he put
up that placard.”

“Well, doesn’t that prove him one of the gang?”

“We have no proof of anything.”

“You keep out of this, Gus! Charlie, do as I tell you.”

Charlie hesitated, and looked inquiringly at the younger engineer. This drove
Old Van beyond reason. He suddenly snatched the revolver from the cook, shouting
angrily: “If you won’t obey orders, I’ll see to it myself!”

But Young Van, with a quick movement, gripped the weapon, bent it back out of
his brother’s grasp, snapped it open, ejected the cartridges, and silently
returned it. Old Van held it in his hand and looked at it, then at the five
cartridges, where they had fallen on the ground. Then, with an expression his
brother had never before seen on his face, he let the weapon fall on the ground
among the cartridges, and walked away to the headquarters tent. “Charlie,” said
Young Van, “keep this man safe until the sheriff comes back.”

“All right, sir,” Charlie replied. The cook turned away with his prisoner, and
Young Van’s eyes sought the ground. He had almost come to blows with his
brother, and that before the men, about the worst thing that could have taken
place. The incident seemed the natural culmination of these days of depression
and pulling at odds. “It looks like the sheriff coming in now, sir.”

Young Van started and looked up. Charlie, still grasping the stranger, was
pointing down the track, where a troop of horsemen could be seen approaching.
They drew rapidly nearer, and soon the two leaders could be distinguished. One
was unmistakably Bowlegged Bill Lane. The other was a slender man, hatless, with
rumpled hair, and a white handkerchief bound around his forehead. Young Van
walked out to meet them, and saw, with astonishment, that the hatless rider was
Paul Carhart; and never had face of man or woman been more welcome to his eyes.
The troop reined up, dismounted, and mopped their sweating faces. Their horses
stood damp and trembling with exhaustion. All together, the little band bore
witness of desperate riding, and to judge from certain signs, of fighting.
“Well, Gus,” said Carhart, cheerily, “how is everything?”

But Young Van was staring at the bandage. “Where have you been?” he cried.
“Chasing Jack Flagg.”

“But they hit you!”

“Only grazed. If it hadn’t been dark, we should have got him.”

“But how in--”

The chief smiled. “How did I get here?” he said, completing the question. “The
train was stalled last night only a dozen or fifteen miles back. The tender of
that model of 1865 locomotive they gave us went off the track, and the engine
got in the same fix trying to put it on again. When I left, they were waiting
for the other train behind to come up and help. They ought to be along any time
this morning. Where’s your brother?”

Young Van had turned to look at a group of three or four prisoners, whom two of
the posse were guarding. “Where’s your brother?” Carhart asked again. “My
brother! Oh, back at the tent, I guess.”

The chief gave him a curious glance, for the young engineer was flushing oddly.
“Tell him to wait a minute for me, will you? I want to see you both before the
work starts.”

Young Van walked over to the headquarters tent and stood a moment at the
entrance. His brother, seated at the table, heard him, but did not look up. “Mr.
Carhart is back,” said the young man, finally. “He asked me to tell you to wait
for him.”

Old Van gave not the slightest indication that he had heard, but he waited. When
the chief entered, motioning Young Van to join him, he went briskly at what he
had to say. He sat erect and energetic, apparently unconscious of the red stain
on his bandage, ignoring the fact that he had as yet eaten no breakfast; and at
his first words the blood began to flow again through the arteries of this
complicated organization that men called the Red Hills extension of the S. & W.

“Now, boys,” he began, “it was rather a slow ride back from Sherman, and I had
time for a little arithmetic. Through our friend Peet--”

“D--n him!” interrupted Old Van. The chief paused at this for another of his
questioning glances, then went quietly on. “Through our friend Peet, we have
lost so much time that it isn’t very cheerful business figuring it up. But we
aren’t going to lose any more.”

“Oh! you saw Peet!” said Young Van. “Yes, I saw him. We won’t bother over this
lost time. What we are interested in now is carrying through our schedule. And I
needn’t tell you that from this moment we must work together as prettily as a
well-oiled engine.” He said this significantly, and paused. Of the two men
before him, the younger flushed again and lowered his eyes, the elder looked
away and muttered something which could not be understood. “I’m bringing up a
hundred-odd more men on this train. When they get in, put them right at work. Is
Dimond in camp now?”

“Yes.”

“We’ll send him up to take charge of the well business. He can do it, now that
it is so well started. We need Scribner.”

“How much must we do a day now, to make it?” asked Young Van. “We shall average
as near as possible to two miles.”

Young Van whistled, then recovered himself. “All right, Mr. Carhart,” he said.
“Two miles is good. Beginning to-day, I suppose?”

“Beginning to-day.”

The chief spent very little time on himself. He was soon out and riding along
the grade, showing no nervousness, yet making it plain to every man on the job
that he meant to give an exhibition of “the fanciest track-laying ever seen in
these United States.” That was the way Young Van, in the exuberance of his new-
found spirits, expressed it to the foreman of the iron squad. But even Young
Van’s enthusiasm was not equal to the facts. When the night whistle blew, and
the dripping workmen dropped their picks and sledges, and rails, and ties, and
reins, and sat down to breathe before washing up for supper,--there was water
for washing now,--the conductor of the material train called to Young Van, and
waved toward a stake beside the track. “See that stick,” he shouted. “Yes, I see
it.”

“Well, sir,”--the conductor was excited too,--“I’ve been setting up one of those
things for every time we moved ahead a train length. My train’s a little over a
thousand foot long, and--and how many of those sticks do you suppose I’ve set up
since morning? Give a guess now!”

“I should say eight or ten. We’ve been getting over the ground pretty rapidly.”

“No, sir! No, sir! Fifteen there were, fifteen of ’em!”

“Fifteen thousand feet--three miles!” The young man stood a moment, then turned
and walked soberly away. It was early the next morning that Young Van recalled
Jack Flagg’s communication, which he still had in his pocket. He saw that the
chief was about starting off for his breakfast, and called him back and gave him
the paper. Carhart read it, smiled rather contemptuously, and handed it back.
“That man,” he said, “was just about big enough to stir up a little trouble in
the camp. I’m glad we’re through with him.”

“I wish I was sure we were,” replied Young Van. “Hello! you’re right, Gus. Here
he is again.”

Charlie was approaching with another dirty paper in his hand. “I didn’t think
anybody could get in last night, Mr. Carhart,” he said ruefully, “but--here is
what they left.”

The chief took this second paper and read it aloud:--

MY DEAR MR. CARHART: My shooting’s getting bum. Better luck     next time. JACK
FLAGG. “Flagg ought to be on the stage,” he said when he had tossed the paper
away. “He is the sort of man that can’t get along without an audience.”

CHAPTER VIII

SHOTS--AND A SCOUTING PARTY

It was early evening. Gus Vandervelt, nervous, exultant, leaving a trail of
cigarette stubs behind him, was pacing up and down the track. When he faced the
east, his eyes saw far beyond the cars and wagons and clustering tents. Off
there, in each mile of the many they had travelled, lay a witness of some battle
won. They had fought like soldiers; and the small successes had come rapidly
until the men were beginning to take victory as a matter of course. The most
stupid of them understood now just what sort of thing the reserved, magnetic
Paul Carhart stood for, and they were finding it a very good sort of thing
indeed. As Young Van walked, his imagination leaping forward from battles fought
to the battles to come, he heard a step, and saw the stocky figure of his
brother approaching through the dusk. He stiffened up and paused, but Old Van
marched by without the twitch of a muscle. The young man watched him until he
had faded out of sight, then lighted another cigarette, and continued his beat.
A little later, smiling in a nervous way he had of late, Young Van turned toward
the headquarters tent. He knew that his brother had gone to make up the material
train and would not return for some time. He found Paul Carhart sitting alone,
sewing a button on the yellow linen trousers. “Did you see any more drunks?”
Carhart asked, pausing, needle in air. Young Van, now that he thought of it, had
observed signs of unusual good feeling among the laborers. “We’re a little too
near this Palos settlement to suit me,” said the chief. “Keeping your men in the
desert rather spoils one for the advantages of civilization. I never had an
easier time with laborers. But these men are a bad lot to bring within five
miles of a saloon. They will be fighting before morning.”

“I suppose they will. I hadn’t thought of it. By the way, there’s a rumor about
that you had a letter from Mr. Flint to-day.”

Carhart shook his head. “No,” said he, “that’s the thing I want most just now.”

For a while they were silent. Young Van’s face grew sober. The track, this
double line of rusty steel, had so absorbed the energy of all of them that it
seemed now, to his inexperience, the complete outward expression of their lives.
He could think of little else. When not engrossed by the actual work, his
thoughts were ranging beyond, far into the deeper significance of it. Crowding
on the heels of the constructors would come settlers. Already mushroom towns
were pushing up along the line behind them. With settlers would come well-
boring, irrigation, farming, and ranching. Timber, bricks, stone would be rushed
into these new lands, to be converted into hotels, shops, banks, dwellings. The
marvellously intricate interrelations of civilization would suddenly be found
existing and at work. There would be rude, hard struggles, much drinking and
gambling, and some shooting. The license of the plains would be found strangely
mingled with law and with what we call right. The church and the saloon would
march on, side by side. And, finally, out of the uproar and the fighting would
rise, for better or worse, a new phase of life. Thinking these things, Young Van
could not forget that they five--Paul Carhart, John Flint, Old Van, Harry
Scribner, and himself--were bringing it about. They were breaking the way,
pioneers of the expansion of a restless, mighty people. “No,”--Carhart was
speaking,--“that letter was from Peet. You might enjoy reading it.”

Young Van started from his revery, took the letter, and spread it open. “My dear
Mr. Carhart,” it ran, “I am very sorry, indeed, about the delay of that lot of
spikes. I have arranged with Mr. Tiffany to buy up all we can find here in
Sherman and hurry them on to you. Please keep me informed by wire of any delays
and inconveniences. You will understand, I am sure, that we mean to stop at
nothing to keep you from the slightest annoyance and delay in these matters.
Very faithfully yours, L. W. Peet.”

“But we have spikes enough,” said the assistant, looking up. “What does he
mean?”

Carhart smiled. “Just what he says; that he wouldn’t delay us for worlds.”

“‘Very faithfully yours,’ too. What is all this, Mr. Carhart? What have you done
to him--hypnotized him?”

Carhart smiled. “Hardly,” he replied; adding, “Reach me that spool of thread,
will you?” But instead of continuing his needlework, Carhart, when he received
the spool, laid it down beside him and sat, deep in thought, gazing out through
the tent-opening into the night. “Gus,” he asked abruptly, “where did the
operator go?”

Young Van glanced up at his chief, then answered quietly: “To bed, I think. I
heard him say he was going to turn in early to-night.”

“Would you mind stirring him out?”

“Certainly not.”

“Wait a minute. We have enough firewood on hand to keep the engines going six or
perhaps eight days. That won’t do.”

Young Van was slightly puzzled. “Go ahead, Gus. Tell him to meet me at his
instrument in ten minutes.”

Young Van left the tent at once. When he returned, after rousing the sleepy
operator, he observed that the chief was still deep in thought. “All right,”
said Young Van; “he’s getting up.”

“Much obliged, Gus.” Carhart started to resume his mending, then lowered his
needle. “And all for the want of a horseshoe nail,” he hummed softly. Young Van,
more puzzled than before, looked up from a heap of papers which had drawn his
attention. Carhart smiled a little. “You remember?” he said,--

“For the want of a nail the shoe was lost;     For the want of the shoe the
horse was lost;     For the want of the horse the rider was lost;     For the
want of the rider the battle was lost;     And all--”

He stopped and looked out. A partly clad figure was hurrying by toward the
shelter that covered the telegraph instruments. “There he goes now. I’m a little
bothered, Gus. It would be a humorous sort of a joke on me if I should be held
up now for a little firewood.”

“I suppose we couldn’t cut up ties?” suggested Young Van. “Can’t spare ’em. I’ve
ordered wood from Red Hills, but we shan’t be able to pick up enough there. And
if we don’t get some pretty soon, the engines will have to stop.”

Young Van took down a letter file and glanced through it. In a moment he had
drawn out a recent message from Peet. “Here,” he said, “Mr. Peet promised to
have a big lot of wood on the way by to-day. That leaves some margin for
delays.”

Carhart rose, and nodded. “Yes,” he replied, “but not margin enough.”

“You expect something to happen right off?”

“Couldn’t say to that. But my bones feel queer to-night--have felt queer all
day. Tiffany writes that Bourke, who is in charge of the H. D. & W.
construction, was in Sherman the other day. And Commodore Durfee was expected at
Red Hills a week ago. Well,--” He shrugged his shoulders and went out and over
to join the operator. “We’ll try to get the man on the next division,” said
Carhart. “Ask him if the line is clear all the way.”

The operator extended his hand to send the message, but checked it in midair.
“Why,” he exclaimed, “he is calling us!” He looked up prepared to see surprise
equal to his own on Carhart’s face. But what he did see there mystified him. The
chief was slowly nodding. He could not say that he had expected this call,--the
thing was a coincidence,--and yet he was not at all surprised. “‘Trouble on
Barker Hills division--’” The operator was repeating as the instrument clicked.
“That’s a hundred miles or so back--”

“Hundred and thirty-eight. ‘Operator on middle division,’ he says, ‘wires fifty
men trying to seize station--has notified Sherman--assistance promised. Big
armed force Barker Hills led by large man with red mustache--’”

“That’s Bourke himself,” muttered Carhart. The operator’s hand shook a little.
His eyes were shining. “Here’s some more, Mr. Carhart,--‘Have tried to hold my
station, but--’”

“Wait,” cried the chief, sharply. “Quick--say this: ‘Has supply train passed
west to-day?’”

“‘Has--supply--train--’” the operator repeated after a moment--“‘passed--west-
to-day?’”

“Now what does he answer?”

“Just a moment--Here he is!--‘Not--not--’ Hold on there, what’s the matter?”

“Has he stopped?”

“Stopped short. That’s queer.”

“Do you think so?” said Carhart, looking down into the white face of the
operator. The effect of the young man’s excitement was hardly lessened by the
shock of rumpled hair about his forehead and by the white collar of a nightgown
which appeared above his hastily buttoned coat. “You mean--?”

“Wait a little longer.” For several minutes they were silent, the operator
leaning his elbows on the table, Carhart bending over him. Then, “Try him
again,” said Carhart. The operator obeyed. There was no response. Carhart drew
up an empty cracker box and sat down. Twenty minutes passed. “Click--clickety--
click--click,” said the instrument. The operator, in a husky voice, translated
the message as it came in: “‘P. Carhart, chief west’n ext. S. & W.: On receipt
of this you will stop all construction work until further instructions, by order
of Vice-Pres. Chambers--H. L. Tiffany.’”

“That’s funny!” said the operator. Carhart did not seem to hear the exclamation.
He was frowning slightly, and his lips were moving. At length he said, “Take
this:--

“To C. O’F. BOURKE,

Barker Hills Station:--

“Have another try, old chap. You haven’t quite caught Hen      Tiffany’s style
yet. “P. CARHART.”

The operator laughed softly and nervously as his deft fingers transmitted this
personal communication. “Got it all through?” asked the chief. “Yes, sir; all
through.”

“All right, then, go back to bed. Good night.”

“Good night, Mr. Carhart.”

*       *       *       *       *

For several days now no word had come through from Flint, on “mile 109.” But
twenty hours after the trouble at Barker Hills--just before supper time of the
following day--a party of plainsmen came galloping into camp. One of these, a
wizened little man with a kindly smile and shrewd eyes, dismounted before the
headquarters tent and peered in between the flaps. “Mr. Carhart here?”

“He will be in two minutes,” replied Young Van, rising from the table. “Come in,
sir!”

“Your Mr. Flint asked me to hand him this.” The wizened one produced a letter,
and dropped into the chair which Young Van had brought forward. “Having quite a
time up there, isn’t he?”

“How so?” asked Young Van. It was well to speak guardedly. “Oh, he’s in it,
deep,” was the reply. “Commodore Durfee’s at the Frisco Hotel in Red Hills. They
say he came out over the ‘Wobbly’ on a construction train and rode through.
Pretty spry yet, the Old Commodore. He’s hired a bad man named Flagg--Jack Flagg
--and sent him out with a hundred or so men to seize your bridge at La Paz.
Sorry I couldn’t stay there to see the excitement, but I’m hurrying east. Mr.
Flint thought maybe I could pick up one of your trains running back to Sherman.
If I can’t do that, I’ll strike off south for Pierrepont, and get through that
way.”

Young Van hesitated, and was about to reply, when he heard the chief
approaching. Carhart came in from the rear, nodded to the stranger, and picked
up the envelope. “You brought this, sir?” he asked. “Yes; Mr. Flint asked me
to.”

Very deliberately Carhart read the letter, and, without the slightest change of
expression, tossed it on the table. “You must have supper with us,” he said. “If
you stopped with John Flint you perhaps know how little an engineer’s
hospitality amounts to, but such as we have we shall be very glad to share with
you.”

“Thank you,” replied the stranger. “You are a ranchman, I presume?” Carhart went
on. “Yes--in northwest of Red Hills. I go to Sherman every year.”

Young Van spoke, “He thought of taking one of our trains through.”

Carhart smiled dryly. “I should be greatly obliged to you, sir, if you could
take a train through,” he said. “That’s something we don’t seem able to do.”

The wizened one glanced up with a keen expression about his eyes. “Having
trouble back along the line?” he asked. “You might call it trouble. My old
friend Bourke, of the H. D. & W., has cut in behind us with a small army.” He
gave a little shrug. “I can’t get through. I can’t get either way now that
they’ve got in between Flint and Red Hills.”

“Then I’d better ride down to Pierrepont, hadn’t I?”

“I’m afraid that’s the best that I can suggest, sir.”

“You people certainly seem to be playing in hard luck, Mr. Carhart.” As the
wizened one ventured this observation he crossed his legs and thrust his hands
into his pockets. The action caused his coat to fall back, and disclosed a small
gold pendant hanging from his watch guard. Young Van observed it, and glanced at
Carhart, but he could not tell whether the chief had taken it in. “It’s worse
than hard luck,” Carhart replied; “it begins to look like defeat. We have been
dependent on the Sherman people for material, food, water,--everything. Now
Bourke has shut us off.”

“But you seem to have plenty of material here, Mr. Carhart.”

“Rails--yes. But it takes more than rails.”

“And you surely have a large enough force.”

“Yes, but moving several hundred men back a hundred and forty miles, fighting it
out with Bourke, clearing the track, and getting trains through from Sherman,
will take time. Long before we can make any headway, the H. D. & W. will have
beaten us into Red Hills.”

“Ah--I see,” nodded the wizened one. “You’re going back after Bourke.”

“What else can I do! I can’t even wire Sherman without sending a man two hundred
miles through the desert. The most important thing to my employers is to
maintain possession of the line.”

“Of course--I see. I don’t know much about these things myself.”

After supper the wizened one announced that he must ride on with his party. “You
won’t stop with us to-night?” asked Carhart. “No, thanks. It’ll be light an hour
or two yet. I’ve got to move fast. I’ll lose a good deal, you see, going around
by way of Pierrepont.”

“That’s so, of course. Well, good-by, sir.”

“Good-by.”

The riders swung into their saddles and cantered off eastward. Carhart turned to
Young Van and slowly winked. “Come up to headquarters, Gus,” he said. “I’ve got
some work for you.”

“I rather guess you have, if we’re going after Bourke.”

“After Bourke?” Carhart smiled. “You didn’t take that in, Gus?”

“Well--of course, I suspected.”

“You saw his badge?”

“Yes.”

“Bourke always has a lot of men about him from his own college.”

“You really think it, then?”

“It would be hard to say what I think. But I’ve been going on the assumption
that he is one of Bourke’s engineers.”

They were approaching the headquarters tent. Young Van looked up and saw that
“Arizona,” Carhart’s new saddle-horse, was hitched before it. They entered the
tent, and the first thing the chief did was to get out two long blue-nosed
revolvers and slip them into his holsters. A moment later, and Dimond, fitted
out for a long ride, appeared at the entrance, saying, “All ready, Mr. Carhart!”

“Now, Gus,” said the chief, “I’m off for ‘mile 109.’ I want you to get about two
hundred men together and send them after me to-night or to-morrow morning. I’ll
tell Scribner, as I pass him, to have fifty more for you. Every man must have a
rifle and plenty of ball cartridges. Send Byers”--this was the instrument man of
the long nose--“and two or three others whom you think capable of commanding
forty or fifty men each.”

“And Bourke?”

“We’ll leave him to Mr. Chambers. Give Charlie instructions to strengthen his
night guard. Some men will be sent back to guard the second and third wells.”

Young Van involuntarily passed his hand across his eyes. “I’m afraid I’m not
much good,” he said slowly. “I didn’t grasp this situation very well. It’s
rather a new phase of engineering for me. We seem to be plunging all of a sudden
into tactics and strategy.”

“That’s about the size of it, Gus,” the chief responded. He had exchanged his
old straw hat for a sombrero. His spurs jingled as he moved. There was a sparkle
in his eye and a new sort of military alertness about his figure. He paused at
the tent entrance, and looked back. “That’s about the size of it, Gus,” he
repeated with a half smile. “And I’m afraid I rather like it.”

“Well, good-by. I’ll start the men right along after you.”

Carhart mounted his horse, Dimond followed his example, and the two rode away in
the direction of the La Paz bridge. And ten hours later, at five in the morning,
a line of armed horsemen--a long-nosed young man with the light of a pirate soul
in his eyes riding at the head, an athletic pile-inspector and a college-bred
rodman bringing up the rear--rode westward after him. *       *       *       *
*

Troubles had been coming other than singly on “mile 109.” Jack Flagg, with a
force which, while smaller than Flint’s, was made up of well-armed and well-paid
desperadoes, had seized the ridge which shut in the La Paz Valley on the west,
had pitched camp, erected rude intrenchments of loose stone, and stopped for the
moment all work on the mile-long trestle. So much John Flint had set down in the
note which the wizened one had delivered to Carhart. The next adventure befell
on the night after the departure of the wizened one; and it brought out the ugly
strain in the opera bouffe business of these wild railroading days. Antonio, the
watchman, sat on the edge of the eastern abutment and dangled his feet. He was
so drowsy that he even stopped rolling cigarettes. He had chosen a comfortable
seat, where a pile of timbers afforded a rest for his back. To be sure, there
was the possibility of rolling off into the water and sand if he should really
fall asleep; but elsewhere he would be exposed to the searching eyes of the
engineer in charge, and those eyes were very searching indeed. He was thinking,
in a dreamy way, of what he would do on the Sunday, with his week’s pay in his
pocket and the village of La Paz but twelve miles away. Now and again his
complacent eyes roved out across the river, which slipped by with such a gentle,
swishing murmur. He could look over the tops of the four unfinished piers and
the western abutment and see the trestle where it was continued on the farther
side. These Americanos, what driving devils they were! And when they had built
their railroad, what were they going to do with it? To go fast--Antonio shrugged
his shoulders and resumed the cigarettes--it is very well, but to what purpose?
When they have rushed madly across the continent, what will they find there?
Perhaps they will then rush back again. These Americanos! He let his eyes rest
upon the row of piers--one, two, three, four of them. What labor they had caused
--how the men had sweat, and muttered, and toiled--how the foremen had cursed!
Four piers of masonry rising out of the ghostly river. Very strong they must be,
for the La Paz was not always gentle. In the spring and fall it was savage; and
then it had an ugly way of undermining bridges, as those other foolish
Americanos had learned to their cost when they built the wagon bridge at La Paz.
He smiled lazily. But suddenly he sat up straight. A long thin figure of a man
was moving about among the piles of timber. It was the señor Flint--and such a
prowler as he was, day and night, night and day. He lived this bridge, did the
señor; he thought it, he ate it, he drank it, he talked it, he slept it,--and
for why? It could not be that he believed it living to think and breathe bridge
and only bridge. It could not be that man was made for this--to become a slave
to this trestle structure which was slowly crawling, like some monster
centipede, across the sands of the La Paz. It was very good for the trestle
perhaps, and the bridge, but was it so good for the señor? [Illustration: “...
this trestle structure which was slowly crawling, like some monster centipede,
across the sands of the La Paz.”]

Antonio smiled again, and settled back; the señor was passing on. He was getting
into a boat. He was poling across the languid, dimpling river. He was getting
out on the farther bank; he was walking up the long slope, keeping out of the
moonlight in the shadow of the trestle-thing; he was peering up toward the
embattled ridge beyond, where lay the redoubtable Flagg. ... The cigarette
dropped from Antonio’s unnerved fingers, and fell with a sizzling splash into
the water below. He drew an involuntary quick breath, and the smoke in his
nostrils went unexpectedly into his throat and made him cough. Then trembling a
little, he got slowly to his feet and stood staring out there over the serene
surface of the river. He rubbed his eyes and stared again. A shot,--two shots,--
which was right? Two--no, one! And that insignificant little dark heap yonder in
the moonlight--was that the señor? What a trouble!--and he had been so
comfortable there on the abutment! Antonio was frightened. He thought of running
away from these fate-tempting Americans; but in that case he would lose his pay
and those Sundays at La Paz. He waited a while. Perhaps he was dreaming and
would make himself ridiculous. He walked about, and tried different points of
view. And at last he went to rouse his foreman. They got Flint in--Haddon, in
night-shirt, bare legs, and shoes with flapping strings to them; the foreman of
the pile-driver crew in night-shirt and hat, and two big-shouldered bridgemen.
There was a ball somewhere in Flint, and there were certain complications along
the line of his chronic ailment, so that his usefulness was, so to speak,
impaired. And Haddon, during what was left of the night and during all of the
following day, had distinctly a bad time of it. While these things were going
on, Paul Carhart was riding westward at a hot gallop with Dimond close behind.
It was shortly after sunset that he reined up on the crest of the eastern ridge
and looked out over the La Paz. The barren valley was flooded with light. The
yellow slopes were delicately tinted rose and violet, the rock pillars stood out
black and sharply defined, the western hills formed a royal purple barrier to
the streams of color; and through this glowing scene extended the square-jointed
trestle, unmistakably the work of man where all else was from another hand.
Never in the progress of this undertaking which we have been following across
the plains had the contrast been so marked between the patient beauty of the old
land and the uncompromising ugliness of the structure which Paul Carhart was
carrying into and through it. And yet the chief,--an intelligent, educated man,
not wanting in feeling for the finer side of life,--though he took in the
wonders of the sunset, looked last and longest at the trestle and the
uncompleted bridge. Then he rode down, glancing, in his quizzical way, at the
camp, which had been moved back behind a knoll, at the piles of stone and
timber, at the corral, and at the groups of idle, gloomy workmen. Fortunately
the chief was prepared for surprises. News that the trestle had been burned to
the ground would have drawn no more than a glance and a nod from him. His mind
had not been idle during the ride. He knew that the strongest defence partakes
of an offensive character, and he had no notion of sitting back to await
developments. Of several sets of plans which he had been considering, one was so
plainly the simplest and best that he was determined to try it. It involved a
single daring act, a sort of raid, which it would be necessary to carry through
without a vestige of legal authority. But this feature of it disturbed him very
much less than a mere casual acquaintance with this quiet gentleman might have
led one to suppose. Perhaps he had, like the red-blooded Tiffany, a vein of
“Scotch-Irish” down in the depths of his nature which could on occasion be
opened up. [Illustration: “The cigarette dropped from Antonio’s unnerved
fingers.”]

After looking out for the comfort of John Flint, and after conferring with
Haddon and going thoroughly over the ground, Carhart sent for Dimond. “How much
more are you good for?” he asked. Dimond grinned. “For everything that’s going,”
he replied. “Good. Do you know where the H. D. & W. is building down, a dozen or
fifteen miles north of here?”

“I guess I can find it,” said Dimond. And with a fresh horse and a man or two,
and with certain specific instructions, Dimond rode north shortly after
nightfall of that same day. At eight in the morning he was back, hollow-eyed but
happy. And Paul Carhart, when Dimond had reported, was seen to smile quietly to
himself. CHAPTER IX

A SHOW-DOWN

All was quiet at the main camp. Excepting that the division engineers were
short-handed, and that Paul Carhart was away, things were going on with some
regularity. Scribner rode in late on the second afternoon, and toward the end of
the evening, when the office work was done, he and Young Van played a few
rubbers of cribbage. The camp went to sleep as usual. At some time between
eleven o’clock and midnight the two young engineers tacitly put up the cards and
settled back for a smoke. “Do you know,” said Young Van, after a silence, “I
don’t believe this stuff at all.”

Scribner tipped back, put his feet on the table, puffed a moment, and slowly
nodded. “Same here, Gus,” he replied. “Fairy tales, all of it.”

“You can’t settle the ownership of a railroad by civil war.”

“No; but if you can get possession by a five-barrelled bluff, you can give the
other fellow a devil of a time getting it back.”

“That’s true, of course.” They were silent again. ... “What’s that!” said
Scribner. Both dropped their feet and sat up. “Horse,” said Young Van. “Devil of
a way off.”

“Must be. Lost it now.”

“No--there it is again. Now, what do you suppose?”

“Don’t know. Let’s step out and look around.”

Standing on the sloping ground in front of the tent, they could at first
distinguish nothing. “Gives you a queer feeling,” said Scribner, “horse
galloping--this time of night--”

“--just now,” Young Van completed, “when things are going on.”

“Coming from the east, too,--where Bourke is. Know him?”

“No--never met him. Heard of him, of course.”

“He’s a good one. Wish he was on our side.”

“I guess Mr. Carhart can match him.”

Scribner nodded. “This sort of a fight’s likely to settle down into the plain
question of who’s got the cards. There’ll come a time when both sides’ll have to
lay down their hands, and the cards’ll make the difference one way or the other.
Just a show-down, after all.”

“I think myself Mr. Carhart’s got the cards. He didn’t look like a loser when he
went off the other night.”

“If he has,” said Scribner, “you can bet he’ll ‘see’ Durfee and Bourke every
time.”

... “Here’s that horse, Harry.”

“Big man--looks like--”

“It’s Tiffany.--Good evening, Mr. Tiffany.”

“How are you, boys? Paul here?”

“Why, no, Mr. Tiffany. He’s up on ‘mile 109.’”

“‘Mile 109!’” Tiffany whistled. “What the devil! You don’t mean that those--” he
paused. “Commodore Durfee’s at Red Hills, you know,” said Young Van. “The ----
he is!”

“And he’s sent a force to hold the west bank of the La Paz.”

By this time the chief engineer of the S. & W. had got his big frame to the
ground. He bore unmistakable evidences of long and hard riding. Even in that dim
light they could see that his face was seamed with the marks of exhaustion.
“Haven’t got a wee bit drappie, have you?” he asked. “I certainly have,” Young
Van replied. “Come right in.”

Tiffany tossed his hat on the table, reached out for the flask and tumbler, and
tossed down a drink which would have done credit to the hardiest Highlander of
them all. “Now show me the stable,” he said. “Want to fix my horse for the
night. I’ve half killed him.”

A quarter of an hour later the three men were back in the headquarters tent.
“How did you get through, Mr. Tiffany?” asked Young Van. “Came out on the first
train to Barker Hills. Bourke’s holding the station there. He had a couple of
our engines, and was working east, but we stopped that. Peet’s there now with
Sheriff McGraw and a bundle of warrants and a hundred and fifty men--more, I
guess, by this time. Just another thimbleful o’ that-- Thanks! We’ve got Bourke
blocked at Barker Hills, all right. Before the week’s out we’ll have the track
opened proper for you. Mr. De Reamer’s taken hold himself, you know. He’s at
Sherman, with some big lawyers--and maybe he ain’t mad all through!”

“Then Commodore Durfee hasn’t got the board of directors?”

“Not by a good deal! I doubt if even General Carrington’s votes would swing it
for him now. But then, I don’t know such a heap about that part of it. I was
telling you--I’ll take a nip o’ that. Thanks!--I was telling you. We come along
the Middle Division, running slow,--we were afraid of obstructions on the
track,--”

“Did you find any?”

“Did we find any?--Well I guess.” He held out a pair of big hands, palms up. “I
got those splinters handling cross-ties in the dark. And about the middle of the
Barker Hills division--at the foot of Crump’s Hill,--we found some rails
missing. “Well, sir, I left ’em there to fix it up--we had a repair car in the
train--and got my horse off and rode around south of the station. Had some
sandwiches in my pocket, but didn’t get a drop of water till I struck your first
well, last night. You ain’t using that now?”

“No, we’ve moved up to two and three--this way.”

“There was a blamed fool tried to stop me, a mile south of Barker Hills Station
--yelled at me; and fired when I didn’t answer.”-- Tiffany paused with this, and
looked grimly from one to the other of the young men. Then he drew a big
revolver from his belt, opened it, and exhibited the cylinder. One chamber was
empty. They were silent for a time. “You’ll find Mr. Carhart’s cot all ready for
you, Mr. Tiffany,” said Young Van, at length. “All right. Can I get a breakfast
at five? I’m going on to find Paul. That’s where the fun’ll be--where you find
Paul Carhart. I wonder if you boys know what it means to have the opportunity to
work with that man--eh? He had us all guessing about the old Paradise. And he
was right--oh, he was right. There hasn’t a rail come through since.”

Scribner and Young Van were looking at each other. “Then those rails didn’t come
from Pennsylvania?” said the former. “He didn’t tell you, eh?” Tiffany grinned.
“Well, I guess it ain’t a secret now. Mr. Chambers never even grunted when I
told him, but he looked queer. And Mr. De Reamer ain’t said anything yet. Why,
Paul, he see first off that we weren’t ever going to get the rest o’ those
rails. He see, too, that Bourke was going to cut him off if he could. And what
does he do? Why he comes down and walks off with the old Paradise Southern--
rails, ties, everything. He never even tells Peet and me. It’s up to him, he
thinks, and if he makes good, nobody can kick.” Tiffany was grinning again.
“Yes, sir,” he continued, “Paul Carhart just naturally confiscated the Paradise
Southern, and it was the prettiest job anybody ever see. And it’s funny--he says
to me, while we were out there at Total Wreck pulling up the freight yard by the
roots, ‘Tiffany,’ he says, ‘if you hadn’t told about how you stole those
Almighty and Great Windy cars from the sheriff of Erie County, I’d never ‘a’
thought of it.’ Well, I’ll turn in, boys; good night.”

“Good night,” said Young Van. “Good night,” said Scribner; “I’ll ride on with
you as far as my division to-morrow, Mr. Tiffany. I can give you a fresh horse
there.”

The chief engineer of the S. & W. disappeared between the flaps of Carhart’s
tent. They could hear him throwing off his clothes and getting into bed. Another
moment and they heard him snoring. They stood gazing off down the grade. “Well,
what do you think of that?” said Scribner. Young Van looked at his companion. “I
think this,” he replied: “I wouldn’t miss this work and this fight under Paul
Carhart for five years’ pay.”

Scribner nodded. “The loss of an engineer’s pay, Gus, wouldn’t make much
difference one way or the other,” he replied, and his face lighted up with
enthusiasm. “But it’s a great game!”

*       *       *       *       *

And so it was that something like two days after Carhart’s arrival on “mile
109,” Tiffany, a little the worse for wear, but still able to ride and eat and
sleep and swear, came slowly down the slope into the camp, where Flint was
hovering midway between the present and the hereafter. He found the chief of
construction deep in a somewhat complicated problem, and after a bite to eat he
climbed up the ridge behind the camp to the tent which Carhart was occupying.
“Well, Paul, how goes it?” said he. “First-rate. How much do you know?”

“Precious little.”

Carhart mused a moment, then pulled out from a heap of papers one on which he
had sketched a map. “Here we are,” said he. “The trestle is fifty to a hundred
and fifty feet high, from ridge to ridge. Flagg has strung out his men along the
west ridge, about a mile from here, and across the end of the trestle.”

“Yes, yes,” broke in Tiffany, “I see. I’ve been all over this ground.”

“Well, now, you see these two knolls on the west ridge, a little back of Flagg’s
position? The one to the north is a hundred and twenty feet higher than Flagg’s
men; the one to the south is eighty feet higher and only a quarter of a mile
away from him. His line of retreat lies through the hollow between the two
knolls, where the track is to run. Now if I put fifty or a hundred men on each
knoll, I can command his position, and even shut off his retreat. His choice
then would lie between moving north or south along the crest of the ridge, which
is also commanded by the two knolls, or coming down the slope toward us.”

“Flagg hasn’t occupied the knolls, eh?”

“I believe he hasn’t. I’ve been watching them with the glasses.”

“I wonder why the Commodore put such a man in charge.”

“Oh, Flagg has some reputation as a bad man. He’s the sort General Carrington
employed in the Colorado fights.”

They talked on for a time, then Carhart put up his map and they walked out. It
was evening. Across the valley, at the point where the trestle met the rising
ground, they could see lights, some of them moving about. Tiffany walked with
his hands deep in his trousers pockets. Finally he said thoughtfully:--

“The more I think of it, Paul, the more I’m impressed by what Commodore Durfee
has done. He has got possession of our grade over there--we can’t deny that.
We’ve either got to give up, or else take the offensive and fight. And that
would look rotten, now, wouldn’t it?”

“Yes,” Carhart replied, “it would. He has made a pretty play. And as a play--as
a bluff--it comes pretty near being effective.”

“D--n near!” Tiffany muttered. “But now suppose we take those knolls--quietly,
in the night--and close in across Flagg’s rear, hold a line from knoll to knoll,
what then? Wouldn’t he have to shoot first?”

“Well, perhaps. But it would put both sides in a mean light. Oh, why didn’t John
stand him off in the first place! Then he could have shot from our property, and
been right in shooting.”

They had been pacing slowly up and down. Now Carhart stopped, and sat down on a
convenient stick of timber. Tiffany followed his example. The moon was rising
behind them, and the valley and the trestle and the rude intrenchments of timber
and rock on the opposite ridge and the knolls outlined against the sky grew more
distinct. “Yes,” Carhart said slowly, “it’s a very good bluff. Commodore Durfee
knows well enough that this sort of business can never settle the real question.
But the question of who gets to Red Hills first is another thing altogether. The
spectacle of Jack Flagg and a well-armed regiment of desperadoes in front of
them, and the knowledge that the Commodore himself had organized the regiment
and sent it out, would stop some engineers.”

Tiffany leaned forward, rested his elbows on his knees, and gazed moodily out
across the valley. He had been riding hard for four days, with not enough food
and water and scarcely any sleep. Only one night of the four had found him on a
cot--the other nights had been passed on the ground. In the resulting physical
depression his mind had taken to dwelling on the empty chamber in his revolver--
he wished he knew more of what that leaden ball had accomplished. And now here
was John Flint shot down by a hidden enemy. It was the ugliest work he had been
engaged in for years. When he finally spoke, he could not conceal his
discouragement. “How about this engineer here, Paul?” he said, still looking out
there over the valley. “Will the regiment and Commodore Durfee stop you?”

“I hope not,” said Carhart. “You’re going to fight, then--until the governor
calls out the state troops, and throws us all out, and there’s hell to pay?”

“I don’t think so. I’m going to get ready to fight.”

“By putting your men on those two knolls?”

“Yes.”

“And then what?”

“Then I’m going to Red Hills.”

“To Red Hills!” Tiffany sat up. There was more life in his voice. “Yes.” Carhart
laughed a little. “Why not?”

Tiffany half turned and looked earnestly into the face of this unusual man. The
spectacles threw back the moonlight and concealed the eyes behind them. The
lower part of the face was perhaps a trifle leaner than formerly. The mouth was
composed. Tiffany found no answer there to the question in his own eyes. So he
put it in words: “What are you going to do there, Paul?”

“See Commodore Durfee.”

“See--! Look here, do you know how mad he is? Do you think he came clear down
here from New York, and shoved his old railroad harder than anybody but you ever
shoved one before and hired the rascals that shot John Flint,--him playing for
the biggest stakes on the railroad table to-day,--do you think he’ll feel like
talking to the man who’s put him to all this trouble?”

“Well,” Carhart hesitated,--“I hope he will.”

“But it’s foolhardy, Paul. You won’t gain anything. Just the sight of you
walking into the Frisco House office may mean gun play. If it was Bourke, it
would be different; but these Durfee men are mad. The Commodore was never
treated this way in his life before. And you’re a little nervous yourself, Paul.
Be careful what you do. He’ll have lawyers around him--and he’s redhot, remember
that.”

“I can’t quite agree with you, Tiffany. I think he’ll talk to me. But there’s
one thing I’ve got to do first, and you can help me there.”

“For God’s sake, then, let me get into the game. I can’t stand this looking on--
fretting myself to death.”

“I want you to take charge here for a day while I go after my firewood. I came
pretty near being held up altogether for want of it. Bourke cut me off before
Peet could get it through.”

“Where can you get it?”

“There’s a lot waiting for me off north of here.”

Tiffany grunted. “North of here, eh?”

Carhart nodded. “And you have to work so delicate getting it that you can’t
trust anybody else to do it?”

Carhart smiled. “Better not ask me, Tiffany. I can’t talk to Commodore Durfee
until I’ve got all the cards in my hand, and this is the last one. As to going
myself, it happens to be the sort of thing I won’t ask anybody to do for me,
that’s all.”

“That’s how you like it,” said Tiffany, gruffly, rising. “Want to talk about
anything else to-night?”

“No--I shan’t be leaving before to-morrow noon. I’ll see you in the morning.”
While he spoke, he was watching Tiffany, and he was amused to see that the
veteran had recovered his equilibrium and was angry with himself. “When will you
want to begin your military monkey-shines?”

Carhart drove back a smile, and got up. “Not until I get back here with the
wood,” he replied. “Good night.”

Tiffany merely grunted, and marched off to the cot which had been assigned him.
At noon of the following day Carhart was ready to lead his expedition northward.
It was made up of all Flint’s wagons, with two men on the seat and two rifles
under the seat of each. And scattered along on both sides of the train were men
picked from Flint’s bridge-builders and from Old Van’s and Scribner’s iron and
tie squads. These men were mounted on fresh ponies, and they carried big
holsters on their saddles and stubby, second-hand army carbines behind them.
Dimond was there, too, and the long-nosed instrument man. The two or three
besides the chief who knew what was soon to be doing kept their own counsel. The
others knew nothing, but there was a sort of tingling electricity in the air
which had got into every man of the lot. This much they knew; Mr. Carhart was
very quiet and considerate and businesslike, but he had a streak of blue in him.
And it is the streak of blue in your quiet, considerate leader which makes him a
leader indeed in the eyes and hearts of those who are to follow him. Not that
there were any heroics in evidence, rather a certain grim quiet, from one end of
the wagon train to the other, which meant business. Carhart took it all in, as
he cantered out toward the head of the line, dropping a nod here and there, and
waving Byers, who was leaning on his pony’s rump and looking impatiently back,
to start off. He had picked his men with care--he knew that he could trust them.
And so, on reaching the leading wagon and pulling to a walk, he settled himself
comfortably in his saddle and began to plan the conversation with Commodore
Durfee which was to come next and which was to mean everything or nothing to
Paul Carhart. Once Byers, not observing his abstraction, spoke, “That was hard
luck, Mr. Carhart, getting cut off from Sherman this way.”

“Think so?” the chief replied, and fell back into his study. Byers looked
puzzled, but he offered nothing further. Carhart was for a moment diverted along
the line suggested by him of the long nose. “Hard luck, eh?” he was thinking.
“It’s the first time in my life I was ever let alone. I only hope they won’t
clean Bourke out and repair the wires before I get through.”

*       *       *       *       *

The white spot on Bourke’s long blueprint of the High, Dry, and Wobbly, to which
was attached the name of “Durfee,” might have seemed, to the unknowing, a town
or settlement. It was not. It was a station in the form of an unpainted shed, a
few huts, and a water tank. Besides these, there were heaps of rails and ties
and bridge timbers and all the many materials used in building a railroad. “The
end of the track,” or rather “Mr. Bourke’s camp,” which marked the beginning of
the end, lay some dozen miles farther west. Out there, men swarmed by the
hundred, for work had by no means been discontinued on the H. D. & W. But here
at “Durfee” there were only an operator, a train crew or so, a few section men,
and a night watchman. And on that late evening when a train of wagons rolled
along on well-greased wheels beside the track and stopped at the long piles of
firewood which were stored there within easy reach of passing locomotives, all
these worthy persons were asleep. What few words passed among the invaders were
low and guarded. Everything seemed to be understood. Of the two men on each
wagon, one dropped his reins and stood up in the wagon-box, the other leaped to
the ground and rapidly passed up armfuls of wood. Of the horsemen, three out of
every four dismounted and ran off in a wide circle and took shelter in shadowed
spots behind lumber piles, or dropped silently to the ground and lay there
watching. Out on the track a deep-chested, hard-faced man, who might perhaps
have answered to the name of “Dimond,” took up a post of observation. On that
side of the circle nearest the station and the huts, two men who had the manner
of some authority moved cautiously about. Both wore spectacles and one had a
long nose. Through the still air came the champing of bits and the pawing and
snorting of horses. The man with the spectacles and the less striking nose
seemed to dislike these noises. He drew out a watch now and then, and held it up
in the moonlight. The work was going on rapidly, yet how slowly! Once somebody
dropped an armful of wood, and every man started at the sound. The watchman upon
whom devolved the responsibility of seeing that no prowling strangers walked off
by night with the town of “Durfee” was meanwhile dreaming troublous dreams. From
pastoral serenity these night enjoyments of his had passed through various
disquieting stages into positive discord. They finally awoke him, and even
assumed an air of waking reality. The queer, faint sounds which were floating
through the night suggested the painful thought that somebody _was_ walking off
with the town of “Durfee.” He would investigate. Slowly tiptoeing down an
alleyway between two long heaps of material, the watchman settled his fingers
around his heavy stick. Then he paused. The sounds were very queer indeed. He
decided to drop his stick and draw his revolver. But this action, which he
immediately undertook, was interrupted by a pair of strong arms which gripped
him from behind. And a pair of hands at the end of two other strong arms
abruptly stuffed a handkerchief into his mouth and held it in place by means of
another which was tied at the back of his neck. “Bring him along, boys,” said a
low voice. “All right, Mr. Carhart,” replied the owner of the first-mentioned
arms,--and then could have bitten his tongue out, for the speaking eyes of the
incapacitated watchman were fixed on the half-shadowed, spectacled face before
him. Ten minutes more and the wagon train, now heavily laden, was starting off.
The horsemen lingered until it was fairly under way, then ran back to their
mounts, and hovered in a crowd about the last dozen wagons until all danger of
an attack was past. And later on, when they were something more than halfway
back to Mr. Flint’s camp, they released the night watchman, and started him back
on foot for “Durfee,” and hurled pleasantries after him for as long as he was
within earshot. *       *       *       *       *

It was necessary to drop another day before occupying the knolls, and Carhart
spent most of it in sleep. He was not a man of iron, and the exertions of the
week had been of an exhausting nature. But Tiffany, who had slept the sleep of
the righteous throughout the night of the raiding expedition, took hold of the
preparations with skill and energy. And after supper he and Carhart stood
together on the high ground at the eastern end of the trestle and talked it
over. “Young Haddon seems to be a pretty good man to command one knoll,” said
Tiffany, “but how about the other?”

“Byers could do it, possibly, but not so well as Dimond. The men like him, and
while he’s a little rough-handed, he’s level-headed and experienced. I’ll take
Byers to Red Hills with me. We can start out at nine, say. Each party will have
to make a wide circuit around the hills and cross the stream a mile or two from
here. It will be two or three hours before we get around to the knolls.”

“Would you use boats to ferry the boys over?”

“No. They saw too much of the start of my wagons yesterday. They would make out
any movement on the river. You take the down party, Tiffany, with Haddon; I’ll
go up with Dimond. Then you can leave Haddon in charge when you have him placed,
and move about where you please.”

Not a man of either party knew where he was to go, but as was the case at the
beginning of the movement on “Durfee,” voices were subdued and nerves were
strung up. As soon as it was dark, men carrying rifles and with light rations
stuffed into all available pockets--little men, middle-sized men, and big men,
but all active and well-muscled--appeared here and there by ones and twos and
threes, dodged out of the camp, and slipped through the hollow behind the
trestle-end. There was little champing and pawing of horses to-night, for
Carhart and Byers were the only ones to ride. The men lay or sat on the rocks
and on the ground there behind the brow of the ridge, and talked soberly. Before
long an inquisitive bridgeman counted a hundred and twenty of them, and still
they were coming silently through the hollow. After a time Dimond appeared, then
Haddon and Byers walking together, and, after a long wait, Tiffany and Carhart
themselves. Then the five leaders grouped for a consultation. Those near by
could see that Carhart was laying down the code that was to govern their conduct
for a day or two. Something was said before the group broke up which drew an
affirmative oath from Tiffany and started Haddon and Dimond examining their
weapons, and stirred Byers to an excited question. Then Tiffany drew off a rod
or so with Haddon at his heels, saying, “My boys, this way.” And as the word
passed along man after man, to more than a hundred, sprang up and fell in behind
him. Carhart beckoned to those who were left, fully an equal number of them, and
these gathered together behind their chief. “Good night, Tiffany,” said Carhart,
then. But Tiffany’s gruffness suddenly gave way. With a “wait a minute, boys,”
he came striding over and took Carhart’s hand in a rough grip. “Good luck,
Paul,” he said something huskily. And then he cleared his throat. “Good luck!”
he said again, and went back to his men. And the two parties moved off over the
broken ground and the rocks, Carhart and Byers leading their horses. Carhart led
his men nearly two miles north, then forded the stream at a point where it ran
wide and shallow. He climbed the west ridge, and turned south along the farther
slope. After twenty minutes of advancing cautiously he sent Dimond to follow the
crest of the ridge and keep their bearings. Another twenty minutes and Dimond
came down the slope and motioned them to stop. “Is this the knoll ahead here?”
asked the chief. Dimond nodded. “Quietly, then. Byers, you wait here with the
horses.”

The same individual spirit which makes our little American army what it is, was
in these workingmen. Every one understood perfectly that he must get to the top
of that knoll as silently as the thing could be done, and acted accordingly.
Orders were not needed. There were slopes of shelving rock to be ascended, there
were bits of real climbing to be managed. But the distance was not very great,
and it took but a quarter of an hour or so. Then they found themselves on the
summit, and made themselves comfortable among the rocks, spreading out so that
they could command every approach. Carhart took Dimond to the top of the
southeasterly slope and pointed out to him the knoll opposite, the hollow
between, the camp a third of a mile away of Flagg and his cheerful crew, the
trestle, the river, and their own dim camp on the farther slope. He repeated his
instructions for the last time. “Lie quiet until noon of the day after to-morrow
--not a sound, understand; not so much as the top of a hat to show. It will be a
hard pull, but you’ve got to do it.”

“Yes, sir.”

“At that time, if you hear nothing further from me, take your men down there
along the slope, give Flagg one chance to withdraw, and if he refuses, close in
across the hollow behind the rocks. Mr. Haddon will do the same. After that if
they try to rush you, shoot. The men from camp will be working out across the
trestle and up the hill at the same time.--Here it is, written down. Put it in
your pocket. And mind, not a shot, not so much as a stone thrown, before noon of
day after to-morrow, excepting in self-defence. Understand?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Now come down the slope here, on the other side--where we can’t be seen from
Flagg’s camp. You have your lantern?”

“Here.”

“Light it, and flash it once.”

Dimond obeyed. Both men peered across the hollow, but no response came from the
other knoll. “Flash it again.”

This time there came an answering flash. Carhart nodded, then took the lantern
from Dimond, extinguished it, and handed it back. “Don’t light this again for
any purpose,” he said. “Now see that you do exactly as I have told you. Keep
your men in hand.”

“All right, sir.”

“Good night, then.”

Carhart groped his way along the hillside, slowly descending. After a time he
whistled softly. “Here--this way!” came in Byers’s voice. They had to lead their
horses nearly a mile over the plateau before they found the beaten track to Red
Hills. Byers was jubilant. He was a young man who had dreamed for years of this
moment. He had known not what form it would take, but that he should at some
time be riding, booted and spurred, with a weight of responsibility on his
shoulders, a fine atmosphere of daring about him, and the feeling within of a
king’s messenger, this he had always known. And now here he was! And buoyant as
an April day, the blood dancing in his veins, sitting his horse with the ease of
an Indian, Byers called over to his chief: “Fine night this, Mr. Carhart!”

They were riding side by side. At his remark the chief seemed unconsciously to
be pulling in. He fell behind. Byers, wondering a little, slowed down and looked
around. Apparently his remark had not been heard. He called again: “Fine night,
Mr. Carhart!” ... And then, in the moonlight, he caught a full view of the face
of his leader. It was not the face he was accustomed to see about headquarters;
he found in it no suggestion of the resourceful, energetic chief on whom he had
come to rely as older men rely on blind forces. This was the face of a nervous,
dispirited man of the name of Carhart, a man riding a small horse, who, after
accomplishing relentlessly all that man could accomplish, had reached the point
where he could do nothing further, where he must lay down his hand and accept
the inevitable, whether for better or for worse. Byers could not, perhaps,
understand what this endless night meant to Paul Carhart, but the sight of that
face sobered him. And it was a very grave young man who turned in his saddle and
peered out ahead and let his eyes rove along the dreary, moonlit trail. A moment
later he started a little, and hardly conscious of what he was doing, turned his
head partly around and listened. “Oh, my God,” Carhart was saying, as if he did
not hear his own voice, “what a night!”

*       *       *       *       *

They pulled up before the Frisco Hotel at Red Hills. The time had come to throw
the cards face up on the table. “See to the animals yourself, will you, Byers?”
said Carhart. He dismounted, patted the quivering shoulder of his little horse,
and then handed the reins to his companion. “I don’t want to wear out Arizona
too.”

Byers nodded, and Carhart walked up to the hotel steps. His eyes swept the
veranda, and finally rested on two men who were talking together earnestly, and
almost, it might seem, angrily, at one end. He had never seen either before; but
one, the nearer, with the florid countenance and the side whiskers, he knew at
once for Commodore Durfee. He paused on the steps, and tried to make out the
other--a big, fat man with the trimmed, gray chin-beard, the hard mouth, and the
shaven upper lip which we associate with pioneering days. It was--no--yes, it
was--it _must_ be--General Carrington. Carhart had intended to take a room and
make himself presentable. He changed his mind. Hot and dusty as he was, dressed
almost like a cowboy, he walked rapidly down the piazza. “Mr. Durfee?”

The magnate turned slowly and looked up. “Well?” he inquired. Carhart found his
card-case and drew out one slip of cardboard. Mr. Durfee took it, read it,
turned it over, read it again, hesitated, then handed it to the General, saying,
in a voice the intent of which could hardly be misread, “What do you think of
that?”

General Carrington read the name with some interest, and looked up. He said
nothing, however; merely returned the card. “You want to talk to me?” asked
Durfee. “If you please.”

“Well--talk ahead.”

Carhart glanced at General Carrington. He knew that the opportunity to have it
out with Durfee in the presence of the biggest man of them all, the man who was
the _x_ in this very equation with which he was struggling, was a very great
opportunity. Just why, he could hardly have said; and he had no time to figure
it out in detail. So he leaped without looking. He drew up another of the worn
porch chairs and made himself comfortable. “A rascal named Jack Flagg,” he said,
speaking with cool deliberation, “with a hundred or two hundred armed men, has
thrown up what I suppose he would call intrenchments across our right of way at
the La Paz River. Another party has attacked our line back at Barker Hills. This
second party is commanded by Mr. Bourke, who is in charge of the construction
work on your H. D. & W. I care nothing about Bourke, because Mr. De Reamer, who
is at Sherman, is amply able to dispose of him. I have come here to ask you if
you will consider ordering Flagg to get out of our way at the La Paz.”

He settled back in his chair, looking steadily into the florid countenance of
the redoubtable Commodore Durfee. The two railway presidents were looking, in
turn, at him, but with something of a difference between their expressions.
Whether the General was amused or merely interested it would have been difficult
for any but one who was accustomed to his manner to say. But there could be
little doubt that the worldly experience of the Commodore was barely equal to
the task of keeping down his astonishment and anger. “This has nothing to do
with me,” he replied shortly. “I know nothing of this Flagg.”

Carhart leaned a little forward. His eyes never left Durfee’s face. “Then,” he
said, in that same measured voice, “if you know nothing of this Flagg, you don’t
care what happens to him.”

“Certainly not,” replied the Commodore,--a little too shortly, this time, for he
added, “I guess two hundred armed men behind intrenchments can take care of
themselves.”

Carhart settled back again, and the shadow of a smile crossed his face. Both men
were watching him, but he said nothing. And then General Carrington unexpectedly
took a hand. “See here,” he said with the air of a man who sweeps all
obstructions out of his way, “what did you come here for? What do you want?”

Carhart’s answer was deliberate, and was uttered with studied force. “I have
ridden thirty miles to talk with Mr. Durfee and he sees fit to treat me like a d
--n fool. I came here to see if we couldn’t avoid bloodshed. Evidently we
can’t.”

“What do you mean by that?” asked Carrington. Instead of replying, Carhart,
after a moment’s thought, turned inquiringly to Durfee. “Out with it,” cried
that gentleman. “What do you want?”

“I want you to call off Jack Flagg.”

“Evidently you _are_ a d--n fool,” said Durfee. But Carrington saw deeper.
“You’ve got something up your sleeve, Mr. Carhart,” he said. “What is it?”

Again Carhart turned to Durfee. And Durfee said, “What is it?”

“It’s this.” Carhart drew from a pocket his sketch-map of the region about the
trestle. “Here is Flagg--along this ridge, at the foot of these two knolls. His
line lies, you see, across our right of way. Of course, everybody knows that he
was sent there for a huge bluff, everybody thinks that I wouldn’t dare make real
war of it. Flagg opened up the ball by shooting Flint, my engineer in charge at
the La Paz. The shooting was done at night, when Flint was out in the valley
looking things over, unarmed and alone.”

“What Flint is that?” asked Carrington, sharply. “John B.”

“Hurt him much?”

“There is a chance that he will live.”

Carrington pursed his lips. “We foresaw Bourke’s move,” Carhart pursued, “some
time ago. And as it was plain that the mills in Pennsylvania--” he smiled a
little here, straight into Durfee’s eyes--“and the Queen and Cumberland Railroad
were planning to find it impossible to deliver our materials, we took up the
rails and ties of the Paradise Southern and brought them out to the end of the
track. In fact, we have our materials and supplies so well in hand that even if
Bourke could hold Barker Hills, we are in a position to work right ahead. Track-
laying is going on this minute. But we can’t cross the La Paz if Flagg doesn’t
move.”

“No, I suppose not,” said Durfee. “So it is necessary to make him move.”

“It is, eh?”

“Yes, and--” Carhart’s eyes were firing up; his right fist was resting in the
palm of his left hand--“and we’re going to do it, unless you should think it
worth while to forestall us. Possibly you thought I would send a force back to
Barker Hills. But I didn’t--I brought it up this way instead. I have three times
as many men as your Mr. Flagg has, and a third of them are on the knolls behind
Flagg.”

“And the fighting comes next, eh?” said Carrington. “Either Mr. Durfee will call
Flagg off at once, or there will be a battle of the La Paz. I think you see what
I am getting at, Mr. Durfee. Whatever the courts may decide, however the real
balance of control lies now, is something that doesn’t concern me at all. That
issue lies between you and my employer, Mr. De Reamer. But since you have chosen
to attack at a point where I am in authority, I shan’t hesitate to strike back.
It isn’t for me to say which side would profit by making it necessary for the
governor and his militia to take hold, but I will say that if the governor does
seize the road, he will find Mr. De Reamer in possession from Sherman to Red
Hills. I am prepared to lose a hundred--two hundred--men in making that good. I
have left orders for the shooting to begin at noon to-morrow. If you choose to
give any orders, the news must reach Mr. Tiffany by that time. I shall start
back at midnight, as my horse is tired, and I wish to allow plenty of time. You
can find me here, then, at any time up to twelve o’clock to-night.” He rose.
“That, Mr. Durfee, is what I came here to say.”

“Wait a minute, Mr. Carhart,” said General Carrington. “Did I understand you to
say that you have enough materials on the ground to finish the line?”

“Practically. Certainly enough for the present.”

“That’s interesting. Even to firewood, I suppose.”

Carhart bowed slightly. “Even to firewood,” he replied,--and walked away. Byers
was asleep in a chair, tipped back against the office wall. Carhart woke him,
and engaged a room, where, after eating the meal which Byers had ordered, they
could sleep all day. That evening, as Carhart and Byers were walking around from
the stable, they found General Carrington standing on the piazza. “Oh, Mr.
Carhart!” said he. “Good evening, sir,” said Carhart. The General produced a
letter. “Would you be willing to get this through to Flagg?”

“Certainly.”

“Rather nice evening.”

“Very.”

“Suppose we sample their liquid here--I’m sorry I can’t say much for it. What
will you gentlemen have?”

*       *       *       *       *

It was ten o’clock in the morning. Carhart, Byers, Dimond, and Tiffany stood on
the north knoll. “I’ll take it down,” said Byers, his eyes glowing through his
spectacles on either side of his long nose. “Go ahead,” said Carhart. “And good
luck to you!”

The instrument man took the message and started down the hill. Halfway there was
a puff of smoke from Flagg’s camp, and he fell. It was so peaceful there on the
hillside, so quiet and so bright with sunshine, the men could hardly believe
their eyes. Then they roused. One lost his head and fired. But Dimond, his eyes
blazing, swearing under his breath, handed his rifle to Carhart and went running
and leaping down the hillside. When he reached the fallen man, he bent over him
and took the letter from his hand and, standing erect, waved it. Still holding
it above his head, he went on down the hill and disappeared among the rocks that
surrounded the camp. *       *       *       *       *

Late that afternoon Flagg’s men straggled out through the hollow, bound for Red
Hills. And every large rock on either hillside concealed a man and a rifle. Here
and there certain rocks failed in their duty, and Flagg’s men caught glimpses of
blue-steel muzzles. So they did not linger. *       *       *       *       *

For a number of reasons, after an attempt to communicate by wire with a little
New Hampshire town, and after an unavailing search for representatives of the
clergy at La Paz and at Red Hills, it was decided to bury the instrument man
where he had fallen. “Near the track,” Young Van suggested. “He would like it
that way, I think.”

At six in the morning a long procession filed out of the camp. At the head went
the rude coffin on the shoulders of six surveyors and foremen. Paul Carhart and
Tiffany followed, the chief with a prayer book in his hand; and after them came
the men. The grave was ready. The laborers and the skilled workmen stood
shoulder to shoulder in a wide circle, baring their heads to the sun. Carhart
opened the book and slowly turned the pages in a quiet so intense that the
rustle of the leaves could be heard by every man there. For the ungoverned
emotions of these broken outcasts were now swayed to thoughts of death and of
what may come after. “I am the resurrection and the life ...” Carhart read the
immortal words splendidly, in his even, finely modulated voice. “... I know that
my Redeemer liveth.... Yet in my flesh shall I see God.... We brought nothing
into this world and it is certain we can carry nothing out.... For man walketh
in a vain shadow, and disquieteth himself in vain; he heapeth up riches, and
cannot tell who shall gather them.”

Gus Vandervelt raised his eyes involuntarily and glanced from one to another of
the lustful, weak, wicked faces that made up the greater part of the circle. “It
is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it
is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power.”

Could it be that these wretches were to be raised in incorruption? Was there
something hidden behind each of these animal faces, something deeper than the
motives which lead such men to work with their hands only that they may eat and
drink and die? “... for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For ... this mortal must put on
immortality.”

At the conclusion of the service Young Van, deeply moved, looked about for his
brother. But it seemed that the same impulse had come to them both, for he heard
a gruff, familiar voice behind him:--

“Look here, Gus, don’t you think you’ve been sort of a d--n fool about this
business?”

The young fellow wheeled around with a glad look in his eyes. He saw that his
brother was scowling, was not even extending his hand, and yet he knew how much
those rough words meant. “Yes,” he replied frankly, “I think I have.”

Old Van nodded, and they walked back to breakfast, side by side. Only once was
the silence broken, when Gus said, with some slight hesitation: “What are you
going to do next?--Coming back to Sherman with us?”

And Old Van turned his face away and looked off down the river and walked along
for a few moments without replying. Then, “No,” he finally got out, “guess I’ll
take a little vacation.” He paused, still looking away, and they strode on down
the slope. “Going over into Arizona with an outfit,” he added huskily. CHAPTER X

WHAT TOOK PLACE AT RED HILLS

The last spike in the western extension of the Sherman and Western was driven by
no less a personage than President De Reamer himself. In the circle of well-
dressed men about him stood General Carrington and a score of department heads
of the two lines. The thirty miles of track between the La Paz and Red Hills was
laid, without unusual incident, in twenty days--a brilliant finish to what had
been a record-breaking performance. There was to be a dinner at the Frisco
Hotel. Everybody knew now that General Carrington had promised to be there and
to speak a felicitous word or two welcoming the new C. & S. C. connection. After
the spike-driving, Mr. De Reamer, a thin, saturnine figure, could be seen moving
about through the little crowd. Once, it was observed, he and General Carrington
drew aside and talked in low, earnest tones. The reporters were there, of
course, and to these the president was urbane. They had gathered at first about
the General, but he had waved them off with a smiling “Talk with my friend De
Reamer there. He deserves whatever credit there may be in this thing.” And next
these keen-eyed, beardless men of the press bore down in a little group on
Carhart, Tiffany, and Young Van, who were standing apart. Tiffany was the first
to see them approaching. “Not a word, boys,” he said in a low voice. “Why not?”
asked Young Van. “I don’t know of anybody who deserves more credit than you
two.”

“Not a word,” Tiffany repeated. “It would cost me my job. Mr. De Reamer’s crazy
mad now because so much has been said about Paul here. I don’t care to get into
it,--just excuse me.”

The reporters were upon them. “Is that Mr. Tiffany?” asked one, indicating the
retreating figure. Carhart nodded. “Is it true, Mr. Carhart,” asked another,
“that he came out and fought under you at the La Paz?”

Carhart smiled. President De Reamer was passing with Mr. Chambers and had paused
only a few feet away. “There wasn’t any fighting at the La Paz,” he replied.
“There is a grave there,” the questioner persisted. “How do you know?”

“I rode out and saw it.”

“Then you should have ridden back the length of the line and you would have
found a few other graves.” The chief sobered. “You can’t keep a thousand to two
thousand men at work in the desert for months without losing a few of them. I’m
sorry that this is so, but it is.”

“Mr. Carhart,” came another abrupt question, this time from the keenest-
appearing reporter of them all, “What did you say to General Carrington and
Commodore Durfee when you saw them at the Frisco?”

Young Van looked at his chief and saw that the faintest of twinkles was in his
eyes. He glanced over his shoulder and made out that De Reamer had paused in his
conversation with Mr. Chambers, and was listening to catch Carhart’s reply. For
himself, Young Van was blazing with anger that this man, who had in his eyes
fairly dragged De Reamer through to a successful termination of the fight,
should be robbed of what seemed to him the real reward. He had still something
to learn of the way of the world, and everything to learn of the way of Wall
Street. Then he heard Carhart replying:--

“You must ask Mr. De Reamer about that. He directs the policy of the Sherman and
Western.”

And at this the president of the melancholy visage, and with him his vice-
president, passed on out of earshot. “Mr. Carhart,”--the reporters were still at
it,--“one of your assistants, J. B. Flint, was carried on a cot the other day to
the C. & S. C. station and put on a train. What was the matter with him?”

Carhart hesitated. Personally he cared not at all whether the facts were or were
not given to the public. He felt little pleasure in lying about them. Engineers
as a class do not lie very well. But he was doing the work of the Sherman and
Western, and the Sherman and Western, for a mixture of reasons, wished the facts
covered. And then, somewhat to his relief, the youngest reporter in the group
blundered out the question which let him off with half a lie. “Is it true, Mr.
Carhart,” asked this reporter, “that Mr. Flint has been really an invalid for
years?”

“Yes,” Carhart replied cheerfully, “it is true.”

The party seemed to be breaking up. Tiffany caught Young Van’s eye, and
beckoned. “Come on!” he called--“the Dinner!”

“They are starting, Mr. Carhart,” said Young Van. “Are they? All right.--That’s
all, boys. You can say, with perfect truth, that the Sherman and Western has
been completed to Red Hills.”

“And that the H. D. & W. hasn’t,” cried the youngest reporter. Carhart laughed.
“The H. D. & W. will have to do its own talking,” he replied. “But they aren’t
doing any.”

“Can’t help that,” said Carhart. “No more--no more!” And with Young Van he
walked off toward the Frisco. *       *       *       *       *

After the dinner the party broke up. Flint and Haddon went West with the Chicago
and Southern California officials. The others, who were to start eastward in the
late evening, rode off for a shoot on the plains. And it fell out that Carhart
and Young Van, who had, from different motives, declined the ride, were left
together at the hotel. “What are you going to do now, Gus?” asked the chief.
Young Van hesitated, then gave way to a nervous smile. Carhart glanced keenly at
him, and observed that he had lost color and that the pupils of his eyes were
dilated. Now that the strain was over he was himself conscious of a severe
physical let-down, and he was not surprised to learn that his assistant was
completely unstrung. Neither was he surprised to hear this hesitating yet
perfectly honest reply: “I’ve been thinking I’d start at the first saloon and
drink to the other end of town. Want to come along?”

“No,” Carhart replied, “I don’t believe I will, thanks. I meant to ask what work
you plan to take up next?”

“Nothing at all.”

“Nothing!--why so?”

“That is easy to answer.” Young Van laughed bitterly. “I have no offers.”

“I’m surprised at that.”

“You don’t really mean that, Mr. Carhart?”

“Certainly I do.”

“Well, it’s more than I can say. If a man came along and offered me a good
position, I should feel that I ought to decline it.”

“Why?” Carhart was genuinely interested. “Why?” Young Van rose and stood looking
gloomily down at his chief. “That’s a funny question for you to ask. You’ve been
watching my work for these months, and you’ve seen me developing new limitations
in every possible direction. All together, I’ve discovered about the choicest
crop any man ever opened up. When I started out, I thought I might some day
become an engineer. But if this job has taught me anything, it has taught me
that I’m the emptiest ass that ever tried to lay two rails, end to end, in a
reasonably straight line.” The tremulous quality of his voice told Carhart how
deeply the boy had taken his duties to heart. “I’ve been thinking to-day that
the best thing I can do will be to rent a few acres somewhere out on Long Island
and set up to raise chickens for the New York market: broilers, and maybe squabs
--they say there is money in squabs. I’d probably find I couldn’t even do that,
but it would be exciting for a while.”

“Let’s get out and tramp around a little, Gus,” was Carhart’s reply. “That will
do you as much good as a drunk.”

Young Van flushed at this, but followed the chief out to the long street along
which straggled the buildings that made up the settlement. These buildings were
mostly saloons, each with its harvest of plainsmen, cowboys, laborers, and
outcasts standing, sitting, or sprawling before the door. The day was hot with
the dry heat of September, from which even the memory of moisture had long ago
been sucked out. The dust rose at every step and settled on skin and clothing.
Now and then a lounging figure rose and moved languidly in through a saloon
door. Almost the only other movement to be seen was the heat vibration in the
atmosphere. The only sound, beyond a drawled remark now and then, and the clink
of glasses, was the tinkle of a crazy piano down the street. But the bronzed,
sinewy engineers, who had for months known no other atmosphere, stepped off in a
swinging stride, and soon were past the end of the street and out in the open.
Carhart himself was not above a sense of elation, and he fell into reminiscence.
“There is only one thing I have regretted, Gus,” he said. “If I could have got
hold of a big Italian I know of, with about a hundred of his men, this dinner
would have taken place some days ago.”

“I didn’t suppose that the work could have gone much faster,” replied the
younger man, moodily. “Yes, we might have saved that much time easily in the
cuts.”

“Working by hand?”

“Yes. My experience with this chap was up in New Jersey. The firm I was working
for at the time was developing a big ice business up in the lakes in the
northern part of the state. It was necessary to lay a few short lines of track
to connect the different ice-houses with the main line, and I was given charge
of it. I got my laborers--several hundred of them--from an Italian padrone in
New York City. Neither myself nor my assistants spoke their language, of course,
and, as it turned out, we didn’t think in their language either, for after two
or three days they all walked out--to a man. I could do nothing with them. So I
rang up the padrone and told him he would have to furnish a better lot than
that. ‘But,’ said he, ‘I can’t let you have any more men.’ I asked him why not.
‘Because you don’t know how to handle them.’ That was a surprising sort of an
answer, but I needed the laborers and I kept at him. Finally he said, ‘I’ll tell
you what I will do. I will send you the men, but you must let me send a foreman
with them, and you must agree to give all your instructions through that
foreman.’ ‘All right,’ I replied, ‘send them along. If they do the work, I won’t
bother them.’

“The next day, when I was at the office in Newark, one of my assistants called
me up and told me it would be worth my while to come right out on the work. When
I reached there, he met me and took me down the track to a deep cut where the
force was at work. The laborers were placed just as I have placed our men
lately, packed close together on terraces; and after I had watched for a moment
it dawned on me that I had never seen Italians work so fast as those were
working. ‘How did you do it?’ I asked. The assistant grinned, and advised me to
watch the man at the top, and then I saw that a giant of an Italian was standing
on the hill above the top terrace, where he could look down at the rows of
laborers. He wore a long ulster, and kept his hands in his pockets. “Pretty soon
a laborer down on the lowest terrace rested his pick against his knees and stood
up to stretch. ‘Watch now!’ whispered my assistant. I looked up at the big man
just in time to see him draw a stone out of his pocket--no pebble, mind you, but
a jagged piece of road ballast--and throw it right at that laborer’s head. The
fellow simply dodged it, seized his pick, and went to work harder than ever; and
not another man stopped, even long enough to draw a good breath during the
twenty minutes I stood there. Then the whistle blew, and as I was curious to see
what would happen I waited.”

“What did happen?” asked Young Van. “Nothing whatever, except that the laborers
crowded around this foreman and seemed proud to get a word from him.”

“But I don’t understand. What gave him such a hold over them?”

“I don’t understand it myself. But I know that if I strained things to the
breaking point, I could never get the work out of any laborers that he got out
of those Italians. With him, and them, we might have saved a good many days in
this work.”

“We might have tried the plan ourselves,” said the young man, with a chuckle.
“Only I fancy a little something would have happened if we had tried it.”

Young Van’s dangerous mood had passed. Carhart abruptly changed the subject.
“How would you like to go up into Canada with me, Gus?” he said. “With you?
There isn’t much doubt what to answer to that.”

“There will be some interesting things about the work--and time enough to do
them well, the way it looks now. I can’t promise you any remarkable inducements,
but you will get a little more than you have been paid here--I won’t say more
than you have earned here, for you have not been paid what you are worth.”

A moment passed before these words could get into the consciousness of the young
man. Then--they were just entering the village on their return--he stopped short
and looked into Paul Carhart’s face. “Do you mean that you really want me?” he
asked. Carhart tried not to smile as he said: “The choice of assistants is in my
hands, Gus, and I should find it difficult to justify myself for taking an
assistant whom I did not want--and especially for an undertaking that is likely
to last several years.”

Young Van was standing stock-still. “‘Several years,’” he repeated. Then, “This
seems to amount pretty nearly to a permanent offer?”

“Pretty nearly,” said Carhart, smiling now. At this they resumed their pace and
entered the town. Both were absorbed--Young Van in his astonishment that he had
found favor in the eyes of his chief, Carhart in his amusement over the utter
naïveté of the boy; and neither had an eye for the groups of desperate
characters that lined the street, least of all for the particular group before
the “Acme Hotel, J. Peters, Prop.”

It could not be supposed that the coming of fifteen hundred men to Red Hills,
their pockets lined with the earnings of those last irresistible weeks, should
pass without a great effort on the part of the local population to empty these
pockets promptly and thoroughly. If the two engineers had looked about more
sharply in the course of their walk, they would have seen more than one familiar
face. It was, indeed, a day to be remembered in Red Hills; there had been no
such wholesale contribution to local needs since the first ramshackle frame
building rose from the dust. Bartenders were busy; and deft-fingered, impassive
gentlemen from Chicago, and New Orleans, and Denver, and San Francisco were hard
at work behind green tables. All was quiet so far. The laborers were so
skilfully distributed that no green table was without its professional gambler;
and sweltering in the heat, gulping down the ever ready fluids, they went gayly,
gloomily, angrily, defiantly on, thumbing the dirty cards and relinquishing
their earnings. All was still quiet, for the business of the day was carried on
in back rooms and on upper floors. The uproar would not begin for a few hours
yet, and would hardly reach its full strength before dark. Among those to whom
music and feminine charms, such as they were, outweighed the delights of the
green table was Charlie the cook. He sat at an open window, upstairs, where he
could look down at the sleepy street and at the front of the Acme Hotel,
opposite. At first he had been content to make out what he could of the scene
through the cheesecloth sash curtains, but, under the mellowing influence of a
rapid succession of bottles, he had drawn the curtains, and now sat with his
knees against the sill, smiling down in a ruddy, benevolent fashion on everybody
and everything below. The parlor at his back was filled with workmen and their
companions. He had seen the engineers walk down the street, and had smiled in
genial fashion, though aware that they had not observed him. Now he saw them
returning, and he was ready, undaunted, to greet them again. Then something
happened. The door leading to the bar of the Acme Hotel suddenly opened, and a
hulking figure of a man appeared on the broad step. He was half drunk, and he
carried a revolver in his hand. Behind him, crowding out to see the fun, came a
dozen men. Charlie saw this, and, without in the slightest relaxing his genial
smile, he drew out one of his own revolvers and held it carelessly before him
with the muzzle resting on the window sill. Never for an instant did he take his
good-natured, bloodshot eyes from the man across the street. The engineers were
drawing rapidly nearer. Young Van was the first to take in the situation, and he
spoke in a low, quick voice, hardly moving his lips:--

“Don’t look up or start, Mr. Carhart--but Jack Flagg is standing in front of
that hotel on the left, and he looks as if he meant to shoot. What do you think
we had better do? I am not armed.”

“Neither am I,” Carhart replied. “Don’t pay any attention to him.”

[Illustration: “Charlie had not raised his revolver,--the muzzle still rested
easily on the sill,--but it was pointing straight at Jack Flagg’s heart.”]

That was all that was said. The two engineers swung along without a sign of
faltering. Jack Flagg slowly raised his weapon and took deliberate aim at Paul
Carhart. Still the two came on, not wholly able to conceal their sense of the
situation, but, rather, regardless of it. On Carhart’s face there was an
expression of stern contempt; Young Van was pale and his eyes were fixed
straight before him. At this point it seemed as if the strain must break one way
or the other. The men were not ten yards apart--in another moment it would be
less than two. A little gasp of admiration came from the watching groups. Flagg
heard this, and his hand wavered, but he recovered and took a short step
forward. Suddenly the silence was broken by a low whistle. Flagg started, and
looked around. Again came the low whistle. This time Flagg looked up, and caught
his first sight of Charlie in the window, and hesitated. Charlie had not raised
his revolver,--the muzzle still rested easily on the sill,--but it was pointing
straight at Jack Flagg’s heart. Flagg lowered his weapon a little way, then
looked as if he wished to raise it again, but on second thoughts this seemed
hardly wise, for Charlie was shaking his head in gentle disapproval. Then this
incident, which had shaved close to tragedy, suddenly ran off into farce. Flagg
pocketed his revolver, muttered something that nobody understood, and
disappeared through the bar-room door; and after a long breath of mingled relief
and disappointment, somebody laughed aloud. As for Charlie, he turned, still
playing with his revolver, and looked about the room. “Why!” he exclaimed. “Why!
Where’s the ladies?”

*       *       *       *       *

The engineers walked steadily up the street and turned into the hotel. Then
Young Van weakened, staggered to a chair, and sat limp and white. “I told you,”
he said breathlessly, “I told you I was--no good.”

Carhart, before replying, looked at his watch, and his hand shook as he did so.
“Brace up, Gus,” he said. “Brace up. I start East in an hour or so, and you are
coming with me, you know.”

*       *       *       *       *

THE GAME

_A TRANSCRIPT FROM REAL LIFE_

By JACK LONDON

Author of “The Call of the Wild,” “The Sea-Wolf,” etc. With Illustrations and
Decorations in Colors by Henry Hutt and     T. C. Lawrence. Cloth 12mo $1.50

“The Game” resembles “The Call of the Wild” very strongly in the     unity and
rapidity of its action, in its singleness of purpose,     and in its conveyed
impression of power. “The Game” is that     which takes place within the squared
ring; included in the story     is an intensely graphic portrayal of what the
prize ring stands     for and means to participants, spectators, and the general
scheme of things. THE STORM CENTRE

By CHARLES EGBERT CRADDOCK

Author of “The Prophet of the Great Smoky Mountains,” “The Story     of Old Fort
Loudon,” etc. Cloth 12mo $1.50

A war story; but more of flirtation, love, and courtship, than     of fighting
or history. It is a simple and pleasing tale of a     wounded Union officer in a
household strongly in sympathy with     the Confederate cause. The officer falls
in love with the young     lady of the house, and the son of the family, a
dashing young     Confederate officer, comes back to see his family. While there
the rebel officer secures information that enables the Southern     army to gain
an important strategical advantage, and the Union     officer is eventually
court-martialled. The tale is light and     entertaining and thoroughly
readable, and the background is that     associated with Miss Murfree’s well-
earned fame. THE HOUSE OF CARDS

_A RECORD_

By JOHN HEIGH

Sometime Major U.S.A.

Cloth 12mo $1.50

Glimpses of many fascinating figures are seen in this chronicle. The old, old
social warfares of Boston and Philadelphia come out     now and then amusingly.
The chief character is one of the modern     kings of finance--“a promoter? Not
at all! He reorganizes     railroads and things; one railway he has reorganized
three     times; and these rejuvenated concerns have been very grateful to
him. He is rich beyond all decent guessing, my friend of fifty     years, and I
regard him as the most dangerous man in America.”     So his story is told by
his oldest friend, with little thrusts     of grim humor; yet with a very strong
and sweet undercurrent of     sentiment. It has an altogether indescribable tone
that is     admirably in keeping with one’s mental picture of the veteran
soldier and scholar who tells the tale to young “Waltham Eliot,     late of
Boston, who has come to settle in Philadelphia, live on     law, and be honest!”
But in the last analysis it is a love-story     of yesterday, to-day, and
forever. MRS. DARRELL

By FOXCROFT DAVIS

Author of “Despotism and Democracy”

With Illustrations by William Sherman Potts

Cloth 12mo $1.50

“Mrs. Darrell” is a penetrating bit of analysis in the form of     an
exceptionally good story of the social side of high political     life in the
national capital. Its very genuine people are sketched with a light touch, a
delicacy of expression, that make the book enjoyable reading. Those who know the
city well enough to recognize the unerring     accuracy of even its minor
details will wonder over the skill     which has produced such real,
interestingly varied types. It is     full of highly diverting humor without a
trace of satirical     sting; on the contrary, its prevailing tone is
refreshingly     wholesome. A DARK LANTERN

_A STORY WITH A PROLOGUE_

By ELIZABETH ROBINS (C. E. RAIMOND)

Author of “The Magnetic North,” “Below the Salt,” etc. Cloth 12mo $1.50

This new book is one that must appeal very strongly to those who     enjoy the
novel of keen social analysis. Its pictures of English     and continental
society are as graphic, just, and authoritative     as any that have appeared in
fiction. One of the main characters     is a young German whose rank at once
excludes him from the     privileges of commonplace home life and gives him the
unconscious assumption of the overfêted man who has missed the     tonic of hard
work. Another is the young specialist in “nerves,”     accurate to the verge of
brutality, driven to misogyny by the     trivial aggravations of encountering
most often the vague     indecisions he hated most. And between them stands
Katharine     Dereham, a character of strong, unforgettable appeal to the
woman who looks on modern social life with open eyes. The Memoirs of an American
Citizen

By ROBERT HERRICK

Author of “The Common Lot,” “The Real World,” etc., etc. With 45 Illustrations
by F. B. Masters

Cloth 12mo $1.50

In his grasp on the popular interest Mr. Herrick’s mastery grows     with every
new book he writes. Just because they are human,     alive, and above all
sincere, they hold one as no tales of silks     and swords in an imaginary land
could possibly do. The     “American” of his new story walks into the Chicago
markets from     Indiana, to all appearances a tramp--in reality a country boy
who has quarrelled with his home surroundings and flung himself     into the
city to fight for a future. The novel opens in time and     scenes of Chicago in
1877. It includes among other incidents a     glimpse of the strained days of
the Haymarket riot and the trial     that followed. It is a novel with more than
a passing appeal to     ones sympathies, and taken as a whole seems certain to
be at     once the most popular and the best thing that Mr. Herrick has
written. THE SECRET WOMAN

By EDEN PHILLPOTTS

Author of “The American Prisoner,” “My Devon Year,” etc. Cloth 12mo $1.50

“There cannot be two opinions as to the interest and the power     of ‘The
Secret Woman.’ It is not only its author’s masterpiece,     but it is far in
advance of anything he has yet written--and     that is to give it higher praise
than almost any other     comparison with contemporary fiction could afford.”

THE LODESTAR

By SIDNEY R. KENNEDY

With Illustrations by The Kinneys

Cloth 12mo $1.50

“The novel is full of humor, a humor of a gentle, quiet, almost     wistful
quality, and its effect is to make us more in love with     life and with our
fellow-mortals.”--_News and Courier._

THE MASTER-WORD

_A STORY OF THE SOUTH TO-DAY_

By L. H. HAMMOND

Cloth 12mo $1.50

“Mrs. Hammond has conceived and portrayed what is perhaps the     most difficult
situation on earth.... The writer has a large     heart and wide sympathies; she
has told her story freely and     well, treading both firmly and delicately on
difficult     ground.... She has done some admirable work, and has achieved a
striking story quite out of the ordinary.”--_N. Y. Times._

THE GOLDEN HOPE

_A STORY OF THE TIME OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT_

By ROBERT H. FULLER

Cloth 12mo $1.50

“All together this is a powerful story and a vivid, correct, and     intensely
interesting picture of the most prosperous days of the     Macedonian
kingdom.”--_The Watchman._

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY     64-66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK