Produced by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images available at The
Internet Archive)

[Illustration: “Mr. Johnson, come down”]

The Girl of the                               Golden West

_NOVELIZED FROM THE PLAY_

BY                              DAVID BELASCO

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY                             J. N. MARCHAND

[Illustration]

GROSSET & DUNLAP                         PUBLISHERS :: NEW YORK

Copyright, 1911,                           By Dodd, Mead & Co.

_All rights reserved_

Published, October, 1911

“In those strange days, people coming from God knows where, joined      forces
in that far Western land, and, according to the rude custom      of the camp,
their very names were soon lost and unrecorded, and      here they struggled,
laughed, gambled, cursed, killed, loved and      worked out their strange
destinies in a manner incredible to us of      to-day. Of one thing only are we
sure--they lived!”

_Early History of California._

I

It was when coming back to the mines, after a trip to Monterey, that the Girl
first met him. It happened, too, just at a time when her mind was ripe to
receive a lasting impression. But of all this the boys of Cloudy Mountain Camp
heard not a word, needless to say, until long afterwards. Lolling back on the
rear seat of the stage, her eyes half closed,--the sole passenger now, and with
the seat in front piled high with boxes and baskets containing _rebozos_, silken
souvenirs, and other finery purchased in the shops of the old town,--the Girl
was mentally reviewing and dreaming of the delights of her week’s visit there,--
a visit that had been a revelation to one whose sole experience of the world had
until now been derived from life in a rough mining camp. Before her half-closed
eyes still shimmered a vista of strange, exotic scenes and people, the thronging
crowds of carnivals and fêtes; the Mexican girls swaying through the movements
of the fandango to the music of guitars and castanets; the great _rodeo_ with
its hundreds of _vaqueros_, which was held at one of the ranchos just outside
the town; and, lastly, and most vividly of all, the never-to-be-forgotten thrill
of her first bull-fight. Still ringing in her ears was the piercing note of the
bugle which instantly silenced the expectant throng; the hoarse roar that
greeted the entrance of the bull, and the thunder of his hoofs when he made his
first mad charge. She saw again, with marvellous fidelity, the whole colour-
scheme just before the death of the big, brave beast: the huge arena in its
unrivalled setting of mountain, sea and sky; the eager multitude, tense with
expectancy; the silver-mounted bridles and trappings of the horses; the many-
hued capes of the _capadors_; the gaily-dressed _banderilleros_, poising their
beribboned barbs; the red flag and long, slender, flashing sword of the cool and
ever watchful _matador_; and, most prominent of all to her eyes, the brilliant,
gold-laced packets of the gentlemen-_picadors_, who, after the Mexican fashion,
--so she had been told,--deemed it in nowise beneath them to enter the arena in
person. And so it happened that now, as the stage swung round a corner, and a
horseman suddenly appeared at a point where two roads converged, and was
evidently spurring his horse with the intent of coming up with the stage, it was
only natural that, even before he was near enough to be identified, the
_caballero_ should already have become a part of the pageant of her mental
picture. Up to the moment of the stranger’s appearance, nothing had happened to
break the monotony of her long return journey towards Cloudy Mountain Camp. Far
back in the distance now lay the Mission where the passengers of the stage had
been hospitably entertained the night before; still further back the red-tiled
roofs and whitewashed walls of the little pueblo of San Jose,--a veritable bower
of roses; and remotest of all, the crosses of San Carlos and the great pines,
oaks and cypresses, which bordered her dream-memory of the white-beach crescent
formed by the waves of Monterey Bay. The dawn of each day that swept her further
from her week in wonderland had ushered in the matchless spring weather of
California,--the brilliant sunshine, the fleecy clouds, the gentle wind with
just a tang in it from the distant mountains; and as the stage rolled slowly
northward through beautiful valleys, bright with yellow poppies and silver-white
lupines, every turn of the road varied her view of the hills lying under an
enchantment unlike that of any other land. Yet strange and full of interest as
every mile of the river country should have been to a girl accustomed to the
great forest of the Sierras, she had gazed upon it for the most part with
unseeing eyes, while her thoughts turned, magnet-like, backward to the delights
and the bewilderment of the old Mexican town. So now, as the pursuing horseman
swept rapidly nearer, each swinging stride of the powerful horse, each rhythmic
movement of the graceful rider brought nearer and more vivid the vision of a
handsome _picador_ holding off with his lance a thoroughly maddened bull until
the crowd roared forth its appreciation. “See, Señorita,” said the horseman, at
last galloping close to the coach and lifting his sombrero, “A beautiful bunch
of syringa,” and then, with his face bent towards her and his voice full of
appeal, he added in lower tone: “for you!”

For a brief second, the Girl was too much taken back to find the adequate words
with which to accept the stranger’s offering. Notwithstanding that in his glance
she could read, as plainly as though he had spoken: “I know I am taking a
liberty, but please don’t be angry with me,” there was something in his sweeping
bow and grace of manner that, coupled with her vague sense of his social
advantage, disconcerted her. A second more, however, and the embarrassment had
passed, for on lifting her eyes to his again she saw that her memory had not
played her false; beyond all chance of a mistake, he was the man who, ten days
earlier, had peered into the stage, as she was nearing Monterey, and later, at
the bull-fight, had found time to shoot admiring glances at her between his
daring feats of horsemanship. Therefore, genuine admiration was in her eyes and
extreme cordiality in her voice when, after a word or two of thanks, she added,
with great frankness:

“But it strikes me sort o’ forcible that I’ve seen you before.” Then, with
growing enthusiasm: “My, but that bull-fight was jest grand! You were fine! I’m
right glad to know you, sir.”

The _caballero’s_ face flushed with pleasure at her free-and-easy reception of
him, while an almost inaudible “_Gracias_” fell from his lips. At once he knew
that his first surmise, that the Girl was an American, had been correct. Not
that his experience in life had furnished him with any parallel, for the Girl
constituted a new and unique type. But he was well aware that no Spanish lady
would have received the advances of a stranger in like fashion. It was
inevitable, therefore, that for the moment he should contrast, and not wholly to
her advantage, the Girl’s unconventionality with the enforced reserve of the
_dulcineas_ who, custom decrees, may not be courted save in the presence of
_duennas_. But the next instant he recalled that there were, in Sacramento,
young women whose directness it would never do to mistake for boldness; and,--to
his credit be it said,--he was quick to perceive that, however indifferent the
Girl seemed to the customary formality of introduction, there was no suggestion
of indelicacy about her. All that her frank and easy manner suggested was that
she was a child of nature, spontaneous and untrammelled by the dictates of
society, and normally and healthily at home in the company of the opposite sex.
“And she is even more beautiful than I supposed,” was the thought that went
through his mind. And yet, the Girl was not beautiful, at least if judged by
Spanish or Californian standards. Unlike most of their women, she was fair, and
her type purely American. Her eyes of blue were lightly but clearly browed and
abundantly fringed; her hair of burnished gold was luxuriant and wavy, and
framed a face of singularly frank and happy expression, even though the features
lacked regularity. But it was a face, so he told himself, that any man would
trust,--a face that would make a man the better for looking at it,--a face which
reflected a soul that no environment could make other than pure and spotless.
And so there was, perhaps, a shade more of respect and a little less assurance
in his manner when he asked:

“And you like Monterey?”

“I love it! Ain’t it romantic--an’, my, what a fine time the girls there must
have!”

The man laughed; the Girl’s enthusiasm amused him. “Have you had a fine trip so
far?” he asked, for want of something better to say. “Mercy, yes! This ’ere
stage is a pokey ol’ thing, but we’ve made not bad time, considerin’.”

“I thought you were never going to get here!”

The Girl shot a coquettish glance at him. “How did you know I was comin’ on this
’ere stage?”

“I did not know,”--the stranger broke off and thought a moment. He may have been
asking himself whether it were best for him to be as frank as she had been and
admit his admiration for her; at last, encouraged perhaps by a look in the
Girl’s blue eyes, he ventured: “But I’ve been riding along this road every day
since I saw you. I felt that I must see you again.”

“You must like me powerful well...?” This remark, far from being a question, was
accompanied with all the physiognomical evidences of an assertion. The stranger
shot a surprised glance at her, out of the corner of his eye. Then he admitted,
in all truthfulness:

“Of course I do. Who could help...?”

“Have you tried not to?” questioned the Girl, smiling in his face now, and
enjoying in the full this stolen intimacy. “Ah, Señorita, why should I...? All I
know is that I do.”

The Girl became reflective; presently she observed:

“How funny it seems, an’ yet, p’r’aps not so strange after all. The boys--all my
boys at the camp like me--I’m glad you do, too.”

Meanwhile the good-natured and loquaciously-inclined driver had turned his head
and was subjecting the man cantering alongside of his stage to a rigid
inspection. With his knowledge of the various types of men in California at that
time, he had no difficulty in placing the status of this straight-limbed, broad-
shouldered, young fellow as a native Californian. Moreover, it made no
difference to him whether his passenger had met an old acquaintance or not; it
was sufficient for him to observe that the lady, as well as himself--for the
expression on her face could by no means be described as bored or scornful--
liked the stranger’s appearance; and so the better to take in all the points of
the magnificent horse which the young Californian was riding, not to mention a
commendable desire to give his only passenger a bit of pleasant diversion on the
long journey, he slowed his horse down to a walk. “But where do you live? You
have a rancho near here?” the Girl was now asking. “My father has--I live with
him.”

“Any sisters?”

“No,--no sisters or brothers. My mother was an American; she died a few years
ago.” And so saying, his glance sought and obtained an answering one full of
sympathy. “I’m downright sorry for you,” said the Girl with feeling; and then in
the next breath she added: “But I’m pleased you’re--you’re half American.”

“And you, Señorita?”

“I’m an orphan--my family are all dead,” replied the Girl in a low voice. “But I
have my boys,” she went on more cheerfully, “an’ what more do I need?” And then
before he had time to ask her to explain what she meant by the boys, she cried
out: “Oh, jest look at them wonderful berries over yonder! La, how I wish I
could pick ’em!”

“Perhaps you may,” the stranger hastened to say, and instantly with his free
hand he made a movement to assist her to alight, while with the other he checked
his horse; then, with his eyes resting appealingly upon the driver, he inquired:
“It is possible, is it not, Señor?”

Curiously enough, this apparently proper request was responsible for changing
the whole aspect of things. For, keenly desirous to oblige him, though she was,
there was something in the stranger’s eyes as they now rested upon her that made
her feel suddenly shy; a flood of new impressions assailed her: she wanted to
evade the look and yet foster it; but the former impulse was the stronger, and
for the first time she was conscious of a growing feeling of restraint. Indeed,
some inner voice told her that it would not be quite right for her to leave the
stage. True, she belonged to Cloudy Mountain Camp where the conventions were
unknown and where a rough, if kind, comradery existed between the miners and
herself; nevertheless, she felt that she had gone far enough with a new
acquaintance, whose accent, as well as the timbre of his voice, gave ample
evidence that he belonged to another order of society than her own and that of
the boys. So, hard though it was not to accede to his request and, at the same
time, break the monotony of her journey with a few minutes of berry-picking with
him in the fields, she made no move to leave the stage but answered the
questioning look of the obliging driver with a negative one. Whereupon, the
latter, after declaring to the young Californian that the stage was late as it
was, called to his horses to show what they could do in the way of getting over
the ground after their long rest. The young man’s face clouded with
disappointment. For two hundred yards or more he spoke not a word, though he
spurred his horse in order to keep up with the now fast-moving stage. Then, all
of a sudden, as the silence between them was beginning to grow embarrassing, the
Girl made out the figure of a man on horseback a short distance ahead, and
uttered an exclamation of surprise. The stranger followed the direction of the
Girl’s eyes and, almost instantly, it was borne in upon them that the horseman
awaited their coming. The Girl turned to speak, but the tender, sorrowful
expression that she saw on the young man’s face kept her silent. “That is one of
my father’s men,” he said, somewhat solemnly. “His presence here may mean that I
must leave you. The road to our ranch begins there. I fear that something may be
wrong.”

The Girl shot him a look of sympathetic inquiry, though she said nothing. To
tell the truth, the first thought that entered her mind at his words was one of
concern that their companionship was likely to cease abruptly. During the
silence that preceded his outspoken premonition of trouble, she had been
studying him closely. She found herself admiring his aquiline features, his
olive-coloured skin with its healthful pallor, the lazy, black Spanish eyes
behind which, however tranquil they generally were, it was easy for her to
discern, when he smiled, that reckless and indomitable spirit which appeals to
women all the world over. As the stage approached the motionless horseman, the
young man cried out to the _vaquero_, for such he was, and asked in Spanish
whether he had a message for him; an answer came back in the same language, the
meaning of which the Girl failed to comprehend. A moment later her companion
turned to her and said:

“It is as I feared.”

Once more a silence fell upon them. For a half mile or so, apparently deep in
thought, he continued to canter at her side; at last he spoke what was in his
mind. “I hate to leave you, Señorita,” he said. In an instant the light went out
of the Girl’s eyes, and her face was as serious as his own when she replied:

“Well, I guess I ain’t particularly crazy to have you go neither.”

The unmistakable note of regret in the Girl’s voice flattered as well as
encouraged him to go further and ask:

“Will you think of me some time?”

The Girl laughed. “What’s the good o’ my thinkin’ o’ you? I seen you talkin’
with them gran’ Monterey ladies an’ I guess you won’t be thinkin’ often o’ me.
Like ’s not by to-morrow you’ll ’ave clean forgot me,” she said with forced
carelessness. “I shall never forget you,” declared the young man with the
intense fervour that comes so easily to the men of his race. At that a half-
mistrustful, half-puzzled look crossed the Girl’s face. Was this handsome
stranger finding her amusing? There was almost a resentful glitter in her eyes
when she cried out:

“I ’mos’ think you’re makin’ fun o’ me!”

“No, I mean every word that I say,” he hastened to assure her, looking straight
into her eyes where he could scarcely have failed to read something which the
Girl had not the subtlety to conceal. “Oh, I guess I made you say that!” she
returned, making a child-like effort to appear to disbelieve him. The stranger
could not suppress a smile; but the next moment he was serious, and asked:

“And am I never going to see you again? Won’t you tell me where I can find you?”

Once more the Girl was conscious of a feeling of embarrassment. Not that she was
at all ashamed of being “The Girl of The Polka Saloon,” for that never entered
her mind; but she suddenly realised that it was one thing to converse pleasantly
with a young man on the highway and another to let him come to her home on
Cloudy Mountain. Only too well could she imagine the cool reception, if it
stopped at that, that the boys of the camp there would accord to this stylish
stranger. As a consequence, she was torn by conflicting emotions: an
overwhelming desire to see him again, and a dread of what might happen to him
should he descend upon Cloudy Mountain with all his fine airs and graces. “I
guess I’m queer--” she began uncertainly and then stopped in sudden surprise.
Too long had she delayed her answer. Already the stage had left him some
distance behind. Unperceived by her a shade of annoyance had passed over the
Californian’s face at her seeming reluctance to tell him where she lived. The
quick of his Spanish pride was touched; and with a wave of his sombrero he had
pulled his horse down on his haunches. Of no avail now was her resolution to let
him know the whereabouts of the camp at any cost, for already his “_Adios,
Señorita_,” was sounding faintly in her ears. With a little cry of vexation,
scarcely audible, the young woman flung herself back on the seat. She was only a
girl with all a girl’s ways, and like most of her sex, however practical her
life thus far, she was not without dreams of a romance. This meeting with the
handsome _caballero_ was the nearest she had come to having one. True, there was
scarcely a man at Cloudy but what had tried at one time or another to go beyond
the stage of good comradeship; but none of them had approached the idealistic
vision of the hero that was all the time lying dormant in her mind. Of course,
being a girl, and almost a queen in her own little sphere, she accepted their
rough homage in a manner that was befitting to such an exalted personage, and
gave nothing in return. But now something was stirring within her of which she
knew nothing; a feeling was creeping over her that she could not analyse; she
was conscious only of the fact that with the departure of this attractive
stranger, who had taken no pains to conceal his admiration for her, her journey
had been robbed of all its joy. A hundred yards further on, therefore, she could
not resist the temptation to put her head out of the stage and look back at the
place where she had last seen him. He was still sitting quietly on his horse at
the place where they had parted so unceremoniously, his face turned in her
direction--horse and rider silhouetted against the western sky which showed a
crimson hue below a greenish blue that was sapphire further from the horizon. II

Not until a turn of the road hid the stage from sight did the stranger fix his
gaze elsewhere. Even then it was not easy for him, and there had been a moment
when he was ready to throw everything to the winds and follow it. But when on
the point of doing so there suddenly flashed through his mind the thought of the
summons that he had received. And so, not unlike one who had come to the
conclusion that it was indeed a farewell, he waved his hand resignedly in the
direction that the stage had taken and, calling to his _vaquero_, he gave his
horse a thrust of the long rowel of his spur and galloped off towards the
foothills of the Sierras. For some miles the riders travelled a road which wound
through beautiful green fields; but master and man were wholly indifferent,
seeing neither the wild flowers lining each side of the road nor the sycamores
and live oaks which were shining overhead from the recent rains. In the case of
the young man every foot of the way to his father’s rancho was familiar. All
hours of the day and night he had made the trip to the highway, for with the
exception of the few years that had been given to his education in foreign
lands, his whole life had been passed on the rancho. Scarcely less acquainted
with the road than his young master was the _vaquero_, so neither gave a glance
at the country through which they were passing, but side by side took the miles
in silence. An hour passed with the young man still wrapt in thought. The truth
was, though he was scarcely ready to admit it, he had been hard hit. In more
ways than one the Girl had made a deep impression on him. Not only had her
appearance awakened his interest to the point of enthusiasm, but there was
something irresistibly attractive to him in her lack of affectation and
audacious frankness. Over and over again he thought of her happy face, her
straightforward way of looking at things and, last but not least, her evident
pleasure in meeting him. And when he reflected on the hopelessness of their ever
meeting again, a feeling of depression seized him. But his nature--always a
buoyant one--did not permit him to remain downcast very long. By this time they
were nearing the foothills. A little while longer and the road that they were
travelling became nothing more than a bridle path. Indeed, so dense did the
_chaparral_ presently become that it would have been utterly impossible for one
unacquainted with the way to keep on it. Animal life was to be seen everywhere.
At the approach of the riders innumerable rabbits scurried away; quail whirred
from bush to bush; and, occasionally, a deer broke from the thickets. At the end
of another hour of hard riding they were forced to slacken their pace. In front
of them the ground could be seen, in the light of a fast disappearing moon, to
be gradually rising. Another mile or two and vertical walls of rock rose on each
side of them; while great ravines, holding mountain torrents, necessitated their
making a short detour for the purpose of finding a place where the stream could
be safely forded. Even then it was not an easy task on account of the boulder-
enclosing whirlpools whose waters were whipped into foam by the wind that swept
through the forest. At a point of the road where there was a break in the
_chaparral_, a voice suddenly cried out in Spanish:

“Who comes?”

“Follow us!” was the quick answer without drawing rein; and, instantly, on
recognition of the young master’s voice, a mounted sentinel spurred his horse
out from behind an overhanging rock and closed in behind them. And as they were
challenged thus several times, it happened that presently there was quite a
little band of men pushing ahead in the darkness that had fallen. And so another
hour passed. Then, suddenly, there sprung into view the dark outlines of a low
structure which proved to be a corral, and finally they made their way through a
gate and came upon a long adobe house, situated in a large clearing and having a
kind of courtyard in front of it. In the centre of this courtyard was what
evidently had once been a fountain, though it had long since dried up. Around it
squatted a group of _vaqueros_, all smoking cigarettes and some of them lazily
twisting lariats out of horsehair. Close at hand a dozen or more wiry little
mustangs stood saddled and bridled and ready for any emergency. In colour, one
or two were of a peculiar cream and had silver white manes, but the rest were
greys and chestnuts. It was evident that they had great speed and bottom. All in
all, what with the fierce and savage faces of the men scattered about the
courtyard, the remoteness of the adobe, and the care taken to guard against
surprise, old Bartolini’s _hacienda_ was an establishment not unlike that of the
feudal barons or a nest of banditti according to the point of view. At the sound
of the fast galloping horses, every man on the ground sprang to his feet and ran
to his horse. For a second only they stood still and listened intently; then,
satisfied that all was well and that the persons approaching belonged to the
rancho, they returned to their former position by the fountain--all save an
Indian servant, who caught the bridle thrown to him by the young man as he swung
himself out of the saddle. And while this one led his horse noiselessly away,
another of the same race preceded him along a corridor until he came to the
_Maestro’s_ room. Old Ramerrez Bartolini, or Ramerrez, as he was known to his
followers, was dying. His hair, pure white and curly, was still as luxuriant as
when he was a young man. Beneath the curls was a patrician, Spanish face,
straight nose and brilliant, piercing, black eyes. His gigantic frame lay on a
heap of stretched rawhides which raised him a few inches from the floor. This
simple couch was not necessarily an indication of poverty, though his property
had dwindled to almost nothing, for in most Spanish adobes of that time, even in
some dwellings of the very rich, there were no beds. Over him, as well as under
him, were blankets. On each side of his head, fixed on the wall, two candles
were burning, and almost within reach of his hand there stood a rough altar,
with crucifix and candles, where a padre was making preparations to administer
the Last Sacraments. In the low-studded room the only evidence remaining of
prosperity were some fragments of rich and costly goods that once had been piled
up there. In former times the old Spaniard had possessed these in profusion, but
little was left now. Indeed, whatever property he had at the present time was
wholly in cattle and horses, and even these were comparatively few. There had
been a period, not so very long ago at that, when old Ramerrez was a power in
the land. In all matters pertaining to the province of Alta California his
advice was eagerly sought, and his opinion carried great weight in the councils
of the Spaniards. Later, under the Mexican regime, the respect in which his name
was held was scarcely less; but with the advent of the _Americanos_ all this was
changed. Little by little he lost his influence, and nothing could exceed the
hatred which he felt for the race that he deemed to be responsible for his
downfall. It was odd, in a way, too, for he had married an American girl, the
daughter of a sea captain who had visited the coast, and for many years he had
held her memory sacred. And, curiously enough, it was because of this enmity, if
indirectly, that much of his fortune had been wasted. Fully resolved that
England--even France or Russia, so long as Spain was out of the question--should
be given an opportunity to extend a protectorate over his beloved land, he had
sent emissaries to Europe and supplied them with moneys--far more than he could
afford--to give a series of lavish entertainments at which the wonderful
richness and fertility of California could be exploited. At one time it seemed
as if his efforts in that direction would meet with success. His plan had met
with such favour from the authorities in the City of Mexico that Governor Pico
had been instructed by them to issue a grant for several million of acres. But
the United States Government was quick to perceive the hidden meaning in the
extravagances of these envoys in London, and in the end all that was
accomplished was the hastening of the inevitable American occupation. From that
time on it is most difficult to imagine the zeal with which he endorsed the
scheme of the native Californians for a republic of their own. He was a leader
when the latter made their attack on the Americans in Sonoma County and were
repulsed with the loss of several killed. One of these was Ramerrez’ only
brother, who was the last, with the exception of himself and son, of a proud,
old, Spanish family. It was a terrible blow, and increased, if possible, his
hatred for the Americans. Later the old man took part in the battle of San
Pasquale and the Mesa. In the last engagement he was badly wounded, but even in
that condition he announced his intention of fighting on and bitterly denounced
his fellow-officers for agreeing to surrender. As a matter of fact, he escaped
that ignominy. For, taking advantage of his great knowledge of the country, he
contrived to make his way through the American lines with his few followers, and
from that time may be said to have taken matters into his own hand. Old Ramerrez
was conscious that his end was merely a matter of hours, if not minutes. Over
and over again he had had himself propped up by his attendants with the
expectation that his command to bring his son had been obeyed. No one knew
better than he how impossible it would be to resist another spasm like that
which had seized him a little while after his son had ridden off the rancho
early that morning. Yet he relied once more on his iron constitution, and
absolutely refused to die until he had laid upon his next of kin what he
thoroughly believed to be a stern duty. Deep down in heart, it is true, he was
vaguely conscious of a feeling of dread lest his cherished revenge should meet
with opposition; but he refused to harbour the thought, believing, not
unnaturally, that, after having imposed his will upon others for nearly seventy
years, it was extremely unlikely that his dying command should be disobeyed by
his son. And it was in the midst of these death-bed reflections that he heard
hurried footsteps and knew that his boy had come at last. When the latter
entered the room his face wore an agonised expression, for he feared that he had
arrived too late. It was a relief, therefore, to see his father, who had lain
still, husbanding his little remaining strength, open his eyes and make a sign,
which included the padre as well as the attendants, that he wished to be left
alone with his son. “Art thou here at last, my son?” said the old man the moment
they were alone. “Ay, father, I came as soon as I received your message.”

“Come nearer, then, I have much to say to you, and I have not long to live. Have
I been a good father to you, my lad?”

The young man knelt beside the couch and kissed his father’s hand, while he
murmured an assent. At the touch of his son’s lips a chill struck the old man’s
heart. It tortured him to think how little the boy guessed of the recent history
of the man he was bending over with loving concern; how little he divined of the
revelation that must presently be made to him. For a moment the dying man felt
that, after all, perhaps it were better to renounce his vengeance, for it had
been suddenly borne in upon him that the boy might suffer acutely in the life
that he intended him to live; but in another moment he had taken himself to task
for a weakness that he considered must have been induced by his dying condition,
and he sternly banished the thought from his mind. “My lad,” he began, “you
promise to carry out my wishes after I am gone?”

“Ay, father, you know that I will. What do you wish me to do?”

The old man pointed to the crucifix. “You swear it?”

“I swear it.”

No sooner had the son uttered the wished-for words than his father fell back on
the couch and closed his eyes. The effort and excitement left him as white as a
sheet. It seemed to the boy as if his father might be sinking into the last
stupor, but after a while he opened his eyes and called for a glass of
_aguardiente_. With difficulty he gulped it down; then he said feebly:

“My boy, the only American that ever was good was your mother. She was an angel.
All the rest of these cursed gringos are pigs;” and his voice growing stronger,
he repeated: “Ay, pigs, hogs, swine!”

The son made no reply; his father went on:

“What have not these devils done to our country ever since they came here? At
first we received them most hospitably; everything they wanted was gladly
supplied to them. And what did they do in return for our kindness? Where now are
our extensive ranchos--our large herds of cattle? They have managed to rob us of
our lands through clever laws that we of California cannot understand; they have
stolen from our people thousands and thousands of cattle! There is no infamy
that--”

The young man hastened to interrupt him. “You must not excite yourself, father,”
he said with solicitude. “They are unscrupulous--many of them, but all are not
so.”

“Bah!” ejaculated the old man; “the gringos are all alike. I hate them all, I--”
The old man was unable to finish. He gasped for breath. But despite his son’s
entreaties to be calm, he presently cried out:

“Do you know who you are?” And not waiting for a reply he went on with: “Our
name is one of the proudest in Spain--none better! The curse of a long line of
ancestors will be upon you if you tamely submit--not make these Americans suffer
for their seizure of this, our rightful land--our beautiful California!”

More anxiously than ever now the son regarded his father. His inspection left no
doubt in his mind that the end could not be far off. With great earnestness he
implored him to lie down; but the dying man shook his head and continued to grow
more and more excited. “Do you know who I am?” he demanded. “No--you think you
do, but you don’t. There was a time when I had plenty of money. It pleased me
greatly to pay all your expenses--to see that you received the best education
possible both at home and abroad. Then the gringos came. Little by little these
cursed Americanos have taken all that I had from me. But as they have sown so
shall they reap. I have taken my revenge, and you shall take more!” He paused to
get his breath; then in a terrible voice he cried: “Yes, I have robbed--robbed!
For the last three years, almost, your father has been a bandit!”

The son sprang to his feet. “A bandit? You, father, a Ramerrez, a bandit?”

“Ay, a bandit, an outlaw, as you also will be when I am no more, and rob, rob,
rob, these _Americanos_. It is my command and--you--have--sworn....”

The son’s eyes were rivetted upon his father’s face as the old man fell back,
completely exhausted, upon his couch of rawhides. With a strange conflict of
emotions, the young man remained standing in silence for a few brief seconds
that seemed like hours, while the pallor of death crept over the face before
him, leaving no doubt that, in the solemnity of the moment his father had spoken
nothing but the literal truth. It was a hideous avowal to hear from the dying
lips of one whom from earliest childhood he had been taught to revere as the
pattern of Spanish honour and nobility. And yet the thought now uppermost in
young Ramerrez’s mind was that oddly enough he had not been taken by surprise.
Never by a single word had any one of his father’s followers given him a hint of
the truth. So absolute, so feudal was the old man’s mastery over his men that
not a whisper of his occupation had ever reached his son’s ears. Nevertheless,
he now told himself that in some curious, instinctive way, he had _known_,--or
rather, had refused to know, putting off the hour of open avowal, shutting his
eyes to the accumulating facts that day by day had silently spoken of
lawlessness and peril. Three years, his father had just said; well, that
explained how it was that no suspicions had ever awakened until after he had
completed his education and returned home from his travels. But since then a
child must have noted that something was wrong: the grim, sinister faces of the
men, constantly on guard, as though the old _hacienda_ were in a state of siege;
the altered disposition of his father, always given to gloomy moods, but lately
doubly silent and saturnine, full of strange savagery and smouldering fire. Yes,
somewhere in the back of his mind he had known the whole, shameful truth; had
known the purpose of those silent, stealthy excursions, and equally silent
returns,--and more than once the broken heads and bandaged arms that coincided
so oddly with some new tale of a daring holdup that he was sure to hear of, the
next time that he chanced to ride into Monterey. For three years, young Ramerrez
had known that sooner or later he would be facing such a moment as this, called
upon to make the choice that should make or mar him for life. And now, for the
first time he realised why he had never voiced his suspicions, never questioned,
never hastened the time of decision,--it was because even now he did not know
which way he wished to decide! He knew only that he was torn and racked by
terrible emotions, that on one side was a mighty impulse to disregard the oath
he had blindly taken and refuse to do his father’s bidding; and on the other,
some new and unguessed craving for excitement and danger, some inherited
lawlessness in his blood, something akin to the intoxication of the arena, when
the thunder of the bull’s hoofs rang in his ears. And so, when the old man’s
lips opened once more, and shaped, almost inaudibly, the solemn words:

“You have sworn,--” the scales were turned and the son bowed his head in
silence. A moment later and the room was filled with men who fell on their
knees. On every face, save one, there was an expression of overwhelming grief
and despair; but on that one, ashen grey as it was with the agony of approaching
death, there was a look of contentment as he made a sign to the padre that he
was now ready for him to administer the last rites of his church. III

The Polka Saloon! How the name stirs the blood and rouses the imagination! No
need to be a Forty-Niner to picture it all as if there that night: the great
high and square room lighted by candles and the warm, yellow light of kerosene
lamps; the fireplace with its huge logs blazing and roaring; the faro tables
with the little rings of miners around them; and the long, pine bar behind which
a typical barkeeper of the period was busily engaged in passing the bottle to
the men clamorous for whisky in which to drink the health of the Girl. And the
spirit of the place! When and where was there ever such a fine fellowship--
transforming as it unquestionably did an ordinary saloon into a veritable haven
of good cheer for miners weary after a long and often discouraging day in the
gulches? In a word, the Polka was a marvellous tribute to its girl-proprietor’s
sense of domesticity. Nothing that could insure the comfort for her patrons was
omitted. Nothing, it would seem, could occur that would disturb the harmonious
aspect of the scene. But alas! the night was yet young. Now the moment for which
not a few of that good-humoured and musically-inclined company were waiting
arrived. Clear above the babel of voices sounded a chord, and the poor old
concertina player began singing in a voice that was as wheezy as his instrument:

“_Camp town ladies sing this song             Dooda! Dooda! Camp town race track
five miles long         Dooda! Dooda! Day!_”

Throughout the solo nothing more nerve-racking or explosive than an occasional
hilarious whoop punctuated the melody. For once, at any rate, it seemed likely
to go the distance; but no sooner did the chorus, which had been taken up, to a
man, by the motley crowd and was rip-roaring along at a great rate, reach the
second line than there sounded the reports of a fusillade of gun-shots from the
direction of the street. The effect was magical: every voice trailed off into
uncertainty and then ceased. Instantly the atmosphere became charged with
tension; a hush fell upon the room, the joyous light of battle in every eye, if
nothing else, attesting the approach of the foe; while all present, after
listening contemptuously to a series of wild and unearthly yells which announced
an immediate arrival, sprang to their feet and concentrated their glances on the
entrance of the saloon through which there presently burst a party of lively
boys from The Ridge. A psychological moment followed, during which the occupants
of The Polka Saloon glared fiercely at the newcomers, who, needless to say,
returned their hostile stares. The chances of war, judging from past
performances, far outnumbered those of peace. But as often happens in affairs of
this kind when neither side is unprepared, the desire for gun-play gave way to
mirthless laughter, and, presently, the hilarious crowd from the rival camp,
turning abruptly on their heels, betook themselves en masse into the dance-hall.
For the briefest of periods, there was a look of keen disappointment on the
faces of the Cloudy Mountain boys as they gazed upon the receding figures of
their sworn enemies; but almost in as little time as it takes to tell it there
was a tumultuous lining up at the bar, the flat surface of which soon resounded
with the heavy blows dealt it by the fists of the men desirous of accentuating
the rhythm when roaring out:

“_Gwine to run all night,      Gwine to run all day,      Bet my money on a bob-
tail nag,      Somebody bet on the bay!_”

Among those standing at the bar, and looking out of bleared eyes at a flashy
lithograph tacked upon the wall which pictured a Spanish woman in short skirts
and advertised “Espaniola Cigaroos,” were two miners: one with curly hair and a
pink-and-white complexion; the other, tall, loose-limbed and good-natured
looking. They were known respectively as Handsome Charlie and Happy Halliday,
and had been arguing in a maudlin fashion over the relative merits of Spanish
and American beauties. The moment the song was concluded they banged their
glasses significantly on the bar; but since it was an unbroken rule of the house
that at the close of the musician’s performance he should be rewarded by a
drink, which was always passed up to him, they needs must wait. The little
barkeeper paid no attention to their demands until he had satisfied the thirst
of the old concertina player who, presently, could be seen drawing aside the
bear-pelt curtain and passing through the small, square opening of the partition
which separated the Polka Saloon from its dance-hall. “Not goin’, old Dooda Day,
are you?” The question, almost a bellow, which, needless to say, was unanswered,
came from Sonora Slim who, with his great pal Trinidad Joe, was playing faro at
a table on one side of the room. Apparently, both were losing steadily to the
dealer whose chair, placed up against the pine-boarded wall, was slightly raised
above the floor. This last individual was as fat and unctuous looking as his
confederate, the Lookout, was thin and sneaky; moreover, he bore the sobriquet
of The Sidney Duck and, obviously, was from Australia. “Say, what did the last
eight do?” Sonora now asked, turning to the case-keeper. “Lose.”

“Well, let the tail go with the hide,” returned Sonora, resignedly. “And the ace
--how many times did it win?” inquired Trinidad. “Four times,” was the case-
keeper’s answer. All this time a full-blooded Indian with long, blue-black hair,
very thick and oily, had been watching the game with excited eyes. His dress was
part Indian and part American, and he wore all kinds of imitation jewelry
including a huge scarf-pin which flashed from his vivid red tie. Furthermore, he
possessed a watch,--a large, brassy-looking article,--which he brought out on
every possible occasion. When not engaged in helping himself to the dregs that
remained in the glasses carelessly left about the room, he was generally to be
found squatted down on the floor and playing a solitaire of his own devising.
But now he reached over Sonora’s shoulder and put some coins on the table in
front of the dealer. “Give Billy Jackrabbit fer two dolla’ Mexican chip,” he
demanded in a guttural voice. The Sidney Duck did as requested. While he was
shuffling the cards for a new deal, the players beat time with their feet to the
music that floated in from the dance-hall. The tune seemed to have an unusually
exhilarating effect on Happy Halliday, for letting out a series of whoops he
staggered off towards the adjoining room with the evident intention of getting
his fill of the music, not forgetting to yell back just before he disappeared:

“Root hog or die, boys!”

Happy’s boisterous exit caused a peculiar expression to appear immediately on
Handsome’s face, which might be interpreted as one of envy at his friend’s
exuberant condition; at all events, he proceeded forthwith to order several
drinks, gulping them down in rapid succession. Meanwhile, at the faro table, the
luck was going decidedly against the boys. In fact, so much so, that there was a
dangerous note in Sonora’s voice when, presently, he blurted out:

“See here, gambolier Sid, you’re too lucky!”

“You bet!” approved Trinidad, and then added: “More chips, Australier!”

But Trinidad’s comment, as well as his request, only brought forth the oily
smile that The Sidney Duck always smiled when any reference was made to his
game. It was his policy to fawn upon all and never permit himself to think that
an insult was intended. So he gathered in Trinidad’s money and gave him chips in
return. For some seconds the men played on without anything disturbing the game
except the loud voice of the caller of the wheel-of-fortune in the dance-hall.
But the boys were to hear something more from there besides, “Round goes the
wheel!” For, all at once there came to their ears the sounds of an altercation
in which it was not difficult to recognise the penetrating voice of Happy
Halliday. “Now, git, you loafer!” he was saying in tones that left no doubt in
the minds of his friends that Happy was hot under the collar over something. A
shot followed. “Missed, by the Lord Harry!” ejaculated Happy, deeply humiliated
at his failure to increase the mortuary record of the camp. The incident,
however, passed unnoticed by the faro players; not a man within sound of the
shot, for that matter, inquired what the trouble was about; and even Nick,
picking up his tray filled with glasses and a bottle, walked straightway into
the dance-hall looking as if the matter were not worth a moment’s thought. At
Nick’s going the Indian’s face brightened; it gave him the opportunity for which
he had been waiting. Nobly he maintained his reputation as a thief by quietly
going behind the bar and lifting from a box four cigars which he stowed away in
his pockets. But even that, apparently did not satisfy him, for when he espied
the butt of a cigar, flung into the sawdust on the floor by a man who had just
come in, he picked it up before squatting down again to resume his card playing.
The newcomer, a man of, say, forty years, came slowly into the room without a
word of salutation to anyone. In common with his fellow-miners, he wore a
flannel shirt and boots. The latter gave every evidence of age as did his
clothes which, nevertheless, were neat. His face wore a mild, gentle look and
would have said that he was companionable enough; yet it was impossible not to
see that he was not willingly seeking the cheer of the saloon but came there
solely because he had no other place to go. In a word, he had every appearance
of a man down on his luck. Men were continually coming in and going out, but no
one paid the slightest attention to him, even though a succession of audible
sighs escaped his lips. At length he went over to the counter and took a sheet
or two of the paper,--which was kept there for the few who desired to write
home,--a quill-pen and ink; and picking up a small wooden box he seated himself
upon it before a desk--which had been built from a rude packing-case--and began
wearily and laboriously to write. “The lone star now rises!”

It was the stentorian voice of the caller of the wheel-of-fortune. One would
have thought that the sound would have had the effect of a thunder-clap upon the
figure at the desk; but he gave no sign whatever of having heard it; nor did he
see the suspicious glance which Nick, entering at that moment, shot at Billy
Jackrabbit who was stealing noiselessly towards the dance-hall where the whoops
were becoming so frequent and evincing such exuberance of spirits that the
ubiquitous, if generally unconcerned, Nick felt it incumbent to give an
explanation of them. “Boys from The Ridge cuttin’ up a bit,” he tendered
apologetically, and took up a position at the end of the bar where he could
command a view of both rooms. As a partial acknowledgment that he had heard
Nick’s communication, Sonora turned round slightly in his seat at the faro table
and shot a glance towards the dance-hall. Contempt showed on his rugged features
when he turned round again and addressed the stocky, little man sitting at his
elbow. “Well, I don’t dance with men for partners! When I shassay, Trin, I want
a feminine piece of flesh an’ blood”--he sneered, and then went on to
amplify--“with garters on.”

“You bet!” agreed his faithful, if laconic pal, on feeling the other’s playful
dig in his ribs. The subject of men dancing together was a never-ceasing topic
of conversation between these two cronies. But whatever the attitude of others
Sonora knew that Trinidad would never fail him when it came to nice
discriminations of this sort. His reference to an article of feminine apparel,
however, was responsible for his recalling the fact that he had not as yet
received his daily assurance from the presiding genius of the bar that he stood
well in the estimation of the only lady in the camp. Therefore, leaving the
table, he went over to Nick and whispered:

“Has the Girl said anythin’ about me to-day, Nick?”

Now the rôle of confidential adviser to the boys was not a new one to the
barkeeper, nor was anyone in the camp more familiar than he with their good
qualities as well as their failings. Every morning before going to work in the
placers it was their custom to stop in at The Polka for their first drink--which
was, generally, “on the house.” Invariably, Nick received them in his shirt-
sleeves,--for that matter he was the proud possessor of the sole “biled shirt”
in the camp,--and what with his red flannel undershirt that extended far below
the line of his cuffs, his brilliantly-coloured waistcoat and tie, and his hair
combed down very low in a cowlick over his forehead, he was indeed an odd little
figure of a man as he listened patiently to the boys’ grievances and doled out
sympathy to them. On the other hand, absolutely devoted to the fair proprietress
of the saloon,--though solely in the character of a good comrade,--he never
ceased trying to advance her interests; and since one and all of her customers
believed themselves to be in love with her, one of his most successful methods
was to flatter each one in turn into thinking that he had made a tremendous
impression upon her. It was not a difficult thing to do inasmuch as long custom
and repetition had made him an adept at highly-coloured lying. “Well, you got
the first chance,” asseverated Nick, dropping his voice to a whisper. Sonora
grinned from ear to ear; he expanded his broad chest and held his head proudly;
and waving his hand in lordly fashion he sung out:

“Cigars for all hands and drinks, too, Nick!”

The genial prevaricator could scarcely restrain himself from laughing outright
as he watched the other return to his place at the faro table; and when, in due
course, he served the concoctions and passed around the high-priced cigars,
there was a smile on his face which said as plainly as if spoken that Sonora was
not the only person present that had reason to be pleased with himself. Then
occurred one of those terpsichorean performances which never failed to shock old
Sonora’s sense of the fitness of things. For the next moment two Ridge boys,
dancing together, waltzed through the opening between the two rooms and, letting
out ear-piercing whoops with every rotation, whirled round and round the room
until they brought up against the bar where they, breathlessly, called for
drinks. An angry lull fell upon the room; the card game stopped. However, before
anyone seated there could give vent to his resentment at this boisterous
intrusion of the men from the rival camp, the smooth, oily and inviting voice of
the unprincipled Sidney Duck, scenting easy prey because of their inebriated
condition, called out in its cockney accent:

“’Ello, boys--’ow’s things at The Ridge?”

“Wipes this camp off the earth!” returned a voice that was provocative in the
extreme--a reply that instantly brought every man at the faro table to his feet.
For a time, at least, it seemed as if the boys from The Ridge would get the
trouble they were looking for. A murmur of angry amazement arose, while Sonora,
his watery blue eyes glinting, followed up his explosive, “What!” with a
suggestive movement towards his hip. But quick as he was Nick was still quicker
and had The Ridge boy, as well as Sonora, covered before their hands had even
reached their guns. “You...!” the little barkeeper’s sentence was bristled out
and contained along with the expletives some comparatively mild words which gave
the would-be combatants to understand that any such foolishness would not be
tolerated in The Polka unless he himself “’lowed it to be ne’ssary.”

Not unnaturally The Ridge boys failed to see anything offensive in language that
had a gun behind it; and realising the futility of any further attempt to get
away with a successful disturbance they wisely yielded to superior quickness at
the draw. With a whoop of resignation they rushed back to the dance-hall where
the voice of the caller was exhorting the gents--whose partners were mostly big,
husky, hairy-faced men clumsily enacting parts generally assigned to members of
the gentler sex--to swing:

“With the right-hand gent, first partner swing with the left-hand gent, first
partner swing with the right-hand gent; first partner swing with the left-hand
gent, and the partner in the centre, and gents all around!”

Back at the faro table now,--the incident having passed quickly into oblivion,--
Sonora called to the dealer for “a slug’s worth of chips”--a request that was
promptly acceded to. But they had played only a few minutes when a thin but
somewhat sweet tenor voice was heard singing:

“_Wait for the waggon,      Wait for the waggon,      Wait for the waggon,
And we’ll all take a ride. Wait for the waggon--_”

“Here he is, gentlemen, just back from his triumphs of The Ridge!” broke in
Nick, whose province it was to act as master of ceremonies; and coming forward
as the singer emerged from the dance-hall he introduced him to the assembled
company in the most approved music-hall manner: “Allow me to present to you,
Jake Wallace the Camp favour-ite!” he said with an exaggeratedly low bow. “How-
dy, Jake! Hello, Jake, old man! How be you, Jake!” were some of the greetings
that were hurled at the Minstrel who, robed in a long linen duster, his face
half-blacked, and banjo in hand, acknowledged the words of welcome with a broad
grin as he stood bowing in the centre of the room. That Jake Wallace was a
typical camp minstrel from the top of his dusty stove-pipe hat to the sole of
his flapping negro shoes, one could see with half an eye as he made his way to a
small platform--a musician’s stand--at one end of the bar; nor could there be
any question about his being a prudent one, for the musician did not seat
himself until he had carefully examined the sheet-iron shield inside the
railing, which was attached in such a way that it could be sprung up by working
a spring in the floor and render him fairly safe from a chance shot during a
fracas. “My first selection, friends, will be ‘The Little--’” announced the
Minstrel with a smile as he begun to tune his instrument. “Aw, give us ‘Old Dog
Tray,’” cut in Sonora, impatiently from his seat at the card table. Jake bowed
his ready acquiescence to the request and kept right on tuning up. “I say, Nick,
have you saw the Girl?” asked Trinidad in a low voice, taking advantage of the
interval to stroll over to the bar. Mysteriously, Nick’s eyes wandered about the
room to see if anyone was listening; at length, with marvellous insincerity, he
said:

“You’ve got the first chance, Trin; I gave ’er your message.”

Trinidad Joe fairly beamed upon him. “Whisky for everybody, Nick!” he ordered
bumptuously; and as before the little barkeeper’s face wore an expression of
pleasure not a whit less than that of the man whom, presently, he followed to
the faro table with a bottle and four glasses. As soon as Trinidad had seated
himself the Minstrel struck a chord and announced impressively: “‘Old Dog Tray,’
gents, ‘or Echoes from Home!’” He cleared his throat, and the next instant in
quavering tones he warbled:

“_How of-ten do I pic-ture      The old folks down at home,      And of-ten
wonder if they think of me,      Would an-gel mother know me,      If back there
I did roam,      Would old dog Tray re-member me._”

At the first few words of his song the man at the desk who, up to this time, had
been wholly oblivious to what was taking place, arose from his seat, put the
ink-bottle back on the bar, opened a cigar-box there and took from it a stamp,
which he put on his letter. This he carried to a mail-box attached to the door;
then, returning, he threw himself dejectedly down in a chair and put his head in
his hands, where it remained throughout the song. At the conclusion of his solo,
the Minstrel’s emotions were seemingly deeply stirred by his own melodious voice
and he gasped audibly; whereupon, Nick came to his relief with a stiff drink
which, apparently, went to the right spot, for presently the singer’s voice rang
out vigorously: “Now, boys!”

No second invitation was needed, and the chorus was taken up by all, the singers
beating time with their feet and chips. All. HANG “_Oh, mother, an-gel mother,
are you waitin’ there beside the lit-tle cottage on the lea--_”

Jake. HANG “_On the lea--_”

All. HANG “_How of-ten would she bless me in all them days so fair-- Would old
dog Tray re-member me--_”

Sonora. HANG “_Re-member me._”

All the while the miners had been singing, the sad and morose-looking individual
had been steadily growing more and more disconsolate; and when Sonora rumbled
out the last deep note in his big, bass voice, he heaved a great sob and broke
down completely. In surprised consternation everyone turned in the direction
from whence had come the sound. But it was Sonora who, affected both by the
pathos of the song and the sight of the pathetic figure before them, quietly
went over and laid a hand upon the other’s arm. “Why, Larkins--Jim--what’s the
trouble--what’s the matter?” he asked, a thousand thoughts fluttering within his
breast. “I wouldn’t feel so bad.”

With a desperate effort Larkins, his face twitching perceptibly, the lines about
his eyes deepening, struggled to control himself. At last, after taking in the
astonished faces about him, he plunged into his tale of woe. “Say, boys, I’m
homesick--I’m broke--and what’s more, I don’t care who knows it.” He paused, his
fingers opening and closing spasmodically, and for a moment it seemed as if he
could not continue--a moment of silence in which the Minstrel began to pick
gently on his banjo the air of Old Dog Tray. “I want to go home!” suddenly burst
from the unfortunate man’s lips. “I’m tired o’ drillin’ rocks; I want to be in
the fields again; I want to see the grain growin’; I want the dirt in the
furrows at home; I want old Pensylvanny; I want my folks; I’m done, boys, I’m
done, I’m done...!” And with these words he buried his face in his hands. “_Oh,
mother, an-gel mother, are you waitin’--_”

sang the Minstrel, dolefully. Men looked at one another and were distressingly
affected; The Polka had never witnessed a more painful episode. Throwing a coin
at the Minstrel, Sonora stopped him with an impatient gesture; the latter nodded
understandingly at the same time that Nick, apparently indifferent to Larkin’s
collapse, began to dance a jig behind the bar. A look of scowling reproach
instantly appeared on Sonora’s face. It was uncalled-for since, far from being
heartless and indifferent to the man’s misfortunes, the little barkeeper had
taken this means to distract the miners’ attention from the pitiful sight.
“Boys, Jim Larkins ’lows he’s goin’ back East,” announced Sonora. “Chip in every
mother’s son o’ you.”

Immediately every man at the faro table demanded cash from The Sidney Duck; a
moment later they, as well as the men who were not playing cards, threw their
money into the hat which Sonora passed around. It was indeed a well-filled hat
that Sonora held out to the weeping man. “Here you are, Jim,” he said simply.
The sudden transition from poverty to comparative affluence was too much for
Larkins! Looking through tear-dimmed eyes at Sonora he struggled for words with
which to express his gratitude, but they refused to come; and at last with a sob
he turned away. At the door, however, he stopped and choked out: “Thank you,
boys, thank you.”

The next moment he was gone. At once a wave of relief swept over the room.
Indeed, the incident was forgotten before the unfortunate man had gone ten paces
from The Polka, for then it was that Trinidad suddenly rose in his seat, lunged
across the table for The Sidney Duck’s card-box, and cried out angrily:

“You’re cheatin’! That ain’t a square deal! You’re a cheat!”

In a moment the place was in an uproar. Every man at the table sprung to his
feet; chairs were kicked over; chips flew in every direction; guns came from
every belt; and so occupied were the men in watching The Sidney Duck that no one
perceived the Lookout sneak out through the door save Nick, who was returning
from the dance-hall with a tray of empty glasses. But whether or not he was
aware that the Australian’s confederate was bent upon running away he made no
attempt to stop him, for in common with every man present, including Sonora and
Trinidad, who had seized the gambler and brought him out in front of his card-
table, Nick’s eyes were fastened upon another man whom none had seen enter, but
whose remarkable personality, now as often, made itself felt even though he
spoke not a word. “Lift his hand!” cried Sonora, looking as if for sanction at
the newcomer, who stood in the centre of the room, calmly smoking a huge cigar.
Forcing up The Sidney Duck’s arms, Trinidad threw upon the table a deck of cards
which he had found concealed about the other’s person, bursting out with:

“There! Look at that, the infernal, good-for-nothin’ cheat!”

“String ’im up!” suggested Sonora, and as before he shot a questioning look at
the man, who was regarding the scene with bored interest. “You bet!” shouted
Trinidad, pulling at the Australian’s arm. “For ’eaven’s sake, don’t, don’t,
don’t!” wailed The Sidney Duck, terror-stricken. The Sheriff of Manzaneta
County, for such was the newcomer’s office, raised his steely grey eyes
inquisitorially to Nick’s who, with a hostile stare at the Australian, emitted:

“Chicken lifter!”

“String ’im! String ’im!” insisted Trinidad, at the same time dragging the
culprit towards the door. “No, boys, no!” cried the unfortunate wretch,
struggling uselessly to break away from his captors. At this stage the Sheriff
of Manzaneta County took a hand in the proceedings, and drawled out:

“Well, gentlemen--” He stopped short and seemingly became reflective. Instantly,
as was their wont whenever the Sheriff spoke, all eyes fixed themselves upon
him. Indeed, it needed but a second glance at this cool, deliberate individual
to see how great was his influence upon them. He was tall,--fully six feet one,
--thin, and angular; his hair and moustache were black enough to bring out
strongly the unhealthy pallor of his face; his eyes were steel grey and were
heavily fringed and arched; his nose straight and his mouth hard, determined,
but just, the lips of which were thin and drawn tightly over brilliantly-white
teeth; and his soft, pale hands were almost feminine looking except for the
unusual length of his fingers. On his head was a black beaver hat with a
straight brim; a black broadcloth suit--cut after the “’Frisco” fashion of the
day--gave every evidence that its owner paid not a little attention to it. From
the bosom of his white, puffed shirt an enormous diamond, held in place by side
gold chains, flashed forth; while glittering on his fingers was another stone
almost as large. Below his trousers could plainly be seen the highly-polished
boots; the heels and instep being higher than those generally in use. In a word,
it was impossible not to get the impression that he was scrupulously immaculate
and careful about his attire. And his voice--the voice that tells character as
nothing else does--was smooth and drawling, though fearlessness and sincerity
could easily be detected in it. Such was Mr. Jack Rance, Gambler and Sheriff of
Manzaneta County. “This is a case for you, Jack Rance,” suddenly spoke up
Sonora. “Yes,” chimed in Trinidad; and then as he gave the Australian a rough
shake, he added: “Here’s the Sheriff to take charge of you.”

But Mr. Jack Rance, the Sheriff of Manzaneta County, was never known to move
otherwise than slowly, deliberately. Taking from his pocket a smoothly-creased
handkerchief he proceeded to dust languidly first one and then the other of his
boots; and not until he had succeeded in flicking the last grain of dust from
them did he take up the business in hand. “Gentlemen, what’s wrong with the
cyards?” he now began in his peculiar drawling voice. Sonora pointed to the faro
table. “The Sidney Duck’s cheated!” he said--an accusation which was responsible
for a renewal of outcries and caused a number of men to pounce upon the faro
dealer. [Illustration: “This is our verdict and we are prepared to stand by it”]

Trinidad ran a significant hand around his collar. “String ’im! Come on, you--!”
once more he cried. But on seeing the Sheriff raise a restraining hand he
desisted from pulling the Australian along. “Wait a minute!” commanded the
Sheriff. The miners with the prisoner in their midst stood stock-still. Now the
Sheriff’s features lost some of their usual inscrutability and for a moment
became hard and stern. Slowly he let his eyes wander comprehensively about the
saloon: first, they travelled to a small balcony--reached by a ladder drawn down
or up at will--decorated with red calico curtains, garlands of cedar and
bittersweet, while the railing was ornamented with a wildcat’s skin and a
stuffed fawn’s head; from the ceiling with its strings of red peppers, onions
and apples they fell on a stuffed grizzly bear, which stood at the entrance to
the dance-hall, with a little green parasol in its paw and an old silk hat upon
its head; from it they shifted to the gaudy bar with its paraphernalia of fancy
glasses, show-cases of coloured liquors and its pair of scales for weighing the
gold dust; and from that to a keg, the top of which could be withdrawn without
engendering the slightest suspicion that it represented other than an ordinary
receptacle for liquor. Two notices tacked upon the wall also caught and held his
glance, his eyes dwelling most affectionately on the one reading: “A Real Home
For The Boys.”

That there was such a thing as sentiment in the make-up of the Sheriff of
Manzaneta County few people, perhaps, would have believed. Nevertheless, at the
thought that this placard inspired, he dismissed whatever inclination he might
have had to deal leniently with the culprit, and calmly observed:

“There is no reason, gentlemen, of being in a hurry. I’ve got something to say
about this. I don’t forget, although I am the Sheriff of Manzaneta County, that
I’m running four games. But it’s men like The Sidney Duck here that casts
reflections on square-minded, sporting men like myself. And worse--far worse,
gentlemen, he casts reflections on The Polka, the establishment of the one
decent woman in Cloudy.”

“You bet!” affirmed Nick, indignantly. “Yes, a lady, d’you hear me?” stormed
Sonora, addressing the prisoner; then: “You lily-livered skunk!”

“Oh, let’s string ’im up!” urged Trinidad. “Yes, come on, you...!” was
Handsome’s ejaculation, contriving, at last, to get his hands on the faro
dealer. But again the Sheriff would have none of it. “Hold on, hold on--” he
began and paused to philosophise: “After all, gents, what’s death? A kick and
you’re off;” and then went on: “I’ve thought of a worse punishment. Give him his
coat.”

Surprised and perplexed at this order, Handsome, reluctantly, assisted the
culprit into his coat. “Put him over there,” the Sheriff now ordered. Whereupon,
obedient to the instructions of that personage, The Sidney Duck was roughly put
down into a chair; and while he was firmly held into it, Rance strolled
nonchalantly over to the faro table and picked out a card from the deck there.
Returning, he quickly plucked a stick-pin from the prisoner’s scarf, saying,
while he suited his action to his words:

“See, now I place the deuce of spades over his heart as a warning. He can’t
leave the camp, and he never plays cyards again--see?” And while the men, awed
to silence, stood looking at one another, he instructed Handsome to pass the
word through the camp. “Ow, now, don’t si that! Don’t si that!” bawled out the
card sharp. The sentence met with universal approval. Rance waved an
authoritative hand towards the door; and the incident, a few seconds later,
passed into its place in the camp records. Albeit, in those seconds, and while
the men were engrossed in the agreeable task of ejecting The Sidney Duck, The
Polka harboured another guest, no less unwelcome, who made his way unobserved
through the saloon to become an unobtrusive spectator of the doings in the
dance-hall. IV

In the space of six months one can do little or much harm. The young bandit,--
for he had kept his oath to his father,--flattered himself that he had done
much. In all the mining camps of the Sierras the mere mention of the name of
Ramerrez brought forth execrations. Not a stage started out with its precious
golden freight without its passengers having misgivings that they would be held
up before reaching Sacramento. Messengers armed with shotguns were always to be
found at their post beside the drivers; yet, despite all precautions, not a week
passed without a report that the stage out of this or that camp, had been
attacked and the passengers forced to surrender their money and valuables. Under
no circumstances, however, were any of Ramerrez’s own countrymen molested. If,
by any chance, the road agent made a mistake and stopped a party of native
Californians or Mexicans, they were at once permitted to proceed on their way
with the bandit-leader’s profuse apologies. But it was altogether different with
Americans. The men of that race were compelled to surrender their gold; although
so far as he was concerned, their women were exempt from robbery. As a matter of
fact, he had few chances to show his chivalry, since few women were living, at
that time, in the Sierras. Nevertheless, it happened in rare instances that a
stage was held up which contained one or two of them, and they were never known
to complain of his treatment. And so far, at least, he had contrived to avoid
any serious bloodshed. Two or three messengers, it is true, had been slightly
wounded; but that was the most that his worst enemies could charge against him.
As for Ramerrez’s own attitude towards the life he was leading, it must be
confessed that, the plunge once taken, his days and nights were too full of
excitement and adventure to leave him time to brood. Somewhat to his own
surprise, he had inherited his father’s power of iron domination. Young as he
was, not one of his father’s seasoned band of cutthroats ever questioned his
right or his ability to command. At first, no doubt, they followed him through a
rude spirit of loyalty; but after a short time it was because they had found in
him all the qualities of a leader of men, one whose plans never miscarried.
Fully two-thirds of the present band were vassals, as it were, in his family,
while all were of Spanish or Mexican descent. In truth, Ramerrez himself was the
only one among them who had any gringo blood in his veins. And hence not a tale
of the outlaw’s doings was complete without the narrator insisting upon it that
the leader of the band--the road agent himself--closely resembled an American.
One and all of his victims agreed that he spoke with an American accent, while
the few who had been able to see his features on a certain occasion when the red
bandanna, which he wore about his face, had fallen, never failed to maintain
that he looked like an American. As a matter of fact, Ramerrez not only bore the
imprint of his mother’s race in features and in speech, but the more he made war
upon them, the more he realised that it was without any real feeling of
hostility. In spite of his early training and in spite of his oath, he could not
share his father’s bitterness. True, the gringos had wrecked the fortunes of his
house; it was due to them that his sole inheritance was an outlaw’s name and an
outlaw’s leadership. And yet, despite it all, there was another fact that he
could not forget,--the fact that he himself was one half gringo, one half the
same race as that of the unforgotten Girl whom he had met on the road to
Sacramento. Indeed, it had been impossible to forget her, for she had stirred
some depth in him, the existence of which he had never before suspected. He was
haunted by the thought of her attractive face, her blue eyes and merry,
contagious laugh. For the hundredth time he recalled his feelings on that
glorious day when he had intercepted her on the great highway. And with this
memory would come a sudden shame of himself and occupation,--a realisation of
the barrier which he had deliberately put between the present and the past. Up
to the hour when he had parted from her, and had remained spellbound, seated on
his horse at the fork of the roads, watching the vanishing coach up to the last
minute, he was still a Spanish gentleman, still worthy in himself,--whatever his
father had done,--to offer his love and his devotion to a pure and honest girl.
But now he was an outlaw, a road agent going from one robbery to another, likely
at any time to stain his hand with the life-blood of a fellow man. And this
pretence that he was stealing in a righteous cause, that he was avenging the
wrongs that had been done to his countrymen,--why, it was the rankest hypocrisy!
He knew in his heart that vengeance and race hatred had nothing whatever to do
with it. It was because he loved it like a game, a game of unforeseen, unguessed
danger. The fever of it was in his blood, like strong drink,--and with every
day’s adventure, the thirst for it grew stronger. Yet, however personally
daring, Ramerrez was the last person in the world to trust to chance for his
operations, more than was absolutely necessary. He handled his men with shrewd
judgment and strict discipline. Furthermore, never was an attack made that was
not the outcome of a carefully matured plan. A prime factor in Ramerrez’ success
had from the first been the information which he was able to obtain from the
Mexicans, not connected with his band, concerning the places that the miners
used as temporary depositories for their gold; and it was information of this
sort that led Ramerrez and his men to choose a certain Mexican settlement in the
mountains as a base of operations: namely, the tempting fact that a large amount
of gold was stored nightly in the Polka Saloon, at the neighbouring camp on
Cloudy Mountain. And there was still another reason. Despite the fact that his
heart had been genuinely touched by the many and unusual attractions of the
Girl, it is not intended to convey the idea that he was austere or incapable of
passion for anyone else. For that was not so. Although, to give the bandit his
due, he had remained quite exemplary, when one considers his natural charm as
well as the fascination which his adventurous life had for his countrywomen.
Unfortunately, however, in one of his weak moments, he had foolishly permitted
himself to become entangled with a Mexican woman--Nina Micheltoreña, by name--
whose jealous nature now threatened to prove a serious handicap to him. It was a
particularly awkward situation in which he found himself placed, inasmuch as
this woman had furnished him with much valuable information. In fact, it was she
who had called his attention to the probable spoils to be had in the American
camp near by. It can readily be imagined, therefore, that it was not without a
premonition of trouble to come that he sought the Mexican settlement with the
intention of paying her a hundred-fold for her valuable assistance in the past
and then be through with her for good and all. *       *       *       *       *

The Mexican or greaser settlements had little in them that resembled their
American neighbours. In the latter there were few women, for the long distance
that the American pioneers had to travel before reaching the gold-fields of
California, the hardships that they knew had to be encountered, deterred them
from bringing their wives and daughters. But with the Mexicans it was wholly
different. The number of women in their camps almost equalled that of the men,
and the former could always be seen, whenever the weather permitted, strolling
about or sitting in the doorways chatting with their neighbours, while children
were everywhere. In fact, everything about the Mexican settlements conveyed the
impression that they had come to stay--a decided contrast to the transient
appearance of the camps of the Americans. It was one evening late in the fall
that Ramerrez and his band halted just outside of this particular Mexican
settlement. And after instructing his men where they should meet him the
following day, he sent them off to enjoy themselves for the night with their
friends. For, Ramerrez, although exercising restraint over his band, never
failed to see to it that they had their pleasures as well as their duties--a
trait in his character that had not a little to do with his great influence over
his men. And so it happened that he made his way alone up the main street to the
hall where a dance was going on. The scene that met his eyes on entering the
long, low room was a gay one. It was a motley crowd gathered there in which the
Mexicans, not unnaturally, predominated. Here and there, however, were native
Californians, Frenchmen, Germans and a few Americans, the latter conspicuous by
the absence of colour in their dress; for with the exception of an occasional
coatless man in a red or blue shirt, they wore faded, old, black coats,--
frequently frock-coats, at that,--which certainly contrasted unfavourably, at
least so far as heightening the gaiety of the scene was concerned, with the
green velvet jackets, brilliant waistcoats with gold filigree and silver buttons
and red sashes of the Mexicans. That there was not a man present but what was
togged out in his best and was armed, it goes without saying, even if the
weapons of the Mexicans were in the form of murderous knives concealed somewhere
about their persons instead of belts with guns and knives openly displayed, as
was the case with the Americans. At the time of the outlaw’s entrance into the
dance-hall the fandango was over. But presently the fiddles, accompanied by
guitars, struck up a waltz, and almost instantly some twenty or more men and
women took the floor; those not engaged in dancing surrounding the dancers,
clapping their hands and shouting their applause. In order to see if the woman
he sought was present, it was necessary for Ramerrez to push to the very front
of the crowd of lookers-on, where he was not long in observing that nearly all
the women present were of striking appearance and danced well; likewise, he
noted, that none compared either in looks or grace with Nina Micheltoreña who,
he had to acknowledge, even if his feelings for her were dead, was a superb
specimen of a woman. Good blood ran in the veins of Nina Micheltoreña. It is not
in the province of this story to tell how it was that a favourite in the best
circles of Monterey came to be living in a Mexican camp in the Sierras. Suffice
it to say that her fall from grace had been rapid, though her dissolute career
had in no way diminished her beauty. Indeed, her features were well-nigh
perfect, her skin transparently clear, if dark, and her form was suppleness
itself as she danced. And that she was the undisputed belle of the evening was
made apparent by the number of men who watched her with eyes that marvelled at
her grace when dancing, and surrounded her whenever she stopped, each pleading
with her to accept him as a partner. Almost every colour of the rainbow had a
place in her costume for the occasion: The bodice was of light blue silk; the
skirt orange; encircling her small waist was a green sash; while her jet-black
hair was fastened with a crimson ribbon. Diamonds flashed from the earrings in
her ears as well as from the rings on her fingers. All in all, it was scarcely
to be wondered at that her charms stirred to the very depths the fierce passion
of the desperate characters about her. That Ramerrez dreaded the interview which
he had determined to have with his confederate can easily be understood by
anyone who has ever tried to sever his relations with an enamoured woman. In
fact the outlaw dreaded it so much that he decided to postpone it as long as he
could. And so, after sauntering aimlessly about the room, and coming,
unexpectedly, across a woman of his acquaintance, he began to converse with her,
supposing, all the time, that Nina Micheltoreña was too occupied with the
worshippers at her shrine to perceive that he was in the dance-hall. But it was
decidedly a case of the wish being father to the thought: Not a movement had he
made since he entered that she was not cognisant of it and, although she hated
to acknowledge it to herself, deep down in her heart she was conscious that he
was not as thoroughly under the sway of her dark eyes as she would have wished.
Something had happened in the last few weeks that had brought about a change in
him, but just what it was she was unable to determine. There were moments when
she saw plainly that he was much more occupied with his daring plans than he was
with thoughts of her. So far, it was true, there had been no evidences on his
part of any hesitation in confiding his schemes to her. Of that she was
positive. But, on the other hand, she had undoubtedly lost some of her influence
over him. It did not lessen her nervousness to realise that he had been in the
hall for some time without making any effort to see her. Besides, the
appointment had been of his own making, inasmuch as he had sent word by one of
his band that she should meet him to-night in this place. Furthermore, she knew
that he had in mind one of the boldest projects he had yet attempted and needed,
to insure success, every scrap of knowledge that she possessed. In the meantime,
while she waited for him to seek her out, she resolved to show him the extent of
her power to fascinate others; and from that moment never had she seemed more
attractive and alluring to her admirers, in all of whom she appeared to excite
the fiercest of passions. In fact, one word whispered in an ear by those
voluptuous lips and marvellously sweet, musical voice, and the recipient would
have done her bidding, even had she demanded a man’s life as the price of her
favour. It is necessary, however, to single out one man as proving an exception
to this sweeping assertion, although this particular person seemed no less
devoted than the other men present. He was plainly an American and apparently a
stranger to his countrymen as well as to the Mexicans. His hair was white and
closely cropped, the eyebrows heavy and very black, the lips nervous and thin
but denoting great determination, and the face was tanned to the colour of old
leather, sufficiently so as to be noticeable even in a country where all faces
were tanned, swarthy, and dark. One would have thought that this big, heavy, but
extremely-active man whose clothes, notwithstanding the wear and tear of the
road, were plainly cut on “’Frisco” patterns, was precisely the person
calculated to make an impression upon a woman like Nina Micheltoreña; and, yet,
oddly enough, he was the only man in the room whose attentions seemed
distasteful to her. It could not be accounted for on the ground of his
nationality, for she danced gladly with others of his race. Nor did it look like
caprice on her part. On the contrary, there was an expression on her face that
resembled something like fear when she refused to be cajoled into dancing with
him. At length, finding her adamant, the man left the room. But as time went by
and still Ramerrez kept aloof, Nina Micheltoreña’s excitement began to increase
immeasureably. To such a woman the outlaw’s neglect could mean but one thing--
another woman. And, finally, unable to control herself any longer, she made her
way to where the woman with whom Ramerrez had been conversing was standing
alone. “What has the Señor been saying to you?” she demanded, jealousy and
ungovernable passion blazing forth from her eyes. “Nothing of interest to you,”
replied the other with a shrug of her shoulders. “It’s a lie!” burst from Nina’s
lips. “I heard him making love to you! I was standing near and heard every tone,
every inflection of his voice! I saw how he looked at you!” And so crazed was
she by jealousy that her face became distorted and almost ugly, if such a thing
were possible, and her great eyes filled with hatred. The other woman laughed
scornfully. “Make your man stay away from me then--if you can,” she retorted. At
that the infuriated Nina drew a knife and cried:

“Swear to me that you’ll not see him to-night, or--”

The sentence was never finished. Quick as lightning Ramerrez stepped in and
caught Nina’s upraised arm. For one instant her eyes flashed fire at him;
another, and submissive to his will, she slipped the knife somewhere in the
folds of her dress and the attention that she had succeeded in attracting was
diverted elsewhere. Those who had rushed up expecting a tragedy returned, once
more, to their dancing. “I have been looking for you, Nina,” he said, taking her
to one side. “I want to speak with you.”

Nina laughed airily, but only another woman would have been able to detect the
danger lurking in that laugh. “Have you just come in?” she inquired casually.
“It is generally not difficult to find me when there is dancing.” And then with
a significant smile: “But perhaps there were so many men about me that I was
completely hidden from the view of the Señor.”

Ramerrez bowed politely his belief in the truth of her words; then he said
somewhat seriously:

“I see a vacant table over in the corner where we can talk without danger of
being overheard. Come!” He led the way, the woman following him, to a rough
table of pine at the farther end of the room where, immediately, a bottle and
two glasses were placed before them. When they had pledged each other, Ramerrez
went on to say, in a low voice, that he had made the appointment in order to
deliver to her her share for the information that led to his successful holdup
of the stage at a place known as “The Forks,” a few miles back; and taking from
his pocket a sack of gold he placed it on the table before her. There was a
silence in which Nina made no movement to pick up the gold; whereupon, Ramerrez
repeated a little harshly:

“Your share.”

Slowly the woman rose, picking up the sack as she did so, and with a request
that he await her, she made her way over to the bar where she handed it to the
Mexican in charge with a few words of instruction. In another moment she was
again seated at the table with him. “Why did you send for me to meet you here?”
she now asked. “Why did you not come to my room--surely you knew that there was
danger here?”

Carelessly, Ramerrez let his eyes wander about the room; no one was paying the
slightest attention to them and, apparently, there being nothing to fear, he
answered:

“From whom?”

For a brief space of time the woman looked at him as if she would ferret out his
innermost thoughts; at length, she said with a shrug of the shoulders:

“Few here are to be thoroughly trusted. The woman you were with--she knows you?”

“I never met her but once before,” was his laconic rejoinder. Nina eyed him
suspiciously; at last she was satisfied that he spoke the truth, but there was
still that cold, abstracted manner of his to be explained. However, cleverly
taking her cue from him she inquired in business-like tones:

“And how about The Polka Saloon--the raid on Cloudy Mountain Camp?”

A shade of annoyance crossed Ramerrez’ face. “I have decided to give that up--at
least for a time.”

Again Nina regarded him curiously; when she spoke there was a suspicious gleam
in her eyes, though she said lightly:

“Perhaps you’re right--it will not be an easy job.”

“Far from it,” quickly agreed the man. “But the real reason is, that I have
planned to go below for a while.”

The woman’s eyes narrowed. “You are going away then?”

“Yes.”

“And what about me? Do I go with you?”

Ramerrez laughed uneasily. “It is impossible. The fact is, it is best that this
should be our last meeting.” And seeing the change that came over her face he
went on in more conciliatory tones: “Now, Nina, be reasonable. It is time that
we understood each other. This interview must be final.”

“And you came here to tell me this?” blazed the woman, scowling darkly upon him.
And for the moment she looked all that she was reputed to be--a dangerous woman!
Receiving no answer, she spoke again. “But you said that you would love me
always?”

The man flushed. “Did I say that once? What a memory you have!”

“And you never meant it?”

“I suppose so--at the time.”

“Then you don’t love me any more?”

Ramerrez made no answer. For some moments Nina sat perfectly still. Her mind was
busy trying to determine upon the best course to pursue. At length she decided
to make one more attempt to see whether he was really in earnest. And if not....

“But to-night,” she hazarded, leaning far over the table and putting her face
close to his, her eyes the while flooded with voluptuousness, “you will come
with me to my room?”

Ramerrez shook his head. “No, Nina, all that is over.”

The woman bit her lips with vexation. “Are you made of stone? What is the matter
with you to-night? Is there anything wrong with my beauty? Have you seen anyone
handsomer than I am?”

“No....”

“Then why not come? You don’t hate?”

“I don’t hate you in the least, but I won’t go to your room.”

“So!”

There was a world of meaning in that one word. For a while she seemed to be
reflecting; suddenly with great earnestness she said:

“Once for all, Ramerrez, listen to me. Rather than give you up to any other
woman I will give you up to death. Now do you still refuse me?”

“Yes....” answered Ramerrez not unkindly and wholly unmoved by her threat.
“We’ve been good pals, Nina, but it’s best for both that we should part.”

In the silence that ensued the woman did some hard thinking. That a man could
ever tire of her without some other woman coming into his life never once
entered into her mind. Something told her, nevertheless, that the woman with
whom he had been conversing was not the woman that she sought; and at a loss to
discover the person to whom he had transferred his affections, her mind reverted
to his avowed purpose of withdrawing from the proposed Cloudy Mountain
expedition. The more Nina reflected on that subject the more convinced she
became that, for some reason or other, Ramerrez had been deceiving her. It was
made all the more clear to her when she recalled that when Ramerrez’ messenger
had brought his master’s message that she was to meet him, she had asked where
the band’s next rendezvous was to be, and that he, knowing full well that his
countrywoman had ever been cognizant of his master’s plans, had freely given the
desired information. Like a flash it came to her now that no such meeting-place
would have been selected for any undertaking other than a descent upon Cloudy
Mountain Camp. Nor was her intuition or reasoning at fault: Ramerrez had not
given up his intention of getting the miners’ gold that he knew from her to be
packed away somewhere in The Polka Saloon; but what she did not suspect, despite
his peculiar behaviour, was that he had taken advantage of the proximity of the
two camps to sever his relation, business and otherwise, with her. And yet, did
he but know it, she was destined to play no small part in his life for the next
few weeks! Nina Micheltoreña had now decided upon her future course of action:
She would let him think that his desire to break off all relations with her
would not be opposed. Ever a keen judge of men and their ways, she was well
aware that any effort to reclaim him to-night would meet with disaster. And so
when Ramerrez, surprised at her long silence, looked up, he was met with a
smiling face and the words:

“So be it, Ramerrez. But if anything happens, remember you have only yourself to
blame.”

Ramerrez was astounded at her cool dismissal of the subject. To judge by the
expression on his face he had indeed obtained his release far easier than he had
deemed it possible. As a matter of fact, her indifference so piqued him that
before he was conscious of his words he had asked somewhat lamely:

“You wish me well? We part as friends?”

Nina regarded him with well-simulated surprise, and replied:

“Why, of course--the best of friends. Good luck, _amigo_!” And with that she
rose and left him. And so it was that later that evening after assuring herself
that neither Ramerrez nor any of his band remained in the dance-hall, Nina, her
face set and pale, exchanged a few whispered words with that same big man
towards whom, earlier in the evening, she had shown such animosity. The effect
of these words was magical; the man could not suppress a grunt of intense
satisfaction. “She says I’m to meet her to-morrow night at the Palmetto
Restaurant,” said Ashby to himself after the woman had lost herself in a crowd
of her own countrymen. “She will tell where I can put my hands on this Ramerrez.
Bah! It’s too good to be true. Nevertheless, I’ll be on hand, my lady, for if
anyone knows of this fellow’s movements I’ll wager you do.”

At that moment Ashby, the Wells Fargo Agent, was nearer than ever before to the
most brilliant capture of all his career. *       *       *       *       *

Late the following afternoon, some five miles from the Mexican settlement, on a
small tableland high above a black ravine which was thickly timbered with the
giant trees of the Sierras, Ramerrez’ band was awaiting the coming of the
_Maestro_. It was not to be a long wait and they stood around smoking and
talking in low tones. Suddenly, the sound of horses climbing was heard, and soon
a horseman came in sight whose appearance had the effect of throwing them
instantly into a state of excitement, one and all drawing their guns and making
a dash for their horses, which were tied to trees. A moment later, however,
another horseman appeared, and laughing boisterously at themselves they slid
their guns back into their belts and retied their horses, for the man whom they
recognised so quickly, the individual who saved the situation, as it were, was
none other than Jose Castro, an ex-_padrona_ of the bull-fights and the second
in command to Ramerrez. He was a wiry, hard-faced and shifty-eyed Mexican, but
was as thoroughly devoted to Ramerrez as he had been to the young leader’s
father. On the other hand, the man who had caused them to fear that a stranger
had surprised them, and that they had been trapped, was Ramerrez or Johnson--the
name that he had assumed for the dangerous work he was about to engage in--and
they had failed to know him, dressed as he was in the very latest fashion
prevailing among the Americans in Sacramento in ’49. Nor was it to be wondered
at, for on his head was a soft, brown hat--large, but not nearly the proportions
of a sombrero; a plain, rough tweed coat and a waistcoat of a darker tan, which
showed a blue flannel shirt beneath it; and his legs were encased in boots
topped by dark brown leggings. In a word, his get-up resembled closely the type
of American referred to disdainfully by the miners of that time as a Sacramento
guy; whereas, the night before he had taken great pains to attire himself as
gaudily as any of the Mexicans at the dance, and he had worn a short black
jacket of a velvety material that was not unlike corduroy and covered with
braid; his breeches were of the same stuff; above his boots were leather
gaiters; and around his waist was a red sash. It was now close to four o’clock
in the afternoon and the band began their preparations for the raid. To the rear
of the small, open space where they had been waiting was a fairly good-sized
cave, in the opening of which they deposited various articles unnecessary for
the expedition. It took only a short time to do this, and within half an hour
from the time that their leader had so startled them by his strange appearance,
the outlaws were ready to take the trail for Cloudy Mountain. One comprehensive
glance the pseudo-American--and he certainly looked the part--shot at his
picturesque, if rough-looking followers, not a few of whom showed red bandannas
under their sombreros or around their necks--and then with a satisfied
expression on his face--for he had a leader’s pride in his men--he gave the
signal and led the way along and down the steep trail from the tableland. And as
from time to time he glanced back over his shoulders to where the men were
coming along in single file, he could see that in every eye was a glint of
exultation at the prospect of booty. After they had gone about three miles they
crossed the black ravine, and from there they began to ascend. Up and up they
went, the path very hard on the horses, until finally they came to the top of a
pass where it had been arranged that the band should await further instructions,
none going on further save the two leaders. Here, saddle-girths and guns were
inspected, the last orders given, and with a wave of the hand in response to the
muttered wishes of good luck, Johnson,--for as such he will be known from this
time on,--followed by Castro, made his way through the forest towards Cloudy
Mountain. For an hour or so Johnson rode along in that direction, checking the
speed of his horse every time the sun came into view and showed that there was
yet some time before sunset. Presently, he made a sign to Castro to take the
lead, for he had never been in this locality before, and was relying on his
subordinate to find a spot from which he could reconnoitre the scene of the
proposed raid without the slightest danger of meeting any of the miners. At a
very sharp turn of the road to the left Castro struck off through the forest to
the right and, within a few minutes, reached a place where the trees had thinned
out and were replaced by the few scrubs that grew in a spot almost barren. A
minute or so more and the two men, their horses tied, were able to get an
uninterrupted view of Cloudy Mountain. The scene before them was one of
grandeur. Day was giving place to night, fall to winter, and yet at this hour
all the winds were stilled. In the distance gleamed the snow-capped Sierras,
range after range as far as the eye could see to the northwest; in the opposite
direction there stood out against the steel-blue of the sky a succession of
wooded peaks ever rising higher and higher until culminating in the far-away
white mountains of the south; and below, they looked upon a ravine that was
brownish-green until the rays of the departing orb touched the leaves with opal
tints. Now the fast-falling sun flung its banner of gorgeous colours across the
western sky. Immediately a wonderful light played upon the fleecy cumuli
gathered in the upper heavens of the east and changed them from pearl to
brilliant scarlet. For a moment, also, the purple hills became wonderful piles
of dull gold and copper; a moment more and the magic hand of the King of Day was
withdrawn. In front of them now, dark, gloomy and threatening rose Cloudy
Mountain, from which the Mining Camp took its name; and on a plateau near its
base the camp itself could plainly be seen. It consisted of a group of miners’
cabins set among pines, firs and manzaneta bushes with two larger pine-slab
buildings, and scattered around in various places were shafts, whose crude
timber-hoists appeared merely as vague outlines in the fast-fading light. The
distance to the camp from where they stood was not over three miles as the crow
flies, but it appeared much less in the rarefied atmosphere. As the two bandits
stood on the edge of the precipice looking across and beyond the intervening
gulch or ravine, here and there a light twinkled out from the cabins and,
presently, a much stronger illumination shot forth from one of the larger and
more pretentious buildings. Castro was quick to call his master’s attention to
it. “There--that place with the light is The Palmetto Hotel!” he exclaimed. “And
over there--the one with the larger light is The Polka Saloon!” For even as he
spoke the powerful kerosene lamp of The Polka Saloon, flanked by a composition
metal reflector, flashed out its light into the gloom enveloping the desolate,
ominous-looking mountains. Johnson regarded this building long and thoughtfully.
Then his eyes made out a steep trail which zigzagged from The Polka Saloon up
the barren slopes of the mountain until it reached a cabin perched on the very
top, the steps and porch of which were held up by poles made of trees. There,
also, a light could be seen, but dimly. It was a strange place for anyone to
erect a dwelling-place, and he found himself wondering what manner of person
dwelt there. Of one thing he was certain: whoever it was the mountains were
loved for themselves, for no mere digger of gold would think of erecting a
habitation in view of those strange, vast, and silent heights! And as he
meditated thus, he perceived that the far off Sierras were forming a background
for a sinuous coil of smoke from the cabin. For some time he watched it curling
up into the great arch of sky. It was as if he were hypnotised by it and, in a
vague, shadowy way, he had a sense of being connected, somehow, with the little
cabin and its recluse. Was this feeling that he had a premonition of danger? Was
this a moment of foreboding and distrust of the situation yet to be revealed?
For like most venturesome men he always had a moment before every one of his
undertakings in which his instinct either urged him forward or held him back.
Suddenly he became conscious that his eyes no longer saw the smoke. He stared
hard to glimpse it, but it was gone. And with a supreme effort he wrenched
himself free from a sort of paralysis which was stealing away his senses. Now
the light in the cabin disappeared, and since the shades of night, for which he
had been waiting, had fallen, he called to the impatient and wondering Castro,
and together they went back to the trail. But even as they crossed the gulch and
reached the outskirts of the camp a great white moon rose from behind the
Sierras. To Castro, hidden now in the pines, it meant nothing so long as it did
not interfere with his purpose. As a matter of fact he was already listening
intently to the bursts of song and shouts of revelry that came every now and
then from the nearby saloon. But his master, unaccountably under the spell of
the moon’s mystery and romance, watched it until it shed its silvery and magic
light upon the lone cabin on the top of Cloudy Mountain, which Fate had chosen
for the decisive scene of his dramatic life. V

Inside The Polka, not a bit more, and not a bit less sardonic--it was this
imperturbability which made him so resistless to most people--than he was prior
to the banishment of The Sidney Duck, the Sheriff of Manzaneta County waited
patiently until the returning puppets of his will had had time to compose
themselves. It took them merely the briefest of periods, but it served to
increase visibly the long ash at the end of Rance’s cigar. At length he shot a
hawk-like glance at Sonora and proposed a little game of poker. “This time,
gentlemen--” he said, with a significant pause and accent--“just for social
recreation. What do you say?”

“I’m your Injun!” acquiesced Sonora, rubbing his hands together gleefully at the
prospect of winning from the Sheriff, whom he liked none too well. “That’s me,
too!” concurred Trinidad. “Chips, then, Nick!” called out the Sheriff, quietly
taking a seat at the table; while Sonora, bubbling over with spirits, hitched up
his trousers in sailor fashion and executed an impromptu hornpipe, bellowing in
his deep, base voice:

“_I shipped aboard of a liner, boys--_”

“_Renzo, boys, renzo_,” finished Trinidad, falling in place at the table. At
this point the outside door was unexpectedly pushed open, inward, and the
Deputy-Sheriff came into their midst. “Ashby just rode in with his posse,” he
announced huskily to his superior. The Sheriff flashed a look of annoyance and
inquired of the gaunt, hollow-cheeked, muscular Deputy whose beaver overcoat was
thrown open so that his gun and powder-flask showed plainly in his belt:

“Why, what’s he doing here?”

“He’s after Ramerrez,” answered the Deputy, eyeing him intently. Rance received
this information in silence and went on with his shuffling of the cards;
presently, unconcernedly, he remarked:

“Ramerrez--Oh, that’s the polite road agent who has been visiting the other
camps?”

“Yes; he’s just turned into your county,” declared the Deputy, meaningly.
“What?” Sonora looked dumbfounded. The Deputy nodded and proceeded to the bar.
And while he drained the contents of his glass, the Minstrel played on his
banjo, much to the amusement of the men, who showed their appreciation by
laughing heartily, the last bars of, “Pop Goes the Weasel.”

“Hello, Sheriff!” greeted Ashby, coming in just as the merriment over the
Minstrel’s little joke had died away. Ashby’s voice--quick, sharp and decisive--
was that of a man accustomed to ordering men, but his manner was suave, if a
trifle gruff. Moreover, he was a man of whom it could be said, paradoxical as it
may seem, that he was never known to be drunk nor ever known to be sober. It was
plain from his appearance that he had been some time on the road. Rance rose and
politely extended his hand. And, although the greeting between the two men was
none too cordial, yet in their look, as they eyed each other, was the respect
which men have for others engaged more or less in the same business and in whom
they recognise certain qualities which they have in common. In point of age
Ashby was, perhaps, the senior. As far as reputation was concerned, both men
were accounted nervy and square. Rance introduced him to Sonora and the others,
saying:

“Boys, Mr. Ashby of Wells Fargo.”

The latter had a pleasant word or two for the men; then, turning to the Deputy,
he said:

“And how are you these days?”

“Fit. And yourself?”

“Same here.” Turning now to the barkeeper, Ashby, with easy familiarity, added:
“Say, Nick, give us a drink.”

“Sure!” came promptly from the little barkeeper. “Everybody’ll have the same?”
inquired Ashby, turning once more to the men. “The same!” returned the men in
chorus. Thereupon, Nick briskly slapped down a bottle and four glasses before
the Sheriff, and leaving him to do the honours, disappeared into the dance-hall.
“Well, I trust the Girl who runs The Polka is well?” inquired Ashby, pushing his
glass near the bottle. “Fine as silk,” vouched Sonora, adding in the next
breath: “But, say, Mr. Ashby, how long you been chasin’ up this road agent?”

“Oh, he only took to the road a few months ago,” was Ashby’s answer. “Wells
Fargo have had me and a posse busy ever since. He’s a wonder!”

“Must be to evade you,” complimented Sonora, much to the discomfort of the
Sheriff. “Yes, I can smell a road agent in the wind,” declared Ashby somewhat
boastfully. “But, Rance, I expect to get that fellow right here in your county.”

The Sheriff looked as if he scouted the idea, and was about to speak, but
checked the word on his tongue. Then followed a short silence in which the
Deputy, smiling a trifle derisively, went out of the saloon. “Is this fellow a
Spaniard?” questioned the Sheriff, drawling as usual, but at the same time
jerking his thumb over his shoulder towards a placard on the wall, which read:

“FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS REWARD     FOR THE ROAD AGENT     RAMERREZ, OR
INFORMATION     LEADING TO HIS CAPTURE. (SIGNED) WELLS FARGO.”

“No--can’t prove it. The fact of his leading a crew of greasers and Spaniards
signifies nothing. His name is assumed, I suppose.”

“They say he robs you like a gentleman,” remarked Rance with some show of
interest. “Well, look out for the greasers up the road!” was Ashby’s warning as
he emptied his glass and put it down before him. “We don’t let them pass through
here,” shrugged Rance, likewise putting down his glass on the table. Ashby now
picked up the whisky bottle and carried it over to the deserted faro table
before which he settled himself comfortably in a chair. “Well, boys, I’ve had a
long ride--wake me up when The Pony Express goes through!” he called over his
shoulder as he put his coat over him. But no sooner was he comfortably ensconced
for a snooze than Nick came bustling in with a kettle of boiling water and
several glasses half-filled with whisky and lemon. Stopping before Ashby he said
in his best professional manner:

“Re-gards of the Girl--hot whisky straight with lemming extract.”

Ashby took up his glass, as did, in turn, the men at the other table. But it was
Rance who, with arm uplifted, toasted:

“The Girl, gentlemen, the only Girl in Camp, the Girl I mean to make Mrs. Jack
Rance!”

Confident that neither would catch him in the act, Nick winked first at Sonora
and then at Trinidad. That the little barkeeper was successful in making the
former, at least, believe that he possessed the Girl’s affections was manifested
by the big miner’s next remark. “That’s a joke, Rance. She makes you look like a
Chinaman.”

Rance sprang to his feet, white with rage. “You prove that!” he shouted. “In
what particular spot will you have it?” taunted Sonora, as his hand crept for
his gun. Simultaneously every man in the room made a dash for cover. Nick ducked
behind the bar, for, as he told himself when safely settled there, he was too
old a bird to get anywhere near the line of fire when two old stagers got to
making lead fly about. Nor was Trinidad slow in arriving at the other end of the
bar where he caromed against Jake, who had dropped his banjo and was frantically
trying to kick the spring of the iron shield in an endeavour to protect himself
--a feat which, at last, he succeeded in performing. But, fortunately, for all
concerned, as the two men stood eyeing each other, their hands on their hips
ready to draw, Nick, from his position behind the bar, glimpsed through the
window the Girl on the point of entering the saloon. “Here comes the Girl!” he
cried excitedly. “Aw, leave your guns alone--take your drinks, quick!”

For a fraction of a second the men looked sheepishly at one another, even Nick
appearing a trifle uncomfortable, as he picked up the kettle and went off with
it. “Once more we’re friends, eh, boys?” said Rance, with a forced laugh; and
then as he lifted his glass high in the air, he gave the toast:

“The Girl!”

“The Girl!” repeated all--all save Ashby, whose snores by this time could be
heard throughout the big room--and drained their glasses. VI

There was a general movement towards the bar when the fair proprietress of The
Polka, who had lingered longer than usual in her little cabin on top of the
mountain, breezily entered the place by the main door. In a coarse, blue skirt,
and rough, white flannel blouse, cut away and held in place at the throat by a
crimson ribbon, the Girl made a pretty picture; it was not difficult to see why
the boys of Cloudy Mountain Camp had a feeling which fell little short of
adoration for this sun-browned maid, with the spirit of the mountain in her
eyes. That each in his own way had given her to understand that he was
desperately smitten with her, goes without saying. But, although she accepted
their rough homage as a matter of course, such a thought as falling in love with
anyone of them had never entered her mind. As far back, almost, as she could
remember, the Girl had lived among them and had ever been a true comrade,
sharing their disappointments and thrilling with their successes. Of a nature
pure and simple, she was, nevertheless, frank and outspoken. Moreover, she knew
to a dot what was meant when someone--bolder than his mates--stretched out his
arms to her. One such exhibition on a man’s part she was likely to forgive and
forget, but the wrath and scorn that had blazed forth from her blue eyes on such
an occasion had been sufficient to prevent a repetition of the offence. In
short, unspoiled by their coarse flattery, and, to all appearances, happy and
care-free, she attended to the running of The Polka wholly unsmirched by her
environment. But a keen observer would not have failed to detect that the Girl
took a little less pleasure in her surroundings than she had taken in them
before she had made the trip to Monterey. Downright glad, to use her own
expression, as she had been on her return to see the boys of the camp and hear
their boisterous shouts of welcome when the stage drew up in front of The Polka,
she had to acknowledge that her home-coming was not quite what she expected. It
was as if she had suddenly been startled out of a beautiful dream wherein she
had been listening to the soft music of her lover’s voice and brought face to
face with the actualities of life, which, in her case, to say the least, were
very real. For hours after leaving her admirer sitting motionless on his horse
on the great highway between Monterey and Sacramento, the Girl had indulged in
some pertinent thoughts which, if the truth were known, were anything but
complimentary to her behaviour. And, however successful she was later on in
persuading herself that he would eventually seek her out, there was no question
that at first she felt that the chances of her ever setting eyes on him again
were almost negligible. All the more bitterly, therefore, did she regret her
folly in not having told him where she lived; particularly so since she assured
herself that not only was he the handsomest man that she had ever seen, but that
he was the only one who had ever succeeded in chaining her attention. That he
had been making love to her with his eyes, if not with words, she knew only too
well--a fact that had been anything but displeasing to her. Indeed, far from
having felt sorry that she had encouraged him, she, unblushingly, acknowledged
to herself that, if she had the thing to do over again, she would encourage him
still more. Was she then a flirt? Not at all, in the common acceptation of the
word. All her knowledge of the ways of the world had been derived from Mother
Nature, who had supplied her with a quick and ready wit to turn aside, with a
smile, the protestations of the boys; had taught her how to live on intimate
terms with them and yet not be intimate; but when it came to playing at love,
which every city maid of the same age is an adept at, she was strangely
ignorant. Of a truth, then, it was something far broader and deeper that had
entered into her heart--love. Not infrequently love comes as suddenly as this to
young women who live in small mining camps or out-of-the-way places where the
men are practically of a type; it is their unfamiliarity with the class which a
stranger represents when he makes his appearance in their midst that is
responsible, fully as much as his own personality, for their being attracted to
him. It is not impossible, of course, that if the Girl had met him in Cloudy,--
say as a miner there,--the result would have been precisely the same. But it is
much more likely that the attendant conditions of their meeting aided him in
appealing to her imagination, and in touching a chord in her nature which, under
other circumstances, would not have responded in as many months as there were
minutes on that eventful day. Little wonder then, that as each succeeding mile
travelled by the stage took her further and further away from him, something
which, as yet, she did not dare to name, kept tugging at her heartstrings and
which she endeavoured to overcome by listening to the stage driver’s long-winded
reminiscences and anecdotes concerning the country through which they were
passing. But, although she made a brave effort to appear interested, it did not
take him long to realise that something was on his passenger’s mind and, being a
wise man, he gradually relapsed into silence, with the result that, before the
long journey ended at Cloudy Mountain, she had deceived herself into believing
that she was certain to see her admirer again. But as the days grew into weeks,
the weeks into months, and the Girl neither saw nor heard anything of him, it
was inevitable that the picture that he had left on her mind should begin to
grow dim. Nevertheless, it was surprising what a knack his figure had of
appearing before her at various times of the day and night, when she never
failed to compare him with the miners in the camp, and, needless to say,
unflatteringly to them. There came a time, it is true, when she was sorely
tempted to tell one of them something of this new-found friend of hers; but
rightly surmising the effect that her praising of her paragon would have upon
the recipient of her confidences, she wisely resolved to lock up his image in
her heart. Of course, there were moments, too, when the Girl regretted that
there was no other woman--some friend of her own sex in the camp--to whom she
could confide her little romance. But since that boon was denied her, she took
to seeking out the most solitary places to dream of him. In such moods she would
climb to a high crag, a few feet from her cabin, and with a reminiscent and far-
away look in her eyes she would sit for hours gazing at the great canyons and
gorges, the broad forests and wooded hillsides, the waterfalls flashing silver
in the distance, and, above all, at the wonderously-grand and snow-capped peaks
of the main range. At other times she would take the trail leading from the camp
to the country below, and after wandering about aimlessly in the beautiful and
mysterious forests, she would select some little glen through which a brook
trickled and murmured underneath the ferns into a pool, and seating herself on a
clump of velvet moss, the great sugar pines and firs forming a canopy over her
head, she would whisper her secret thoughts and wild hopes to the gorgeously-
plumed birds and saucy squirrels scampering all about her. The hours spent thus
were as oases in her otherwise practical existence, and after a while she would
return laden down with great bunches of ferns and wild flowers which,
eventually, found a place on the walls of The Polka. *       *       *       *
*

Glancing at the bar to see that everything was to her satisfaction, the Girl
greeted the boys warmly, almost rapturously with:

“Hello, boys! How’s everythin’? Gettin’ taken care of?”

“Hello, Girl!” sang out Sonora in what he considered was his most fetching
manner. He had been the first to reach the coveted position opposite the Girl,
although Handsome, who had followed her in, was leaning at the end of the bar
nearest to the dance-hall. “Hello, Sonora!” returned the Girl with an amused
smile, for it was impossible with her keen sense of humour not to see Sonora’s
attempts to make himself irresistible to her. Nor did she fail to observe that
Trinidad, likewise, had spruced himself up a little more than usual, with the
same purpose in mind. “Hello, Girl!” he said, strolling up to her with a
ludicrous swagger. “Hello, Trin!” came from the Girl, smilingly. There was an
awkward pause in which both Sonora and Trinidad floundered about in their minds
for something to say; at length, a brilliant inspiration came to the former, and
he asked:

“Say, Girl, make me a prairie oyster, will you?”

“All, right, Sonora, I’ll fix you right up,” returned the Girl, smiling to
herself at his effort. But at the moment that she was reaching for a bottle back
of the bar, a terrific whoop came from the dance-hall, and ever-watchful lest
the boys’ fun should get beyond her control, she called to her factotum to quiet
things down in the next room, concluding warningly: “They’ve had about enough.”

When the barkeeper had gone to do her bidding, the Girl picked up an egg, and,
poising it over a glass, she went on:

“Say, look ’ere, Sonora, before I crack this ’ere egg, I’d like to state that
eggs is four bits apiece. Only two hens left--” She broke off short, and turning
upon Handsome, who had been gradually sidling up until his elbows almost touched
hers, she repulsed him a trifle impatiently:

“Oh, run away, Handsome!”

A flush of pleasure at Handsome’s evident discomfiture spread over Sonora’s
countenance, and comical, indeed, to the Girl, was the majestic air he took on
when he ordered recklessly:

“Oh, crack the egg--I’ll stand for it.”

But Sonora’s fancied advantage over the others was of short duration, for the
next instant Nick, stepping quickly forward with a drink, handed it to the Girl
with the words:

“Regards of Blonde Harry.”

Again Sonora experienced a feeling akin to jealousy at what he termed Blonde
Harry’s impudence. It almost immediately gave way to a paroxysm of chuckling;
for, the Girl, quickly taking the glass from Nick’s hand, flung its contents
into a nearby receptacle. “There--tell ’im that it hit the spot!” She laughed.
Nick roared with the others, but on the threshold of the dance-hall he paused,
hesitated, and finally came back, and advised in a low tone:

“Throw around a few kind words, Girl--good for the bar.”

The Girl surveyed the barkeeper with playful disapproval in her eye. However
advantageous might be his method of working up trade, she disdained to follow
his advice, and her laughing answer was:

“Oh, you Nick!”

The peal of laughter that rung in Nick’s ears as he disappeared through the
door, awakened Ashby and brought him instantly to his feet. Despite his size, he
was remarkably quick in his movements, and in no time at all he was standing
before the bar with a glass, which he had filled from the bottle that had stood
in front of him on the table, and was saying:

“Compliments of Wells Fargo.”

“Thank you,” returned the Girl; and then while she shook the prairie oyster:
“You see we live high-shouldered here.”

“That’s what!” put in Sonora with a broad grin. “What cigars have you?” asked
Ashby, at the conclusion of his round of drinks. “Regalias, Auroas and Eurekas,”
reeled off the Girl with her eye upon Billy Jackrabbit, who had quietly come in
and was sneaking about in an endeavour to find something worth pilfering. “Oh,
any will do,” Ashby told her, with a smile; and while he was helping himself
from a box of Regalias, Nick suddenly appeared, calling out excitedly:

“Man jest come in threatenin’ to shoot up the furniture!”

“Who is it?” calmly inquired the Girl, returning the cigar-box to its place on
the shelf. “Old man Watson!”

“Leave ’im shoot,--he’s good for it!”

“Nick! Nick!” yelled several voices in the dance-hall where old man Watson was
surely having the time of his life. And still the Girl paid not the slightest
attention to the shooting or the cries of the men; what did concern her,
however, was the fact that the Indian was drinking up the dregs in the whisky
glasses on the faro table. “Here, you, Billy Jackrabbit! What are you doin’
here?” she exclaimed sharply, causing that generally imperturbable redskin to
start perceptibly. “Did you marry my squaw yet?”

Billy Jackrabbit’s face wore as stolid an expression as ever, when he answered:

“Not so much married squaw--yet.”

“Not so much married....” repeated the Girl when the merriment, which his words
provoked, had subsided. “Come ’ere, you thievin’ redskin!” And when he had slid
up to the bar, and she had extracted from his pockets a number of cigars which
she knew had been pilfered, she added: “You git up to my cabin an’ marry my
squaw before I git there.” And at another emphatic “Git!” the Indian, much to
the amusement of all, started for the Girl’s cabin. “Here--here’s your prairie
oyster, Sonora,” at last said the Girl; and then turning to the Sheriff and
speaking to him for the first time, she called out gaily: “Hello, Rance!”

“Hello, Girl!” replied the Gambler without even a glance at her or ceasing to
shuffle the cards. Presently, Sonora pulled out a bag of gold-dust and told the
Girl to clear the slate out of it. She was in the act of taking the sack when
Nick, rushing into the room and jerking his thumb over his shoulder, said:

“Say, Girl, there’s a fellow in there wants to know if we can help out on
provisions.”

“Sure; what does he want?” returned the Girl with a show of willingness to
accommodate him. “Bread.”

“Bread? Does he think we’re runnin’ a bakery?”

“Then he asked for sardines.”

“Sardines? Great Gilead! You tell ’im we have nothin’ but straight provisions
here. We got pickled oysters, smokin’ tobacco an’ the best whisky he ever saw,”
rapped out the Girl, proudly, and turned her attention to the slate. “You bet!”
vouched Trinidad with a nod, as Nick departed on his errand. Finally, the Girl,
having made her calculations, opened the counter drawer and brought forth some
silver Mexican dollars, saying:

“Sonora, an’ Mr. Ashby, your change!”

Ashby picked up his money, only to throw it instantly back on the bar, and say
gallantly:

“Keep the change--buy a ribbon at The Ridge--compliments of Wells Fargo.”

“Thank you,” smiled the Girl, sweeping the money into the drawer, but her manner
showed plainly that it was not an unusual thing for the patrons of The Polka to
refuse to accept the change. Not to be outdone, Sonora quickly arose and went
over to the counter where, pointing to his stack of silver dollars, he said:

“Girl, buy two ribbons at The Ridge;” and then with a significant glance towards
Ashby, he added: “Fawn’s my colour.”

And again, as before, the voice that said, “Thank you,” was colourless, while
her eyes rested upon the ubiquitous Nick, who had entered with an armful of wood
and was intent upon making the room warmer. Rance snorted disapprovingly at
Sonora’s prodigality. That he considered that both his and Ashby’s attentions to
the Girl had gone far enough was made apparent by the severe manner in which he
envisaged them and drawled out:

“Play cyards?”

But to that gentleman’s surprise the men did not move. Instead, Ashby raising a
warning finger to the Girl, went on to advise that she should bank with them
oftener, concluding with:

“And then if this road agent Ramerrez should drop in, you won’t lose so much--”

“The devil you say!” cut in Sonora; while Trinidad broke out into a scornful
laugh. “Oh, go on, Mr. Ashby!” smilingly scoffed the Girl. “I keep the specie in
an empty keg now. But I’ve took to bankin’ personally in my stockin’,” she
confided without the slightest trace of embarrassment. “But say, we’ve got an
awful pile this month,” observed Nick, anxiously, leaving the fireplace and
joining the little ring of men about her. “It makes me sort o’ nervous--why,
Sonora’s got ten thousand alone fer safe keepin’ in that keg an’--”

“--Ramerrez’ band’s everywhere,” completed Ashby with a start, his quick and
trained ear having caught the sound of horses’ hoofs. “But if a road agent did
come here, I could offer ’im a drink an’ he’d treat me like a perfect lady,”
contended the Girl, confidently. “You bet he would, the durned old halibut!” was
Sonora’s comment, while Nick took occasion to ask the Girl for some tobacco.
“Solace or Honeydew?” she inquired, her hands already on the assortment of
tobacco underneath the bar. “Dew,” was Nick’s laconic answer. And then it was
that the Girl heard for the first time the sound of the galloping hoofs;
startled for the moment, she inquired somewhat uneasily:

“Who’s this, I wonder?”

But no sooner were the words spoken than a voice outside in the darkness sung
out sharply:

“Hello!”

“Hello!” instantly returned another voice, which the Girl recognised at once as
being that of the Deputy. “Big holdup last night at The Forks!” the first voice
was now saying. “Holdup!” repeated several voices outside in tones of
excitement. “Ramerrez--” went on the first voice, at which ominous word all,
including Ashby, began to exchange significant glances as they echoed:

“Ramerrez!”

The name had barely died on their lips, however, than Nick precipitated himself
into their midst and announced that The Pony Express had arrived, handing up to
the Girl, at the same time, a bundle of letters and one paper. “You see!”
maintained Ashby, stoutly, as he watched her sort the letters; “I was right when
I told you....”

“Look sharp! There’s a greaser on the trail!” rang out warningly the voice of
The Pony Express. “A greaser!” exclaimed Rance, for the first time showing any
interest in the proceedings; and then without looking up and after the manner of
a man speaking to a good dog, he told the Deputy, who had followed Nick into the
room:

“Find him, Dep.”

For some time the Girl occupied herself with cashing in the chips which Nick
brought to her--a task which she performed with amazing correctness and speed
considering that her knowledge of the science of mathematics had been derived
solely from the handling of money at The Polka. Now she went over to Sonora, who
sat at a table reading. “You got the newspaper, I see,” she observed. “But you,
Trin, I’m sorry you ain’t got nothin’,” she added, with a sad, little smile. “So
long!” hollered The Pony Express at that moment; whereupon, Ashby rushed over to
the door and called after him:

“Pony Express, I want you!” Satisfied that his command had been heard he
retraced his footsteps and found Handsome peering eagerly over Sonora’s
shoulder. “So, Sonora, you’ve got a newspaper,” Handsome was saying. “Yes, but
the infernal thing’s two months old,” returned the other disgustedly. Handsome
laughed, and wheeling round was just in time to see the door flung open and a
young fellow advance towards Ashby. The Pony Express was a young man of not more
than twenty years of age. He was smooth-faced and unshaven and, needless to say,
was light of build, for these riders were selected for their weight as well as
for their nerve. He wore a sombrero, a buckskin hunting-shirt, tight trousers
tucked into high boots with spurs, all of which were weather-beaten and faded by
wind, rain, dust and alkali. A pair of Colt revolvers could be seen in his
holsters, and he carried in his hands, which were covered with heavy gloves, a
mail pouch--it being the company’s orders not to let his _muchilo_ of heavy
leather out of his hands for a second. “You drop mail at the greaser
settlement?” inquired Ashby in his peremptory and incisive manner. “Yes, sir,”
quickly responded the young man; and then volunteered: “It’s a tough place.”

Ashby scrutinised the newcomer closely before going on with:

“Know a girl there named Nina Micheltoreña?”

But before The Pony Express had time to reply the Girl interposed scornfully:

“Nina Micheltoreña? Why, they all know ’er! She’s one o’ them Cachuca girls with
droopy, Spanish eyes! Oh, ask the boys about ’er!” And with that she started to
leave the room, stopping on her way to clap both Trinidad and Sonora playfully
on the back. “Yes, ask the boys about ’er, they’ll tell you!” And so saying she
fled from the room, followed by the men she was poking fun at. “Hold her
letters, you understand?” instructed Ashby who, with the Sheriff, was alone now
with The Pony Express. “Yes, sir,” he replied earnestly. A moment later there
being no further orders forthcoming he hastily took his leave. Ashby now turned
his attention to Rance. “Sheriff,” said he, “to-night I expect to see this Nina
Micheltoreña either here or at The Palmetto.”

Rance never raised an eyebrow. “You do?” he remarked a moment later with studied
carelessness. “Well, the boys had better look to their watches. I met that lady
once.”

Ashby shot him a look of inquiry. “She’s looking to that five thousand reward
for Ramerrez,” he told him. Rance’s interest was growing by leaps and bounds
though he continued to riffle the cards. “What? She’s after that?”

“Sure thing. She knows something....” And having delivered himself of this Ashby
strode over to the opposite side of the room where his coat and hat were hanging
upon an elk horn. While putting them on he came face to face with the Girl who,
having merely glanced in at the dance-hall, was returning to take up her duties
behind the bar. “Well, I’ll have a look at that greaser up the road,” he said,
addressing her, and then went on half-jocularly, half-seriously: “He may have
his eye on the find in that stocking.”

“You be darned!” was the Girl’s parting shot at him as he went out into the
night. There was a long and impressive pause in which, apparently, the Sheriff
was making up his mind to speak of matters scarcely incident to the situation
that had gone before; while fully conscious that she was to be asked to give him
an answer--she whose answer had been given many times--the Girl stood at the bar
in an attitude of amused expectancy, and fussing with things there. At length,
Rance, glancing shyly over his shoulder to make sure that they were alone,
became all at once grave and his voice fell soft and almost caressingly. “Say,
Girl!”

The young woman addressed stole a look at him from under her lashes, all the
while smiling a wise, little smile to herself, but not a word did she vouchsafe
in reply. Again Rance called to her over his shoulder:

“I say, Girl!”

The Girl took up a glass and began to polish it. At last she deigned to favour
him with “Hm?” which, apparently, he did not hear, for again a silence fell upon
them. Finally, unable to bear the suspense any longer, the Sheriff threw down
his cards on the table, and facing her he said:

“Say, Girl, will you marry me?”

“Nope,” returned the Girl with a saucy toss of the head. Rance rose and strode
over to the bar. Looking fixedly at her with his steely grey eyes he demanded
the reason. “’Cause you got a wife in Noo Orleans--or so the mountain breezes
say,” was her ready answer. Rance gave no sign of having heard her. Throwing
away the cigar he was smoking he asked in the most nonchalant manner:

“Give me some of them cigars--my kind.”

Reaching for a box behind her the Girl placed it before him. “Them’s your kind,
Jack.”

From an inside pocket of his broadcloth coat Rance took out an elaborate cigar-
case, filled it slowly, leaving out one cigar which he placed between his lips.
When he had this one going satisfactorily he rested both elbows on the edge of
the bar, and said bluntly:

“I’m stuck on you.”

The Girl’s lips parted a little mockingly. “Thank you.”

Rance puffed away for a moment or two in silence, and then with sudden
determination he went on:

“I’m going to marry you.”

“Think so?” questioned the Girl, drawing herself up proudly. And while Rance
proceeded to relight his cigar, it having gone out, she plumped both elbows on
the bar and looked him straight in the eye, and announced: “They ain’t a man
here goin’ to marry me.”

The scene had precisely the appearance of a struggle between two powerful wills.
How long they would have remained with elbows almost touching and looking into
each other’s eyes it is difficult to determine; but an interruption came in the
person of the barkeeper, who darted in, calling: “One good cigar!”

Instantly the Girl reached behind her for the box containing the choicest
cigars, and handing one to Nick, she said:

“Here’s your poison--three bits. Why look at ’em,” she went on in the next
breath to Rance; “there’s Handsome with two wives I know of somewhere East.
And--” She broke off short and ended with: “Nick, who’s that cigar for?”

“Tommy,” he told her. “Here, give that back!” she cried quickly putting out her
hand for it. “Tommy don’t know a good cigar when he’s smokin’ it.” And so saying
she put the choice cigar back in its place among its fellows and handed him one
from another box with the remark: “Same price, Nick.”

Nick chuckled and went out. “An’ look at Trin with a widow in Sacramento. An’
you--” The Girl broke off short and laughed in his face. “Oh, not one o’ you
travellin’ under your own name!”

“One whisky!” ordered Nick, coming into the room with a rush. Without a word the
Girl took down a bottle and poured it out for him while he stood quietly looking
on, grinning from ear to ear. For Rance’s weakness was known to him as it was to
every other man in Manzaneta County, and he believed that the Sheriff had taken
advantage of his absence to press his hopeless suit. “Here you be!” sang out the
Girl, and passed the glass over to him. “He wants it with water,” returned Nick,
with a snicker. With a contemptuous gesture the Girl put the bottle back on the
shelf. “No--no you don’t; no fancy drinks here!” she objected. “But he says he
won’t take it without water,” protested Nick, though there was a twinkle in his
eye. “He’s a fellow that’s jest rode in from The Crossin’, so he says.”

The Girl folded her arms and declared in a tone of finality:

“He’ll take it straight or git.”

“But he won’t git,” contended Nick chuckling. There was an ominous silence. Such
behaviour was without a parallel in the annals of Cloudy. For much less than
this, as the little barkeeper very well knew, many a man had been disciplined by
the Girl. So, with his eyes fixed upon her face, he was already revelling in the
situation by way of anticipation, and rejoicing in the coming requital for his
own rebuff when the stranger had declined to leave as ordered. It was merely a
question of his waiting for the words which would, as he put it, “take the
fellow down a peg.” They were soon forthcoming. “You jest send ’im to me,”
commanded the Girl. “I’ll curl his hair for him!”

Nick’s face showed that the message was to his liking. It was evident, also,
that he meant to lose no time in delivering it. A moment after he disappeared,
Rance, who had been toying with a twenty dollar gold piece which he took from
his pocket, turned to the Girl and said with great earnestness:

“Girl, I’ll give you a thousand dollars on the spot for a kiss,” which offer met
with no response other than a nervous little laugh and the words:

“Some men invite bein’ played.”

The gambler shrugged his shoulders. “Well, what are men made for?” said he,
flinging the gold piece down on the bar in payment for the cigar. “That’s true,”
placidly commented the Girl, making the change. Rance tried another tack. “You
can’t keep on running this place alone; it’s getting too big for you; too much
money circulating through The Polka. You need a man behind you.” All this was
said in short, jerky sentences; moreover, when she placed his change in front of
him he pushed it back almost angrily. “Come now, marry me,” again he pleaded.
“Nope.”

“My wife won’t know it.”

“Nope.”

“Now, see here, there’s just one--”

“Nope--take it straight, Jack, nope....” interrupted the Girl. She had made up
her mind that he had gone far enough; and firmly grabbing his hand she slipped
his change into it. Without a word the Sheriff dropped the coins into the
cuspidor. The Girl saw the action and her eyes flashed with anger. The next
moment, however, she looked up at him and said more gently than any time yet:

“No, Jack, I can’t marry you. Ah, come along--start your game again--go on,
Jack.” And so saying she came out from behind the bar and went over to the faro
table with: “Whoop la! Mula! Go! Good Lord, look at that faro table!”

But Rance was on the verge of losing control of himself. There was passion in
his steely grey eyes when he advanced towards her, but although the Girl saw the
look she did not flinch, and met it in a clear, straight glance. “Look here,
Jack Rance,” she said, “let’s have it out right now. I run The Polka ’cause I
like it. My father taught me the business an’, well, don’t you worry ’bout me--I
can look after m’self. I carry my little wepping”--and with that she touched
significantly the little pocket of her dress. “I’m independent, I’m happy, The
Polka’s payin’, an’ it’s bully!” she wound up, laughing. Then, with one of her
quick changes of mood, she turned upon him angrily and demanded: “Say, what the
devil do you mean by proposin’ to me with a wife in Noo Orleans? Now, this is a
respectable saloon, an’ I don’t want no more of it.”

A look of gloom came into Rance’s eyes. “I didn’t say anything--” he began.
“Push me that Queen,” interrupted the Girl, sharply, gathering up the cards at
the faro table, and pointing to one that was just beyond her reach. But when
Rance handed it to her and was moving silently away, she added: “Ah, no offence,
Jack, but I got other idees o’ married life from what you have.”

“Aw, nonsense!” came from the Sheriff in a voice that was not free from
irritation. The Girl glanced up at him quickly. Her mind was not the abode of
hardened convictions, but was tender to sentiment, and something in his manner
at once softening her, she said:

“Nonsense? I dunno ’bout that. You see--” and her eyes took on a far away
look--“I had a home once an’ I ain’t forgot it--a home up over our little saloon
down in Soledad. I ain’t forgot my father an’ my mother an’ what a happy kepple
they were. Lord, how they loved each other--it was beautiful!”

Despite his seemingly callous exterior, there was a soft spot in the gambler’s
heart. Every word that the Girl uttered had its effect on him. Now his hands,
which had been clenched, opened out and a new light came into his eyes.
Suddenly, however, it was replaced by one of anger, for the door, at that
moment, was hesitatingly pushed open, and The Sidney Duck stood with his hand on
the knob, snivelling:

“Oh, Miss, I--”

The Girl fairly flew over to him. “Say, I’ve heard about you! You git!” she
cried; and when she was certain that he was gone she came back and took a seat
at the table where she continued, in the same reminiscent vein as before: “I can
see mother now fussin’ over father an’ pettin’ ’im, an’ father dealin’ faro--Ah,
he was square! An’ me a kid, as little as a kitten, under the table sneakin’
chips for candy. Talk ’bout married life--that was a little heaven! Why, mother
tho’t so much o’ that man, she was so much heart an’ soul with ’im that she
learned to be the best case-keeper you ever saw. Many a sleeper she caught! You
see, when she played, she was playin’ for the ol’ man.” She stopped as if
overcome with emotion, and then added with great feeling: “I guess everybody’s
got some remembrance o’ their mother tucked away. I always see mine at the faro
table with her foot snuggled up to Dad’s, an’ the light o’ lovin’ in her eyes.
Ah, she was a lady...!” Impulsively she rose and walked over to the bar. “No,”
she went on, when behind it once more, “I couldn’t share that table an’ The
Polka with any man--unless there was a heap o’ carin’ back of it. No, I
couldn’t, Jack, I couldn’t....”

By this time the Sheriff’s anger had completely vanished; dejection was plainly
written on every line of his face. “Well, I guess the boys were right; I am a
Chinaman,” he drawled out. At once the Girl was all sympathy. “Oh, no you’re
not, Jack!” she protested, speaking as tenderly as she dared without encouraging
him. Rance was quick to detect the change in her voice. Now he leaned over the
end of the bar and said in tones that still held hope:

“Once when I rode in here it was nothing but Jack, Jack, Jack Rance. By the
Eternal, I nearly got you then!”

“Did you?” The Girl was her saucy self again. Rance ignored her manner, and went
on:

“Then you went on that trip to Sacramento and Monterey and you were different.”

In spite of herself the Girl started, which Rance’s quick eye did not fail to
note. “Who’s the man?” he blazed. For answer the Girl burst out into a peal of
laughter. It was forced, and the man knew it. “I suppose he’s one o’ them high-
toned, Sacramento shrimps!” he burst out gruffly; then he added meaningly: “Do
you think he’d have you?”

At those words a wondering look shone in the Girl’s eyes, and she asked in all
seriousness:

“What’s the matter with me? Is there anythin’ ’bout me a high-toned gent would
object to?” And then as the full force of the insult was borne in upon her she
stepped out from behind the bar, and demanded: “Look here, Jack Rance, ain’t I
always been a perfect lady?”

Rance laughed discordantly. “Oh, heaven knows your character’s all right!” And
so saying he seated himself again at the table. The girl flared up still more at
this; she retorted:

“Well, that ain’t your fault, Jack Rance!” But the words were hardly out of her
mouth than she regretted having spoken them. She waited a moment, and then as he
did not speak she murmured an “Adios, Jack,” and took up her position behind the
bar where, if Rance had been looking, he would have seen her start on hearing a
voice in the next room and fix her eyes in a sort of fascinated wonder, on a man
who, after parting the pelt curtain, came into the saloon with just a suggestion
of swagger in his bearing. VII

“Where’s the man who wanted to curl my hair?”

Incisive and harsh, with scarcely a trace of the musical tones she recollected
so well, as was Johnson’s voice, it deceived the Girl not an instant. Even
before she was able to get a glimpse of his face it did not fail to tell her
that the handsome _caballero_, with whom she had ridden on that never-to-be-
forgotten day on the Monterey road, was standing before her. That his attire
now, as might be expected, was wholly different from what it had been then, it
never occurred to her to note; for, to tell the truth, she was vainly struggling
to suppress the joy that she felt at seeing him again, and before she was aware
of it there slipped through her lips:

“Why, howdy do, stranger!”

At the sound of her voice Johnson wheeled round in glad surprise and amazement;
but the quick look of recognition that he flashed upon her wholly escaped the
Sheriff whose attitude was indicative of keen resentment at this intrusion, and
whose eyes were taking in the newcomer from head to foot. “We’re not much on
strangers here,” he blurted out at last. Johnson turned on his heel and faced
the speaker. An angry retort rose to his lips, but he checked it. Although,
perhaps, not fully appreciating his action, he was, nevertheless, not unaware
that, from the point of view of the Polka, his refusal to take his whisky
straight might be regarded as nothing less than an insult. And now that it was
too late he was inclined, however much he resented an attempt to interfere in a
matter which he believed concerned himself solely, to regret the provocation and
challenging words of his entrance if only because of a realisation that a
quarrel would be likely to upset his plans. On the other hand, with every
fraction of a second that passed he was conscious of becoming more and more
desirous of humbling the man standing before him and scrutinising him so
insolently; moreover, he felt intuitively that the eyes of the Girl were on him
as well as on the other principal to this silent but no less ominous conflict
going on, and such being the case it was obviously impossible for him to
withdraw from the position he had taken. As a sort of compromise, therefore, he
said, tentatively:

“I’m the man who wanted water in his whisky.”

“You!” exclaimed the Girl; and then added reprovingly: “Oh, Nick, this gentleman
takes his whisky as he likes it!”

And this from the Girl! The little barkeeper had all the appearance of a man who
thought the world was coming to an end. He did not accept the Girl’s ultimatum
until he had drawn down his face into an expression of mock solemnity and
ejaculated half-aloud:

“Moses, what’s come over ’er!”

Johnson took a few steps nearer the Girl and bowed low. “In the presence of a
lady I will take nothing,” he said impressively. “But pardon me, you seem to be
almost at home here.”

The girl leaned her elbows on the bar and her chin in her hands, and answered
with a tantalising little laugh:

“Who--me?”

After a loud guffaw Nick took it upon himself to explain matters; turning to
Johnson he said:

“Why, she’s the Girl who runs The Polka!”

Johnson’s face wore a look of puzzled consternation; he saw no reason for
levity. “You...?”

“Yep,” nodded the Girl with a merry twinkle in her eyes. Johnson’s face fell.
“She runs The Polka,” he murmured to himself. Of all places to have chosen--
this! So the thing he had dreaded had happened! For odd as it unquestionably
seemed to him that she should turn up as the proprietress of a saloon after
months of searching high and low for her, it was not this reflection that was
uppermost in his mind; on the contrary, it was the deeply humiliating thought
that he had come upon her when about to ply his vocation. Regret came swiftly
that he had not thought to inquire who was the owner of The Polka Saloon.
Bitterly he cursed himself for his dense stupidity. And yet, it was doubtful
whether any of his band could have informed him. All that they knew of the place
was that the miners of Cloudy Mountain Camp were said to keep a large amount of
placer gold there; all that he had done was to acquaint himself with the best
means of getting it. But his ruminations were soon dissipated by Rance, who had
come so close that their feet almost touched, and was speaking in a voice that
showed the quarrelsome frame of mind that he was in. “You’re from The Crossing,
the barkeeper said--” he began, and then added pointedly: “I don’t remember
you.”

Johnson slowly turned from the Girl to the speaker and calmly corrected:

“You’re mistaken; I said I rode over from The Crossing.” And turning his back on
the man he faced the Girl with: “So, you run The Polka?”

“I’m the Girl--the girl that runs The Polka,” she said, and to his astonishment
seemed to glory in her occupation. Presently, much to their delight, an
opportunity came to them to exchange a word or two with each other without
interruption. For, Rance, as if revolving some plan of action in his mind, had
turned on his heel and walked off a little way. A moment more, however, and he
was back again and more malevolently aggressive than ever. “No strangers are
allowed in this camp,” he said, glowering at Johnson; and then, his remark
having passed unheeded by the other, he sneered: “Perhaps you’re off the road;
men often get mixed up when they’re visiting Nina Micheltoreña on the back
trail.”

“Oh, Rance!” protested the Girl. But Johnson, though angered, let the
insinuation pass unnoticed, and went on to say that he had stopped in to rest
his horse and, perhaps, if invited, try his luck at a game of cards. And with
this intimation he crossed over to the poker table where he picked up the deck
that Rance had been using. Rance hesitated, and finally followed up the stranger
until he brought up face to face with him. “You want a game, eh?” he drawled,
coolly impudent. “I haven’t heard your name, young man.”

“Name,” echoed the Girl with a cynical laugh. “Oh, names out here--”

“My name’s Johnson--” spoke up the man, throwing down the cards on the table.
“Is what?” laughed the Girl, saucily, and, apparently, trying to relieve the
strained situation by her bantering tone. “--Of Sacramento,” he finished easily.
“Of Sacramento,” repeated the Girl in the same jesting manner as before; then,
quickly coming out from behind the bar, she went over to him and put out her
hand, saying:

“I admire to know you, Mr. Johnson o’ Sacramento.”

Johnson bowed low over her hand. “Thank you,” he said simply. “Say, Girl, I--”
began Rance, fuming at her behaviour. “Oh, sit down, Rance!” The interruption
came from the Girl as she pushed him lightly out of her way; then, perching
herself up on one end of the faro table, at which Johnson had taken a seat, she
ventured:

“Say, Mr. Johnson, do you know what I think o’ you?”

Johnson eyed her uncertainly, while Rance’s eyes blazed as she blurted out:

“Well, I think you staked out a claim in a etiquette book.” And then before
Johnson could answer her, she went on to say: “So you think you can play poker?”

“That’s my conviction,” Johnson told her, smilingly. “Out o’ every fifty men who
think they can play poker one ain’t mistaken,” was the Girl’s caustic
observation. The next instant, however, she jumped down from the table and was
back at her post, where, fearful lest he should think her wanting in
hospitality, she proposed: “Try a cigar, Mr. Johnson?”

“Thank you,” he said, rising, and following her to the bar. “Best in the house--
my compliments.”

“You’re very kind,” said Johnson, taking the candle that she had lighted for
him; then, when his cigar was going, and in a voice that was intended for her
alone, he went on: “So you remember me?”

“If you remember me,” returned the Girl, likewise in a low tone. “What the devil
are they talking about anyway?” muttered Rance to himself as he stole a glance
at them over his shoulder, though he kept on shuffling the cards. “I met you on
the road to Monterey,” said Johnson with a smile. “Yes, comin’ an’ goin’,”
smiled back the Girl. “You passed me a bunch o’ wild syringa over the wheel; you
also asked me to go a-berryin’--” and here she paused long enough to glance up
at him coquettishly before adding: “But I didn’t see it Mr. Johnson.”

“I noticed that,” observed Johnson, laughing. “An’ when you went away you
said--” The Girl broke off abruptly and replaced the candle on the bar; then
with a shy, embarrassed look on her face she ended with: “Oh, I dunno.”

“Yes, you do, yes, you do,” maintained Johnson. “I said I’ll think of you all
the time--well, I’ve thought of you ever since.”

There was a moment of embarrassment. Then:

“Somehow I kind o’ tho’t you might drop in,” she said with averted eyes. “But as
you didn’t--” She paused and summoned to her face a look which she believed
would adequately reflect a knowledge of the proprieties. “O’ course,” she
tittered out, “it wa’n’t my place to remember you--first.”

“But I didn’t know where you lived--you never told me, you know,” contended the
road agent, which contention so satisfied the Girl--for she remembered only too
well that she had not told him--that she determined to show him further
evidences of her regard. “Say, I got a special bottle here--best in the house.
Will you...?”

“Why--”

The girl did not wait for him to finish his sentence, but quickly placed a
bottle and glass before him. “My compliments,” she whispered, smiling. “You’re
very kind--thanks,” returned the road agent, and proceeded to pour out a drink.
Meanwhile, little of what was taking place had been lost on Jack Rance. As the
whispered conversation continued, he grew more and more jealous, and at the
moment that Johnson was on the point of putting the glass to his lips, Rance,
rising quickly, went over to him and deliberately knocked the glass out of his
hand. With a crash it fell to the floor. “Look here, Mr. Johnson, your ways are
offensive to me!” he cried; “damned offensive! My name is Rance--Jack Rance.
Your business here--your business?” And without waiting for the other’s reply he
called out huskily: “Boys! Boys! Come in here!”

At this sudden and unexpected summons in the Sheriff’s well-known voice there
was a rush from the dance-hall; in an instant the good-natured, roistering
crowd, nosing a fight, crowded to the bar, where the two men stood glaring at
each other in suppressed excitement. “Boys,” declared the Sheriff, his eye never
leaving Johnson’s face, “there’s a man here who won’t explain his business. He
won’t tell--”

“Won’t he?” cut in Sonora, blusteringly. “Well, we’ll see--we’ll make ’im!”

There was a howl of execration from the bar. [Illustration: “Boys, I vouch to
Cloudy for Mr. Johnson”]

It moved the Girl to instant action. Quick as thought she turned and strode to
where the cries were the most menacing--towards the boys who knew her best and
ever obeyed her unquestioningly. “Wait a minute!” she cried, holding up her hand
authoritatively. “I know the gent!”

The men exchanged incredulous glances; from all sides came the explosive cries:

“What’s that? You know him?”

“Yes,” she affirmed dramatically; and turning now to Rance with a swift change
of manner, she confessed: “I didn’t tell you--but I know ’im.”

The Sheriff started as if struck. “The Sacramento shrimp by all that is holy!”
he muttered between his teeth as the truth slowly dawned upon him. “Yes, boys,
this is Mr. Johnson o’ Sacramento,” announced the Girl with a simple and
unconscious dignity that did not fail to impress all present. “I vouch to Cloudy
for Mr. Johnson!”

Consternation! And then the situation vaguely dawning upon them there ensued an
outburst of cheering compared to which the previous howl of execration was
silence. Johnson smiled pleasantly at the Girl in acknowledgment of her
confirmation of him, then shot a half-curious, half-amused look at the crowd
surrounding him and regarding him with a new interest. Apparently what he saw
was to his liking, for his manner was most friendly when bowing politely, he
said:

“How are you, boys?”

At once the miners returned his salutation in true western fashion: every man in
the place, save Rance, taking off his hat and sweeping it before him in an arc
as they cried out in chorus:

“Hello, Johnson!”

“Boys, Rance ain’t a-runnin’ The Polka yet!” observed Sonora with a mocking
smile on his lips, and gloating over the opportunity to give the Sheriff a dig.
The men shouted their approval of this jibe. Indeed, they might have gone just a
little too far with their badgering of the Sheriff, considering the mood that he
was in; so, perhaps, it was fortunate that Nick should break in upon them at
this time with:

“Gents, the boys from The Ridge invites you to dance with them.”

No great amount of enthusiasm was evinced at this. Nevertheless, it was a
distinct declaration of peace; and, taking advantage of it, Johnson advanced
toward the Girl, bowed low, and asked with elaborate formality:

“May I have the honour of a waltz?”

Flabbergasted and awed to silence by what they termed Johnson’s “style,” Happy
and Handsome stood staring helplessly at one another; at length Happy broke out
with:

“Say, Handsome, ain’t he got a purty action? An’ ornamental sort o’ cuss, ain’t
he? But say, kind o’ presumin’ like, ain’t it, for a fellow breathin’ the
obscurity o’ The Crossin’ to learn gents like us how to ketch the ladies
pronto?”

“Which same,” allowed Handsome, “shorely’s a most painful, not to say
humiliatin’ state o’ things.” And then to the Girl he whispered: “It’s up to you
--make a holy show of ’im.”

The Girl laughed. “Me waltz? Me?” she cried, answering Johnson at last. “Oh, I
can’t waltz but I can polky.”

Once more Johnson bent his tall figure to the ground, and said:

“Then may I have the pleasure of the next polka?”

By this time Sonora had recovered from his astonishment. After giving vent to a
grunt expressive of his contempt, he blurted out:

“That fellow’s too flip!”

But the idea had taken hold of the Girl, though she temporised shyly:

“Oh, I dunno! Makes me feel kind o’ foolish, you know, kind o’ retirin’ like a
elk in summer.”

Johnson smiled in spite of himself. “Elks are retiring,” was his comment as he
again advanced and offered his arm in an impressive and ceremonious manner.
“Well, I don’t like everybody’s hand on the back o’ my waist,” said the Girl,
running her hands up and down her dress skirt. “But, somehow--” She stopped, and
fixing her eyes recklessly on Rance, made a movement as if about to accept; but
another look at Johnson’s preferred arm so embarrassed her that she sent a look
of appeal to the rough fellows, who stood watching her with grinning faces. “Oh,
Lord, must I?” she asked; then, hanging back no longer, she suddenly flung
herself into his arms with the cry: “Oh, come along!”

Promptly Johnson put his arm around the Girl’s waist, and breaking into a polka
he swung her off to the dance-hall where their appearance was greeted with a
succession of wild whoops from the men there, as well as from the hilarious
boys, who had rushed pell-mell after them. Left to himself and in a rage Rance
began to pace the floor. “Cleaned out--cleaned out for fair by a high-toned,
fine-haired dog named Johnson! Well, I’ll be--” The sentence was never finished,
his attention being caught and held by something which Nick was carrying in from
the dance-hall. “What’s that?” he demanded brusquely. Nick’s eyes were twinkling
when he answered:

“Johnson’s saddle.”

Rance could control himself no longer; with a sweep of his long arm he knocked
the saddle out of the other’s hand, saying:

“Nick, I’ve a great notion to walk out of this door and never step my foot in
here again.”

Nick did not answer at once. While he did not especially care for Rance he did
not propose to let his patronage, which was not inconsiderable, go elsewhere
without making an effort to hold it. Therefore, he thought a moment before
picking up the saddle and placing it in the corner of the room. “Aw, what you
givin’ us, Rance! She’s only a-kiddin’ ’im,” at last he said consolingly. The
Sheriff was about to question this when a loud cry from outside arrested him.
“What’s that?” he asked with his eyes upon the door. “Why that’s--that’s Ashby’s
voice,” the barkeeper informed him; and going to the door, followed by Rance, as
well as the men who, on hearing the cry, had rushed in from the dance-hall, he
opened it, and they heard again the voice that they all recognised now as that
of the Wells Fargo Agent. “Come on!” he was saying gruffly. “What the deuce is
up?” inquired Trinidad simultaneously with the Deputy’s cry of “Bring him in!”
And almost instantly the Deputy, followed by Ashby and others, entered, dragging
along with him the unfortunate Jose Castro. The rough handling that he had
received had not improved his appearance. His clothing, half Mexican, the rest
of odds and ends, had been torn in several places. He looked oily, greasy and
unwashed, while the eyes that looked around in affright had lost none of their
habitual trickiness and sullenness. And precisely as Castro appeared wholly
different than when last seen in the company of his master, so, too, was Ashby
metarmorphosed. His hat was on the back of his head; his coat looked as if he
had been engaged in some kind of a struggle; his hair was ruffled and long locks
straggled down over his forehead; while his face wore a brutal, savage,
pitiless, nasty look. By this time all the regular habitués of the saloon had
come in and were crowding around the greaser with scowling, angry faces. “The
greaser on the trail!” gurgled Ashby in his glass, having left his prisoner for
a moment to fortify himself with a drink of whisky. Whereupon, the Sheriff
advanced and, with rough hands, jerked the prisoner’s head brutally. “Here you,”
he said, “give us a look at your face.”

But the Sheriff had never seen him before. And in obedience to his commands to
“Tie him up!” the Deputy and Billy Jackrabbit took a lariat from the wall and
proceeded to bind their prisoner fast. When this was done Ashby called to Nick
to serve him another drink, adding:

“Come on, boys!”

Instantly there was an exclamatory lining up at the bar, only Sonora,
apparently, seeming disinclined to accept, which Ashby was quick to note.
Turning to him quickly, he inquired:

“Say, my friend, don’t you drink?”

But no insult had been intended by Sonora’s omission; it was merely most
inconsiderate on his part of the feelings of others; and, therefore, there was a
note of apology in the voice that presently said:

“Oh, yes, Mr. Ashby, I’m with you all right.”

During this conversation the eyes of the greaser had been wandering all over the
room. But as the men moved away from him to take their drinks he started
violently and an expression of dismay crossed his features. “Ramerrez’ saddle!”
he muttered to himself. “The _Maestro_--he is taken!”

Just then there came a particularly loud burst of approval from the spectators
of the dancing going on in the adjoining room, and instinctively the men at the
bar half-turned towards the noise. The prisoner’s eyes followed their gaze and a
fiendish grin replaced the look of dismay on his face. “No, he is there dancing
with a girl,” he said under his breath. A moment later Nick let down the bear-
skin curtain, shutting off completely the Mexican’s view of the dance-hall.
“Come, now, tell us what your name is?” The voice was Ashby’s who, together with
the others, now surrounded the prisoner. “Speak up--who are you?”

“My name ees Jose Castro;” and then he added with a show of pride: “_Ex-padrona_
of the bull-fights.”

“But the bull-fights are at Monterey! Why do you come to this place?”

All eyes instantly turned from the prisoner to Rance, who had asked the question
while seated at the table, and from him they returned to the prisoner, most of
the men giving vent to exclamations of anger in tones that made the greaser
squirm, while Trinidad expressed the prevailing admiration of the Sheriff’s
poser by crying out:

“That’s the talk--you bet! Why do you come here?”

Castro’s face wore an air of candour as he replied:

“To tell the Señor Sheriff I know where ees Ramerrez.”

Rance turned on the prisoner a grim look. “You lie!” he vociferated, at the same
time raising his hand to check the angry mutterings of the men that boded ill
for the greaser. “Nay,” denied Castro, strenuously, “pleanty Mexican _vaquero_--
my friend Peralta, Weelejos all weeth Ramerrez--so I know where ees.”

Rance advanced and shot a finger in his face. “You’re one of his men yourself!”
he cried hotly. But if he had hoped by his accusation to take the man off his
guard, it was eminently unsuccessful, for the look on the greaser’s face was
innocence itself when he declared:

“No, no, Señor Sheriff.”

Rance reflected a moment; suddenly, then, he took another tack. “You see that
man there?” he queried, pointing to the Wells Fargo Agent. “That is Ashby. He is
the man that pays out that reward you’ve heard of.” Then after a pause to let
his words sink in, he demanded gruffly: “Where is Ramerrez’ camp?”

At once the prisoner became voluble. “Come with me one mile, Señor,” he said,
“and by the soul of my mother, the blessed Maria Saltaja, we weel put a knife
into hees back.”

“One mile, eh?” repeated Rance, coolly. The miners looked incredulous. “If I
tho’t--” began Sonora, but Rance rudely cut in with:

“Where is this trail?”

“Up the Madrona Canyada,” was the greaser’s instant reply. At this juncture a
Ridge boy, who had pushed aside the bear-skin curtain and was gazing with mouth
wide open at the proceedings, suddenly cried out:

“Why, hello, boys! What’s the--” He got no further. In a twinkling and with
cries of “Shut up! Git!” the men made for the intruder and bodily threw him out
of the room. When quiet was restored Rance motioned to the prisoner to proceed.
“Ramerrez can be taken--too well taken,” declared the Mexican, gaining
confidence as he went on, “if many men come with me--in forty minutes there--
back.”

Rance turned to Ashby and asked him what he thought about it. “I don’t know what
to think,” was the Wells Fargo Agent’s reply. “But it certainly is curious. This
is the second warning--intimation that we have had that he is somewhere in this
vicinity.”

“And this Nina Micheltoreña--you say she is coming here to-night?”

Ashby nodded assent. “All the same, Rance,” he maintained, “I wouldn’t go.
Better drop in to The Palmetto later.”

“What? Risk losin’ ’im?” exclaimed Sonora, who had been listening intently to
their conversation. “We’ll take the chance, boys, in spite of Ashby’s advice,”
Rance said decisively. It was with not a little surprise that he heard the
shouts with which his words were approved by all save the Wells Fargo Agent. Now
the miners made a rush for their coats, hats and saddles, while from all sides
came the cries of, “Come on, boys! Careful--there! Ready--Sheriff!”

Gladly, cheerfully, Nick, too, did what he could to get the men started by
setting up the drinks for all hands, though he remarked as he did so:

“It’s goin’ to snow, boys; I don’t like the sniff in the air.”

But even the probability of encountering a storm--which in that altitude was
something decidedly to be reckoned with--did not deter the men from proceeding
to make ready for the road agent’s capture. In an incredibly short space of time
they had loaded up and got their horses together, and from the harmony in their
ranks while carrying out orders, it was evident that not a man there doubted the
success of their undertaking. “We’ll git this road agent!” sung out Trinidad,
going out through the door. “Right you are, pard!” agreed Sonora; but at the
door he called back to the greaser: “Come on, you oily, garlic-eatin’, red-
peppery, dog-trottin’, sun-baked son of a skunk!”

“Come on, you...!” came simultaneously from the Deputy, now untying the rope
which bound the prisoner. The greaser’s teeth were chattering; he begged:

“One dreenk--I freeze....”

Turning to Nick the Deputy told him to give the man a drink, adding as he left
the room:

“Watch him--keep your eye on him a moment for me, will you?”

Nick nodded; and then regarding the Mexican with a contemptuous look, he asked:

“What’ll you have?”

The Mexican rose to his feet and began hesitatingly:

“Geeve me--” He paused; and then, starting with the thought that had come to
him, he shot a glance at the dance-hall and called out loudly, rolling his r’s
even more pronouncedly than is the custom with his race: “Aguardiente!
Aguardiente!”

“Sit down!” ordered Nick, vaguely conscious that there was something in the
greaser’s voice that was not there before. The greaser obeyed, but not until he
knew for a certainty that his voice had been heard by his master. “So you did
bring in my saddle, eh, Nick?” asked the road agent, coming quickly, but
unconcernedly into the room and standing behind his man. Up to this time, Nick’s
eyes had not left the prisoner, but with the appearance on the scene of Johnson,
he felt that his responsibility ceased in a measure. He turned and gave his
attention to matters pertaining to the bar. As a consequence, he did not see the
look of recognition that passed between the two men, nor did he hear the
whispered dialogue in Spanish that followed. “_Maestro! Ramerrez!_” came in
whispered tones from Castro. “Speak quickly--go on,” came likewise in whispered
tones from the road agent. “I let them take me according to your bidding,” went
on Castro. “Careful, Jose, careful,” warned his master while stooping to pick up
his saddle, which he afterwards laid on the faro table. It was while he was thus
engaged that Nick came over to the prisoner with a glass of liquor, which he
handed to him gruffly with:

“Here!”

At that moment several voices from the dance-hall called somewhat impatiently:
“Nick, Nick!”

“Oh, The Ridge boys are goin’!” he said, and seeming intuitively to know what
was wanted he made for the bar. But before acceding to their wishes, he turned
to Johnson, took out his gun and offered it to him with the words: “Say, watch
this greaser for a moment, will you?”

“Certainly,” responded Johnson, quickly, declining the other’s pistol by
touching his own holster significantly. “Tell the Girl you pressed me into
service,” he concluded with a smile. “Sure.” But on the point of going, the
little barkeeper turned to him and confided: “Say, the Girl’s taken an awful
fancy to you.”

“No?” deprecated the road agent. “Yes,” affirmed Nick. “Drop in often--great
bar!”

Johnson smiled an assent as the other went out of the room leaving master and
man together. “Now, then, Jose, go on,” he said, when they were alone. “_Bueno!_
Our men await the signal in the bushes close by. I will lead the Sheriff far off
--then I will slip away. You quietly rob the place and fly--it is death for you
to linger--Ashby is here.”

“Ashby!” The road agent started in alarm. “Ashby--” reiterated Castro and
stopped on seeing that Nick had returned to see that all was well. “All right,
Nick, everything’s all right,” Johnson reassured him. The outlaw’s position
remained unchanged until Nick had withdrawn. From where he stood he now saw for
the first time the preparations that were being made for his capture: the red
torchlights and white candle-lighted lanterns which were reflected through the
windows; and a moment more he heard the shouts of the miners calling to one
another. Of a sudden he was aroused to a consciousness, at least, of their
danger by Castro’s warning:

“By to-morrow’s twilight you must be safe in your rancho.”

The road agent shook his head determinedly. “No, we raid on.”

Castro was visibly excited. “There are a hundred men on your track.”

Johnson smiled. “Oh, one minute’s start of the devil does me, Jose.”

“Ah, but I fear the woman--Nina Micheltoreña--I fear her terribly. She is close
at hand--knowing all, angry with you, and jealous--and still loving you.”

“Loving me? Oh, no, Jose! Nina, like you, loves the spoils, not me. No, I raid
on....”

A silence fell upon the two men, which was broken by Sonora calling out:

“Bring along the greaser, Dep!”

“All right!” answered the loud voice of the Deputy. “You hear--we start,”
whispered Castro to his master. “Give the signal.” And notwithstanding, the
miners were coming through the door for him and stood waiting, torches in hand,
he contrived to finish: “Antonio awaits for it. Only the woman and her servant
will stay behind here.”

“Adios!” whispered the master. “Adios!” returned his man simultaneously with the
approach of the Deputy towards them. It was then that the Girl’s gay, happy
voice floated in on them from the dance-hall; she cried out:

“Good-night, boys, good-night! Remember me to The Ridge!”

“You bet we will! So long! Whoop! Whooppee!” chorussed the men, while the
Deputy, grabbing the Mexican by the collar, ordered him to, “Come on!”

The situation was not without its humorous side to the road agent; he could not
resist following the crowd to the door where he stood and watched his would-be
captors silently mount; listened to the Sheriff give the word, which was
immediately followed by the sound of horses grunting as they sprang forward into
the darkness in a desperate effort to escape the maddening pain of the
descending quirts and cruel spurs. It was a scene to set the blood racing
through the veins, viewed in any light; and not until the yells of the men had
grown indistinct, and all that could be heard was the ever-decreasing sound of
rushing hoofs, did the outlaw turn back into the saloon over which there hung a
silence which, by contrast, he found strangely depressing. VIII

There was a subtle change, an obvious lack of warmth in Johnson’s manner, which
the Girl was quick to feel upon returning to the now practically deserted
saloon. “Don’t it feel funny here--kind o’ creepy?” She gave the words a
peculiar emphasis, which made Johnson flash a quick, inquisitorial look at her;
and then, no comment being forthcoming, she went on to explain: “I s’pose though
that’s ’cause I don’t remember seein’ the bar so empty before.”

A somewhat awkward silence followed, which at length was broken by the Girl, who
ordered:

“Lights out now! Put out the candle here, too, Nick!” But while the little
barkeeper proceeded to carry out her instructions she turned to Johnson with an
eager, frank expression on her face, and said: “Oh, you ain’t goin’, are you?”

“No--not yet--no--” stammered Johnson, half-surprisedly, half-wonderingly. The
Girl’s face wore a pleased look as she answered:

“Oh, I’m so glad o’ that!”

Another embarrassing silence followed. At last Nick made a movement towards the
window, saying:

“I’m goin’ to put the shutters up.”

“So early? What?” The Girl looked her surprise. “Well, you see, the boys are out
huntin’ Ramerrez, and there’s too much money here....” said Nick in a low tone.
The Girl laughed lightly. “Oh, all right--cash in--but don’t put the head on the
keg--I ain’t cashed in m’self yet.”

Rolling the keg to one side of the room, Nick beckoned to the Girl to come close
to him, which she did; and pointing to Johnson, who was strolling about the
room, humming softly to himself, he whispered:

“Say, Girl, know anythin’ about--about him?”

But very significant as was Nick’s pantomime, which included the keg and
Johnson, it succeeded only in bringing forth a laugh from the Girl, and the
words:

“Oh, sure!”

Nevertheless, the faithful guardian of the Girl’s interests sent a startled
glance of inquiry about the room, and again asked:

“All right, eh?”

The Girl ignored the implication contained in the other’s glance, and answered
“Yep,” in such a tone of finality that Nick, reassured at last, began to put
things ship-shape for the night. This took but a moment or two, however, and
then he quietly disappeared. “Well, Mr. Johnson, it seems to be us a-keepin’
house here to-night, don’t it?” said the Girl, alone now with the road agent.
Her observation might easily have been interpreted as purposely introductory to
an intimate scene, notwithstanding that it was made in a thoroughly matter-of-
fact tone and without the slightest trace of coquetry. But Johnson did not make
the mistake of misconstruing her words, puzzled though he was to find a clue to
them. His curiosity about her was intense, and it showed plainly in the voice
that said presently:

“Isn’t it strange how things come about? Strange that I should have looked
everywhere for you and in the end find you here--at The Polka.”

Johnson’s emphasis on his last words sent a bright red rushing over her,
colouring her neck, her ears and her broad, white forehead. “Anythin’ wrong with
The Polka?”

Johnson was conscious of an indiscreet remark; nevertheless he ventured:

“Well, it’s hardly the place for a young woman like you.”

The Girl made no reply to this but busied herself with the closing-up of the
saloon. Johnson interpreted her silence as a difference of opinion.
Nevertheless, he repeated with emphasis:

“It is decidedly no place for you.”

“How so?”

“Well, it’s rather unprotected, and--”

“Oh, pshaw!” interrupted the Girl somewhat irritably. “I tol’ Ashby only to-
night that I bet if a rud agent come in here I could offer ’im a drink an’ he’d
treat me like a perfect lady.” She stopped and turned upon him impulsively with:
“Say, that reminds me, won’t you take somethin’?”

Before answering, Johnson shot her a quick look of inquiry to see whether there
was not a hidden meaning in her words. Of course there was not, the remark being
impelled by a sudden consciousness that he might consider her inhospitable.
Nevertheless, her going behind the bar and picking up a bottle came somewhat as
a relief to him. “No, thank you,” at last he said; and then as he leaned heavily
on the bar: “But I would very much like to ask you a question.”

Instantly, to his great surprise, the Girl was eyeing him with mingled reproach
and coquetry. So he was going to do it! Was it possible that he thought so
lightly of her, she wondered. With all her heart she wished that he would not
make the same mistake that others had. “I know what it is--every stranger asks
it--but I didn’t think you would. You want to know if I am decent? Well, I am,
you bet!” she returned, a defiant note creeping into her voice as she uttered
the concluding words. “Oh, Girl, I’m not blind!” His eyes quailed before the
look that flamed in hers. “And that was not the question.”

Instinctively something told the Girl that the man spoke the truth, but
notwithstanding which, she permitted her eyes to express disbelief and “Dear me
suz!” fell from her lips with an odd little laugh. On the other hand, Johnson
declined to treat the subject other than seriously. He had no desire, of course,
to enlarge upon the unconventionality of her attitude, but he felt that his
feelings towards her, even if they were only friendly, justified him in giving
her a warning. Moreover, he refused to admit to himself that this was a mere
chance meeting. He had a consciousness, vague, but nevertheless real that, at
last, after all his searching, Fate had brought him face to face with the one
woman in all the world for him. Unknown to himself, therefore, there was a sort
of jealous proprietorship in his manner towards her as he now said:

“What I meant was this: I am sorry to find you here almost at the mercy of the
passer-by, where a man may come, may drink, may rob you if he will--” and here a
flush of shame spread over his features in spite of himself--“and where, I
daresay, more than one has laid claim to a kiss.”

The Girl turned upon him in good-natured contempt. “There’s a good many people
claimin’ things they never git. I’ve got my first kiss to give.”

Once more a brief silence fell upon them in which the Girl busied herself with
her cash box. She was not unaware that his eyes were upon her, but she was by no
means sure that he believed her words. Nor could she tell herself, unfortunately
for her peace of mind, that it made no difference to her. “Have you been here
long?” suddenly he asked. “Yep.”

“Lived in The Polka?”

“Nope.”

“Where do you live?”

“Cabin up the mountain a little ways.”

“Cabin up the mountain a little ways,” echoed Johnson, reflectively. The next
instant the little figure before him had faded from his sight and instead there
appeared a vision of the little hut on the top of Cloudy Mountain. Only a few
hours back he had stood on the precipice which looked towards it, and had felt a
vague, indefinable something, had heard a voice speak to him out of the vastness
which he now believed to have been her spirit calling to him. “You’re worth
something better than this,” after a while he murmured with the tenderness of
real love in his voice. “What’s better’n this?” questioned the Girl with a toss
of her pretty blonde head. “I ain’t a-boastin’ but if keepin’ this saloon don’t
give me sort of a position ’round here I dunno what does.”

But the next moment there had flashed through her mind a new thought concerning
him. She came out from behind the bar and confronted him with the question:

“Look ’ere, you ain’t one o’ them exhorters from the Missionaries’ Camp, are
you?”

The road agent smiled. “My profession has its faults,” he acknowledged, “but I
am not an exhorter.”

But still the Girl was nonplussed, and eyed him steadily for a moment or two.
“You know I can’t figger out jest exactly what you are?” she admitted smilingly.
“Well, try ...” he suggested, slightly colouring under her persistent gaze.
“Well, you ain’t one o’ us.”

“No?”

“Oh, I can tell--I can spot my man every time. I tell you, keepin’ saloon’s a
great educator.” And so saying she plumped herself down in a chair and went on
very seriously now: “I dunno but what it’s a good way to bring up girls--they
git to know things. Now,” and here she looked at him long and earnestly, “I’d
trust you.”

Johnson was conscious of a guilty feeling, though he said as he took a seat
beside her:

“You would trust me?”

The Girl nodded an assent and observed in a tone that was intended to be
thoroughly conclusive:

“Notice I danced with you to-night?”

“Yes,” was his brief reply, though the next moment he wondered that he had not
found something more to say. “I seen from the first that you were the real
article.”

“I beg your pardon,” he said absently, still lost in thought. “Why, that was a
compliment I handed out to you,” returned the Girl with a pained look on her
face. “Oh!” he ejaculated with a faint little smile. Now the Girl, who had drawn
up her chair close to his, leaned over and said in a low, confidential voice:

“Your kind don’t prevail much here. I can tell--I got what you call a quick
eye.”

As might be expected Johnson flushed guiltily at this remark. No different, for
that matter, would have acted many a man whose conscience was far clearer. “Oh,
I’m afraid that men like me prevail--prevail, as you say,--almost everywhere,”
he said, laying such stress on the words that it would seem almost impossible
for anyone not to see that they were shot through with self-depreciation. The
Girl gave him a playful dig with her elbow. “Go on! What are you givin’ me! O’
course they don’t...!” She laughed outright; but the next instant checking
herself, went on with absolute ingenuousness: “Before I went on that trip to
Monterey I tho’t Rance here was the genuine thing in a gent, but the minute I
kind o’ glanced over you on the road I--I seen he wasn’t.” She stopped, a
realisation having suddenly been borne in upon her that perhaps she was laying
her heart too bare to him. To cover up her embarrassment, therefore, she took
refuge, as before, in hospitality, and rushing over to the bar she called to
Nick to come and serve Mr. Johnson with a drink, only to dismiss him the moment
he put his head through the door with: “Never mind, I’ll help Mr. Johnson
m’self.” Turning to her visitor again, she said: “Have your whisky with water,
won’t you?”

“But I don’t--” began Johnson in protest. “Say,” interrupted the Girl, falling
back into her favourite position of resting both elbows on the bar, her face in
her hands, “I’ve got you figgered out. You’re awful good or awful bad.” A remark
which seemed to amuse the man, for he laughed heartily. “Now, what do you mean
by that?” presently he asked. “Well, I mean so good that you’re a teetotaller,
or so bad that you’re tired o’ life an’ whisky.”

Johnson shook his head. “On the contrary, although I’m not good, I’ve lived and
I’ve liked life pretty well. It’s been bully!”

Surprised and delighted with his enthusiasm, the Girl raised her eyes to his,
which look he mistook--not unnaturally after all that had been said--for one of
encouragement. A moment more and the restraint that he had exercised over
himself had vanished completely. “So have you liked it, Girl,” he went on,
trying vainly to get possession of her hand, “only you haven’t lived, you
haven’t lived--not with your nature. You see I’ve got a quick eye, too.”

To Johnson’s amazement she flushed and averted her face. Following the direction
of her eyes he saw Nick standing in the door with a broad grin on his face. “You
git, Nick! What do you mean by...?” cried out the Girl in a tone that left no
doubt in the minds of her hearers that she was annoyed, if not angry, at the
intrusion. Nick disappeared into the dance-hall as though shot out of a gun;
whereupon, the Girl turned to Johnson with:

“I haven’t lived? That’s good!”

Johnson’s next words were insinuating, but his voice was cold in comparison with
the fervent tones of a moment previous. “Oh, you know!” was what he said,
seating himself at the poker table. “No, I don’t,” contradicted the Girl, taking
a seat opposite him. “Yes, you do,” he insisted. “Well, say it’s an even chance
I do an’ an even chance I don’t,” she parried. Once more the passion in the man
was stirring. “I mean,” he explained in a voice that barely reached her, “life
for all it’s worth, to the uttermost, to the last drop in the cup, so that it
atones for what’s gone before, or may come after.”

The Girl’s face wore a puzzled look as she answered:

“No, I don’t believe I know what you mean by them words. Is it a--” She cut her
sentence short, and springing up, cried out: “Oh, Lord--Oh, excuse me, I sat on
my gun!”

Johnson looked at her, genuine amusement depicted on his face. “Look here,” said
the Girl, suddenly perching herself upon the table, “I’m goin’ to make you an
offer.”

“An offer?” Johnson fairly snatched the words out of her mouth. “You’re going to
make me an offer?”

“It’s this,” declared the Girl with a pleased look on her face. “If ever you
need to be staked--”

Johnson eyed her uncomprehendingly. “Which o’ course you don’t,” she hastened to
add. “Name your price. It’s yours jest for the style I git from you an’ the
deportment.”

“Deportment? Me?” A half-grin formed over Johnson’s face as he asked the
question; then he said: “Well, I never heard before that my society was so
desirable. Apart from the financial aspect of this matter, I--”

“Say,” broke in the Girl, gazing at him in helpless admiration, “ain’t that
great? Ain’t that great? Oh, you got to let me stand treat!”

“No, really I would prefer not to take anything,” responded Johnson, putting a
restraining hand on her as she was about to leap from the table. At that moment
Nick’s hurried footsteps reached their ears. Turning, the Girl, with a swift
gesture, waved him back. There was a brief silence, then Johnson spoke:

“Say, Girl, you’re like finding some new kind of flower.”

A slight laugh of confusion was his answer. The next moment, however, she went
on, speaking very slowly and seriously: “Well, we’re kind o’ rough up here, but
we’re reachin’ out.”

Johnson noted immediately the change in her voice. There was no mistaking the
genuineness of her emotion, nor the wistful look in her eyes. It was plain that
she yearned for someone who would teach her the ways of the outside world; and
when the man looked at the Girl with the lamp-light softening her features, he
felt her sincerity and was pleased by her confidence. “Now, I take it,”
continued the Girl with a vague, dreamy look on her face, “that’s what we’re all
put on this earth for--everyone of us--is to rise ourselves up in the world--to
reach out.”

“That’s true, that’s true,” returned Johnson with gentle and perfect sympathy.
“I venture to say that there isn’t a man who hasn’t thought seriously about
that. I have. If only one knew how to reach out for something one hardly dares
even hope for. Why, it’s like trying to catch the star shining just ahead.”

The Girl could not restrain her enthusiasm. “That’s the cheese! You’ve struck
it!”

At this juncture Nick appeared and refused to be ordered away. At length, the
Girl inquired somewhat impatiently:

“Well, what is it, Nick?”

“I’ve been tryin’ to say,” announced the barkeeper, whose face wore an
expression of uneasiness as he pointed to the window, “that I have seen an ugly-
lookin’ greaser hanging around outside.”

“A greaser!” exclaimed the Girl, uneasily. “Let me look.” And with that she made
a movement towards the window, but was held back by Johnson’s detaining hand.
All too well did he know that the Mexican was one of his men waiting impatiently
for the signal. So, with an air of concern, for he did not intend that the Girl
should run any risk, however remote, he said authoritatively:

“Don’t go!”

“Why not?” demanded the Girl. Johnson sat strangely silent. “I’ll bolt the
windows!” cried Nick. Hardly had he disappeared into the dance-hall when a low
whistle came to their ears. “The signal--they’re waiting,” said Johnson under
his breath, and shot a quick look of inquiry at the Girl to see whether she had
heard the sound. A look told him that she had, and was uneasy over it. “Don’t
that sound horrid?” said the Girl, reaching the bar in a state of perturbation.
“Say, I’m awful glad you’re here. Nick’s so nervous. He knows what a lot o’
money I got. Why, there’s a little fortune in that keg.”

Johnson started; then rising slowly he went over to the keg and examined it with
interest. “In there?” he asked, with difficulty concealing his excitement. “Yes;
the boys sleep around it nights,” she went on to confide. Johnson looked at her
curiously. “But when they’re gone--isn’t that rather a careless place to leave
it?”

Quietly the Girl came from behind the bar and went over and stood beside the
keg; when she spoke her eyes flashed dangerously. “They’d have to kill me before
they got it,” she said, with cool deliberation. “Oh, I see--it’s your money.”

“No, it’s the boys’.”

A look of relief crossed Johnson’s features. “Oh, that’s different,” he
contended; and then brightening up somewhat, he went on: “Now, I wouldn’t risk
my life for that.”

“Oh, yes, you would, yes, you would,” declared the Girl with feeling. A moment
later she was down on her knees putting bag after bag of the precious gold-dust
and coins into the keg. When they were all in she closed the lid, and putting
her foot down hard to make it secure, she repeated: “Oh, yes, you would, if you
seen how hard they got it. When I think of it, I nearly cry.”

Johnson had listened absorbedly, and was strangely affected by her words. In her
rapidly-filling eyes, in the wave of colour that surged in her cheeks, in the
voice that shook despite her efforts to control it, he read how intense was her
interest in the welfare of the miners. How the men must adore her! Unconsciously
the Girl arose, and said:

“There’s somethin’ awful pretty in the way the boys hold out before they strike
it, somethin’ awful pretty in the face o’ rocks, an’ clay an’ alkali. Oh, Lord,
what a life it is anyway! They eat dirt, they sleep in dirt, they breathe dirt
’til their backs are bent, their hands twisted an’ warped. They’re all wind-
swept an’ blear-eyed I tell you, an’ some o’ them jest lie down in their sweat
beside the sluices, an’ they don’t never rise up again. I’ve seen ’em there!”
She paused reminiscently; then, pointing to the keg, she went on haltingly: “I
got some money there of Ol’ Brownie’s. He was lyin’ out in the sun on a pile o’
clay two weeks ago, an’ I guess the only clean thing about him was his soul, an’
he was quittin’, quittin’, quittin’, right there on the clay, an’ quittin’ hard.
Oh, so hard!” Once more she stopped and covered her face with her hands as if to
shut out the horror of it all. Presently she had herself under control and
resumed: “Yes, he died--jest like a dog. You wanted to shoot ’im to help ’im
along quicker. Before he went he sez to me: ‘Girl, give it to my ol’ woman.’
That was all he said, an’ he went. She’ll git it, all right.”

With every word that the Girl uttered, the iron had entered deeper into
Johnson’s soul. Up to the present time he had tried to regard his profession, if
he looked at it at all, from the point of view which he inherited from his
father. It was not, in all truthfulness, what he would have chosen; it was
something that, at times, he lamented; but, nevertheless, he had practised it
and had despoiled the miners with but few moments of remorse. But now, he was
beginning to look upon things differently. In a brief space of time a woman had
impelled him to see his actions in their true light; new ambitions and desires
awakened, and he looked downward as if it were impossible to meet her honest
eye. “An’ that’s what aches you,” the Girl was now saying. “There ain’t one o’
them men workin’ for themselves alone--the Lord never put it into no man’s heart
to make a beast or a pack-horse o’ himself, except for some woman or some
child.” She halted a moment, and throwing up her hands impulsively, she cried:
“Ain’t it wonderful--ain’t it wonderful that instinct? Ain’t it wonderful what a
man’ll do when it comes to a woman--ain’t it wonderful?” Once more she waited as
if expecting him to corroborate her words; but he remained strangely silent. A
moment later when he raised his troubled eyes, he saw that hers were dry and
twinkling. “Well, the boys use me as a--a sort of lady bank,” presently she
said; and then added with another quick change of expression, and in a voice
that showed great determination: “You bet I’ll drop down dead before anyone’ll
get a dollar o’ theirs outer The Polka!”

Impulsively the road agent’s hand went out to her, and with it went a mental
resolution that so far as he was concerned no hard-working miner of Cloudy
Mountain need fear for his gold! “That’s right,” was what he said. “I’m with you
--I’d like to see anyone get that.” He dropped her hand and laid his on the keg;
then with a voice charged with much feeling, he added: “Girl, I wish to Heaven I
could talk more with you, but I can’t. By daybreak I must be a long ways off.
I’m sorry--I should have liked to have called at your cabin.”

The Girl shot him a furtive glance. “Must you be a-movin’ so soon?” she asked.
“Yes; I’m only waiting till the posse gets back and you’re safe.” And even as he
spoke his trained ear caught the sound of horses hoofs. “Why, they’re coming
now!” he exclaimed with suppressed excitement, and his eyes immediately fastened
themselves on his saddle. The Girl looked her disappointment when she said:

“I’m awfully sorry you’ve got to go. I was goin’ to say--” She stopped, and
began to roll the keg back to its place. Now she took the lantern from the bar
and placed it on the keg; then turning to him once more she went on in a voice
that was distinctly persuasive: “If you didn’t have to go so soon, I would like
to have you come up to the cabin to-night an’ we would talk o’ reachin’ out up
there. You see, the boys will be back here--we close The Polka at one--any time
after....”

Hesitatingly, helplessly, Johnson stared at the Girl before him. His acceptance,
he realised only too well, meant a pleasant hour or two for him, of which there
were only too few in the mad career that he was following, and he wanted to take
advantage of it; on the other hand, his better judgment told him that already he
should be on his way. “Why, I--I should ride on now.” He began and then stopped,
the next moment, however, he threw down his hat on the table in resignation and
announced: “I’ll come.”

“Oh, good!” cried the Girl, making no attempt to conceal her delight. “You can
use this,” she went on, handing him the lantern. “It’s the straight trail up;
you can’t miss it. But I say, don’t expect too much o’ me--I’ve only had thirty-
two dollars’ worth o’ education.” Despite her struggle to control herself, her
voice broke and her eyes filled with tears. “P’r’aps if I’d had more,” she kept
on, regretfully, “why, you can’t tell what I might have been. Say, that’s a
terrible tho’t, ain’t it? What we might a been--an’ I know it when I look at
you.”

Johnson was deeply touched at the Girl’s distress, and his voice broke, too, as
he said:

“Yes, what we might have been is a terrible thought, and I know it, Girl, when I
look at you--when I look at you.”

“You bet!” ejaculated the Girl. And then to Johnson’s consternation she broke
down completely, burying her face in her hands and sobbing out: “Oh, ’tain’t no
use, I’m rotten, I’m ignorant, I don’t know nothin’ an’ I never knowed it ’till
to-night! The boys always tol’ me I knowed so much, but they’re such damn
liars!”

In an instant Johnson was beside her, patting her hand caressingly; she felt the
sympathy in his touch and was quick to respond to it. “Don’t you care, Girl,
you’re all right,” he told her, choking back with difficulty the tears in his
own voice. “Your heart’s all right, that’s the main thing. And as for your
looks? Well, to me you’ve got the face of an angel--the face--” He broke off
abruptly and ended with: “Oh, but I must be going now!”

A moment more and he stood framed in the doorway, his saddle in one hand and the
Girl’s lantern in the other, torn by two emotions which grappled with each other
in his bosom. “Johnson, what the devil’s the matter with you?” he muttered half-
aloud; then suddenly pulling himself together he stumbled rather than walked out
of The Polka into the night. Motionless and trying to check her sobs, the Girl
remained where he had left her; but a few minutes later, when Nick entered, all
trace of her tears had disappeared. “Nick,” said she, all smiles now, “run over
to The Palmetto restaurant an’ tell ’em to send me up two charlotte rusks an’ a
lemming turnover--a good, big, fat one--jest as quick as they can--right up to
the cabin for supper.”

“He says I have the face of an angel,” is what the Girl repeated over and over
again to herself when perched up again on the poker table after the wondering
barkeeper had departed on her errand, and for a brief space of time her
countenance reflected the joy that Johnson’s parting words had imprinted on her
heart. But in the Girl’s character there was an element too prosaic, and too
practical, to permit her thoughts to dwell long in a region lifted far above the
earth. It was inevitable, therefore, that the notion should presently strike her
as supremely comic and, quickly leaping to the floor, she let out the one word
which, however adequately it may have expressed her conflicting emotions, is
never by any chance to be found in the vocabulary of angels in good standing. IX

Notwithstanding that The Palmetto was the most pretentious building in Cloudy,
and was the only rooming and eating house that outwardly asserted its right to
be called an hotel, its saloon contrasted unfavourably with its rival, The
Polka. There was not the individuality of the Girl there to charm away the
impress of coarseness settled upon it by the loafers, the habitual drunkards and
the riffraff of the camp, who were not tolerated elsewhere. In short, it did not
have that certain indefinable something which gave to The Polka Saloon an almost
homelike appearance, but was a drab, squalid, soulless place with nothing to
recommend it but its size. In a small parlour pungent at all times with the
odour of liquor,--but used only on rare occasions, most of The Palmetto’s
patrons preferring the even more stifling atmosphere of the bar-room,--the Wells
Fargo Agent had been watching and waiting ever since he had left The Polka
Saloon. On a table in front of him was a bottle, for it was a part of Ashby’s
scheme of things to solace thus all such weary hours. Although a shrewd judge of
women of the Nina Micheltoreña type and by no means unmindful of their mercurial
temperament, Ashby, nevertheless, had felt that she would keep her appointment
with him. In the Mexican Camp he had read the wild jealousy in her eyes, and had
assumed, not unnaturally, that there had been scarcely time for anything to
occur which would cause a revulsion of feeling on her part. But as the moments
went by, and still she did not put in an appearance, an expression of keen
disappointment showed itself on his face and, with mechanical regularity, he
carried out the liquid programme, shutting his eyes after each drink for moments
at a time yet, apparently, in perfect control of his mind when he opened them
again; and it was in one of these moments that he heard a step outside which he
correctly surmised to be that of the Sheriff. Without a word Rance walked into
the room and over to the table and helped himself to a drink from the bottle
there, which action the Wells Fargo Agent rightly interpreted as meaning that
the posse had failed to catch their quarry. At first a glint of satisfaction
shone in Ashby’s eyes: not that he disliked Rance, but rather that he resented
his egotistical manner and evident desire to overawe all who came in contact
with him; and it required, therefore, no little effort on his part to banish
this look from his face and make up his mind not to mention the subject in any
manner. For some time, therefore, the two officers sat opposite to each other
inhaling the stale odour of tobacco and spirits peculiar to this room, with
little or no ventilation. It was enough to sicken anyone, but both men,
accustomed to such places in the pursuit of their calling, apparently thought
nothing of it, the Sheriff seemingly absorbed in contemplating the long ash at
the end of his cigar, but, in reality, turning over in his mind whether he
should leave the room or not. At length, he inaugurated a little contest of
opinion. “This woman isn’t coming, that’s certain,” he declared, impatiently. “I
rather think she will; she promised not to fail me,” was the other’s quiet
answer; and he added: “In ten minutes you’ll see her.”

It was a rash remark and expressive of a confidence that he by no means felt. As
a matter of fact, it was induced solely by the cynical smile which he perceived
on the Sheriff’s face. “You, evidently, take no account of the fact that the
lady may have changed her mind,” observed Rance, lighting a fresh cigar. “The
Nina Micheltoreñas are fully as privileged as others of their sex.”

As he drained his glass Ashby gave the speaker a sharp glance; another side of
Rance’s character had cropped out. Moreover, Ashby’s quick intuition told him
that the other’s failure to catch the outlaw was not troubling him nearly as
much as was the blow which his conceit had probably received at the hands of the
Girl. It was, therefore, in an indulgent tone that he said:

“No, Rance, not this one nor this time. You mark my words, the woman is through
with Ramerrez. At least, she is so jealous that she thinks she is. She’ll turn
up here, never fear; she means business.”

The shoulders of Mr. Jack Rance strongly suggested a shrug, but the man himself
said nothing. They were anything but sympathetic companions, these two officers,
and in the silence that ensued Rance formulated mentally more than one
disparaging remark about the big man sitting opposite to him. It is possible, of
course, that the Sheriff’s rebuff by the Girl, together with the wild goose
chase which he had recently taken against his better judgment, had something to
do with this bitterness; but it was none the less true that he found himself
wondering how Ashby had succeeded in acquiring his great reputation. Among the
things that he held against him was his everlasting propensity to boast of his
achievements, to say nothing of the pedestal upon which the boys insisted upon
placing him. Was this Wells Fargo’s most famous agent? Was this the man whose
warnings were given such credence that they stirred even the largest of the gold
camps into a sense of insecurity? And at this Rance indulged again in a fit of
mental merriment at the other’s expense. But, although he would have denied it
in toto, the truth of the matter was that the Sheriff was jealous of Ashby.
Witty, generous, and a high liver, the latter was generally regarded as a man
who fascinated women; moreover, he was known to be a favourite--and here the
shoe pinched--with the Girl. True, the demands of his profession were such as to
prevent his staying long in any camp. Nevertheless, it seemed to Rance that he
contrived frequently to turn up at The Polka when the boys were at the diggings.
After Ashby’s observation the conversation by mutual, if unspoken, consent, was
switched into other channels. But it may be truthfully said that Rance did not
wholly recover his mental equilibrium until a door was heard to open noiselessly
and some whispered words in Spanish fell upon their ears. Now the Sheriff, as
well as Ashby, had the detective instinct fully developed; moreover, both men
knew a few words of that language and had an extreme curiosity to hear the
conversation going on between a man and a woman, who were standing just outside
in a sort of hallway. As a result, therefore, both officers sprang to the door
with the hope--if indeed it was Nina Micheltoreña as they surmised--that they
might catch a word or two which would give them a clue to what was likely to
take place at the coming interview. It came sooner than they expected. “ ...
Ramerrez--Five thousand dollars!” reached their ears in a soft, Spanish voice.
Ashby needed nothing more than this. In an instant, much to the Sheriff’s
astonishment, and moving marvellously quick for a man of his heavy build, he was
out of the room, leaving Rance to face a woman with a black mantilla thrown over
her head who, presently, entered by another door. Nina Micheltoreña, for it was
she, did not favour him with as much as an icy look. Nor did the Sheriff give
any sign of knowing her; a wise proceeding as it turned out, for a quick turn of
the head and a subtle movement of the woman’s shoulders told him that she was in
anything but a quiet state of mind. One glance towards the door behind him,
however, and the reason of her anger was all too plain: A Mexican was vainly
struggling in the clutches of Ashby. “Why are you dragging him in?” Far from
quailing before him as did her confederate, she confronted Ashby with eyes that
flashed fire. “He came with me--”

Ashby cut her short. “We don’t allow greasers in this camp and--” he began in a
throaty voice. “But he is waiting to take me back!” she objected, and then
added: “I wish him to wait for me outside, and unless you allow him to I’ll go
at once.” And with these words she made a movement towards the door. Ashby laid
one restraining hand upon her, while with the other he held on to the Mexican.
Of a sudden there had dawned upon him the conviction that for once in his life
he had made a grievous mistake. He had thought, by the detention of her
confederate, to have two strings to his bow, but one glance at the sneeringly
censorious expression on the Sheriff’s face convinced him that no information
would be forthcoming from the woman while in her present rebellious mood. “All
right, my lady,” he said, for the time being yielding to her will, “have your
way.” And turning now to the Mexican, he added none too gently: “Here you, get
out!”

Whereupon the Mexican slunk out of the room. “There’s no use of your getting
into a rage,” went on Ashby, turning to the woman in a slightly conciliatory
manner. “I calculated that the greaser would be in on the job, too.”

All through this scene Rance had been sitting back in his chair chewing his
cigar in contemptuous silence, while his face wore a look of languid insolence,
a fact which, apparently, did not disturb the woman in the least, for she
ignored him completely. “It was well for you, Señor Ashby, that you let him go.
I tell you frankly that in another moment I should have gone.” And now throwing
back her mantilla she took out a cigarette from a dainty, little case and lit it
and coolly blew a cloud of smoke in Rance’s face, saying: “It depends on how you
treat me--you, Mr. Jack Rance, as well as Señor Ashby--whether we come to terms
or not. Perhaps I had better go away anyway,” she concluded with a shrug of
admirably simulated indifference. This time Ashby sat perfectly still. It was
not difficult to perceive that her anger was decreasing with every word that she
uttered; nor did he fail to note how fluently she spoke English, a slight
Spanish accent giving added charm to her wonderfully soft and musical voice. How
gloriously beautiful, he told himself, she looked as she stood there,
voluptuous, compelling, alluring, the expression that had been almost
diabolical, gradually fading from her face. Was it possible, he asked himself,
that all this loveliness was soiled forever? He felt that there was something
pitiful in the fact that the woman standing before him represented negotiable
property which could be purchased by any passer-by who had a few more nuggets in
his possession than his neighbour; and, perhaps, because of his knowledge of the
piteous history of this former belle of Monterey he put a little more
consideration into the voice that said:

“All right, Nina, we’ll get down to business. What have you to say to us?”

By this time Nina’s passionate anger had burned itself out. In anticipation,
perhaps, of what she was about to do, she looked straight ahead of her into
space. It was not because she was assailed by some transient emotion to forswear
her treacherous desire for vengeance; she had no illusion of that kind. Too
vividly she recalled the road agent’s indifferent manner at their last interview
for any feeling to dwell in her heart other than hatred. It was that she was
summoning to appear a vision scarcely less attractive, however pregnant with
tragedy, than that of seeing herself avenged: a gay, extravagant career in
Mexico or Spain which the reward would procure for her. That was what she was
seeing, and with a pious wish for its confirmation she began to make herself a
fresh cigarette, rolling it dexterously with her white, delicate fingers, and
not until her task was accomplished and her full, red lips were sending forth
tiny clouds of smoke did she announce:

“Ramerrez was in Cloudy Mountain to-night.”

But however much of a surprise this assertion was to both men, neither gave vent
to an exclamation. Instead Rance regarded his elegantly booted feet; Ashby
looked hard at the woman as if he would read the truth in her eyes; while as for
Nina, she continued to puff away at her little cigarette after the manner of one
that has appealed not in vain to the magic power which can paint out the past
and fill the blank with the most beautiful of dreams. The Wells Fargo man was
the first to make any comment; he asked:

“You know this?” And then as she surveyed them through a scented cloud and bowed
her head, he added: “How do you know it?”

“That I shall not tell you,” replied the woman, firmly. Ashby made an impatient
movement towards her with the question:

“Where was he?”

“Oh, come, Ashby!” put in Rance, speaking for the first time. “She’s putting up
a game on us.”

In a flash Nina wheeled around and with eyes that blazed advanced to the table
where the Sheriff was sitting. Indeed, there was something so tigerish about the
woman that the Sheriff, in alarm, quickly pushed back his chair. “I am not
lying, Jack Rance.” There was an evil glitter in her eye as she watched a
sarcastic smile playing around his lips. “Oh, yes, I know you--you are the
Sheriff,” and so saying a peal of contemptuous merriment burst from her, “and
Ramerrez was in the camp not less than two hours ago.”

Ashby could hardly restrain his excitement. “And you saw him?” came from him.
“Yes,” was her answer. Both men sprang to their feet; it was impossible to doubt
any longer that she spoke the truth. “What’s his game?” demanded Rance. The
woman answered his question with a question. “How about the reward, Señor
Ashby?”

“You needn’t worry about that--I’ll see that you get what’s coming to you,”
replied the Wells Fargo Agent already getting into his coat. “But how are we to
know?” inquired Rance, likewise getting ready to leave. “Is he an American or a
Mexican?”

“To-night he’s an American, that is, he’s dressed and looks like one. But the
reward--you swear you’re playing fair?”

“On my honour,” Ashby assured her. The woman’s face stood clear--cruelly clear
in the light of the kerosene lamp above her head. About her mouth and eyes there
was a repellent expression. Her mind, still working vividly, was reviewing the
past; and a bitter memory prompted the words which were said however with a
smile that was still seductive:

“Try to recall, Señor Ashby, what strangers were in The Polka to-night?”

At these ominous words the men started and regarded each other questioningly.
Their keen and trained intelligences were greatly distressed at being so utterly
in the dark. For an instant, it is true, the thought of the greaser that Ashby
had brought in rose uppermost in their minds, but only to be dismissed quickly
when they recalled the woman’s words concerning the way that the road agent was
dressed. A moment more, however, and a strange thought had fastened itself on
one of their active minds--a thought which, although persisting in forcing
itself upon the Sheriff’s consideration, was in the end rejected as wholly
improbable. But who was it then? In his intensity Rance let his cigar go out.
“Ah!” at last he cried. “Johnson, by the eternal!”

“Johnson?” echoed Ashby, wholly at sea and surprised at the look of
corroboration in Nina’s eyes. “Yes, Johnson,” went on Rance, insistently. Why
had he not seen at once that it was Johnson who was the road agent! There could
be no mistake! “You weren’t there,” he explained hurriedly, “when he came in and
began flirting with the Girl and--”

“Ramerrez making love to the Girl?” broke in Ashby. “Ye Gods!”

“The Girl? So that’s the woman he’s after now!” Nina laughed bitterly. “Well,
she’s not destined to have him for long, I can tell you!” And with that she
reached out for the bottle on the table and poured herself a small glass of
whisky and swallowed it. When she turned her lips were tightly shut over her
brilliant teeth, a thousand thoughts came rushing into her brain. There was no
longer any compunction--she would strike now and deep. Through her efforts alone
the man would be captured, and she gloried in the thought. “Here--here is
something that will interest you!” she said; and putting her hand in her bosom
drew out a soiled, faded photograph. “There--that will settle him for good and
all! Never again will he boast of trifling with Nina Micheltoreña--with me, a
Micheltoreña in whose veins runs the best and proudest blood of California!”

Ashby fairly snatched the photograph out of her hand and, after one look at it,
passed it over to the Sheriff. “Good of him, isn’t it?” sneered Nina; and then
seemingly trying by her very vehemence to impress upon herself the impossibility
of his ever being anything but an episode in her life, she added: “I hate him!”

The picture was indeed an excellent one. It represented Ramerrez in the gorgeous
dress of a _caballero_--and the outlaw was a fine specimen of that spectacular
class of men. But Rance studied the photograph only long enough to be sure that
no mistake was possible. With a quick movement he put it away in his pocket and
looked long and hard at the figure of the degraded woman standing before him and
revelling in her treachery. In that time he forgot that anyone had ever
entertained a kind thought about her; he forgot that she once was respected as
well as admired; he was conscious only of regarding her with a far deeper
disgust and repugnance than he held towards others much her inferior in birth
and education. But, presently, his face grew a shade whiter, if that were
possible, and he cursed himself for not having thought of the danger to which
the Girl might even now be exposed. In less than a minute, therefore, both men
stood ready for the work before them. But on the threshold just before going out
into the fierce storm that had burst during the last few minutes, he paused and
called back:

“You Mexican devil! If any harm comes to the Girl, I’ll strangle you with my own
hands!” And not waiting to hear the woman’s mocking laughter he passed out,
followed by Ashby, into the storm. X

In the still black night and with no guide other than the dimly-lighted lantern
which she carried, the Girl had started for home--a bit of shelter in the middle
of a great silence, a little fortress in the wilderness, as it were, with its
barred doors and windows--on the top of Cloudy Mountain. To be sure, it was not
the first time that she had followed the trail alone: Day and night, night and
day, for as long, almost, as she could remember, she had been doing it; indeed,
she had watched the alders, oaks and dwarf pines, that bordered the trail, grow
year by year as she herself had grown, until now the whispering of the
mountain’s night winds spoke a language as familiar as her own; but never before
had she climbed up into the clean, wide, free sweep of this unbounded horizon,
the very air untainted and limitless as the sky itself, with so keen and
uncloying a pleasure. But there was a new significance attached to her home-
coming to-night: was she not to entertain there her first real visitor? At the
threshold of her cabin the Girl, her cheeks aglow and eyes as bright, almost, as
the red cape that enveloped her lithe, girlish figure, paused, and swinging her
lantern high above her head so that its light was reflected in the room, she
endeavoured to imagine what would be the impression that a stranger would
receive coming suddenly upon these surroundings. And well might she have paused,
for no eye ever rested upon a more conglomerate ensemble! Yet, withal, there was
a certain attractiveness about this log-built, low, square room, half-papered
with gaudy paper--the supply, evidently, having fallen short,--that was as
unexpected as it was unusual. Upon the floor, which had a covering of corn
sacks, were many beautiful bear and wolf skins, Indian rugs and Navajo blankets;
while overhead--screening some old trunks and boxes neatly piled up high in the
loft, which was reached by a ladder, generally swung out of the way--hung a
faded, woollen blanket; from the opposite corner there fell an old, patchwork,
silk quilt. Dainty white curtains in all their crispness were at the windows,
and upon the walls were many rare and weird trophies of the chase, not to
mention the innumerable pictures that had been taken from “Godey’s Lady Book”
and other periodicals of that time. A little book-shelf, that had been fashioned
out of a box, was filled with old and well-read books; while the mantel that
guarded the fireplace was ornamented with various small articles, conspicuous
among which were a clock that beat loud, automatic time with a brassy resonance,
a china dog and cat of most gaudy colours, a whisky bottle and two tumblers, and
some winter berries in a jar. There were two pieces of furniture in the room,
however, which were placed with an eye to attract attention, and these the Girl
prized most highly: one was a homemade rocking-chair that had been made out of a
barrel and had been dyed, unsuccessfully, with indigo blue, and had across its
back a knitted tidy with a large, upstanding, satin bow; the other was a
homemade, pine wardrobe that had been rudely decorated by one of the boys of the
camp and in which the Girl kept her dresses, and was piled up high towards the
ceiling with souvenirs of her trip to Monterey, including the hat-boxes and
wicker basket that had come well nigh to loading down the stage on that
memorable journey. But it was upon her bed and bedroom fixings that the greatest
attempt at decoration had been made; partitioning off the room, as it were, and
at the same time forming a canopy about the bed, were curtains of cheap, gaudy
material, through the partings of which there was to be had a glimpse of a
daintily-made-up bed, whose pillows were made conspicuous by the hand-made lace
that trimmed their slips, as was the bureau-cover, and upon which, in charming
disarray, were various articles generally included in a woman’s toilet, not to
mention the numberless strings of coloured beads and other bits of feminine
adornment. A table standing in the centre of the room was covered with a small,
white cloth, while falling in folds from beneath this was a faded, red cotton
cover. The table was laid for one, the charlotte “rusks” and “lemming” turnover
--each on a separate plate--which Nick had been commissioned to procure, earlier
in the evening, from the Palmetto restaurant, looming up prominently in the
centre; and on another plate were some chipped beef and biscuits. A large lamp
was suspended from the ceiling in the centre of the room and was quaintly, if
not grotesquely, shaded; while other lamps flanked by composition metal
reflectors concentrated light upon the Girl’s bureau, the book-shelf and mantel,
leaving the remainder of the room in variant shadow. All in all, what with the
fire that was burning cheerily in the grate and the strong odour of steaming
coffee, the room had a soft glow and homelike air that was most inviting. In
that brief moment that the Girl stood in the doorway reviewing her possessions,
a multitude of expressions drifted across her countenance, a multitude of
possibilities thrilled within her bosom. But however much she would have liked
to analyse these strange feelings, she resisted the inclination and gave all her
attention to the amusing scene that was being enacted before her eyes. For some
time Billy Jackrabbit had been standing by the table looking greedily down upon
the charlotte russes there. He was on the point of putting his finger through
the centre of one of them when Wowkle--the Indian woman-of-all-work of the
cabin, who sat upon the floor before the fire singing a lullaby to the papoose
strapped to its cradle on her back--turning suddenly her gaze in his direction,
was just in time to prevent him. “Charlotte rusk--Palmetto rest’rant--not take,”
were her warning words. Jackrabbit drew himself up quickly, but he was furious
at interference from a source where it was wholly unexpected. “Hm--me honest,”
he growled fiercely, flashing her a malignant look. “Huh?” was Wowkle’s
monosyllabic observation delivered in a guttural tone. All of a sudden,
Jackrabbit’s gaze was arrested by a piece of paper which lay upon the floor and
in which had been wrapped the charlotte russes; he went over to it quickly,
picked it up, opened it and proceeded to collect on his finger the cream that
had adhered to it. “Huh!” he growled delightedly, holding up his finger for
Wowkle’s inspection. The next instant, however, he slumped down beside her upon
the floor, where both the man and the woman sat in silence gazing into the fire.
The man was the first to speak. “Send me up--Polka. Say, p’haps me marry you--
huh?” he said, coming to the point bluntly. Wowkle’s eyes were glued to the
fire; she answered dully:

“Me don’t know.”

There was a silence, and then:

“Me don’t know,” observed Jackrabbit thoughtfully. A moment later, however, he
added: “Me marry you--how much me get give fatha--huh?”

Wowkle raised her narrowing eyes to his and told him with absolute indifference:

“Huh--me don’t know.”

Jackrabbit’s face darkened. He pondered for a long time. “Me don’t know--”
suddenly he began and then stopped. They had been silent for some moments, when
at last he ventured: “Me give fatha four dolla”--and here he indicated the
number with his two hands, the finger with the cream locking those of the other
hand--“and one blanket.”

Wowkle’s eyes dilated. “Better keep blanket--baby cold,” was her ambiguous
answer. Whereupon Jackrabbit emitted a low growl. Presently he handed her his
pipe, and while she puffed steadily away he fondled caressingly the string of
beads which she wore around her neck. “You sing for get those?” he asked. “Me
sing,” she replied dully, beginning almost instantly in soft, nasal tones:

“_My days are as um grass_”--

Jackrabbit’s face cleared. “Huh!” he growled in rejoicement. Immediately Wowkle
edged up close to him and together they continued in chorus:

“_Or as um faded flo’r,      Um wintry winds sweep o’er um plain,      We pe’ish
in um ho’r._”

“But Gar,” said the man when the song was ended, at the same time taking his
pipe away from her, “to-morrow we go missionary--sing like hell--get whisky.”

But as Wowkle made no answer, once more a silence fell upon them. “We pe’ish in
um ho’r,” suddenly repeated Jackrabbit, half-singing, half-speaking the words,
and rising quickly started for the door. At the table, however, he halted and
inquired: “All right--go missionary to-morrow--get marry--huh?”

Wowkle hesitated, then rose, and finally started slowly towards him. Half-way
over she stopped and reminded him in a most apathetic manner:

“P’haps me not stay marry to you for long.”

“Huh--seven monse?” queried Jackrabbit in the same tone. “Six monse,” came
laconically from the woman. In nowise disconcerted by her answer, the Indian now
asked:

“You come soon?”

Wowkle thought a moment; then suddenly edging up close to him she promised to
come to him after the Girl had had her supper. “Huh!” fairly roared the Indian,
his coal-black eyes glowing as he looked at her. It was at this juncture that
the Girl, after hanging up her lantern on a peg on the outer door, broke in
unexpectedly upon the strange pair of lovers. Dumbfounded, the woman and the man
stood gaping at her. Wowkle was the first to regain her composure, and bending
over the table she turned up the light. “Hello, Billy Jackrabbit!” greeted the
Girl, breezily. “Fixed it?”

“Me fix,” he grunted. “That’s good! Now git!” ordered the Girl in the same happy
tone that had characterised her greeting. Slowly, stealthily, Jackrabbit left
the cabin, the two women, though for different reasons, watching him go until
the door had closed behind him. “Now, Wowkle,” said the Girl, turning to her
with a smile, “it’s for two to-night.”

Wowkle’s eyelashes twinkled up inquisitorially. “Huh?”

“Yep.”

Wowkle’s eyes narrowed to pin-points. “Come anotha? Never before come anotha,”
was her significant comment. “Never you mind.” The Girl voiced the reprimand
without the twitching of an eyelid; and then as she hung up her cape upon the
wardrobe, she added: “Pick up the room, Wowkle!”

The big-hipped, full-bosomed woman did not move but stood in all her stolidness
gazing at her mistress like one in a dream; whereupon the Girl, exasperated
beyond measure at the other’s placidity, rushed over to her and shook her so
violently that she finally awakened to the importance of her mistress’ request.
“He’s comin’ now, now; he’s comin’!” the Girl was saying, when suddenly her eyes
were attracted to a pair of stockings hanging upon the wall; quickly she
released her hold on the woman and with a hop, skip and a jump they were down
and hid away in her bureau drawer. “My roses--what did you do with them,
Wowkle?” she asked a trifle impatiently as she fumbled in the drawer. “Ugh!”
grunted Wowkle, and pointed to a corner of the bureau top. “Good!” cried the
Girl, delightedly, as she spied them. The next instant she was busily engaged in
arranging them in her hair, pausing only to take a pistol out of her pocket,
which she laid on the edge of the bureau. “No offence, Wowkle,” she went on
thoughtfully, a moment later, “but I want you to put your best foot forward when
you’re waitin’ on table to-night. This here company o’ mine’s a man o’ idees.
Oh, he knows everythin’! Sort of a damme style.”

Wowkle gave no sign of having heard her mistress’ words, but kept right on
tidying the room. Now she went over to the cupboard and took down two cups,
which she placed on the fireplace base. It was while she was in the act of
laying down the last one that the Girl broke in suddenly upon her thoughts with:

“Say, Wowkle, did Billy Jackrabbit really propose to you?”

“Yep--get marry,” spoke up Jackrabbit’s promised wife without looking up. For
some moments the Girl continued to fumble among her possessions in the bureau
drawer; at last she brought forth an orange-coloured satin ribbon, which she
placed in the Indian woman’s hands with her prettiest smile, saying:

“Here, Wowkle, you can have that to fix up for the weddin’.”

Wowkle’s eyes glowed with appreciation. “Huh!” she ejaculated, and proceeded to
wind the ribbon about the beads around her neck. Turning once more to the
bureau, the Girl took out a small parcel done up in tissue paper and began to
unwrap it. “I’m goin’ to put on them, if I can git ’em on,” she said, displaying
a pair of white satin slippers. The next instant she had plumped herself down
upon the floor and was trying to encase her feet in a pair of slippers which
were much too small for them. “Remember what fun I made o’ you when you took up
with Billy Jackrabbit?” suddenly she asked with a happy little smile. “What for?
sez I. Well, p’r’aps you was right. P’r’aps it’s nice to have someone you really
care for--who belongs to you. P’r’aps they ain’t so much in the saloon business
for a woman after all, and you don’t know what livin’ really is until--” She
stopped abruptly and threw upon the floor the slipper that refused to give to
her foot. “Oh, Wowkle,” she went on, taking up the other slipper, “it’s nice to
have someone you can talk to, someone you can turn your heart inside out to.”

At last she had succeeded in getting into one slipper and, rising, tried to
stand in it; but it hurt her so frightfully that she immediately sank down upon
the floor and proceeded to pat and rub and coddle her foot to ease the pain. It
was while she was thus engaged that a knock came upon her cabin door. “Oh, Lord,
here he is!” she cried, panic-stricken, and began to drag herself hurriedly
across the room with the intention of concealing herself behind the curtain at
the foot of the bed; while Wowkle, with unusual celerity, made for the
fireplace, where she stood with her back to the door, gazing into the fire. The
Girl had only gotten half-way across the room, however, when a voice assailed
her ears. “Miss, Miss, kin I--” came in low, subdued tones. “What? The Sidney
Duck?” she cried, turning and seeing his head poked through the window. “Beg
pardon, Miss; I know men ain’t lowed up here nohow,” humbly apologised that
individual; “but, but--”

Vexed and flustered, the Girl turned upon him a trifle irritably with:

“Git! Git, I tell you!”

“But I’m in grite trouble, Miss,” began The Sidney Duck, tearfully. “The boys
are back--they missed that road agent Ramerrez and now they’re taking it out of
me. If--if you’d only speak a word for me, Miss.”

“No--” began the Girl, and stopped. The next instant she ordered Wowkle to shut
the window. “Oh, don’t be ’ard on me, Miss,” whimpered the man. The Girl flashed
him a scornful look. “Now, look here, Sidney Duck, there’s one kind o’ man I
can’t stand, an’ that’s a cheat an’ a thief, an’ you’re it,” said the Girl,
laying great stress upon her words. “You’re no better’n that road agent
Ramerrez, an’--”

“But, Miss--” interrupted the man. “Miss nothin’!” snapped back the Girl,
tugging away at the slippers; in desperation once more she ordered:

“Wowkle, close the winder! Close the winder!”

The Sidney Duck glowered at her. He had expected her intercession on his behalf
and could not understand this new attitude of hers toward him. “Public ’ouse
jide!” he retorted furiously, and slammed the window. “Ugh!” snarled Wowkle,
resentfully, her eyes full of fire. Now at any other time, The Sidney Duck would
have been made to pay dearly for his words, but either the Girl did not hear
him, or if she did she was too engrossed to heed them; at any rate, the remark
passed unnoticed. “I got it on!” presently exclaimed the Girl in great joy.
Nevertheless, it was not without several ouches and moans that, finally, she
stood upon her feet. “Say, Wowkle, how do you think he’ll like ’em? How do they
look? They feel awful!” she rattled on with a pained look on her face. But
whatever would have been the Indian woman’s observation on the subject of tight
shoes in general and those of her mistress in particular, she was not permitted
to make it, for the Girl, now hobbling over towards the bureau, went on to
announce with sudden determination:

“Say, Wowkle, I’m a-goin’ the whole hog! Yes, I’m a-goin’ the whole hog,” she
repeated a moment later, as she drew forth various bits of finery from a chest
of drawers, with which she proceeded to adorn herself before the mirror. Taking
out first a lace shawl of bold design, she drew it over her shoulders with the
grace and ease of one who makes it an everyday affair rather than an occasional
undertaking; then she took from a sweetgrass basket a vividly-embroidered
handkerchief and saturated it with cologne, impregnating the whole room with its
strong odour; finally she brought forth a pair of long, white gloves and began
to stretch them on. “Does it look like an effort, Wowkle?” she asked, trying to
get her hands into them. “Ugh!” was the Indian woman’s comment at the very
moment that a knock came upon the door. “Two plates,” she added with a groan,
and started for the cupboard. Meanwhile the Girl continued with her primping and
preening, her hands flying back and forth like an automaton from her waist-line
to her stockings. Suddenly another knock, this time more vigorous, more
insistent, came upon the rough boards of the cabin door, which, finally, was
answered by the Girl herself. XI

“Hello!” sang out Johnson, genially, as he entered the Girl’s cabin. At once the
Girl’s audacity and spirit deserted her, and hanging her head she answered
meekly, bashfully:

“Hello!”

The man’s eyes swept the Girl’s figure; he looked puzzled, and asked:

“Are you--you going out?”

The Girl was plainly embarrassed; she stammered in reply:

“Yes--no--I don’t know--Oh, come on in!”

“Thank you,” said Johnson in his best manner, and put down his lantern on the
table. Turning now with a look of admiration in his eyes, at the same time
trying to embrace her, he went on: “Oh, Girl, I’m so glad you let me come....”

His glance, his tone, his familiarity sent the colour flying to the Girl’s
cheeks; she flared up instantly, her blue eyes snapping with resentment:

“You stop where you are, Mr. Johnson.”

“Ugh!” came from Wowkle, at that moment closing the door which Johnson had left
ajar. At the sound of the woman’s voice Johnson wheeled round quickly. And then,
to his great surprise, he saw that the Girl was not alone as he had expected to
find her. “I beg your pardon; I did not see anyone when I came in,” he said in
humble apology, his eyes the while upon Wowkle who, having blown out the candle
and removed the lantern from the table to the floor, was directing her footsteps
towards the cupboard, into which she presently disappeared, closing the door
behind her. “But seeing you standing there,” went on Johnson in explanation,
“and looking into your lovely eyes, well, the temptation to take you in my arms
was so great that I, well, I took--”

“You must be in the habit o’ takin’ things, Mr. Johnson,” broke in the Girl. “I
seen you on the road to Monterey, goin’ an’ comin’, an’ passed a few words with
you; I seen you once since, but that don’t give you no excuse to begin this sort
o’ game.” The Girl’s tone was one of reproach rather than of annoyance, and for
the moment the young man was left with a sense of having committed an
indiscretion. Silently, sheepishly, he moved away, while she quietly went over
to the fire. “Besides, you might have prospected a bit first anyway,” presently
she went on, watching the tips of her slender white fingers held out transparent
towards the fire. Just at that moment a log dropped, turning up its glowing
underside. Wheeling round with a smile, Johnson said:

“I see how wrong I was.”

And then, seeing that the Girl made no move in his direction, he asked, still
smiling:

“May I take off my coat?”

The Girl remained silent, which silence he interpreted as an assent, and went on
to make himself at home. “Thank you,” he said simply. “What a bully little place
you have here! It’s awfully snug!” he continued delightedly, as his eyes
wandered about the room. “And to think that I’ve found you again when I--Oh, the
luck of it!”

He went over to her and held out his hands, a broad, yet kindly smile lighting
up his strong features, making him appear handsomer, even, than he really was,
to the Girl taking in the olive-coloured skin glowing with healthful pallor.
“Friends?” he asked. Nevertheless the girl did not give him her hand, but
quickly drew it away; she answered his question with a question:

“Are you sorry?”

“No, I’m not sorry.”

To this she made no reply but quietly, disappointedly returned to the fireplace,
where she stood in contemplative silence, waiting for his next words. But he did
not speak; he contented himself with gazing at the tender girlishness of her,
the blue-black eyes, and flesh that was so bright and pure that he knew it to be
soft and firm, making him yearn for her. Involuntarily she turned towards him,
and she saw that in his face which caused her eyes to drop and her breath to
come more quickly. “That damme style just catches a woman!” she ejaculated with
a little tremour in her voice. Then her mood underwent a sudden change in marked
contrast to that of the moment before. “Look here, Mr. Johnson,” she said, “down
at the saloon to-night you said you always got what you wanted. O’ course I’ve
got to admire you for that. I reckon women always do admire men for gettin’ what
they want. But if huggin’ me’s included, jest count it out.”

For a breathing space there was a dead silence. “That was a lovely day, Girl, on
the road to Monterey, wasn’t it?” of a sudden Johnson observed dreamily. The
Girl’s eyes opened upon him wonderingly. “Was it?”

“Well, wasn’t it?”

The Girl thought it was and she laughed. “Say, take a chair and set down for a
while, won’t you?” was her next remark, she herself taking a chair at the table.
“Thanks,” he said, coming slowly towards her while his eyes wandered about the
room for a chair. “Say, look ’ere!” she shot out, scrutinising him closely; “I
ben thinkin’ you didn’t come to the saloon to see me to-night. What brought
you?”

“It was Fate,” he told her, leaning over the table and looking down upon her
admiringly. She pondered his answer for a moment, then blurted out:

“You’re a bluff! It may have been Fate, but I tho’t you looked kind o’ funny
when Rance asked you if you hadn’t missed the trail an’ wa’n’t on the road to
see Nina Micheltoreña--she that lives in the greaser settlement an’ has the name
o’ shelterin’ thieves.”

At the mention of thieves, Johnson paled frightfully and the knife which he had
been toying with dropped to the floor. “Was it Fate or the back trail?” again
queried the Girl. “It was Fate,” calmly reiterated the man, and looked her
fairly in the eye. The cloud disappeared from the Girl’s face. “Serve the
coffee, Wowkle!” she called almost instantly. And then it was that she saw that
no chair had been placed at the table for him. She sprang to her feet,
exclaiming: “Oh, Lordy, you ain’t got no chair yet to--”

“Careful, please, careful,” quickly warned Johnson, as she rounded the corner of
the table upon which his guns lay. But fear was not one of the Girl’s emotions.
At the display of guns that met her gaze she merely shrugged and inquired
placidly:

“Oh, how many guns do you carry?”

Not unnaturally she waited for his answer before starting in quest of a chair
for him; but instead Johnson quietly went over to the chair near the door where
his coat lay, hung it up on the peg with his hat, and returning now with a
chair, he answered:

“Oh, several when travelling through the country.”

“Well, set down,” said the Girl bluntly, and hurried to his side to adjust his
chair. But she did not return to her place at the table; instead, she took the
barrel rocker near the fireplace and began to rock nervously to and fro. In
silence Johnson sat studying her, looking her through and through, as it were.
“It must be strange living all alone way up here in the mountains,” he remarked,
breaking the spell of silence. “Isn’t it lonely?”

“Lonely? Mountains lonely?” The Girl’s laugh rang out clearly. “Besides,” she
went on, her eyes fairly dancing with excitement, “I got a little pinto an’ I’m
all over the country on ’im. Finest little horse you ever saw! If I want to I
can ride right down into the summer at the foothills with miles o’ Injun pinks
jest a-laffin’ an’ tiger lilies as mad as blazes. There’s a river there, too--
the Injuns call it a water-road--an’ I can git on that an’ drift an’ drift an’
smell the wild syringa on the banks. An if I git tired o’ that I can turn my
horse up-grade an’ gallop right into the winter an’ the lonely pines an’ firs
a-whisperin’ an’ a-sighin.’ Lonely? Mountains lonely, did you say? Oh, my
mountains, my beautiful peaks, my Sierras! God’s in the air here, sure! You can
see Him layin’ peaceful hands on the mountain tops. He seems so near you want to
let your soul go right on up.”

Johnson was touched at the depth of meaning in her words; he nodded his head in
appreciation. “I see, when you die you won’t have far to go,” he quietly
observed. Minutes passed before either spoke. Then all at once the Girl rose and
took the chair facing his, the table between them as at first. “Wowkle, serve
the coffee!” again she called. Immediately, Wowkle emerged from the cupboard,
took the coffee-pot from the fire and filled the cups that had been kept warm on
the fireplace base, and after placing a cup beside each plate she squatted down
before the fire in watchful silence. “But when it’s very cold up here, cold, and
it snows?” queried Johnson, his admiration for the plucky, quaint little figure
before him growing by leaps and bounds. “Oh, the boys come up an’ digs me out o’
my front door like--like--” She paused, her sunny laugh rippling out at the
recollection of it all, and Johnson noted the two delightful dimples in her
rounded cheeks. Indeed, she had never appeared prettier to him than when
displaying her two rows of perfect, dazzling teeth, which was the case every
time that she laughed. “--like a little rabbit, eh?” he supplemented, joining in
the laugh. She nodded eagerly. “I get digged out near every day when the mine’s
shet down an’ Academy opens,” went on the Girl in the same happy strain, her big
blue eyes dancing with merriment. Johnson looked at her wonderingly; he
questioned. “Academy? Here? Why, who teaches in your Academy?”

“Me--I’m her--I’m teacher,” she told him with not a little show of pride. With
difficulty Johnson suppressed a smile; nevertheless he observed soberly:

“Oh, so you’re the teacher?”

“Yep--I learn m’self an’ the boys at the same time,” she hastened to explain,
and dropped a heaping teaspoon of coarse brown sugar into his cup. “But o’
course Academy’s suspended when ther’s a blizzard on ’cause no girl could git
down the mountain then.”

“Is it so very severe here when there’s a blizzard on?” Johnson was saying, when
there came to his ears a strange sound--the sound of the wind rising in the
canyon below. The Girl looked at him in blank astonishment--a look that might
easily have been interpreted as saying, “Where do you hail from?” She answered:

“Is it...? Oh, Lordy, they come in a minute! All of a sudden you don’t know
where you are--it’s awful!”

“Not many women--” digressed the man, glancing apprehensively towards the door,
but she cut him short swiftly with the ejaculation:

“Bosh!” And picking up a plate she raised it high in the air the better to show
off its contents. “Charlotte rusks an’ lemming turnover!” she announced,
searching his face for some sign of joy, her own face lighting up perceptibly.
“Well, this is a treat!” cried out Johnson between sips of coffee. “Have one?”

“You bet!” he returned with unmistakable pleasure in his voice. The Girl served
him with one of each, and when he thanked her she beamed with happiness. “Let me
send you some little souvenir of to-night”--he said, a little while later, his
admiring eyes settled on her hair of burnished gold which glistened when the
light fell upon it--“something that you’d just love to read in your course of
teaching at the Academy.” He paused to search his mind for something suitable to
suggest to her; at length he questioned: “Now, what have you been reading
lately?”

The Girl’s face broke into smiles as she answered:

“Oh, it’s an awful funny book about a kepple. He was a classic an’ his name was
Dent.”

Johnson knitted his brows and thought a moment. “He was a classic, you say, and
his name was--Oh, yes, I know--Dante,” he declared, with difficulty controlling
the laughter that well-nigh convulsed him. “And you found Dante funny, did you?”

“Funny? I roared!” acknowledged the Girl with a frankness that was so genuine
that Johnson could not help but admire her all the more. “You see, he loved a
lady--” resumed the Girl, toying idly with her spoon. “--Beatrice,” supplemented
Johnson, pronouncing the name with the Italian accent which, by the way, was not
lost on the Girl. “How?” she asked quickly, with eyes wide open. Johnson ignored
the question. Anxious to hear her interpretation of the story, he requested her
to continue. “He loved a lady--” began the Girl, and broke off short. And going
over to the book-shelf she took down a volume and began to finger the leaves
absently. Presently she came back, and fixing her eyes upon him, she went on:
“It made me think of it, what you said down to the saloon to-night about livin’
so you didn’t care what come after. Well, he made up his min’, this Dent--Dantes
--that one hour o’ happiness with her was worth the whole da--” She checked the
word on her tongue, and concluded: “outfit that come after. He was willin’ to
sell out his chances for sixty minutes with ’er. Well, I jest put the book down
an’ hollered.” And once more she broke into a hearty laugh. “Of course you did,”
agreed Johnson, joining in the laugh. “All the same,” he presently added, “you
knew he was right.”

“I didn’t!” she contradicted with spirit, and slowly went back to the book-shelf
with the book. “You did.”

“Didn’t!”

“You did.”

“Didn’t! Didn’t!”

“I don’t--”

“You do, you do,” insisted the Girl, plumping down into the chair which she had
vacated at the table. “Do you mean to say--” Johnson got no further, for the
Girl, with a naïveté that made her positively bewitching to the man before her,
went on as if there had been no interruption:

“That a feller could so wind h’ms’lf up as to say, ‘Jest give me one hour o’
your sassiety; time ain’t nothin’, nothin’ ain’t nothin’ only to be a da--darn
fool over you!’ Ain’t it funny to feel like that?” And then, before Johnson
could frame an answer: “Yet, I s’pose there are people that love into the grave
an’ into death an’ after.” The Girl’s voice lowered, stopped. Then, looking
straight ahead of her, her eyes glistening, she broke out with: “Golly, it jest
lifts you right up by your bootstraps to think of it, don’t it?”

Johnson was not smiling now, but sat gazing intently at her through half-veiled
lids. “It does have that effect,” he answered, the wonder of it all creeping
into his voice. “Yet, p’r’aps he was ahead o’ the game. P’r’aps--” She did not
finish the sentence, but broke out with fresh enthusiasm: “Oh, say, I jest love
this conversation with you! I love to hear you talk! You give me idees!”

Johnson’s heart was too full for utterance; he could only think of his own
happiness. The next instant the Girl called to Wowkle to bring the candle, while
she, still eager and animated, her eyes bright, her lips curving in a smile,
took up a cigar and handed it to him, saying:

“One o’ your real Havanas!”

“But I”--began Johnson, protestingly. Nevertheless the Girl lit a match for him
from the candle which Wowkle held up to her, and, while the latter returned the
candle to the mantel, Johnson lighted his cigar from the burning match between
her fingers. “Oh, Girl, how I’d love to know you!” he suddenly cried with the
fire of love in his eyes. “But you do know me,” was her answer, as she watched
the smoke from his cigar curl upwards toward the ceiling. “Not well enough,” he
sighed. For a brief second only she was silent. Whether she read his thoughts it
would be difficult to say; but there came a moment soon when she could not
mistake them. “What’s your drift, anyway?” she asked, looking him full in the
face. “To know you as Dante knew the lady--‘One hour for me, one hour worth the
world,’” he told her, all the while watching and loving her beauty. At the
thought she trembled a little, though she answered with characteristic
bluntness:

“He didn’t git it, Mr. Johnson.”

“All the same there are women we could die for,” insisted Johnson, dreamily. The
Girl was in the act of carrying her cup to her mouth but put it down on the
table. Leaning forward, she inquired somewhat sneeringly:

“Mr. Johnson, how many times have you died?”

Johnson did not have to think twice before answering. With wide, truthful eyes
he said:

“That day on the road to Monterey I said just that one woman for me. I wanted to
kiss you then,” he added, taking her hand in his. And, strange to say, she was
not angry, not unwilling, but sweetly tender and modest as she let it lay there.
“But, Mr. Johnson, some men think so much o’ kisses that they don’t want a
second kiss from the same girl,” spoke up the Girl after a moment’s reflection.
“Doesn’t that depend on whether they love her or not? Now all loves are not
alike,” reasoned the man in all truthfulness. “No, but they all have the same
aim--to git ’er if they can,” contended the Girl, gently withdrawing her hand.
Silence filled the room. “Ah, I see you don’t know what love is,” at length
sighed Johnson, watching the colour come and go from her face. The Girl
hesitated, then answered in a confused, uneven voice:

“Nope. Mother used to say, ‘It’s a tickling sensation at the heart that you
can’t scratch,’ an’ we’ll let it go at that.”

“Oh, Girl, you’re bully!” laughed the man, rising, and making an attempt to
embrace her. But all of a sudden he stopped and stood with a bewildered look
upon his face: a fierce gale was sweeping the mountain. It filtered in through
the crevices of the walls and doors; the lights flickered; the curtains swayed;
and the cabin itself rocked uncertainly until it seemed as if it would be
uprooted. It was all over in a minute. In fact, the wind had died away almost
simultaneously with the Girl’s loud cry of “Wowkle, hist the winder!”

It is not to be wondered at, however, that Johnson looked apprehensively about
him with every fresh impulse of the gale. The Girl’s description of the storms
on the mountain was fresh in his mind, and there was also good and sufficient
reason why he should not be caught in a blizzard on the top of Cloudy Mountain!
Nevertheless, as before, the calm look which he saw on the Girl’s face reassured
him. Advancing once more towards her, he stretched out his arms as if to gather
her in them. “Look out, you’ll muss my roses!” she cried, waving him back and
dodging Wowkle who, having cleared the table, was now making her last trip to
the cupboard. “Well, hadn’t you better take them off then?” suggested Johnson,
still following her up. “Give a man an inch an’ he’ll be at Sank Hosey before
you know it!” she flung at him over her shoulder, and made straightway for the
bureau. But although Johnson desisted, he kept his eyes upon her as she took the
roses from her hair, losing none of the picture that she made with the light
beating and playing upon her glimmering eyes, her rosy cheeks and her parted
lips. “Is there--is there anyone else?” he inquired falteringly, half-fearful
lest there was. “A man always says, ‘who was the first one?’ but the girl says,
‘who’ll be the next one?’” she returned, as she carefully laid the roses in her
bureau drawer. “But the time comes when there never will be a next one.”

“No?”

“No.”

“I’d hate to stake my pile on that,” observed the Girl, drily. She blew up each
glove as it came off and likewise carefully laid them away in the bureau drawer.
By this time Wowkle’s soft tread had ceased, her duties for the night were over,
and she stood at the table waiting to be dismissed. “Wowkle, git to your
wigwam!” suddenly ordered her mistress, watching her until she disappeared into
the cupboard; but she did not see the Indian woman’s lips draw back in a half-
grin as she closed the door behind her. “Oh, you’re sending her away! Must I go,
too?” asked Johnson, dismally. “No--not jest yet; you can stay a--a hour or two
longer,” the Girl informed him with a smile; and turning once more to the bureau
she busied herself there for a few minutes longer. Johnson’s joy knew no bounds;
he burst out delightedly:

“Why, I’m like Dante! I want the world in that hour, because, you see, I’m
afraid the door of this little paradise might be shut to me after--Let’s say
this is my one hour--the hour that gave me--that kiss I want.”

“Go long! You go to grass!” returned the Girl with a nervous little laugh.
Johnson made one more effort and won out; that is, he succeeded, at last, in
getting her in his grasp. “Listen,” said the determined lover, pleading for a
kiss as he would have pleaded for his very life. It was at this juncture that
Wowkle, silently, stealthily, emerged from the cupboard and made her way over to
the door. Her feet were heavily moccasined and she was blanketed in a stout
blanket of gay colouring. “Ugh--some snow!” she muttered, as a gust of wind beat
against her face and drove great snowflakes into the room, fairly taking her
breath away. But her words fell on deaf ears. For, oblivious to the storm that
was now raging outside, the youthful pair of lovers continued to concentrate
their thoughts upon the storm that was raging within their own breasts, the Girl
keeping up the struggle with herself, while the man urged her on as only he knew
how. “Why, if I let you take one you’d take two,” denied the Girl, half-yielding
by her very words, if she but knew it. “No, I wouldn’t--I swear I wouldn’t,”
promised the man with great earnestness. “Ugh--very bad!” was the Indian woman’s
muffled ejaculation as she peered out into the night. But she had promised her
lover to come to him when supper was over, and she would not break faith with
him even if it were at the peril of her life. The next moment she went out, as
did the red light in the Girl’s lantern hanging on a peg of the outer door. “Oh,
please, please,” said the Girl, half-protestingly, half-willingly. But the man
was no longer to be denied; he kept on urging:

“One kiss, only one.”

Here was an appeal which could no longer be resisted, and though half-frightened
by the tone of his voice and the look in his eye, the Girl let herself be taken
into his arms as she murmured:

“’Tain’t no use, I lay down my hands to you.”

And so it was that, unconscious of the great havoc that was being wrought by the
storm, unconscious of the danger that momentarily threatened their lives, they
remained locked in each other’s arms. The Girl made no attempt to silence him
now or withdraw her hands from his. Why should she? Had he not come to Cloudy
Mountain to woo her? Was she not awaiting his coming? To her it seemed but
natural that the conventions should be as nothing in the face of love. His
voice, low and musical, charged with passion, thrilled through her. “I love
you,” said the man, with a note of possession that frightened her while it
filled her with strange, sweet joy. For months she had dreamed of him and loved
him; no wonder that she looked upon him as her hero and yielded herself entirely
to her fate. She lifted her eyes and he saw the love in them. She freed her
hands from his grasp, and then gave them back to him in a little gesture of
surrender. “Yes, you’re mine, an’ I’m yours,” she said with trembling lips. “I
have lived but for this from the moment that I first saw you,” he told her,
softly. “Me, too--seein’ that I’ve prayed for it day an’ night,” she
acknowledged, her eyes seeking his. “Our destinies have brought us together;
whatever happens now I am content,” he said, pressing his lips once more to
hers. A little while later he added: “My darkest hour will be lightened by the
memory of you, to-night.”

XII

The clock, striking the hour of two, filled in a lull that might otherwise have
seemed to require conversation. For some minutes, Johnson, raised to a higher
level of exaltation, even, than was the Girl, had been secretly rejoicing in the
Fate that had brought them together. “It’s wonderful that I should have found
her at last and won her love,” he soliloquised. “We must be Fortune’s children--
she and I.”

The minutes ticked away and still they were silent. Then, of a sudden, with
infinite tenderness in his voice, Johnson asked:

“What is your name, Girl--your real name?”

“Min--Minnie; my father’s name was Smith,” she told him, her eyes cast down
under delicately tremulous lids. “Oh, Minnie Sm--”

“But ’twa’n’t his right name,” quickly corrected the Girl, and unconsciously
both rose to their feet. “His right name was Falconer.”

“Minnie Falconer--well, that is a pretty name,” commented Johnson; and raising
her hand to his lips he pressed them against it. “I ain’t sure that’s what he
said it was--I ain’t sure o’ anythin’ only jest you,” she said coyly, burying
her face in his neck. “You may well be sure of me since I’ve loved--” Johnson’s
sentence was cut short, a wave of remorse sweeping over him. “Turn your head
away, Girl, and don’t listen to me,” he went on, gently putting her away from
him. “I’m not worthy of you. Don’t listen but just say no, no, no, no.”

The Girl, puzzled, was even more so when Johnson began to pace the floor. “Oh, I
know--I ain’t good enough for you!” she cried with a little tremour in her
voice. “But I’ll try hard, hard.... If you see anythin’ better in me, why don’t
you bring it out, ’cause I’ve loved you ever since I saw you first, ’cause I
knowed that you--that you were the right man.”

“The right man,” repeated Johnson, dismally, for his conscience was beginning to
smite him hard. “Don’t laugh!”

“I’m not laughing,” as indeed he was not. “O’ course every girl kind o’ looks
ahead,” went on the Girl in explanation. “Yes, I suppose,” he observed
seriously. “An’ figgers about bein’--well, Oh, you know--about bein’ settled.
An’ when the right man comes, why, she knows ’im, you bet! Jest as we both
knowed each other standin’ on the road to Monterey. I said that day, he’s good,
he’s gran’ an’ he can have me.”

“I could have you,” murmured Johnson, meditatively. The Girl nodded eagerly.
There was a long silence in which Johnson was trying to make up his mind to tear
himself away from her,--the one woman whom he loved in the world,--for it had
been slowly borne in upon him that he was not a fit mate for this pure young
girl. Nor was his unhappiness lessened when he recalled how she had struggled
against yielding to him. At last, difficult though it was, he took his courage
in both hands, and said:

“Girl, I have looked into your heart and my own and now I realise what this
means for us both--for you, Girl--and knowing that, it seems hard to say good-
bye as I should, must and will....”

At those clear words spoken by lips which failed so utterly to hide his misery,
the Girl’s face turned pale. “What do you mean?” she asked. Johnson coloured,
hesitated, and finally with a swift glance at the clock, he briefly explained:

“I mean it’s hard to go and leave you here. The clock reminded me that long
before this I should have been on my way. I shouldn’t have come up here at all.
God bless you, dear,” and here their eyes came together and seemed unable to
part,--“I love you as I never thought I could....”

But at Johnson’s queer look she hastened to inquire:

“But it ain’t for long you’re goin’?”

For long! Then she had not understood that he meant to go for all time. How tell
her the truth? While he pondered over the situation there came to him with great
suddenness the thought that, perhaps, after all, Life never intended that she
should be given to him only to be taken away almost as suddenly; and seized with
a desire to hold on to her at any cost, he sprang forward as if to take her in
his arms, but before he reached her, he stopped short. “Such happiness is not
for me,” he muttered under his breath; and then aloud he added: “No, no, I’ve
got to go now while I have the courage, I mean.” He broke off as suddenly as he
had begun, and taking her face in his hands he kissed her good-bye. Now,
accustomed as was the Girl to the strange comings and goings of the men at the
camp, it did not occur to her to question him further when he told her that he
should have been away before now. Moreover, she trusted and loved him. And so it
was without the slightest feeling of misgiving that she watched her lover
quickly take down his coat and hat from the peg on the wall and start for the
door. On the other hand, it must have required not a little courage on the man’s
part to have torn himself away from this lovely, if unconventional, creature,
just as he was beginning to love truly and appreciate her. But, then, Johnson
was a man of no mean determination! Not daring to trust himself to words,
Johnson paused to look back over his shoulder at the Girl before plunging forth
into the night. But on opening the door all the multitudinous wild noises of the
forests reached his ears: Sounds of whispering and rocking storm-tossed pines,
sounds of the wind making the rounds of the deep canyon below them, sounds that
would have made the blood run cold of a man more daring, even, than himself.
Like one petrified he stood blinded, almost, by the great drifts of snow that
were being driven into the room, while the cabin rocked and shook and the roof
cracked and snapped, the lights flickered, smoked, or sent their tongues of fire
upward towards the ceiling, the curtains swayed like pendants in the air, and
while baskets, boxes, and other small furnishings of the cabin were blown in
every direction. But it was the Girl’s quick presence of mind that saved them
from being buried, literally, under the snow. In an instant she had rushed past
him and closed both the outer and inner doors of the cabin; then, going over to
the window, she tried to look through the heavily frosted panes; but the falling
of the sleet and snow, striking the window like fine shot, made it impossible
for her to see more than a few inches away. “Why, it’s the first time I knew
that it--” She cut her sentence short and ended with: “That’s the way we git it
up here! Look! Look!”

Whereupon, Johnson went over to the window and put his face close to hers on the
frosted panes; a great sea of white snow met his gaze! “This means--” he said,
turning away from the window and meeting her glance--“surely it doesn’t mean
that I can’t leave Cloudy to-night?”

“It means you can’t get off the mountain to-night,” calmly answered the Girl.
“Good Lord!” fell from the man’s lips. “You can’t leave this room to-night,”
went on the Girl, decidedly. “Why, you couldn’t find your way three feet from
this door--you a stranger! You don’t know the trail anyway unless you can see
it.”

“But I can’t stay here?” incredulously. “Why not? Why, that’s all right! The
boys’ll come up an’ dig us out to-morrow or day after. There’s plenty o’ wood
an’ you can have my bed.” And with no more ado than that, the Girl went over to
the bed to remove the covers and make it ready for his occupancy. “I wouldn’t
think of taking that,” protested the man, stoutly, while his face clouded over.
The Girl felt a thrill at the note of regard in his voice and hastened to
explain:

“I never use it cold nights; I always roll up in my rug in front of the fire.”
All of a sudden she broke out into a merry little laugh. “Jest think of it
stormin’ all this time an’ we didn’t know it!”

But Johnson was not in a laughing mood. Indeed, he looked very grave and serious
when presently he said:

“But people coming up here and finding me might--”

The Girl looked up at him in blank amazement. “Might what?” And then, while she
waited for his answer, two shots in close succession rang out in the night with
great distinctness. There was no mistaking the nearness of the sound. Instantly
scenting trouble and alert at the possibility of danger, Johnson inquired:

“What’s that? What’s that?”

“Wait! Wait!” came back from the Girl, unconsciously in the same tone, while she
strained her ears for other sounds. She did not have long to wait, however,
before other shots followed, the last ones coming from further away, so it
seemed, and at greater intervals. “They’ve got a road agent--it’s the posse--
p’r’aps they’ve got Ramerrez or one o’ his band!” suddenly declared the Girl, at
the same time rushing over to the window for some verification of her words.
But, as before, the wind was beating with great force against the frosted panes,
and only a vast stretch of snow met her gaze. Turning away from the window she
now came towards him with: “You see, whoever it is, they’re snowed in--they
can’t get away.”

Johnson knitted his brows and muttered something under his breath which the Girl
did not catch. Again a shot was fired. “Another thief crep’ into camp,” coldly
observed the Girl almost simultaneously with the report. Johnson winced. “Poor
devil!” he muttered. “But of course, as you say, he’s only a thief.”

In reply to which the Girl uttered words to the effect that she was glad he had
been caught. “Well, you’re right,” said Johnson, thoughtfully, after a short
silence; then determinedly and in short jerky sentences, he went on: “I’ve been
thinking that I must go--tear myself away. I have very important business at
dawn--imperative business....”

The Girl, who now stood by the table folding up the white cloth cover, watched
him out of the corner of her eye, take down his coat from the peg on the wall.
“Ever sample one o’ our mountain blizzards?” she asked as he slipped on his
coat. “In five minutes you wouldn’t know where you was. Your important business
would land you at the bottom of a canyon ’bout twenty feet from here.”

Johnson cleared his throat as if to speak but said nothing; whereupon the Girl
continued:

“You say you believe in Fate. Well, Fate has caught up with you--you got to stay
here.”

Johnson was strangely silent. He was wondering how his coming there to-night had
really come about. But he could find no solution to the problem unless it was in
response to that perverse instinct which prompts us all at times to do the very
thing which in our hearts we know to be wrong. The Girl, meanwhile, after a
final creasing of the neatly-folded cover, started for the cupboard, stopping on
the way to pick up various articles which the wind had strewn about the room.
Flinging them quickly into the cupboard she now went over to the window and once
more attempted to peer out into the night. But as before, it was of no avail.
With a shrug she straightened the curtains at the windows and started for the
door. Her action seemed to quicken his decision, for, presently, with a gesture
of resignation, he threw down his hat and coat on the table and said as if
speaking to himself:

“Well, it is Fate--my Fate that has always made the thing I shouldn’t do so
easy.” And then, turning to the Girl, he added: “Come, Girl, as you say, if I
can’t go, I can’t. But I know as I stand here that I’ll never give you up.”

The Girl looked puzzled. “Why, what do you mean?”

“I mean,” began Johnson, pacing the floor slowly. Now he stopped by a chair and
pointed as though to the falling snow. “Suppose we say that’s an omen--that the
old trail is blotted out and there is a fresh road. Would you take it with me a
stranger, who says: From this day I mean to be all you’d have me. Would you take
it with me far away from here and forever?”

It did not take the Girl long to frame an answer. Taking Johnson’s hand she said
with great feeling:

“Well, show me the girl that would want to go to Heaven alone! I’ll sell out the
saloon--I’ll go anywhere with you, you bet!”

Johnson bent low over her hand and kissed it. The Girl’s straightforward answer
had filled his heart to overflowing with joy. “You know what that means, don’t
you?” a moment later he asked. Sudden joy leapt to her blue eyes. “Oh, yes,” she
told him with a world of understanding in her voice. There was a silence; then
she went on reminiscently: “There’s a little Spanish Mission church--I pass it
’most every day. I can look in an’ see the light burnin’ before the Virgin an’
see the saints standin’ round with glassy eyes an’ faded satin slippers. An’ I
often tho’t what they’d think if I was to walk right in to be made--well, some
man’s wife. It makes your blood like pin-points thinkin’ about it. There’s
somethin’ kind o’ holy about love, ain’t they?”

Johnson nodded. He had never regarded love in that light before, much less known
it. For many moments he stood motionless, a new problem of right and wrong
throbbing in his bosom. At last, it being settled that Johnson was to pass the
night in the Girl’s cabin, she went over to the bed and, once more, began to
make it ready for his occupancy. Meanwhile, Johnson, seated in the barrel rocker
before the fire, watched her with a new interest. The Girl had not gone very far
with her duties, however, when she suddenly came over to him, plumping herself
down on the floor at his feet. “Say, did you ever ask any other woman to marry
you?” she asked as she leaned far back in his arms. “No,” was the man’s truthful
answer. “Oh, how glad I am! Take me--ah, take me I don’t care where as long as
it is with you!” cried the Girl in an ecstasy of delight. “So help me, God, I’m
going to...!” promised Johnson, his voice strained, tense. “You’re worth
something better than me, Girl,” he added, a moment later, “but they say love
works miracles every hour, that it weakens the strong and strengthens the weak.
With all my soul I love you, with all my soul I--” The man let his voice die
out, leaving his sentence unfinished. Suddenly he called: “Why, Min-Minnie!”

“I wasn’t really asleep,” spoke up the Girl, blinking sleepily. “I’m jest so
happy an’ let down, that’s all.” The next moment, however, she was forced to
acknowledge that she was awfully sleepy and would have to say good-night. “All
right,” said Johnson, rising, and kissed her good-night. “That’s your bed over
there,” she told him, pointing in the direction of the curtains. “But hadn’t you
better take the bed and let me sleep over here?”

“Not much!”

“You’re sure you would be more comfortable by the fire--sure, now?”

“Yes, you bet!”

And so it was that Johnson decided to pass the night in the Girl’s canopied bed
while she herself, rolled up in a blanket rug before the fire, slept on the
floor. “This beats a bed any time,” remarked the Girl, spreading out the rug
smoothly; and then, reaching up for the old patchwork, silk quilt that hung from
the loft, she added: “There’s one thing--you don’t have to make it up in the
mornin’.”

“You’re splendid, Girl” laughed Johnson. Presently, he saw her quietly closet
herself in the cupboard, only to emerge a few minutes later dressed for the
night. Over her white cambric gown with its coarse lace trimming showing at the
throat, she wore a red woollen blanket robe held in at the waist by a heavy,
twisted, red cord which, to the man who got a glimpse of her as she crossed the
room, made her prettier, even, than she had seemed at any time yet. Quietly,
now, the Girl began to put her house in order. All the lights, save the
quaintly-shaded lamp that was suspended over the table, were extinguished; that
one, after many unsuccessful attempts, was turned down so as to give the right
minimum of light which would not interfere with her lover’s sleep. Then she went
over to the door to make sure that it was bolted. Outside the wind howled and
shrieked and moaned; but inside the cabin it had never seemed more cosey and
secure and peaceful to her. “Now you can talk to me from your bunk an’ I’ll talk
to you from mine,” she said in a sleepy, lazy voice. Except for a prodigious
yawn which came from the Girl there was an ominous quiet hanging over the place
that chilled the man. Sudden sounds startled him, and he found it impossible to
make any progress with his preparations for the night. He was about to make some
remark, however, when to his well-attuned ears there came the sound of
approaching footsteps. In an instant he was standing in the parting made by the
curtains, his face eager, animated, tense. “What’s that?” he whispered. “That’s
snow slidin’,” the Girl informed him without the slightest trace of anxiety in
her voice. “God bless you, Girl,” he murmured, and retreated back of the
curtains. It was only an instant before he was back again with: “Why, there _is_
something out there--sounded like people calling,” he again whispered. “That’s
only the wind,” she said, adding as she drew her robe tightly about her:
“Gettin’ cold, ain’t it?”

But, notwithstanding her assurances, Johnson did not feel secure, and it was
with many misgivings that he now directed his footsteps towards the bed behind
the curtains. “Good-night!” he said uneasily. “Good-night!” unconsciously
returned the Girl in the same tone. Taking off her slippers the Girl now put on
a pair of moccasins and quietly went over to her bed, where she knelt down and
made a silent prayer. “Good-night!” presently came from a little voice in the
rug. “Good-night!” answered the man now settled in the centre of the much-
befrilled bed. There was a silence; then the little voice in the rug called out:

“Say, what’s your name?”

“Dick,” whispered the man behind the curtains. “So long, Dick!” drowsily. “So
long, Girl!” dreamily. There was a brief silence; then, of a sudden, the Girl
bolted upright in bed, and asked:

“Say, Dick, are you sure you don’t know that Nina Micheltoreña?”

“Sure,” prevaricated the man, not without some compunction. Whereupon the Girl
fell back on her pillows and called out contentedly a final “Good-night!”

XIII

There was no mistaking then--no need to contrast her feeling of anxiety of a few
moments ago lest some other woman had preceded her in his affections, with her
indifference on former occasions when her admirers had proved faithless, to make
the Girl realise that she was experiencing love and was dominated by a passion
for this man. So that, with no reason whatever in her mind to question the
sincerity of Johnson’s love for her, it would seem as if nothing were wanting to
make the Girl perfectly happy; that there could be no room in her heart for any
feeling other than elation. And yet, curiously enough, the Girl could not doze
off to sleep. Some mysterious force--a vague foreboding of something about to
happen--impelled her to open her eyes again and again. It was an odd and wholly
new sensation, this conjuring up of distressing spectres, for no girl was given
less to that sort of thing; all the same, it was with difficulty that she
checked an impulse to cry out to her lover--whom she believed to be asleep--and
make him dissipate, by renewed assurances, the mysterious barrier which she felt
was hemming her in. As for Johnson, the moment that his head had touched the
pillows, he fell to thinking of the awkward situation in which he was placed,
the many complications in which his heart had involved him and, finally, he
found himself wondering whether the woman whom he loved so dearly was also lying
sleepless in her rug on the floor. And so it was not surprising that he should
spring up the moment that he heard cries from outside. “Who’s that knockin’, I
wonder?”

Although her voice showed no signs of distress or annoyance, the question coming
from her in a calm tone, the Girl was upon her feet almost before she knew it.
In a trice she removed all evidences that she had been lying upon the floor,
flinging the pillows and silk coverlet to the wardrobe top. In that same moment
Johnson was standing in the parting of the curtains, his hand raised warningly.
In another moment he was over to the door where, after taking his pistols from
his overcoat pockets, he stood in a cool, determined attitude, fingering his
weapons. “But some one’s ben callin’,” the Girl was saying, at the very moment
when above the loud roaring of the wind another knock was heard on the cabin
door. “Who can it be?” she asked as if to herself, and calmly went over to the
table, where she took up the candle and lit it. Springing to her side, Johnson
whispered tensely:

“Don’t answer--you can’t let anyone in--they wouldn’t understand.”

The Girl eyed him quizzically. “Understand what?” And before he had time to
explain, much less to check her, she was standing at the window, candle in hand,
peering out into the night. “Why, it’s the posse!” she cried, wheeling round
suddenly. “How did they ever risk it in this storm?”

At these words a crushed expression appeared on Johnson’s countenance; an
uncanny sense of insecurity seized him. Once more the loud, insistent pounding
was repeated, and as before, the outlaw, his hands on his guns, commanded her
not to answer. “But what on earth do the boys want?” inquired the Girl,
seemingly oblivious to what he was saying. Indeed, so much so that as the voice
of Nick rose high above the other sounds of the night, calling, “Min-Minnie-
Girl, let us in!” she hurriedly brushed past him and yelled through the door:

“What do you want?”

Again Johnson’s hand went up imperatively. “Don’t let him come in!” he
whispered. But even then she heard not his warning, but silently, tremulously
listened to Sonora, who shouted through the door: “Say, Girl, you all right?”
And not until her answering voice had called back her assurance that she was
safe did she turn to the man at her side and whisper in a voice that showed
plainly her agitation and fear:

“Jack Rance is there! If he was to see you here--he’s that jealous I’d be
afraid--” She checked her words and quickly put her ear close to the door, the
voices outside having become louder and more distinct. Presently she spun round
on her heel and announced excitedly: “Ashby’s there, too!” And again she put her
ear to the door. “Ashby!” The exclamation fell from Johnson’s lips before he was
aware of it. It was impossible to deceive himself any longer--the posse had
tracked him! “We want to come in, Girl!” suddenly rang out from the well-known
voice of Nick. “But you can’t come in!” shouted back the Girl above the noise of
the storm; then, taking advantage of a particularly loud howl of the blast, she
turned to Johnson and inquired: “What will I say? What reason will I give?”

Serious as was Johnson’s predicament, he could not suppress a smile. In a
surprisedly calm voice he told her to say that she had gone to bed. The Girl’s
eyes flooded with admiration. “Why, o’ course--that’s it,” she said, and turned
back to the door and called through it: “I’ve gone to bed, Nick! I’m in bed
now!”

The barkeeper’s answer was lost in another loud howl of the blast. Soon
afterwards, however, the Girl made out that Nick was endeavouring to convey to
her a warning of some kind. “You say you’ve come to warn me?” she cried. “Yes,
Ramerrez...!”

“What? Say that again?”

“Ramerrez is on the trail--”

“Ramerrez’s on the trail!” repeated the Girl in tones of alarm; and not waiting
to hear further she motioned to Johnson to conceal himself behind the curtains
of the bed, muttering the while:

“I got to let ’em in--I can’t keep ’em out there on such a night....” He had
barely reached his place of concealment when the Girl slid back the bolts and
bade the boys to come in. Headed by Rance, the men quickly filed in and
deposited their lanterns on the floor. It was evident that they had found the
storm most severe, for their boots were soaked through and their heavy buffalo
overcoats, caps and ear-muffs were covered with snow, which all, save Rance,
proceeded to remove by shaking their shoulders and stamping their feet. The
latter, however, calmly took off his gloves, pulled out a beautifully-creased
handkerchief from his pocket, and began slowly to flick off the snow from his
elegant mink overcoat before hanging it carefully upon a peg on the wall. After
that he went over to the table and warmed his hands over the lighted candle
there. Meanwhile, Sonora, his nose, as well as his hands which with difficulty
he removed from his heavy fur mittens, showing red and swollen from the effects
of the biting cold, had gone over to the fire, where he ejaculated:

“Ouf, I’m cold! Glad you’re safe, Girl!”

“Yes, Girl, The Polka’s had a narrow squeak,” observed Nick, stamping his feet
which, as well as his legs, were wrapped with pieces of blankets for added
warmth. Unconsciously, at his words, the Girl’s eyes travelled to the bed; then,
drawing her robe snugly about her, and seating herself, she asked with
suppressed excitement:

“Why, Nick, what’s the matter? What’s--”

Rance took it upon himself to do the answering. Sauntering over to the Girl, he
drawled out:

“It takes you a long time to get up, seems to me. You haven’t so much on,
either,” he went on, piercing her with his eyes. Smilingly and not in the least
disconcerted by the Sheriff’s remark, the Girl picked up a rug from the floor
and wound it about her knees. “Well?” she interrogated. “Well, we was sure that
you was in trouble,” put in Sonora. “My breath jest stopped.”

“Me? Me in trouble, Sonora?” A little laugh that was half-gay, half-derisive,
accompanied her words. “See here, that man Ramerrez--” followed up Rance with a
grim look. “--feller you was dancin’ with,” interposed Sonora, but checked
himself instantly lest he wound the Girl’s feelings. Whereupon, Rance, with no
such compunctions, became the spokesman, a grimace of pleasure spreading over
his countenance as he thought of the unpleasant surprise he was about to impart.
Stretching out his stiffened fingers over the blaze, he said in his most brutal
tones:

“Your polkying friend is none other than Ramerrez.”

The Girl’s eyes opened wide, but they did not look at the Sheriff. They looked
straight before her. “I warned you, girl,” spoke up Ashby, “that you should bank
with us oftener.”

The Girl gave no sign of having heard him. Her slender figure seemed to have
shrunken perceptibly as she stared stupidly, uncomprehendingly, into space. “We
say that Johnson was--” repeated Rance, impatiently. “--what?” fell from the
Girl’s lips, her face pale and set. “Are you deaf?” demanded Rance; and then,
emphasising every word, he rasped out: “The fellow you’ve been polkying with is
the man that has been asking people to hold up their hands.”

“Oh, go on--you can’t hand me out that!” Nevertheless the Girl looked wildly
about the room. Angrily Rance strode over to her and sneered bitingly:

“You don’t believe it yet, eh?”

“No, I don’t believe it yet!” rapped out the Girl, laying great stress upon the
last word. “I know he isn’t.”

“Well, he _is_ Ramerrez, and he _did_ come to The Polka to rob it,” retorted the
Sheriff. All at once the note of resentment in the Girl’s voice became positive;
she flared back at him, though she flushed in spite of herself. “But he didn’t
rob it!”

“That’s what gits me,” fretted Sonora. “He didn’t.”

“I should think it would git you,” snapped back the Girl, both in her look and
voice rebuking him for his words. It was left to Ashby to spring another
surprise. “We’ve got his horse,” he said pointedly. “An’ I never knowed one o’
these men to separate from his horse,” commented Sonora, still smarting under
the Girl’s reprimand. “Right you are! And now that we’ve got his horse and this
storm is on, we’ve got him,” said Rance, triumphantly. “But the last seen of
Johnson,” he went on with a hasty movement towards the Girl and eyeing her
critically, “he was heading this way. You seen anything of him?”

The Girl struggled hard to appear composed. “Heading this way?” she inquired,
reddening. “So Nick said,” declared Sonora, looking towards that individual for
proof of his words. But Nick had caught the Girl’s lightning glance imposing
silence upon him; in some embarrassment he stammered out:

“That is, he was--Sid said he saw ’im take the trail, too.”

“But the trail ends here,” pointed out Rance, at the same time looking hard at
the Girl. “And if she hasn’t seen him, where was he going?”

At this juncture Nick espied a cigar butt on the floor; unseen by the others, he
hurriedly picked it up and threw it in the fire. “One o’ our dollar Havanas!
Good Lord, he’s here!” he muttered to himself. “Rance is right. Where was he
goin’?” was the question with which he was confronted by Sonora when about to
return to the others. “Well, I tho’t I seen him,” evaded Nick with considerable
uneasiness. “I couldn’t swear to it. You see it was dark, an’--Moses but the
Sidney Duck’s a liar!”

At length, Ashby decided that the man had in all probability been snowed under,
ending confidently with:

“Something scared him off and he lit out without his horse.” Which remark
brought temporary relief to the Girl, for Nick, watching her, saw the colour
return to her face. Unconsciously, during this discussion, the Girl had risen to
her feet, but only to fall back in her chair again almost as suddenly, a sign of
nervousness which did not escape the sharp eye of the Sheriff. “How do you know
the man’s a road agent?” A shade almost of contempt was in the Girl’s question.
Sonora breathed on his badly nipped fingers before answering:

“Well, two greasers jest now were pretty positive before they quit.”

Instantly the Girl’s head went up in the air. “Greasers!” she ejaculated
scornfully, while her eyes unfalteringly met Rance’s steady gaze. “But the woman
knew him,” was the Sheriff’s vindictive thrust. The Girl started; her face went
white. “The woman--the woman d’you say?”

“Why, yes, it was a woman that first tol’ them that Ramerrez was in the camp to
rob The Polka,” Sonora informed her, though his tone showed plainly his surprise
at being compelled to repeat a thing which, he wrongly believed, she already
knew. “We saw her at The Palmetto,” leered Rance. “And we missed the reward,”
frowned Ashby; at which Rance quickly turned upon the speaker with:

“But Ramerrez is trapped.”

There was a moment’s startled pause in which the Girl struggled with her
passions; at last, she ventured:

“Who’s this woman?”

The Sheriff laughed discordantly. “Why, the woman of the back trail,” he
sneered. “Nina Micheltoreña! Then she does know ’im--it’s true--it goes through
me!” unwittingly burst from the Girl’s lips. The Sheriff, evidently, found the
situation amusing, for he laughed outright. “He’s the sort of a man who polkas
with you first and then cuts your throat,” was his next stab. The Girl turned
upon him with eyes flashing and retorted:

“Well, it’s my throat, ain’t it?”

“Well I’ll be!--” The Sheriff’s sentence was left unfinished, for Nick, quickly
pulling him to one side, whispered:

“Say, Rance, the Girl’s cut up because she vouched for ’im. Don’t rub it in.”

Notwithstanding, Rance, to the Girl’s query of “How did this Nina Micheltoreña
know it?” took a keen delight in telling her:

“She’s his girl.”

“His girl?” repeated the Girl, mechanically. “Yes. She gave us his picture,”
went on Rance; and taking the photograph out of his pocket, he added
maliciously, “with love written on the back of it.”

A glance at the photograph, which she fairly snatched out of his hands,
convinced the Girl of the truthfulness of his assertion. With a movement of pain
she threw it upon the floor, crying out bitterly:

“Nina Micheltoreña! Nina Micheltoreña!” Turning to Ashby with an abrupt change
of manner she said contritely: “I’m sorry, Mr. Ashby, I vouched for ’im.”

The Wells Fargo Agent softened at the note in the Girl’s voice; he was about to
utter some comforting words to her when suddenly she spoke again. “I s’pose they
had one o’ them little lovers’ quarrels an’ that made ’er tell you, eh?” She
laughed a forced little laugh, though her heart was beating strangely as she
kept on: “He’s the kind o’ man who sort o’ polkas with every girl he meets.” And
at this she began to laugh almost hysterically. Rance, who resented her
apologising to anyone but himself, stood scowling at her. “What are you laughing
at?” he questioned. “Oh, nothin’, Jack, nothin’,” half-cried, half-laughed the
Girl. “Only it’s kind o’ funny how things come out, ain’t it? Took in! Nina
Micheltoreña! Nice company he keeps--one o’ them Cachuca girls with eyelashes at
half-mast!”

Once more she broke out into a fit of laughter. “Well, well,” she resumed, “an’
she sold ’im out for money! Ah, Jack Rance, you’re a better guesser’n I am!” And
with these words she sank down at the table in an apathy of misery. Horror and
hatred and hopelessness had possession of her. A fierce look was in her eyes
when a moment later she raised her head and abruptly dismissed the boys, saying:

“Well, boys, it’s gittin’ late--good-night!”

Sonora was the first to make a movement towards the door. “Come on, boys,” he
growled in his deep bass voice; “don’t you intend to let a lady go to bed?”

One by one the men filed through the door which Nick held open for them; but
when all but himself had left, the devoted little barkeeper turned to the Girl
with a look full of meaning, and whispered:

“Do you want me to stay?”

“Me? Oh, no, Nick!” And with a “Good-night, all! Good-night, Sonora, an’ thank
you! Good-night, Nick!” the Girl closed the door upon them. The last that she
heard from them was the muffled ejaculation:

“Oh, Lordy, we’ll never git down to Cloudy to-night!”

Now the Girl slid the bolts and stood with her back against the door as if to
take extra precautions to bar out any intrusion, and with eyes that blazed she
yelled out:

“Come out o’ that, now! Step out there, Mr. Johnson!”

Slowly the road agent parted the curtains and came forward in an attitude of
dejection. “You came here to rob me,” at once began the Girl, but her anger made
it impossible for her to continue. “I didn’t,” denied the road agent, quietly,
his countenance reflecting how deeply hurt he was by her words. “You lie!”
insisted the Girl, beside herself with rage. “I don’t--”

“You do!”

“I admit that every circumstance points to--”

“Stop! Don’t you give me any more o’ that Webster Unabridged. You git to cases.
If you didn’t come here to steal you came to The Polka to rob it, didn’t you?”

Johnson, his eyes lowered, was forced to admit that such were his intentions,
adding swiftly:

“But when I knew about you--” He broke off and took a step towards her. “Wait!
Wait! Wait where you are! Don’t you take a step further or I’ll--” She made a
significant gesture towards her bosom, and then, laughing harshly, went on
denouncingly: “A road agent! A road agent! Well, ain’t it my luck! Wouldn’t
anybody know to look at me that a gentleman wouldn’t fall my way! A road agent!
A road agent!” And again she laughed bitterly before going on: “But now you can
git--git, you thief, you imposer on a decent woman! I ought to have tol’ ’em
all, but I wa’n’t goin’ to be the joke o’ the world with you behind the curtains
an’ me eatin’ charlotte rusks an’ lemming turnovers an’ a-polkyin’ with a road
agent! But now you can git--git, do you hear me?”

Johnson heard her to the end with bowed head; and so scathing had been her
denunciations of his actions that the fact that pride alone kept her from
breaking down completely escaped his notice. With his eyes still downcast he
said in painful fragments:

“One word only--only a word and I’m not going to say anything in defence of
myself. For it’s all true--everything is true except that I would have stolen
from you. I _am_ called Ramerrez; I _have_ robbed; I _am_ a road agent--an
outlaw by profession. Yes, I’m all that--and my father was that before me. I was
brought up, educated, thrived on thieves’ money, I suppose, but until six months
ago when my father died, I did not know it. I lived much in Monterey--I lived
there as a gentleman. When we met that day I wasn’t the thing I am to-day. I
only learned the truth when my father died and left me with a rancho and a band
of thieves--nothing else--nothing for us all, and I--but what’s the good of
going into it--the circumstances. You wouldn’t understand if I did. I was my
father’s son; I have no excuse; I guess, perhaps, it was in me--in the blood.
Anyhow, I took to the road, and I didn’t mind it much after the first time. But
I drew the line at killing--I wouldn’t have that. That’s the man that I am, the
blackguard that I am. But--” here he raised his eyes and said with a voice that
was charged with feeling--“I swear to you that from the moment I kissed you to-
night I meant to change, I meant to--”

“The devil you did!” broke from the Girl’s lips, but with a sound that was not
unlike a sob. “I did, believe me, I did,” insisted the man. “I meant to go
straight and take you with me--but only honestly--when I could honestly. I meant
to work for you. Why, every word you said to me to-night about being a thief cut
into me like a knife. Over and over again I have said to myself, she must never
know. And now--well, it’s all over--I have finished.”

“An’ that’s all?” questioned the Girl with averted face. “No--yes--what’s the
use...?”

The Girl’s anger blazed forth again. “But there’s jest one thing you’ve
overlooked explainin’, Mr. Johnson. It shows exactly what you are. It wasn’t so
much your bein’ a road agent I got against you. It’s this:” And here she stamped
her foot excitedly. “You kissed me--you got my first kiss.”

Johnson hung his head. “You said,” kept on the Girl, hotly, “you’d ben thinkin’
o’ me ever since you saw me at Monterey, an’ all the time you walked straight
off an’ ben kissin’ that other woman.” She shrugged her shoulder and laughed
grimly. “You’ve got a girl,” she continued, growing more and more indignant.
“It’s that I’ve got against you. It’s my first kiss I’ve got against you. It’s
that Nina Micheltoreña that I can’t forgive. So now you can git--git!” And with
these words she unbolted the door and concluded tensely:

“If they kill you I don’t care. Do you hear, I don’t care....”

At those bitter words spoken by lips which failed so utterly to hide their
misery, the Girl’s face became colourless. With the instinct of a brave man to
sell his life as dearly as possible, Johnson took a couple of guns from his
pocket; but the next moment, as if coming to the conclusion that death without
the Girl would be preferable, he put them back, saying:

“You’re right, Girl.”

The next instant he had passed out of the door which she held wide open for him.
“That’s the end o’ that--that’s the end o’ that,” she wound up, slamming the
door after him. But all the way from the threshold to the bureau she kept
murmuring to herself: “I don’t care, I don’t care.... I’ll be like the rest o’
the women I’ve seen. I’ll give that Nina Micheltoreña cards an’ spades. There’ll
be another hussy around here. There’ll be--” The threat was never finished.
Instead, with eyes that fairly started out of their sockets, she listened to the
sound of a couple of shots, the last one exploding so loud and distinct that
there was no mistaking its nearness to the cabin. “They’ve got ’im!” she cried.
“Well, I don’t care--I don’t--” But again she did not finish what she intended
to say. For at the sound of a heavy body falling against the cabin door she flew
to it, opened it and, throwing her arms about the sorely-wounded man, dragged
him into the cabin and placed him in a chair. Quick as lightning she was back at
the door bolting it. With his eyes Johnson followed her action. “Don’t lock that
door--I’m going out again--out there. Don’t bar that door,” he commanded feebly,
struggling to his feet and attempting to walk towards it; but he lurched forward
and would have fallen to the floor had she not caught him. Vainly he strove to
break away from her, all the time crying out: “Don’t you see, don’t you see,
Girl--open the door.” And then again with almost a sob: “Do you think me a man
to hide behind a woman?” He would have collapsed except for the strong arms that
held him. “I love you an’ I’m goin’ to save you,” the Girl murmured while
struggling with him. “You asked me to go away with you; I will when you git out
o’ this. If you can’t save your own soul--” She stopped and quickly went over to
the mantel where she took down a bottle of whisky and a glass; but in the act of
pouring out a drink for him there came a loud rap on the window, and quickly
looking round she saw Rance’s piercing eyes peering into the room. For an
instant she paled, but then there flashed through her mind the comforting
thought that the Sheriff could not possibly see Johnson from his position. So,
after giving the latter his drink, she waited quietly until a rap at the door
told her that Rance had left the window when, her eye having lit on the ladder
that was held in place on the ceiling, she quickly ran over to it and let it
down, saying:

“Go up the ladder! Climb up there to the loft. You’re the man that’s got my
first kiss an’ I’m goin’ to save you....”

“Oh, no, not here,” protested Johnson, stubbornly. “Do you want them to see you
in my cabin?” she cried reproachfully, trying to lift him to his feet. “Oh,
hurry, hurry...!”

With the utmost difficulty Johnson rose to his feet and catching the rounds of
the ladder he began to ascend. But after going up a few rounds he reeled and
almost fell off, gasping:

“I can’t make it--no, I can’t....”

“Yes, you can,” encouraged the Girl; and then, simultaneously with another loud
knock on the door: “You’re the man I love an’ you must--you’ve got to show me
the man that’s in you. Oh, go on, go on, jest a step an’ you’ll git there.”

“But I can’t,” came feebly from the voice above. Nevertheless, the next instant
he fell full length on the boarded floor of the loft with the hand out-stretched
in which was the handkerchief he had been staunching the blood from the wound in
his side. With a whispered injunction that he was all right and was not to move
on any account, the Girl put the ladder back in its place. But no sooner was
this done than on looking up she caught sight of the stained handkerchief. She
called softly up to him to take it away, explaining that the cracks between the
boards were wide and it could plainly be seen from below. “That’s it!” she
exclaimed on observing that he had changed the position of his hand. “Now, don’t
move!”

Finally, with the lighted candle in her hand, the Girl made a quick survey of
the room to see that nothing was in sight that would betray her lover’s presence
there, and then throwing open the door she took up such a position by it that it
made it impossible for anyone to get past her without using force. “You can’t
come in here, Jack Rance,” she said in a resolute voice. “You can tell me what
you want from where you are.”

Roughly, almost brutally, Rance shoved her to one side and entered. “No more
Jack Rance. It’s the Sheriff coming after Mr. Johnson,” he said, emphasizing
each word. The Girl eyed him defiantly. “Yes, I said Mr. Johnson,” reiterated
the Sheriff, cocking the gun that he held in his hand. “I saw him coming in
here.”

“It’s more ’n I did,” returned the Girl, evenly, and bolted the door. “Do you
think I’d want to shield a man who tried to rob me?” she asked, facing him.
Ignoring the question, Rance removed the glove of his weaponless hand and strode
to the curtains that enclosed the Girl’s bed and parted them. When he turned
back he was met by a scornful look and the words:

“So, you doubt me, do you? Well, go on--search the place. But this ends your
acquaintance with The Polka. Don’t you ever speak to me again. We’re through.”

Suddenly there came a smothered groan from the man in the loft; Rance wheeled
round quickly and brought up his gun, demanding:

“What’s that? What’s that?”

Leaning against the bureau the Girl laughed outright and declared that the
Sheriff was becoming as nervous as an old woman. Her ridicule was not without
its effect, and, presently, Rance uncocked his gun and replaced it in its
holster. Advancing now to the table where the Girl was standing, he took off his
cap and shook it before laying it down; then, pointing to the door, his eyes
never leaving the Girl’s face, he went on accusingly:

“I saw someone standing out there against the snow. I fired. I could have sworn
it was a man.”

The Girl winced. But as she stood watching him calmly remove his coat and shake
it with the air of one determined to make himself at home, she cried out
tauntingly:

“Why do you stop? Why don’t you go on--finish your search--only don’t ever speak
to me again.”

At that, Rance became conciliatory. “Say, Min, I don’t want to quarrel with
you.”

Turning her back on him the Girl moved over to the bureau where she snapped out
over her shoulder:

“Go on with your search, then p’r’aps you’ll leave a lady to herself to go to
bed.”

The Sheriff followed her up with the declaration: “I’m plumb crazy about you,
Min.”

The Girl shrugged her shoulder. “I could have sworn I saw--I--Oh, you know it’s
just you for me--just you, and curse the man you like better. I--I--even yet I
can’t get over the queer look in your face when I told you who that man really
was.” He stopped and flung his overcoat down on the floor, and fixing her with a
look he demanded: “You don’t love him, do you?”

Again the Girl sent over her shoulder a forced little laugh. “Who--me?”

The Sheriff’s face brightened. Taking a few steps nearer to her, he hazarded:

“Say, Girl, was your answer final to-night about marrying me?”

Without turning round the Girl answered coyly:

“I might think it over, Jack.”

Instantly the man’s passion was aroused. He strode over to her, put his arms
around her and kissed her forcibly. “I love you, I love you, Minnie!” he cried
passionately. In the struggle that followed, the Girl’s eyes fell on the bottle
on the mantel. With a cry she seized it and raised it threateningly over her
head. Another second, however, she sank down upon a chair and began to sob, her
face buried in her hands. Rance regarded her coldly: at last he gave vent to a
mirthless laugh, the nasty laugh of a man whose vanity is hurt. “So, it’s as bad
as that,” he sneered. “I didn’t quite realise it. I’m much obliged to you. Good-
night.” He snatched up his coat, hesitated, then repeated a little less angrily
than before: “Good-night!”

But the Girl, with her face still hidden, made no answer. For a moment he
watched the crouching form, the quivering shoulders, then asked, with sudden and
unwonted gentleness:

“Can’t you say good-night to me, Girl!”

Slowly the Girl rose to her feet and faced him, aversion and pity struggling for
mastery. Then, as she noted the spot where he was now standing, his great height
bringing him so near to the low boards of the loft where her lover was lying
that it seemed as though he must hear the wounded man’s breathing, all other
feelings were swept away by overwhelming fear. With the one thought that she
must get rid of him,--do anything, say anything, but get rid of him quickly, she
forced herself forward, with extended hand, and said in a voice that held out
new promise:

“Good-night. Jack Rance,--good-night!”

Rance seized the hand with an almost fierce gladness in both his own, his keen
glance hungrily striving to read her face. Then, suddenly, he released her,
drawing back his hand with a quick sharpness. “Why, look at my hand! There’s
blood on it!” he said. And even as he spoke, under the yellow flare of the lamp,
the Girl saw a second drop of blood fall at her feet. Like a flash, the terrible
significance of it came upon her. Only by self-violence could she keep her
glance from rising, tell-tale, to the boards above. “Oh, I’m so sorry,” she
heard herself saying contritely, all the time desperately groping to invent a
reason; at length, she added futilely: “I must have scratched you.”

Rance looked puzzled, staring at the spatter of red as though hypnotised. “No,
there’s no scratch there,” he contended, wiping off the blood with his
handkerchief. “Oh, yes, there is,” insisted the Girl tremulously; “that is,
there will be in the mornin’. You’ll see in the mornin’ that there’ll be--” She
stopped and stared in frozen terror at the sinister face of the Sheriff, who was
coolly watching his handkerchief turn from white to red under the slow rain of
blood from the loft above. “Oho!” he emitted sardonically, stepping back and
pointing his gun towards the loft. “So, he’s up there!”

The Girl’s fingers clutched his arm, dragging desperately. “No, he isn’t, Jack--
no, he isn’t!” she iterated in blind, mechanical denial. With an abrupt
movement, Rance flung her violently from him, made a grab at the suspended
ladder and lowered it into position; then, deaf to the Girl’s pleadings, harshly
ordered Johnson to come down, meanwhile covering the source of the blood-drops
with his gun. “Oh, wait,--wait a minute!” begged the Girl helplessly. What would
happen if he couldn’t obey the summons? He had spent himself in his climb to
safety. Perhaps he was unconscious, slowly bleeding to death! But even as she
tortured herself with fears, the boards above creaked as though a heavy body was
dragging itself slowly across them. Johnson was evidently doing his best to
reach the top of the ladder; but he did not move quickly enough to suit the
Sheriff. “Come down, or I’ll--”

“Oh, just a minute, Jack, just a minute!” broke in the Girl frantically. “Don’t
shoot!--Don’t you see he’s tryin’ to--?”

“Come down here, Mr. Johnson!” reiterated the Sheriff, with a face inhuman as a
fiend. The Girl clenched her hands, heedless of the nails cutting into her
palms: “Won’t you wait a moment,--please, wait, Jack!”

“Wait? What for?” the Sheriff flung at her brutally, his finger twitching on the
trigger. The Girl’s lips parted to answer, then closed again dumbly,--for it was
then that she saw the boots, then the legs of the road agent slide uncertainly
through the open trap, fumble clumsily for the rungs of the ladder, then slip
and stumble as the weight of the following body came upon them while the weak
fingers strained desperately for a hold. The whole heart and soul and mind of
the Girl seemed to be reaching out impotently to give her lover strength, to
hurry him down fast enough to forestall a shot from the Sheriff. It seemed hours
until the road agent reached the bottom of the ladder, then lurched with
unseeing eyes to a chair and, finally, fell forward limply, with his arms and
head resting on the table. Still dumb with dread, the Girl watched Rance slowly
circle round the wounded man; it was not until the Sheriff returned his pistol
to its holster that she breathed freely again. “So, you dropped into The Polka
to-night to play a little game of poker? Funny how things change about in an
hour or two!” Rance chuckled mirthlessly; it seemed to suit his sardonic humour
to taunt his helpless rival. “You think you can play poker,--that’s your
conviction, is it? Well, you can play freeze-out as to your chances, Mr. Johnson
of Sacramento. Come, speak up,--it’s shooting or the tree,--which shall it be?”

Goaded beyond endurance by Rance’s taunting of the unconscious man, the Girl,
fumbling in her bosom for her pistol, turned upon him in a sudden, cold fury:

“You better stop that laughin’, Jack Rance, or I’ll send you to finish it in
some place where things ain’t so funny.”

Something in the Girl’s altered tone so struck the Sheriff that he obeyed her.
He said nothing, but on his lips were the words, “By Heaven, the Girl means it!”
and his eyes showed a smouldering admiration. “He doesn’t hear you,--he’s out of
it. But me--me--I hear you--I ain’t out of it,” the Girl went on in compelling
tones. “You’re a gambler; he was, too; well, so am I.” She crossed deliberately
to the bureau, and laid her pistol away in the drawer, Rance meanwhile eyeing
her with puzzled interest. Returning, she went on, incisively as a whip lash: “I
live on chance money, drink money, card money, saloon money. We’re gamblers,--
we’re all gamblers!” She paused, an odd expression coming over her face,--an
expression that baffled Rance’s power to read. Presently she resumed: “Now, you
asked me to-night if my answer was final,--well, here’s your chance. I’ll play
you the game,--straight poker. It’s two out o’ three for me. Hatin’ the sight o’
you, it’s the nearest chance you’ll ever get for me.”

“Do you mean--” began Rance, his hands resting on the table, his hawk-like
glance burning into her very thoughts. “Yes, with a wife in Noo Orleans all
right,” she interrupted him feverishly. “If you’re lucky,--you’ll git ’im an’
me. But if you lose,--this man settin’ between us is mine--mine to do with as I
please, an’ you shut up an’ lose like a gentleman.”

“You must be crazy about him!” The words seemed wrung from the Sheriff against
his will. “That’s my business!” came like a knife-cut from the Girl. “Do you
know you’re talkin’ to the Sheriff?”

“I’m talkin’ to Jack Rance, the gambler,” she amended evenly. “You’re right,--
and he’s just fool enough to take you up,” returned Rance with sudden decision.
He looked around him for a chair; there was one near the table, and the Girl
handed it to him. With one hand he swung it into place before the table, while
with the other he jerked off the table-cover, and flung it across the room.
Johnson neither moved nor groaned, as the edge slid from beneath his nerveless
arms. “You and the cyards have got into my blood. I’ll take you up,” he said,
seating himself. “Your word,” demanded the Girl, leaning over the table, but
still standing. “I can lose like a gentleman,” returned Rance curtly; then, with
a swift seizure of her hand, he continued tensely, in tones that made the Girl
shrink and whiten, “I’m hungry for you, Min, and if I win, I’ll take it out on
you as long as I have breath.”

A moment later, the Girl had freed her hand from his clasp, and was saying
evenly, “Fix the lamp.” And while the Sheriff was adjusting the wick that had
begun to flare up smokily, she swiftly left the room, saying casually over her
shoulder that she was going to fetch something from the closet. “What you goin’
to get?” he called after her suspiciously. The Girl made no reply. Rance made no
movement to follow her, but instead drew a pack of cards from his pocket and
began to shuffle them with practiced carelessness. But when a minute had passed
and the girl had not returned, he called once more, with growing impatience, to
know what was keeping her. “I’m jest gettin’ the cards an’ kind o’ steadyin’ my
nerves,” she answered somewhat queerly through the doorway. The next moment she
had returned, quickly closing the closet door behind her, blew out her candle,
and laying a pack of cards upon the table, said significantly:

“We’ll use a fresh deck. There’s a good deal depends on this, Jack.” She seated
herself opposite the Sheriff and so close to the unconscious form of the man she
loved that from time to time her left arm brushed his shoulder. Rance, without
protest other than a shrug, took up his own deck of cards, wrapped them in a
handkerchief, and stowed them away in his pocket. It was the Girl who spoke
first:

“Are you ready?”

“Ready? Yes. I’m ready. Cut for deal.”

With unfaltering fingers, the Girl cut. Of the man beside her, dead or dying,
she must not, dared not think. For the moment she had become one incarnate
purpose: to win, to win at any cost,--nothing else mattered. Rance won the deal;
and taking up the pack he asked, as he shuffled:

“A case of show-down?”

“Show-down.”

“Cut!” once more peremptorily from Rance; and then, when she had cut, one
question more: “Best two out of three?”

“Best two out of three.” Swift, staccato sentences, like the rapid crossing of
swords, the first preliminary interchange of strokes before the true duel
begins. Rance dealt the cards. Before either looked at them, he glanced across
at the Girl and asked scornfully, perhaps enviously:

“What do you see in him?”

“What do you see in me?” she flashed back instantly, as she picked up her cards;
and then: “What have you got?”

“King high,” declared the gambler. “King high here,” echoed the Girl. “Jack
next,” and he showed his hand. “Queen next,” and the Girl showed hers. “You’ve
got it,” conceded the gambler, easily. Then, in another tone, “but you’re making
a mistake--”

“If I am, it’s my mistake! Cut!”

Rance cut the cards. The Girl dealt them steadily. Then,

“What have you got?” she asked. “One pair,--aces. What have you?”

“Nothing,” throwing her cards upon the table. With just a flicker of a smile,
the Sheriff once more gathered up the pack, saying smoothly:

“Even now,--we’re even.”

“It’s the next hand that tells, Jack, ain’t it?”

“Yes.”

“It’s the next hand that tells me,--I’m awfully sorry,--” the words seemed to
come awkwardly; her glance was troubled, almost contrite, “at any rate, I want
to say jest now that no matter how it comes out--”

“Cut!” interjected Rance mechanically. “--that I’ll always think of you the best
I can,” completed the Girl with much feeling. “An’ I want you to do the same for
me.”

Silently, inscrutably, the gambler dealt the ten cards, one by one. But as the
Girl started to draw hers toward her, his long, thin fingers reached across once
more and closed not ungently upon hand and cards. “The last hand, Girl!” he
reminded her. “And I’ve a feeling that I win,--that in one minute I’ll hold you
in my arms.” And still covering her fingers with his own, he stole a glance at
his cards. “I win,” he announced, briefly, his eyes alone betraying the inward
fever. He dropped the cards before her on the table. “Three kings,--and the
_last hand_!”

Suddenly, as though some inward cord had snapped under the strain, the Girl
collapsed. Limply she slid downward in her chair, one groping hand straying
aimlessly to her forehead, then dropping of its own weight. “Quick, Jack,--I’m
ill,--git me somethin’!” The voice trailed off to nothingness as the drooping
eyelids closed. In real consternation, the Sheriff sprang to his feet. In one
sweeping glance his alert eye caught the whisky bottle upon the mantel. “All
right, Girl, I’ll fix you in no time,” he said cheeringly over his shoulder. But
where the deuce did she keep her tumblers? The next minute he was groping for
them in the dark of the adjoining closet and softly cursing himself for his own
slowness. Instantaneously, the Girl came to life. The unturned cards upon the
table vanished with one lightning movement; the Girl’s hand disappeared beneath
her skirts, raised for the moment knee-high; then the same, swift reverse
motion, and the cards were back in place, while the Girl’s eyes trembled shut
again, to hide the light of triumph in them. A smile flickered on her lips as
the Sheriff returned with the glass and bottle. “Never mind,--I’m better now,”
her lips shaped weakly. The Sheriff set down the bottle, and put his arm around
the Girl with a rough tenderness. “Oh, you only fainted because you lost,” he
told her. Averting her gaze, the Girl quietly disengaged herself, rose to her
feet and turned her five cards face upwards. “No, Jack, it’s because I’ve won,--
three aces and a pair.”

The Sheriff shot one glance at the girl, keen, searching. Then, without so much
as the twitch of an eyelid, he accepted his defeat, took a cigar from his pocket
and lit it, the flame of the match revealing no expression other than the
nonchalance for which he was noted; then, picking up his hat and coat he walked
slowly to the door. Here he halted and wished her a polite good-night--so
ceremoniously polite that at any other time it would have compelled her
admiration. Pale as death and almost on the point of collapse, the Girl
staggered back to the table where the wounded road agent was half-sitting, half-
lying. Thrusting her hand now into the stocking from which she had obtained the
winning, if incriminating, cards, she drew forth those that remained and
scattered them in the air, crying out hysterically:

“Three aces an’ a pair an’ a stockin’ full of pictures--but his life belongs to
me!”

XIV

Conscious-stricken at the fraud that she had imposed upon the gambler, the Girl
lived a lifetime in the moments that followed his departure. With her face
buried in her hands she stood lost in contemplation of her shameful secret. A
sound--the sound of a man in great pain checked her hysterical sobs. Dazed, she
passed her hand over her face as if to clear away the dark shades that were
obstructing her vision. Another groan--and like a flash she was down on her
knees lavishing endearments upon the road agent. Never before, it is true, had
the Girl had any experience in gun-shot wounds. She had played the part of
nurse, however, more than once when the boys met with accidents at the mines.
For the women of the California camps at that time had endless calls upon them.
It was a period for sacrifices innumerable, and help and sympathy were never
asked that they were not freely given. So, if the Girl did not know the very
best thing to do, she knew, at least, what not to do, and it was only a few
minutes before she had cut the coat from his back. The next thing to be done--
the dragging of the unconscious man to the bed--was hard work, of course, but
being strong of arm, as well as stout of heart, she at last accomplished it. Now
she cut away his shirt in order to find the wound, which proved to be in his
breast. Quickly then she felt with her fingers in an endeavour to find the ball,
but in this she was unsuccessful. So after a moment’s deliberation she made up
her mind that the wound was a flesh one and that the ball was anywhere but in
the man’s body--a diagnosis that was largely due to the cheerful optimism of her
nature and which, fortunately, proved to be true. Presently she went to a corner
of the room and soon returned with a basin of water and some hastily torn
bandages. For a good fifteen minutes after that she washed the gash and,
finally, bandaged it as well as she knew how. And now, having done all that her
knowledge or instinct prompted, she drew up a chair and prepared to pass the
rest of the night in watching by his side. For an hour or so he slept the sleep
of unconsciousness. In the room not a sound could be heard, but outside the
storm still roared and raged. It was anything but an easy or cheerful situation:
Here she was alone with a wounded, if not dying, man; and she well knew that,
unless there came an abatement in the fury of the storm, it might be days before
anyone could climb the mountain. True, the Indians were not far off, but like as
not they would remain in their wigwam until the sun came forth again. In the
matter of food there was a scant supply, but probably enough to tide them over
until communication could be had with The Polka. For three days she watched over
him, and all the time the storm continued. On the third day he became delirious,
and that was the night of her torture. Despite a feeling that she was taking an
unfair advantage of him, the Girl strained her ears to catch a name which, in
his delirium, was constantly on his lips; but she could not make it out. All
that she knew was that it was not her name that he spoke, and it pained her. She
had given him absolute faith and trust and, already, she was overwhelmed with
the fierce flames of jealousy. It was a new sensation, this being jealous of
anyone, and it called forth a passionate resentment. In such moments she would
rise and flee to the other end of the room until the whispered endearments had
ceased. Then she would draw near again with flushes of shame on her cheeks for
having heeded the sayings of an irresponsible person, and she would take his
head in her lap and, caressing him the while, would put cold towels on his
heated brow. Dawn of the fourth day saw the Girl still pale and anxious, though
despair had entirely left her; for the storm was over and colour and speech had
come back to the man early that morning. Love and good nursing, not to speak of
some excellent whisky that she happened to have stored away in her cabin, had
pulled him through. With a sigh of relief she threw herself down on the rug for
a much-needed rest. The man woke just before the sun rose. His first thought,
that he was home in the foothills, was dissipated by the sight of the snow
ranges. Through the window of the cabin, as far as the eye could see, nothing of
green was visible. Snow was everywhere; everything was white, save at the
eastern horizon where silver was fast changing into rose and rose to a fiery red
as the fast-rising sun sent its shafts over the snow-coated mountains. And now
there came to him a full realisation of what had happened and where he was. To
his amazement, though, he was almost without pain. That his wound had been
dressed he was, of course, well aware for when he attempted to draw back still
further the curtain at the window the movement strained the tight bandage, and
he was instantly made conscious of a twinge of pain. Nevertheless, he
persevered, for he wisely decided that it would be well to reconnoitre, to
familiarise himself, as much as possible, with the lay of the land and find out
whether the trail that he had followed to reach the cabin which, he recalled,
was perched high up above a ravine, was the only means of communication with the
valley below. It was a useless precaution, for the snow would have wholly
obliterated any such trail had there been one and, soon realising the fact, he
fell back exhausted by his effort on the pillows. A half hour passed and the man
began to grow restless. He had, of course, no idea whatever of the length of
time he had been in the cabin, and he knew that he must be thinking of an
immediate escape. In desperation, he tried to get out of bed, but the task was
beyond his power. At that a terrible feeling of hopelessness assailed him. His
only chance was to reach the valley where he had little fear of capture; but
wounded, as he was, that seemed out of the question, and he saw himself caught
like a rat in a trap. In an access of rage at the situation in which he was
placed he made another effort to raise himself up on his elbow and peer through
the window at the Sierras. The noise that he made, slight though it was, awoke
the Girl. In an instant she was at his bedside drawing the curtain over the
window. “What you thinkin’ of?” she asked “At any moment--jest as soon as the
trail can be cleared--there’ll be someone of the boys up here to see how I’ve
pulled through. They mustn’t see you....”

Forcibly, but with loving tenderness, she put him back among his pillows and
seated herself by the bed. An awkward silence followed. For now that the man was
in his right senses it was borne in upon her that he might remember that she had
fed him, given him drink and fondled him. It was a situation embarrassing to
both. Neither knew just what to say or how to begin. At length, the voice from
the bed spoke:

“How long have I been here?”

“Three days.”

“And you have nursed me all that--”

“You mustn’t talk,” warned the girl. “It’s dangerous in more ways than one. But
if you keep still no one’ll suspect that you’re here.”

“But I must know what happened,” he insisted with increasing excitement. “I
remember nothing after I came down the ladder. The Sheriff--Rance--what’s
become...?”

The Girl chided him with gentle authority. “You keep perfectly still--you
mustn’t say nothin’ ’til you’ve rested. Everythin’s all right an’ you needn’t
worry a bit.” But then seeing that he chafed at this, she added: “Well, then,
I’ll tell you all there is to know.” And then followed an account of the
happenings of that night. It was not a thoroughly truthful tale, for in her
narrative she told him only what she thought was necessary and good for him to
know, keeping the rest to herself. And when she had related all that there was
to tell she insisted upon his going to sleep again, giving him no opportunity
whatsoever to speak, since she left his bedside after drawing the curtains.
Unwillingly the man lay back and tried to force himself to be patient; but he
fretted at the enforced quietude and, as a result, sleep refused to come to him.
From time to time he could hear the Girl moving noiselessly about the room. The
knowledge that she was there gave him a sense of security, and he began to let
his thoughts dwell upon her. No longer did he doubt but what she was a real
influence now; and the thought had the effect of making him keenly alive to what
his life had been. It was not a pleasant picture that he looked back upon, now
that he had caught a glimpse of what life might mean with the Girl at his side.
From the moment that he had taken her in his arms he realised to the full that
his cherished dream had come true; he realised, also, that there was now but one
answer to the question of keeping to the oath given to his father, and that was
that gratitude--for he had guessed rightly, though she had not told him, that
she had saved him from capture by the Sheriff and his posse--demanded that he
should put an end to his vocation and devote his life henceforth to making her
happy. Once or twice while thus communing with himself he fancied that he heard
voices. It seemed to him that he recognised Nick’s voice. But whoever it was, he
spoke in whispers, and though the wounded man strove to hear, he was
unsuccessful. After a while he heard the door close and then the tension was
somewhat relaxed, for he knew that she was keeping his presence in her cabin a
secret with all the wiles of a clever and loving woman. And more and more he
determined to gain an honoured place for her in some community--an honoured
place for himself and her. Vague, very vague, of course, were the new purposes
and plans that had so suddenly sprang up because of her influence, but the
desire to lead a clean life had touched his heart, and since his old calling had
never been pleasing to him, he did not for a moment doubt his ability to
succeed. The morning was half gone when the Girl returned to her patient. Then,
in tones that did her best to make her appear free from anxiety, she told him
that it was the barkeeper, as he had surmised, with whom she had been talking
and that she had been obliged to take him into her confidence. The man made no
comment, for the situation necessarily was in her hands, and he felt that she
could be relied upon not to make any mistake. Four people, he was told, knew of
his presence in the cabin. So far as Rance was concerned she had absolute faith
in his honour, gambler though he was; there was nothing that Nick would not do
for her; and as for the Indians, the secret was sure to be kept by them, unless
Jackrabbit got hold of some whisky--a contingency not at all likely, for Nick
had promised to see to that. In fact, all could be trusted to be as silent as
the grave. The invalid had listened intently; nevertheless, he sighed:

“It’s hard to lie here. I don’t want to be caught _now_.”

The Girl smiled at the emphasis on the last word, for she knew that it referred
to her. Furthermore, she had divined pretty well what had been his thoughts
concerning his old life; but, being essentially a woman of action and not words,
she said nothing. A moment or so later he asked her to read to him. The Girl
looked as she might have looked if he had asked her to go to the moon.
Notwithstanding, she got up and, presently, returned with a lot of old school-
books, which she solemnly handed over for his inspection. The invalid smiled at
the look of earnestness on the Girl’s face. “Not these?” he gently inquired.
“Where is the Dante you were telling me about?”

Once more the Girl went over to the book-shelf; when she came back she handed
him a volume, which he glanced over carefully before showing her the place where
he wished her to begin to read to him. At first the Girl was embarrassed and
stumbled badly. But on seeing that he seemed not to notice it she gained courage
and acquitted herself creditably, at least, so she flattered herself, for she
could detect, as she looked up from time to time, no expression other than
pleasure on his face. It may be surmised, though, that Johnson had not merely
chosen a page at random; on the contrary, when the book was in his hand he had
quickly found the lines which the Girl had, so to say, paraphrased, and he was
intensely curious to see how they would appeal to her. But now, apparently, she
saw nothing in the least amusing in them, nor in other passages fully as
sentimental. In fact, no comment of any kind was forthcoming from her--though
Johnson was looking for it and, to tell the truth, was somewhat disappointed--
when she read that Dante had probably never spoken more than twice to Beatrice
and his passion had no other food than the mists of his own dreaming. However,
it was different when,--pausing before each word after the manner of a child,--
she came to a passage of the poet’s, and read:

“‘In that moment I say most truly that the spirit of life, which hath its
dwelling in the most secret chambers of the heart, began to tremble so violently
that the least pulse of my body shook herewith, and in the trembling it said
these words: “Here is a deity stronger than I who, coming shall rule over me.”’”

At that the Girl let the book fall and, going down on her knees and taking both
his hands in hers, she raised to him a look so full of adoring worship that he
felt himself awed before it. “That ’ere Dante ain’t so far off after all. I know
jest how he feels. Oh, I ain’t fit to read to you, to talk to you, to kiss you.”

Nevertheless, he saw to it that she did. After this he told her about the
Inferno, and she listened eagerly to his description of the unfortunate
characters, though she declared, when he explained some of the crimes that they
had committed, that they “Got only what was rightly comin’ to them.”

The patient could hardly suppress his amusement. Dante was discarded and instead
they told each other how much love there was in that little cabin on Cloudy
Mountain. The days that followed were all much like this one. Food was brought
up from The Polka and, by degrees, the patient’s strength came back. And it was
but natural that he became so absorbed in his newly-found happiness that he
gradually was losing all sense of danger. Late one night, however, when he was
asleep, an incident happened that warned the Girl that it was necessary to get
her lover away just as soon as he was able to ride a horse. Lying on the rug in
front of the fire she had been thinking of him when, suddenly, her quick ear,
more than ever alert in these days, caught the sound of a stealthy footstep
outside the cabin. With no fear whatever except in relation to the discovery of
her lover, the Girl went noiselessly to the window and peered out into the
darkness. A man was making signs that he wished to speak with her. For a moment
she stood watching in perplexity, but almost instantly her instinct told her
that one of that race, for she believed the man to be a Mexican, would never
dare to come to her cabin at that time of night unless it was on a friendly
errand. So putting her face close to the pane to reassure herself that she had
not been mistaken in regard to his nationality, she then went to the door and
held it wide open for the man to enter, at the same time putting her finger to
her lips as a sign that he should be very still. “What are you doin’ here? What
do you want?” she asked in a low voice, at the same time leading him to the side
of the room further away from her lover. Jose Castro’s first words were in
Spanish, but immediately perceiving that he failed to make her understand, he
nodded comprehendingly, and said:

“All righta--I espeak Engleesh--I am Jose Castro too well known to the
_Maestro_. I want to see ’im.”

The Girl’s intuition told her that a member of the band stood before her, and
she regarded him suspiciously. Not that she believed that he was disloyal and
had come there with hostile intent, but because she felt that she must be
absolutely sure of her ground before she revealed the fact that Johnson was in
the cabin. She let some moments pass before she replied:

“I don’t know nothin’ about your master. Who is he?”

An indulgent smile crossed the Mexican’s face. “That ver’ good to tella other
peoples; but I know ’im here too much. You trusta me--me quita safe.”

All this was said with many gestures and an air that convinced the Girl that he
was speaking the truth. But since she deemed it best that the invalid should be
kept from any excitement, she resolved to make the Mexican divulge to her the
nature of his important errand. “How do you know he’s here?” she began warily.
“What do you want ’im for?”

The Mexican’s shifty eyes wandered all over the room as if to make certain that
no inimical ears were listening; then he whispered:

“I tella you something--you lika the _Maestro_?”

Unconsciously the Girl nodded, which evidently satisfied the Mexican, for he
went on:

“You thinka well of him--yees. Now I tella you something. The man Pedro ’e no
good. ’E wisha the reward--the money for Ramerrez. ’E and the woman--woman no
good--tell Meester Ashby they thinka ’im ’ere.”

The Girl felt the colour leave her cheeks, though she made a gesture for him to
proceed. “Pedro not ’ere any longer,” smiled the Mexican. “Me senda ’im to the
devil. Serva ’im right.”

“An’ the woman?” gasped the Girl. “She gone--got away--Monterey by this time,”
replied Castro with evident disappointment. “But Meester Ashby ’e know too
much--’ees men everywhere searched the camp--no safa ’ere now. To-morrow--”
Castro stopped short; the next instant with a joyful gleam in his eyes he cried
out: “_Maestro!_”

“Castro’s right, Girl,” said Johnson, who had waked and heard the Mexican’s last
words; “it is not safe a moment more here, and I must go.”

With a little cry of loving protest the Girl abruptly left the men to talk over
the situation and sought the opposite side of the room. There, her eyes half-
closed and her lips pressed tightly together she gave herself up to her
distressing fears. After a while it was made plain to her that she was being
brought into the conversation, for every now and then Castro would look
curiously at her; at length, as if it had been determined by them that nothing
should be undertaken without her advice, Johnson, followed by his subordinate,
came over to her and related in detail all the startling information that Castro
had brought. Quietly the Girl listened and, in the end, it was agreed between
them that it would be safer for the men not to leave the cabin together, but
that Castro should go at once with the understanding that he should procure
horses and wait for the master at a given point across the ravine. It was
decided, too, that there was not a moment to be lost in putting their plan into
execution. In consequence, Castro immediately took his departure. The hour that
passed before the time set for Johnson to leave the cabin was a most trying one
for both of them. It was not so hard on the man, of course, for he was excited
over the prospect of escaping; but the Girl, whose mind was filled with the
dread of what might happen to him, had nothing to sustain her. Despite his
objection, she had stipulated that, with Jackrabbit as a companion, she should
accompany him to the outskirts of the camp. And so, at the moment of departure,
throwing about her a cloak of some rough material, she went up to her lover and
said with a quiver in her voice:

“I’m ready, Dick, but I’m a-figurin’ that I can’t let you go alone--you jest got
to take me below with you, an’ that’s all there is to it.”

The man shook his head. “There’s very little risk, believe me. I’ll join Castro
and ride all through the night. I’ll be down below in no time at all. But we
must be going, dear.”

The man passed through the door first. But when it came the Girl’s turn she
hesitated, for she had seen a dark shadow flit by the window. It was as if
someone had been stealthily watching there. In another moment, however, it
turned out to be Jackrabbit and, greatly relieved, the Girl whispered to Johnson
that he was to descend the trail between the Indian and herself, and that on no
account was he to utter a word until she gave him permission. For another moment
or so they stood in silence; Johnson, appreciating fully what were the Girl’s
feelings, did not dare to whisper even a word of encouragement to her. At last,
she ordered the Indian to lead the way, and they started. The trail curved and
twisted around the mountain, and in places they had to use the greatest care
lest a misstep should carry them over a precipice with a drop of hundreds of
feet. It was a perilous descent, inasmuch as the path was covered with snow.
Moreover, it was necessary that as little noise as possible should be made while
they were making their way past the buildings of the camp below, for the Mexican
had not been wrong when he stated that Ashby’s men were quartered at, or in the
immediate vicinity of, The Palmetto. Fortunately, they passed through without
meeting anyone, and before long they came to the edge of the plateau beneath
which was the ravine which Johnson had to cross to reach the spot where it had
been agreed that Castro should be waiting with horses for his master. It was
also the place where the Girl was to leave her lover to go on alone, and so they
halted. A few moments passed without either of them speaking; at length, the man
said in as cheery a voice as he could summon:

“I must leave you here. I remember the way well. All danger is past.”

The Girl’s lips were quivering; she asked:

“An’ when will you be back?”

The man noted her emotion, and though he himself was conscious of a choking
sensation he contrived to say in a most optimistic tone:

“In two weeks--not more than two weeks. It will take all that time to arrange
things at the rancho. As it is, I hardly see my way clear to dismissing my men--
you see, they belong to me, almost, and--but I’ll do so, never fear. No power on
earth could make me take up the old life again.”

The Girl said nothing in reply; instead she put both her arms around his neck
and remained a long time in his embrace. At last, summoning up all her fortitude
she put him resolutely from her, and whispered:

“When you are ready, come. You must leave me now.” And with a curt command to
the Indian she fled back into the darkness. For an instant the road agent’s eyes
followed the direction that she had taken; then, his spirits rising at the
thought that his escape was now well-nigh assured, he turned and plunged down
the ravine. XV

As has been said, it was a custom of the miners, whenever a storm made it
impossible for them to work in the mines, to turn the dance-hall of the Polka
Saloon into an Academy, the post of teacher being filled by the Girl. It
happened, therefore, that early the following morning the men of Cloudy Mountain
Camp assembled in the low, narrow room with its walls of boards nailed across
inside upright beams--a typical miners’ dance-hall of the late Forties--which
they had transformed into a veritable bower, so eager were they to please their
lovely teacher. Everyone was in high spirits, Rance alone refraining from taking
any part whatsoever in the morning’s activities; dejectedly, sullenly, he sat
tilted back in an old, weather-beaten, lumber chair before the heavily-dented,
sheet-iron stove in a far corner of the room, gazing abstractedly up towards the
stove’s rusty pipe that ran directly through the ceiling; and what with his
pale, waxen countenance, his eyes red and half-closed for the want of sleep, his
hair ruffled, his necktie awry, his waistcoat unfastened, his boots unpolished,
and the burnt-out cigar which he held between his white, emaciated fingers, he
was not the immaculate-looking Rance of old, but presented a very sad spectacle
indeed. Outside, through the windows,--over which had been hung curtains of red
and yellow cotton,--could be seen the green firs on the mountain, their branches
dazzling under their burden of snow crystals; and stretching out seemingly
interminably until the line of earth and sky met were the great hills white with
snow except in the spots where the wind had swept it away. But within the
little, low dance-hall, everywhere were evidences of festivity and good cheer,
the walls being literally covered with pine boughs and wreaths of berries, while
here and there was an eagle’s wing or an owl’s head, a hawk or a vulture, a
quail or a snow-bird, not to mention the big, stuffed game cock that was mounted
on a piece of weather-beaten board, until it would seem as if every variety of
bird native to the Sierra Mountains was represented there. Grouped together on
one side of the wall were twelve buck horns, and these served as a sort of rack
for the miners to hang their hats and coats during the school session. Several
mottoes, likewise upon the wall, were intended to attract the students’
attention, the most conspicuous being: “Live and Learn” and “God Bless Our
School.” A great bear’s skin formed a curtain between the dance-hall and the
saloon, while upon the door-frame was a large hand rudely painted, the index-
finger out-stretched and pointing to the next room. It said: “To The Bar.”

It was, however, upon the teacher’s desk--a whittled-up, hand-made affair which
stood upon a slightly-raised platform--that the boys had outdone themselves in
the matter of decoration. Garlanded both on top and around the sides with pine
boughs and upon the centre of which stood a tall glass filled with red and white
berries, it looked not unlike a sacrificial altar which, in a way, it certainly
was. A box that was intended for a seat for the teacher was also decorated with
pine branches; while several cheap, print flags adorned the primitive iron
holder of the large lamp suspended from the ceiling in the centre of the room.
Altogether it was a most festive-looking Academy that was destined to meet the
teacher’s eye on this particular morning. For some time Nick had been standing
near the window gazing in the direction of the Girl’s cabin. Turning, suddenly,
to Rance, the only other occupant of the room, he remarked somewhat sadly:

“I’d be willin’ to lose the profits of the bar if we could git back to a week
ago--before Johnson walked into this room.”

At the mention of the road agent’s name Rance’s eyes dropped to the floor. It
required no flash of inspiration to tell him that things would never be what
they had been. “Johnson,” he muttered, his face ashen white and a sound in his
throat that was something like a groan. “A week--a week in her cabin--nursed and
kissed....” he finished shortly. Nick had been helping himself to a drink; he
wheeled swiftly round, confronting him. “Oh, say, Rance, she--”

Rance took the words out of his mouth. “Never kissed him! You bet she kissed
him! It was all I could do to keep from telling the whole camp he was up there.”
His eyes blazed and his hands tightened convulsively. “But you didn’t....” Nick
broke in on him quickly. “If I hadn’t been let into the game by the Girl I’d a
thought you were a level Sheriff lookin’ for him. Rance, you’re my ideal of a
perfect gent.”

Rance braced up in his chair. “What did she see in that Sacramento shrimp, will
you tell me?” presently he questioned, contempt showing on every line of his
face. The little barkeeper did not answer at once, but filled a glass with
whisky which he handed to him. “Well, you see, I figger it out this way, boss,”
at last he answered, meeting him face to face frankly, earnestly, his foot the
while resting on the other’s chair. “Love’s like a drink that gits a hold on you
an’ you can’t quit. It’s a turn of the head or a touch of the hands, or it’s a
half sort of smile, an’ you’re doped, doped, doped with a feelin’ like strong
liquor runnin’ through your veins, an’ there ain’t nothin’ on earth can break it
up once you’ve got the habit. That’s love.”

Touched by the little barkeeper’s droll philosophy, the Sheriff dropped his head
on his breast, while the hand which held the glass unconsciously fell to his
side. “I’ve got it,” went on Nick with enthusiasm; “you’ve got it; the boy’s got
it; the Girl’s got it; the whole damn world’s got it. It’s all the heaven there
is on earth, an’ in nine cases out of ten it’s hell.”

Rance opened his lips to speak, but quickly drew them in tightly. The next
instant Nick touched him lightly on the shoulder and pointed to the empty glass
in his hand, the contents having run out upon the floor. With a mere glance at
the empty glass Rance returned it to Nick. Presently, then, he took out his
watch and fell to studying its face intently, and only when he had finally
returned the watch to his pocket did he voice what was in his mind. “Well,
Nick,” he said, “her road agent’s got off by now.”

Whereupon, the barkeeper, too, took out his watch and consulted it. “Left Cloudy
at three o’clock this morning--five hours off....” was his brief comment. Once
more a silence fell upon the room. Then, all of a sudden, the sound of horses’
hoofs and the murmur of rough voices came to their ears, and almost instantly a
voice was heard to cry out:

“Hello!”

“Hello!” came from an answering voice. “Why, it’s The Pony Express got through
at last!” announced Nick, incredulously; and so saying he took up the whisky
bottle and glasses which lay on the teacher’s desk and dashed into the saloon.
He had barely left, however, than The Pony Express, muffled up to his ears and
looking fit to brave the fiercest of storms, entered the room, hailing the boys
with:

“Hello, boys! Letter for Ashby!”

The Deputy--who with Trinidad and Sonora had come running in, the latter
carrying a boot-leg and a stove-polishing brush in his hand--took the letter and
started in search of the Wells Fargo Agent who, Rance had told them, had gone to
sleep. “Well, boys, how d’you like bein’ snowed in for a week?” asked The Pony
Express, warming himself by the stove; and then without waiting for an answer he
rattled on: “There’s a rumour at The Ridge that you all let Ramerrez freeze an’
missed a hangin’. Say, they’re roarin’ at you, chaps!” And with a “So long,
boys!” he strode out of the room. Sonora started in hot pursuit after him,
hollering out:

“Wait! Wait!” And when The Pony Express halted, he added: “Says you to the boys
at The Ridge as you ride by, the Academy at Cloudy is open to-day full blast!”

“Whoopee! Whoop!” chimed in Trinidad and began to execute a _pas seul_ in the
middle of the room, dropping into a chair just in time to avoid running into
Nick, who hurriedly returned with two glasses and a bottle. “Help yourselves,
boys,” he said; which they did to the accompaniment of a succession of joyous
yells from Trinidad. Meantime Rance had relighted the burnt-out cigar which he
had been holding for some time between his fingers, and was sending curls of
smoke upwards towards the ceiling. “Academy,” he sneered. Sonora surveyed him
critically for some moments; at length he said:

“Say, Rance, what’s the matter with you? We began this Academy game together--we
boys an’ the Girl--an’ there’s a damn pretty piece of sentiment back of it.
She’s taught some of us our letters, and--”

“He’s a wearin’ mournin’ because Johnson didn’t fall alive into his hands,”
interposed Trinidad with a laugh. “Is that it?” queried Sonora. “Ain’t it
enough, Rance, that he must be lyin’ dead down some canyon, with his mouth full
of snow?” A mocking smile was on Trinidad’s face as he asked the question. “You
done all you could to git ’im,” went on Sonora as if there had been no
interruption. “The boys is all satisfied he’s dead.”

“Dead?” Rance fairly picked up the word. “Dead? Yes, he’s dead,” he declared
tensely, and unconsciously arose and went over to the window where he stood
motionless, gazing through the parted curtains at the snow-covered hills.
Presently the boys saw a cynical smile spread over his face, and a moment later,
he added: “The matter with me is that I’m a Chink.”

This depreciation of himself was so thoroughly un-Rance like, that it brought
forth great bursts of laughter from the men, but notwithstanding which, Rance
went on to admit, in the same sullen tone, that it was all up with him and the
Girl. “Throwed ’im!” whispered Trinidad to Sonora with a pleased look on his
face. Sonora, likewise, was beaming with joy when almost instantly he turned to
Nick with:

“As sure’s you live she’s throwed ’im for me!”

Nick, among his other accomplishments, had a faculty for dumbness and said
nothing; but a smile which approached a grin formed on his face as he stood
eyeing quizzically first one and then the other. Finally, picking up the empty
glasses, he left the room. “Will old dog Tray remember me”--immediately sung out
Trinidad, gleefully. While Sonora, in the seventh heaven of delight, began to
caper about the room. Of a sudden Nick poked his head in through the door to
inquire into the cause of their hilarity, but they ignored him completely. At
the bar-room door, however, Sonora halted and, glancing over his shoulder in the
Sheriff’s direction, he added in a most tantalising manner:

“ ... for me!”

But while Trinidad and Sonora were going out through one door the Deputy was
entering through another. He was greatly agitated and carried in his hand the
letter which The Pony Express had entrusted to his keeping for Ashby. “Why,
Ashby’s skipped!” he announced uneasily. “Got off just after three this morning
--posse and all.”

A question was in Nick’s eyes as he turned upon the speaker with the
interjection:

“What!” And then as the Deputy made a dash for the bar-room, he added with a
swift change of manner: “Help yourself, Dep.”

But if Nick was slow to realise the situation, not so the Sheriff, who instantly
awoke to the fact that the Wells Fargo Agent was on Johnson’s trail. His lips
drew quickly back in a half-grin. “Ashby’s after Johnson,” presently he said
with a savage little laugh. “Nick, he was watchin’ that greaser.... Took him ten
minutes to saddle up--Johnson has ten minutes’ start”--He broke off abruptly and
ended impatiently with: “Oh, Lord, they’ll never get him! He’s a wonder on the
road--you’ve got to take your hat off to the damn cuss!” And with a dig at the
other’s ribs that was half-playful, half-serious, he was off in pursuit of
Ashby. A moment later the miners began to pile in for school, whooping and
yelling, their feet covered with snow. Sonora lead with an armful of wood, which
he deposited on the floor beside the stove; then came Handsome Charlie and Happy
Halliday, together with Old Steady and Bill Crow, who immediately dropped on all
fours and began to play leapfrog. “Boys gatherin’ for school,” observed
Trinidad, hurriedly opening the door; and while the men proceeded to flock in,
he got into his jacket which lay on a chair beside the teacher’s desk. “Here,
Trin, here’s the book!” cried out Happy Halliday; and the book, which was
securely tied in a red cotton handkerchief, went flying through the air. In
those few words the signal was given; the fun was on in earnest. Instantly the
miners--veritable school-boys they were, so genuine was their merriment--braced
themselves for a catch of the book, which had landed safely in Trinidad’s hands.
Now it was aimed at Sonora, who caught it on the fly; from Sonora it travelled
to Old Steady, who sent it whizzing over to Handsome. Now the Deputy made ready
to receive it; but instead it landed once more in Sonora’s hands amidst cheers
of “Come on, Sonora! Whoopee! Whoop!”

“Sh-sh-sh, boys!” warned the Deputy as Sonora was about to send the book on
another expedition through the air; “here comes the noo scholar from Watson’s.”

An ominous hush fell upon the room. One could have heard a pin drop as the
school settled itself down with anticipatory grins that said, “What won’t we do
to Bucking Billy!” Therefore, there was not an eye that was not upon the new
pupil when with dinner-pail swinging on one arm and the other holding tightly
onto a small slate, he slowly advanced towards them. “Did you ever play Lame
Soldier, m’ friend?” was Sonora’s greeting, while the miners crowded around
them. “No,” replied the big, raw-boned, gullible-looking fellow with a grin.
“We’ll play it after school; you’ll be the stirrup,” promised Sonora; then
turning to his mates with a laugh, which was unobserved by Bucking Billy, he
added: “We’ll initiate ’im.”

Presently the miners began to move away and Trinidad, picking up a chip which he
espied under a bench, put it on his shoulder and stood in the centre of the
room, thereby indirectly challenging the new pupil to a scrimmage. “Don’t do
it!” cried Old Steady as he hung up his hat upon a buck’s horn on the wall. “Go
on! Go on!” encouraged Bill Crow, hanging up his hat beside Old Steady’s. The
boys took up his words in chorus. “Go on! Go on!”

Whereupon, Sonora made a dash for the chip and knocked it off of Trinidad’s
shoulder, blazing huskily into his face as he did so:

“You do, do you?”

In the twinkling of an eye Trinidad’s jacket was off and the two men were
engaged in a hand-to-hand scuffle. “Soak him!” came from a voice somewhere in
the crowd. “Hit him!” urged another. “Bat him in the eye!” shrieked Handsome
Charlie. Finally Sonora succeeded in throwing down his opponent and sent him
rolling along the floor, the contents of his pockets marking his trail. The
rafters of The Polka shook to a storm of cheering, and there is no telling when
the men would have ceased had not Nick interfered at that moment by yelling out:

“Boys, boys, here she is!”

“Here comes the Girl!” came simultaneously from Happy Halliday, who had got a
glimpse of her coming down the trail. None the worse for his defeat and fall,
Trinidad sprang to his feet; while Sonora made a dash for a seat. They had not
been placed; whereupon he cried out excitedly:

“The seats, boys, where’s the seats?”

For the few minutes that preceded the Girl’s entrance into the room no men were
ever known to work more rapidly or more harmoniously. They fairly flew in and
out of the room, now bringing in the great whittled-up, weather-beaten benches
and placing them in school-room fashion, and then rolling in boxes and casks
which served as a ground-hold for the planks which were stretched across them
for desks. It was in the midst of these pilgrimages that Trinidad rushed over to
Nick to ask whether he did not think to-day a good time to put the question to
the Girl. Nick’s eyes twinkled up with merriment; nevertheless, his face took on
a dubious look when presently he answered:

“I wouldn’t rush her, Trin--you’ve got plenty of time....” And when he proceeded
to put up the blackboard he almost ran into Sonora, who stood by the teacher’s
desk getting into his frock coat. “Hurry up, boys, hurry up!” urged Trinidad,
though he himself smilingly looked on. A moment later the Girl, carrying a small
book of poems, walked quietly into their midst. She was paler and not as buoyant
as usual, but she managed to appear cheerful when she said:

“Hello, boys!”

The men were all smiles and returned her greeting with:

“Hello, Girl!”

Then followed the presentation of their offerings--mere trifles, to be sure, but
given out of the fulness of their hearts. Sonora led with a bunch of berries,
which was followed by Trinidad with an orange. “From ’Frisco,” he said simply,
watching the effect of his words with pride. A bunch of berries was also Happy’s
contribution, which he made with a stiff little bow and the one word:

“Regards.”

Meantime Nick, faithful friend that he was, went down on his knees and began to
remove the Girl’s moccasins. The knowledge of his proximity encouraged the Girl
to glance about her to see if she could detect any signs on the men’s faces
which would prove that they suspected the real truth concerning her absence.
Needless to say adoration and love was all that she saw; nevertheless, she felt
ill-at-ease and, unconsciously, repeated:

“Hello, boys!” And then added, a little more bravely: “How’s everythin’?”

“Bully!” spoke up Handsome Charlie, who was posing for her benefit, as was his
wont, beside one of the desks. “Say, we missed you,” acknowledged Sonora with a
world of tenderness in his voice. “Never knew you to desert The Polka for a
whole week before.”

“No, I--I ...” stammered guiltily, and with their little gifts turned abruptly
towards her desk lest she should meet their gaze. “Academy’s opened,” suddenly
announced Happy, “and--”

“Yes, I see it is,” quickly answered the Girl, brushing away a tear that
persisted in clinging to her eyelids; slowly, now, she drew off her gloves and
laid them on the desk. “I guess I’m kind o’ nervous to-day, boys,” she began.
“No wonder,” observed Sonora. “Road agent’s been in camp an’ we missed a
hangin’. I can’t git over that.”

All a-quiver and not daring to meet the men’s gaze, much less to discuss the
road agent with them, the Girl endeavoured to hide her confusion by asking Nick
to help her off with her cape. Turning presently she said in a strained voice:

“Well, come on, boys--come, now!”

Immediately the boys fell in line for the opening exercises, which consisted of
an examination by the Girl of their general appearance. “Let me see your hands,”
she said to the man nearest to her; a glance was sufficient, and he was expelled
from her presence. “Let me see yours, Sonora,” she commanded. Holding his hands
behind his back the man addressed moved towards her slowly, for he was conscious
of the grime that was on them. Before he had spoken his apology she ordered him
none too gently to go and wash them, ending with an emphatic:

“Git!”

“Yes’m,” was his meek answer, though he called back as he disappeared: “Been
blackenin’ my boots.”

The Girl took up the word quickly. “Boots! Yes, an’ look at them boots!” And as
each man came up to her, “An’ them boots! an’ them boots! Get in there the whole
lot o’ you an’ be sure that you leave your whisky behind.”

When all had left the room save Nick, who stood with her cape on his arm near
the desk she suddenly became conscious that she still had her hood on, and at
once began to remove it--a proceeding which brought out clearly the
extraordinary pallor of her face which, generally, had a bright, healthy
colouring. Now she beckoned to Nick to draw near. No need for her to speak, for
he had caught the questioning look in her eyes, and it told him plainer than any
words that she was anxious to hear of her lover. He was about to tell her the
little he knew when with lips that trembled she finally whispered:

“Have you heard anythin’? Do you think he got through safe?”

Nick nodded in the affirmative. “I saw ’im off, you know,” she went on in the
same low voice; then, before Nick could speak, she concluded anxiously: “But
s’pose he don’t git through?”

“Oh, he’ll git through sure! We’ll hear he’s out of this country pretty quick,”
consoled the little barkeeper just as Rance, unperceived by them, quietly
entered the room and went over to a chair by the stove. XVI

No man had more of a dread of the obvious than the Sheriff. His position, he
felt, was decidedly an unpleasant one. Nevertheless, in the silence that
followed the Girl’s discovery of his presence, he struggled to appear his old
self. He was by no means unconscious of the fact that he had omitted his usual
cordial greeting to her, and he felt that she must be scrutinising him, feature
by feature. When, therefore, he shot a covert glance at her, it was with
surprise that he saw an appealing look in her eyes. “Oh, Jack, I want to thank
you--” she began, but stopped quickly, deterred by the hard expression that
instantly spread itself over the Sheriff’s face. Resentment, all the more bitter
because he believed it to be groundless, followed hard on the heels of her words
which he thought to be inspired solely by a delicate tactfulness. “Oh, don’t
thank me that he got away,” he said icily. “It was the three aces and the pair
you held--”

This was the Girl’s opportunity; she seized it. “About the three aces, I want to
say that--”

It was Rance’s turn to interrupt, which he did brutally. “He’d better keep out
of my country, that’s all.”

“Yes, yes.”

To the Girl, any reference to her lover was a stab. Her face was pale with her
terrible anxiety; notwithstanding, the contrast of her pallid cheeks and masses
of golden hair gave her a beauty which Rance, as he met her eyes, found so
extraordinarily tempting that he experienced a renewed fury at his utter
helplessness. At the point, however, when it would seem from his attitude that
all his self-control was about to leave him, the Girl picked up the bell on the
desk and rang it vigorously. Began then the long procession of miners walking
around the room before taking their seats on the benches. At their head was
Happy Halliday, who carried in his hands a number of slates, the one on the top
having a large sponge attached. These were all more or less in bad condition,
some having no frames, while others were mere slits of slate, but all had slate-
pencils fastened to them by strings. “Come along, boys, get your slates!” sang
out Happy as he left the line and let the others file past him. “Whoop!”
vociferated Trinidad in a burst of enthusiasm. “Trin, you’re out o’ step there!”
reprimanded the teacher a little sharply; and then addressing Happy she ordered
him to take his place once more in the line. In a little while they were all
seated, and now, at last, it seemed to the barkeeper as if the air of the room
had been freed of its tension. No longer did he experience a sense of alertness,
a feeling that something out of the ordinary was going to happen, and it was
with immense relief that he heard the Girl take up her duties and ask:

“What books were left from last year?”

At first no one was able to give a scrap of information on this important
matter; maybe it was because all lips were too dry to open; in the end, however,
when the silence was becoming embarrassing, Happy moistened his lips with his
tongue, and answered:

“Why, we scared up jest a whole book left. The name of it is--is--is--” The
effort was beyond his mental powers and he came to a helpless pause. Swelling
with importance, and drawing forth the volume in question from his pocket,
Sonora stood up and finished:

“--is ‘Old Joe Miller’s Jokes.’”

“That will do nicely,” declared the Girl and seated herself on the pine-
decorated box. “Now, boys,” continued Sonora, ever the most considerate of
pupils, “before we begin I propose no drawin’ of weppings, drinkin’ or swearin’
in school hours. The conduct of certain members wore on teacher last term. I
don’t want to mention no names, but I want Handsome an’ Happy to hear what I’m
sayin’.” And after a sweeping glance at his mates, who, already, had begun to
disport themselves and jeer at the unfortunate pair, he wound up with: “Is that
straight?”

“You bet it is!” yelled the others in chorus; whereupon Sonora dropped into his
seat. In time order was restored and now the Girl, looking at Rance out of her
big, frightened, blue eyes, observed:

“Rance, last year you led off with an openin’ address, an’--”

“Yes, yes, go on Sheriff!” cried the boys, hailing her suggestion with delight.
Nevertheless, the Sheriff hesitated, seeing which, Trinidad contributed:

“Let ’er go, Jack!”

At length, fixing a look upon the Girl, Rance rose and said significantly:

“I pass.”

“Oh, then, Sonora,” suggested the Girl, covering up her embarrassment as best
she could, “won’t you make a speech?”

“Me--speak?” exploded Sonora; and again; “Me--speak? Oh, the devil!”

“Sh-sh!” came warningly from several of the boys. “Why, I didn’t mean that, o’
course,” apologised Sonora, colouring, and incidentally expectorating on Bucking
Billy’s boots. But to his infinite sorrow no protest worthy of the word was
forthcoming from the apparently insensible Bucking Billy. “Go on! Go on!” urged
the school. Sonora coughed behind his hand; then he began his address. “Gents, I
look on this place as something more ’n a place to sit around an’ spit on--the
stove. I claim that there’s culture in the air o’ Californay an’ we’re here to
buck up again it an’ hook on.”

“Hear! Hear! Hear!” voiced the men together, while their fists came down heavily
upon the improvised desks before them. “With these remarks,” concluded Sonora,
“I set.” And suiting the action to the word he plumped himself down heavily upon
the bench, but only to rise again quickly with a cry of pain and strike Trinidad
a fierce blow, who, he rightly suspected, was responsible for the pin that had
found a lodging-place in the seat of his trousers. At that not even the Girl’s
remonstrances prevented the boys, who had been silent as mice all the time that
the instrument of torture was being adjusted, from giving vent to roars of
laughter; and for a moment things in the school-room were decidedly boisterous.
“Sit down, boys, sit down!” ordered the Girl again and again; but it was some
moments before she could get the school under control. When, finally, the
skylarking had ceased, the Girl said in a voice which, despite its strange
weariness, was music to their ears:

“Once more we meet together. There’s ben a lot happened o’ late that has learned
me that p’r’aps I don’t know as much as I tho’t I did, an’ I can’t teach you
much more. But if you’re willin’ to take me for what I am--jest a woman who
wants things better, who wants everybody all they ought to be, why I’m willin’
to rise with you an’ help reach out--” She stopped abruptly, for Handsome was
waving his hand excitedly at her, and asked a trifle impatiently: “What is it,
Handsome?”

Handsome rose and hurriedly went over to her. “Whisky, teacher, whisky! I want
it so bad--”

The school rose to its feet as one man. “Teacher! Teacher!” came tumultuously
from all, their hands waving frantically in the air. And then without waiting
for permission to speak the cry went up: “Whisky! Whisky!”

“No, no whisky,” she denied them flatly. Gradually the commotion subsided, for
all knew that she meant what she said, at least for the moment. “An’ now jest a
few words more on the subject o’ not settin’ judgment on the errin’--a subject
near my heart.”

This remark of the Girl’s brought forth murmurs of wonder, and in the midst of
them the door was pushed slowly inward and The Sidney Duck, wearing the deuce of
spades which the Sheriff had pinned to his jacket when he banished him from
their presence for cheating at cards, stood on the threshold, looking
uncertainly about him. At once all eyes were focused upon him. “Git! Git!”
shouted the men, angrily. This was followed by a general movement towards him,
which so impressed The Sidney Duck that he turned on his heel and was fleeing
for his life when a cry from the Girl stopped him. “Boys, boys,” said the Girl
in a reproving voice, which silenced them almost instantly; then, beckoning to
Sid to approach, she went on in her most gentle tones: “I was jest gittin’ to
you, Sid, as I promised. You can stay.”

Looking like a whipped dog The Sidney Duck advanced warily towards her. Sonera’s
brow grew thunderous. “What, here among gentlemen?”

And that his protest met with instantaneous approval was shown by the way the
miners shifted uneasily in their seats and shouted threateningly:

“Git! Git!”

“Why, the fellow’s a--” began Trinidad, but got no further, for the Girl stopped
him by exclaiming:

“I know, I know, Trin--I’ve tho’t it all over!”

For the next few minutes the Girl stood strangely still and her face became very
grave. Never before had the men seen her in a mood like this, and they exchanged
wondering glances. Presently she said:

“Boys, of late a man in trouble has been on my mind--” She paused, her glance
having caught the peculiar light which her words had caused to appear in Rance’s
eyes, and lest he should misunderstand her meaning, she hastened to add: “Sid,
o’ course,--an’ I fell to thinkin’ o’ the Prodigal Son. He done better, didn’t
he?”

“But a card sharp,” objected Sonora from the depths of his big voice. “Yes,
that’s what!” interjected Trinidad, belligerently. The Girl’s eyebrows lifted
and a shade of resentment was in the answering voice:

“But s’pose there was a moment in his life when he was called upon to find a
extra ace--can’t we forgive ’im? He says he’s sorry--ain’t you, Sid?”

All the while the Girl had been speaking The Sidney Duck kept his eyes lowered
and was swallowing nervously. Now he raised them and, with a feeble attempt to
simulate penitence, he acknowledged that he had done wrong. Nevertheless, he
declared:

“But if I ’adn’t got caught things would ’a’ been different. Oh, yes, I’m
sorry.”

In an instant the Girl was at his side removing the deuce of spades from his
coat. “Sid, you git your chance,” she said with trembling lips. “Now go an’ sit
down.”

A broad smile was creeping over The Sidney Duck’s countenance as he moved
towards the others; but Happy took it upon himself to limit its spread. “Take
that!” he blazed, striking the man in the face. “And git out of here!”

“Happy, Happy!” cried the Girl. Her voice was so charged with reproach that The
Sidney Duck was allowed by the men to pass on without any further molestation.
Nevertheless, when he attempted to sit beside them, they moved as far away as
possible from him and compelled him to take a stool that stood apart from the
benches which held them together in friendly proximity. At this point Trinidad
inquired of the Girl whether she meant to infer that honesty was not the best
policy, and by way of illustration, he went on to say:

“S’posin’ my watch had no works an’ I was to sell it to the Sheriff for one
hundred dollars. Would you have much respect for me?”

For the briefest part of a second the Girl seemed to be reflecting. “I’d have
more respect for you than for the Sheriff,” she answered succinctly. “Hurrah!
Whoopee! Whoop!” yelled the men, who were delighted both with what she said as
well as her pert way of saying it. It was in the midst of these shouts that
Billy Jackrabbit and Wowkle, unobserved by the others, quietly stole into the
room and squatted themselves down under the blackboard. When the merriment had
subsided Rance rose and took the floor. His face was paler than usual, though
his voice was calm when presently he said:

“Well, bein’ Sheriff, I’m careful about my company--I’ll sit in the bar. Cheats
and road agents”--and here he paused meaningly and glanced from The Sidney Duck
to the Girl--“ar’n’t jest in my line. I walk in the open road with my head up
and my face to the sun, and whatever I’ve pulled up, you’ll remark I’ve always
played square and stood by the cyards.”

“I know, I know,” observed the Girl and fell wearily into her seat; the next
instant she went on more confidently: “An’ that’s the way to travel--in the
straight road. But if ever I don’t travel that road, or you--”

“You always will, you bet,” observed Nick with feeling. “You bet she will!”
shouted the others. “But if I don’t,” continued the Girl, insistently, “I hope
there’ll be someone to lead me back--back to the right road. ’Cause remember,
Rance, some of us are lucky enough to be born good, while others have to be
’lected.”

“That’s eloquence!” cried Sonora, moved almost to tears; while Rance took a step
forward as if about to make some reply; but the next instant, his head held no
longer erect and his face visibly twitching, he passed into the bar-room. A
silence reigned for a time, which was broken at last by the Girl announcing with
great solemnity:

“If anybody can sing ‘My Country ’Tis,’ Academy’s opened.”

At this request, really of a physical nature, and advanced in a spirit of true
modesty, all present, curiously enough, seemed to have lost their voices and
nudged one another in an endeavour to get the hymn started. Someone insisted
that Sonora should go ahead, but that worthy pupil objected giving as his
excuse, obviously a paltry one and trumped up for the occasion, that he did not
know the words. There was nothing to it, therefore, but that the Indians should
render the great American anthem. And so, standing stolidly facing the others,
their high-pitched, nasal voices presently began:

“_My country ’tis of thee,      Sweet land of liberty,      Of thee I sing._”

“Well, if that ain’t sarkism!” interjected Sonora between the lines of the hymn.
“_Land where our fathers died--_”

“You bet they died hard!” cut in Trinidad, rolling his eyes upward in a comical
imitation of the Indians. “_Land of the Pilgrim’s pride,      From every
mountain side      Let freedom ring._”

All the while the Indians were singing the last lines of the hymn the Girl’s
face was a study in reminiscent dreams, but when they had finished and were
leaving the room, she came back to earth, as it were, and clapped her hands, an
appreciation which brought forth from Wowkle a grateful “Huh!”

“I would like to read you a little verse from a book of poems,” presently went
on the teacher; and when the men had given her their attention, she read with
much feeling:

“‘_No star is ever lost we once have seen,       We always may be what we might
have been._’”

“Why, what’s the matter?” inquired Sonora, greatly moved at the sight of the
tears which, of a sudden, began to run down the teacher’s cheeks. “Why,
what’s--?” came simultaneously from the others, words failing them. “Nothin’,
nothin’, only it jest came over me that I’ll be leavin’ you soon,” stammered the
Girl. “How can I do it? How can I do it?” she wailed. Sonora gazed at her
unbelievingly. “Do what?” he said. “What did she say?” questioned Trinidad. Now
Sonora went over to her, and asked:

“What d’you say? Why, what’s the matter?”

Slowly the Girl raised her head and looked at him through half-closed lids, the
tears that still clung to them, blinding her almost. Plainly audible in the
silence of the room the seconds ticked away on the clock, and still she did not
speak; at last she murmured:

“Oh, it’s nothin’, nothin’, only I jest remembered I’ve promised to leave Cloudy
soon an’, p’r’aps, we might never be together again--you an’ me an’ The Polka.
Oh, it took me jest like that when I seen your dear, ol’ faces, your dear,
plucky, ol’ faces an’ realised that--” She could not go on, and buried her face
in her hands, her glistening blonde head shaking with her sobs. It was thus that
the Sheriff, entering a moment later, found her. Without a word he resumed his
seat in front of the fire. Sonora continued to stare blankly at her. He was too
dazed to speak, much less to think. He broke silence slowly. “What--you leavin’
us?”

“Leavin’ us?” inquired Happy, incredulously. “Careful, girl, careful,” warned
Nick, softly. The Girl hesitated a moment, and then went recklessly on:

“It’s bound to happen soon.”

Sonora looked more puzzled than ever; he rested his hand upon her desk as if to
support himself, and said:

“I don’t quite understand. Great Gilead! We done anythin’ to offend you?”

“Oh, no, no, no!” she hastened to assure him, at the same time letting her hand
rest upon his. But this explanation did not satisfy Sonora. Anxious to discover
what she had at heart he went on sounding:

“Tired of us? Ain’t we got style enough for you?”

The Girl did not answer; her breathing, swift and short, painfully intensified
the hush that had fallen on the room; at last, the boys becoming impatient began
to bombard her with questions. “Be you goin’ to show them Ridge boys we’ve
petered out an’ culture’s a dead dog here?” began Happy, rising. “Do you want
them to think Academy’s busted?” asked Handsome. “Ain’t we your boys no more?”
put in Trinidad, wistfully. “Ain’t I your boy?” asked Sonora, sentimentally.
“Why, what is it, Girl? Has anybody--tell me--perhaps--”

The Girl raised her head and dried her eyes; when she spoke one could have heard
a pin drop. “Oh, no, no, no,” she said with averted face, and added tremulously:
“There, we won’t say no more about it. Let’s forgit it. Only when I go away I
want to leave the key o’ my cabin with Old Sonora here, an’ I want you all to
come up sometimes, an’ to think o’ me as the girl who loved you all, an’
sometimes is wishin’ you well, an’ I want to think o’ little Nick here runnin’
my bar an’ not givin’ the boys too much whisky.” Her words died away in a sob
and her head fell forward, her hand, the while, resting upon Nick’s shoulder. At
last, Sonora saw what lay beneath her tears; the situation was all too clear to
him now. “Hold on!” he cried hoarsely. “There’s jest one reason for the Girl to
leave her home an’ friends--only one: There must be some fellow away from here
that she--that she likes better ’n she does any of us.” And turning once more
upon the Girl, he demanded excitedly: “Is that it? Speak!”

The Girl raised her tear-stained face and looked him in the eye. “Likes--” she
repeated with a world of meaning in her voice--“in a different way, yes.”

“Well, so help me!” ejaculated Happy, unhappily, while Sonora, with head bent
low, went over to his seat. The next moment the boys of the front rows had
joined those of the rear and were grouping themselves together to discuss the
situation. “Sure you ain’t makin’ a mistake?” Trinidad questioned suddenly. The
Girl came down from her seat on the platform and went over to them. “Mistake,”
she repeated dreamily. “Oh, no, no, no, boys, there’s no mistake about this. Oh,
Trin!” she burst out tearfully, and two soft arms crept gently about his neck.
“An’ Sonora--Ah, Sonora...!” She raised herself on her tiny toes and kissed him
on the left cheek. The next instant she was gone. XVII

Whatever may be said to the contrary, there are few more humiliating moments in
a man’s life than when he learns that some other person has supplanted him in
the affections of his adored one. And it was the Girl’s knowledge of this,
together with her desire to spare the feelings of her two old admirers,--for in
her nature there was ever that thoughtfulness of others which never permitted
her to do a mean thing to anyone,--that had caused her to flee so precipitously
from the room. But painful as was their humiliation as they stood in silence,
gazing with saddened faces at the door through which the Girl had gone out,
their cup of bitterness was not yet full. The next moment the Sheriff, his lips
curled inscrutably, said mockingly:

“Well, boys, the right man has come at last. Take your medicine, gentlemen.”

His words cut Sonora to the quick, and it was with difficulty that he braced
himself to hear the worst. “Who’s the man?” he inquired gruffly. The Sheriff’s
eyes fastened themselves upon him; at length with deadly coldness he drawled
out:

“Johnson’s the man.”

All the colour went out of Sonora’s face, while his lips ejaculated:

“Gol A’mighty!”

“You lie!” blazed Trinidad in the next breath, and made a quick movement towards
the Sheriff. But Rance was not to be denied. Seeing Nick advancing towards them
he called upon him to verify his words; but that individual merely looked first
at one and then the other and did not answer, which silence infuriated Sonora.
“Why, you tol’ me...?” he said with an angry look in his eye. “Tol’ you, Sonora?
Why he tol’ me the same thing,” protested Trinidad with an earnestness that, at
any other time, would have sent his listeners into fits of laughter. This was
too much for Sonora; he flew into a paroxysm of rage. “Well, for a first-class
liar...!”

“You bet!” corroborated Trinidad, relapsing, despite his anger, into his pet
phrase. For some minutes the dejected suitors continued in this strain, now
arguing and then condoling with one another, the boys, meanwhile, proceeding to
clear the school-room of the benches, casks and planks, lifting or rolling them
back into place as if they were made of paper. All of a sudden Sonora’s face
cleared perceptibly. Turning swiftly to the Sheriff, who sat tilted back in a
chair before the fire, he said with unexpected cheerfulness of voice:

“Why, Johnson’s dead. He got away, an’--”

“Yes, he got away,” remarked Rance, dully, shaking the ashes from his cigar,
which answer, together with the peculiar look which Sonora saw on the other’s
face, made him at once suspicious that something was being held back from them
which they had a right to know. It came about, therefore, that, with a hasty
movement towards the Sheriff, his eyes glaring, his voice husky, Sonora
demanded:

“Jack Rance, I call on you as Sheriff for Johnson! He was in your county.”

Instantly the cry was taken up by the others, but it was Trinidad who, shaking
his fist in Rance’s face, supplemented:

“You hustle up an’ run a bridle through your p’int o’ teeth or your boom for re-
election’s over, you lily-fingered gambler!”

But the Sheriff did not move a muscle, though after a moment he answered coolly:

“Oh, I don’t know as I give a damn...!” Which reply, to say the least, was
somewhat disconcerting to the men who had surrounded him and were eyeing him
threateningly. “No talk--we want Johnson,” insisted Trinidad, hotly. “We want
Johnson,” echoed the crowd in low, tense voices, their fists clenched. And still
Rance did not waver, but calmly puffing away at his long, black cigar he looked
blankly into space. Presently a voice outside calling, “Boys!” sounded
throughout the room and brought him back to actuality. He sat straight up in his
chair while Nick, shifting uneasily about on his feet, muttered:

“Why, that’s Ashby!”

“Oh, if--” began the Sheriff and stopped. The next instant the Wells Fargo
Agent, a cool, triumphant look on his face, stood framed in the doorway. With a
hasty movement towards him Rance asked tensely: “Did you get him?”

The answer came back, almost before the question was asked:

“Yes--we’ve got him.”

“Not Johnson?” demanded Sonora, truculently. “Yes, Johnson,” affirmed the Wells
Fargo Agent with a hard laugh, his eyes the while upon Handsome, who, unaided,
was lifting a heavy cask to a bench near by. “Not alive?” questioned Trinidad,
unwilling to trust his own ears. “You bet!” was Ashby’s sententious
confirmation, at which pandemonium broke loose, Nick alone appearing dejected
and morose-looking. For his love and devotion to the Girl were too genuine to
permit of his taking any part whatsoever in what he believed was opposed to her
happiness. On the other hand, Rance, as may be inferred, was inwardly rejoicing,
though when he perceived that Nick was eyeing him steadily he was careful to
lower his eyes lest the little barkeeper should see the triumph shining beneath
them. And, finally, unable to bear Nick’s scrutiny any longer, he explained with
a feeble attempt at self-defence:

“Well, I didn’t do it, Nick, I didn’t do it.” But a moment later, his face hard
and set, he added: “Now he be damned! There’s an end of Johnson!”

The words were hardly out of his mouth, however, than Johnson, his arms bound,
followed by the Deputy, strode into the room with the courage of one who has
long faced death, and stood before the men who glared at him with fire in their
eyes and murder in their hearts. “How do you do, Mr. Johnson. I think, Mr.
Johnson, five minutes will do for you.” Rance gave to the words a peculiar
accent and inflection, but this caused the prisoner to look even more composed
and calm than before; he returned crisply:

“I think so.”

“So this is the gentleman the Girl loves?” Sonora’s face wore a cruel grin as he
stood with arms folded leering at the prisoner. The biting humour of the thought
appealed to Rance, and he smiled grimly to himself. “That’s the gentleman”--he
was saying when a voice outside broke in upon his words with:

“Nick! Boys! Boys!”

“It’s the Girl!” cried Nick in dismay, at the same time rushing over to the door
to intercept her; while Ashby, desirous of preventing any communication between
the Girl and the prisoner took up a position between them--unnecessary
precautions, since the Girl had no intention of re-entering the room, but wished
merely to say that she had forgotten that it was recess and that the boys might
have one drink. At the sound of her voice Johnson paled. He listened to her
retreating steps, then turning towards Nick he asked him to lock the door. “Why,
the devil...!” objected the Sheriff, angrily. “Please,” urged the prisoner with
such a look of entreaty in his eyes that Nick could not find it in his heart to
deny him, and went forthwith to the door and locked it. “Why, you--” began
Sonora with a hurried movement towards the prisoner. “You keep out of this,
Sonora,” enjoined the Sheriff, coming forward to take a hand in the proceedings.
“I handle the rope--pick the tree....”

“Then hurry ...” said Sonora, impatiently, while Trinidad interposed with his
usual, “You bet!”

“One moment,” said the prisoner as the miners started to go out; and, strange to
relate, the Sheriff ordered the men to halt. Turning once more to the prisoner,
he said:

“Be quick--what is it?”

“It is true,” began the unfortunate road agent in an even, unemotional voice,
“that I love the Girl.”

At these words Rance’s arms flew up threateningly, while a mocking smile sprang
to his lips. “Well, you won’t in a minute,” he reminded him grimly. The taunt
brought no change of expression to the prisoner’s face or change of tone in his
voice as he went on to say that he did not care what they did to him; that he
was prepared for anything; and that every man who travelled the path that he did
faced death every day for a drink of water or ten minutes’ sleep, concluding
calmly:

“You’ve got me and I wouldn’t care but for the Girl.”

“You’ve got just three minutes!” A shade almost of contempt was in Sonora’s
exclamation. “Yes...!” blazed Trinidad. There was an impressive silence; then in
a voice that trembled strangely between pride and humility Johnson continued:

“I don’t want her to know my end. Why, that would be an awful thought for her to
go on with all her life--that I died out there--near at hand. Why, boys, she
couldn’t stay here after that--she couldn’t....”

“That’s understood,” replied Rance, succinctly. “I’d like her to think,” went on
the prisoner, with difficulty choking back the tears, “that I got away clear and
went East and changed my way of living. So you just drag me a good ways from
here before you--” He stopped abruptly and began to swallow nervously. When he
spoke again it was with a perceptible change of manner. “And when I don’t write
and she never hears why she will say, ‘he’s forgotten me,’ and that will be
about enough for her to remember, because she loved me before she knew what I
was--and you can’t change love in a minute.”

All the while Johnson had been speaking the Sheriff’s jealousy had been growing
steadily until, finally, turning upon the other with a succession of oaths he
struck him a fierce blow in the face. “I don’t blame you,” returned the prisoner
without a trace of malice in his voice. “Strike me again--strike me--one death
is not enough for me. Damn me--I wish you could.... Oh, why couldn’t I have let
her pass! I’m sorry I came her way--but it’s too late now, it’s too late....”

Rance, not in the least affected by what the prisoner had been saying, asked if
that was his last word. Johnson nodded. Trinidad, simultaneously with his nod,
snapped his finger, indicating that the prisoner’s time was up. “Dep!” called
the Sheriff, sharply. The Deputy came forward and took his prisoner in charge.
“Good-bye, sir!” said Nick, who was visibly affected. “Good-bye!” returned the
prisoner, briefly. “You tell the Girl--no, come to think of it, Nick, don’t say
anything....”

“Come on, you!” ordered Happy. Whereupon with a shout and an imprecation the men
removed en masse to the door. “Boys,” intervened Nick at this juncture, rushing
into their midst, “when Alliger was hanged Rance let ’im see his sweetheart. I
think, considerin’ as how she ain’t goin’ to see no more o’ Mr. Johnson here,
an’ knowin’ the Girl’s feelin’s--well, I think she ought to have a chance to--”

Nick was not allowed to finish, for instantly the men were up in arms raising a
most vigorous objection to his proposal; but, notwithstanding, Nick, evidently
bent upon calling the Girl, started for the door. “No,” objected Rance,
obstinately. The road agent took a step forward and, turning upon the Sheriff
with a desperately hopeless expression upon his face, he said:

“Jack Rance, there were two of us--I’ve had my chance. Inside of ten minutes
I’ll be dead and it will be all your way. Couldn’t you let me--”

He paused, and ended almost piteously with: “Oh, I thought I’d have the courage
not to ask, but, Oh, couldn’t you let me--couldn’t you--”

Once more Nick intervened by shrewdly prevaricating:

“Here’s the Girl, boys!”

But this ruse of Nick’s met with no greater success than his previous efforts,
for Rance, putting his foot down heavily upon the stove, voiced a vigorous
protest. “All right,” said the prisoner, resignedly. Nevertheless, his face
reflected his disappointment. Turning now to Nick he thanked him for his efforts
in his behalf. “You must excuse Rance,” remarked the little barkeeper with a
significant look at the Sheriff, “for bein’ so small a man as to deny the usual
cour-tesies, but he ain’t quite himself.”

Weary of their cavilling, for he believed that in the end the Sheriff would
carry his point, and determined to go before his courage failed him, Johnson
made a movement towards the door. Speaking bravely, though his voice trembled,
he said:

“Come, boys--come.”

But, odd as it may seem, Nick’s words had taken root. “Wait a minute,” Rance
temporised. The prisoner halted. “I don’t know that I’m so small a man as to
deny the usual courtesies, since you put it that way,” continued Rance. “I
always have extended them. But we’ll hear what you have to say--that’s our
protection. And it might interest some of us to hear what the Girl will have to
say to you, Mr. Johnson--after a week in her cabin there may be more to know
than--”

Fire leapt to Johnson’s eyes; he cried hoarsely--

“Stop!”

“Rance, you don’t know what you’re sayin’,” resented Nick, casting hard looks at
him; while Sonora put a heavy hand upon the Sheriff and threatened him with:

“Now, Rance, you stop that!”

“We’ll hear every word he has to say,” insisted the Sheriff, doggedly. “You
bet!” affirmed Trinidad. “Nick! Nick!” called the Girl once more, and while the
little barkeeper went over to admit her the Wells Fargo Agent took his leave,
calling back after him:

“Well, boys, you’ve got him safe--I can’t wait--I’m off!”

“Dep, untie the prisoner! Boys, circle round the bar! Trin, put a man at that
door! And Sonora, put a couple of men at those windows!” And so swift were the
men in carrying out his instructions, that even as he spoke, everyone was at his
post, the Sheriff himself and Sonora remaining unseen but on guard at the doors,
while the prisoner, edging up close to the door, was not in evidence when the
Girl entered. “You can think of something to tell her--lie to her,” had been the
Sheriff’s parting suggestion. “I’ll let her think I risked coming back to see
her again,” had replied the prisoner, his throat trembling. “She won’t know it’s
for the last time--we’ll be there,” had come warningly from the Sheriff as he
pointed to the door that led to the bar-room. *       *       *       *       *

“Why, what have you got the door barred for?” asked the Girl as she came into
the room; and then without waiting for an answer: “Why, where are the boys?”

“Well, you see, the boys--the boys has--has--” began Nick confusedly and
stopped. “The boys--” There was a question in the Girl’s voice. “Has gone.”

“Gone where?”

“Why, to the Palmetter,” came out feebly from Nick; and then with a sudden
change of manner, he added: “Oh, say, Girl, I likes you!” And here he laid his
hand affectionately upon her shoulder. “You’ve been my religion--the bar an’
you. Why, you don’t never want to leave us--why, I’d drop dead for you.”

“Nick, you’re very nice to--” began the Girl, gratefully, and stopped, for at
that instant a gentle tap came upon the door. Turning swiftly, she saw Johnson
coming towards her. “Girl!” he cried in an agony of joy, and held out his arms
to receive her. “You? You?” she admonished softly. “Don’t say a word,” he
whispered hurriedly. “You shouldn’t have come back,” she said with knitted brow.
“I had to--to say good-bye once more.” And his voice was so filled with
tenderness that she readily forgave him for the indiscretion. “It’s all right,
it’s all right,” murmured Nick, his hand still on the door, which he had taken
the precaution to bolt after the Girl had passed through it. There was a
moment’s silence; then, going over to the windows, the Girl pulled down the
curtains. “The boys are good for quite a little bit,” she said as she came back.
“Don’t git nervous--I’ll give you warnin’....”

Nick, unwilling to witness the heartrending scene which he foresaw would follow,
noiselessly withdrew into the bar-room, leaving the prisoner alone with the
Girl. “Don’t be afraid, my Girl,” said Johnson, softly. But the Girl’s one
thought, after her first gladness, was of his safety:

“But you can’t git away now without bein’ seen?”

“Yes, there’s another way out of Cloudy,--and I’m going to take it.”

The grimness of his meaning was lost on the Girl, who answered urgently:

“Then go--go! Don’t wait, go now!”

Johnson smiled a sad little smile:

“But remember that I’m sorry for the past, and--and don’t forget me,” he said,
with an odd break in his voice,--so odd that it roused the Girl into startled
wonderment. “Forget you? Why, Dick...!”

“I mean, till we meet again,” he reassured her hastily. The Girl heaved a
troubled sigh. Her fears for him were still on edge. Then, with a nervous start,
she asked:

“Did he call?”

“No. He’ll--he’ll warn me,” Johnson told her unsteadily. “Oh, every day that
dawns I’ll wait for a message from you. I’ll feel you wanting me. Every night
I’ll say to-morrow, and every to-morrow I’ll say to-day.... Oh, you’ve changed
the whole world for me! I can’t let you go, but I must, Dick, I must....” And
bursting into tears, she buried her face on his shoulder, repeating piteously,
between shaking sobs, “Oh, I’m so afraid,--I’m so afraid!”

He held her close, the strength of his arms around her reassuring her silently.
“Why, you mustn’t be afraid,” he said in tones that were almost steady. “In a
few minutes I’ll be quite free, and then--”

“An’ you’ll make a little home for me when you’re free--soon--will you?” asked
the Girl, with a wan smile dawning on her trembling lips. She was drying her
eyes and did not see how the light died out of the man’s face, as he gazed down
at her hungrily, hopelessly. This time he could not trust himself to speak, but
merely nodded “yes.”

“A strange feelin’ has come over me,” went on the Girl, brokenly, “a feelin’ to
hold you--to cling to you--not to let you go. Somethin’ in my heart keeps
sayin’, ‘Don’t let him go!’”

Johnson felt his knees sagging oddly beneath him. The Girl’s sure instinct of
danger, the piteousness of their case, were making a coward of him. He tore
himself from her in a panic desire to go while he still had the manhood to play
his part to the end; then suddenly broke down completely, and with his face
buried in his hands, sobbed aloud. “Why, Girl,” he managed to say, brokenly,
“it’s been worth--the whole of life just--to know you. You’ve brought me nearer
Heaven,--you, to love a man like me!”

“Don’t say that, Oh, don’t say that,” she hastened to say with a great
tenderness in her voice. “S’pose you was only a road agent an’ I was a saloon
keeper. We both came out o’ nothin’ an’ we met, but through lovin’ we’re goin’
to reach things now--that’s us. We had to be lifted up like this to be saved.”

Johnson tried to speak, but the words would not come. It was, therefore, with a
feeling of relief that, presently, he heard Nick at the door, saying, “It’s all
clear now.”

Johnson wheeled round, but Nick had flown. Turning once more to the Girl, he
said with trembling lips:

“Good-bye!”

The Girl’s face wore a puzzled look, and she told him that he acted as if they
were never going to meet again. “An’ we are, we are, ain’t we?” she questioned
eagerly. A faint little smile hovered about the corners of the road agent’s
mouth when presently he answered:

“Why, surely we are....”

His words cleared her face instantly. “I want you to think o’ me here jest
waitin’,” she said. “You was the first--there’ll never be anyone but you. Why,
you’re the man I’d want sittin’ across the table if there was a little kid like
I was playin’ under it. I can’t say no more ’n that. Only you--you will--you
must get through safe an’ come back--an’ well, think o’ me here jest waitin’,
jest waitin’, waitin’....”

At these words a tightness gripped the man’s throat, and in the silence that
followed the tears ran steadily down his cheeks. “Oh, Girl, Girl,” at last he
said, “that first night I went to your cabin I saw you kneeling, praying. Say
that in your heart again for me now. Perhaps I believe it--perhaps I don’t.... I
hope I do--I want to--but say it, say it, Girl, just for the luck of it--say
it....”

Quickly the Girl crossed herself, and while she sent a silent prayer to Heaven
Johnson knelt at her knees, his head bowed low. “God bless you,” he murmured
when the prayer was finished and arose to his feet; then bending over her hand
he touched it softly with his lips. “Good-bye!” he said chokingly and started
for the door. “Good-bye!” came slowly in return, her face no less moist than
his. Presently she murmured like one in a dream: “Dick, Dick!”

The man hastened his steps and did not turn. At the door, however, he burst out
in an agony of despair: “Girl! Girl...!”

But when the Girl looked up he had reached the open. She listened a moment to
the retreating steps, then raising her tear-stained face above her arms, she
sobbed out: “He’s gone--he’s gone--he’s gone...!” She started in pursuit of him,
but half-way across the room she fell into Nick’s arms, crying out:

“He’s gone, he’s gone, he’s gone! Dick! Dick! Dick...!”

Terribly affected at the sight of the Girl’s sorrow, the little barkeeper did
his best to soothe her, now patting her little blonde head as it rested upon his
arm, now murmuring words of loving tenderness. Suddenly she raised her head, and
then it was that she saw for the first time the men standing huddled together
near the door. In a flash the truth of the situation dawned upon her. With a
look of indescribable horror upon her face she turned upon Nick, turned upon
them all with:

“You knew, Nick--you all knew you had ’im! You knew you had ’im an’ you’re goin’
to kill ’im! But you shan’t--no, you shan’t kill ’im--you shan’t--you
shan’t...!”

Once more she started in pursuit of her lover, but only to fall with her face
against the door, sobbing as if her heart would break. Outside there was nothing
in the enchanting scene to suggest finality. Nature never was more prodigal of
her magic beauties. The sun still shone on the winter whiteness of the majestic
mountains; the great arch of sky was still an azure blue; the wild things still
roamed the great forest at will. Life indeed was very beautiful. Minutes passed
and still the Girl wept. A wonderful thing happened then--and as suddenly as it
was characteristic of these impulsive and tender-hearted men. In thinking over
their action long afterwards the Girl recalled how for an instant she could
believe neither her ears nor her eyes. With Sonora it was credible, at least;
but with Rance--it seemed wonderful to her even when observed through the vista
of many years. And yet, men like Rance more often than not exhibit to the world
the worst side of their nature. It is only when some cataclysm of feeling bursts
that their inner soul is disclosed and joyously viewed by eyes which have long
been accustomed to judging them solely from the icy and impenetrable reserve
which they invariably wear. And so it came about that Sonora--first of the two--
went over to her and laid an affectionate hand upon her shoulder. “Why, Girl,”
he said, all the kindliness of his gentle nature flooding his eyes, “the boys
an’ me ain’t perhaps realised jest what Johnson stood for you, an’ hearin’ what
you said, an’ seein’ you prayin’ over the cuss--”

Rance’s face lit up scornfully. “The cuss?” he cut in, objecting to a term which
is not infrequently used affectionately. “Yes, the cuss,” repeated Sonora, all
the vindictiveness gone from his heart now. “I got an idee maybe God’s back of
this ’ere game.”

The Girl’s heart was beating fast; she was hoping against hope when, a moment
later, she asked:

“You’re not goin’ to pull the rope on ’im?”

“You mean I set him free,” came from Rance, his tone softer, gentler than anyone
had heard it in some time. “You set ’im free?” repeated the Girl, timidly, and
not daring to meet his gaze. “I let him go,” announced the Sheriff in spite of
himself. “You let ’im go?” questioned the Girl, still in a daze. “That’s our
verdict, an’ we’re prepared to back it up,” declared Sonora with a smile on his
weathered face, though the tears streamed down his cheeks. The Girl’s face
illumined with a great joy. She did not stop now to dissipate the tears which
she saw rolling down Sonora’s face, as was her wont when any of the boys were
grieved or distressed, but fairly flew out of the cabin, calling half-
frantically, half-ecstatically:

“Dick! Dick! You’re free! You’re free! You’re free...!”

The minutes passed and still the miners did not move. They stood with an air of
solemnity gazing silently at one another. Only too well did they realise what
was happening to them. They were inconsolable. Presently, Sonora, all in a heap
on a bench, took out some tobacco and began to chew it as fast as his mouth
would let him; Happy, going over to the teacher’s desk, picked up the bunch of
berries which he had presented her at the opening of the school session and
began to fondle them; while Trinidad, too overcome to speak, stood leaning
against the door, gazing sadly in the direction that the Girl had taken. As for
Rance, after calling to Nick to bring him a drink, he quietly brought out a pack
of cards from his pocket and, seemingly, became absorbed in a game of solitaire.
A little while later, his eyes still red from weeping, Nick remarked:

“The Polka won’t never be the same, boys--the Girl’s gone.”

XVIII

The soft and velvety blackness of night was giving place to a pearly grey, and
the feathery streaks of a trembling dawn were shooting heavenward when a man,
whose head had been pillowed on a Mexican saddle, rose from the ground in front
of a tepee, made of blankets on crossed sticks, and seated himself on an old
tree-stump where he proceeded to light a cigarette. In the little tepee,
sheltered by an overhanging rock, the Girl was still sleeping; and the man,
sitting opposite the mound of earth and rock on which it was built, was Johnson.
A week had passed since the lovers had left Cloudy Mountain, and each day, at
the moment when the sun burst above the snow-capped mountains, found them up and
riding slowly eastward. No attempt whatever was made at haste, but, instead, now
climbing easily to the top of the passes, now descending into the valleys, they
rode slowly on, ever loathe to leave behind them the great forests and high
mountains. Noon of each day found them always resting in some glen where the sun
made golden lace-work of the branches over their heads; while at the approach of
night when the great orb was no longer to be seen through the tree-tops and
twilight was fast settling upon the woods, they would halt near a pool of a
dancing brook where, with the relish of fatigue, they would partake of their
rations; and then, when the silences came on, Johnson would proceed to put up
with loving skill the Girl’s rude quarters and, stretching himself out on a
gentle slope, covered with pine needles matted close together, the man and the
Girl would go to sleep listening to the music of the stream as it gurgled and
dashed along, foaming and leaping, over the rocks and beneath the little patches
of snow forgotten by the sun. And to these two, whether in the depths of the
vast forest or, as now, at the edge of the merciless desert, stretching away
like a world without end, their environment seemed nothing less than a paradise.
There were moments, however, in the long days, which could be devoted to
reflection; and often Johnson pondered over the strange fate that had brought
him under the influence--an influence which held him now and which he earnestly
prayed would continue to hold him--and into close relationship with a character
so different from his own. A contemplation of his past life was wholly
unnecessary, for the realisation had come to him that it was her personality
alone that had awakened his dormant sense of what was right and what was wrong,
and changed the course of his life. That his future was full of possibilities,
evil as well as good, he was only too well aware; nevertheless, his faith in
himself was that of a strong man whose powers of resistance, in this case, would
be immeasurably strengthened by constant association with a stronger character.
It was while he was in the midst of these thoughts that the Girl, without
letting him see her, quietly drew the blankets of the tepee a little to one side
and peered out at him. She, too, had not been without her moments of meditation.
Not that she regretted for an instant that she had committed herself to him
irrevocably but, rather, because she feared lest he should find it difficult to
detach himself, soul and body, from the adventurous life he had been leading.
Such painful communings, however, were rare and quickly dismissed as unworthy of
her; and now as she looked at him with faith and joy in her eyes, it seemed to
her that never before had she seen him appear so resolute and strong, and she
rejoiced that he belonged to her. At the thought a blush spread over her
features, and it was not until she had drawn the blankets back into their place
that she called from behind them:

“Are you awake, Dick?”

At the sound of her voice the man quickly arose and, going over to the tepee, he
parted the blankets and held them open. And even as she passed out the greyness
of dawn was replaced by silver, and silver by pink tints which lighted up the
pale green of the sage brush, the dwarf shrubs and clumps of Buffalo grass
around them as well as the darker green of the pines and hemlocks of the
foothills in the near distance. “Another day, Girl,” he said softly. “See, the
dawn is breaking!”

For some moments they stood side by side in silence, the man thinking of the
future, the woman serenely happy and lost in admiration of the calm beauty of
the scene which, in one direction, at least, differed greatly from anything that
she had ever beheld. Every night previous to the one just passed they had
encamped in the great forests; but now they looked upon a vast expanse of level
plain which, to the north and east, stretched trackless and unbroken by mountain
or ravine to an infinitude--the boundless prairies soon to be mellowed and
turned to a golden brown by the shafts of a burning sun already just below the
edge of an horizon aglow with opaline tints. The Girl had ever been a lover of
nature. All her life the mystery and silences of the high mountains had appealed
to her soul; but never until now had she realised the marvellous beauty and
glory of the great plains. And yet, though her eyes shone with the wonder of it
all, there was an unmistakably sad and reminiscent note in the voice that
presently murmured:

“Another day.”

After a while, and as if under the spell of some unseen power, she slowly turned
and faced the west where she gazed long and earnestly at the panorama of the
snow-capped peaks, rising range after range, all tipped with dazzling light.
“Oh, Dick, look back!” she cried in distress. “The foothills are growin’
fainter.” She paused, but suddenly with a far-off look in her eyes she went on:
“Every dawn--every dawn they’ll be farther away. Some night when I’m goin’ to
sleep I’ll turn an’ they won’t be there--red an’ shinin’.” Again she paused as
if almost overwhelmed with emotion, saying at length with a deep sigh: “Oh, that
was indeed the promised land!”

Johnson was greatly moved. It was some time before he found his voice. At length
he chided her softly:

“We must always look ahead, Girl--not backwards. The promised land is always
ahead.”

It was perhaps strange that the Girl failed to see the new light--the light that
reflected his desire for a cleaner life and an honoured place in another
community with her ever at his side--the hope and faith in his eyes as he spoke;
but still in that sad, reminiscent mood, with her eyes fixed on the dim
distances, she failed to see it, though she replied in a voice of resignation:

“Always ahead--yes, it must be.” And then again with tears in her eyes: “But,
Dick, all the people there in Cloudy, how far off they seem now--like shadows
movin’ in a dream--like shadows I’ve dreamt of. Only a few days ago I clasped
their hands--I seen their faces--their dear faces--I--” She broke off; then
while the tears streamed down her cheeks: “An’ now they’re fadin’--in this
little while I’ve lost ’em--lost ’em.”

“But through you all my old life has faded away.... I have lost that....” And so
saying he stretched out his arms towards her; but very gently she waved him back
with a murmured:

“Not yet!”

For a little while longer her gaze remained on the mountains in the west. The
mist was still over her eyes when she turned again and saw that the sun was
clearing the horizon in opulent splendour. “See,” she cried with a quick
transition of mood, “the sun has risen in the East--far away--fair an’ clear!”

Again Johnson held out his arms to her. “A new day--a new life--trust me, Girl.”

In silence she slipped one hand into his; then she bowed her head and repeated
solemnly:

“Yes--a new life.”

Suddenly she drew a little away from him and faced the west again. Clinging
tightly now to him with one hand, and the other raised high above her head, she
cried in a voice that was fraught with such passionate longing that the man felt
himself stirred to the very depths of his emotions:

“Oh, my mountains, I’m leavin’ you! Oh, my California--my lovely West--my
Sierras, I’m leavin’ you!” She ended with a sob; but the next moment throwing
herself into Johnson’s arms she snuggled there, murmuring lovingly: “Oh, my
home!”

A little while later, happy in their love and fearlessly eager to meet the
trials of the days to come in a new country, they had mounted their mustangs and
were riding eastward. *       *       *       *       *

ZANE GREY’S NOVELS

May be had wherever books are sold. Ask for Grosset & Dunlap’s list

_THE LIGHT OF WESTERN STARS_

A New York society girl buys a ranch which becomes the center of frontier
warfare. Her loyal superintendent rescues her when she is captured by bandits. A
surprising climax brings the story to a delightful close. _THE RAINBOW TRAIL_

The story of a young clergyman who becomes a wanderer in the great western
uplands--until at last love and faith awake. _DESERT GOLD_

The story describes the recent uprising along the border, and ends with the
finding of the gold which two prospectors had willed to the girl who is the
story’s heroine. _RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE_

A picturesque romance of Utah of some forty years ago when Mormon authority
ruled. The prosecution of Jane Withersteen is the theme of the story. _THE LAST
OF THE PLAINSMEN_

This is the record of a trip which the author took with Buffalo Jones, known as
the preserver of the American bison, across the Arizona desert and of a hunt in
“that wonderful country of deep cañons and giant pines.”

_THE HERITAGE OF THE DESERT_

A lovely girl, who has been reared among Mormons, learns to love a young New
Englander. The Mormon religion, however, demands that the girl shall become the
second wife of one of the Mormons--Well, that’s the problem of this great story.
_THE SHORT STOP_

The young hero, tiring of his factory grind, starts out to win fame and fortune
as a professional ball player. His hard knocks at the start are followed by such
success as clean sportsmanship, courage and honesty ought to win. _BETTY ZANE_

This story tells of the bravery and heroism of Betty, the beautiful young sister
of old Colonel Zane, one of the bravest pioneers. _THE LONE STAR RANGER_

After killing a man in self defense, Buck Duane becomes an outlaw along the
Texas border. In a camp on the Mexican side of the river, he finds a young girl
held prisoner, and in attempting to rescue her, brings down upon himself the
wrath of her captors and henceforth is hunted on one side by honest men, on the
other by outlaws. _THE BORDER LEGION_

Joan Randle, in a spirit of anger, sent Jim Cleve out to a lawless Western
mining camp, to prove his mettle. Then realizing that she loved him--she
followed him out. On her way, she is captured by a bandit band, and trouble
begins when she shoots Kells, the leader--and nurses him to health again. Here
enters another romance--when Joan, disguised as an outlaw, observes Jim, in the
throes of dissipation. A gold strike, a thrilling robbery--gambling and gun play
carry you along breathlessly. _THE LAST OF THE GREAT SCOUTS_,

By Helen Cody Wetmore and Zane Grey

The life story of Colonel William F. Cody, “Buffalo Bill,” as told by his sister
and Zane Grey. It begins with his boyhood in Iowa and his first encounter with
an Indian. We see “Bill” as a pony express rider, then near Fort Sumter as Chief
of the Scouts, and later engaged in the most dangerous Indian campaigns. There
is also a very interesting account of the travels of “The Wild West” Show. No
character in public life makes a stronger appeal to the imagination of America
than “Buffalo Bill,” whose daring and bravery made him famous. Grosset & Dunlap,
Publishers, New York

*       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELS OF WINSTON CHURCHILL

_THE INSIDE OF THE CUP._ Illustrated by Howard Giles. The Reverend John Hodder
is called to a fashionable church in a middle-western city. He knows little of
modern problems and in his theology is as orthodox as the rich men who control
his church could desire. But the facts of modern life are thrust upon him; an
awakening follows and in the end he works out a solution. _A FAR COUNTRY._
Illustrated by Herman Pfeifer. This novel is concerned with big problems of the
day. As _The Inside of the Cup_ gets down to the essentials in its discussion of
religion, so _A Far Country_ deals in a story that is intense and dramatic, with
other vital issues confronting the twentieth century. _A MODERN CHRONICLE._
Illustrated by J. H. Gardner Soper. This, Mr. Churchill’s first great
presentation of the Eternal Feminine, is throughout a profound study of a
fascinating young American woman. It is frankly a modern love story. _MR.
CREWE’S CAREER._ Illus. by A. I. Keller and Kinneys. A New England state is
under the political domination of a railway and Mr. Crewe, a millionaire, seizes
a moment when the cause of the people is being espoused by an ardent young
attorney, to further his own interest in a political way. The daughter of the
railway president plays no small part in the situation. _THE CROSSING._
Illustrated by S. Adamson and L. Bay. Describing the battle of Fort Moultrie,
the blazing of the Kentucky wilderness, the expedition of Clark and his handful
of followers in Illinois, the beginning of civilization along the Ohio and
Mississippi, and the treasonable schemes against Washington. _CONISTON._
Illustrated by Florence Scovel Shinn. A deft blending of love and politics. A
New Englander is the hero, a crude man who rose to political prominence by his
own powers, and then surrendered all for the love of a woman. _THE CELEBRITY._
An episode. An inimitable bit of comedy describing an interchange of
personalities between a celebrated author and a bicycle salesman. It is the
purest, keenest fun--and is American to the core. _THE CRISIS._ Illustrated with
scenes from the Photo-Play. A book that presents the great crisis in our
national life with splendid power and with a sympathy, a sincerity, and a
patriotism that are inspiring. _RICHARD CARVEL._ Illustrated by Malcolm Frazer.
An historical novel which gives a real and vivid picture of Colonial times, and
is good, clean, spirited reading in all its phases and interesting throughout.
Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York